LUCKNOW/DEHRADUN: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said all the pending issues with   would be resolved at the earliest. The announcement came after Uttarakhand CM   called on Yogi at the latter’s 5 Kalidas Marg residence here on Monday. The two CMs discussed many issues, including the long-pending matter of asset distribution between the two states.

 As a first step in this direction, an agreement was reached that chief secretaries of both the states will meet soon to take necessary steps. 
 
 Both the leaders mutually decided to look for a time-bound solution to matters pending for the past 16 years. The two agreed that a complete list of pending matters be prepared and taken up by the chief secretaries of both states. Assets of irrigation department, transfer of land in Haridwar Kumbh region, pending bills of irrigation department and transfer of Kichha bus station were among the key issues discussed in the meeting.
 
 “It was a very positive and fruitful meeting. We agreed upon working on these matters and solving them in a time-bound manner,” Rawat said after the meeting.
 
 In the meeting, the two CMs praised the initiatives taken by each other since taking charge. “We have no space for corruption in Uttarakhand. The BJP government has adopted a zero tolerance policy against corruption,” said Rawat. The CM claimed that the support of UP and the Centre would definitely take Uttarakhand on the path of progress.
 
 In the meeting, the two CMs also shared their views on promoting tourism, conservation of forest and education department. “We are committed to our cause of working for the people of Uttarakhand and development of the state. This is just the start of things. Soon people will witness major positive changes in the Himalayan state,” Rawat said.
 
 Since Uttarakhand was carved out of Uttar Pradesh in November 2000, there are several issues of ownership rights, handing over of properties and clearing of dues which have been lying in abeyance.
 
 With the BJP coming to power in both the states, hopes have risen of the excruciatingly slow process of transfer of assets being resolved soon. One of the first steps in the direction was recently taken with the Yogi government giving back control of 33 minor canals which were under the administration of UP irrigation department. The canals were formally handed over to Uttarakhand at a meeting of officials from both the states held at Haridwar last month. 
 
