CHANDIGARH: District Consumer Disputes Redressal   has directed   to pay the insured declared value of Rs 7 lakh, along with annual interest of 9%, and Rs 30,000 as compensation for not settling “genuine“ claim of a   resident.

 Rampal, a resident of Mauli village, Panchkula stated in his complaint that he got his Tata truck insured with   under the goods carrying vehicle package policy. The insured vehicle got stolen from Mauli village, Panchkula on the midnight of January 19, 2014.
 
 The theft was immediate ly reported to police on January 20, 2014 and FIR was registered on January 31, 2014 by Mauli police post. SBI was also informed about the theft.On May 16, 2015 report in respect of insured stolen vehicle was issued.
 
 All necessary documents were submitted to the insurance company, following which the company deman which the company demanded some more documents and clarification on November 6, 2015. It was pleaded that despite receiving all required documents and information, even after passage of one year, the claim was not settled.
 
 In their written reply , the insurance company , however stated that the vehicle in question was a commercial goods carrying vehicle and was required to process the fitness certificate, permit, road tax receipt, but the said documents, in spite of regular following ups, request and reminders was not supplied to them for processing the claim.
 
 It was submitted by the company that the complainant had failed to give justification as to how the date of theft on the FIR had been mentioned as January 9, 2014 and the information to the policy authority has been given for the first time on January 31, 2014 after a delay of more than 21days, which amounts to breach of terms and conditions of the policy under which the intimation of theft is to be given immediately without any delay and demur to the company.
 
 The forum held that, “After going through the contents of the FIR, it is quite clear that the theft of the vehicle in question occurred during the midnight of January 19, 2014 and inadvertently the date in FIR has been recorded as January 9, 2014.“
 
 The company directed to pay the insured declared value of Rs 7 lakh of the insured vehicle along with interest of 9% per annum from 21.4.2014, till realization for deficiency in service and unfair trade practice. They were further asked to pay litigation expenses to the tune of Rs 10,000.
 
