PUDUCHERRY: The CB-CID sleuths arrested three auto drivers on charges of kidnapping   and forcing them into prostitution in the Union territory of  . The investigation agency revealed the identity of the arrested persons only after the girls identified them at a parade scheduled shortly.

 A CB-CID team produced the three auto drivers, two hailing from Puducherry and one from Villupuram district, before a special court that remanded them to judicial custody on Monday. “We decided not to reveal the names of the accused people until identification parade was conducted,” said superintendent of police (CB-CID) B Arumugham.
 
 The agency has launched efforts to trace five more people involved in the crime. “We suspect the involvement of four or five others mostly auto drivers from Puducherry and Tamil Nadu. We will be in a position to arrest all those involved in the crime once we nab these four or five people,” said Arumugham.
 
 Puducherry police in June busted a child prostitution racket and rescued four girls all aged between 15 and 17 years and the one-year-old baby of one of the rescued girls. Police suspected the involvement of a gang of more than 15 people comprising mostly auto drivers. Of the four girls rescued, two hail from Puducherry, one each from   and Cuddalore district. All the four girls were runaway children. Three of them were orphans.
 
 One of the girls from Puducherry had eloped with her lover but was separaetd from him after giving birth to a baby girl. She married another man but left her second husband too after her mother-in-law aborted her fetus by offering her milk mixed with abortion pills. She then befriended another man reportedly a member of the prostitution gang.
 
 The issue came to light when the man accommodated the four girls in his relative’s house at Vambakeerapalayam. Local residents on spotting minor girls staying at a house under suspicious circumstances in their locality alerted the Odiansalai police station. A police team rescued them with the help of the child welfare committee.
 
 Three girls appeared before the judicial magistrate and recorded their statements on July 20. They were sent to government-approved children homes. One girl has been undergoing psychiatric treatment at a hospital.
 
 The modus operandi of the gang was to target runaway girls and entice them promising money and a lavish life later forcing them into prostitution. The gang members mostly auto drivers spot minor girls loitering at the bus stand and offer them a free ride to the beach where other members of the gang takeover. The gang initially offer them food and accommodation. They used guesthouses in Puducherry and Cuddalore for their criminal activities.
 
