MUMBAI: Egyptian  , who has lost 242kg in the two months since she arrived in Mumbai from her Alexandria home in Egypt, was moved out of her specially built 1,000-sq ft room into a suite-class room in  , Charni Road, on Friday night. 

 At 252kg, Eman can be accommodated in a normal hospital room, albeit with round-the-clock supervision. Dr Aparna Govil said Eman was shifted out to a regular room in the hospital building around 9pm on Friday. “She will be closer to other services such as occupational and physiotherapy,” said Dr Govil. It is learnt that a crane was used to lift Eman’s bed into the main hospital building. A crane was also used to lift Eman into the specially built enclosure on February 7.
 
 In January, the hospital was hauled up by the civic administration for trying to construct a special structure to accommodate Eman, and later remodeled a portion of the first floor for the then 500-kg Eman.
 
 On Tuesday, her medical team had announced that Eman had reduced to half her original weight. Although Eman already undergoes regular physiotherapy, her doctors say the chances of her walking normally are slim. “This is because she hasn’t walked in 25 years, her knees are not developed and her right side is paralyzed after a stroke she suffered three years back,’’ said Dr Muffazal Lakdawala, the bariatric surgeon who operated on her on March 7.
 
 On the bright side, as Dr Lakdawala said, “For the first time in her life, her thyroid hormone levels are normal. She doesn’t have fluid buildup, her chest is clear and each of her blood parameters is better than ever before.” He added that her obesity-related problems are under control. “She is a now patient with chronic neurological problem,” added Dr Lakdawala.
 
 However, there are a clutch of problems as well. Soon after she arrived in Mumbai, Eman started getting various spells of seizures throughout the day. While the seizures are under control with anti-epileptic medication, doctors still don’t know what triggered them. “It could be seizures emerging from the scar of her previous stroke in the brain,” said the doctor. But neurologist Dr Arun Shah, who is treating Eman, said the seizures could be the result of another stroke she has suffered. “There is no way to know until we do a CT or MRI scan. Best treatment options can then be decided upon,” added Dr Shah.
 
 Eman also appears to suffer from depression. “We can’t get an evaluation done because of the language barrier. She only speaks Arabic and isn’t coherent because of her stroke,” said doctors. The team is now waiting for her to lose another 50kg. “We have checked with hospitals in the city and found that they have CT scanners that can bear weight up to 204 kg. We expect her to lose another 50kg in a month and be ready to undergo CT scan,” said Dr Lakdawala. He said the team would then take a call on Eman’s return date to Egypt.
 
 
 
 
