NAGPUR: Title favourites Nagpur lived up to their reputation and form to retain the U-17 crown in the Goel Ganga Maharashtra Junior Inter-District Badminton Championship at the Divisional Sports Complex, Mankapur, here on Wednesday.

 In a repeat of last year's final, Nagpur steamrolled Pune 3-0 to make it two-in-a-row. At Nashik in 2016, Nagpur had to stretch fully to edge out Pune 3-2 when the mixed team format was introduced for the first time.
 
 However, this time around there was no stopping the home U-17 team as they compensated the heart-breaking defeat in the U-19 semifinal against Mumbai Suburban on Tuesday.
 
  looked rusty in the first game against  . The city lad, who was cheered on by his parents and grandfather from the sidelines, after losing the opener bounced back gallantly and captured the next two games with an excellent display to help his team take a crucial 1-0 lead.
 
 It was expected from   to win her match easily and she did not disappoint the home crowd with a straight-game victory against Pune's 13-year-old Tara Shah.
 
 Rohan in the company of his friend and schoolmate Sudhanshu Bhure sealed the fate of Pune by winning the boys doubles. As soon as the pair of Rohan and Sudhanshu converted their second match point, it was time for celebration for the players and their die-hard fans, who had rushed to the stadium in the morning to be part of the historic moment. 
 
 Nagpur district coach   was satisfied with the result but admitted that it could have been better.
 
 "Being the defending champions and hosts, we were expected to retain both the titles. However, it was our sheer bad luck that we could not do it. Yesterday, a matter of few points prevented our U-19 team from entering the final. It happens sometimes. Today everything clicked just the way we wanted. I am happy that we could retain the U-17 title," said Makode.
 
 The veteran coach said Rohan's first singles was crucial in the ultimate outcome of the tie. "Rohan gave us the ideal start by winning the first singles. But it was not easy against Varun Kapur. We were in tension when Rohan lost the first game and was trailing in the second. However, once he won the match in three games, I was confident about the win in the next two maches," said Makode.
 
 In the U-19 summit clash, Mumbai Suburban rallied back superbly to outlast Thane 3-1 to clinch the title. Aman Farogh Sanjay provided a flying start to Thane when the talented southpaw brushed aside the challenge of Tuesday's hero  . However, Thane flattered to deceive as Mumbai Suburban regrouped themselves in time and won the next three matches in succession to shatter the hopes of Thane.
 
 "We were relying too much on Aman. He won the singles but could not win the boys doubles. Had we won the boys doubles, we had a great chance to upset our opponents," said Thane coach Mayur Ghatnekar.
 
 Nagpur mayor  , NDBA president Kunda Vijaykar, Kalpana Meshram and other NDBA officials were present during the prize distribution function.
 
 
 
 
 
 Nagpur bt Pune 3-0 (Rohan Gurbani bt Varun Kapur 17-21, 22-20, 21-7; Malvika Bansod bt Tara Shah 21-10, 21-15; Sudhanshu Bhure-Rohan Gurbani bt Parth Ghube-Varun Kapur 21-15, 22-20).
 
 
 Mumbai Suburban bt Thane 3-1 (Deep Rambhiya lost to Aman Farogh Sanjay 21-14, 14-21, 14-21;   bt Mrunmayee Deshpande 21-18, 10-21, 21-11; Deep Rambhiya-Akshay Shetty bt Aman Farogh Sanjay-Pratik Ranade 21-19, 21-17; Janhavi Jagtap-Arya Shetty bt Aastha Chakravorty-Shalaka Sahastrabuddhe 21-7, 21-14). 
 
 
