It has been over three weeks since the suicide of self-professed ‘queer’,  , rocked the   community across the state. A 42-year-old PhD scholar at the  , Vishal jumped to death from the 14th floor of his apartment. What came as a shock for the LGBTQ community is that despite being out and vocal about his sexuality, and having a reasonably successful research in progress, Vishal cited ‘dissatisfaction with life and career’ in his suicide note as reason for ending his life. 

 After the initial shock of his death waned and the multitude of meet-ups and memorials in his name were done, social media posts about the artist haven’t stopped. Doing the rounds of LGBTQ support groups are multiple posts that state, ‘Vishal Tandon’s suicide is a collective queer failure’. Many believe that he resorted to the extreme step due the absence of a much-needed support system. 
 
 Acknowledging that, the LGBTQ community of   is planning to raise awareness about   through its pride parade this year. 
 
 Shiva Kumar, one of the founders of Nestam, an LGBTQ support group in Vizag, says, “I met Vishal during a queer carnival in Hyderabad and I believe his suicide is the failure of the whole community. Such incidents can be curbed only when we make people believe we are there for them and they can share their issues with us. It’s not possible to get over depression unless someone from the community is willing to show empathy. Depression within the LGBTQ community is an issue that needs to be acknowledged and not talking about it will not help. What better way to do it than at a pride march?”
 
 Shanti Vardhan, a transwoman and LGBTQ activist, opines that life would be easier for the community if the law sides with and recognises them. “The pride parade will give us a platform to discuss the issue of depression in a proper manner and come up with solutions to form a strong support system within the community.”
 
 However, not everyone from the community believes it is easy to lend support to one of their own. A member, Harish, says, “There’s a lot of confusion, fear and loneliness that LGBTQ members face. It’s not easy to blame anyone because how can one provide support and come to the rescue of others when they themselves are scared? I believe, more than outside factors, it’s loneliness within the community which fans depression and at times, leads to suicide.”
 
