UTTARPARA:   is no ordinary mother. She has defied every   and convinced her only son Atanu, 27, to get married to Jamuna — an   who grew up at the   With a daughter — she insists Jamuna is “not” her daughter-in-law — coming home, the Lake Town resident now feels her family is complete.

 “I lost my husband and elder son in a gap of eight months. I always felt lonely at home. All I wanted was to adopt a daughter. I never asked for a daughter-in-law. It was with this belief I wanted to marry my son to an orphan girl so that she becomes an integral part of the family,” said Sandhya.
 
 Her “search for a daughter” took Sandhya to Shila Kundu, superintendent of the women’s home. Kundu introduced Sandhya to Jamuna, an orphan who was transferred to the home by the Child Welfare Committee from Midnapore. Now 25, Jamuna is an expert in sewing and embroidery work. 
 
 Was it love at first sight? Jamuna nods her head vehemently. “Atanu came to meet me here. But I liked him through our subsequent interactions. We’ve met thrice,” she said. Sitting by her side, Atanu, who runs a computer business, looked happy. “I am looking forward to a blissful life,” she managed to say. Though the couple has not yet decided for a honeymoon destination, Jamuna wants to visit Puri.
 
 West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights members were guests at the marriage. “We have brought Tatya (gifts) for the couple. Also, we have gifted Jamuna a sophisticated embroidery machine on which she can work and earn,” said Ananya Chatterjee, chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights. Member of the Child Welfare Committee and the Juvenile Justice Board and singer Soumitra Roy were the other guests. Uttarpara Merchants Association and Rotary Club showered Jamuna with gifts, including a cheque worth Rs 51,000. “We had asked the home Super about what should we gift. We didn’t want the gifts to overlap,” said Ashok Banerjee, president of the merchants association. 
 
 Kundu performed all ritual in the absence of Jamuna’s father. “We followed every single ritual, be it aiburobhaat (pre-wedding feast), dodhimongol (a pre-wedding ritual) or gaaye-holud (Haldi ceremony). We got the couple registered on Monday,” said Kundu.
 
 
