SURAT: The Surat airport has got the much-needed infrastructure push with the   (AAI) approving the expansion plan for the terminal building. 

 The expansion was necessary considering the increase in passenger traffic and future requirement to commence international flight operations. 
 
 The present terminal building spread on 3,600 sq m will be extended on both the sides, adding another 5,746 sq m. This will take the total area of the terminal building at 9,346 sq. The carpet area of the terminal’s first floor will be nearly doubled from 3,200 sq m to 6,172 sq m
 
 AAI sources said that that work on expansion will begin shortly. The number of aerobridges will also be increased from two to five. 
 
 Recently, executive director (western region) of AAI, K   had written to the Director General of the Central Board of Excise and Customs (CBEC) proposing that Surat airport be customs notified for commencing international operations of passenger and cargo by the first quarter of 2017. Hemalatha stated that the AAI has identified Surat airport in the WR, which has strong potential for international flight operations. 
 
 Talking to TOI, airport director, Pramod Kumar   said, “CBEC has agreed to provide customs facility if the infrastructure is ready. However, since the terminal expansion is a long-term project, we are modifying the existing terminal to prepare the airport for limited international operations.” 
 
 Thakre added, “We intend to complete the terminal modification in next three to four months. Here, we will set up separate counters for domestic and international flights and a partition for customs facilities. Also, the runway expansion from 2,250 meters to 2,905 meters will be completed by May, making Surat as the second biggest airport after Ahmedabad”
 
 Thakre said they are in touch with a couple of airlines, which are interested in launching international operations from Surat. After the modification of terminal building and the customs clearance from CBEC, the interested airlines may start in the winter schedule this year. 
 
 At present, Surat airport has only domestic connectivity to Mumbai and Delhi. As per the data, during the year 2015-16, about 4 lakh passengers from Surat travelled to international destinations through Mumbai and Ahmedabad airport. In additional, Surat has also good potential for air cargo. As per the data, about 7,000 metric tones of cargo is currently airlifted via Mumbai, therefore facilitating direct airlifting of cargo from Surat to benefit the trade and industries. 
 
 AS per AAI, the airport is fully equipped to cater 500 passengers per hour, the runway extension of 2,905 meter likely to be completed by 2017, airport is equipped with instrument landing system, night landing facilities, operational, fire safety, navigation, metrological and ATC facilities.
 
 
