Will the 4-member prabhag system lead to better management or will it result in corporators shifting responsibilities on one another? Being the biggest change in this civic election, that was the question the   began with.

 Karan Singh Tuli of Shiv Sena said that it will benefit only major political parties. BJP’s Archana Dehankar, a former mayor, differed, saying that the system will ensure overall development of each prabhag. Zulfiqar Ahmed of Congress, however, predicted that it will widen the gap between people and their representatives. “If citizens are going to lose out, what is the use of the system,” he asked. However, Dehankar quickly countered him, saying that the Congress regime had also introduced a three-member system so a 4-ward system would be no different.
 
 Congress’s Munna Jaiswal said that the system will result in citizens having to run from pillar to post to get their work done. “All corporators will try to shift responsibility on the others. And, if the four corporators from each prabhag belong to different political parties, they will keep fighting and development will take a back seat,” he added. Dehankar said that corporators should work concertedly for the entire ward, than look at just their own area.
 
 BJP’s Raman Paigwar said that most of the corporators will be from major parties and they will have to stick to their party agenda. “Independent corporators can do much more, but the new system is designed to keep them away,” he added. Ahmed raised another pertinent point when he said that on one hand, BJP supported smaller states for better administration, but when it came to wards, it paradoxically increased the size, which may make them unwieldy.
 
 The major development on the political front this time has been that even traditional partners such as Congress-NCP and BJP-Shiv Sena have decided to go it alone. But will this result in a hung house? Illustrating that the gloves were off even among current alliance partners, Tuli from BJP’s saffron twin Shiv Sena said that contesting alone would benefit his party. “Earlier, we had to make do with the 18 seats that we would get in the share. But now, we can expand as much as we want,” he said.
 
 Dehankar said that the media and social media had made voters more aware and they would vote consciously. Jaiswal, however, predicted that there will be a lot of cross voting. Paigwar and BJP’s Rajesh Tambe, another former mayor, said that earlier, people used to vote for the candidate, but now, they will vote for the party, irrespective of the candidate.
 
 Speaking about campaign strategies, he said that parties are keeping their cards close to their chest at this juncture and asking all potential candidates to campaign together in a bid to avoid any last-minute rebellion.
 
 All the panellists, however, acknowledged that errors in voting lists could upset equations at the local level. Jaiswal said that even he was a victim. “I stay in ward no. 16 but my name is in the list of ward no. 15,” he said, adding that even during assembly  , close to 70,000 names existed in areas under West   as well as South-West Nagpur. Dehankar, too, said that out of some 850 names in a particular area she checked, 400 were found to be non-existent. Ahmed said that names of people who have passed away or have been transferred still exist in voter rolls. Paigwar said that this can also lead to bogus voting. He added that the election commission could make use of Aadhaar to ensure that there is no duplication of names in voter rolls.
 
 Talking about the missteps during the 10-year BJP rule, Jaiswal said that the spurt of development was only seen in the last year, keeping an eye on the elections. Paigwar said that tax burden on the common man was sure to go up since citizens are getting demand notes with revised tax rates with effect from April 1, 2015. “After the elections, citizens will have to pay much higher taxes,” he said. Others, including Ahmed and Tuli, said that the BJP was not carrying out development works where there was a pressing need to do so, such as in slums or low-income areas.
 
 All panellists also welcomed dissolution of Nagpur Improvement Trust. Dehankar said that the 572 and 1,900 layouts will get a developmental boost due to the move. Paigwar wondered whether   was taking care of existing areas well. “If not, then getting areas that were under NIT will be a burden. NMC should manage the responsibility well,” he said.
 
 
