CHENNAI: The rebel AIADMK camp headed by   Dhinakaran weakened further on Friday as Tenkasi MP Vasanthi Murugesan shifted loyalty to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami.

 The delay in forcing a trial of strength in the assembly and the disqualification of 18 rebel MLAs have apparently shaken Dhinakaran’s fortress. Vasanthi Murugesan was a staunch supporter of Dhinakaran till a week ago and was among the first few to extend support to him when he resumed political activity on his return from Tihar jail in July. With her desertion, the Dhinakaran camp has dwindled to six MPs and 21 MLAs. Of them, 18 MLAs have been disqualified by the speaker and the matter is pending before the Madras high court.
 
 In the run up to the general council convened by the EPS-OPS combine earlier this month, Dhinakaran camp had gained some traction as two MPs from OPS camp - B Senguttuvan (Vellore) and M Udhaya Kumar (Dindigul) - dropped in at Dhinakaran’s Adyar residence. The MPs accused Panneerselam and Palaniswami of working against the interests of the party, after being offered power. The duo took the tally of MPs supporting TTV to seven. Rajya Sabha MPs Vijila Satyananand and A Navaneetha Krishnan from   and Gokula Krishnan from Puducherry and   MP P Nagarajan (Coimbatore) are his supporters.
 
 With Palaniswami tightening his grip over the party and the government, a few more rebels could return to the ruling camp, say sources. Vasanthi Murugesan denied that she was under any threat from the EPS-OPS combine. “All I want is the continuation of Amma’s government. Our leader vowed that the party would last 100 more years after her. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam (OPS) are striving hard to continue with her welfare schemes,” she told reporters near the CM’s Greenways Road residence in Chennai. Incidentally, Vasanthi was one of the five MPs, who visited the Election Commission on September 14 demanding that the EC declare the party general council convened by the EPS-OPS group on September 12 as invalid.
 
 The delegation, led by Rajya Sabha member Vijila Satyananand, had requested the commission not to allow some 6.8 lakh affidavits, endorsing the leadership of   and Dhinakaran, to be withdrawn by the EPS-OPS camp. “Vasanthi was not only present with us, but was also a signatory to the petition urging the commission to declare the general council as invalid. The petition noted that only the general secretary of the party could convene the meeting as per the party bylaw, which remains the basic structure of the party floated by M G Ramachandran and nurtured by J Jayalalithaa,” Vijila Satyanand told TOI. Vasanthi, however, claimed that she stood “outside” the EC office when the delegation presented the memorandum.
 
 Drifting away from his original demand to unseat Palaniswami, Dhinakaran turned belligerent after the expulsion of   from the party and made his intention clear to topple the government. It did not go down well with majority of the leaders and functionaries who see a growing popularity of EPS and OPS among masses. “How could this be permitted? The 1.5 crore cadres of our party are up against the family rule. Our leader sacrificed her life for the welfare of people and why should her government be brought down? They (EPS and OPS) are only following her path and continuing the welfare schemes,” Tirupur MP V Sathyabama said.
 
