PUNE: The process of acquiring   for the 508km Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed   Rail, in collaboration with the Japanese government, will have to be expedited to   the 2023   completion  , the newly appointed   to the bullet   project Sanjeev Sinha has stated.

 PM Narendra Modi and Japanese PM HE Shinzo Abe laid the foundation stone of the project on Thursday.
 
 On the sidelines of a function in the city, Sinha told TOI that governments of both Maharashtra and Gujarat had already delayed the land   process. 
 
 “We are already long overdue and we’re hoping that both states speed up the land acquisition process so that the project implementation can speed up and we do not miss the 2023 deadline,” said Sinha.
 
 The railways will require a little over 800 hectares of land for the project as nearly 90% of the route will be elevated. About 2% of the route will be underground. A 21km-long tunnel will be created between Boisar and Bandra Kurla Complex in Mumbai, of which 7km will be under the sea.
 
 Another hurdle the adviser envisages is ensuring enough human resource within the country. “We have to ensure that there is enough human resource to take the project forward through various collaborations with Japanese companies and that the Japanese government’s funding is channelized in the right manner,” stated Sinha.
 
 For this, the adviser is helping form a technology fund that will streamline the process of funding coming to India for the project so that it can channelized for the right use. The project is expected to generate employment for 20,000 people directly and indirect employment for about 2-3 lakh. Moreover, Sinha is also exploring possibilities for investment along the rail corridor and in the food and entertainment aspects. “Talks are on with several people and we should see many investors from India taking up the project,” stated Sinha who also had a discussion with some Pune investors regarding the project.
 
 Elaborating further Sinha said that technology, funding and human resources can take the project ahead and help meet the 2023 deadline. At the same time, a dedicated high speed rail training institute will coach technical staff for the project.
 
 With PM Modi’s announcement stating that the project is almost free, Sinha reiterated that the amount is like a ‘grant’, considering the time frame of 50 years to repay the loan of Rs 88,000 crore.
 
