PUDUCHERRY: Almost six years after S Arivazhagan found a   inside a bottle of brandy he brought from a wholesale  , district   president A Asokan ordered Happy Wines, John distilleries limited, Bengaluru, and Ravikumar distilleries limited, Puducherry , to pay of compensation of `20,000 and pay another `5,000 towards the cost of proceedings to Arivazhagan.

 The cook from Marie Oulgaret moved the district consumer disputes' redressal forum seeking action against the wholesale wine shop and two distilleries besides demanding a compensation of `10 lakh with 24% interest.
 
 Arivazhagan in his complaint said he bought a 180ml bottle of Original Choice brandy from Happy Wines on March 3, 2010 and fur nished the cash bill to prove his claim. He said he was shocked and surprised to find a dead frog inside the bottle on reaching home. He issued a notice to the wholesale wine shop and two distilleries seeking compensation of `10 lakh with 24% interest for gross negligence, deficiency in service and unfair trade practices. The opposite parties refused to reply to his notice.
 
 “The non-reply to notice tanta mounts to negligence and reckless attitude of the opposite parties...they should be punished severely so that they can be deterred from manufacturing such products in future,“ said the complainant seeking action against the three parties for gross negligence, deficiency in service and unfair trade practices.
 
 The forum president, while endorsing the complainant's claims, brushed aside the argument of the distilleries that there is absolutely no possibility of any foreign particle getting into the brandy bottle.The president also set aside their argument that the bottle was not their product.
 
 “The complainant is bereft of details of the bottle like manufacturing date. There is absolutely no unfair trade practice or negligence...the opposite party believes that it is a handiwork of the complainant to make unlawful gain,“ the opposition advocate attempted to convince the president but in vain. They also pointed out that the complainant has not consumed the liquor and hence the correlation to the relief is `exorbitant and in order to get unlawful gain'. Pronouncing the order the forum president said the bottle was produced in unopened condition. Moreover the foreign material (dead frog) is visible to the naked eye, he noted.
 
 “Even though liquor was not consumed by complainant it will not discharge the opposite parties from liabilities for deficiency in service and unfair trade practice since the presence of substance by itself is a defect in the goods in question,“ the president said. Arivazhagan, who is entitled to a compensation of `20,000 and another `5,000 towards cost of proceedings, proposes to go for an appeal insisting for higher compensation.
 
