RAIPUR: What started as a spine-chilling   in Bhopal turned into a   on Sunday with police exhuming the   Udyan Das’ parents from a house in the posh Sunder Nagar locality of Raipur. The investigation now spans three states — Bengal,  .

 The remains dug up from eight-10 feet below the earth are suspected to be that of P K Das, a former Bhopal BHEL employee, and his wife Indrani Das, who retired as a senior official of the directorate of statistics and planning in Raipur. They owned the house, which Udyan sold off through an acquaintance after their “death”. On Sunday, a hooded Udyan pointed out the areas in the garden where the bodies were buried. Asked why he killed them, he said in a flat tone that they used to “pester him get a job”.
 
 The digging of the garden took more than four hours. An excavation machine was used to reach the bodies, making cops wonder how Udyan dug the holes without anyone noticing. They are questioning him to see if he had an accomplice.
 
 Police found dismembered skeletons and two skulls — indicating that two bodies were buried — scraps of cloths, a few gold ornaments such as a ring, chain, bangles and few glass bangles. “We have collected and listed the skeletons and other items exhumed from the garden. These will be sent for forensic examination and DNA sample analysis to establish the identity of the deceased and to find out if it matched with the DNA of suspect  , who has admitted to killing his parents,” Raipur SP Dr Sanjeev Shukla said.
 
 While Raipur police are registering a case of murder against Udyan, police will move court for his custody since he is currently on transit remand with Bengal cops. He will be taken to Bankura, Akansha’s hometown.
 
 In the morning, seeing a large team of cops, mediapersons, a crowd started gathering in the locality. Police quickly put up barricades but within minutes, the surrounding rooftops were packed with onlookers. As an excavator trundled in, the buzz grew.
 
 With his face covered in a black hood and his left hand tied to a rope, Udyan showed police where he had “buried his parents after killing them”. Labourers began digging the garden but after an hour, police decided to use the excavator because Bengal police had to catch the 4pm flight to Kolkata with the suspect.
 
 At a depth of about eight feet, the first bones were seen. These were carefully removed and the digging switch to manual. Police also sought the help of well-known archaeologist Prabhat Singh to ensure the remains were removed properly and try to give an on-the-spot estimate of how long they were buried.
 
 Even as the dig was on, Udyan was questioned by Raipur police about the motive behind the double murder. He claimed he strangled them in a fit of rage because they kept pressuring him to attend campus placements and take up a job. But police feel he is again trying to mislead them and there is more to it.
 
 The excavation took longer than thought, and the cops missed their flight. They will take Udyan to Bengal on Monday.
 
 Residents of Sundar Nagar were shocked to hear that the elderly couple were killed and buried in their own garden. “This is the first time that something like this is happening in our colony. We can’t believe this. We are shocked,” said Ramesh Sharma.
 
 Some neighbours said they last met Udyan in 2009 when he was an engineering student. A few others recalled an incident where Udyan picked up a quarrel with one of them several years ago.
 
 Udyan once told neighbours that his father died due to illness and his mother had moved to Bhopal where she died in hospital. “For a few years, the house remained closed till its new owner, a lawyer, moved in around 2014,” said a long-time resident.
 
