KOLKATA: A six-month-old girl from Sonarpur has been hospitalized with acid burn injury and is at risk of losing her eyesight following an  . Her life is hanging in the balance due to infection from the wound.

 While her parents have accused the paternal grandmother of injecting acid into the infant's eyes, police are also investigating the role of the father, who is now untraceable.
 
 The acid attack allegedly occurred on September 3, but the baby's father, Joyanta Chakraborty, lodged a complaint on September 15, that too not at Sonarpur police station, but with the South 24 Parganas SP .
 
 The complaint says the infant was asleep next to her mother, Tumpa, when her grandmother tiptoed into the room along with the baby's uncle, Biplab, and injected acid into the child's eyes. “I was woken up by the wail of my child. I found my mother-in-law injecting acid into my daughter's eyes,” alleged Tumpa.
 
 According to the mother, the child was initially taken to Bangur Institute of Neurology and later to SSKM Hospital, from where she was discharged on September 14 with the advice that she be taken to an eye hospital.
 
 On Monday , locals found the parents walking about with the child in a Garia locality. Members of Shanti Sanga, a local club, reached out to them and brought the child to Calcutta National   and Hospital (CNMCH).
 
 “The parents seemed clueless, so we helped them get the infant admitted,” said Saurav Roy, a club member.
 
 Seeing the condition of the child, hospital administrators, including assistant superintendent Abhishek Dey , arranged for admission immediately at the eye department. Doctors said the baby had suffered extensive damage and it would be difficult to restore her eyesight.
 
 “The left eye is completely damaged and the condition of the right eye is not good. Infection too has set it. It is going to be a tough battle,“ said Dr Ketaki Bagchi, eye department head at CNMCH.
 
 During investigation, police found that the couple had left their Sonarpur locality more than a month ago. The baby's father, in fact, had been arrested in July this year after his mother lodged a complaint of torture against him. Cops found the baby's grandmother unable to walk without crutches and felt it was unlikely that she could have carried out the crime.
 
 “We have registered a case under Section 326 A of IPC (causing grievous injury by use of acid) and started a probe,” said a police source.
 
 The police are not giving a clean chit to the father, given his antecedents. He e used to work as a priest long ago. According to sources, he has married at least four times without divorcing his first, wife. The family reportedly was against this. Angry locals had reportedly told him not to return to the locality after he allegedly attacked his mother the e last time. “The father has remained elusive,” said a police source.
 
