PUNE: The 141 passengers on board a   faced anxious moments mid-air in the wee hours of Friday after the pilot suddenly announced that the aircraft had experienced a technical glitch and would return to the Pune airport.

 The flight (G8-293) was scheduled to depart from Pune at 1.25am but took off around 40 minutes later. It returned to the Pune airport at 3am.
 
 Journalist Pranabananda Das, who was among the passengers, said, “We faced some uneasy and anxious moments.After 20 minutes of flying, the pilot announced that there was a technical problem and that the flight would have to return to Pune. This caused some commotion. The flight was already facing a lot of turbulence since it took off. There were several women and children on the aircraft.“ Das said the landing at Pune airport was not a smooth one. “ After landing, the aircraft was taken to the bay area where a team of engineers got in and checked it for around 30 minutes. The passengers were in the aircraft during this time.Finally , at around 3.30am, the airline officials announced that the flight would not be going to Bengaluru and that we had to deboard.“ Das said it was raining heavily then and most passengers got drenched walking the 100 metres or so to the terminal building. “ At the airport, the airline officials were giving different versions of the incident, adding to the passengers' frustration,“ he said.
 
 Another passenger, who requested anonymity , said the scene at the airport was one of total confusion. “The facilities at the terminal building are also not up to the mark. How can this be an international airport? The airline officials were clueless. It was total mismanagement all around,“ he said.
 
 Das, meanwhile, said the airline did not provide the passengers with accommodation or transfers. “The airline didn't help me get hotel accommodation. We were not offered any refreshments either. This is terrible behaviour. After much hassle, I got a ticket to Bengaluru on an IndiGo flight at 6.30pm on Friday ,“ he added.
 
 A   spokesperson said the flight had to return because of a minor technical glitch in the aircraft. “Flight G8-293 with141passengers returned to Pune due to a minor technical glitch after being airborne for 20 minutes this morning. Post landing, all passengers were taken care off and accommodated on alternate flights onwards to Bengaluru this morning. The glitch has been rectified and the aircraft is currently operational,“ the statement from the spokesperson read.
 
 
 
 
 In another flight delay , another   from Pune to Chennai was delayed for over three hours.
 
 One of the flyers, Gopinath Ravi, vented his frustration on social media by posting, “Pune to Chennai flight late by 3 hours. Great poor service. Never GoAir again.“ He got a reply from GoAir which said that the flight had been delayed due to ATC congestion.
 
 When contacted, a GoAir spokesperson said, “Flight G8 633 was delayed by 3 hours 16 minutes due to the late arrival of the incoming flight (Ahmedabad-Pune) from Ahmedabad which was precipitated by the diversion of the earlier Mumbai-Ahmedabad flight to Jaipur due to VVIP movement. All 163 passengers at Pune were provided with refreshments and were taken care of.“
 
