KOLKATA: As the government weighs its options on when to introduce Bengali as a compulsory language in schools, parents of young kids are fretting over the uncertain future their children are staring at as they step into the most crucial phase of their lives. What seem to perturb parents most is the lack of a convincing rationale behind the proposal that is sure to create additional pressure on tender minds.

 Sukanya Das, whose son Abhrajyoti will graduate to Class I in   for Boys next year, has been tense ever since she learned about the government’s intent to tinker with the third-language policy to make Bengali compulsory in schools across the state. 
 
 “What’s wrong with the present system of learning a third language in middle school? I have seen my elder son struggle with second language Bengali when it was introduced in Class I after he had already had three years of English in lower nursery, upper nursery and KG. To thrust a third language at this age will be terrible. I believe it will affect a child’s proficiency in the two primary languages and may even develop a phobia,” said Das.
 
 What seems to irk parents most is the pressure of an additional subject on children who are already burdened so much that most don’t even have time to play. 
 
 “These days, children are robbed of their childhood due to the parental pressure to perform well in this intensely competitive environment. Adding anything more in this situation may push children to the breaking point. I feel sorry for Shirsha when I compare her situation to my childhood. If another language is added to the syllabus, the little free time that she has will be lost,” said   whose daughter is a nursery student at Loreto Day School, Dharmatala.
 
 Parents also point out that for non-Bengali and non-Hindi children, they tend to learn the mother tongue at home; the local language from the neighbourhood and Hindi from television and cinema. So long as there is no pressure of examinations, learning is fun and easy. 
 
 Debarati Ghosh, whose daughter Ishanvi is in nursery in Modern High School, is fervently hoping that the government keeps the third language option in middle school. She also doesn’t see the merit of forcing a language down a child’s throat. 
 
 “Those who have a knack for picking up languages will do so. I have never studied Hindi but can speak, read and write because I picked up the language. What one needs is a working knowledge of languages, not mastery over it unless one wishes to pursue it in higher studies,” she reasoned. 
 
 
