CHANDIGARH: Six days ahead of the proposed agitation for reservation under the   (OBC) quota, differences have cropped up among Jat leaders in Haryana as   and Om   have come out in the open against   (AIJASS) president Yash Pal Malik.

 AIJASS has given a call to revive the agitation for reservation for the community and withdrawal of criminal cases against Jat youths from January 29.
 
 Mann termed Malik as an outsider with a single point agenda of his political ambitions. Sangwan said, “Except for creating law and order problem in the state by misleading the youths and villagers, he has done nothing for Haryana. At a time when the issue of reservation for Jats and others is pending in the Punjab and Haryana high court, there is no logic in resorting to strike. We do not support such people.“
 
 When contacted, undeterred AIJASS president Malik maintained that their agitation would start as decided earlier. “Mann and Sangwan never supported us. They acted as agents of the BJP and its government in Haryana, which was behind the 2016 bloodbath of the Jat youths. We have already announced that it is going to be a peaceful agitation with dharnas in villages, not in towns and cities,“ said Malik. “The case against the quota for Jats and five other communities is pending before the high court. No case regarding the matter is pending before the SC and we are demanding reservation from the Union government. Secondly, the state government has not dropped cases against the innocent youths lodged in jail,“ he said.
 
 As AIJASS prepares for the agitation across state, government has also been bolstering its defence. A day after cancelling the leaves of police department officials, the government on Monday issued standing orders for the divisional commissioners, deputy commissioners, additional deputy commissioners, sub-divisional magistrates, revenue officials to cancel the leaves of their subordinates. Rajesh Khullar, chief minister's principal secretary has said those coming to seek permission to stage protest must give an undertaking stating that they would be responsible for any damage to public property.
 
