BENGALURU: April 6 will be a big day for 69 students of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS). The 21 men and 48 women will be honoured with 103 gold medals at the convocation ceremony. A total of 26,698 students will receive degree certificates. 

 Among those graduating are 51 PhD students, 130 superspecialty students, 5,140 postgraduates, 188 fellowship students, 17 certificate course students and 21,172 undergraduates. HG Sharath Chandra, director of the Centre for Human Genetics, Bengaluru, will address the gathering at the varsity’s 19th convocation. 
 
 With the governor’s approval, RGUHS has decided to commemorate the achievements of notable individuals by conferring on them honorary doctorate degrees. Dr  , a retired professor of medicine from   and Dr Govindaraj Subramani from Mysuru, who’s working as a cardiologist in the US, will receive the honour this year.
 
 
 
 I didn’t slog through the day but made it a point to study three to four hours daily; the number increased to seven during exams. Though I had the option of coming to Bengaluru, I decided to stay back in Davanagere to benefit from the advice and experience of my parents, who are also doctors. It worked for me. I am yet to sit for any entrance exam and would like to explore this vast field before finalizing what to specialize in
 
 
 
 
 I give a lot of credit to my college. My preparation was focused on revising what I learnt in college. I have always been regular in class and used notes to prepare during exams. I am from Bihar and had to pick up Kannada to interact with patients. It has been a good learning experience. I plan to pursue MD from   in Thiruvananthapuram 
 
 
 
 
 Learning Ayurveda shlokas was difficult and in first year, I would study up to six hours a day. It got easier with time as the concepts became familiar. My lecturers were helpful and the college provided us with all the facilities required. In future, I would like to study gynaecology or become a surgeon. I have always wanted to be a doctor and my parents encouraged me to do my best
 
 S
 
 
 ‘Arrangements in place for Ramanagara campus’
 
 We have made all arrangements for the varsity’s Ramanagara campus. The engineering department has already been moved and we are in the process of finalizing the logistical and infrastructural requirements of the new campus. The government is not against the relocation but has told us to keep students’ convenience in mind. We are trying to take many procedures online so that students don’t have to visit the campus for everything
 
 KS Ravindranath, vice chancellor, RGUHS
 
 Research grants, regional centres
 
 In 2016-17, 85 research proposals of the university got grants worth Rs 4 crore. This was done to promote basic, advanced, integrated and collaborative research. Under collaborative research, nine proposals (Rs 3 crore) are being taken up with IISc and four proposals (Rs 1 crore) with the  .
 
 The university is in the process of establishing regional centres at Kalaburagi, Belagavi, Davanagere and Mangaluru. The tender process has been completed for the Kalaburagi centre and construction will begin in two weeks.
 
