HYDERABAD: Cyber Crime police blame   and Monitoring (TERM) for its failure to crack the whip on telecom majors for steep increase in one-time password ( ) fraud cases. Offenders have become so brazen that they even managed to trap a city-based   bank official and siphoned off 24,000 from her account.

 Hyderabad Cyber Crime police claim they have written several letters to the TERM asking them to take action against the increasing fake SIM cards being procured by miscreants to cheat people.
 
 “We have written five letters to TERM, asking them to take action against some popular telecommunication companies. As per the rules, if a company provides a SIM card with fake address proof, it can be fined up to Rs 50,000. Culprits indulging in OTP frauds are using fake SIM cards to call people and pretend to be bank officials. We have asked them to block services of numbers which were issued based on fake address or fake ID proofs to procure SIM cards,“ Hyderabad assistant commissioner of police, Cyber crime, K C Raghu Vir told  .
 
 “Initially, the verification procedure for obtaining a SIM used to be strict, but now, it is available easily even at paan shops. Also, companies do not put in much effort in verifying address proofs of their customers. As a result, it becomes difficult for police to trace the culprit as they throw the SIM card away after committing an offence,“ an official from the department said.
 
 Till August this year, the Cyber Crime Cell has registered 100 cases of OTP fraud, while the accused were identified from other states, especially Delhi and Jharkhand.“We do not get any help from local police in   and Delhi most of the time.We have deployed a team in Delhi, but the moment we reach the districts of Jharkhand and inform local police, the news spread and most of them manage to escape,“ Raghu Vir added.
 
 In Hyderabad, as most people can converse in Hindi, the culprits from Jharkhand were targeting them, he said.
 
 According to the  , both private and public sector banks dispatch debit cards through outsourced agents and the culprits manage to lay their hands on card details.
 
 “As the culprits already have all details of the bank, they just need the OTP to complete a transaction like a money transfer. They call the customers saying that they need to link their Aadhaar number with their bank account and offer help. They convince the victim saying that their bank would send an OTP in the next few minutes and convince them to divulge this crucial input to complete the procedure. The moment they receive the OTP they transfer certain amount from the person's bank account,“ the Cyber Crime Cell officer said.
 
 Police said as the accused provide all details of the bank account, the victims tend to believe them and provide the OTP.
 
 “We have started awareness programmes asking people not to share their OTP with anyone, including their bank staff. Now, people are aware of the OTP fraud. Instead of falling into the trap of con artists, they are lodging complaints ,“ he added.
 
