AHMEDABAD: The Union ministry of earth sciences on Friday launched “Safar-Air”, the   and Weather Forecasting and Reaserch (SAFAR) for Ahmedabad city, fourth city in the country after Delhi, Mumbai and Pune to get Safar.

 Dr  , Union minister for science and technology and earth sciences launched Safar-Ahmedabad on Friday. Not only will Safar-Ahmedabad be available on the web, but an Android version was also launched.
 
 Safar-Ahmedabad will give day-to-day information about air quality at ten places in the  . The app will give daily information for Ahmedabad city as a whole, Navrangpura, Satellite, Bopal, Gift City, the airport, Lekhwada, Chandkheda, Raikhad, Rakhial and Pirana. 
 
 Apart from setting up the air quality monitoring station, the Union ministry, in coordination with Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation and Indian Institute of Public Health, will provide real time data. Real-time air quality data will be given for Vastrapur, Sardar Patel Stadium, Satellite, the airport, Subhash Bridge, Gift City, Vishala, Danapith, Memco, Kalupur, Kankaria and Viratnagar areas. 
 
 At the time of the launch, only the air quality at Memco was found to be poor, while it was moderate at all the other places.
 
 Harsh Vardhan, while launching Safar, said his ministry has provided the details of the air quality in the city, but it is now the responsibility of the people of the city and its elected representatives to take up a campaign to improve the air quality. 
 
 Giving details of Safar, Vardhan said the project will give exact details about weather and rainfall as well, which will help farmers. According to a ministry report, providing timely information to farmers had a positive impact worth Rs 50,000 crore on the GDP of the country.
 
 Vardhan further said that the country had launched the Rs-400 crore National Monsoon Mission. Under it, the government will be able to give an exact weather forecast down to the block level. He further said that the government has taken up a programme in Shillong, where sensors are being installed in the ground for early earthquake warnings.
 
 The minister, in his 24-minute speak, focused on the achievement of the PM Narendra Modi. He said that before 2014, only 356 km of optical fibre had been laid but since 2014, around 2 lakh km of optical fibre was laid and the government plans to network all panchayats in the country by 2018.
 
