GUWAHATI: Rapid deforestation and urbanization has rendered the age-old Bihu ritual of consuming   during the spring season limited to less than 10 varieties due to non-availability. Some precious herbs with medicinal properties are not grown any more or have been pushed to be grown in the inaccessible jungles of the state. 

 Besides paying obeisance to the elders in the family, bathing the cows in the river and offering paeans to 'mother nature' who is in full bloom,   or the Assamese New Year entails this other age-old ritual of consuming 100 varieties of herbs.
 
 Detachment from rusticity and a yearning for a more urbane existence among burgeoning sections of society has pushed traditional herbs like Footkola, Madhoulota, Barhamthuri, Kotari Dobua Maan, Edoliya Kochu, Tubulilota, Mathukothuka, Baaghasora, Babori, Mejenga, Mechaaki either to the fringes of the existing wilderness or to the far flung hilly terrains.
 
 Once easily available in the local markets, the herbs did a vanishing act when Assam began to witness a wide scale inorganic escalation of concrete jungles and fast depletion of forested areas.
 
 Though such herbs lost their presence as a new generation overlooked their medicinal properties, the little green wonders have found a specific place among eager conservationists and food chroniclers.
 
 "The herbs cannot be found easily now as global warming, deforestation and urbanisation have pushed the plants to interior woodlands. I am planning to revive the herbs by growing them in a specified garden. It may take some time but I am quite serious about the initiative. The ritual of consuming over 100 varieties of herbs was aimed at maintaining a healthy lifestyle," said Atul Lahkar, noted chef, food chronicler and restaurateur.
 
 Experts on plant and agricultural sciences conveyed that ignorance about the existence of such herbs could be another factor that led to their fast depletion.
 
 "Though some of the herbs are found in rural markets and in villages the rare ones now can be found in jungles and heavy woodlands. Some people do not even know that few rare herbs grow in backyards of their houses. Backyards in traditional houses are also fast depleting. Consuming herbs during Bihu is an intrinsic part of Assamese culture," said Priyanka Das, scientist at  , Jorhat.
 
 Saranga Ranjan Patgiri, head of the botany department at   told TOI that there is an urgent need to conserve, revive and preserve the traditional herbs for future generations.
 
 "Steps must be taken now to ensure that the herbs are revived. Some of the rare herbs are almost on the verge of disappearance. They are not lost. We still have hopes to bring them back within the common fold. Because of the non-availability of the herbs to be consumed during Bihu, the tradition of consuming 100 herbs has now been reduced to only seven," added Patgiri.
 
