LUCKNOW: Sukriti Shukla, a class III student of a   in Mahanagar, fell ill while on her way home on Monday. She complained of nausea, suffocation and stomach ache. Her parents rushed her to a nearby   where doctors diagnosed heat stroke as the cause.

 Sukriti is not the only one. School children have been the worst hit by the   lashing the city for the past five days. Parents said since summers have arrived early this year,   should either change timings or announce summer vacations ahead of the schedule. 
 
 Meanwhile, parents are doing their best to help the kids cope. From packing an extra bottle of juice and glucose and an extra tiffin with fruits, to giving umbrellas and sunglasses as shield from the sun.
 
 Madhuri Saxena, whose 10-year-old son also suffered heat stroke, said, “Never in my life have I seen such high temperatures at the beginning of April.” “Most schools get over between 1-2pm and children reach home by 3-4pm. This is the period when the heat is at its peak. As a result, school children are the worst affected,” she said. 
 
 Rajesh Saxena, father of seven-year-old Rishi, a student of a private school in Aliganj, said, “Within minutes, my son took ill. From the moment he got out of the school till the time he boarded the school bus. Now, he’s bed-ridden. Now I am not going to send my daughter, who is in class VI, to school till the heat wave subsides.” 
 
 Archana Tiwari’s daughter, student of a private school in Hazratganj, said, “My daughter travels in a van which makes her nauseous and suffocated. She vomitted three times on her way back on Friday.” Similarly, an upper prep student’s mother also complained about her daughter’s health. “My daughter has been vomitting and has an upset stomach because of the heat. Schools should change the timings,” she said. 
 
 Parents who go to pick their wards also complained about the traffic and parking problem. “We have to park vehicles at a distance and walk all the way to school and back in the sun along with the child. Traffic congestion leaves us out in the sun longer than necessary.” 
 
 
