BENGALURU: From using cybercrime techniques like masking of emails to using firms which provide fake credentials on résumés for a fee, some Indians won't hestitate to cross the line just to get a job.

 A few months ago, an investigator with a private employee screening compa ny found that the address of the firm a candidate claimed he'd worked at was a cemete ry in Banjara Hills, Hyderabad. An investigator from another screening firm found that the university which granted an MBA to a candidate vying to be the vice-president (HR) of an ITITeS company in India did not exist, and its address was that of a garage in New York. Cases of faking experi ence and qualification, among other things, have been found in Bengaluru, Chennai, Gurugram and all major cities in India. All sectors are affected, but ITITeS companies and banks have better verification systems than other sectors, say experts.
 
 Given the present scenario of 1% growth in job creation and increased concerns of a lull in hiring, experts says falsification of resumes may only increase. “General Motors' decision to stop selling cars in India, Tata Motors firing nearly 1,500 people, the IT sector freezing recruitment and sacking employees and the pace of job creation will all see falsification of resumes increase in the coming months,“ Rohit  , managing director, Pinkerton India, APAC (Asia Pacific) & EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and Afri ca) -Global Screening told STOI from Gurugram. He said while this has been happening for some time, what's shocking is that those vying for positions of trust -executive level-are also doing it. According to Netrika Consulting India Private Limited, of the 10,000 resumes it checked in the last financial year, 12% to 15% had false information.
 
 “There's a full-fledged busi ness in Hyderabad and Bengaluru. They charge Rs 15,000 to Rs 30,000 to give false experience letters and a premium to even verify on phone or email,“ Netrika Consulting managing director Sanjay Kaushik said from Mumbai.
 
 Firms offering illegitimate services to job aspirants are becoming slicker. They have professional-looking websites, have people receiving calls from investigators screening candidates and vouch for credentials on the résumé. They even mask emails, making it look like it is coming from a credible firm. Only those with multiple levels of checking are able to find the fluff, and even that's not 100% certain.
 
 Karnatak said that at least 1% to 2% of résumés at the executive level are falsified. “The candidate whose university turned out to be a garage in New York is just one case. The applicant thought we wouldn't do a physical verification in the US. We did it after we found that he had paid the fees on September 20, while his MBA certificate was dated September 17,“ he added.
 
 A mid-level HR manager at an MNC in Bengaluru said: “The procedure is to not offer the job or terminate (if already employed) and disallow them from applying in any of the firm's branches for six months. The policy is followed by most MNCs in India.If the person is caught the second time, he is barred from applying forever.“
 
