BAREILLY/ SHAJAHANPUR:   has arrested a disabled man who kidnapped his cousin -a   -and demanded Rs 1 crore in ransom to pay bribe for a   that he had been promised.

 Along with his two aides,   later killed the 21-year-old youth out of fear that they would be found out and cut his body into pieces before stuffing it in a suitcase and dumping it in a  .
 
 The accused later kidnapped his own nephew, 19, and demanded a ransom of Rs 40 lakh. Later, he killed him too.But he ran out of luck this time and was caught. During interrogation, he spilled be ans on both the murders.
 
 Anurag Pal, who studied medical science at Gangasheel Medical College, went missing in April last year. His parents filed a complaint and the police soon initiated a probe into his disappearance. It was only after Shahjahan pur police arrested Vishnu Dayal in another   that he confessed to abducting and killing Anurag as well. Both the victims were related to Dayal.
 
 Shahjahanpur SP (city) Kamal Kishor said, “In the first incident, Dayal brutally killed his cousin Anurag Pal after he came to know that police were working on solid leads. In December last year, he kidnapped his 19-year-old nephew Rajbabu. He kept Rajbabu with him for over two months before he was stalked by the same fear of being caught. He killed him too, stuffed his body in a suitcase and threw it in a canal.“
 
 Dayal, along with two other aides, was arrested on March 23 after Shahjahanpur police acted on a tip-off. In his statement to cops, the accused confessed to both the crimes and said he only wanted to raise money for a bribe he was asked to pay for a government job.“He demanded a ransom of Rs 1 crore in the first incident and later came down to Rs 5 lakh.But he eventually killed Anurag Pal out of fear. In his second attempt, he demanded a ransom of Rs 40 lakh, but that too went awry,“ Kishor added.
 
 Meanwhile, even as Anurag's parents, including his father Hakim Singh, are yet to come to terms with the reality of losing their son, an eerie silence prevailed in the hostel campus of the medical college in Bareilly where he was enrolled as a student. “He kept to himself. He was a harmless person.It is shocking to hear that he met with such a ghastly end,“ said Akash Kumar, Anurag's room partner in the hostel.
 
