Chandigarh: From June 1, 2018, around 23,000 commercial tax payers of the city will get notices related to property tax, alerts and their dates on their mobile phones and tax payers will be able to pay tax through a mobile app. Residential and commercial properties will also be located through satellite images to bring them under the tax ambit. These are some of the major works Noida-based GIS Consortium India Private Limited will do in the next one year. The MC has already allotted work to the company for Rs 1 crore and a team of experts will reach the city for the survey by next week.

 Sources in the MC tax branch said notice dates, period, information of rebate period and penalty period will be fixed in the app in such a way that every property tax payer gets information on time.
 
 “The selected agency has been given one year’s time for the work. It will also computerise the taxation department of the MC. With this, we will have computerised records of each and every file of the tax branch. The mobile app will facilitate people and we will have complete record of properties”, said Uma Shankar Gupta, additional municipal commissioner, MC.
 
 The MC has written to the chief architect department of the Chandigarh administration to provide satellite imagery from National Remote Sensing, Hyderabad for physical measurements. 
 
 In its letter to the UT chief architect department, MC says, “MC, Chandigarh is working on a project of capacity building for urban development for improvement in property tax and implementation of property tax MIS system. MC has come to know that satellite imagery system from the National Remote Sensing Hyderabad is available with the architect and planning department of Chandigarh. In order to have common database across all government platforms and to increase efficiency, it is a request to help us by providing information of satellite imagery from National Remote Sensing Hyderabad, base map and other GIS-related date. The said date will help MC to update the base map to the high accuracy and provide world class service to its citizens.”
 
 Box: Improvement on the cards
 
 The agency will also recommend improvement in the existing administrative system to achieve at least 90% in property tax collection along with a grievances redressal system. With a detailed survey, the civic body hopes to increase the number of property tax payers in both commercial and residential segments. Identification of under assessed and un-assessed properties is also in the scope of work of the selected company.
 
 
