NAGPUR: The performance of   in the   (NMC) elections depends a lot on its support among the Muslim community.

 This time, All India   (AIMIM) has entered the election scene time altering the existing political equations. The number of seats it will win is being hotly debated by pollsters, and more importantly, how much damage it will do to Congress. 
 
 The new entrant is contesting 19 seats in the city, all of them with a significant Muslim population.
 
 A Congress activist, on the condition of anonymity, admitted that AIMIM was a force to reckon with in central Nagpur. “While older voters are still with Congress, the younger lot has sided with AIMIM. They wholeheartedly agree what AIMIM chief   says and feel neglected by our party. Congress has failed to accommodate young Muslims in the party and our local leaders are solely to blame for this,” he told TOI.
 
 AIMIM has raised general issues rather than local ones. The issues raised by the party include opposition to the uniform civil code, beef ban, and even the Bhopal encounters, said residents of Mominpura, the area with the largest Muslim population in the city.
 
 Apart from AIMIM, other parties including BJP too are wooing Muslims. Muslim candidates have been fielded by almost major parties in the area. Jaitunbi Ansari, the second deputy mayor of BJP, is also contesting from ward no. 8 which covers Mominpura. Over 40,000 Muslim voters are expected to be there in the locality. The Muslim audience are between the Ansaris (weavers’ community) and others. Much of electoral equation may depend on this factor.
 
 Muslim League, which had entered into a post-poll alliance with the ruling BJP, has now tied up with NCP. “It is going to be a tough fight for all the candidates. However, the contest is generally expected to be among the candidates of mainstream parties,” said Shahid Sharif, a social activist.
 
 AIMIM may stand a chance in Mominpura but in Hasanbagh, there are no takers for Owaisi’s party. It was expected to consolidate its vote bank among Muslims. “AIMIM has no base here, nor did it give ticket to any candidate. Had it been so, people would have given a second thought,” said Ibrahimbhai Chudiwale, an NCP candidate.
 
 Voters near Tajbagh area, particularly those coming to Hazrat Tajbaba ITI, were a bit inclined towards AIMIM. According to voters, though there were Muslim candidates from other major parties, they would prefer to vote for AIMIM candidate Shahid Raza, who is in his mid-20s.
 
 
