The   came to the rescue of a pregnant 21-year-housewife from Chembur on Friday, permitting her to abort her 25-week foetus suffering from a complex neurological condition. This is the fourth such case this year in which the apex court has allowed women to abort beyond the legally permissible limit of 20 weeks after detection of abnormalities in foetuses at an advanced stage.

 A bench of Justices   and A M Khanwilkar allowed the abortion plea of   and her husband on the basis of the medical report which favoured medical termination of the pregnancy. The court earlier set up a medical board consisting of heads of department of gynaecology, neurology and cardiology of   in Mumbai to examine her.Standing counsel   placed the report before the court in a sealed envelope.
 
 As per the report, the foetus has a complex neurological condition called aqueductal stenosis and hydrocephalus. It says this condition will continue to progressively affect the brain. “After the delivery, surgical treatment may be offered which entails risk of mortality and morbidity,“ the report said. The medical board recommended abortion. Taking into account the report, the bench di rected JJ Hospital to medically terminate the pregnancy without any delay.
 
 The Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971, permits abortion till the foetus is 20 weeks old. The apex court has also granted pleas of rape survivors to terminate their unwanted pregnancies beyond the legally permissible period.
 
 Although the Centre initiated the process to amend Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act in 2014, it is still waiting for cabinet approval before it can be introduced in Parliament. The proposed bill intends to extend the permis sible period for abortion from 20 weeks to 24 weeks if the pregnancy involves a substantial risk to the mother or the child. The amendment also proposes removing any time limit for abor tion in cases of substantial foetal abnormalities.
 
 The court earlier observed the present law must be “stretched to make it meaningful“ by allowing abortion beyond 20 weeks.
 
