PANJIM: The government has re-notified the scheme for providing counselling sessions to secondary and higher secondary students of government and aided schools in the state.

 Keeping students’ emotional and   in mind, the government will recruit 50 additional counsellors for secondary schools and 15 additional supervisors for   for the academic year 2017-18. 
 
 During 2014-15, 2015-16 and 2016-17, the   ( ) had deployed 40 counsellors and 11 supervisors for 191 high schools and 51 higher secondary schools.
 
 Following its success and demand from other schools for counsellors, GEDC will ensure that counsellors are able to reach all the secondary and higher secondary schools in the state.
 
 The counsellors and supervisors have identified 27 types of issues that students are coping, including nutritional issues, sexual harassment, relationship problems and not receiving enough attention from parents among others, said GEDC chairman Kanta Patnekar, adding that counsellors have reached out to 56,000 students in the state. 
 
 Weekly meetings are conducted where all counsellors provide feedback to their respective taluka supervisors and monthly reviews are held with the counselling cell, headed by Dr Pundalik Pai Kakode.
 
 Based on these reports nd depending on how grave the situation is, the counselling cell can also contact parents of students for additional support. The counsellors have also been instructed to maintain confidentiality.
 
 All counsellors must have a post-graduation degree in clinical or counselling psychology, MSW in medical and psychiatric social work or a regular graduation in psychology (six units), social work, home science from a UGC-recognized college and diploma in guidance counselling from a recognized institution with a minimum one year experience in working with adolescents. 
 
 The selection committee is headed by Mumbai-based leading psychiatrist Dr Harish Shetty. 
 
 Patnekar says counsellors will visit each school at least twice a week and have requested that schools provide them with a room from where they can function . 
 
 “Goa is the first state to appoint counsellors in its schools,” Patnekar told TOI.
 
