LUCKNOW: The Lucknow module of the   (IS) terror group, which allegedly carried out the   on March 7, had Muslim scholars from Shia, Barelvi and Deobandi sects on their hit list. These revelations have been made in the chargesheet against members of the module submitted by   (NIA) before a Lucknow court on August 31. 

  TOI is in possession of a copy of the chargesheet in which the names of two senior clerics, who were on the hit list, have been blacked out for security reasons. While seven members of the module were arrested after the blast, one Saifullah was killed in an encounter on March 8. 
 
 NIA has attached with the chargesheet a hand-written note recovered from the hideout of the IS members in Thakurganj in Lucknow where Saifullah was killed.
 
 “Investigation has established that the accused IS persons conspired to carry out terrorist activities in India and planned for targetting Muslim scholars of other sects, Shia, Barelvi, Deobandi, within India,” says the chargesheet. The chargesheet also reveals the module had several Sufi shrines, including   in Barabanki, on its target. NIA said the module religiously followed the Wahabi doctrine of Sunni Islam that regards Muslims who do not agree with its interpretations as infidels or apostates. “The material recovered from their possession is not just sophisticated arms and ammunition or explosive substances. There are videos, photographs, literature and discourse recordings that suggest how badly they wanted to take on the scholars of the community who opposed the idea of Caliphate,” said an NIA officer. 
 
 The chargesheet hints that the module, led by Atif Muzaffar, had frequent arguments with scholars at its programme called Darsh in Kanpur. “Investigation has established that accused   used to pose provocative questions on IS, jihad and Hizrat (migration) to the speakers... There were arguments between Muzaffar and the scholars, including one Intezar Ali, on the topic of jihad, suicide bombing, Sharia and the Caliphate,” it says. 
 
 
