NOIDA: The   on the   caught on CCTV cameras on Sunday has brought to fore the ignorance of the team manning the traffic management centre which is responsible for monitoring all movements captured in the 93 high-tech cameras installed on the e-way. 

  While the surveillance of the expressway is under a private company, Efkon India, which coordinates with the  's traffic cell, the latter said they have handed over the work of the TMC to SP (traffic). 
 
 The cameras work under the highway traffic management system (HTMS) which are designed to capture images of vehicles moving at more than 100kmph.
 
  However, police are yet to lodge any complaint in the matter. Horse races are usually done for betting purposes and the same could be behind Sunday's incident too. 
 
  At least five bikers could be seen surrounding one of the horses with one of them capturing a video of the same while another apparently encouraging the racer. "The employees on duty at 7.30am on Saturday did not inform about the incident to the seniors. They ignored it since the race did not cause any jam or hindrance to traffic," Upendra Singh, supervisor,control room, TMC said. 
 
 The involvement of two authorities in the management of the TMC is also proving a hindrance in proper and timely cognisance of security issues.
 
  While officials at the TMC said they report to the Noida Authority's traffic cell, the traffic cell said that its management has been handed over to the traffic police. At least 12 officials of the Efkon India company monitor the CCTV footages from the cameras on the TMC for 24 hours and a traffic constable is also present at any given time. Further, quick response teams including PCR vehicles, ambulances and cranes are also deployed to react in case of an accident on the expressway. 
 
 "We have handed over the management of the TMC to the traffic police a year back," Sandeep Chandra, incharge, Noida Traffic Cell, told TOI.
 
 SP (traffic) Anil Jha did not respond to queries.
 
  So far, only one biker cheering along the horse racers on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway on Sunday has been identified. An official of the company managing the traffic management centre (TMC) located in Sector 44 said that four or five bikers were with the racers. The officials handed over four bike numbers from the CCTV footage to the expressway police. 
 
 However, police said that only two of the numbers were clear to them.
 
