CHENNAI: In a bid to   in Centre-state relations and showcase  , chief minister   has directed his   not to criticize the   government at the Centre. With merger talks hitting a road block and civic polls round-the-corner, the two-month-old Edappadi government is bracing itself to get the Union government's backing on crucial issues like NEET, speeding up work on the proposed AIIMS-led hospital and sanctions for increased allocation of funds. 

 Reacting to reports about Edappadi's "no-criticism-against-Centre" directive, DMK working president M K Stalin said, "They are taking this stand because of possible action by I-T department and Enforcement Directorate and not with the good intention of getting projects for the people of Tamil Nadu." 
 
 A few senior ministers admitted to the need for working together with the Centre for sake of "the state's development". While refusing to react to the CM's diktat, municipal administration minister S P Velumani said the Centre's support was imperative for execution of schemes. 
 
 "The Centre's approval is required for external funding for the proposed desalination plants in Chennai, which we have been asking since Amma's days," he said. The Athikadavu-Avinashi drinking water supply scheme and drought assistance were awaiting Central clearance, he pointed out. 
 
 In the meantime, electricity minister P Thangamani on Wednesday chose the power ministers' conference in New Delhi to exert pressure on the Centre to speed up the finalization of bidding for Cheyyur Ultra Mega Power project. It has the option of using domestic coal to bring down cost of power. The minister is also seeking allocation of the entire 2000MW of power generated from the upcoming units 3 and 4 of Kudankulam nuclear reactor. 
 
 The Cauvery imbroglio and fishermen arrest continue to trouble the state. "But we are trying to be on the same page as the Centre and Edappadi's immediate response to removing the red siren from his official vehicle is one such gesture," said a senior minister. In a surprise move, Union information and broadcasting ministry recently granted Digitable Addressable System licence to TN Arasu Cable TV Corporation -- a first in the country for a state-run agency to get sanction. The long-pending demand of Jayalalithaa will enable the state utility to offer a bouquet of 100 channels through local cable operators.
 
