THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   will have a common user   (CUDCT) by the end of next month. The facility will come up at the domestic terminal of the airport.

 The airport authorities have completed the groundwork for the   at the old domestic building at the terminal. Now they are awaiting the arrival of an X-ray machine to complete the installation work. The X-ray machine worth Rs 45 lakh for the CUDCT is being brought from Mumbai.
 
 It was following the directives of the central government that Airport Authority of India (AAI) instructed to provide CUDCT at all airports.
 
 At present, two airlines – Indigo and Jet Airways – operate their flights from the domestic terminal.   and Jet Airways have their own terminal for domestic cargo service adjacent to the domestic terminal. At the international terminal, the air cargo operations are entrusted with the operating agency Kerala State Industrial Enterprises (KSIE).
 
 According to an official, though the operations of the CUDCT have not been reviewed, the airport expected good revenue.
 
 “We tried to outsource the X-ray machine, but did not get any response. So the AAI arranged the machine for cargo. Since space is available at the old domestic building, only the X-ray machine is required for CUDCT. We have informed the airliners about the CUDCT at domestic terminal and asked them to join the service. Presently, there is not much cargo service from the airport. But, we expect growth in air cargo after the completion of Vizhinjam seaport project,” said George G Tharakan, airport director.
 
 The common user cargo facility under a single roof will also benefit the domestic terminal area, which has remained underutilised since majority of flights now operate from international terminal. An airport operating control centre (AOCC) and emergency medical centre function at the old domestic building at the airport.
 
 Among the other   at the airport, the parallel taxi track has been constructed and the procedure for its safety assessment is in progress.
 
