 
• Global visionaries, thinkers and business leaders from 20 countries will congregate in New Delhi on March 27-28 
  • Andhra Pradesh as the official State Partner bets big on investments at   2017 
 
  New Delhi, India, March 2017: With historic addresses made at the last two years'   Summit on India's strategic roadmap, Hon'ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will once again be the star attraction at this year's Global Business Summit (GBS) presented by   and The Economic Times on March 27-28 in Delhi with Andhra Pradesh as the official state partner. It was at the first GBS in January 2015 that he had dared Indian business leaders to dream of a $20 trillion economy. And, at last year's edition of the event, he spelt out his elaborate vision for rebooting India. As India prepares itself for a new economic order after undergoing an economic overhaul, the Prime Minister is yet again expected to deliver a thought-provoking and inspirational address reinstating his vision of a 'new age India' amidst a dynamic global environment. 
 
  As India now has the opportunity to play a larger leadership role in Asia, and is emerging as the world's epicentre, the summit will gather thought leaders and visionaries from across the world to enable a captivating dialogue on solutions to pressing global economic issues and share best practices to resolve these concerns. Built around the theme 'Conquering Uncertainty, Discovering Opportunities', the two-day summit will host thoughtful discussions on issues relevant to India and the world as a whole – India's digital reforms, Post Trump America, Brexit fallout, fate of Eurozone, China slowdown and the steps needed to deal with surprises and shocks of 2017. 
 
  This year's summit has already garnered an enviable roster of global thought leaders and delegates including Dick Cheney, Former Vice President of the United States; Shane Smith, Co-founder and Chief Executive Officer, Vice Media and Lei Jun, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer &Founder, Xiaomi, Peter G Hall, Vice-President and Chief Economist - Export Development Canada; Vimal Shah, Chief Executive Officer – BIDCO (Africa); Marco Gloria, Chairman and CEO – GFB (Mexico); Benny Landa, an industry pioneer from Israel with over 800 patents to his credit; Avi Luvton – Director of Innovation Authority in Israel amongst many other leaders. 
 
  One of the key sessions will bring together Andy Xie, Renowned Chinese Economist and Arvind Subramanian, Chief Economic Adviser who will discuss the future of Asian economies in the wake of global changes. 
 
  Another anticipated session will be CEO's talk with Vanitha Narayanan, Chairman, IBM India; Amit Midha, President, Asia Pacific & Japan, Dell; Janmejaya Sinha, Chairman, BCG (Asia-Pacific); Guenter Butschek, CEO, Tata Motors and Vijay Shekhar Sharma, Founder, Paytm; who will expedite on one of the most discussed topics in the recent times – 'Navigating Digital Disruptions'. 
 
  Andhra Pradesh, being the official state partner, will have a large delegation to be led by Hon'ble Chief Minister Chandrababu Naidu who is expected to make strong pitches to global leaders and investors for bringing in investments in the state on the back of conducive business environment. 
 
  As with the last two years, this year's summit will also bring together a large contingent of delegates from across the globe, the who's who of the Indian political elite and industry thought leaders making it an even grander platform for rendezvous and thoughtful interactions. 
 
  
  
  
 
  Times Strategic Solutions Ltd., functional under the brand name ET Edge, is an Economic Times initiative founded to empower multiple industries and segments by sharing critical business knowledge through strategic conferences, summits, exhibitions and communities. Encompassing the Indian business vista, ET Edge strives to bring together visionaries and key leaders on its knowledge platforms to create social and business ecology conducive to the positive changes required by the industry. The main aim of this initiative is to channel global business intelligence through summits and conferences in overarching lectures, hands-on workshops, panels, roundtables, case studies, buyer- seller meets and more. 
 
  
 
  YES BANK, India's fifth largest private sector Bank with a pan India presence across all 29 states and 7 Union Territories of India, headquartered in the Lower Parel Innovation District (LPID) of Mumbai, is the outcome of the professional & entrepreneurial commitment of its Founder Rana Kapoor and its top management team, to establish a high quality, customer centric, service driven, private Indian Bank catering to the future businesses of India. YES BANK has adopted international best practices, the highest standards of service quality and operational excellence, and offers comprehensive banking and financial solutions to all its valued customers. Today, YES BANK has a widespread branch network of over 965 branches with 1770+ ATMs across India. 
 
 
  Media Contact:
  Amruta Ail, 9819945670, amruta.ail@timesgroup.com
  
  Press Release by ET Edge via Brandwire.in
 
