AHMEDABAD: Salil Shetty, the secretary-general of  , said on Monday that six human rights activists were killed in India last year. He said that 22 activists were killed across the world. Shetty, an alumnus of the Indian Institute of Management-Ahmedabad, was speaking at his alma mater on “Is the world falling apart, and what can we do about it.”

 Speaking to reporters after his presentation, Shetty said, “Over 300,000 cases of violence against women were reported in India. If you look at the attacks on dalits and adivasis, we have thousands and thousands of cases.” He went on to say: “Since April, more than 10 cases of minorities — Muslims — being battered or killed have been reported; these cases are linked to cow vigilantism.”
 
 Shetty said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had recently spoken up about cow vigilantism. “But it has taken a long time for him to speak up, which is a big concern for us,” Shetty said. “If you take the Junaid case, 20 people were involved but only one person was arrested. This created a sense of insecurity among minorities and tension in society.” 
 
 Shetty said among the G-20 leaders, only three were ready to take a stand against the violation of human rights: prime minister of Canada, Justin Trudeau; president of France, Emmanuel Macron; and Germany chancellor  . Shetty said that the world now has a new breed of leaders who are elected dictators. He said that these dictators first silenced the media and then started campaigning against dissent on social media. As for Kashmir, Shetty advocated the repeal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Acts, saying that it enables human right violations. “Over the past six months, hundreds —including women and children — have been detained,” he said. 
 
 “More than 90 people, mostly protesters, have been killed. It is true that security personnel are also dying,” Shetty said. “In the case of Farooq Dar, who was allegedly used as human shield, one cannot accept that a person was paraded for more than five hours in so many villages. By no international standard is that acceptable.” 
 
 
