Nagpur: Claimants are pouring in from remotest part of the country to take benefit of Chhatrapati Shivaji Shetkari Sanman Yojana — the state government’s farm loan waiver scheme. A farmer has to make an online application through the ‘Apley Sarkar’ portal of Maharashtra government.  As TOI could access the data fed in the portal, it was found that farmers from as far as Changlang in Arunachal Pradesh to Kanyakumari in down south have logged on at the waiver portal.  Applying for the waiver is a two-step process. First a registration has to be done on the portal on basis of which a final application for waiver is made. Data till early this week shows that out of over 88 lakh registrations, more than 54,000 are from places out of Maharashtra. If the applications to be done after that are counted, it is 10,400 out of over 44 lakh in all. Even as the ratio would be within 1% of total registrations or applications, no state has been left, where the applicant might not be based. A quick look at the list showed applications from Amethi (UP), The Dangs (Gujarat), Jind (Punjab) Allpuzha (Kerala), Jhunjhunu, (Rajashan) and even New Delhi.  Maharashtra has 35 districts but farmers from 251 places out of the state have also registered or applied for the waiver.  In many places, the numbers are only 1 per place or at the most 8 applications. But there are districts like Adilabad in neighbouring Telangna or Raigarh of Chattisgarh where numbers are in thousands. Like Raigarh in Chattisgarh, there is a similar sounding district in Maharashtra which is spelt Raigad. Over 36,000 registrations have come from Raigarh (Chattisgarh) and nearly 3000 from Raigad (Maharashtra). Earlier this week, state’s revenue minister Chandrakant Patil said as much as 10 lakh farm loan accounts are suspected to be fake as they lack several details and action would be take against them. Loans up to Rs1.5 lakh are fully waived under the scheme. For higher loans, the additional amount has to be repaid first. Farmers having made timely repayment would also get a cash incentive up to Rs25,000. Sources in the state’s cooperatives department, which is monitoring the process, say these can be persons having farmland in Maharashtra but living elsewhere. There is nothing illegal in it. The basic criterion is that the land must be held in Maharashtra. The data may be showing places outside Maharashtra because of the Aadhaar cards. Details of Aadhaar card have to be mentioned in the application. The individuals may have made their Aadhar cards at the place where they live currently which is reflected in the portal data Moreover, this is just the first step. Now, corresponding data will be obtained from the banks which will confirm that even the loan is in same person’s name. Suppose the person living elsewhere has leased out the land and the lessee has availed the credit, the waiver will not be available. “Apart from it, the person also has to fit in the long list criterion. The criterion deal with income levels so that only the needy farmers are benefited. There is a likelihood that many may be filtered on this count too,” said a source.