Recently, the   team won the National Volleyball Championship, after a gap of five years. 

 In conversation with   captain K S Ratheesh and the Best Player of the Tournament, Jerome Vinith C, about what worked for the team this time, and some memories from the tournament.
 It is often said that when Kerala players learn that their opponents in an upcoming match is the Railways team, they already feel half defeated. At the National Volleyball Championship this year, both the men’s and the women’s teams of Kerala had to face the defending champions, the Railways Team. While the Kerala women lost in the finals, the men’s team defeated the Railways and brought home the National Volleyball Championship for the fifth time, after 2011.
 
 “What paid off is the hard work which we put in this time, combined with the experience of the senior players, who were supported well by the juniors,” says Ratheesh, as you congratulate the team. The team that won the laurels interestingly had only a two-day camp to prepare for the national tournament, as the State Championship was held late this year. 
 
 Ratheesh says that despite this, what helped is that many experienced players were retained in the team selected for the nationals. “Coaches and selectors were criticised this time for not bringing in junior players to the team for the national championship. The reason was that we hardly had time for training or guidance. But, winning the championship proves that ultimately, their decision was right and the team selected had what it took to bring the cup home,” says Ratheesh.
 
 The men’s team trounced Indian Railways in a marathon five-setter; 25-17, 20-25, 26-24, 25-27, 15-9 this time. This is the same team that lost to Railways last year, Ratheesh says with a smile. He also recalls another wonderful memory from the tournament. “The semi-finals with Tamil Nadu was also special this time thanks to the contribution of Kerala’s player Jerome Vineeth, who hails from Tamil Nadu,” says Ratheesh. 
 
 He says, “Year before the last in Chennai, we had lost miserably to Tamil Nadu at the national championship and Jerome had to face it in front of many of his peers and coaches from the State. He left the stadium teary-eyed. This time, the same player was the Kerala team’s backbone in winning the semis against Tamil Nadu. Our joy knew no bounds, as we could defeat the same team, on the same ground and that Jerome himself could helm the victory of the team in that match. The whole team is proud of it and considers it one of the best memories in this tournament,” Ratheesh says. Meanwhile, Jerome, a man of few words, says, “Kerala has been treating me quite well ever since I started playing for the State. There hasn’t been any discrimination based on my being a Tamilian, and that has been a huge morale booster.”
 
 When the team faced Railways in the finals, the Kerala team was prepared thoroughly, studying every opponent player, says the captain. “The Railways almost had the same team that played last year, in this year’s tournament too. Last year we had lost to the Railways in the fifth set, and they also had a good understanding about our players. This time, all our coaches — Abdul Nazer K, Anil Kurian and Moideen Naina taught us about the Railway players. We had a thorough briefing before each of the matches about the players. Gaining a lead in the fifth set as we planned also worked in our favour,” he says.
 
