KOLKATA: Eight days after they beat a hasty retreat following intense agitation by villagers, a 500-strong police force dressed in riot-gear marched into Bhangar's strife torn villages on Wednesday morning. The cops also arrested CPI-ML (Red Star) activist   for instigating the stir against the power sub-station.

 While entering the area which had turned into a battle-zone just over a week ago, the police were careful enough to carry only non-lethal weapons. Chowdhury's arrest marks the first attempt by police to dig up the “outsider role“ which the state has been harping on after the sporadic clashes broke out. Chowdhury , a key leader of the 'Jami, Jibika, Bastutant ra o  ', is a Salt Lake resident.She has been a vocal advocate for the Bhangar protests and is believed to have played a key role in organizing the protesters into a cohesive voice.Police, however, refused to confirm or deny the development.
 
 On Wednesday , the police reached Bhangar after waiting in the fringes for over a week. All marching columns headed to the epicenter of the January 17 violence -the now-abandoned Powergrid's Rajarhat 400220 KV sub-sta tion at Tona. Their impressive gear -replete with body armours -notwithstanding, every marching column was led by a cop with a loud-hailer, urging people to “remain calm“ and shun “illegal activities.“ It was repeatedly said people had nothing to fear (from police) and they were there only to ensure peace.
 
 The police action was perhaps anticipated. After Rajathat-New Town MLA Sabyasachi Dutta and his party followers organized a peace rally breaking the dead-lock for the first time on Tuesday , frenetic activities followed. So on Wednesday morning, local shops which remained shut for the past week re-opened.The local school also opened.After a week, traffic also resumed normally on the Haroa Road.
 
 West Bengal DGP Surajit   said: “The state government has already said it will not do anything without taking people into confidence. Some elements have been trying to foment trouble. The locals have understood it. They are helping us to restore confidence.“ The only aberration in Wednesday's pitch-perfect script was a related development taking place in the HC.Sukur Ali Khan, whose son Mofizul died of alleged gunshot wounds on January 17, filed a petition seeking a probe into the death by an independent agency other than the state police. Khan claimed since the allegation of firing was against the Bengal police, the investigation should be done by an agency other than the state police or the CID, his counsel   said.
 
