The lingo used by the youngsters of a region never remains the same, changing drastically over the years. The same applies to Malayali ‘dudes’ too.

 While the elders blatantly criticise them for ‘spoiling the language’, the younger generation in Kerala ask them to take a chill pill, saying, “Welcome to our world of one-size-fits-all Manglish ‘text-speak’!”
 
  On our fifth birthday,   takes a look at the five popular ‘youthan’ catch phrases in Malayalam and theirvariations that have flourished and faded over the years.
 
 
 What Ghambeeram was for the youngsters of the 80s, became Adipoli in the millennium, and has now given way to Pwolich with a ‘w’ adding extra flavour to the word that denotes fabulous. The slang has different versions such as Kidu, Mass, Killer, Soooooper, Ugrogran and so on…
  Rashi Bash (Rashid Basheer) a youngster from Fort Kochi tells us, “It is not just super but soooooper! The effect is more as the number of ‘o’s increase. Same is the difference between Polichu and Pwolich.”
 
 
 
 Salute to the meme-fied world! The teens are now more into short forms and crisp communication! Yes, the elders call it laziness but the youthans don’t care!
 “It serves our purpose. We can communicate easily than with elaborate dialogues. When we say, “Bro nee muthanu…” it expresses all the love I have for my Changayi,” says Sha Mon (Shamil Muhammed) from Calicut.
  The word Sakhave which means comrade was the most used slang by the youngsters of Kerala from the pre-independence-era till the beginning of the 2010s. However, the word which suggested a friend who is a communist was later used for just any friend. The term then underwent different transformations and became  , Changayi, Buddy and Bro. The latest in the
 field is Saho.
 
 
 
  While a teen used to say Kolamayallo and Alambayallo to convey a totally messed up situation, the bros now use Scenanallo and Pani paali. “I remember my bros using Alamabayallo while talking to friends. Now we use different words in different contexts. If the situation is bad but okay-to-handle kind we say Scenanallo buddy, depending on the intensity of the situation, we use Kaboor scena, Flippanallo, Scene contra and Bro level maripoi, Aliya pani paali,” says Rashi Bash.
 
 
 
 Thanks to new-age films, there are many slangs that have become popular and which is now very commonly used by the Malayali youngsters across the world. “The Thomas Kutty vittoda inspired us to use code language which can be understood only by people of our age. So to escape from a scene, we tell each other, Scoot ayikko machane, Escape itto, Stand vitto illel sketch veezhum and so on,” says Sha Mon.
 
 
 
 Love has no language, they say, but the youth here beg to differ. “We have our own codes and words to express our ‘Lub’ to our Mwonchathi!” If their dads used to address their lover as Anuragini or Priyathame, the new age terms of endearment are   and Panjasaara.”
  “Love is a beautiful feeling and it should be expressed in our own way. We don’t mind a little Painkilitharam when it comes to addressing our love. What is sweeter than Panjasaara? Why not call my love sugar?” asks Rashi.
 
 
