KOLKATA: The   (FCAT) has finally given its nod to Milan Bhowmik’s   titled ‘1946 - Calcutta Killings’. The film, which was refused certification twice over by the local   (CBFC), landed at FCAT twice and also had its director threatening to commit suicide over censorship row, will be granted a UA certificate provided Bhowmik agrees to some changes. They include deletion of three objectionable dialogues and reduction of the duration of a scene involving the two corpses ‘to a flash’.

 However, controversy continued to shadow the film when on Monday, a private screening of the film at Uttam Mancha was cancelled at the last moment by Kolkata Police. “I had made the application on September 26 and on October 2, I was told that I needed cop permission. Why wasn’t I informed about this beforehand?” asked Bhowmik.
 
 Even if he had sought permission, it wouldn’t have been easy to get the nod since no screening of an uncertified film is allowed. Since Bhowmik’s film is yet to get a certificate, technically the administration has the right to stall the screening. “So many rules come up in case of my film. Why did noone stop the screening of the uncertified Amartya Sen documentary at Nandan?” asked Bhowmik.
 
 Meanwhile, Bhowmik has already approached the Kolkata CBFC with a letter agreeing to make all the four dialogue cuts and three dialogue deletions from the censor script including one on Nehru. Incidentally, FCAT has directed him to prominently display a disclaimer at the ‘beginning and after the interval accompanied by voiceover’. The disclaimer goes like: “The theme, story and picturisation of the movie ‘1946 Calcutta Killings’ is cast in the background of the call for ‘The Direct Action Day’ by the Muslim League and the events which followed, namely the riots in Kolkata and Bengal culminating in the partition of country. The numerous characters shown as also the relationship of young lovers from different communities depicted in the movie is fictional. The depiction of political leaders, characters and events is based on the director’s own understanding and perception. The director and producer neither claim nor can vouchsafe that the presentation and events have historical authenticity. This movie is a tribute to Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, who was an icon and national hero. His relentless attempt to establish brotherhood and harmony among different communities has also been noted in this movie.”
 
 Bhowmik agreed that a disclaimer which states that events depicted in the film have ‘historical authenticity’ is defeating. Said Bhowmik, “I have fought long enough in Kolkata, Mumbai and Delhi. How much more can I fight? I have accepted the FCAT’s suggestion.”
 
