GREATER NOIDA: An assistant professor of an engineering college, working as a   at a busy intersection in Greater Noida’s Sector Beta 2, was allegedly dragged on the bonnet of a Maruti Alto for around a kilometre when he tried to stop the car driving on the wrong side of the road on Wednesday.

 Kuldeep Malik’s ordeal ended only when another car driver heard his call for help and blocked the road by overtaking the white Alto. The accused driver then applied the brakes and Malik fell on the ground. He received bruises on his back, but escaped without critical injuries. The Alto owner has claimed her husband who was behind the wheel mistook Malik for a car snatcher as there were no cops at the crossing.
 
 The incident took place in the morning at Labour Chowk where 39-year-old Malik of ITS Engineering College, and Dhirendra Tyagi, assistant professor in GL Bajaj Institute of Technology and Management, were advising motorists against wrong-side driving, along with a group of students.
 
 As soon as they spotted the Alto on the wrong side of the road, Tyagi signalled the driver to stop the car. “Then I came in front of the car and asked the driver to follow traffic rules. There was a 30-year-old man and his two-year-old son in the car. But instead of stopping, the driver suddenly accelerated and tried to speed away. I jumped on the bonnet of the car and held the wipers for safety. I kept on requesting the driver to stop the car, but he did not listen,” Malik said.
 
 Malik hung on to the bonnet of the car for around five minutes and continued to cry out for help. “Another Maruti Alto going in the same direction heard my cries and managed to overtake the vehicle and block the road. The accused driver had no option but to stop and I fell on the ground. The accused driver then took a U-turn and sped away,” he said.
 
 Malik and others later went to Kasna police station to register a complaint. Interestingly, the car owner, Renu Bansal, a resident of Sector Beta 2, also reached there and told cops that her husband and their son were going to see a doctor when some “car snatchers” had blocked their way and jumped on the bonnet of her car. 
 
 Police said both the parties have filed complaints against each other. “We have advised Malik to consult local police before voluntarily regulating traffic in future. We are investigating both complaints,” said an official of Kasna police station.
 
