 
  A day after skipping a meeting called by Congress president   in Delhi to introduce presidential and vice- presidential picks Meira Kumar and   respectively to opposition parties, Bihar CM Nitish Kumar-led JD (U) on Monday announced its three senior functionaries would accompany Gandhi when he files his nomination on Tuesday.
  
  These functionaries are party’s secretary general K C Tyagi, former party president Sharad Yadav and party’s Bihar unit chief  .
  
  Though Nitish is sending emissaries to show support to the opposition in the vice-presidential election after supporting NDA’s presidential pick Ram Nath Kovind, sources said he was avoiding a one-to-one meeting with Sonia, who is reportedly trying to broker peace between warring JD (U) and RJD.
  
  The sources said Sonia was keen to meet Nitish on the sidelines of JD (U)’s national executive meeting scheduled to be held in Delhi on July 22 and 23. However, Nitish has postponed it to August 19.
  
  Though the Sonia-Nitish meet was not formally scheduled, the CM is learned to have told her when she called him to thank for support to Gandhi that he would meet her when he visited Delhi next.
  
  JD (U) functionaries claimed the executing meeting was postponed in view of the vice-presidential election scheduled for August 5. However, the sources said Nitish was against any mediation by the Congress for now as the RJD has refused to respond to his demand for an explanation on corruption charges against deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav.
  
  The CBI on July 7 conducted raids against RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s family, including son Tejashwi. The raids followed an FIR lodged by the central agency in connection with alleged transfer of three acres of land to the family by a hotelier in lieu of getting contracts for running two IRCTC hotels when Lalu was railway minister from 2004 to 2009.
  
  Tyagi said though efforts were being made by either side to ensure the survival of grand alliance, the RJD’s failure to respond to the demand for explanation remained a matter of concern. “We hope good sense would prevail and RJD would take a wise decision to end the JD (U)’s worries,” Tyagi told TOI.
  
  Tyagi asserted Nitish never sought resignation from Tejashwi, but the latter should have at least given an explanation to the CM on the corruption charges.
  
  “It was the deputy CM’s moral responsibility to brief the CM about the CBI raids. He has neither contradicted the allegations nor defended himself in front of Nitish,” Tyagi said.
  
  Speaking on the issue of vice-presidential election, Tyagi reiterated the JD (U)’s decision to support the NDA nominee Ram Nath Kovind in the presidential elections was a one-time affair. “We continue to be part of the opposition. The party skipped the meeting called by Sonia-ji on Sunday to escape embarrassment as we were not supporting Meira,” he said and added Gandhi was once the acting governor of Bihar and shared good relation with Nitish.
  
  Meanwhile, RJD sources said attempts were being made by senior party leaders as well as Congress to persuade Lalu for Tejashwi’s resignation, but he was against it on the ground that a mere FIR could not be a reason for resignation.
  
  JD (U) insiders, on the other hand, said Nitish wanted to exhaust all options before taking a final call on Tejashwi and the fate of grand alliance.
