NAGPUR: “Today’s youth is full of bright ideas that can help the government in giving good governance to people” — these were state chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’ words when he started CM’s   for cultivating young leaders.

 Youth — often seen as a driving force in politics, are expected to bring a fresh start at the political end. But when it comes to contesting elections, they become a disregarded lot for established parties.
 
 Out of 1,135 candidates standing in civic polls, only 10 fall in the age-group of 21-24 years. Around 80 candidates are aged between 25-30 years. Not having much presence in the election, the   are either choosing parties with little presence or contesting independently.
 
 Though many first-timers hold the grudge of not being entertained by national parties, they are happy going it alone and not keeping their personal beliefs at bay for party ideologies. “Youngsters are sick and tired of communal politics and corruption. Even if they jump into politics, they don’t have options as mainstream parties have a queue of people holding cash in hands for tickets,” says 27-year-old Bhushan Shriwas, who is contesting from ward no. 38.
 
 Bhushan, who calls himself a victim of corruption, chose to contest from a marginal party (Kendriya Janvikas Party). “In 2014, I started a road construction company and did work for Public Works Department. Soon, I realized I could not work without ‘oiling the system’,” he says.
 
 Since last year, he has stopped working for the department. Disillusioned by the system, he decided to be in it but without diluting his intentions. “My agenda won’t revolve around caste and religion. I am contesting against bigwigs from big parties but I know I can improve my ward,” says Bhushan.
 
 Not corruption but 31-year-old Sharon Dalgado, a contestant from ward no. 9, became a victim of nepotism. After working with a national party for two years, she filled in the form from the party. Working as a quality manager with a health care, Sharon has strong educational qualifications but was still not given a chance to contest. “This is when I decided to contest independently.”
 
 So what stops major parties from giving tickets to fresh faces? “The senior leaders probably feel threatened that the educated young lot will overshadow them,” says Sharon. Discouraging dynastic politics, she adds that fresh talent needs a good backing to survive. “They should be the face of major parties,” she adds.
 
 Bur rather than being in the forefront, youngsters have become more of ‘behind the scenes’ party workers. Says ward 26’s independent candidate Rahul Wasamwar — “Parties see youngsters as a good manpower for campaigning and doing the running around work. Since we don’t have strong financial assets, we don’t get ticket.” A student of BA, 21-year-old Rahul says his biggest agenda is to get rid of corruption. 
 
 This year’s youngest candidate Puneshwari Shahu (21), who is contesting from ward no. 4, chose to contest from  . “From the very beginning, I was clear of not being associated with big parties. I didn’t want to succumb to their ideologies. Political bigwigs can hardly relate with real problems faced by lower and middle classes as they are disconnected with public,” says Shahu. 
 
