Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has continued to neglect open plots covered with filth and rain water, leaving the citizens to face foul smell, mosquito menace and threat of insects. Similar is the situation of the abandoned public utility (PU) lands of the NMC and Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT).

 For the first time, the civic body had prepared draft of bylaws — Nagpur Municipal Corporation (dumping of garbage on open plots, collection and disposal regulations) Act, 2014. The proposed bylaws were seen as a ray of hope, comprising provisions to take stringent action against the owners of open plots and also officials for negligence.
 
 Unfortunately, the state government is sitting idle on the draft of bylaws for the last three years despite Devendra Fadnavis at the helm of the affairs.
 
 A visit to a few residential areas revealed the pathetic situation. There is a PU land of the NMC at Khamla near Hanuman Mandir. The land is guarded with a compound wall, but is encroached by a person whose house is situated in one of the corners. Besides, the person is also utilizing the PU land as cattle shed. The entire open space is filthy and has turned into nightmare for residents residing of the area and to those passing by.
 
 Another example is NIT’s PU land situated at Panchavati Nagar in ward No. , which is also guarded with a compound wall. The NIT’s badminton hall and NMC’s dispensary are also situated on the land.
 
 Sheikh Shahnawaz, a resident, told TOI that people including women and children are finding difficult to go to the dispensary. “Garbage and construction material are dumped in huge quantity on the PU land. Rain water has accumulated in all parts of the open space. Residents are facing severe problems due to foul smell and mosquitoes. We met NIT officials and requested them to visit the site but no one turned up,” he said.
 
 The situation at open plots in residential areas is worst. Outer areas, especially unauthorized layouts where open plots are situated in large numbers, are affected the most. All these open plots are covered with garbage, construction material and rain water turning them into breeding grounds for mosquitoes, insects and snakes. The situation will worsen after monsoon.
 
 Corporator Abha Pande said the NMC and government are to be blamed for the problem. “I am raising issues related to open plots in the general body meeting for the last five years. The NMC went on to prepare draft of bylaws in which provisions were made to register FIR against owners of open plots. Most unfortunate is the government not approving the bylaws,” she said.
 
 “The civic body is literally playing with the health of citizens. It could at least clean and spray bleaching powder on open plots, but is doing nothing,” she added.
 
 NMC assistant commissioners said directives will be given to the health department for initiating measures and also taking action against owners of open plots. “The biggest problem is to locate owners of such plots. It is very difficult for the NMC to clean and maintain private properties,” they said.
 
 
