MUMBAI: The   on Tuesday dismissed a Public interest litigation that wanted to defer implementation of   by a year. A bench of Justices V K Tahilramani and S K Shinde said it was "not inclined to interfere.''

 Over 6.5 million taxpayers have already migrated to   (GST) network the Centre had informed the high court on June 29 as it said, it would stick to it stuck to its July 1 implementation of the regime touted as being revolutionary.
 
 The government was responding to the PIL filed by a Mumbai activist who sought orders to defer implementation of GST by a year, to next April after proper preparation and rules in place. The HC heard submissions made by the petitioner retired KEM medical college professor Dr K S Pillai in person and additional solicitor general Anil Singh before reserving its orders in the matter on June 29 before finally dismissing the PIL.
 
 The lack of proper preparations in its forthcoming implementation next month may cause more “confusion and chaos in daily life needs especially for essential medicines, foods and other items,'' the PIL petitioner had said.’’ Its implementation from July 1, despite difficulties expressed by service ministries, would be premature, said the petitioner. "There have been instances where tax payers have not been given their provisional GST registration in time due to system errors. And assesses have been asked to wait. This is causing concern among tax payers and business house because without GST number they will not be able to raise an invoice for any business to be done. 
 
 Officers appointed for the GST registration are unable to answer queries sometimes and ought to be equipped with a proper immediate solution mechanism, is what some of the affected tax payers had said before the implementation began.
 
 But claiming its preparedness the Centre said GST seva kendras have been set up at every commissionerate, division and range. “A nodal officer’’ designated at these centres will answer all taxpayers’ queries, said Singh. The centre has trained 60,000 officers across states “in GST law”.
 
 Singh who had prepared a five page note, said that 30 states have passed the GST Act and “necessary rules have been framed.’ the centre demanded dismissal of the PIL and had said that “enabling provisions like identifying the proper officer, enabling registration provisions have been in effect from June 22.’’ It also said that rate of taxes have been notified and the Central Board of Excise and Customs has been disseminating information, holding workshops to educate tax payers and trade associations.
 
 The officers of Central Excise, Service Tax and States Valued Added Tax are implementing GST.
 
 Claiming that GST will reduce paperwork as interaction between the tax payer and department will cease, and there will be only virtual transaction. “The entire exercise is routed through an electronic platform,’’ said Singh. 
 
 While earlier multiple registrations were required, for central excise, service tax, Vat etc now only one registration would be needed the application for which must be made online.
 
