Chennai: R Kevin was spellbound as he watched planets revolve in perfect orbit around the sun in the model solar system.

  The Class V student, who was at a store inside the Periyar   and Technology Institute on Gandhi Mandapam Road, said with delight, “This project kit easily explains the solar system by showing the motion of planets around the sun.” Parents accompanying their wards also praised the innovative kits for helping to whet the interest of kids.
 
 The Ankidyne store offers products for schools and students across a wide gamut of disciplines, including physics, chemistry, biology, mathematics, geography and outdoor fitness equipment. P Divya of Ankidyne says, “It is very simple to use these kits which enable children to develop their creativity. We also help students do their science projects and have CDs containing lessons that are targeted at kids from pre-KG to Class XII.”
 
 She noted that the kits were available in several languages with both audio and visual presentations. “Apart from school students, we have CDs available for people applying for the NEET and TNPSC exams. We also provide teaching aids for teachers which help them turn an academic lecture into an interactive exercise that the kids enjoy.”
 
 The electromagnetic models and project kits explaining concepts like centrifugal force, conservation of energy or the phases of the moon help motivate students to constantly improve their scientific knowledge. Biology kits also are made more interesting with the use of human body models like eyes, lungs, digestive system and skin layers, instead of two-dimensional drawings, to explain body parts.
 
 “Using an interactive model is the ideal way to teach children how things work. Many children enjoy and tend to learn faster when such models are used. But there are also children, who enjoy and understand a subject by just reading texts,” said an IIT-M professor.
 
 Several institutions like DAV, St Bede’s, Saradha Vidyalaya and VSVN Polytechnic have introduced such creative methods. M Saranya, a parent, said these toys were reasonably priced and kept kids away from watching TV shows and playing with mobile games during holidays. The kits will stimulate and enhance children’s intellectual development from early childhood through high school, she added.
 
 
