BENGALURU/MUMBAI:   will hold a substantial stake in Paytm's newly spun off online marketplace business, setting the stage for a three-way battle between Amazon,   and the Chinese online behemoth in the country's hyper competitive e-commerce market. The Jack Ma-led company will hold almost 40% in   E-commerce, according to regulatory filings sourced from business research platfom Tofler.

 The shareholding is through Alibaba.com Singapore and   Singapore, while venture fund SAIF Partners and Paytm's founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma will own 30% and 20%, respectively. Ali baba.com Singapore and AliPay Singapore have picked up 3,89,955 shares in Paytm Ecommerce at Rs 10 per share, show the filings, made on February 1. Alibaba, Alipay and SAIF are the largest investors in Paytm's parent One97 Communications as well, and the ecommerce entity's shareholding is mirroring that post the business being hived off. Paytm's parent One97 recently approved the separation of its payments and commerce businesses in two entities.
 
 Paytm did not respond to TOI's queries till the time of going to press. An Alibaba spokesperson said in an emailed response, “India is an important emerging market with great potential and we are absolutely committed to developing it for the long term...While we are excited about addressing the market opportunity in India, we are not in a position to share any forward looking information with you at this moment.“
 
 Paytm's online marketplace is also looking to raise fresh funds of about $200 million and has held talks with external investors like Canada Pen sion Plan   Board (CPPIB) at an asking valuation of $1 billion, sources told TOI.The Noida-based firm has been actively engaged with CPPIB, which manages around $200 billion in pension fund assets, for this fund raise which may corner a part of the remaining 10% stake in the company , a person familiar with the goings-on said on condition of anonymity . “The company is also negotiating a deal with a southeast Asian investor for the financing round planned for the online commerce business,“ another source said. People in the know said this move is effectively Alibaba's entry into the cashguzzling Indian e-commerce sector even though the Chinese internet juggernaut doesn't own the venture completely .
 
 
