NAVI MUMBAI: Various mangrove conservation drives and security measures reportedly undertaken by the authorities seem to have failed to have any effect, as truckloads of debris have been dumped over the last few weeks inside the demarcated protected forest zone in the city. 

 While the authorities are busy figuring out the proprietorship of the area, the debris dumpers have blatantly ignored the signboards put up by the forest department declaring it as a prohibited area. 
 
 The area — stretching through sectors 2 and 4 of   to sectors 22, 23, 25 of Juinagar—encompasses dense  , wetlands apart from being a salt pan site previously. The green zone is adjacent to Railway Colony, off Palm Beach Road.
 
 A vast 3-4 acre patch, which has a gigantic iron gate installed at the entrance to the mangrove stretch, has already been covered with debris. If this was not enough, truckloads of decoration materials have found safe haven here inside the gate with shanties made for labourers. Moreover, the adjacent site has been encroached by a temple and nursery.
 
 Meanwhile, the area under the high tension line has also been encroached upon. 
 
 Two signboards, indicating that its a prohibited area and a protected mangrove forest, have been put up by the forest department. However, the mangrove cell of forest department denied its ownership saying that the signboards were wrongly installed.
 
 Encroachers are taking full advantage of the ongoing skirmishes among the agencies over jurisdiction limits of the land. “It appears to be a systematic way to reclaim a protected green patch. Agencies such as NMMC,   and the forest wing are responsible for this mess and they can’t deny responsibility. Action must be initiated against encroachers immediately,” said  , head of NGO Save Mangroves and Navi Mumbai Existence . 
 
 Apart from dumping waste, heavy machinery was being used to level the debris, killing mangroves brazenly, said locals. While green activists as well as nature lovers are furious about the open violation of laws, local residents are scared of imminent flooding. 
 
 “It’s the act of the land mafia who intend to grab the green patch by exploiting the inaction of the authorities,” said a local resident. 
 
 Makarand Ghodke, assistant conservator of forest, Mangrove Cell, said, “Though a lot of mangroves exist here we do not have ownership of this land as it belongs to Cidco. The forest boards were put up wrongly a few years ago. We checked the map and found that this is not forest land. We have made a survey and written to Cidco to do the needful.”
 
  Earlier, both Cidco and NMMC had demolished a tabela here last year after locals protested.
 
