CHANDIGARH: The new excise policy that proposes only one wholesaler for imported foreign liquor ( ) for whole of Haryana, has come under the scanner of the   and Haryana high court, which on Friday issued notice to the state government. The matter reached the HC in the wake of a petition filed by the   challenging the newly-amended clause 9.5 of L-1BF licence in the excise policy for the year 2017-18.

 According to the petitioner, the allotment of L-1BF license to a sole person would lead to escalation of prices of premium imported liquor brands, as he will only sell the liquor brands in which he gets maximum benefit, which would render them out of business.
 
 Vikram Jain, counsel for the petitioner association, told the HC that in the present excise policy for the year 2017-18 has introduced monopoly by prescribing that there will be a single L-1BF license in the state whose reserve price would be Rs 50 crore. There has been an unbelievable and unheard increase of 49,990% increase in fees from Rs 10 lakh.
 
 Earlier, there was a level playing field and an applicant could get a licence at Rs 10 lakh per annum but now just to promote monopoly and favour big liquor contractors/manufacturers, Rs 50 crore had been kept as the reserve price, Jain told the court.
 
 The counsel further explained that such exercise of having only a single L-1BF licensee in entire Haryana would lead to massive monopolization by the licencee as he would only import the liquor brands and would fix prices as per his whims. According to the counsel, a wine bottle, which cost Rs 20,000 by multiple L-1BF licencees at present, could be sold for more than Rs 50,000 in the next excise year for 2017-18 by the single L-1BF licencee.
 
 “Such introduction of a single L-1BF license, is not sustainable in the eyes of law and should be quashed immediately and the state of Haryana must switch back to the earlier provision of L-1BF License as per the 2016- 17 excise policy, which was a level playing field for everyone and the consumer was the king as per the earlier excise policy,” argued the petitioners.
 
 The state government has been asked to file response on petitioner's contentions by March 28.
 
 Key feature of new excise policy
 
 L-1BF license is a wholesale license for Imported Foreign Liquor (IFL), which authorizes a person to import IFL, including beer, from other countries and supply it to L-1, L-4, L- 5, L-12Cs and L-12Gs of the state. The excise policy has made the provision of only one license holders for wholesale of IFL in the state, thereby creating monopoly. The new policy was announced by excise and finance minister Captain Abhimanyu on March 5, with exorbitant hike in VAT, excise duty and license fee.
 
