NEW DELHI: Investigations by the income tax department have found that a large number of   have been manipulating and laundering unaccounted money post 
  of high denomination currency notes of Rs 1000 and Rs 500 on November 8.

 As the department’s findings suggest a general absence of requisite regulatory oversight over cooperative banks across the country, the government feels the need for a strong regulatory framework.
 
 An official said a cooperative bank in   in Delhi was investigated by the I-T department after information was received about alleged  .
 
 The bank’s senior officials and directors allegedly conspired and assisted in opening 1,200 benami accounts in which Rs 120 crore in unaccounted cash were deposited and Rs 3.2 crore in old banned currencies exchanged with new currency within weeks of  , circumventing the RBI regulations.
 
 In another investigation, by the  , it was found that a district cooperative bank in Mumbai reported Rs 1,400 crore in deposits post-demonetisation.
 
 After scrutiny of deposits, the agency was shocked to find that the bank received only Rs 900 crore in ‘deposits’. The remaining Rs 500 crore was merely an overstatement by the bank in its report submitted to RBI. This enabled the bank to continue to accept deposits in the banned currencies.
 
 The story is similar in several other cooperative banks. Thousands of them are under investigation by the I-T department, ED and CBI. While the I-T department will investigate transactions of all state cooperative banks,   has been asked to probe urban cooperative banks, which are more in number. The ED will look into the transactions of over 300 district cooperative banks.
 
 Many of the new accounts opened post demonetisation at these cooperative banks are suspected to be ‘benami’ accounts, while the beneficiaries are using entry operators to “legalise” the hoard of black money through circular transactions in multiple accounts in these banks, an official said.
 
 So far, the department has unearthed Rs 5343 crore unaccounted cash in 1156 surveys, searches and seizures. Now, the department is scrutinising bank deposits using various algorithms to catch those using various means like depositing money in small amounts of about Rs 2.5 lakh, declaring them as windfall income and cash in hand.
 
