NAGPUR: “More than 1700 special students have been admitted in 290 regular schools across the city. This feat was possible only due to the hard work of the members of the   Municipal Corporation ( ),” said Abhijeet Raut, coordinator,  . 

 He was speaking during ‘Aids and Appliance Distribution Camp’ held at Prabhodini Hall, Yashwant Stadium, Sitabuldi, on Tuesday.
 
 The camp was organized to provide   with free appliances and aids that would help them lead a normal life. It was organized in association with the ministry of social justice and empowerment (MSJE) and Bhagwan Mahaveer Viklang Sahayeta Samiti. MSJE provided aids including callipers, wheelchairs, MSIED Kit, cerebral palsy chairs, Braille kits worth Rs8 lakhs to more than 250 students, while the Samiti gave 50 tricycles to the children. 
 
 Mayor Nanda Jichkar was the chief guest. “Our duty is to look after differently abled not to look down on them,” she said, praising the work of the organizations. 
 
 The children who received the aids were screened by the authorities of the MSJE and members of Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan. Raut told TOI that the special children needed empathy and not sympathy. “I hope these children have a life which they can lead with independence, dignity and their head held high,” he said, emphasizing that he was not doing charity and dreams of a day where all the special children have proper education. “It is the children’s right to live and have a normal life, and have all the opportunities which any normal child of their age has,” he added, thanking the NMC officials for their support and his team of 23 trained teachers.
 
 But even with all these efforts, the organizers felt there was more to be done. Yogesh Lolusare, a blind teacher and a part of the team was of the opinion that youth should come forward and take efforts to make special kids feel more a part of the main stream society. “Also, parents should take the benefit of government schemes for these children,” he said. 
 
 Raut was of the opinion that government too needed to come up with more policies which are sensitive to the needs of different disabilities among children. 
 
 Parents were in full praise of the work of the organizations. Ravish Waghmare, a parent, said, “The officials are very friendly. Support comes not only in the way of financial aid, but also moral support.” Another parent Ravi Sawane added, “They are using different aids like extra curricular activities to help educate the children with learning disabilities. It helps our children feel included.” 
 
 Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar, Gulbat Singh, director, Composite Regional Centre (CRC), Nagpur, NMC education officer Farukh Khan were also present.
 
 (Reporting by Pravin Tewari)
 
