KOLKATA: Calcutta high court has reprimanded a Baruipur court for its “unfortunate surrender” to the administration.

 Justice Joymalya Bagchi made the observation while setting aside the Baruipur additional chief metropolitan magistrate’s (ACJM) order on March 6 extending the custody of Naxalite leader Sharmistha Chowdhury and   beyond 90 days. They have been charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The HC granted bail to both petitioners.
 
 Chowdhury and Thakur were arrested on January 25, 2017 following violence in  , South 24 Parganas, and sent to jail by the Baruipur court. On March 6, well before their statutory 90-day custody expired on April 25, police made a prayer before the court seeking extension of their detention to 180 days.
 
 Acting on the prayer of a police officer, ACJM Baruipur S Banerjee extended the custody period, flouting the statutory judicial procedure under the Criminal Procedure Code in which the public prosecutor has to make the prayer. In this case, the prayer for extension of custody was made by an investigating officer of the   (GR) office. Justice Bagchi had called for the records on July 24 after petitioners’ lawyers Bikash Bhattacharya and Jayanta Narayan Chatterjee drew the high court’s attention to the procedural lapse.
 
 “Seeking extension of custody by an investigating officer is illegal. A public prosecutor has to make the prayer under the law with an independent mind,” said Justice Bagchi. 
 
 The HC didn’t buy the argument of state advocate general Kishore Dutta, who pleaded with the court that the investigating officer did so with the public prosecutor’s consent. “The magistrate has hopelessly failed to apply his mind while extending the custody,” the judge said.
 
 Justice Bagchi also took exception to the ACJM’s dictating the extension order to a police officer. “It is painful to note such unfortunate surrender of a judicial officer to the administration,” the court observed. Justice Bagchi then set some guidelines for judicial officers, asking them to record orders strictly in terms of criminal rules. “Any judicial officer shall not take assistance of police officers, failing which they will have to face departmental proceedings,” the judge said.
 
 While granting bail to the petitioners, the court directed them against entering three police stations — Bhangar, Kashipur and Rajarhat, until further orders.
 
