KOLHAPUR: A survey of how many pages students actually use in an answersheet during semester exam has shown that more than 30%pages are left blank. 

 The  ,   ( ) had conducted this unique survey to find out the actual usage of the answersheets during the assessment of October 2016 examination.
 
 The survey showed that only 26.2 pages of an answersheet of 40 pages provided for the engineering course during the semester exam were used. While for the MA course, the rate of blank papers went up to 45%, with only 21.3 pages of the 40-page answersheet being used.
 
 In case of BA, BCom and BSc, an answersheet of 24 pages is provided during the semester exam. However, the survey showed that on an average 12.9, 14.5 and 14.2 pages were used for writing the exam in the respective exam by the students.
 
 University officials said the survey was done in order to find out the paper wastage in the semester exams and whether the number of pages in an answersheets can be minimised. 
 
 Mahesh  , director, board of examinations and evaluation, SUK told TOI that the survey not only highlights the writing skills of the students but also suggests measures that they need to adopt when it comes to examinations.
 
 “Students need to take basic precautions while writing a university paper. Leaving lot of spaces, writing more than what the question demands, bad handwriting are some of the examples, which can hamper their marks and eventually the performance in the exam,” he said.
 
 Kakade added that even though the university recycles the answersheets in order to reuse them, the cost can be lowered with appropriate number of pages for a course. He added that at present 24, 36 and 40 pages answer sheets are provided to the students, depending on the course.
 
 R V Gurav, professor at the department of botany in the SUK campus, said he is very well versed with the issues that the students face while writing the paper and hence he has prepared a presentation, which is showed to the students before exam. The presentation highlights the common mistakes that the students make while writing answers and how to avoid them.
 
 “Leaving first half page blank, writing more than needed, leaving margins on both sides of an answersheet, bad hand writing are some of the things students need to consider to improve their exam performance,” he said.
 
 Amit Vaidya, assistant professor, KIT college of Engineering, said students have this negative concept of if they write more they will score more marks.
 
 “Bad handwriting is what cuts down students marks. Sometimes, one has to literally assume what the student has written. At times, the student’s handwriting is completely illegible,” he said, adding that not writing in the actual sequence of questions is another issue that many teachers find tiresome.
 
 It has to be noted that the SUK stopped providing supplements for all the courses from the October 2016 examinations. Instead, the university increased the number of pages in an answersheet.
 
 The move, according to Kakade, was initiated to stop additional barcoding of the supplement, spending additional printing cost and copying-like incidents during the exams. 
 
