NAGPUR: “Without help from society, government alone can’t create change, the society too needs to change their vision when it comes to remark the governments efforts for development” said, Mukul Kanitkar, Joint Organizing Secretary of   at  ,  , Sitaburdi on Thursday.

 Delivering his lecture on ‘Arthasankalpa rajyacha, sankalpa vikasacha’ organized by Divisional Information Center of Maharashtra, Kanitkar further added, “Inclusive growth can’t be achieve by governmental efforts only. As a part of society it is our responsibility that every individual who includes in society should have better lifestyle by accessing them equal opportunity in employment, by skill developing and through education.” 
 
 Expressing his concern towards farmers Kanitkar said development for them can happen when we make them self sufficient so that they won’t need any loans for the process of production. 
 
 “New and better polices, focus on increasing development and making every individual competent is the silent feature of new budget” said Kanitkar. 
 
 “The youth of this country has a new belief that, the changes we see in the west, now we can create them in India too and with the help of campaigns like Start-up India, Make in India and Skill India, the present day youth has new confidence in them. .” Kanitkar said.
 
 “The process of inclusive growth, the changed and increasing acceptations of youth and administrative reforms are the only questions government has to focus on,” said Kanitkar, while expressing the drawbacks of the budget. 
 
 Prakash Dubey, member of   spoke on the issues of caste gap and farmer suicide. “We need to work on reducing the caste gap, the budget should also work for improving the farmers’ situation in the state, thus preventing further suicides.” 
 
  He further said that despite being the key factor to development in Maharashtra, Vidarbha never gets the funding it deserves, and all the factories and development is moving towards west Maharashtra only.” He added.
 
 Dubey also said, “We need to be informed of the provision for education in this budget as only good marks will decide your college. We need to compare the manifesto of political parties, both government and opposition to overview how much they delivered from what they have promised.”
 
 Radhakurshna Muli, director of Information and PR was also present to this programme. Anil Gadekar, District Information Officer compared the programme and also proposed the vote of thanks. 
 
 (Reporting by Shubham Nagdeve)
 
