Kolkata: At a time when the world is shocked at the   attacks in London and Sylhet, Kolkata took its reaction a step further. A group of city artists has got together to organize an anti-terror protest with   Chatterjee playing the lead role on stage.

 Though Chatterjee’s live performances are getting rarer these days — due to his advancing age and failing health — he just could not say no to this one. 
 
 On April 2, Chatterjee will recite poems on universal love and brotherhood and those against terror, chosen from the works of Tagore, Jibanananda Das and Shakti Chattopadhyay, to the more contemporary poets, such as Taslima Nasreen, Nabarun Bhattacharya and Srijato. The University Institute Hall, an age-old cauldron of protests and vetoes, has been selected as the venue.
 
 The programme, Holud Basante, is being organized by the Institute of Media and Marketing Communications (IMMC). Several other elocution veterans, such as Jagannath Basu and Partho Ghosh, may be seen sharing the stage with Chatterjee. 
 
 “Right from Tagore till more recently, Sunil Gangopadhyay, writing against terror and all forms of coercion have been the Bengali poets’ forte. Take Tagore’s ‘Char Adhyay’ for example, or Sunil Gangopadhyay’s poem that says, ‘tumi manush ke bhalobashona tobe desh ke bhalobasho ki kore’? I think this is a brilliant effort by IMMC and quite timely,” said Basu.
 
 Chatterjee sounded happy at being able to be part of the initiative. “I am choosing the poems carefully but I will definitely read Nabarun Bhattacharya’s ‘Jyotsnae Kara Rifle Kadhe Hatchhe’. It is so poignant that it sends shivers down one’s spine. When the world is torn by strife and terror, it is indeed time that we should join such efforts… albeit small in this vast terror-stricken world. I have always professed the importance of love in poems and will read some love poems as well,” said Chatterjee. He also mentioned that he avoided such highly emotional performance as they drained him and left him out of breath.
 
 The director of IMMC, Souvik Biswas, said, “We are trying to register our protest against terror and intolerance in our little way. Apart from recitation by the legends, we will also have an audio-drama.”
 
 
