Nagpur: Vice chancellor SP Kane on Wednesday told TOI that Nagpur Univesity would be setting up a grievances committee in two or three days. 

 The constitution of the committee, pending for over five months, is necessary since it offers recourse to teaching and non-teaching staff of affiliated colleges and NU’s teaching departments. The panel generally deals with issues related to promotions, placements or other on-job problems encountered by them.
 
 In the absence of the panel, not only were the cases piling up, but the aggrieved parties were also compelled to move the court.
 
 “The committee would be set up within two to three days. Recently, the management council authorized the   to appoint the law officer. So, additional charge will be given,” Kane said. He refused to divulge the name of official he would be assigning the role to.
 
 On the delay in setting up the panel, he said, “The decision was put on hold after the faculty grouping issue came up. Besides, the panel will comprise of a dean. Since the faculties were going to be regrouped, we knew the deans too would change.”
 
 The committee should have been constituted soon after the promulgation of the new universities Act on March 1, 2016. Taking note of the delay, former secretary of Nagpur University Teachers Union (NUTA) Anil Dhage and academician Ved Prakash Mishra requested the VC to immediately constitute the panel.
 
 In his letter, Mishra said, “Non-constitution of the said committee has created a void as a result of which grievances of the staff have remained unattended and continue to remain so.” The former chairman of the NU’s Advisory Board demanded that panel be set up within three days.
 
 Similarly, Dhage has cited Section 79 of the Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016 which provides for constitution of the committee.
 
 Dhage, in his letter to the VC, stated that due to the absence of a proper grievance redressal mechanism in NU the staff is compelled to approach the high court and requested to immediately constitute the committee in the interest of justice.
 
 “The delay in forming the committee can be understood since the university has others tasks to perform too like exams. There is also the fact that the senate elections are also right around the corner so it has to take care of that too,” said Dhage.
 
 (With inputs from Mohnish Nerlwar)
 
 
