With winter on its way out and the temperature rising, it is time for a change of scene when it comes to lounging and dining out. Instead of the same old indoor restaurants bound by four walls, it’s time you checked out some rooftop restaurants offering panoramic views of Kolkata. CT takes a closer look at such al fresco eateries across town to elevate your dining, drinking and senses. Read on to know what these restaurants have in store for you...

 
 USP: Revellers got a new joint to hang out when Ozora opened atop   mall. A strong, refreshing gust of wind welcomes you to the 20th floor terrace with the beautiful city lights shining down below. The gorgeous sets of white tables and chairs look pretty, illuminated by crystal lights on the ceiling. The 600 sq ft restaurant can accommodate 400 people. The pool and lounge area is a special attraction. While they play jazz predominantly, a wide range of music is played to keep your feet tapping.
 Signature items: Ozora offers a delicious range of cocktails. For those who enjoy whiskey, a special hot and spicy brew mixed with other beverages is a must-try. In the food department, the kitchen churns out postmodern Indian c uisine. Dal makhani tarts with mozzarella cheese infuse an Indian flavour to an essentially European dish. The paneer tikka risotto presents a blend of cultures as well as spices.
 
 
 
 USP: This 5,500 sq ft joint, atop a Ballygunge hotel, is Kolkata’s biggest al fresco eatery. Designed sophisticatedly, it commands 
 a 360-degree view of south Kolkata — which looks stunning 
 during the evening. It has a dance floor with an in-house DJ playing catchy tunes. 
 Signature items: In the drinks sections, their   Iced Tea and   75 are among the most-ordered cocktails. If you are hungry, you wouldn’t want to leave the place without sampling the grills and sizzlers. The assorted non-veg kebab platter is also very popular.
 
 
 USP: The first thing that you notice about this place is its decor. The floor is matted with a grass carpet — giving it the feel 
 of a classy and delightful rooftop garden. The milky white tables and chairs give 
 the eatery a calm and pleasant feeling. 
 The eatery mostly plays house music and hip hop, but guests can also request 
 for   tracks. Indoor board 
 games are provided as well to keep 
 all engaged.
 Signature items: Blood Over The Top and 
 The Great Expectation are two of their 
 signature mocktails. The thin-crust pizzas are the highlights of the menu along with other vegetarian and non-veg dishes.
 
 
 USP: This branch of Aqua Java on VIP Road offers a clear view of Kolkata’s very own ‘Big Ben’. Though the cafe entertains all who dive in, it mostly draws a family-oriented crowd. They play a wide selection of music in the background, but mostly, it’s the Bollywood hits that get the biggest nods.
 Signature items: The Kitkat shake and brownie java are all-time hits at this veggie joint. On their food menu, the honey-cajun potatoes along with fried rice and paneer manchurian are the best-
 sellers.
 
 
 USP: Kolkata’s only two-tier terrace cafe provides a 
 spectacular view of the south Kolkata skyline. The hot-tub 
 on the terrace tops the list of amenities. The mood is set by stimulating music, from hip hop 
 to EDM. 
 Signature items: A coconut rum-based cocktail, the Drunken Parrot, which is served in a pineapple, is a must-have. The chicken roulade and scampi gamberi are two of their specialty dishes. Post dinner, try a paan shake — which leaves a lingering, 
 fresh taste in the mouth.
 
 
 USP: The Black Sky Bar, on Robinson Street, jazzes up 
 its interiors with LEDs. The plush ambience with glass walls is unique to this rooftop restaurant. Sufi and English retro music welcome you to this fantasy-like world. They welcome youngsters as well as families who enjoy the night-club culture.
 Signature items: Besides the usual scotch and whiskey, the pub also offers shots of Jagermeister — a 
 drink preferred by 
 most. On the food menu, you are 
 guaranteed to love 
 the pizzas and 
 enchiladas.
 
 
 USP: This establishment is one of the oldest open rooftop restros in Kolkata. Its location in the   area makes it accessible to many. An 
 eclectic collection of music caters 
 to the usually upbeat mood of the 
 customers. The moody, dark and obscure lights make for a cozy setting.
 Signature items: The gin-based 
 Salty Dog is one of their signature drinks. And when your stomach is growling, order the hearty and 
 mouth-watering London mixed grill 
 to satisfy your meat cravings.
 
 
 USP: Located near Quest Mall, the Shack Lounge, with its wooden interiors, instantly grabs the attention of the customers. The soft and soothing lounge tracks add to the charm of the place. They also have a section where children can have a gala time playing video games and other board games.
 Signature items: The cafe offers dishes like pizzas, pastas, crepes, watermelon and feta salad and a popular Mexican platter. A cappuccino with lavazza beans comes as the perfect thirst-quencher.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
