BENGALURU: It's a repeat of, maybe even a sequel to, last year's Indian Premier League Eliminator. The two teams squaring off at the M Chinnaswamy stadium on Wednesday - one the defending champions, the other two-time title holders - will be determined to have the final say.

 Shut out in the chase by eventual champions  ,   will seek to go the distance in their bid for a third   crown in 10 seasons. The form book gives the David Warner-led Hyderabad side the edge. They have won three of their last five league encounters, while Kolkata have won just one of their previous five outings. But given the depth in  's side, they can challenge the best on their day.
 
 Interestingly, the fortunes of the sides have revolved around the form and performance of two Australian openers. In Warner - the leading run-getter of the season so far (604 runs) -   over the last two seasons have found a leader who walks the talk. He is an explosive opener who has been the cornerstone of their campaigns. Likewise, Chris Lynn - his shoulder injury now a distant memory - has been  's high-impact player, contributing 285 runs in five outings and striking at 186.27.
 
 The duo has often made a mockery of opposition bowling attacks with brutal hitting, especially in the power play. It'll be interesting to see which of the two will be the game-changer on Wednesday. That said, if the slump in form is a cause for concern for Kolkata, the VVS Laxman-mentored Hyderabad side will sweat over fitness issues.
 
 Injury-prone India pacer Ashish Nehra, - nursing a hamstring strain - has been ruled out of the rest of the tournament. "Ashish Nehra won't be fit for the remainder of the tournament," confirmed coach Tom Moody on the eve of the match. Afghan allrounder Mohammed Nabi, who was chosen over   for the crucial game against Gujarat Lions, is nursing a finger injury. The biggest concern for the title holders will be  , who injured his little finger while fielding against Mumbai Indians. Moody said: "Yuvraj will be undergoing a fitness test this evening. We will obviously give him the opportunity to prove his fitness."
 
 In a heartening sight for the Hyderabad camp, during the practice session in the evening, Yuvraj batted freely and even rolled his arm and bowled a few deliveries.
 
 While the batsmen have fired, the Hyderabad bowlers have kept the opposition on a tight leash.
 
 Led by Bhuvneshwar Kumar, the leading wicket-taker in the tournament, Hyderabad's attack has been in top form. The Afghan spin duo of Nabi and Rashid Khan have pitched in at crucial junctures, while young Indian pacers Siddharth Kaul and Mohammed Siraj have more than held their own.
 
 On the flip side, Hyderabad will have to add muscle to their middle order, which has failed to soak in the pressure when the top stars haven't clicked. The fielding is another issue the team management will have to look at, especially given that the KKR side is packed with big hitters and batsmen are fleet-footed between the wickets.
 
 Kolkata will go into the contest with the confidence of having set the strip on fire in their previous encounter at this venue. The lead pair of Sunil Narine and Lynn had taken the Royal Challengers Bangalore bowlers to the cleaners with their merciless clobbering, which saw them amass 106 runs in 37 balls. Add to that the form of Gambhir (454 runs) and local lads Manish Pandey (396 runs) and Robin Uthappa, and Kolkata have the resources to blunt Hyderabad's attack.
 
 Kolkata will be without the services of their most successful bowler of the season, Englishman Chris Woakes, who has left to prepare for the Champions Trophy. In his absence,   and Narine will be the key men Gambhir will turn to to trouble the red-hot Hyderabad top-order, with the wrist spin of Kuldeep Yadav and Piyush Chawla handy options on the Chinnaswamy surface.
 
 Amid strategizing and applying finishing touches to the knockout contest, both teams will hope for the fickle Bengaluru weather to hold, too.
 
