Nashikites are willing to   far and wide (read 30-40 kms) to express their love for their favourite dish —  . True connoisseurs of the   curry-and-pav combo can never stay away from what has now become a staple in all of  . But how far are Nashikites willing to go for that perfect savoury blend?

  While agri tourism is popular in the state, Nashik is embracing the latest trend of misal tourism where friends and families take long trips to nearby villages to enjoy a plate of misal while spending time in each other’s company. “On weekends I get many customers from Nashik. They start coming in from as early as 7 am. By noon our misal is over,” informs Sachin Bhor, one of the owners of a well-known missal joint in  .
 
  
 
 
  There are many villages near Nashik which serve misal that are truly worth dying for. These unheard joints from nearby villages such as Ghoti, Trimbakeshwar, Naitale and Saikheda, among others, always attract foodies from the city. “These joints serve best wada-rassa, bhaji and pavwada as well. I make it a point to visit at least two of these places during a month. In winter, the atmosphere is lovely, your appetite is built up and you always crave spicy  . It’s the best time to hit the road to find that perfect misal,” says Rajiv Mahabal, an amateur photographer, adding, “We leave the city early in the morning, wander in the country side and then hit one of the joint in the village. A second, perhaps even third, helping is a must.”
 
  
 
 
  Sensing Nashikites’ love for their all-time favourite snack, many misal resorts have come up in Nashik. “Everyone in my family loves misal, and it’s good to see that places, which offer the snack, are changing with time. We have some nice resorts near Nashik and though they serve only misal, they have a lot of other activities to entertain people,” says Smita Bhange, a housewife. “They have bullock-cart rides, camel rides, huge lawns where you can relax with family and selfie spots as well. Such resorts have everything to keep each family member busy, plus they are not even expensive. A family of five can enjoy a nice meal and spend entire day in just Rs 500,” she adds.
 
 
