LUDHIANA: A three-day awareness campaign ‘Jal Sutra,’ organized by the Department of Extension Education and Communication Management,   Agricultural University (PAU), concluded in the village Ran Singh Wala, Faridkot. The campaign was held under the Department of Science and Technology, New Delhi, sponsored project “Social marketing of water saving technologies to mitigate the effects of climate change.”The campaign started with the street play and the rally in the village followed by a training programme. Around 120 students of Government School, Ran Singh Wala,  , participated in the rally and recited slogans on water saving. Besides, a street play was enacted by the first year students of the College of Home Science,  , at various public places in the village.

 Preeti Sharma, Principal Investigator of the project, delivered a lecture on "Judicious use of water at household level" which was followed by a video show on "Water saving technologies at agricultural and household level." Later, she thanked different departments, village organizations and participants for their cooperation in making the campaign a huge success. Samanpreet Kaur, Assistant Research Engineer, discussed the status of groundwater resources in Punjab. Pardeep Kumar Goyal, District Extension Specialist (Senior Most), Farm Advisory Service Centre, Faridkot, discussed various water saving technologies in different crops and emphasized upon the importance of small duration varieties of paddy.
 
 Amina Raheja, Assistant Research Engineer, highlighted the importance of rainwater harvesting system and other water recharging techniques. Karanjeet Singh, Block Development Officer, Faridkot, motivated the farmers to adopt PAU recommended practices for more profit and saving water in Punjab. He also emphasized on the importance of farm literature, published by PAU. Earlier, around 100 farmers and farm women attended the training programme which concluded with the distribution of water literacy kit among all the trainees. Dual button flush tanks were also distributed for demonstration purpose at community level.
 
