HYDERABAD: Riders in Hyderabad are among the most forgetful in the country, shows an index published by the ride sharing company, Uber. The country's IT capital Bengaluru tops this 'most forgetful city' list, followed by New Delhi, Mumbai and mana sheher.

 It's findings show over 2,900 cases of lost items -approximately 10 per cent of which was reported during the week December 19 -25, 2016 — have been recorded in Hyderabad alone. And what has city riders lost the most? hats caps, the Uber report states.
 
 According to the index, which lists out the most frequently 'lost and found' items in Uber taxis in India, phones and rings top the charts along with chargers and sunglasses.There is another interesting find: of 'unique' items that riders leave behind in their cabs. This ranges from a cheque worth Rs 15 lakh to even puppies! The index has been released along with a step-by-step guide that riders can use to claim a lost item. Apart from the option of using the Uber app to report a lost item and contact the driver in order to arrive at a mutually convenient time and place for the return of the item, riders also have the option of using the `in-app support', it suggests. In that case the   will step in to help the rider.
 
 “Everyone has experienced that moment of panic when you realise you forgot a personal item on a plane, bus, train, and in many cases, your Uber. To acknowledge Uber's most forgetful riders, and to prepare for Mercury falling into retrograde in just over a week, we've created 'The Uber Lost and Found Index'. Through this data and rider-insight-backed index, we want to bring the riders attention to the options available to them in case they lose something in an Uber, in a fun and playful manner,“ said Christian Freese, general manager, Bengaluru, Uber India.
 
 The data collected by the   through 2016, shows how New Year's Eve, unsurprisingly, was one of the days that riders across the country claimed to have left behind the most number of personal items in their Uber taxis. Additionally, November and December are the months in which   across the country were most 'forgetful', says the index, which has ranked Kolkata as the fifth `most forgetful' city in the country .
 
