Panaji: Goa administrative tribunal has issued notice to respondents in election petitions filed by former Calangute sarpanch, Joseph Sequeira and six others, alleging arbitrariness and manipulation in the process of delimitation and reservation of wards in the recently held panchayat polls. The winning candidates, including sarpanch Anthony Menezes, election officials in charge of Calangute panchayat polls, director of panchayat department have been named as respondents.  The petitioners have prayed that the court call for records related to the pre-poll process from the concerned authorities and declare the elections null and void due to various shortcomings. The petitioners alleged that connivance between his arch rival and local MLA, Michael Lobo with government officials materially affected the election result of all 11 wards. They alleged that election officials and panchayat department had failed to comply with the law in issuing a public notice for a hearing before delimitation of panchayat wards. This and the requirement of inviting objections to the ward delimitation and transferring voters to other wards was not complied with as laid down by Supreme Court and High Court of Bombay at Goa in separate judgments. A representation to authorities by petitioner and others dated April 28, 2017 did not receive any response. The geographical contiguity has not been maintained while the proportion of voters indicates significant variation in terms of numbers in various wards. Sequeira, in his petition, alleged that his ward (no 6) was illegally declared as reserved for other backward classes (OBC) to obstruct his poll plans. As per the rotation, ward no 9 and 11, or any other ward barring 6, should have been reserved, as in previous 2012 polls, ward no 8 and 10 were reserved for OBCs. Though there are more OBC voters in ward no 11, ward 6 was reserved in violation of section 7 of Goa Panchayat Raj Act, which lays down population criteria and rotation as basis for ward reservation. The ward reservation was also made at the eleventh hour after declaration of panchayat polls, without notice and opportunity to file objections or be heard in the matter. The petitioner alleged that his rival along with local MLA had committed corrupt practice by circulating pamphlets regarding the election without the publisher’s name, as required under the rules.