BENGALURU: Kaggalipura police, who are investigating the  , a  , Jayanagar, said on Wednesday that  ,   who had taken the boys on the trip, was not at the spot when the tragedy occurred.

 Vishwas, the elder son of autorickshaw driver Govindaraju and Sunanda, was among 25 NCC cadets who were on a trekking trip to Ravagondhu Betta in Kanakapura taluk of Ramanagara district. He drowned in a 300-year-old kalyani (a stepped tank) on Sunday . Girisha had accompanied the students to Ramanagara. “We are sure Girisha had gone to the trekking spot with the students, but have no proof to show he was present when the mishap happened. Also, he did not appear while other students alerted locals, saying their classmate is missing. We don't think Girisha was among those who returned to the pond in search of Vishwas,“ police said.
 
 Though police did not categorically attribute negligence on part of the teacher, they indicated that his absence will be probed.
 
 They said Vishwas' parents, who have already alleged it was negligence that cost their son's life, will meet senior police officials in Ramanagara on Thursday .
 Confirming the development, an official said they have asked the parents to visit them on Thursday as the mother had repeatedly been calling police. “They wanted to know whether Girisha, who was supposed to accompany students, was present near the pond or not,“ the official said, adding they have been informed about the preliminary probe findings.
 
 
 
 
 Even as the probe is on, Col K B Jairaj from the NCC directorate of Karnataka and Goa, in an official statement, said: “...We would like to clarify that the unfortunate event had nothing to do with NCC activities.He was part of a group of students who were taken out by their professor on a purely private activity .They were not part of any organized NCC event.“
 
 The statement further reads that the NCC ensures all safety and security mechanisms are in place and that any activity undertaken by the directorate is meticulously planned, systematically monitored and precisely executed.
 
 “In the said event, the NCC authorities were never aware of any activity for their cadets being undertaken by the college or the said professor. We have ordered an inquiry to investigate into the matter.This action has been taken to ensure that such unfortunate incidents do not repeat anywhere in the future,“ the statement read. the statement read.
 
 
 
 On reports that the ambulance driver demanded money to transport the body , police said they are open to filing a case. “We can initiate legal action only if they give it in writing,“ Kaggalipura police said.
 
 
