Thane: The Thane police on Friday submitted the fourth chargesheet in the Rs 2,000-crore drug bust case in which they have detailed the roles of former   actor   and her husband and alleged international drug lord Vicky   as well as listed crucial evidence against them. 

 The chargesheet runs into nearly 2,500 pages and was submitted in the special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court of HM Patwardhan. 
 
 The chargesheet has a detailed account and evidence of Kulkarni's presence at meetings held in Kenya, Dubai and a few other places. 
 
 Assistant police commissioner Bharat Shelke, who is the investigation officer, was assisted by a team of the anti- narcotics cell in preparing the mammoth chargesheet. 
 
 The chargesheet also contains records of the conversations between Goswami and the other accused based in India to set up a facility in   to convert the ephedrine into methamphetamine. Ephedrine is illegally used to manufacture party drug methamphetamine or crystal meth.
 
 "The US Drug Enforcement Administration, too, has given certain evidence about the racket as even they have been tracking it for long. We have details about how the hawala money was transferred from other countries to India in parts," said a police officer. 
 
 Both prime accused,   and Goswami, were declared 'proclaimed offenders' by the sessions court here on June 5. Investigators sent proclamation notices to Kulkarni's residene in Mumbai and to Goswami's house in Ahmedabad.
 
 "Their properties could be sealed in the coming days in accordance with law," said the officer
 
 The crime branch had, on April 14, 2016, seized over 20 tonnes of ephedrine and 2.5 tonnes of acetic anhydride, from a pharmaceutical factory-Avon Life Sciences-in Solapur and other locations in Thane and Ahmedabad.
 
 Investigations led sleuths to the involvement of Vicky Goswami and Kenyan-based international drug mafia as well as Kulkarni.
 
 The crime branch has so far arrested 14 persons and named five persons as wanted accused, which includes Kulkarni and Goswami.
 
