NEW DELHI: Battling the perception that it is no longer the force it was on its home turf of Delhi, Aam Aadmi Party's bid to boost its national fortunes hangs on its score in the   and Goa polls.

 After a stunning success in the 2015 Delhi assembly elections,   is focusing on expanding beyond the capital, looking to assert itself as a significant challenger in what have been two-horse races.
 
 The state polls will also impact the atmospherics of Delhi's municipal elections due soon. Though civic polls often reflect local issues, AAP's show in Punjab and Goa will be a scene setter. A win in Punjab will boost AAP as it looks to arrest BJP's winning streak in municipal polls. With Delhi's civic polls appearing to be a mid-term referral that AAP feels confident of winning, expanding its footprint is critical for a party trying to cement its claim of being an alternative to Congress and BJP.
 
 Success will prompt AAP to claim that its attack on demonetisation ­­ as an “antipoor“ move meant to benefit friends of BJP ­­ was vindicated. The flip side will see AAP having to face a serious competitor for its base in slums and unauthorised colonies with BJP using “notebandi“ to appeal to the poor vote. AAP won its four   seats in Punjab riding a “protest“ vote against the Akali-BJP combine and dissatisfaction with Congress.Taking on BJP in Goa is more daunting. A minor show could mean that it may well evaporate after the elections.
 
 Party sources said the Goa and Punjab results were not likely to affect Delhi's municipal polls but do not deny that a win will generate a fa vourable wind. “In the Delhi corporation elections, AAP will be fighting on the basis of its two years in the state government. If people have not been satisfied with BJP and Congress, they won't be voted back. Punjab and Goa seem too far removed from Delhi to make any difference,“ a senior party member said.
 
 Yet, with opinion polls pointing to a close three-way match in Punjab, toppling Congress is important, particularly as AAP looks to overcome the confusion caused by Delhi deputy CM  's remark that voters should exercise their franchise as if   was the CM face. Failure to succeed in the light of perceived major anti-incumbency against SAD-BJP will hurt. Kejriwal clarified that the Punjab CM will be someone from the state, but some felt Sisodia's statement could have been to test waters.
 
 
