DEHRADUN: With the 2012 polls defeat still lingering on his mind, Bharatiya Janata Party’s warhorse and former Uttarakhand chief minister B C Khanduri is all set to play a vital role in the electioneering of his party candidate  , a prominent Congress rebel, who is locked in a fierce battle with his former colleague and sitting MLA health minister Surendra Singh Negi in the  .
 
  Negi shot into prominence after he defeated the then sitting MLA and chief minister Khanduri in a closely-contested battle in 2012. However, considering this election a golden opportunity to rout Negi, Khanduri has thrown his weight behind Rawat, who is contesting from the seat for the first time.
  
    strategists told TOI here that Khanduri would be campaigning in the state, especially in Kotdwar and other assembly segments of the Garhwal region, to avenge his 2012 defeat.
  
  Meanwhile, Khanduri has already started exhorting electorates “not to repeat the blunder that they had made in 2012” when the Congress formed a government in Uttarakhand.
  
  The constituency has over one lakh voters, including a big chunk of ex-servicemen settled in both urban and rural pockets. Keen political observers feel with the former chief minister throwing his weight behind Rawat and the Congress is battling with  , there is likelihood that the saffron party will be able to retain its lost glory in Kotdwar. The shoddy health infrastructure has become a talking point among people in the health minister’s constituency.
  
  Political observers, however, agree that fielding Shailendra Singh Rawat from the Yamkeshwar seat was a Congress’ masterstroke, killing two birds with one stone. Shailendra, a BJP rebel who has worked extensively in Kotdwar, has made the battle tough for Khanduri’s daughter Ritu Khanduri in Yamkeshwar, where he also holds clout; whereas in his pocket borough Kotdwar, he has potential to dent BJP’s prospect.
  
  Defending BJP’s strategy, Kamal Joshi, a Kotdwar resident, said, “A ticket to a Thakur candidate against Negi in Kotdwar will balance the caste equation. In a Thakur vs Thakur battle, voters tend to go for the person having cleaner image, and in such a situation, Khanduriji becomes a game changer.”
  
  In 2012, Negi had got 31,797 votes (51.19%) and Khanduri 27,174 (43.75%).
  
  However, as far as the poll-management is concerned, Rawat is ahead. He won the Lansdown seat twice defeating BJP’s Bharat Singh Rawat in 2002 and 2007. In 2012, Rawat changed his constituency to Ruderprayag and defeated BJP’s Matbar Singh Kandari.
  
  Udit Ghildiyal, a Dehradun-based political observer, pointed out that Negi was defeated in 2007 by Shailendra Singh Rawat, who was in the BJP at that time. “Before joining the Congress, Shailendra Rawat was working tirelessly in the region and expecting a ticket. Now, it is expected that he will throw his weight behind Negi, which could change the scenario,” added Ghildiyal.
