CHENNAI: Indicating there was no room for talks between the two rival   groups, former chief minister   on Friday said elections to the Tamil Nadu assembly was likely even before the civic polls. 

 "We believed chief minister  , but we were deceived. Anything can happen now and it won't be a surprise if elections to the assembly are held even before the local body elections. We must be prepared," said Panneerselvam, addressing cadres before launching his state-wide cadre contact programme. The meeting on the Kottivakkam YMCA ground in Chennai was organised by the east Kancheepuram unit of the AIADMK. 
 
 "The present regime is a 'benami' government and there has been no transparency either in its functioning or in the party faction managed by Palaniswami. The party remains in the hands of the family as   continues to be its general secretary and TTV Dhinakaran her deputy," said Panneerselvam. Even before OPS arrived at the venue, some of the faction's banners were removed by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami camp with the help of police. 
 
 Earlier, organisers of the meeting circulated forms for cadres to sign. "We want to collect as many signatures as possible supporting our faction and submit it to Election Commission in the AIADMK two-leaves symbol case. So far we have collected 2.5 lakh signatures. Our target is 65 lakh. Wherever OPS goes, we will collect signatures from cadres," former school education minister K Pandiarajan told TOI. 
 
 He said the forms will also request cadres to give their suggestions on a merger with the Sasikala faction. 
 
 Cadres started trooping in at 4pm but scurried for shade as the plastic chairs spread across the open ground were too hot to sit on. Rajya Sabha MP V Maitreyan made fervent appeals to cadres to be seated. "I have been standing on the dais from 3pm. But, none of you want to be seated," he said. Even this did not draw cadres out. They finally took their seats after sun down. 
 
 But the sweltering heat did not deter the entertainment troupes which danced to songs from MGR films and kept the cadres entertained.
 
 
