Mumbai: IRB  , India’s first infrastructure investment trust fund, is witnessing strong interest from large   (including Singapore’s  ), along with some of the large   (FPIs) and top domestic mutual fund houses in the country. Compared with its anchor offer of Rs 2,100 crore, the current demand for the fund’s unit is worth over Rs 8,500 crore, sources said. The anchor book will close on Tuesday.

 IRB InvIT’s IPO, through which the fund aims to raise about Rs 5,030 crore, will open on Wednesday and close on May 5. In the anchor part, under   rules, it has the leeway to allot up to 45% of the total offer. 
 
 InvITs are a new type of financial product that is being introduced in India, although they have been popular in several of the developed markets and also some of the Southeast Asian markets. In an InvIT, investors buy units of a fund that holds one or a basket of infrastructure projects and the money accrued from those projects are passed on to investors, after deducting costs of running those projects and related taxes. It’s a hybrid financial product in which unit holders bear the risks associated with infrastructure projects, which mirrors equity investments, but they also receive debt-like fixed returns.
 
 Sources said since IRB InvIT could generate yields of about 12% per annum. For FPIs this could become a very attractive source of income, with the final return of about 8%. For FPIs, there is a withholding tax of 5% on the return they generate from interest income in India. In addition, they incur currency hedging costs of up to 3% of their investment in dollar terms and also bear other expenses for investment management etc. All these costs add up to about 4% of the total investible funds. 
 
 “Compared to the low yields that most developed markets offer, this InvIT is offering them much higher rate of return. On top of that, in an environment of appreciating rupee, the returns could become even more attractive. And hence there is strong demand from foreign fund managers,” a market source said.
 
 As of now, foreign investors, banks, insurance companies, mutual funds and high-networth individuals are allowed to invest in InvITs. Domestic pension funds are yet to get the requisite nod to buy these products. The minimum ticket size for investing in the IRB InvIT IPO is Rs 10 lakh while after these units are listed the minimum value of a trade has to be worth Rs 5 lakh.
 
 
