GHAZIABAD: A woman was allegedly pushed around and intimidated late on Wednesday by five men who forcibly entered her house in   society in   after her dog scratched a child earlier in the day.

 The five assaulters included the child’s father, a member of the residents’ welfare association (RWA) and three acquaintances — all residents of the same society. An FIR was registered against the five men at the Vijaynagar police station on Thursday. Policemen from the   police post, who arrived after being informed, and neighbours of the 30-year-old woman said the RWA member was drunk when he had trespassed on their house. Her husband was away at work at the time of the incident in Noida’s Sector 63. He returned home at 1am, earlier than the usual 5am, on being informed.
 
 According to the woman, the five men, all residents of the society, were angry about the scratching incident, though she and the mother of the girl who the dog had apparently bruised had spoken and “settled” the issue. 
 
 The woman told TOI the men hurled abuses at her, ransacked her house at 11pm and asked ber to leave the society, where she and her husband are living as tenants along with the woman’s sister. Her parents, who live in Kolkata, were with her at the time of the incident and helped mediate on her behalf with the five men.
 
 She said earlier in the day, the girl’s mother had calmed down after being shown the dog’s medical records (its vaccination details and anti-rabies documents) that she had insisted on seeing.
 
 “They barged into my house around 11pm, in spite of my stopping them several times, as my husband was on night shift. They were extremely abusive and rude,” the 30-year-old said.
 
 RWA president Sudhir Sinha said, “After the dispute was settled with the mother it was raked up again when the child’s father complained to us. That is why the RWA general secretary and four other residents went to the house. We admit we should have waited until morning.”
 
 On what led to the scratching incident, the woman said around 7.30pm, when she was walking her dog on a road on the society’s premises, two kids started playing with it. “I asked them to be cautious and not play, but one of the children did not pay heed and my dog also playfully jumped over her, inadvertently scratching the child’s forearm with his paw nail,” she said. The other child went away soon after my warning.
 
 Later, the girl’s mother called to confirm about the dog being vaccinated and asked for medical records proving the same. 
 
 In an audio evidence provided by the woman of a conversation between her husband and the girl’s mother, the latter is heard saying she was not interested in filing any complaint and the five men had taken it too far.
 
 When contacted by this correspondent, the child’s mother refused to make any comment.
 
 
