MUMBAI: Considering the mushrooming of stem cell clinics offering “cures” for conditions ranging from diabetes to autism across the country, the   ( ) and the   ( ) have come up with guidelines on who can conduct research in this sphere, when and how. Moreover, the draft, for the first time, provides guidelines for cutting-edge gene editing techniques.

 Giving a three-page list of conditions for which stem cells can be offered, the draft omits conditions such as motor neuron disease, mental retardation or muscular dystrophy. It makes it clear that doctors should stick to their specialty.
 
 “Doctors cannot criss-cross areas of specialisation,” said ICMR deputy director general Dr Geeta  . “At present, there are orthopaedic surgeons who offer so-called stem cell therapy for neurological problems or vice-versa. We are now clearly saying that only clinicians with subject domain can offer clinical trials.”
 
 The draft is available on the ICMR and DBT’s websites, and is open to public comments and concerns till July 31. “Stem cells have a lot of potential in disease management. Our last guidelines came out in 2013, but a lot has changed since then, making us feel the need to update our guidelines, ” ICMR director general Dr Soumya Swaminathan told TOI. On the mention of gene editing techniques, she said, “We want our researchers to take up work in this field. US researchers have been working on gene editing for cancer, HIV, etc, but we in India haven’t ... come to that point.”
 
 The guidelines mainly seek to curb malpractice. Dr Jotwani said stem cells are only offered as clinical trials in the West, but are offered as therapies in India. “We have received many complaints. Now on, all institutions carrying out research must register with the National Apex Committee for Stem Cell Research and Therapy.”
 
 A senior Mumbai doctor said, “An autologous stem cell extraction (using a person’s own stem cells) and processing doesn’t take the sort of money — almost Rs 10 lakh — being charged... This kind of exploitation should stop”.
 
 
