KANPUR/NEW DELHI: Three persons, including a Mumbai based former junior-level cricketer and a labourer, were arrested for their alleged involvement in betting on the   match between   and   at Green Park on Wednesday night.

 The three -arrested from the Landmark Hotel where both the teams had put up -were in touch with an Ajmer based bookie who had put heavy bets on the match.
 
 The Kanpur police, which received inputs from  's vigilance wing, has claimed the three accused received regular instructions from the bookie, Bunty, on WhatsApp. The bookie even wanted the three men to do whatever they can ­ including shifting the boundary rope and pouring acid on the pitch ­ to prevent Gujarat Lions from scoring. A police team has been sent to Ajmer to arrest Bunty.
 
 The three accused have been identified as Nayan Ramesh Shah, a former cricketer from Thane, Vikas Chauhan of Pukhrayan of Kanpur Dehat and Ramesh Kumar who works as flex installer for a local advertising company. The police also recovered Rs 4.90 lakh in cash, five mobile phones and several registers from the three men, who were putting up in room no. 1733, on the 17th floor of the hotel.
 
 The head of BCCI's anticorruption unit and former Delhi Police commissioner,  , said that his team was working on local leads for quite some time before executing Thursday's covert operation.
 
 "We had been tracking this case and every movement of these three men very closely. We didn't have a search warrant and that is why we took help from the Kanpur Police," Neeraj Kumar said while dismissing reports that the arrested persons had any links with IPL cricketers.
 
 During interrogation, Ramesh Kumar revealed that he was passing on information about the pitch to Nayan Ramesh Shah and Bunty. "He disclosed that he used to procure pictures of the pitch and inform Shah about its condition, based on which the latter used to play 'satta' on IPL matches," said the police.
 
 SSP Akash Kulhari said the police were also examining the CCTV footage of the hotel to check who all had come to meet them.
 
