LUCKNOW: Most ATMs, especially those of private banks, are running dry across the city because of short cash supply from the  . Some call it the after-effects of demonetisation while others are calling it mismanagement on the banks' part which is often leading to closure of ATMs in the city and the problem has only worsened in the new fiscal year.

 While a few banks claimed to be getting very little currency in the new fiscal, officials of nationalized banks, on conditions of anonymity , told TOI that for the past 15 days,   has not given any cash. A government bank manager said, “We are not getting any cash from RBI for the past two weeks because of short supply . We are managing funds in ATMs through the cash received from customers. If a good amount of cash flows in our bank, we are able to run ATMs for some time but when the cash inflow is weak, we have to keep the ATM shutters down.“
 
 Manager of one of the leading government banks in the city said that they were only receiving about 50% cash against their daily demand and have to manage the rest of the funds through daily transactions of banks.He said, “Usually, our ATMs in busy market areas remain functional throughout the day but these days we are able to feed only a little cash which can sustain for 3-4 hours. The rest of the time, it is unable to dispense cash.“
 
 All this leaves customers desperately hunting for a functional ATM.   of   said, “I had to deposit my daughter's school fee but wasn't able to find even a single working ATM in my locality although it has over eight ATMs around the area. I had to queue up at the bank to withdraw cash. How do banks expect private employees like us to take leave from office to queue up for withdrawing cash?“ Even banks have confirmed that the number of customers withdrawing cash from counters has increased by 40% in the month of May due to closure of ATMs. A cashier said, “Normally, the first 10 days of any month see heavy rush for cash withdrawal because salary is credited into accounts. Later, the demand slows down in the second and third week of the month. But in May, as against daily withdrawal of Rs 15-18 lakh, the demand has increased to Rs 20-25 lakh every day.“
 
