PUNE: Students of varsities eyeing a career in sports can now focus on tournaments fearlessly even in the examination time with the Maharashtra Universities   making a provision for them to attempt the exam post-engagements.

 The sportspersons would have to send an application to the controller of examination of the university concerned and submit required documents for availing the facility. The concession would be applicable to all universities and colleges in the state. The students applying for the relief should be participating in recognised state, national and international tournaments.
 
 A section in the act states, “The competent authority would be recommended to make alternative arrangements regarding examinations for students participating in inter-university or national or international sports, cultural competitions or NCC, NSS events during the relevant schedules of examinations as prescribed by ordinances.”
 
 Deepak Mane, director, board of studies,   (SPPU), said, “Students extremely serious about their career in sports would benefit from this. Many students drop out of colleges to focus on their sporting career and in case an exam is missed, not many try to attempt it again. This concession in the universities act will definitely prove to be a boon for sportspersons.”
 
 Mane said SPPU had made this provision at the university-level, but since it had now been incorporated in the act itself, more sportspersons and students participating in cultural programmes would benefit from the scheme, applicable to universities and colleges across the state.
 
 The students seeking the concession would have to get their applications approved by the university board of sports and the board of students before sending them to the examination department, said Mane. Upon scrutiny, the students would be allowed to take the exam later.
 
 Sameer Vaidya, a state-level tennis player, said, “The provision in the act for sportspersons and those participating in national and international art and culture events would definitely be of great help.”
 
