NAGPUR: The Ramnagar police have started investigation into the complaint filed by Zilla Parishad administration against   (ULSL), a company from Nagpur, for allegedly furnishing a fabricated quality report of the protein powder supplied by the company. 

 The company has denied the charges and maintained that some officers and competitors are trying to eliminate healthy competition by implicating the company. 
 
 The ZP women and children welfare department had summoned e-tenders for supply of protein powder. ULSL had quoted minimum amount, samples of its powder were sent to   (RPHL) at Nagpur for quality analysis. According to ZP officials, the department had received two quality analysis reports with separate inference. One stated that the sample had 23.94% protein content while the other stated that there was 32.10% protein content.
 
 When the ZP administration sought clarification, food analyst of RPHL RB Kurhade replied that he had only sent one report which stated that the powder had 23.94% protein content while the other report was fabricated and had his forged signature. 
 
 The ZP filed complaint against ULSL with Ramnagar police station. “The investigation officer has also got statement from the company. No FIR has been registered so far and mater is under investigation,” said PSO Sampat Chavan.
 
 Chavan claimed that ZP officials have based their report on some   visuals. The company in its statement to Ramnagar police has denied the charges. Company officials have claimed that they had furnished required documents, licences, samples and in-house reports of lab approved by FDA with tender bid. Later as per suggestion of ZP CEO, a test report by NABL accredited lab was also submitted.
 
 ULSL has maintained that it has no role in submission of fabricated report. The company was unaware about fabricated report until the matter was published in newspapers, the officials said and added that the company had submitted its reply to deputy CEO  . 
 
 Officials claimed that without conducting any investigation, deputy CEO Jolhe concluded that the second quality report was submitted by the ULSL. The company is going to file a police complaint in this regard, it stated. Jolhe could not be reached for his comment.
 
