Mangaluru: Plans are afoot to air-condition the government-run anganwadis and equip them with other modern learning facilities on a par with private kindergarten schools in order to attract more children.

 With help of CSR funds, Dakshina Kannada zilla panchayat plans to revamp a dozen anganwadis across the district with a new look and extra amenities. These proposed model anganwadis will have modern facilities on a par with city kindergartens, including child-friendly toilets, outdoor and indoor toys, theme painting, kitchen garden, rain water harvesting, air-conditioning, among others.
 
 “With help of CSR funds of Vijaya Bank, we installed a 1 tonne air-conditioner each in Kenchagudde anganwadi (Koraga colony) in Mangaluru taluk and Shamboor anganwadi in Bantwal taluk. They will be installed by Wednesday,” said Sundara Poojary, deputy director, department of women and child welfare. This is an initiative of M R Ravi, CEO, ZP to attract more kids to these centres, he said.
 
 Further, the ZP proposed a plan to MRPL to help construct 10 model anganwadis across the district. These anganwadis will have all modern facilities on a par with city kindergartens including child-friendly toilets, outdoor and indoor toys, theme painting, kitchen garden, store room, TV, RO water, AC, sports, vinyl flooring, rain water harvesting, cooking gas, compound wall, among others. “We have given a Rs 1.11 crore plan to MRPL,” added Sundara.
 
 New look for 418 anganwadis
 
 Under the Bala Snehi Programme, a state government plan, 418 anganwadi centres in Dakshina Kannada will have paintings, alphabets and numbers on its walls. Sundara Poojary said Rs 41.8 lakh will be utilised for it.
 
 Under this programme, anganwadi centres will be given a facelift at a cost of Rs 10,000 each. Accordingly, 88 anganwadi centres in Puttur, 67 in Bantwal, 40 in Vittal, 67 in Belthangady, 40 in Sullia, 94 in Mangaluru Rural and 17 in Mangaluru Urban will be given a facelift. The work on the paintings on the walls of the centres is nearing completion.
 
 In Dakshina Kannada disrict, there are 2,104 anganwadis across five taluks. Of these, 1,724 have their own buildings, 57 function in panchayat/community halls, 95 in government schools, 126 in Yuvaka/Yuvathi Mandala buildings. These 2,104 centres cater to 1,12,112 children between 1 year and 6 six years.
 
 
