PANAJI: The   is yet to comply with a number of directives of the   ( ) that are still pending.

 The fixed assets and depreciation register that the commission had directed the department to prepare last year is yet to be submitted to the commission. The department, in its latest petition before the commission, stated that the data collection of the fixed assets for the years 2013-14 and 2014-15 is on and that the mapping of the assets will be completed this year. 
 
 The energy audit reports that the commission had directed the department to submit before October last year are also in the process of being prepared. The department has told the commission that station metering, feeder metering and DTC metering are in progress, following which energy auditing will be initiated.
 
 A systematic study of manpower has also not been submitted to the commission. Last year the commission had issued directives that a report with specific focus on manpower rationalization be prepared by October 2016, failing which it would be constrained to take appropriate action against the department. “The issue of rationalization of manpower cannot be postponed indefinitely as it is not in the interest of consumers,” it had stated. Calling the department “extremely overstaffed”, the commission had directed it to analyze its employee strength, rationalize their requirement and reduce manpower costs. The commission pointed out that there was one employee for every 100 consumers as opposed to the all India average of one employee for every 2500 consumers.
 
 The department, in its latest petition before the JERC, has expressed its inability to create a separate bank account, stating that being a government department, under its present mechanism of accounting, revenue receipts are remitted in the government account under the appropriate head of account of the department. 
 
 The commission has in the past noted that at public hearings many consumers enquired about transparency and accountability of their money. The interest of consumers needs have to be safeguarded, the commission stated, suggesting that although the electricity department is a government department, a separate bank account must be created for all its expenditures and earnings as such an approach would help the department manage its business in a proper and accountable manner.
 
 
