HARIDWAR: Chief minister Harish Rawat filed his nomination from Haridwar (Rural) seat on Friday, but not before offering pooja at renowned   in Kankhal area and taking part in Ganga Arti at   in the morning.

  After the pooja, Rawat took out a ‘Swabhiman Yatra’ from Ranipur area. He covered several parts of the holy city, before reaching SDM office in Roshanabad for filing his nomination papers.
 
  Rawat started his day by offering prayers at   temple.
 
  The priest of the temple, Mahant Kishan Puri, told TOI: “Rawat has been coming to the temple for the past eight years. He offers prayers before Lord Shiva once in three of four months. Rawat stayed in the temple for about 15 minutes, did the rituals and then left.”
 
  From the temple, Rawat and his team went to Har-ki-Pauri, where he performed Ganga Arti. After the ritual, Rawat said that he was fighting against the forces which tried to pull down a democratically-elected government.
 
  “We are with the truth and fighting against the people who tried to pull down out a democratically-elected government. Locals of   know everything. When the time will come, they will teach a lesson to people who brought a bad name to the Himalayan state,” Rawat said at Har-ki-Pauri.
  The chief minister has already filed his nomination papers from Kichha seat of Udham Singh Nagar district on Wednesday.
 
  After filing the nominations, Rawat addressed a rally near  .
 
  “I respect Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) and other senior BJP leaders. But, they want to come to the power at any cost and are willing to stoop to any level possible. Their intentions came to the fore during the last year’s political turmoil,” the chief minister said.
 
  He exhorted people to help him teach BJP a lesson.
 
  “I request the people to stand with the truth and fight against people who have given the politics of turncoats to Uttarakhand. BJP has set a wrong example by trying to bring down a democratically-elected government and brought a bad name to the state,” added Rawat.
 
  In 2009, Rawat was elected as Lok Sabha member from Haridwar constituency by a margin of over one lakh votes.
