NAGPUR: After a delay of over one and a half months, the   finally released the much-awaited statutes for   of various authorities and statutory bodies of universities, like   (BOS),  . 

 Though the notification was issued on Wednesday, it was dispatched to various universities on Friday, insiders in Nagpur University said. The move has paved way for conducting elections, which were on hold since the last couple of years, at all 11 traditional universities.
 
 After the implementation of new ‘Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016’, the government asked all universities to send their respective statutes governing the elections, so that it could come out with a uniform statute. However, the process inordinately delayed the entire poll process. 
 
 Titled as ‘Maharashtra Public Universities (Procedure for Conduct of Elections to Various Authorities and Bodies of the University) Uniform Statute, 2017’, it was issued by Higher and Technical Education Department. Simultaneously, ‘Uniform Statute 2’ for registration of graduates and payment of fees and ‘Uniform Statute 3’ for removal of names from graduates register, were also issued. 
 
 Accordingly, the universities have been told to prominently display all information relating to elections. Universities will have to open a separate portal titled ‘Election Portal’ on official website. In addition to display on designated notice boards, all notifications, notices, electoral roll and other information and documents related elections, would have to be published on the portal.
 
 Like in previous Act, here too, the registrar would remain returning officer for the entire elections process. He would prepare the poll schedule and get it approved from the vice-chancellor. In case of doubt, the officer would decide validity/invalidity of a vote recorded and also declare the result of each election.
 
 The officer will also prepare separate electoral roll for collegium entitled to vote, with the names in alphabetical order beginning with surname-first name-middle name and addresses. He has been given powers to correct the electoral roll, if any omission or wrong entries are brought to his notice within five days from the publication date of electoral roll. 
 
 In case of any dispute, an appeal should be made to the VC within five days from the publication date of corrected electoral list and the VC’s decision would be binding on everyone.
 
 The new statute has retained the voting pattern on preferential basis, like in previous years. The polls would be conducted through ballot papers and each elector would have one transferable vote. Candidates securing equal to or greater than the quota vote would be declared as winner. 
 
 The voters are barred from carrying mobile phones, tablets or any other electronic communication gadgets in the polling compartment. The statute made it clear that candidates can’t raise objection if counting process entered the next round and no demand for recounting would be entertained after the final round.
 
