AURANGABAD: After a gap of nearly three years, Gyanvani, an educational   run by Indira Gandhi National Open University’s (IGNOU) will be making a comeback across the country.

 “The national Open University has renewed its agreement with the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, to resume operations of   radio,” said  , senior regional director IGNOU on Thursday.
 
 Gyanvani, whose FM waves have a radius of 100km, had gone off air as the contract had expired and could not get renewed due to certain administrative reasons.
 
 “It will be making a come back gradually, following a revival of contract with the ministry. The FM channel had received a lot of popularity and we hope to repeat the same success,” Parveez told TOI during his official tour to Aurangabad. 
 
 Stating that educational FM Radio was being run from nearly 250 cities across the country, he said the process of renewing local agreements at each of these places has been initiated. 
 
 IGNOU authorities were scheduled to meet with higher-ups from Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) to renew agreement for restart of Gyanvani.
 
 “We had a set up for Gyanvani at Bamu campus, while the actual transmission used to take place from All India Radio (AIR) station. The FM channel will be made operational shortly,” Parveez said.
 
 Before going off air, Gyanvani used to offer educational lessons for primary and secondary students, adults, technical and vocational courses among other knowledge streams. 
 
 Suhas Morale, immediate past director of student welfare at Bamu, said, “Listening to educational FM Radio of IGNOU was an effective way of learning for students and even teachers. Gyanvani in the past had also provided opportunity to students to work as content developers and casual announcers,” he said.
 
 Student activist Nikhil Athawale said, “Given the 100km range of FM radio station, it can be accessed by students from areas adjoining Aurangabad as well. Youth have special liking for private FM channel and Gyanvani can cash on this.”
 
 A team of around 14 casual announcers cum programme developers were associated with Gyanvani Aurangabad. The news of restarting of FM radio channel of IGNOU has excited many students.
 
 Bamu vice-chancellor B A Chopade could not be reached for his comments. 
 
