Coimbatore: Twenty-year-old Mohan* was busy cleaning a drain near the government hospital in the city with his bare hands, without wearing gloves, mask or boots. When he was questioned, he said that he had been employed by the corporation contractor to do the job. 

 Three kilometres away, 50-year-old Marimuthu* was also cleaning a drain with bare hands. He had been employed by the civic body to clean the drain overflowing with industry effluents and sewage from hospitals and commercial establishments.
 
 Sanitary workers, who clean drains, drainage manholes and engage in other sewage related work, are often not supplied with masks, gloves or boots. Civic officials neither visit the location nor inspect the work. 
 
 While sanitary workers employed by the civic body are supplied with safety gear, even if it is of low quality, these conservancy workers employed by contrators were never supplied with safety gears for such jobs.
 
 Marimuthu said he would often opt for construction work. “When I do not get any job, I opt for such work. But not even once have we been given any gloves or boots,” he said. When Mohan was questioned about the same, he said he was well aware of these norms. “But none of these companies provide us with any such safety gear. If we question them, we may not be given the job,” he said.
 
 On May 16, 2015, M Rajendiran, a sanitary worker who went to save his friend, drowned in a choke pit at Shashtri Maidhan in R S Puram due to the negligence of a government contractor who failed to close the pit. His family is yet to receive any compensation from the civic body. Similarly, activists claimed there were more than 50 such pending petitions. 
 
 “Whenever someone gets hurt or dies, the civic body blames the worker and escapes the blame. But whenever we have brought this to their notice, they have done nothing to ensure the worker’s safety,” said Selvakumar, a dalit activist.
 
 R Damodaran, district president of labourers’ rights movement attached to the All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU) said, “We have been continuously protesting for this. It is the civic body that should take action and ensure it does not happen. Most of the cleaning work should be done using machinery and in locations where it is impossible to use machines, they should ensure that safety gear is given to these workers.” 
 
 *Name changed
 
 
