NEW DELHI: As the debate over 
  taking up the matter, delving into past records of the comments of eminent Islamic scholars reveals that they had all weighed in with their criticism of the controversial practice.

 From recommending the ideal circumstances of divorce to clarifying the sharia stand on the subject, the experts were united in condemning its misuse.
 
 Terming 
  a sin,  , founder of Jamaat-e-Islami had said, “If people knew that triple divorce is superfluous and even a single talaq would dissolve the marriage, of course, leaving room for revocation during the next three months and remarriage thereafter, innumerable families could have been saved from disruption.” 
 
 Renowned graduate from Darul Uloom Deoband, Maulana Ashraf Ali Thanvi had recommended the Quranic method of talaq.
 
 “A man pronounces a revocable talaq. He reconciles and resumes cohabitation. A few years later under some provocation he pronounces a revocable talaq again. 
 
 On recovering from provocation he resumes cohabit-ation again. Now two talaqs are over. Thereafter whenever he pronounces a talaq it will be counted as the third talaq which will dissolve the marriage forthwith,” he said.
 
 Maulana Wahiduddin Khan, another noted scholar said a man uttering talaq to his wife three times in a row contravenes the sharia, which is a sin. 
 
 However, he explained that “if he was known to be in an emotionally overwrought state at the time, his act may be considered a mere absurdity arising from human weakness.
 
 His three utterances of the word ‘talaq’ may be taken as an expression of the intensity of his emotions and thus the equivalent of only one utterance.
 
 He is likely to be told that, having transgressed a sharia law, he must seek God’s forgiveness, must regard his three utterances as only one, and must take three months to arrive at his final decision.”
 
 Describing instant   as accidental, former president of  , Maulana Mujahidul Islam Qasmi, said it was an unfortunate act that should not happen. “If one talaq is given out of three, both parties will have time to reconsider.
 
 The meaning of triple talaq is that it is final talaq. Its misuse has destroyed many homes. Poor and weak women suffer the most,” he said.
 
