KOLKATA: In less than 10 days from now, two young mountaineers from West Bengal will be leaving for Spain to represent India in the Diploma International of Mountain Medicine (DiMM). 

 The month-long course is organized by the The Association for Investigation, Teaching, and Assistance in the Wilderness, Crossborder Cerdanya Hospital and the Chair of Mountain & Wilderness Medicine & Clinical Simulation, University of Girona, Puigcerdà, Spain.
 
 DiMM is attended by members of institutes like the International Climbing and Mountaineering Federation (UIAA), International Society for Mountain Medicine (ISMM) and International Commission in Alpine Rescue ( ) and the diploma awarded is recognized globally. Tapas Pal (28) and Abhishek Das (29) will not only attend the event but also give a lecture-cum-presentation on ‘Mountaineering and Adventure   of India’. While the organisers are sponsoring their stay in Spain, the Indian Mountaineering Foundation ( ) will take care of their travel costs.
 
 “This is the first time anybody from West Bengal has been selected to attend the prestigious event. We were selected after a tough challenge. We are certified first-aiders and participated in a sort of contest in the Gangotri-III region where our skills were tested. That event was organized by organisations like UIAA and IMF,” Pal, a resident of Sodepur in North 24 Parganas said.
 
 Pal is an engineering graduate but took up his hobby as a profession. Das, from Hind Motors in Hooghly, also wants to take up mountain medicine as a profession. “We wish to gain expertise in the field while going on expeditions. The diploma will be a big boost for us,” Pal added. Pal and Das have summitted several peaks over the last seven years. These include Gangotri-III, Rudragaira, two unnamed peaks and an attempt on Mt Kun. The two will be leaving for Spain via Mumbai on March 30 and return on April 29.
 
 According to the UIAA, DiMM complements the regular courses in mountain medicine in many countries and has become a widely respected qualification. Over the years, regulations have been updated to reflect developments in mountain medicine, internet communications and to ensure that high standards are maintained. Pal and Das will be attending the 17th edition of DiMM. There are courses for doctors as well as paramedics and nurses. Participants will have to qualify for the diploma during their stay.
 
 
