Hyderabad: Fate of over 100 students enrolled in the   programme in Dr BR Ambedkar Open University hangs in balance as the university abruptly discontinued the course after completion of the first semester exams. 

 The students had sought admissions in 2015 wherein they were selected based on an entrance test conducted in December, 2014. As per schedule, the programme should have been completed by January 2017. However, the programme was stalled in the middle, leaving the students ambiguous about their future. For Pratyusha Gadupu, completion of MBA was her ticket to a private job. However, even after two years, her struggle continues. “After releasing the first semester exam results, we expected that the classes for the second semester would soon begin. However, to our shock, we were told that the programme has been discontinued,” said Gadupu, a BTech graduate. 
 
 Like Gadupu, several students had paid Rs 12,500 of tuition fee for the first semester. The discontinuation of the course has left students agitated as many demand the BRAOU to refund their amount or resume classes for the programme. “Having an MBA degree was essential to seek a promotion in my present organisation. While the university had assured to refund our money at the beginning of 2017, the same has not been done, causing severe mental agony to those who lost their time and money like me,” said Venkanna Pulugujju, finance manager in a social enterprise, who has now joined another online MBA programme.
 
 For Vijay Kumar Goni, food and beverages lecturer at a Shamshabad-based institute, discontinuation of the programme was a bigger loss. “I shifted from Saudi Arabia only to pursue this programme in BRAOU. Not only did I leave my well-paying job but also lost on the precious time which I could have utilised to pursue better things in life,” said Goni. 
 
 Agreeing to the glitch, C Venkatiah, registrar of BRAOU told TOI that the decision to discontinue the course was taken following University Grants Commission’s (UGC) mandate. “Every year we have to seek approval for programmes from UGC. However, the UGC came up with a mandate that no programmes must be offered online. With the online MBA programme falling out of UGC’s purview, we were forced to discontinue it,” said Venkatiah. 
 
 To resolve the issue, the university has now come up with two solutions. “We will give an option to students to either convert themselves to the offline mode or take refund from the varsity. The respective department heads will soon issue letters to the students and seek their opinion on what they would like to do,” said Venkatiah.
 
 
