PUNE: Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited ( ) has   for the construction of nine   on the   corridor, which is a part of the   rail project. 

 This corridor is a part of the PCMC-Swargate route, which the corporation has taken up on a priority basis, and aims to complete by 2019. 
 
 Bids have been invited for construction of the stations (excluding viaduct), and bidders are expected to submit their tenders by June 13.
 
 Maha-Metro has carried out studies and surveys on the 10.5km stretch. The total length of route, till Swargate, is of 16.5km, and will have 14 stations. Nine of the stations, on the Pimpri-Range Hills corridor, will be elevated while the rest will be underground. 
 
 The route will go over the old Pune-Mumbai highway up to Dapodi wherefrom it will cross the river and railway tracks, and reach Range Hills.
 
 The estimated cost of construction of the nine stations is Rs449 crore. These stations are the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation, Sant Tukaramnagar, Bhosari, Kasarwadi, Phugewadi, Dapodi, Bopodi, Khadki and Range Hills. 
 
 PCMC has identified the locations for the stations. Being elevated stations, most would not require additional land, said officials.
 
 The work order for this section has already been issued, and work is expected to start in phases from Nashik Phata. Maha-Metro also said work on the route will not hamper daily traffic, and that steps are being taken to avoid any disruption. 
 
 The corporation has also invited bids to design the stations. 
 
 Brijesh Dixit, Maha-Metro managing director, said the stations will have world class facilities, and that the plan is to design them according to various themes. “Stations along the river, such as Pune Municipal Corporation, Sambhaji Park etc will have a river theme. Stations like Shaniwarwada, Pataleshwar and Nagar Road, located near heritage structures, will be developed on a heritage and history theme. Meanwhile, stations between Pimpri and Range Hills will be developed on an industrial theme, because of the large number of factories located on this belt,” Dixit said.
 
 Dixit said they have invited consultants of national and international repute to develop the stations. 
 
