Bollywood, more than being a trendsetter, is a trend follower. One hit movie, and you have a slew of similar films hitting the screens, until someone makes a different one. The filmmakers then follow in the steps of it, and the cycle continues. It’s the same story in every field of filmmaking be it film stories, songs or even dance. And with dance, it is hip-hop that has taken over the imagination of   filmmakers. Be it the slew of films based on dance, reality shows, online video platforms or even item numbers, hip-hop is the flavour of the season, while the traditional Bollywood dance has been kind of sidelined.
In a recent interview with Bombay Times, the lead singer of the popular band Porcupine Tree,  , too lamented the fact. Wilson, who is currently filming some videos for his upcoming album 'To The Bone', wanted to include Bollywood elements in one of the videos. He says, “Bollywood has become a part of Indian culture now. But when we approached dance companies in India, we were disappointed because it was all just hip-hop, and not the traditional Bollywood-style dance. And that is a bit sad, because it kills variety.” 
 
 
 
 Choreographer  , who has won three National Awards, agrees with Wilson’s assessment. She says, “Many people from abroad watch our movies for our colourful song and dance numbers. It is strange, because the traditional Bollywood dance is our strength. But our producers are blind. They only want to copy others and have forgotten our culture.”
 Even choreographer  , who has worked on films like 'Lagaan' (2001) and 'Jhankaar Beats' (2003), feels that Bollywood does have a confused identity. He reveals, “Bollywood borrows from dance forms popular at a given time. Earlier, we were around a decade behind. For example, ‘60s was about traditional folk dance, ‘70s was about disco dance and ‘80s was about pop. By the time we warmed up to the disco culture in India, it was already done and dusted abroad.”
 
 
 
 National award winning choreographer  , who has directed a wide range of dance sequences, makes an interesting point. She says, “No one is sure what we mean by ‘Bollywood dance.’ Earlier, it was all about traditional dance moves. Over a period of time, we borrowed influences and then made them our own. So, in the middle of a rock song, you hear an ethnic sound, you wonder what to do with it and you create a dance move around it. Meanwhile, the West has a different idea of Bollywood.” 
 
 
 
 The one thing which most choreographers agree on is that music defines the dance. Vaibhavi says, “Dance is essentially about reacting to music, and our music has changed. We are no longer listening to Laxmikant–Pyarelal or SD Burman. If I have Western music in my film, I cannot use classical dance. A hero can’t break into Bharatanatyam in the middle of a club!” Remo D’Souza, who has both directed and choreographed films, agrees that hip-hop has taken over. 
 He says, “Yes, hip-hop has taken over not just Bollywood, but the entire nation. I have made two successful films out of it, which proves that the dance form is popular and is here to stay. However, that doesn’t mean that we have forgotten our culture and dance forms. I bagged a National Award for choreographing 'Pinga' in ' ' (2015), which was a traditional folk dance number. Hip-hop hasn’t replaced Bollywood thumkas, it’s just that we are not making the kind of music we were making a decade ago anymore.”
 
