GURUGRAM: Sister  , who has been accused of cruelty and discrepancies in the adoption process at  , claimed, while talking to TOI earlier in July, that the   have been framed against her for crimes she had never committed.

  the charges of forgery and of modification of birth dates in the documents, Baretto said often, when a child was brought over, the date of birth is not known. “We provided them with a date, which was subsequently celebrated as their birthday every year,” Baretto said. Regarding the issue of some children having her last name, she said it was their choice. Children who were orphans and didn’t have a last name used her’s wilfully.
 
 When this TOI correspondent asked her about the children who were sent to a home in Goa, Baretto said, “They were sent there for a special learning course. For example, one of the children had a learning difficulty and was mentally challenged. We thought the course would help such children.” 
 
 However, Baretto said she was shocked to know that the FIR was registered against her on the basis of the statement of one of the girls. She said she wasn’t shocked by the complaint, but by the fact that the girl in question couldn’t read or write, leave alone the option of signing the copy of the complaint.
 
 Sister Baretto, who has been running the home for the last 30 years, said children at the home have grown up to ‘reach heights of glory’ in life. TOI spoke to one of the former inmates, who was all praises for the institution and Baretto. The person, who is currently pursuing engineering, said, “I had nothing when my parents died. Whatever I am today is because of Ujjwal Niketan and Sister Baretto,” he said.
 
 Regarding the two girls who were brought to her for adoption, the incident which first brought the care home under scrutiny, she said the girl’s aunt had brought them to the home saying their parents had died and no one in their family was ready to take care of them. Baretto had then approached the registrar and followed the required procedure for adoption in October 2015.
 
 Baretto concluded, saying, she also faced the ire of authorities when she stood up against them for demanding bribes and freebies for admissions in Christian schools across the city. 
 
 
