 fans in Nagpur will not get to see their favourite singer croon in the city anytime soon. His mega concert, which was planned for April 1, stands cancelled. This is the third time in a row that his concert has been called off in Nagpur. The event was being organised by   and his partners. And there is a big list of blunders responsible for this disaster, which has disappointed all those music buffs who had bought the tickets online. We update you on the reasons...

 
 A source informs us that total deal with the singer was for around ₹1.35 crore. Fifty per cent payment was given to him in advance, and the rest of it was to be made at least three-four days before the concert. The organisers failed to pay the remaining amount in time, leading to cancellation of the show.”
 
 
 Another major reason for the show to be called off was that the organisers failed to get the clearance. Our sources inform us, “There was a huge chaos with the   department. The officials wanted advance tax to be paid on the entire ticket plan of the show, whereas the organisers wanted to pay the tax only on the tickets booked online. The ET officials asked the organisers to give a bank guarantee or deposit total ₹44 lakh in advance tax, which was to be refunded after deducting the tax on actual tickets sold. But the organisers couldn’t pay.”
 
 
 We spoke to Resident Deputy Collector, KNK Rao, about the confusion regarding the entertainment tax. He categorically said, “Government rules have to be followed. Total ticket budget of the show given to us was for ₹2.2 crore. On that amount, tax was calculated at ₹44 lakh. The organisers could only pay `13 lakh so we gave them permission to book tickets worth `65 lakh. We gave them many options and even asked them to give the rest in the form of bank guarantee. But they withdrew the application at the last-minute. They have no business blaming us because it is government dues and we need security against that. Who would run after the organisers once the show is over?”
 
 The final nail in the coffin came on the technical front. Interestingly, some of the best light and sound technicians were specially flown in from Mumbai for the event. “The technical specialists from Mumbai got their payment quite late. Hence, they couldn’t start their work on time, which led to delay on this front, although the stage, bouncers, seating, CCTV cameras were all in place,” informs our source.
 
 
  
 With this event being called off, hundreds of Nagpurians who had bought the tickets online, are in doldrums, fretting over the money spent on the tickets. When we contacted the production in-charge of the show,  , he shared, “The show has been postponed till May. All those who want a refund will get 100 per cent money back via online portal. And those who want to opt for the tickets for the next show, will also be accommodated.”
 
 
 Organiser of the show, Mahavir Kamdar, admits that financial problems led to the show being cancelled. A very tired sounding Kamdar confesses, “I’m tired but not defeated. The sponsors pulled out at the eleventh hour, so we couldn’t pay Arijit’s remaining amount. Also, the demand of Entertainment Tax department to raise a large amount in the form of bank guarantee or cash came as a sudden burden and we couldn’t pay. But, let me clarify that the show is postponed, not cancelled. It will be organised in May for sure and we will iron out all the problems at that time. After all, the show must go on!”
 
 
