NEW DELHI: Five months after the   passed a resolution to complete the   work of   on its own, its commissioner PK Gupta has allocated Rs 1 crore for the project.

 The corporation decided to develop the lake in   on the lines of   in Ahmedabad, following a visit to the state by its officials.
 
 Last month Union tourism minister Mahesh Sharma had assured financial assistance for the project. “We have been assured help from the central government. The north civic body will use its own funds to initiate the project and later it will be reimbursed,” said Gupta.
 
 The plan was prepared by environmentalist CR Babu and proposals like mechanical desilting of the lake bed, aeration arrangement using pumps and sprinklers, installation of effluent treatment plant, rainwater harvesting system to recharge the lake along with development of green area and lightning arrangement have been approved by the north civic body.
 
 However, other proposals like laser shows, zorbing and heavy power boats have been excluded from the plan submitted by Babu, who is from Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystems. “The lake falls in residential area and we have to ensure the redevelopment plan doesn’t affect the residents. We are working to restore the natural ambience of the lake,” said Gupta.
 
 In February last year, residents started a campaign on social media under the banner ‘Save Naini Lake’. The campaign caught attention of Delhi tourism minister Kapil Mishra and a plan was put in place with the north civic body.
 
 However, on August 3 last year, the BJP-led corporation decided not to renew the Delhi tourism department’s lease to manage the lake and junked the agreement, deciding instead to “redevelop” the lake on its own, despite being cash strapped.
 
 In the first phase of the project, the lake will be mechanically de-silted to clear the bed and aeration arrangement will be done using pumps and showers to increase the dissolved oxygen levels. Further, the old brick and old drain will be replaced with an RCC drain, which will have a desilting chamber to clear the rain water.
 
 “Kankaria lake has beautiful lightning arrangement on its circular periphery without disturbing the aquatic life. We have asked the architect to make a similar plan for Naini lake, with few necessary changes as it is rectangular in shape,” added Gupta.
 
 Meanwhile, the civic body continues to pump groundwater from borewells into the lake, which might pose threat to the water body and its aquatic life. 
 
 Babu, who had drawn out a plan to ecologically revive the lake, explained why this move would further damage the lake. “A living water body has a natural inlet and an outlet. But here groundwater through borewells is being used to recharge water. And since the water table in the area is less than 30 feet, the water being pumped up may be highly saline and destroy the lake instead of reviving it,” he said.
 
 
