AURANGABAD: The economic offences wing (EOW) of the city police has come across a case where a doctor couple, both holding MBBS degrees, allegedly posed as labourers and put up a false accident insurance claim for Rs 13 lakh. 

 The case is part of the fake accidents’ claim racket which the EOW busted last month. The EOW has so far found 54 cases where false claims to the tune of Rs 1 crore have been made. “However, it is yet to be established how much claim amount has been disbursed,” an EOW officer said.
 
 Police inspector   of the EOW told TOI on Wednesday that the couple put up the claim before the   (MACT). “A practising lawyer submitted an affidavit stating that he knew the couple and that they were labourers. The claim was made from a private insurance company,” he said.
 
 On February 3, the police busted the racket in which a head constable, a doctor and an insurance company surveyor, among others, were found involved in the registration of fake accident cases. The constable was suspended soon after the   was exposed. The probe was handed over to the EOW, which has already arrested some policemen, lawyers and doctors.
 
 Commenting on the doctor couple’s false claim, police commissioner Amitesh Kumar said, “It is shocking. The couple obviously did this to earn the sympathy of the MACT.”
 
 In a complaint to the area police station, the couple claimed they were on a two-wheeler when they were hit by a four-wheeler. The complaint states that the couple as well as those travelling in the four-wheeler were injured in the accident.
 
 Based on the complaint, the police station registered a case against the unidentified four-wheeler driver and charged him under sections 279 (rash driving in public way), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC. Based on this, the couple put up the accident claim.
 
 Sable said, “The investigation has found how deep-rooted and organised the racket is. At each level, the claimants, in connivance with police, panchas, investigation officer, lawyers representing both sides and the authorities from the insurance company, have made false claims.”
 
 Police sub-inspector Subhash Khandagle said, “The list of suspects who have registered false accident cases, followed by false accident claims, includes medical professionals, pharmacists, lawyers and farmers.”
 
