Don’t let the cushy fluffy sonorous sound of ‘cushioning’ fool you, because if it’s being done to you, there’s no cushion that can save you the hurt. In layman terms,   is having a backup option for a partner. So, basically, even while you are in a relationship with person A, you keep your options open with person B, or even person C and D. 

 This is to ensure that if and when your current relationship falls apart, you will have the backups, who are the cushions, to fall back on, and thus save you the heartache or the loneliness of spending time without a partner. 
 
 Keeping your options open was never so cringeworthy! Here’s what we think about it...
 
 If you are cushioning, you probably were never sure of this relationship. It is so much more prone to fall apart this way.  , an administrative officer, says, “This is a quite natural phenomena, where so many of us go through heartbreaks. Those days are gone when someone would stick to his/her partner through thick and thin. Nowadays, we fear that our partner will leave anytime. What will we do then? So, we keep a backup option. I have myself been a victim of cushioning, and yet, I understand exactly where she was coming from.”
 
 When in the nascent stages of a relationship, keeping your options open can be a good thing. However, if you are in a committed relationship and go for cushioning, you deserve neither the cushion, nor the bed, nor the pillows.
 
 It is worse than ghosting, or benching, or breadcrumbing, because if we strip it down of all the fineries, cushioning basically amounts to cheating. Yes, even if you are not sexually involved with your cushions.
 
 If you get into a habit of always having a backup, you will never be able to commit to one person, because relationships mean taking risks, and you are not ready for them.
 
 If you are using a person as a cushion by leading them on, even while on paper you are in a relationship, be prepared for a taste of your own medicine. Because, your cushion knows what they are to you, and will probably have a cushion of his/her own too.
 
 Having backup options will also make you put that much lesser effort into your current relationship, as the prospect of falling back on your cushion will always have you cocooned in your own little dreamworld.
 
 
 
 
 "The concept of cushioning is not new. It’s how   says in 'Dear Zindagi', you don’t buy the first chair you try, right? However, the fault with this generation is that they want instant gratification. If a relationship sours, they do not want to sit back and analyse where they could have gone wrong. And the instant fallback is the cushion, who makes them feel good about themselves, without having to go through the low phase. At one point, we would go out for an ice cream if we felt low. Now, with social media, you have no lack of people who are always ready to flatter you and please you. So, you gradually slip back into a comfort zone and just do not know how to come out of it. Knowing where to draw the line is important."
 
 
 
 Keep the cushions restricted to your upholstery. 
 
 
