BENGALURU: Sudden downpour threw normal life out of gear in Bengaluru, Mysuru and Nelamangala since last night.

 In Bengaluru city, many areas, including Koramangal 4th block, are affected by heavy rains. Roads were blocked after many trees fell down, causing damage to some vehicles. Water-logging was also reported in BMTC depot in Shantinagar.
 
 Annapurneshwari layout and Andanappa layout were submerged in water after a lake overflew in Doddabidare Kallu area.
 
  
  
 Areas such as Krishnarajapuram, Nelamangala, Koramangala and surrounding areas in the city received more than 180 mm rain.
 
 Krishnaraja Puram alone received 196 mm rain.
 
 "It is a record for September that on a single day there was more than 180 mm rain whereas the average rainfall in September alone is 212 mm.. The highest record for this month in the past was 516 mm.. I think that record will be broken," said Srinivasa Reddy, director, Karnataka Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre.
 
 Many trees were uprooted, lakes breached their banks, and houses were inundated as rains pounded the city.
 
 The waste weir of Dodda Bidarakallu near Nelamangala swept away and water gushed into many areas including a poultry farm killing 10,000 poultry birds, officials said.
 
 Housing Minister M Krishnappa with Mayor G Padmavathi and other BBMP officials toured around the rain affected areas including Attiguppe where the compound wall of a building collapsed damaging many cars.
 
 No loss of human life in the city has been reported so far.
 
 Leo Saldanha of Environment Support Group blamed the government and the civic agencies for their "short sightedness" which has been causing flooding in the city.
 
 He said the poor approach towards protecting the stormwater drains, lakes and its watershed region has wrecked havoc.
 
 He was critical about the remodelling of stormwater drains as it will not serve any purpose.
 
 In Mysuru, water entered into most of the low-lying areas. Rain is still continuing from yesterday 10 PM onwards. Dasara cultural events were affected by this thunder shower.
 
 In Alim Nagar area, a compound wall fell down and 4 people were injured in the incident. 
 
  
  
 
 Gundu Rao Nagar, Paduvarahalli, Gousia Nagar areas were also affected by heavy rains.
 
 Most of the lakes are overflowing causing damage to the nearby homes.
 
 Heavy water flow from Chamundi hills gives an impression of water falls to many.
 
 Nelamangala at Bengaluru outskirts is affected by rains. Many lakes overflowing causing water logging in Bengaluru-Tumkuru Highway. Heavy   on this road.
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
