TRICHY/SALEM/COIMBATORE/MADURAI: The decision by 122 MLAs to support V K Sasikala-backed   during Saturday’s   in the assembly has not gone down well in the constituencies, and the anger could show in the local body elections.

 People in Coimbatore, where the AIADMK won nine of 10 constituencies in the May 2016 assembly election and six of them voted for Palaniswami on Saturday, were furious. “It is upsetting that an elected representative has failed to listen to the people's voice. They cannot take the people for granted. They are answerable to us," said a businessman from R S Puram represented by Amman K Arjunan.
 
 A 21-year-old businessman from Kovaipudur, said, “When there is a clear indication about people’s sentiment, I don’t understand why the MLAs chose to stay in the resort. They should have come to their constituencies and listened to us.”
 
 In the Trichy region, where AIADMK candidates bagged 24 of 41 constituencies, several people said there would be a revolt. “But it will not happen immediately. People will wait for the local body elections to sho their frustration and anger,” said S R Kishore Kumar from Trichy East constituency represented by tourism minister Vellamandi N Natarajan.
 
 P Kannan, an AIADMK worker from Kunnam constituency in Perambalur district, tried to burn the effigy of legislator R T Ramachandran, attacking him for ignoring the people’s voices. “We voted him to power but he ignored our opinion and decided on his own in choosing the one who is not liked by people. They may be holidaying in the resorts now. But they will face the reaction in local body election.” 
 
 The drama in the assembly has not thrilled party workers in Madurai district with most expressing the view that OPS should have become chief minister. “Some of us called up our MLAs asking them to take side with OPS but ultimately it did not happen,” said a party member not willing to be named.
 
 Akila Indhiya Moovendar Munnani Kazhagam founder Dr N Sethuraman felt Palanisamy’s trust vote victory may not win him the all-important trust of people. Social activists, meanwhile, have expressed anguish over the developments. “We expect people who voted the party to power to express their anger but it is not happening,” said P Annadurai of Sattapanchayat Iyakkam.
 
 MLAs from Salem district could face trouble from those who elected them. “We will not cooperate with those who supported Edappadi K Palaniswami,” said S K Selvam, former MLA from Veerapandi constituency.
 
 Senio party leader and Mettur legislator S Semmalai warned that voters in many areas were furious and may not support the concerned MLAs concerned in the next election. “The MLAs who have supported Edappadi K Palaniswami won’t get votes if they contests again,” he said.
 
 
