HYDERABAD: There was a flutter outside   on the busy   when a man in his early thirties doused himself with petrol and set himself ablaze on Saturday morning. The man died before anyone could come to his rescue.

 The Gopalpuram police said the victim, who was neatly dressed and carrying a backpack, bought petrol in two 1.5litre bottles from two IOC outlets on SD Road around 5.47am. He walked to the lane between St.Mary's Basilica and the Bishop House, doused himself with petrol and set himself ablaze.
 
 The man, engulfed in flames and reportedly screaming `Jesus is Great', ran towards the Bishop House and collapsed there around 6am. The entire incident, right from buying petrol to setting himself ablaze, was captured by CCTV cameras at different locations. Before entering the petrol bunk, the person disembarked from an auto.
 
 Police suspect he may have been a Tamil Christian, based on photos recovered from CCTV footage at the IOC outlet near   tel and cross-checked with representatives of churches in Secunderabad. They found a cross around his neck.
 
 Morning-walkers and passers-by were taken aback as the event unfolded. The police reached the spot, but failed to get any evidence to establish the identity of the person. However, police ruled out any foul play as there was CCTV footage available from different locations.
 
 “As per the CCTV footage, the man, who had neatly tucked in his shirt and was wearing a backpack, bought petrol in soda bottles. He later went to the lane adjacent to the Bishop House. He kept his bag there, took out the bottles, doused himself with petrol and lit himself. He ran into the Bishop House and collapsed there. At the place where he died, there was no CCTV,“ Gopalpuram sub-inspector   said.
 
 Police said there was no clue in the bag to establish his identity. Taking photo grabs of the CCTV footage, police showed it various representatives of churches nearby. “However, no one could identify the man,“ the police officer said.
 
 A police team, including an inspector, is working to establish his identity and the reason for him taking the extreme step.
 
