The Baby spin-off, Naam Shabana, directed by Shivam Nair, will showcase the making of a female undercover agent. The film that releases on March 31, also aims to portray the hardships that the protagonist goes through to become a spy. In the process, it throws light on the unsung heroes of our country. The film’s team, in keeping with the film’s spirit, acknowledges four unsung, real heroes of our nation, whose contribution and dedication towards the country’s security is unparalleled.

 
 
 Tanushree Pareek is Border Security Force’s (BSF) first woman field officer in its 51-year history. She began her 52-week training last year in the Assistant Commandant training program with the 40th batch of the BSF academy. Her convocation ceremony was held at the   in Tekanpur, Gwalior where she led the passing-out parade as the first woman field officer. Union Home Minister   congratulated her and put the rank stars on her shoulders. When Tanushree visited Bikaner, her hometown, she was given a rousing welcome. People gathered in big numbers to see the woman who chose a path less traveled.
 
 
 Locals of Dadwan, popularly known as the village of spies, worked for the Indian intelligence agencies. The Border Security Force (BSF) and Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) had assigned tasks to them. They had to find strategic information about the movements and whereabouts of the neighbouring country’s army. And for that, they were compensated. The recruitment practice dates back to the 1950s where the Indian intelligence agencies offered work to unemployed villagers, many of whom died in Pakistani prisons. They lived their lives trying to get as much information as possible for their handlers. Almost every home in Dadwan had a family member working for the agencies, but was never recognised for it. Satpal is one such hero who worked as a low-level informant for the military intelligence. His body was brought back from Pakistan, covered with the Indian flag. His contribution to India’s security was immense but few know about his bravery and perseverance. Satpal was brutally tortured and could barely walk. His death shocked his family. 
 
 
 
 Major Rishi despite severe injuries chose to save his team during a 16-hour gunfight in   and Kashmir. Two terrorists were cornered in the Tral area and Major Rishi was the first to get to the spot. He volunteered to go inside the house and plant bombs to get the terrorists out. After a prolonged 16-hour gunfight, he was shot in the face by a terrorist. But he displayed true grit and presence of mind. He shot his target, and saved his team from the impending danger. The operation ended after both the terrorists were gunned. The incident severed his nose and damaged his cheek bone and jaw. The brave officer is now recovering in an army hospital in Delhi, after coming out a valiant winner from the life-threatening mission.
 Team Naam Shabana salutes the spirit of these unconventional, nameless, faceless heroes. The film is a tribute to their bravery and the innumerable hardships they face to protect our country from numerous kinds of threats. 
 
 
 
 Kanchan Yadav, a central Reserve Police (CRPF) official in Srinagar, is popularly known as Lady Singham for her outstanding courage and discipline. The 28-year-old was the only woman to be given the responsibility of handling law-and-order when the region suffered its most recent bout of prolonged tension. She believes her nation’s security is her priority and once she dons the uniform, she’s driven by a force that guides her to tread the difficult path with utmost courage. She has tackled stone-pelting mobs and always stood her ground when faced with hazardous attacks. Kanchan’s family members, many of whom has been with the defence forces, have always motivated her. As a child, the uniform fascinated her. Her mother was her greatest inspiration. She too was with the defence forces and taught her that women are no less than men.
 
  
  
 
