JODHPUR: The   has asked the state government that why it has not made public   report on 2008 Mehrangarh temple tragedy despite lapse of six years since its submission.

 Issuing notice to the government, the division bench comprising Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Vineet Kumar Mathur has directed additional advocate general P R Singh to appear in the court with the reply on the next hearing.
 
 Disappointed despite relentless efforts by the   to press upon the governments to make the report public, the manch moved this petition in the court.
 
 Secretary of the manch Manaram said that in these six years, we have run from pillar to post to get this report made public but all our pleas have fallen on deaf years and now we are left with no alternative than to seek the judicial intervention.
 
 His counsel Vijay Mehta said that not making the report public has defeated the purpose of setting up the inquiry commission and has dealt injustice with the victims’ families.
 
 “More so, the report will not only tell us that who were responsible for this incident but also prepare us about the steps required to be put during such occasions of huge public congregation by throwing light on the shortcomings,” said Mehta.
 
 216 youths had died in this tragedy on the first day of Navratra on September 30, 2008 early morning at the  , who all had queued up in the fort to pay obeisance to the goddess Chamunda.
 
 The then state government of BJP had constituted a commission headed by Justice Jasraj Chopra to probe the causes of the tragedy and fix the responsibility for this accident in October 2008 with the direction to submit the report in three months.
 
 The commission got six extensions due to hesitation of the victims’ kin in appearing before the commission and submitting their representations. The report was finally submitted in May 2011 during the Congress rule and since then, the report has been gathering dust with the successive governments.
 
 Justice Chopra as the chairman of the commission, visited all the major religious festivals of the country to see the arrangements there and incorporated them in his report as suggestion.
 
