NAGPUR: As the taxman became proactive after demonetization, the number of people being assessed have risen by 80 lakh. “This increases the taxpayers’ base in the country by 20%,” the chairman of central board of direct taxes ( ),   told TOI.

 He was in the city to attend the valedictory function of the 69th batch of   (IRS), officers passing out of   (NADT), on Thursday. The NADT, which is one of the premier institutes of the government, trains IRS officers getting into the income tax department.
 
 Chandra said the department has taken a number of steps to mop up tax collection and “it has worked”. In the last fiscal, the collection was past the target set at Rs8.57 lakh crore. This year it has been set at over Rs10 lakh.
 
 “Till the last days of March there was little hope that the target may be met. However, a strategy was chalked out and soon the tax collection was more than the target,” said Chandra.
 
 The CBDT chairman said a multi pronged approach was adopted. There was huge demand pending to be recovered, The stress was to get the money realized many of such pending demand was from companies. In many cases the TDS collections were beefed up. The entire exercise led to a 75% increase the self-assessment tax paid during fiscal ending on March 2017 as against the previous year. 
 
 An analysis of data obtained from banks following demonetization has shown that there were 18 lakh accounts which showed signs of likely tax evasion. These were different case scenarios like huge deposit which was not revealed in the income tax returns. There were accounts which normally had a low balance but had abnormal deposits following the note-ban.
 
 The department has put up a questionnaire on the website specifying different scenarios under which the deposits may have gone up. The persons have been sent SMSes seeking their reply. “If the answers are found reasonable they will be let off. So far 9 lakh have responded. Those who have not responded will not be spared. They will be tracked down and will be facing actions like scrutiny surveys or open inquiry,” he said.
 
 Chandra said there was an encouraging response to the Prime Minister   (PMGKY) under which unaccounted cash and bank deposits can be disclosed. “A large number of persons have availed of the scheme and the numbers will be declared in due course,” said Chandra.
 
 On the question of old currency being found, he said it can be still linked to the previous years’ income and the source can be questioned by the income tax department. 
 
 
