PATNA: The   received a severe jolt last year as the percentage increase in tourists coming to the state stood at mere 2%. Besides, the increase in foreign tourist footfall also plunged from 11% to 9%.

 As per the annual tourists’ footfall report released by the state tourism department recently, at least 2,95,26,658 tourists came to Bihar last year, including 10,10,531 foreigners. Though the inflow of tourists — both domestic and foreign — increased in 2016 compared to the corresponding figures in 2015, the percentage increase was lower.
 
 Eventually, this is the second time in 16 years that the foreign tourist footfall crossed the 10-lakh mark. Around 10,96,933 tourists came to Bihar in 2012 and the biggest factor leading to such record foreign tourist footfall was the 11-day Kalachakra Puja at Bodh Gaya from December, 2011 to January, 2012.
 
 Incidentally, Bihar witnessed a mammoth rise in tourist footfall in January this year as well due to two mega events — the Prakashotsava and the 32nd Kalachakra initiations. More than 5 lakh Sikh devotees from India and abroad came to Patna for the Prakashotsava celebrations and around 4 lakh Buddhist devotees visited Bodh Gaya for Kalachakra. However, the tourist inflow in both the mega events will be counted in this year’s figures.
 
 Meanwhile, tourism experts attributed last year’s plunge in arrival of tourists to prohibition in the state. They claimed that the number of tourists was likely to dip further. Incidentally, Bihar was made a dry state by the Nitish Kumar government from April 5 last year.
 
 “Prohibition by and large has a negative impact on tourists’ inflow at any place. A large section of tourists — both demotic and foreigners — want to relax in the evening with a couple of pegs. If they are not allowed, they will either not come to the place or avoid staying for long. Governments should have a holistic approach towards curbing liquor and absolute prohibition has never been successful,” said Association of Domestic Tour Operators of India’s former president  .
 
 Ironically, CM Nitish Kumar has said a couple of times over the past few months that those who cannot do away without liquor are not welcome in Bihar.
 
 Travel and tour operators are also worried about bad business due to poor tourist footfall. “Tourism in Bihar largely centres around religious pilgrimage. A major section of tourists will continue to come here, but the problem lies with their shorter stay,” said a Bodh Gaya-based tour operator.
 
 Senior officials in the tourism department too admitted that prohibition might have led to a slight plunge in tourist footfall, but attributed demonetisation as the major factor. “We believe that demonetisation has affected inflow of tourists as they need minimum amount of cash while travelling. Besides, imposition of prohibition must have also led to some impact, but we are hopeful that the situation will improve soon,” said tourism department director Umashankar Prasad.
 
