PATNA:   (PU) will undertake the exercise of getting   (NAAC) accreditation after the conclusion of its centenary celebrations in October this year, said vice-chancellor Ras Bihari Singh.

 The VC on Monday directed the heads of all its post-graduate departments to make necessary preparations for the NAAC accreditation. “Each department should prepare a status report, detailing its infrastructure, teaching and research activities, publication of research papers in reputed journals by the faculty members and achievements of its teachers and students so that a comprehensive self-study report (SSR) of the university could be prepared. PU will send its letter of intent to NAAC only after finalization of its SSR. PU pro-vice-chancellor Dolly Sinha will be the chief coordinator of NAAC accreditation activities,” the VC said.
 
 Even though some universities of the state, including Magadh University, L N Mithila University and BRA Bihar University have already got NAAC accreditation, PU never applied for it. At least five colleges of PU – Patna Women’s College (PWC), Department of Education (PWC), Magadh Mahila College, B N College,   and College of Arts and Crafts – have NAAC accreditation. Patna Science College and B N College are seeking re-accreditation as the validity of their last accreditation ended after a lapse of five years.   has also sent its letter of intent and SSR to NAAC and awaiting the peer team’s visit for assessment, said college principal Rakesh Verma.
 
 Asked about PU’s centenary celebrations, the VC said an invitation will be sent to Prime Minister   and education minister   in a day or two to grace the event. The celebrations are proposed to be held in the last week of September and the help of chancellor Ram Nath Kovind and chief minister Nitish Kumar would also be sought for making the celebrations memorable.
 
 Singh said as suggested by CM, the university will hold three separate seminars on the contributions of PU history department faculty members in India’s freedom movement, Patna Science College’s contributions in the scientific development of the country and Patna Law College’s contributions in the growth and development of Indian judiciary. All these three institutions of PU are known all over the country for their academic excellence in the past.
 
 The VC further pointed out that a new multi-storey building – Shatabdi Bhawan – will be constructed in Saidpur complex to accommodate all the newly created departments of the university. Both the UGC and the state government are likely to release handsome grants to the seventh oldest university of the country on the occasion of its centenary celebrations, he added. 
 
