Panaji: Caritas has recently identified three more children diagnosed with deafblindness in the state. Awareness about the unique disability has grown and cases were referred by pediatricians at GMC and Hospicio Hospital, Margao. Caritas is the official development arm of the Catholic Churches. All below the age of two, they have varying degrees of hearing and vision impairment. Two of the children also have cerebral palsy. Special educators got the children functionally and clinically assessed and assisted them in getting the Brainstem Auditory Evoked Responses (BERA) test done to ascertain the extent of hearing loss. The non-government organization supported by Sense International, India, began its deafblind project in the state five years ago and currently caters to 34 deafblind all over the state.  When their dual disability doesn’t permit them to study in schools for the blind or for the deaf, the project’s six special educators come to their rescue. “We prepare individualized educational plans for each child where we set both short and long term goals which are practical and age appropriate,” says special educator Reshma Swami. Considering the extent of the disability, the deafblind face extreme challenges with communication and mobility and special educators often have to start from scratch teaching them everything from eating, drinking, grooming, toileting, personal safety as well as work on their motor skills, helping them to jump, walk and run, she adds.  In a few cases special educators found children confined to their beds for years together, with the parents feeling quite helpless.  “We focus on their strengths but cannot bring in improvement alone. We ensure that we work with their family members, caretakers and teachers too. It has to be a team effort,” Swami says. A number of children who are deafblind also have additional physical and medical conditions. A round half the children that Caritas works with also have cerebral palsy, project coordinator Ninoskha Fernandes says. Under the project the children also receive access to speech therapists and physiotherapists on Saturdays at the resource room at St Inez. They receive assistance in procuring aids, appliances and medicines too. Under the new Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, deafblindness has been recognized as a disability which will now help these children get certificates for multiple disabilities. A fully equipped day care centre is being set up at Saligao with all the necessary facilities for the deafblind.