MUMBAI: The railway authorities on Sunday   a head constable of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) for “not getting the train attended in time and not informing the inspector concerned” about a   exposing himself to a 22-year-old   in a Churchgate-bound train.

 Earlier in the day, Union railway minister   ordered a detailed inquiry into the incident. “Have ordered an inquiry in the matter. Strict action will be taken against the guilty,” tweeted Prabhu. 
 
 The action comes a day after TOI reported the incident that had taken place on May 24. The incident came to light when the woman posted her ordeal on Facebook on Thursday; her post soon went viral. 
 
 The 22-year-old woman had said she had dialled the railway helpline number ‘182’ when the flasher exposed himself between Borivli and   stations and threatened to rape her, but the operator heard her out, “laughed off the matter” and hung up. 
 
 During its  , railway officials heard the recording of all calls made on that day, and established that “no RPF staffer laughed at the complainant”. “However, head constable Sayed Izhaar is being issued a chargesheet under Section 158 of RPF Rules for not getting the train attended in time and not informing the matter to the inspector concerned,” a senior official said.
 
 The investigating team will now seek Izhaar’s explanation before deciding on a penalty. Izhaar is attached to the Mumbai Central control room, which had received the call on May 24.
 
 Western Railway chief PRO Ravinder Bhakar said following the incident, senior officials have decided to deploy women RPF staffers at the control room. “We will be deploying women constables at the security helpline to facilitate female complainants, who will be able to express their grievance comfortably.” 
 
 Meanwhile, the Government Railway Police (GRP) said they were verifying the complaint and are yet to register an FIR in the ‘flashing’ incident. Speaking to TOI on Sunday, the woman, who is a postgraduate sociology student in Bengaluru, said she wasn’t aware that she would have to press charges for the police to launch a formal investigation and nab the flasher. “I’m back in Bengaluru and can only file a complaint with the Maharashtra police if it’s possible online,” she told TOI. “After the GRP got in touch with me over the phone, I mailed them all the details,” she added. 
 
 The woman had also posted a picture of the flasher on Facebook. “We have circulated his photograph to all railway agencies, including GRP and RPF,” said a senior railway officer.
 
 
