KOLKATA: Taking a leaf out of Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s (KMC) book, the   (BMC) is working towards launching an app to provide civic services to the residents of the township. Christened ‘Aamar Sahar’, the app will not only respond to citizens’ grievances and provide necessary civic services, it will also enable users to pay their   and apply for   

 The KMC had introduced an app for redressal of citizens’ problems a year ago. “The KMC app has been functioning well and responding to taxpayers’ grievances,” claimed Sandipan Saha, a Trinamool councillor and in charge of the civic body’s IT department. 
 
 The pilot project, which the civic authorities are working on in full swing, is expected to be completed by March next year. “We are targetting April for launching the app. One would be able to avail of civic services in   using it,” said mayor Sabyasachi Dutta. Apart from getting civic services, one would get an overview of the civic corporation through the app, according to a civic official.
 
 “There are many residents from the township who now live in other cities and even abroad. It is not always possible for their elderly parents to come to the corporation headquarters for paying tax. Also, one will be able to submit building plans through the app. Residents would also be able to use the app to air their grievances on any specific civic services, like malfunctioning streetlights, inadequate water supply and garbage accumulation,” said an official.
 
 The idea of the app cropped up after Salt Lake residents put forward a host of must-dos to transform the township. “There is need to develop and strengthen security arrangements, control mosquito breeding and improving road conditions,” said homeopath Anamika Paira, a resident of CE Block. “There should be better care facilities for the elderly in the township,” added Sanjukta Dhar, a senior executive of a multinational IT firm. 
 
 “Besides, there are a few other things that should be looked into. Bumpers should be well marked by glow signs and they should be coloured. At some points, streetlights are inadequate, like the strech between Udayachal tourist lodge and Purta Bhavan. Sweepers must work properly and they must not burn wastes on the road. It creates a lot of pollution,” suggested Avijit Sarangi, a resident of CJ block. 
 
 
