AJMER: A special team of   Thursday arrested four accused in sensational murder of   who was shot at public place in Shrinagar road on January 31 this year. Police concluded that Meena was murdered because of   and has connection in murder of Dharmender Choudhary, who was shot in November last year.

 The team led by IPS Monika Sen investigated relations and reason behind murder and on different tips took the team to Rajesh Kumar, who was main alleged conspirator in this crime. Police investigation showed that there was rivalry between the gangs of Dharmender Choudhary and Vikram Sharma and in November last year, Dharmender was shot near the indoor stadium. “Feeling of revenge in Rajesh and Varun went stronger and they planned to take vengeance. Rajesh along with Varun and other members of the gang — Ramswaroop Choudhary, Gopal Prajapat and Hemant Koli — planned to kill every member of Vikram’s gang,” said a police official.
 
 The investigation stated that the gang first tried to shoot Sanjay Meena who had to attend the court on the date and they started organizing the killing but Sanjay did not turn up on the court date. Lately, some gang members started following other members to plan the killing. The next target was Ramkesh Meena and they included Gopal Dancer who was in touch with Ramkesh.
 
 On January 14, Rajesh and his gang opened fire on Ramkesh who was at a Sabji Mandi. But Raamkesh managed to escape and police filed case against unknown accused. But on January 31, gang members of Rajesh followed Ramkesh and they found him on Shrinagar road where they shot at him in which Ramkesh died on spot. Police Thursday arretsed Rajesh (49), son of Hubi Singh, of Bharatpur and there are more than 18 cases registered against him in different states.
 
 Police also arrested Gopal Prajapat (34), son of Sitaram, of Ajmer, Hemant (36), son of Arjun Singh Koli, of Alwar gate in Ajmer and Ramswaroop Choudhary (35), son of Ramkaran, of Roopangargh. Police accepted that this is a gang war and they are looking for more members of this gang. Rajesh is famous in underworld gangs as a sharp shooter.
 
