LUCKNOW: BJP’s   for UP elections, released here on Saturday, promises a referendum of sorts on triple   from Muslim women of UP, a special department to check   as a fallout of riots and exploring possibilities for construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya within the constitutional framework.   national president, while releasing the manifesto, said, “temple and development can go hand-in-hand.”

 Called the ‘Lok Kalyan Sankalp Patra’, the manifesto focuses on issues that the party has been raising over the years in UP – law and order, corruption, illegal mining and the menace of land grabbing. It has promised a task force each to check corruption, illegal mining and land grabbing. It has also promised loan waiver for farmers and clearing of sugarcane dues, issues plaguing a large section of farmers in the state.
 
 The Ram temple issue forms a part of the manifesto, though it remains unchanged from the way it was during the Lok Sabha elections in 2014. The manifesto calls for “exploring all possibilities within the Constitutional framework in construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya.”
 
 Replying to a question on the possibilities that the manifesto promises to explore on the Ram temple issue, Shah, who released manifesto, said that the matter is in court, which in itself a Constitutional process, hinting that BJP will wait for the court’s decision instead of bringing a Bill for the construction of Ram temple as had been demanded by seers and saints and VHP leaders. 
 
 “Ram mandir aur vikas saath-saath chal sakte hain,” Shah said while speaking to newspersons, following the release.
 
 The BJP manifesto ahead of the Lok Sabha election of 2014 had stated:
 
 “BJP reiterates its stand to explore all possibilities within the framework of the constitution to facilitate the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya.”
 
 Not mentioning Kairana in west UP, where its MP Hukum Singh had created a storm by raising the issue of exodus of Hindus fearing violence, the manifesto promises to make district magistrates and superintendents of police responsible, apart from setting up a special department in the government. 
 
 The manifesto has reference to West UP with regard to the department to prevent exodus. The manifesto reads: “To stop exodus due to communal tension, a special department would be created and in each district, especially West UP, a deputy collector would be appointed.”
 
 Speaking on the issue of triple talaq, national BJP president Amit Shah said: “The issue is pending in court. However, once the BJP comes to power, the state government would take opinion of Muslim women on the issue and, if need be, would become a party in the ongoing case, presenting the opinion of the Muslim women from the state.” 
 
 On law and order front, the manifesto promises to put all criminals, who are absconding after ‘been given parole, behind bars within 45 days of the BJP government is formed in the state. To check corruption, the manifesto promises a special helpline in the CM’s office (CMO) while the task force too will be directly under the CMO.
 
 While promising loan waiver to UP farmers, the manifesto made a special mention of plight of sugarcane farmers, promising to clear due to the tune of Rs 6,000 crore within three months. “Farmers will be provided post-dated cheques, which can be encashed 14 days after sale of cane,” said Shah.
 
 Apart from law and order and other issues, the manifesto promises youth a start-up venture capital fund worth Rs 1,000 crore to “encourage youth to be self reliant.” It promised the country’s largest start-up incubator to be set up in UP and also promised free laptops to college-going students with free 1 GB data.
 
 Every college and university will get free wi-fi facility and 10 new international level universities will be set up, the manifesto said, adding a Rs 500-crore Baba Saheb Ambedkar scholarship fund for poor students pursuing higher studies. Free education for girls upto level of graduation and upto class 12 for boys has also been promised.
 
 With a special focus on SC and STs, the manifesto promises 25 special courts to expedite cases under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act.
 
 On the power front, BJP promises to provide subsidized electricity to the poor for the first hundred units, the rebate being Rs 3 per unit.
 
 Focussing on the two underprivileged regions of UP – Bundelkhand and Purvanchal -- the manifesto promises two “development boards.” A road corridor connecting Mathura-Varanasi-Jhansi-Gorakhpur has been promised, while a helicopter service to connect tourist and pilgrimage centres has been added.
 
 To bring in investment in the state, with a target of threefold increase, the manifesto promises setting up of a special investment board.
 
 The manifesto promises filling up of a staggering 1.5 lakh vacancies in the police department, “keeping merit as its basis and without any discrimination on the basis of caste or religion.” “This will end politicization of the police force,’ said Shah. It also promised scrapping of the interview process for posts in grade 3 and 4.
 
