YAVATMAL: The last few weeks have been a whirlwind of elections, starting from biennial election for  ,  ,   and   and   In all, the Shiv Sena and BJP have built a base for themselves while the Congress has been decimated by infighting.

 On Friday, the Shiv Sena, being the single largest party in the 61 member Yavatmal Zilla Parishad, started deliberations to choose between the BJP and NCP for a post poll alliance. The Sena had bad mouthed the BJP as ‘enemy no. 1’ throughout the campaign.
 
 However, Sena candidate Tanaji Sawant won the assembly election while BJP candidate and MoS for Home Dr Ranjit Patil won the graduate constituency. Both parties improved their standing in the municipal councils, ZP and panchayat samitis.
 
 Yavatmal had always been a Congress fort, with the party ruling Yavatmal Zilla Parishad since 1960 till 2012, when the NCP forged an alliance with Shiv Sena. However, after 2017 election, the ZP hung house has left the Shiv Sena as the single largest party. It can forge an alliance with BJP or NCP to reach the magic number of 31. In both cases, Shiv Sena will name the president. If it opts for the NCP, it can stake claim for posts of both president and vice president.
 
 However, the Congress leaders are nowhere to be seen, trying to avoid the umpteen questions from their party cadres and media. After the ZP and PS elections, the Congress has been rooted out of the district, once its citadel. The Congress rank and file is blaming the leadership, local, state as well as national, for the unprecedented rout.
 
 They feel deceived by party leaders for personal gains. One local leader claims to have made many attempts to expose such self-centred local leaders, but the high command turned a blind eye to mismanagement in the party. “It is a headless party in Yavatmal as DCC president Wamanrao Kasawar submitted his resignation after the municipal election debacle. But it is yet to be accepted,” he added.
 
 “How can we convince our cadres when they have been left at the mercy of their political opponents in villages?” he lamented.
 
