MUMBAI: In an interim order, the Bombay   on Thursday restrained the BMC and the Mumbai   Rail Corporation Ltd from cutting trees for Metro-III line between SEEPZ, Andheri and Colaba. The court expressed the need for an independent committee to oversee removal of trees. Over 5,000 trees are slated to face the axe for the  .

 A bench of Chief Justice Manjular Chellur and Justice Girish Kulkarni heard two petitions by Cuffe Parade resident Pervin Jehangir (65) regarding the larger issue of legality of construction and Churchgate resident Nina Verma (76) pertaining specifically to the areas of Churchgate, Hutatma Chowk and Cuffe Parade.
 
 Verma’s petition said MMRCL wants to cut or remove 98 trees at Churchgate, 121 trees at Flore Fountain and a total of 5,012 trees throughout Mumbai, contrary to its own environmental assessment report that only five trees will be affected at Churchgate, four at Hutatma Chowk and a total of 1,745 throughout Mumbai. Both petitions bemoaned cutting of age-old trees indiscriminately and alleged manipulation of the list of trees identified for removal. 
 
 “In that view of the matter, prima facie, we see that there has to be a serious concern regarding the latest problem placed before us since the trees approximately to be cut for Metro Line Number 3 seem to be more than 5,000,” said the bench in its order. 
 
 Earlier, senior advocate Janak Dwarkadas, appearing for Verma, argued that in the past five days, over 100 trees have been cut and it amounts to massive destruction. He said the tree officer is not adhering to the procedure under the Tree Act and permissions are being granted in a mechanical manner without application of mind.
 
 He said the list of trees identified to be cut for the metro project contains wrong information regarding the age of trees, their nature as well as the girth of their trunk. He gave an instance of how the girth of a tree’s trunk was mentioned as 1.5 feet when it was 19 feet. “This shows that the tree officer has not visited the spot before granting the permission,” said Dwarkadas.
 
 Jehangir’s advocate Robin Jaisinghani told the court that the authorities propose to relocate some of the trees to Wadala. “Should residents of Colaba and Churchgate travel to Wadala to get fresh air?” asked Dwarkadas. 
 
 MMRCL advocate said all permissions were obtained and some damage to the environment was bound to occur. The judges questioned what precautionary measures have been taken to preserve or relocate trees. They said the Tree Authority has to handle the problem from the angle of how to save trees. “Can’t you replant the trees elsewhere? Minimum damage is to be done to the environment,” said Justice Chellur.
 
 The judges expressed a desire for an independent committee of experts to oversee removal of trees and to examine if it is viable to shift them elsewhere. In view of the court expressing a desire to set up a committee, MMRCL and BMC advocates urged for time to respond. Acceding to their request, the judges posted the hearing on Friday. “In the meantime, we make it clear that none of the parties would proceed to cut any tree till further orders.” 
 
 
