GURUGRAM: Senior police officers, led by DCP (traffic) Simardeep Singh, went on a recce of   on Wednesday to find out ways to ease snarls on this key thoroughfare. 

 Sources said hour-long congestions had become a regular problem for commuters using the road, especially the 500m-long stretch near   that houses a special economic zone (SEZ). On Tuesday, massive jams were reported in the area even after 10pm when an ambulance, carrying a patient, remained stuck on the stretch for several minutes.
 
 “I was passing through this road around 10 pm yesterday (Tuesday) when I saw this ambulance stuck in the jam. Its siren was blaring, but people could not give way even if they wanted,” said Sangeeta Mishra, a Sector 23 resident.
 
 With the jams refusing to die down even on Wednesday morning, the DCP (traffic) rushed to the area to see what possibly could be done to tackle the situation, which seems to be going out of hand with each passing day. “We are aware of the regular traffic jams on this road. I visited the area near Dundahera to take stock of the situation. The ongoing work to revamp the road is the main cause of regular snarls. However, there are some other issues, such as illegal parking and encroachments on both sides of the road, which are adding to the woes,” Singh told TOI.
 
 “We will hold a meeting with MCG officials on Friday to discuss both temporary as well as long-term measures that can be taken to bring relief to harried commuters,” he added.
 
 Asked about possible steps, Singh said they were planning to put up jersey barriers, among others, all along the stretch from Dundahera to NH-8. “Once these barriers come up, lane driving will have to be maintained and encroachments on both sides of the road will have to go. So it will help ease the congestions to some extent. We are also looking at a few other things that need to be implemented immediately to achieve some visible changes over the next few days,” he explained.
 
 Officials at MCG, which is carrying out the revamp project, said they were trying their best to speed up the construction work. 
 
 “The problem is that we can work only at night, when the traffic is thin. This is a very busy road and there is no alternative route. Thus, we cannot shut it down completely to work 24X7. The entire road project — from Atul Kataria Chowk to the Delhi border, around 6km — will be complete only by January next year. However, we are trying to wrap up the stretch near Dundahera at the earliest,” said V Umashankar, MCG commissioner. 
 
 
