JAIPUR: At a public hearing on work under the   at  , many villagers complained that local officials were attempting to squeeze money out of them for work completed earlier. Many poor women said that they were being denied work as they had no loos at home! Activists were stumped by these complaints, as these are flagrant violations of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. 

 Over 800 people gathered at Bhim on Thursday said they live in areas where stone is quarried – the earth is so rocky that Rs 12,000 offered under the   won’t cover the cost of digging the soil for laying pipes. Jashoda Devi from Togi village said, “I have no money for rations to support my family. Will the construction of a toilet take priority? Now that I have no toilet, I cannot hope for work under NREGA!”
 
 Mukesh Nirvasit of the Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sanghatan showed TOI an order from the state commissioner of the Employment Guarantee Scheme of December 29 last year, warning that officials who were found guilty of offering work and payment to villagers over and above the 100 days mandated by the Act would be liable to be penalized – the extra payment made to workers would be recovered from them! 
 
 Imprecise instructions from the government is to blame for this shoddiness. On June 17 last year, after the state government declared 14,487 villages across 19 districts in Rajasthan drought-hit, the Centre issued a letter saying that the number of work days under NREGS could be extended to 150, from the regular 100 in these areas. On June 21, 2016 the state secretary of the rural development department informed local functionaries to widely publicize availability of 50 additional days of work under NREGA as a drought relief measure. The MIS for NREGA would also be updated to reflect this change.
 
 Confusion began when on November 30 last year the secretary of the disaster management department of the state government issued a letter listing 5656 villages in 13 districts drought-hit – there was no explanation for the sudden shrinkage in number of villages affected and no order that the earlier letter offering the 50 extra days of work in 14,487 villages was rescinded. On Thursday, villagers complained that payment under NREGA had become erratic in the past three years. Pani Devi from Togi had not been paid for work she did three years ago. Others said they had still to receive wages from nine months ago. 
 
