After ' ' and 'Madras Café',   is all set to don the producer’s hat yet again — in Bollywood as well as Marathi cinema. The Hindi movie, based on the   test conducted at Pokhran in 1998, will also feature him in the lead role. The actor’s production company, JA Entertainment, has tied up with 'Rustom' makers; KriArj Entertainment, founded by Arjun N Kapoor and Prernaa Arora, for the project. 
The makers say that director  , who has previously helmed ' ' and 'Tere Bin Laden: Dead Or Alive', has spent over three years doing research on the subject. The script of the movie, which took shape in John’s office, has been co-written by Saiwyn Quadros and Sanyuktha Chawla Shaikh, who were part of the 'Neerja' team. 
 John has also handpicked an efficient technical crew to bring on screen the authenticity of that time. He says, “I have never been in a hurry to produce films and have been searching for subjects that are engaging... stories that resonate with the current socio-political and economic mood of the country. This film fits in perfectly with my pursuit, and I am also happy to start my association with Prernaa and Arjun.”
 Abhishek adds, “'I’m glad to collaborate with John. His involvement as an actor and producer adds great value and credibility to my vision.”
 Arjun sums it up saying, “In spite of being such a big star, John is definitely one of the most down to earth and humble beings you will come across. He has established himself as someone who picks only meritorious content, and we are glad that we have been able to zero in on a subject that fits the bill perfectly. This story is about the resilience and gumption shown by our national agencies to achieve such a significant goal. This will be our tribute to those men and women who selflessly serve the country without expecting any accolades in return.”
 The film, which will go on floors on April 20, is scheduled to release on December 8, 2017. Apart from the ‘nuke’ film, John is all geared up for his maiden Marathi production, 'Savita Damodar Paranjpe', which is based on a critically acclaimed play by the same name. Directed by Swapna Waghmare, the film stars Subodh Bhave, Rakesh Bapat and Trupti Toradmal. 
 
  
  
 
 
