NOIDA: The city’s hangout quotient will reach a new high with five eateries getting bar licences in its entertainment hub— four at the   and another at the nearby Garden Galleria. An   said bar licences have been issued to United Coffee House, Swagath Restaurant, The Tandoori Village and SodaBottleOpenerWala, all at Mall of India. The other licence has been issued for Turquoise Cottage in Garden Galleria. The licences were given out on Friday.

 District excise officer Kuldeep Yadav said these bars will have to follow UP Excise Act. “They have been given licences to function from 12 noon to 12 midnight. They shall only serve liquor marked ‘for sale in UP’. Liquor marked for sale in Delhi, Haryana or any other states will be prohibited. Action will be taken against those who will not follow the rule,” Yadav said. The excise department also renewed 65 bar licences in Gautam Budh Nagar.
 
 N P Singh, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar, said the renewal of bar licences is an annual exercise. “We organised a camp at our office and renewed 65 licences. The licence holders earlier faced some difficulties while visiting the excise office for renewal. Recently we simplified the process and conducted the work at DM's office in Sector 27,” Singh said
 
 According to Yadav, seven other licence holders are in the process of completing their formalities for renewal. “Last year, we received five applications for new bars in Noida and Greater Noida. We have evaluated their applications and gave our nod. Licences will be issued to them soon,” he said.
 
 The annual fee for renewal of   for restaurants is Rs 6.34 lakh while the fee for hotels ranges from Rs 6 to Rs 18 lakh. The excise department has also identified 46 liquor shops located along the national and state highways that have to be relocated in view of the deadline issued by the Supreme Court on December 15.
 
 There are 500 liquor shops in the district and 46 of them are located along NH-24, NH-91 and also along the state highway 100 – from Jewar to Sikandrabad. “We have conveyed the SC order to the operators of these liquor shops. They need to be relocated or shut down by March 31,” said Yadav.
 
 Liquor kiosks along the 15-km stretch on NH-24 from Khoda to Lal Kuan and along the 30-km stretch on NH-91 from Lal Kuan to Sikandrabad that come under Gautam Budh Nagar district have to be shifted, sources said.The excise department collects Rs 650 crore from liquor sales annually.
 
 However, the department is expecting a fall of 20% in its revenue as the sale of liquor from the roadside kiosks is higher than from other shops.
 
