Bhopal: Yet another big cat was run over by a speeding train at the Budhni-Midghat section of the Railways in Sehore district of Madhya Pradesh, just a few kilometres away from Bhopal.

 With this, the number of   deaths in the state has risen to 35 since 2016, even as forest minister Gauri Shankar Shejwar had been overlooking recommendations of his own department to post wildlife experts to manage core habitats of the big cats.
 
 The carcass of the semi-adult tiger was found by loco pilot of the goods train driver at around 7.40am on Saturday between pole number 10 and 12. Forest officials say that three villages located in the Midghat area are compounding problems in maintaining the tiger habitat. 
 
 A tiger was found dead on this very spot on February 23. Sources said that a wrong chain fencing around the Midghat railway track was a major reason behind frequent casualties of tigers at this region.
 
 In 2015, another adult male tiger was hit by a speeding train and had succumbed to its injuries due to an undue delay on the part of the forest department’s rescue team. The tiger was found on the same place near the Mid-ghat area, close to Ratapani forest area, which still awaits a notification as a tiger reserve from the state government.
 
 Ratapani, which recorded a population of eight breeding tigers, has not yet been notified as a tiger reserve despite an in-principle approval from the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) in 2008. Ratapani is spread over 890sqkm in Bhopal-Raisen forest division.
 
 It is being delayed to facilitate developmental projects in the area, said sources. NHAI wants to widen the existing lane of National Highway-12 from Bhopal to Bareli through Ratapani. Work is also underway on the Obaidullagunj-Rehti Road that passes through Ratapani.
 
 Recently, the Madhya Pradesh high court admitted a petition over the delay in notifying Ratapani area as a tiger reserve. The petition was moved by RTI activist Ajay Dubey through his counsel Siddhartha Radhelal Gupta. Notices were served to the department of forest, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, State Wildlife Board and the environment ministry asking them to reply as to why the proposed Ratapani reserve has not been notified till date despite NTCA approval.
 
 A proposal for the notification of Ratapani as a tiger reserve was moved in the backdrop of rising tiger population in the sanctuary. Big cats have repeatedly strayed into the Kerwa forests in Bhopal district, resulting in rising man-animal conflict.
 
 
