JAIPUR: The state government will start   in May. After receiving a nod from chief minister Vasundhara Raje, the   and   (UDH) has prepared a  . The orders are expected to be released in April first week. 

 The department has not fixed any duration for the Shivir (camps) and it would continue along with the departmental work. "The Congress government organised   for a limited time, due to which many plot owners were not able to procure lease deeds. This time, the department has decided not to have any fixed duration," said an official. 
 
 A senior department official informed, in May the department will organise camps where residents can start depositing their work related documents. During the camp, government will also provide rebate to lease money and urban development (UD) tax depositors. 
 
 Sources said that it has been proposed to regularise the colonies developed on agricultural land before June 17, 1999. Colonies where more than 75% construction work has been done will be considered for regularisation. Plots on or above 20 feet roads will also be regularised. Plots purchased with unregistered documents in these colonies before December 31, 2015 will be regularised at normal rates, whereas people who bought plots after December 31, 2015 will have to pay double regularisation charges.
 
 In its proposal, the UDH department has also incorporated provisions to regularise colonies developed on government land. Colonies developed on government land till August 15, 2009 will also come under regularisation. Moreover, the department will not regularise plots built over more than 300 square yards in these colonies.
 
 "While issuing the lease deeds, urban local bodies will ask plot owners to submit an undertaking that the land of their plot will be taken to construct road if required. This will also be written on their lease deeds," said the official.
 
 Similarly, UDH had earlier proposed that commercial shops situated on 40 feet road and constructed illegally in residential areas will be regularised. Local bodies had to conduct a survey and shortlist properties for regularisation. However, these shops will not be regularised now as high court recently put a ban on them.
 
