LUDHIANA:   (LCLS) on Tuesday organized its annual meet at a restaurant on Pakhowal Road. Highlight of the event was interaction of the NGO members with four newly elected MLAs from the city, including Bharat Bhushan Ashu (MLA West), Simarjit Singh Bains (MLA Atam Nagar), Kuldeep Singh Vaid ( ) and Sanjay Talwar (MLA East). The session turned out to be an interesting one as some of the questions put forward by the ladies bowled over the legislators and put them in a tight spot.

 Though most of the discussion was in lighter mood, but there was an awkward moment when replies to some questions by the MLAs did not go down well with the audience and situation turned awkward. In case of a question directed at Bains by the audience on the problem of littering by car accessory shops in Model Town that fall under his constituency, Bains said that as a politician he was helpless because the shopkeepers in question were his voters and he could not offend them and break his vote bank. The MLA also went ahead and said situation like this had become an everyday affair for Indian politicians and has has risen out of fear of loosing votes. The reply created an uproar amongst the LCLS members and some of them lodged their protest with Bains and other MLAs and also advised them to justify the power given by the people to them. 
 
 Meanwhile, Bains congratulated the NGO members for being so aware and exercising their right to vote. 
 
 In another interesting question NGO founder and president   asked Ashu why the politicians and parties did not remove congratulatory and other posters in a time-bound manner. In reply, the MLA said he was in not favour of posters and defacing properties and has ensured in his constituency that the posters were pasted within permissible limits and without defacing public and private properties. 
 
 On delay in developing green belts in the city, Ashu said that the work on the green belt at BRS Nagar had began and DAV School had been roped in to help maintain the stretch. Speaking on the issue of increasing traffic on roads, the MLA advised the LCLS members that they should also contribute in becoming a part of the solution and adopt the practice of carpool. He added that he and his fellow MLAs from Ludhiana had already started doing it whenever they go to Chandigarh to attend assembly meetings. 
 
 On a request made by the NGO members that electronic crematoriums should be set up in cremation grounds located at Model Town Extension and Dandi Swami, MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid said that electronic crematoriums had already been set up at some places in Ludhiana but residents had not shown any interest in them and keeping in view public sentiments no further installations had been made. 
 
 The ladies also highlighted the problem of illegal eateries on South City road that cause problems of littering and unchecked consumption of alcohol by customers. Vaid assured them that he would get the matter investigated by the departments concerned and if anyone was found flouting norms, a strict action would be taken against them.
 
 The members also discussed the matter of government schools being in pathetic condition and requested the MLAs to find a solution to the problem. MLA Sanjay Talwar assured them that the government would provide full support to the schools in terms of finance and infrastructure and also try to rope in corporate sector for adoption of these schools. He also urged the ladies to come forward for adoption either individually or as a group.
 
 Meanwhile, the NGO members also urged the young legislators to implement ban on use of red beacons by politicians strictly, beautify entry and exit points of railway station and relocate illegal tobacco vends situated near station. It was also requested that MLAs should try and convince the municipal corporation to set up a recycling plant for rubble hat is lying across the city and along with this government and MLAs should encourage rain water harvesting and put an end to stray dog menace. It was also decided that the LCLS members and the four MLAs will meet once again after 3 months to check on the progress on demands made by the NGO to them. 
 
