NAGPUR: Like the   and  , even the forthcoming   (NMC) elections are no different in terms of  , being in fray. From minor offences like unlawful assembly to serious crimes like outraging woman’s modesty, kidnapping, murder and attempt to murder, there are various types of cases registered against some contestants who would be trying their luck this time in the polls to be held on February 21.

 All of them have mentioned their offences in their respective affidavits filed with the state election commission (SEC), which are available on their website. Interestingly, all the major parties, including ruling BJP and opposition Congress, fielded such candidates even as they made tall claims about not entertaining those with criminal backgrounds.
 
 Those who have serious offences include Shiv Sena’s Anil Dhawade from Ward No 22, Jagdish Lanjewar from Ward 25, Khan Javed Khan Mohammad from Ward No 27, Angad Hironde from Ward no 24, and Tausif Ahmed from Ward No 19. Some contestants like Mamta Bodele are facing inquiry under Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB).
 
 While Dhawde faced murder charges, Lanjewar and Khan were booked for outraging women’s modesty. Hironde and Ahmed are facing charges of attempt to murder. Dhawde is also facing charges under forgery, dishonesty, using forged documents and criminal intimidation. Lanjewar is facing charges for punishment for voluntarily causing grievous hurt.
 
 The list of candidates sharing criminal background also have many big and popular names like that of mayor Pravin Datke, former standing committee chairmen — Sandip Joshi, Narendra Borkar and Ramesh Shingare, along with leader of ruling party Dayashankar Tiwari and others.
 
 Datke faced charges for deterring public servant from discharge of his duty, punishment for voluntarily causing hurt and endangering life or personal safety of others. Even Joshi faced similar charges with addition of mischief causing damage to the amount of Rs50. Tiwari and Shingare are facing charges for cheating and dishonestly along with forgery of valuable security and will. NCP’s Gwalbanshi faced charges under criminal breach of trust.
 
 Borkar has as many as 16 offences against his name including endangering life or personal safety of others. He is followed by Dhawade with 11 offences against his name and Tiwari with seven. 
 
 A majority of candidates sharing criminal background are booked for unlawful assembly, rioting, destruction of government property and obstructing the government servant from doing his duties. All those happened when they were protesting for the cause against the government or local body.
 
 Some of the candidates including Harish Gwalbanshi, Kamlesh Chaudhari, Pravin Sadekar, Ravindra Bhoyar and Prashant Dhawad are facing charges under Section 294 for playing obscene acts or songs.
 
