NEW DELHI: The   asked the Centre and several state governments on Monday to submit their responses to a PIL seeking return of 90% of the 4842 hectares of land to farmers, which was acquired for setting up of   ( ) but has been lying unused.

 A bench, headed by Chief Justice  , sought response from the Centre, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka,  , Bengal and   on a petition by AP-based   ‘SEZ Farmers Protection & Welfare Association’.
 
 In   alone, the government had acquired 2048 hectares for SEZs but only 4.13 hectares has been utilised.
 
 Taking a leaf out of the cancellation of land acquired in   for Tata’s Nano car project that was ordered by the court to be returned to farmers, despite the farmers having been paid compensation, senior advocate Colin Gonsalves sought a direction from the SC to the governments to return unused land to the farmers who are still in possession of the land.
 
 Acquisition of land for SEZs, a process which started in the 90s and gathered momentum in the first decade of the millennium, triggered a backlash leading to the enactment of a law designed to deter takeover of land without adequate compensation as well as rehabilitation of owners.
 
 Quoting a CAG report, the NGO said: “Of the 50 SEZs approved for the states, only 15 are operational, six have been denotified and 29 are still to start commercial activity. Of the 12.47 lakh job opportunities these SEZs were intended to create, only 42,000 have come true.”
 
 The petitioner said 77% of the notified SEZ land was concentrated in four states — AP, Gujarat, Maharashtra and TN — since the SEZ Act, 2005 came into effect. “These states have acquired 35,415 hectares of the total 45,782 hectares acquired by 20 states.”
 
 Presenting a larger picture to the court, the NGO said the land acquired for SEZs was a fraction of the total land acquired by governments till date under the redundant Land Acquisition Act, 1894.
 
 “According to a government committee, more than 2.1 million hectares of agricultural land has been transferred for non-agricultural purposes during 1990-2003. However, there are no details on how much of these are acquired by the government from poor and marginalised farmers, majority of whom were tribals, Dalits and poor,” it said.
 
 The NGO requested the court to direct the governments to conduct a social impact study on farmers and their dependents whose land was acquired for SEZ purposes and determine the compensation due to them for rendering them jobless.
 
 The petitioner alleged that those industries which were allotted land in the SEZs at concessional prices have waited for years for price of the land to escalate and then mortgaged the land with banks for getting fat loans.
 
 “The loan so obtained has been diverted for purposes other than setting up the industry in the SEZ,” the NGO said and requested the court to order a   probe.
 
