COIMBATORE: Students of rural   are at a disadvantage when it comes to the  , since they don't have access to   to prepare for the national eligibility cum entrance test. The state government does not have the money and the manpower to provide coaching. Besides, there are very few private institutes which the poor cannot afford. 

 The Tamil Nadu government has been pushing to exempt the state from the national entrance test. According to the status quo, it is mandatory for all states to follow NEET for admission into MBBS. While medical aspirants in urban areas have signed up for coaching classes offered by private institutes early this year or last year, it remains to be seen how rural students are going to prepare for the exam.
 
 While government school teachers defend the syllabus followed in government schools, saying that it is on a par with that of CBSE schools, rural students have no exposure to writing competitive exams. "Most rural students study in government and government-aided schools. And, nearly all of them have no experience in writing competitive exams," said a government school teacher from Pollachi. "The state government neither has the money nor the manpower to provide training. And, private coaching centres are beyond affordability," said the teacher. 
 
 Students are unable to prepare for the test on their own, because they don't have access to model question papers. Another problem is that most government school students pursue their education in their mother tongue Tamil," said the general secretary of state platform for common schools, P B Prince  . "There are at least 50,000 medical aspirants from government schools. Some of these students also support their families financially by working part time. Will they have the additional time to prepare for the test?" questioned Gajendra Babu. 
 
 However private coaching centres seem to be doing their bit to help rural students. "Realising the need for coaching in the rural areas of Tamil Nadu, we have opened new centres in Trichy and Madurai this year. Several students from 50-70km radius come and take coaching during the weekends," said the assistant director of  , Jean Thomas John. "Most of them come on Saturday afternoon, attend coaching on Saturday evening and Sunday morning, and return on Sunday evening. Many have signed up for the 40-hour-long crash courses that begin on April 3, and plan to stay in a hostel for the that period," said John. 
 
