HYDERABAD: The   (GHMC) on Monday claimed its second implosion of an unauthorized five-storied building, which came up in the buffer zone of  , at   was a success. On the contrary, the structure still stands with slabs of two floors intact, tilting to a side like the Leaning Tower of Pisa.

 
 After the four-hour operation, the GHMC issued a statement, “ All the floors crumbled as planned (sic).“ However, the civic body's second attempt to pull down the structure flopped. The GHMC, which has about 200 engineers, including structural engineers, left the implosion to a handful of town planners and a private agency with unproven record in the city.
 
 The first attempt to pull down the illegal structure, which cropped up in the full tank level of the Sunnam Chervu near SIET colony near Seri lingampally, was made by Uttam Blastech on May 8. 
 
 The agency's first implosion failed as explosives were planted in the stilt and first floor of the structure. After the botched first attempt, the GHMC called structural engineer Prof NV Ramana Rao of JNTUH to visit the site. He said the blast would have been more effective if it was done in a scientific manner and suggested removing all loose bricks before attempting the second implosion. 
 
  
  
 The agency representatives drilled holes on all columns of the ground, first, second and third floors and packed them with explosives. Even after that, the implosion could not bring down the structure.
 
 Though the entire building was supposed to fall, the second implosion left the fourth and fifth floors in tact. The GHMC has been thinking about creating a separate enforcement wing to bulldoze unauthorized structures, but has failed to to carry out such operations with available technologies.
 
 Sources said the selection of Uttam Blastech was a wrong decision and the agency failed to assess required quantity of explosives. They claimed the agency too did not utilise services of experienced personnel as they agreed to raze the building for competitive price of `55,000.
 
 GHMC commissioner B Janardhan Reddy , mayor   and deputy mayor   distanced themselves from the second implosion and didn't visit the site.
 
 “This is the first time this method has been used in Telangana and AP. This is a very common and a perfectly safe method for demolishing buildings in the West,“ Janardhan Reddy said. The He failed to explain why the structure still stands.
 
