The ban on   during   imposed by the   has evoked positive responses from the public, who pointed out that the sport is dangerous. Our readers feel that the focus should be on promoting other traditional cultural programmes. Here's what they have to say:

 Spread awareness on adverse effects
 
 The ban on cock fights is a landmark decision. The sport is against humanity. Crores of rupees are earned by betters while the birds die in the end. Such inhuman activities should be condemned. The organisers of such events should bear it mind that times have changed. Life in villages has drastically changed. Therefore, holding on to age-old habits is not in the larger social interest. Several families have gone bankrupt due to cock fight betting. Cock fights have also become a political game in certain corners. To weed the menace out, awareness camps should be held in every nook and corner of vulnerable areas to educate the people on the adverse effects of such dangerous sports.
 
 TV Nageswara Rao, Social activist
 
 Betting on cock fights should be checked
 
 Cock fight, bull fight, and   are all traditional games. But of these, cock fighting is the most dangerous sport which has triggered several wars in ancient times. Palanadu and Macharla war as well as the Bobbili and Vizianagaram war resulted from cock fights. I truly support the ban on such a sport by the High Court. Betting on innocent birds and animals is also an inexcusable crime and offenders should be severely punished. We must have compassion towards animals. Voluntary organisations should work together and support the government in its attempt to stop such disgraceful sports.
 
 Visveswara Rao Vasantala, teacher
 
 Most people appreciate the ban
 
 Sankranti is one of the biggest festivals of south India but it is losing its flavour. As years pass by, we are seeing a drastic change in our culture. The High Court declaring a ban on cock fights may have a negative impact on the festive mood, but most people appreciate this decision as they don’t want this sport to be passed on to the future generations. Instead, we can pacify the aggression by opting for other alternatives like cultural programmes. The government can also deploy special teams to highly intensified areas where cock fights are likely to be organised and ensure that they are prevented.
 
 Ganivada Lohit, Student
 
 Ban is a welcome move
 
 Cock fighting is a popular sport in the rural areas where the birds fight with each other with blades tied to their feet. The HC ban is a welcome step as the traditional sport leads to a lot of bloodshed and death of the birds. Betting on such games should also be banned as the entire sport is a crime against animals. People should change their outlook. Instead of indulging in violent sports, they should enjoy other traditional games like kite flying, bullock cart race, singing and dancing programme . 
 
 Surendra Kumar Madan, Businessman
 
 Ban all cruelty against animals
 
 Banning only a sport will not help curb cruelty against animals. If the High Court really wants to bring about a change, the judges should order the closure of abattoirs where animals are slaughtered daily. Is killing animals for meat not cruelty? Goats and chickens are publicly slaughtered in front of kids and this has a great impact on them. Under these circumstances, cock fights during Sankranti should be banned only when slaughtering animals is made a criminal offence. 
 
 K Nehru Patnaik, Retired railway employee
 
 For the coming week, we turn the spotlight on the service charge on debit/credit cards. Even as the government wants to promote digital payments, should service charge on card transactions be waived off to encourage public? Pick up the megaphone and SAY IT LOUD! If you feel strongly about this or any other issue, mail us at sayitloudvizag.toi@gmail.com. Do not forget to send in a photograph of yours along with your opinion and phone number.
 
