Months after Melania   was accused of plagiarising Michelle Obama’s speech, The Donald is now being accused of copying someone far less inspirational – the Batman villain  . The new POTUS’ inauguration speech on Friday had an uncanny echo of the supervillain when he holds Gotham hostage in The Dark Knight Rises. Could it be a premonition of what is in store for the US, or is Trump just a Batman fan?

 A part of Donald Trump’s inaugural speech sounded eerily similar to Bane’s in 'The Dark Knight Rises'. Soon after the speech, in side-by-side comparisons, reports pointed out that a part of Trump’s address was similar to what Bane told the people of Gotham. 
 
  In his Friday’s address, Trump told the crowd, “Today’s ceremony, however, has a very special meaning, because today, we are not merely transferring power from one administration to another or from one party to another, we are transferring power from Washington and giving it back to you, the people.” In the film, once he takes control of Gotham, Bane says, “We take Gotham from the corrupt! The rich! The oppressors of generations who have kept you down with myths of opportunity. And we give it to you, the people.” 
  
 Trump further said, “For too long, a small group in our nation’s capital has reaped the rewards of the government while the people have borne the cost. Washington flourished, but the people did not share in its wealth. Politicians prospered, but the jobs left and the factories closed. Their victories have not been your victories. Their triumphs have not been your triumphs, and while they celebrated in our nation’s capital, there was little to celebrate for struggling families all across our land. This moment is your moment. It belongs to you.” Compare this to Bane’s speech, which went on like, “Gotham is yours... Step forward. An army will be raised. The powerful will be ripped from their decadent nests and cast out into the cold world. Courts will be convened. Spoils will be enjoyed. Blood will be shed. The police will survive, as they learn to serve true justice. This great city... it will endure. Gotham will survive.” 
 (PTI)
 
  
  The new POTUS' inaugural speech had eerie similarities with the supervillain Bane's in The Dark Knight Rises. The FLOTUS, however, chose a more appropriate inspiration, and channeled ex-First Lady  
 
 
 The new FLOTUS, Melania Trump, stepped out in a powder blue jacket and dress on Friday, which she paired with a pair of gloves and stilettos. The look had a very 1960s feel to it, immediately triggering comparisons between her and former first lady and style icon, Jackie Kennedy. In fact, Melania’s outfit was very similar to what Jackie wore to her own husband’s inauguration in 1961. Melania has also stated that she looks to Jackie as a role model, but are those shoes just a little too big for the former model to fill?
 
 
 On the morning of President Trump’s inauguration, Shia LaBeouf kicked off a protest of his own in the form of an art performance. The actor’s latest project, which was launched on Friday, has a camera installation set up at the Museum of the Moving Image in New York. Passers-by are encouraged to stop before the camera and participate by repeating the words “He will not divide us.”   was also in the crowd and recited the five-word chant. A website for the movement says the camera will livestream for the next four years, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. 
 
 “Commencing at 9am on January 20, 2017, the day of the inauguration of the 45th President of the United States, the public is invited to deliver the words ‘HE WILL NOT DIVIDE US’ into a camera mounted on a wall outside the Museum of the Moving Image, New York, repeating the phrase as many times, and for as long as they wish,” an official site for LaBeouf’s project reads.
 
  
  Shia (L) uploaded a pic of Jaden Smith from the protest (R)
 
 
 Most of Hollywood has been very vocal about their disapproval of  . And obviously enough, they took to social media to voice their concerns and unhappiness after his inauguration 
 
  
  
 
