KOLKATA: A   on Saturday night following an altercation with his neighbours at the edge of the city's  . Police have so far arrested four for the  . Two more are absconding.

  (40), the deceased, was a resident of Dakshin Para -a locality tucked between the highrises of Sector V and Kestopur. Sources said Tapas had a running feud with his neighbours -the Sardars -since last October when he had refused to pay subscription for Kali Puja. A few days ago, they were back demanding subscription, this time for Saraswati Puja. Maiti refused again but allowed them to use a goods vehicle he owned.
 
 On Saturday night, Tapas was himself at the wheels when the locals took the idol for immersion. At the immer sion ghat, heated words were exchanged between him and the members of the Sardar family. After this, Tapas left in a huff. When his wife Batasi stepped out later in the evening,   allegedly threw expletives at her. Hearing this, Tapas stepped out and protested. “Chhaya did not calm down. Instead, she continued to shout. She then called her sons to teach Tapas a lesson,“ said Sabita Mandal, a neighbour. According to locals, Chhaya's sons Ajay and Vijay and daughters Papiya and Shakuntala rushed to the spot and started dragging Tapas. A local -Milan Mandal -also joined. “After throwing him to the ground, they started to kick and stomp on him. I was standing a few meters away . When my son tried to intervene, they beat him as well,“ said Sabita.
 
 Witnesses said Ajay , Vijay and Milan repeatedly stamped Maiti on his chest. “They were wearing shoes and drove the heels into Tapas's chest. They kicked him in the ribs and abdomen region as well. When some women tried to stop them, Chhaya's daughters beat them up,“ said Sabita. Though Tapas groaned, the trio continued to kick him till he stopped moving. When Tapas was taken to the hospital, he was declared dead.
 
 By the time police reached the spot around 3.30am, Chhaya's sons and daughters and Milan had fled. Police later arrested Chhaya and her son Vijay. By Sunday afternoon, Papiya and Shakuntala were also arrested.
 
