NEW DELHI: Stung by successive electoral defeats in Assembly elections, the   has decided to target reserved constituencies in six states, which go for elections over the next 18 months.
 
  Congress would employ a separate strategy to target about 294 reserved constituencies – 143 reserved for Scheduled Castes and 151 for Scheduled Tribes – in Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh,  ,   and Madhya Pradesh. While   and   would go for elections end of this year, Rajasthan,   and Madhya Pradesh are slated for polls in 2018.
  
  According to sources, Congress has decided to take a leaf out of Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi’s Dalit mission in Uttar Pradesh and replicate it in the 294 reserved constituencies of the six election-bound states. The mission, called Leadership Development Mission within party circles, involved identification of 3-5 candidates in each Dalit constituency and giving them tasks over a year. Each candidate was mapped and rated. Finally, a recommendation was made for tickets to the screening committee. While this was followed for all SC seats, the party has now decided to follow the strategy for both SC and ST seats in the five states.
  
  With less than six months to go for Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh elections, the party would employ a slightly different version of the exercise in the two states. A senior Congress leader told ET, “The SC and ST departments have already been told about identification of a panel of at least three candidates. The central leadership has insisted on grassroot leaders. These leaders would be interviewed and their professional experience would be seen after giving them shortterm tasks. We cannot expect the state departments to give elaborate tasks at this time.”
  
  In the remaining four states, the party is kickstarting the exercise similar to UP experiment. Though Congress could not win a single reserved seat in UP even after its long drawn-out exercise, the party leaders are finding succour in Congress’ increased voteshare in the reserved seats. The party has already started the mission in Rajasthan and would initiate it next in Karnataka.
  
  The party has decided to include ST reserved seats in this comprehensive exercise because of Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. In Chhattisgarh, former Congress leader   has floated his party Chhattisgarh Janata Congress and is concentrating on 34 ST constituencies. “In Chhattisgarh and MP, Congress is eyeing power trying to tap the anti-incumbency sentiment. But Jogi’s party, as per internal calculations, can seriously mar our chances. So we need to concentrate on the reserved seats,” said the leader. 
