KAPURTHALA: After hundreds of members of   community announced that they would give up Hinduism as their religion in   of sage Valmiki in a TV serial ‘Sankat Mochan Mahabali Hanuman,’ the district police have recorded their statements in order to register a case.

 However, the community members who announced to give up their religion, said their decision was final and there was no question of returning and that they would follow their own Adi Dharam.
 
 Earlier, on July 22, the aggrieved members of the community had taken out a procession carrying pictures of Hindu gods and goddesses to be immersed in flowing water but had been stopped by the police and pictures were handed over to a Hindu priest.
 
 The members of the community have been demanding registration of a case against the producers of the serial. “Sentiments of the Valimiki community are repeatedly hurt and Bhagwan Valmiki is portrayed in a poor light. Enough is enough and now we have started the movement to give up Hinduism,” said Lakhbir Lankesh, who heads   in Kapurthala.
 
 Several young members and women of the community participated in the July 22 procession. They were asked to bring along pictures of the Hindus gods and goddesses as a symbolic gesture of give up the religion. “We wanted to immerse these pictures respectfully in the fresh flowing water as is the norm after these families agreed that they would stop worshipping Hindu gods and goddesses,” said Lakhbir.
 
 “In this serial Maharishi Valmiki was shown worshipping Lord Ram and goddess Lakshmi. Then it was shown that Hanuman was dictating Ramayan to the Maharishi. It is against the legend and history,” said a written statement given by the Valmiki organizations.
 
 “There were around half a dozen organizations of the community in the procession. We now intend to spread the movement to other places also,” said Sabi Lankesh, a local volunteer of Adhi Dharam Samaj.
 
 However, another activist Vikrant Lankesh said if police registered the case, it might lower the tempers of the community members.
 
