CHENNAI: Actor-turned-politician   made a surprise appearance in RK Nagar on Friday evening, alongside   (Amma) candidate TTV Dhinakaran and lashed out against former chief minister  .

 The action heroine and former TRS MP, was in the BJP for several years and joined Congress in 2014. However, over the last few months, she has been vocal in her support for AIADMK general secretary  . Friday’s fiery attack on Panneerselvam in   is only the latest in her ongoing tirade against him.
 
 “Only one man, Panneerselvam keeps lying. For political selfishness, he is telling lies. You are all aware of what he did yesterday,” she said. She was referring to a campaign by some supporters of the O Panneerselvam faction, who went around certain areas of the constituency with a plastic fibre replica of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa's ‘body’, placed in a coffin.
 
 Criticising the ‘coffin campaign’ she alleged Panneerselvam is “tarnishing our reputation.” “He can only be a betrayer,” the former action star said.
 
 A spokesperson for Panneerselvam faction had clarified that the coffin campaign did not have their support and that former minister K Pandiarajan had advised the group to stop the rally.
 
 In February this year, Vijayashanthi had backed Sasikala, during the tussle between the latter and Panneerselvam. Vijayshanthi had appealed to Union minister M Venkaiah Naidu to ensure no subversion of the Constitution took place and had said that Naidu should ensure Sasikala, who had the majority support, becomes chief minister. She had also criticised Panneerselvam as “an opportunist” at the time, and alleged that he was “creating confusion” by saying that a probe on Jayalalithaa’s death would be initiated.
 
 Later, she also found fault with Tamil Nadu governor C Vidyasagar Rao, her former BJP colleague, for the suspense over the floor test in the wake of a split in AIADMK. She has said there was “much avoidable uncertainty” in TN because the Governor was “taking too much time” even when it was “clear whom he should invite to form the government”.
 
 Later, after the Edappadi K Palaniswamy ministry won the confidence motion in the TN assembly, the former MP congratulated him and alleged that “evil forces including OPS” had tried to create “problems leading to instability” and had praised Sasikala as someone who “safeguarded the party.”
 
