GANDHINAGAR: In a surprise move, the state government has taken away the authority of the forest department to regulate and sanction electric barbed wire fencing around farms and shifted the responsibility to the agriculture department.  , forest minister, revealed the information in the assembly in response to a question of Dehgam MLA Kaminiba Rathod.

 Wildlife and environment activists are worried that though the populist move may help the ruling party woo farmer votes in an election year, it may lead to proliferation of electric barbed wire fences, and endanger life and limb of both humans and animals.
 
 In response to various questions in the assembly, the state government had earlier admitted that more humans have been injured from electric barbed wire fences than animals in the three districts of Junagadh, Jamnagar, and Devbhoomi Dwarka. Government data shows that in 2016, in these three districts, there were 44 instances of human deaths or injuries from contact with electric barbed fencing, while such instances were 41 in case of animals.
 
 Vasava said that henceforth the agriculture department will give permission for fencing of fields. He also informed the assembly that so far, the government has received 7,000 applications for barbed wire and electric fencing and that financial aid for fencing of crop fields has been increased from Rs 219 per metre to Rs 300 per metre.
 
 The minister further said that under the cluster fencing projects, the state government has decided to give fencing subsidy to the tune of Rs 750 crore in the next three years. Of this, Rs 200 crore has been allocated in the budget for the year 2017-18. Under the new project, permission is given to farmers who form a group and apply.
 
 To protect their crops from wild herbivores like Neelgai, boars or pigs, farmers usually use electric barbed wire fencing. It also provides a barrier against wild carnivores like lions or leopards.
 
 Apparently, the government’s decision to shift the responsibility came after complaints from farmers that the forest department was rejecting applications for electric fencing and dragging their feet over permissions.
 
 A senior officer from the forest department said on condition of anonymity, “The forest department took into consideration the risks to schedule-I animals like lions, black buck or wild ass, before giving permissions for electric fencing. Lack of such consideration will increase incidents of electrocution of both human and animals.”
 
 “We have demanded that the opinion of the forest department be taken into account before the agriculture department gives final approval for any electric fencing,” said the official.
 
 Times View 
 
 There have been more human casualties (including those injured) than animals owing to electric barbed wire fences in 2016. Today there exists no strict procedures to enforce electric voltage standards for such fences. Electric barbed fences are meant to stun wild animals and not kill animals or humans. The forest department at least had competence to reject such fences if endangered species were in nearby sanctuaries. Instead of making the agriculture department an authority, the government should establish a competent technical team to inspect voltage of these fences and provide advice for cost effective fencing for such farms. 
 
