One is a middle-class, small-town boy from Bihar who comes to Delhi in order to achieve his dreams and the other, an upper-class, high-society Delhi girl. But love blossoms between the two in the most unexpected way. Whether the lovers unite in the end and their story culminates into something definite is what we have to watch out for. That’s Half Girlfriend for us — Mohit Suri’s upcoming movie. And just ahead of the film’s release, its lead pair,   and   were in town for the last leg of their promotions. Their film is adapted from Chetan Bhagat’s novel by the same name.
At a press conference held at a revamped multiplex in a city mall, the actors addressed everything from their shooting experience to sharing a camaraderie to even gorging on luchi and mishti doi as they touched base in Kolkata.
 While the trailers and the songs show the chemistry between the duo, filming at locations that were mentioned in the novel was also quite an enriching experience for both Arjun and Shraddha. “There’s a tremendous amount of effort that goes into the making of a film and in the process, you make so many memories. Once it releases, it’s 
 up to the audience to give their verdict. Their reaction is what we wait for anxiously which in turn helps us understand if our hard work has paid off or not,” said Shraddha.
 Arjun, who previously essayed the role of Krish Malhotra in 2 States, another adaptation of Bhagat’s novel, said, “I love the stories by  , but the most memorable experience was to be able to shoot at real locations that had a mention in the novel. It gave us a sense of realism and helped me get under the skin of Madhav Jha. It gives an organic texture 
 to the film. After Ishaqzade, to play a character who is so rooted and simple from within has been an eye-opening experience. Making films like these can be a very humanising experience and at the 
 same time, it can make you feel vulnerable.”
 Shraddha shared that when Mohit offered her the film, she said yes even before hearing the story. Later, when the director told her that it’s adapted from Chetan’s Half Girlfriend, she was absolutely blown over. She said the cherry on top is that both Arjun and her pictures are on the cover of the latest copies of the book.
 On being asked if she could relate to the character of Riya Somani, she said, “In the film, Riya is projected as a high-society girl who comes from a wealthy family and has everything under her feet. So people think that they she is very happy. But in actuality, there has been a certain situation in her life which makes her wary of falling in love. That’s why, when Madhav comes into her life, his simplicity strikes her. And I believe real happiness comes from the simple things in life, so I can very well relate to this aspect.”
 The actors also mentioned that since the film is adapted from a popular novel, it helps in reaching out to a large number of viewers. A lot of people like to read, but a lot more love to watch films since our country has always been a cinema-going nation. Bhagat has a massive following and when a film is made on one his books, those followers want to see how the tale is being shown on screen.
 With smiles on their faces and unending praises for the warmth and love they get from the people of Kolkata, Arjun and Shraddha bid adieu after posing for the shutterbugs.
 
 
