The Monday Night RAW after Payback opened with the coronation of the new RAW women's champion, Alexa Bliss. She proclaimed herself the 'Goddess' of WWE and went on to berate other women wrestlers in the rooster and then took on Bayley saying Bayley's family and cousins now have real model in her to look up to. Bayley did not take those words kindly and attacked Bliss which became a total melee in the middle.

 Alexa Bliss, Emma, Nia Jax and Alicia Fox beat Bayley, Sasha Banks, Dana Brooke and Mickie James via pinfall
 
 The scuffle was followed by an impromptu eight women tag match and Bliss cleverly evaded getting in the ring for most part of the match. Banks was punished by Jax before she found an opening and Bayley came face to face with Bliss. And the former champion took out all her frustration on Bliss and had the champion reeling with belly to back suplex. Jax broke the count, but she found herself outside the ring and Mickie James took flight from the top rope on the outside on Jax. A drop kick from Banks sent Emma out while Fox took the fight to Banks outside the ring. Bliss capitalised on the commotion and with a rake in the eyes followed a snap DDT on Bayley handed Bliss and her team victory.
 
  
  
 Luke Gallows beats Enzo Amore via pinfall
 
 After Enzo and Big Cass' surprise win over The Club at Payback, Gallows was out for revenge with one-on-one action against Enzo. Gallows dominated the match throughout concentrating on the arm of Enzo. Hammer lock, then a modified DDT had Enzo reeling. But Enzo came back with a bull dog off the apron and had the 2-count on Gallows with a small package. Enzo went up top and the distraction allowed Gallows to put away Enzo and earned the victory.
 
 After getting the better of Samoa Joe at Payback and slaying King of Kings at Wrestlemania,   asked for the Beast Incarnate   and The Universal Championship, but he was interrupted by the demon   and Balor stated the line to face Lesnar starts from him. The Lunatic Fringe Dean Ambrose joined the party saying The Intercontinental Championship is the number one title on RAW currently and anyone talking about going after a title, then it should be the IC title. The   and Maryse joined the fray and the match was made - The IC title No.1 contenders match between The Miz, Rollins and Balor, later in the night.
 
 Jack Gallagher, Akira Tozawa and Rich Swann beat Tony Nese, The Brian Kendrick and Noam Dar via pinfall
 
 Cesaro and Sheamus put down their beating up of Hardy Boyz to them stealing their moment at Westlemania and stealing the RAW Tag Team Championships and proclaimed that they don't set the bar but they are the bar. The Hardys showed up and went after the Shemaus and Cesaro only to see their opponents retreat.
 
  
  
 Apollo Crews beat Heath Slater via pinfall
 
 Titus Brand angle continued on with Apollo Crews as he picked up an easy win over Heath Slater with a sit out powerbomb with Titus O'Neal at ringside
 
 Injury update on Reigns and Strowman
 
 RAW General Manager   told the WWE Universe that Roman Reigns re-injured his ribs and Braun Strowman injured his rotator cuff during their physical match at Payback, but Angle was cut short by the Eater of the Worlds Bray Wyatt officially announcing his arrival on Monday Night RAW
 
 Austin Aires beat TJ Perkins via submission
 
 Austin Aires started hot but soon found himself tangled up on the top rope and TJP went to work on Aires' left knee. As the match progressed Aires' knee went from bad to worse. TJP went for a half crab off the tope rope on Aries' knee. Aires countered and then rallied with a heating seeking missile, three chops, gut buster, STO and a pendulum elbow. A snapmare was followed by a corkscrew elbow off the second rope but TJP targeted the bad knee and went for the detonation kick but Aries found a way to hook the Last Chancery and TJP tapped. But TJP was not done and took a cheap shot on Aires and proceeded for a knee bar on Aires.
 
  
  
 Intercontinental Championship No.1 contender's match: The Miz beats Finn Balor, Seth Rollins via pinfall
 
 Miz bailed out early with Rollins and Balor starting the proceedings, but Miz was in for a surprise as Balor and Rollins went after Miz. The A-Lister ate a combo from Balor and clotheline from Rollins before Balor and Rollins put on a clinic. Balor was bounced off the apron by Miz, but Miz was not allowed inside the ring by Rollins. Miz got himself in the middle and a kick to the head had Balor down on the mat. Rollins went up top for a frog splash, but Miz pushed him towards the barricade. Miz got himself on the aggressor's role but not for long. A hard bump were Rollins landed vertically on the side of his neck allowed Miz to controlled the proceedings. Balor got in to the act first with a Penalty Kick on Miz then a running drop kick on Rollins across the ring. 1916 on Rollins had Balor close to a win before Miz saved the match. Miz got a two-count on Rollins after targeting the bad knee followed by a DDT. Miz went for a figure four submission but ate a PK from Balor. 2-count on Miz and all three superstars were laid out with the Scramento Crowd chanting 'This is Awesome'. A double blocksuter by Rollins was followed by a frog splash on Balor. Again 2-count. Rollins then delivered Superplex on Miz followed by the Falcon Arrow but Miz kicked out at 2. Rollins took out Balor and Miz with the suicide dive before Samoa Joe put down Rollins with a Urinagi. Balor put Miz in position for the Coup de Grace with a drop kick to the corner, but another interfere from Wyatt meant Balor was in the middle of the ring after Sister Abigail and the A-Lister Miz pinned Balor to become the No. Contender for the IC title.
  
  
  
  
 
