AHMEDABAD: For Mohammed Jilani Ansari, 23, a resident of the Naxalism-hit   village in Jharkhand, prosperous   provided rich pickings in the online cheating game. Ansari, who has studied till clas 8, made more than 20,000 con calls in a year — most of them after demonetization. He targeted 15 states, and Gujarat received the highest number of calls, 4,458. He made 4,212 calls to Rajasthan and 2,745 to  . He made only 10 calls to Odisha. 

  Cyber cell officials said that since demonetization was announced in November 2016, many citizens switched to digital transactions, making them vulnerable to cyber thieves. “Though Ansari lives in a modest house, he owns a car and several two-wheelers,” a crime branch official said. 
 
 Crime branch sources said Ansari’s striking rate was remarkable. “He made about 200 calls a day. Every 10 to 15 calls, he managed to persuade the victim to give his ATM card number, CVV number, and the one time password,” said assistant commissioner of police, crime branch, Rajdeepsinh Zala. “He used the information to transfer money from the victim’s bank account to one the 34 e-wallets he had created with 10 different email IDs.”
 
 Inspector J S Geddam of the cyber cell and three team members nabbed Ansari from Bansmi. “He was brought to the city on Thursday night,” Geddam said. “We have recovered seven cellphones from him. Ansari has cheated people of Rajkot, Gandhinagar, Mehsana, Vadodara, Ahmedabad, Amreli, and Ankleshwar.”
 
 Crime branch officials said during his interrogation it has come to light that Ansari used to obtain SIM cards from Kolkata to call his victims. “Posing a bank official, speaking fluent Hindi and Gujarati, he would persuade his targets to believe that he needed the OTP to recharge their ATM cards,” an investigator added. “While talking to his targets, Ansari would sit in an open ground near his village to avoid being traced to his home.”
 
 Although Ansari doesn’t reveal anything about accomplices, crime branch sleuths suspect that Ansari was a part of a syndicate. “We are tracing the bank accounts to which Ansari had transferred money from his e-wallets,” Zala said. “The money he earned could run into crores. We are also probing whether Ansari has links with   or if his money was given to them.”
 
 
