When friends come together for music, it often results in magic. Be it Shankar Mahadevan, Ehsaan Noorani and Loy Mendosa, Vishal Dadlani and Shekhar Ravjiani, Hariharan and Leslie Lewis or Shaan Rahman and Vineeth Sreenivasan. In Mollywood, four childhood friends who started as part of a choir group in Mookkanoor, Angamaly, are now spinning their own magic in Mollywood.
 
 The team called   comprises Jim Jacob, Biby Mathew, Eldhose Elias and Justin James, and are the makers behind the chart-toppers from the film  , which had MG Sreekumar once again lending his voice to Mohanlal.
  
 For their upcoming venture  , the group has roped in none other than  . Jim says, “Our dream from the start was to work with legends but we never thought it would happen so soon.” The team had made their debut as composers only in 2015 with Just Married.
  
 On how they got to work with Yesudas, Jim says, “Once we finished composing the track Kandittum Kandittum, we played it out for Villain’s director B. Unnikrishnan. Coincidentally, all of us had Das sir in mind and Unni sir too agreed.”
  
 However, they first approached Vijay Yesudas for the song. “We owe Vijayettan tonnes of gratitude for making it possible,” says Eldhose. “We first sent him the song and after listening to it, he told us, ‘It’s a good track. Let me play it to Appa. I can always sing for you later but if Appa agrees to do this, it will be a big opportunity for you guys’.”
  
 Once the Gaana Gandharvan agreed, all four of them were over the moon but also tensed. “We were nervous wrecks when we arrived at Chennai for the recording,” says Eldhose. “But the Padma Vibhushan award was announced that morning and so Das sir was very happy when he came for the recording.”
  
 Biby chips in, saying, “Because we are beginners, he treated us affectionately and gave us some great advice. That made it all the more comfortable working with him.”
  
 While their previous film Oppam had a few melodious tracks, Villain has an eclectic mix, says Jim. “Kandittum Kandittum has a 90s feel to it. That’s because Unni sir’s brief was that people should not expect such a song in a thriller,” he says, adding that the playlist also features a western orchestral piece, a rock track and a club song.
  
 With four minds working, is it challenging? “We have been composing together since our formative years and so are in sync with our thoughts and music. While others would think that it gives room for a lot of confusion, it actually makes the process easier,” says Jim.
  
 In fact, till last year, only Jim and Biby were in Kochi while Eldhose was in Saudi Arabia and Justin in New Zealand. While Eldhose returned to Kochi in December, Justin still works abroad. So, how do they coordinate? “We have a set style of composing. For instance, one person doesn’t compose the entire song. Everyone will have their inputs. Even if all of us are at different places, we share the idea on our WhatsApp group and the rest of us then build upon that,” says Biby.
  
 Post the success of Oppam, 4 Musics is now flooded with projects. They will be composing for Jabbar Chemad’s Meezan and M Prashanth’s Sadirshyavakyam in Malayalam and will be making their Sandalwood debut with the Kannada remake of Oppam. “We also have a Tamil project coming up but the aim is to flourish in Malayalam film industry and work with great talents,” says Jim. “Also, next year we are hoping to embark on a world tour.”
 
