KOLHAPUR: The   to be granted by the   after the GST (goods and services tax)   in July will not help financially ailing civic bodies to  .

 The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) gets Rs 7 crore every month as compensation ever since the LBT (local body tax) was abolished. Now, GST will subsume the LBT and make the civic bodies completely dependent on the state government for finances. 
 
 The LBT was partially abolished in August 2015 and since then, the state government has been releasing monthly grants based on the average of revenue generated during 2011-2014 by the civic bodies. Civic authorities claimed that the compensation formula fixed after GST is the same as the one decided while abolishing the LBT.
 
 The KMC had levied LBT on each item sold in the city limit and the rates were fixed by the state government. Since January this year, the LBT compensation grant has seen cut by around Rs 1 crore.
 
 After the GST comes into effect, the KMC will have to give up its right to collect taxes on the items sold in the city. Instead, a separate department of the government will collect the tax from traders and businessmen. The idea of GST is to avoid different taxes being imposed on the same product in different areas across the country.
 
 A senior civic official said, “The government notification stated that the LBT compensation grant will be the average of the revenue generated in earlier years and there will be increase of 8% to 9% every year. In GST, the state government has decided to fix the base year of 2017 and 8% annual increase in the compensation grant.”
 
 On the floor of the state assembly, state finance minister   said on Saturday that the state government is ready to compensate the civic bodies for five years after the GST is rolled out and the financial autonomy of the civic bodies will not be in danger. The state government, barring taxes earned from few items, will be relying completely on the Union government for the grants. The civic officials feel that the Union government should release the grants directly to the civic bodies. 
 
 “Nowadays, the Union government releases grants directly to even village panchayats. In a similar manner, the funds should be given to the municipal bodies. Considering the compensation formula set by the state government, the KMC will get not more than Rs 10 crore every month. While abolishing the LBT two years ago, we had demanded compensation grant of at least Rs 12 crore considering the revenue generation potential,” said the official.
 
 Experts feel that the civic bodies should improve financial discipline to reduce the dependence on the state government. 
 
 V B Kakade, an economist from the city, said that the civic bodies will have to depend on the state government for funds after the GST rolls out. “However, civic bodies must improve budgetary finances and start searching for new revenue sources after GST. Also, the civic bodies need to be more professional henceforth. Though there are limitations on increasing other taxes, they must ensure people pay tax regularly,” he said. 
 
