CHENNAI: Keen on making life barrier-free for   facing embarrassment and discrimination at toilets in public places, the Madras high court has set about collecting details of laws, norms and procedures prevalent across the world.

 Hearing a PIL that sought exclusive toilet facilities for transgenders in public places, the first bench of Chief Justice   and Justice M Sundar said: “We feel that since the larger issue is involved, the prevalent practices on this behalf in other parts of the country or any international norms in this behalf can be placed before us. We, thus, appoint R Devaprasad, advocate, as amicus curiae in this matter, so that the amicus can also place material before us in this behalf.“
 
 The bench also issued notices to the Tamil Nadu government which sought two months' time to file a detailed counteraffidavit.
 
 In his PIL, advocate G Devarajan of Sembium here said there were about 10 lakh transgenders in the country as per the 2011census. In Tamil Nadu, members of the community were recognised as `third gender' and enjoyed statutory benefits, including loan for selfemployment scheme, sewing machines, temporary accommodation in Chennai for visitors, identity cards, free patta for land, allotment of houses, formation of self-help groups and ration cards. Transgenders also enjoyed back ward community (BC) benefits in education and employment.However, despite such benefits, they often faced ridicule or abuse at public places, said Devarajan. The absence of exclusive rest rooms and bathrooms in such places put them through great hardship, he added.
 
 “They are treated as untouchables, forgetting the fact that the moral failure lies in the society's unwillingness to contain or embrace different gender identities and expressions, a mindset which has to change,“ added Devarajan.Transgenders also faced challeng es in education, employment, training and opportunities, the PIL said, adding that the government should put in place measures to provide them proper medical care and separate public toilets. Devarajan said he was prompted to file the present PIL after his representations on September 12 and November 16, 2016, failed to elicit a response from the authorities.
 
 When the PIL was taken up for hearing, government pleader M   furnished a letter from the government seeking inputs from the director of social welfare on third gender welfare, and sought two months to file a detailed counter. The bench posted the matter to April 3 for further hearing. 
 
