JAIPUR: Former chief minister   accused chief minister   of playing vendetta politics as the   (ACB) arrested Jodhpur Development Authority’s ex-chairman Rajendra Solanki on Tuesday.

 Solanki faced charges of financial irregularities during his tenure at the development authority. The ACB arrested him after the Supreme Court stayed the anticipatory bail granted to him by the Rajasthan high court. Last month, on getting the anticipatory bail, Solanki was accorded a hero’s welcome by his supporters in Jodhpur.
 
 “State government filed special leave petition (SLP) against the anticipatory bail in Supreme Court today (Tuesday) out of vendetta politics. When the ACB has to file chargesheet in the case, the accused has to follow judicial procedure to prove his innocence,” Gehlot said in a statement issued after Solanki’s arrest.
 
 Gehlot asked chief minister Raje to name the development works undertaken in Jodhpur ever since she came to power three-and-a-half years ago. “She deliberately ignored Jodhpur and did not consider it appropriate to even tour the district all these years. Now, ahead of the elections (2018), the government is celebrating Republic Day and organising road shows at Jodhpur,” Gehlot said. The former chief minister added, “Fake cases are being booked. This is not a healthy tradition for a democracy.”
 
 The former CM leveled similar charges against the Raje-government when the ACB arrested ex-Congress MLA Jugal Kabra and half-a-dozen others for an alleged recruitment scam in Jodhpur’s   in January this year. He even talked of serious repercussions for the government officials investigating the case once the Congress returned to power. Solanki as well as the accused in   case are said to be close to the former CM.
 
 In the latest JDA case, Gehlot stated that BJP leaders were propagating Solanki carried out maximum development works in Sardarpura (Gehlot’s assembly constituency) in last six months of the previous Congress government in the state. “These allegations are baseless; is it a crime to carry out development works in an area?” the former CM asked, adding that maximum works during Solanki’s tenure were carried out in Jodhpur city, Soorsagar and Luni areas (all three constituencies elected BJP candidates in 2013).
 
 “With this kind of behaviour, the people of Jodhpur and Marwar will never forgive the CM (Raje). It would have been better if she had competed by carrying out more development works than the previous Congress government,” Gehlot said.
 
 
