AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat State   ( ) has ruled that luxury hotels cannot collect high extra charges from customers for serving bottled water. The forum insisted that the price of   charged must not exceed the   (MRP) printed on the label.

 On May 5, the commission ordered two city hotels to return the extra money charged from Sola resident Rohit Patel and pay him Rs 2,000 as compensation for the mental agony and suffering caused to him by the unfair trade practice.
 
 Patel had filed cases against the two hotels after he had to pay Rs 132 in 2015 for a mineral water bottle in  . The price mentioned on the bottle label was Rs 30. In another instance, he had to pay Rs 112 for bottled mineral water in Regenta Hotel. The hotel had charged service tax also. Patel raised the issue of overcharging with hotel managements but they told him that he was at liberty to lodge a complaint.
 
 Patel approached the Consumer Dispute Redressal Forum, Ahmedabad, alleging deficiency in service and unfair trade practice on the part of the hotels. However, last year the consumer forum rejected his complaints on the ground that it was an issue of fixation of price and hence it does not fall in the consumer court’s jurisdiction.
 
 Patel took the matter to the higher authority, GSCDRC. The hotel managements defended their case by submitting that the fixing of price is dependent on several factors, including the fact that bottled water is refrigerated and extra service is provided to serve water in this manner.
 
 The consumer commission said that the question of fixing of price does not arise in these cases as it is printed on the label. The hotels cannot charge extra on the pretext of providing additional service. 
 
 “A hotel keeps mineral water bottles in a fridge and provides to the customers when demanded. This does not mean that it is entitled to charge more than the price printed on the label. We are unable to agree with the hotel managements over recovery of higher charges,” the court said.
 
