Noida: Harshu Sethi, employer of the maid whose husband led a mob to Mahagun Moderne society on Wednesday morning, said she had found money being stolen from her purse frequently over the last six month since they engaged  .

 She said she found Rs 17,000 stolen recently and, on Tuesday evening, confronted Zohra. Harshu said when she told her she was captured on   cameras stealing the money to elicit a confession from her, Zohra admitted she had taken Rs 10,000. She then allegedly urged Harshu not to report the matter to facility management of the society as she would lose jobs in all other flats she worked. Zohra also told Harshu she could adjust this against her salary.
 
 Harshu, however, insisted she would report the matter to the facility management as it amounted to breach of trust. She said she then went inside to fetch a stole, asking Zohra to wait. But Zohra got scared and fled, leaving her mobile phone in the flat, Harshu said. She then visited reported the matter to the facility management and offered to deposit the maid’s phone. But the facility management returned the phone, saying they would handle the matter.
 
 “Being a responsible citizen, I reported to the society management and felt the matter would be resolved,” she said.
 
 Harshu then returned home, only to find Zohra’s husband visiting her flat later in the evening, around 9pm, with two security guards to ask about her whereabouts. Next morning, as they slept, the mob attacked the society. Harshu said they were woken up by neighbours. “This was the most difficult time for us. The mob broke the window panes of our flat and entered our house. We could not understand what was happening. We were also scared for the safety of our son. We locked ourselves in the washroom for an hour,” she said. Society residents rescued the family through the back door. Harshu said she believed Zohra had hatched the plot with her family and relatives. “She worked in several other houses in Moderne. Why did her husband come only to our flat?” she asked.
 
