Chandigarh: Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa, who upped the ante on Tuesday to seek a ticket for his wife, ex-MLA Charanjit Kaur by meeting Congress president Sonia Gandhi, claimed that Kaur enjoyed the support of Congress leaders in the Gurdaspur segment.

 Talking to TOI, he said four out of eight MLAs have been supporting Charanjit Kaur’s claim and five of the six candidates for whom he secured tickets in the assembly elections had won. “We did our bit to help the party do well in the area in the assembly elections. These leaders may not have been shouting from rooftops but their view can be taken,” he said.
 
 “Even senior party leaders from the area such as Aruna Chaudhary had said she would endorse her candidature and Tript Rajinder Bajwa too has said he has no objection to my wife’s candidature. I have been in touch with them to seek support for my wife for the 2019 Lok Sabha election and ex-MLA Ashwani Sekhri had also given his consent,” Bajwa said.
 
 Bajwa added that it was a myth that Gurdaspur was a Hindu seat. “Gurdaspur only looks for a good percentage as the constituency has almost equal votes of Hindus and Sikhs around 45-46%. Presently, out of nine assembly constituencies, five are being represented by Jat Sikhs in the area.”
 
 The Congress leaders rooting for Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar have been highlighting that he was a prominent Hindu face of the party and this would help Congress do well in the constituency.
 
 “I am a committed Congressman and will work for ensuring victory of whoever is chosen by the party. I have continued to work for the party in the state even after stepping down as the Punjab Congress president,” he said.
 
 “At a meeting with Capt Amarinder Singh before the Punjab assembly elections, it was agreed upon that my wife will contest the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Gurdaspur on a Congress ticket. In the presence of Central leaders of the party, Amarinder had acknowledged the fact that my wife had left the seat under the one-family, one-ticket policy of the party,” said Bajwa.
 
 
