BATHINDA: In Punjab’s NRI belt of Moga, there has been a spike in the cases of travel agents defrauding families wanting to settle their sons and daughters abroad. Three fresh cases were registered in the district on Tuesday, nearly a week after two such cases were registered on February 8.

 In February last year, there were nine such cases reported from the district. At that time, 22 persons, including 11 women, were booked and the victims had lost close to Rs 1.17 crore.
 
 Police cite the mushrooming of illegal travel agents for the high number of such frauds. Only 25 agents in the district are registered with the state government under the Punjab Prevention of Human Smuggling Act, 2012, shows official data. Still, sources in police say, there are more than 250 such agents operating in Moga.
 
 As per the Act, registration is necessary to avoid frauds.   of Fatehgarh Korotana village had given Rs 10 lakh to fly and settle abroad to travel agents Jaswinder Singh of Binjhal village near Jagraon and Mohammad Salim Khan of Aligarh in UP for sending his son   and daughter-in-law Jaspreet Kaur to the US. “The travel agents neither sent my son and daughter-in-law to the US, and neither did they return the money. Now, after thorough investigations, police have taken action against them by registering a case. We want our money back,” Sarbjit said.
 
  of the same village had given Rs 15 lakh to Jaswinder for immigrating to the US along with his wife,  . “We gave money to the agent nearly six months ago, but to no avail. We approached police in December; it took two months in registering a case. We want the agent to be arrested and make him return our money,” he said.
 
 Moga SSP Gurpreet Singh Toor said lots of people fall in the net of unscrupulous elements and flyby night travel agents and lose their hard earned money. “We have launched a drive to make people aware against paying to travel agents,” he said. He confirmed that three such cases of fraud were registered against agents on Tuesday and they had been handed over to the anti-human trafficking unit for further investigation.
 
