PUNE: Waiting by busy roads, hailing  , or even haggling with them over the fare, could soon become a thing of the past for the commuting public. 

 The Pune regional transport office (RTO) and autorickshaw unions have collaborated on developing a mobile application on the lines of popular taxi/auto aggregator services. The app is nearing completion, and could see daylight in two months. 
 
 Pune regional transport officer Babasaheb Ajri told TOI that they were calling it the ‘Pune auto app’ for the moment. “A city-based IT firm is developing the app, which is in its final stages. This was an initiative of different autorickshaw unions. The RTO is assisting them,” Ajri said. 
 
 The mode of payment will be similar to the taxi apps, and will give the user several options, like e-wallets and cash. While nothing is set in concrete, it is expected that the fare will directly be sent to the driver. “The RTO will decide the rates and fares,” Ajri added. 
 
 At the moment, around 45.000 autorickshaws are registered with the RTO to ply on the streets of Pune. A large number of them have signed up for taxi aggregator Ola’s auto service. “App-based transport services are the future. One must adapt or be left behind,” another RTO official said.
 
 Auto drivers are cautiously optimistic. 
 
 “I first need to understand the system,” said Mohammed Alaf Shaikh, who operates at Pune station. “And we should have the freedom to ply on meter too,” he added.
 
 Baba Shinde, president of the Maharashtra State Passengers’ and Goods Transport Association, said auto drivers are under no obligation to enrol. “Once the app is ready, the RTO will train the drivers on using it. We held detailed discussions with drivers, and expect at least 50% to sign up,” Shinde told TOI.
 
 Shinde added that the app will take around two months to become fully operational. “It’s being tested right now. Once the final product is ready, the company will demo it to us. Once the changes, if any, are incorporated, the service will be launched,” Shinde said. 
 
 He also stressed on the difference between their app and the other transport service apps. “Our app will be operated by the organization and overseen by the RTO,” he said. 
 
 He hopes that the app will give them an edge, given that the city’s transport landscape will undergo a change in the coming days. “There could be around 5000 e-rickshaws hitting the streets very soon. Drivers opting for app-based service from private companies too is on the rise. The fact that the application will be managed by a government agency (the RTO) could attract drivers,” Shinde further went on to say. 
 
 
