 can be cumbersome not just for you, but for your   too. Here’s how you can ensure they are comfortable during the sweltering heat.
 
  
 
  Cars tend to get extremely high on heat during the hot afternoons and so never leave your pet in the car, not even for a minute. You may feel that you’re only going to be gone for a while as you finish your chores while your pet waits in the car — you couldn’t have been more careless. In extreme cases, leaving your pets in hot cars could even cause them heatstroke or even worse, irreversible organ damage. If you happen to find a pet left in a car, you could help by taking the car number down and announcing in nearby places for the owner to come and save the animal. If you think the condition is worsening, you could even inform   and get them to help you. Says pet owner Madhura Deshmukh, “I have a dachshund which is not even very furry, and even she gets extremely worked up in summers — furry   have it the worst."
  
  
 
  Time your pet’s walks either early morning or post sundown. The heat can cause their skin to burn, just like ours and the hot roads can cause them a lot of pain. The best way to judge if it is okay for them to walk is to press your palm to the street for 30 seconds and check. If it is painful for you, it is definitely not suitable for your pet. Says student Shweta Jadav, “It is a simple concept—if something is not good for you, it isn’t good enough for your pet either. You wouldn’t be able to walk barefoot in the sun on the streets in the heat, neither can your pet. Pets communicate their discomfort, but in a different way.”
  
  
 
  Summers are never a good time to indulge your pets in rich foods. Says Leslin Bastian, “When my pet gets too irritated and bothered by the heat, I give her a mound of ice. I specially freeze this in a big vessel and leave it in her plate for her to lick. Not only does it cool her down it also keeps her busy.” For dogs specially, the diet is very restrictive and needs to be followed through. You can’t give them grapes and raisins even though they have great cooling down capacities for humans. You must also avoid feeding them chocolates, onions.
  
  
 
  Stray animals have it very hard and although you can’t keep them all at home, the least you can do is to ensure their wellbeing and safety in this heat. Have fresh, clean water filled out for them and kept in a cool, shady area where they can rest. You can also try spraying the area surrounding your home with water, from time to time, so that they have a cool place to rest at. For strays, you could also buy bags of dog biscuits that are cheaper and come in large quantities, these could help them beat the weakness that comes from heat.
  
  
 
  Summers are a great time to let your pets indulge in cool pool parties, if you have a pool at home. Another way to do this is to get the inflatable pools — however, this is only suggested if your pets don’t have very sharp claws. Pool parties are fun but need a lot of safety measures as well. You must try and ensure that they don’t gulp in a lot of chlorine water as it could upset their stomach. Very high chemical content could also cause irritation on their skin and inflammation too. As lawyer Pooja Bharadwaj says, “I generally keep my pet cool by spraying them with cool fresh water from time to time. You just need a regular spray bottle and keep spraying them every 20-25 minutes, wipe the excess water with a soft cloth.” 
