JAISALMER: 10 coaches of Ranikhet Express derailed near  , 16 km from Jaisalmer. Railway chief safety officer and expert engineers have started an  .

 The   is being investigated. Cold weather could also be a reason of the tracks giving way. It is to be mentioned that a large number of   are present in Jaisalmer and their role cannot be ruled out.
 
 Meanwhile, the incident has cut off Jaisalmer from the rest of the country. Railway has cancelled around a dozen trains coming from Bikaner, Jodhpur, Delhi and Jaipur to Jaisalmer. Work is on at war-footing to repair the tracks. By Sunday, the the traffic is expected to normalise.
 
 Arrival of Palace on Wheels in Jaisalmer on Sunday is also doubtful. Ranikhet Express that went from Jaisalmer to Kath Godam on Friday at 11.15pm got derailed between Jaisalmer and Thayat Hamira station. All passengers are safe. On getting information, administration, police and rail way officers reached the spot.
 
 BSF DIG Amit Lodha, who was also travelling in the train, said that around 11.15 pm on Friday near Hamira village, the train stopped suddenly and there was sand inside the train.Passengers got down the train and found that it had derailed. Due to sand, any major accident was averted as the train after derailing got buried in sand and did not overturn.
 
 On getting information, district collector Matadeen Sharma, SP Gaurav Yadav and others reached the spot.
 
 Officers faced a lot of problem in reaching the spot as there is no road leading to the spot. Officers took care of the passengers and made arrangements to send them back to Jaisalmer through cars and jeeps.Ambulances were also pressed into service.
 
 Guard Kewal Chand said that the train was moving approximately at a speed at 100 kmph. When it began jolting, the driver realised that there was some problem and applied emergency brakes. As a result, 10 coaches of the 24-coach train got derailed.
 
 Jodhpur division spokesperson Gopal Sharma said the work to repair the tracks was going on at war-footing.The relief accidental train rea ched at 9am on Saturday and started removing the coaches by crane.
 
 He said at present Jaisalmer is cut off from rail connectivity. Around one dozen trains to Jaisalmer have been cancelled and traffic is expected to resume by Saturday night or Sunday morning.
 
 Jodhpur rail division manager Rahul Goyal has ordered an investigation into the accident. Officers have reached the spot and a videography of the spot is being done, especially the tracks which broke into pieces. He said that the role ISI cannot be ruled out. Possibility of the track breaking due to cold is also there. We are investigating the incident from all angles.
 
 
 
 
 According to a tweet from the ministry of railways, the ministry has directed to investigate the case from all angles in view of the recent subversive activities. Railway security forces have been kept on high alert. Citizens are also requested to report any suspicious activity.
 
