LUCKNOW: Days after chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi visited King George's   and raised concern over lack of sensitivity on part of junior doctors as a cause of rising number of brawls, resident doctors at   filed their reply on Sunday. They wrote to the chief minister and governor about infrastructural gaps and shortage of hands because of which patient care suffers in KGMU. “If these issues are fixed, patient care at the hospital will be back on track and issue of attacks will be resolved,” said doctors. 

 There was scuffle between a junior doctor and a patient’s   at KGMU April 2, after which Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) demanded immediate action under UP Medical Protection Act, 2013.
 
 It was claimed in the letter that the number of beds, as also patients, increased in departments like surgery and medicine from 2,800 in 2014 to 4,000 in 2017 but number of post graduate residents remained stuck at 15, hence the doubling of burden of   on attending doctors. 
 
 Currently, for over 5,00,000 OPD patients a year and 51,000 indoor patients, KGMU has only about 250 resident doctors in its major clinical departments, including surgery, medicine, gynaecology, paediatrics and orthopaedics.
 
 Doctors also claimed the supporting   at KGMU are very few in number, each attending to 30-50 patients at a time as against the Indian Nursing Council's recommendation of one staff nurse for four patients. The letter also questions that inter-departmental shifting of doctors that puts extra pressure on them. “KGMU claims to run new facilities on low cost but it has severely paralysed basic departments,” the letter reads. 
 
 Such a situation is responsible for frequent clashes between patients and doctors. Claiming it is KGMU’s strenuous setup that affects both side and leads to such incidents, the letter alleges that a patient has to buy even smallest medical utilities like cotton and bandages, drips and cannula at trauma centre, while many lie on stretcher for up to three days while the attendant remains standing, which gives rise to anger. 
 
