After only 51% of the registered voters turned out to vote in the 2012  , the state election commission took it upon itself to improve the numbers this time around.

 Apart from commissioning a study by the   into the possible reasons for the poor polling percentage, the SEC also undertook several initiatives to spread awareness among voters, such as drafting popular faces from the film industry, putting out short films, involving citizens’ groups et al.
 
 State election commissioner   spoke to TOI on the polling percentage, the new four-ward panel system among other things related to the 2017 municipal election. Excerpts: 
 
 
 
 
 A: We are hoping for a very good voter turnout in all the corporations this year, as we have conducted many awareness programmes through the print and electronic media. We are aiming for 80%. However, this will be a test, and we hope we meet our target. It will all depend on the voters as it is they who must go out and vote. 
 
 
 
 A: We reached out to every sector — youth, housing societies, slum areas and senior citizens — through various means. All the civic bodies were told to allocate a special budget for creating awareness among voters, and it was their responsibility to ensure they reached out to maximum voters and that they went out to vote on February 21.
 
 
 
 A: We had the four-ward panel system introduced this time. Since there was confusion among voters, we held several meetings with the heads of all the corporations, and urged them to hold camps in various areas to help voters understand the process. Videos were made and shared with many people, while all the returning officers were also directed to visit societies and slums and explain the process.
 
 
 
 A: We have taken extra efforts to explain the process and even reached out through various media — print and electronic — to help voters became aware of the importance of voting and the process therein. We are hoping that this will reflect in a good voter turnout on polling day. We were able to reach out to the maximum societies with the help from the department of cooperation.
 
 
 
 
 A: We have allocated 700-800 people to every polling booth, and as per our calculations, we will be able to cover 100% of the voters in 10 hours. Some will be quick while some others will need extra time, but this should not be an issue.
 
 
 
 A: The change in sequence of names was bound to happen, as each municipal corporation had to divide the lists according to polling booths. Each corporation was told make the slips available either on the eve of the elections or on the polling day at the polling booths. Voter search is not an issue, thanks to the many mobile applications that were introduced.
 
