For anyone who's been saying   Rajinikanth seems to be a changed man now ' that he's calmer, serene, well, he is all of this for sure. But that's because at 66, he has discovered the powers of meditation, has found his guru, and is performing kriya. The actor introduced the teachings of   through his film, Baba. But it is Paramhansa's disciple,   from the   that   speaks of as guru. We spoke to Swamiji, about path to spirituality in this day of FB likes and WhatsApp updates...

 
 
 They are stressed because they don't know the meaning of life. They think happiness can be found outside. They get misguided by materialistic needs. Youngsters get caught in so many external things that they start believing that these things will give them happiness and contentment. Finally, at one point in life, they realise that happiness is right within them. But this realisaiton will happen only when they start seeking the purpose of their life. But who has the time to think about any of this? People jump from one thing to the other and don't bother giving their mind some rest. All the great people always had an inner voice that guided them. 
 
 
 
 It is how you manage your time. If people can divide the time they give to different things like studying, job, family, friends and meditation, then they are sorted. It has to be done very consciously. Just for an hour or two every day invest your time in meditation and yoga. Don't miss this even for a single day. Youngsters need to understand that the two hours they invest in this is what is going to help them for the remaining 22 hours. 
 
 
 
 I will give you an example: a man saw three children studying under a tree in a small village in Tamil Nadu. When he inquired, he found out that the condition in their house was not conducive to study at home. He spotted an abandoned building and began renovating it. He slowly expanded it, and now, there are 300 students studing there, and clearing board exams. If not for that man, who gave the initial money and asked to build that building, so many children wouldn't be studying today. I think you have lots of avenues in our country where you can do service. A small act can make a huge difference. It is the heart that matters. Everyone should have the heart to donate.
 
 
 
 Frankly, I am very impressed with him. He has a lot of goodness in his heart. He is very humble and simple, and has no airs of being this superstar. When I visited him, he made me feel at home. He introduced our organisation through the movie Baba. He practises yoga and meditation regularly and has a very positive outlook towards life. He is a great guy.
 
 
 
 I cannot comment about others. I don't know what methods they use. But I can say that we are a very low-key organisaiton. We don't publicise ourselves and not many people know that this March, we are turning 100. Our aim is to do genuine work that can cure the threefold sufferings of body, mind and soul. 
 
