RAJKOT: Prime Minister   while addressing public gathering at   in pilgrimage   town said that his government wants to bring ‘blue’ revolution by coastal development and fishermen’s welfare.

 “Country’s vast coast can bring revolution. We have prepared ‘Sagar Mala’ scheme for its development and it will attract 8 lakh crore’s investment. It will create industrial and tourism development along coastal line. We have identified 400 such projects of which 40 would come up along Gujarat’ coasts attracting 45,000 crore’sof investment," Modi said.
 
 Narendra Modi was felicitated by local BJP unit as he visited Somnath for the first time after becoming the Prime Minister.
 
 Modi further said that 18 ports will be modernized, seven port cities will be developed and four coastal community development projects will come up. Special manufacturing city will come up which will provide employment to over 50,000 people.
 
 “We made Kandla port a profit-making unit and we will increase its cargo handling capacity to 11 lakh tonnes," PM said.
 
 He also announced a new ‘iconic’ bridge connecting   to  .
 
 “The design is being prepared for the iconic bridge and it will be a tourist point as people will come to see this bridge. He said that estimated cost of the bridge is Rs 500 crore.
 
 While referring three colours of National flag, PM Modi said that his government will bring ‘saffron, White and green revolution in country.
 
 “Gujarat was the first state to announce its solar policy in the country. India has initiated many steps to solve world’s environmental issues. By White revolution, we plan to increase milk productivity with scientific approach and achieve the goal to double the farmers’ income by 2022 when India will celebrate its 75th independence," PM added. He further said that much thrust will be given on developing renewable energy under "Saffron Revolution".
 
 Talking about price issue of farm produce, Narendra Modi said that in order to help groundnut growing farmers, government has decided to allow its export so that farmers can get good price for ttheir produce as groundnut production is good this year.
 
 PM also announced one scheme for fishermen and said that the scheme is being prepared and fishermen are welcome to send their inputs to him.
 
 “Five poor fishermen can form a co-operative and government will give 50 per cent subsidy and Rs 1 crore from Mudra scheme. Fishermen can buy a fishing trawler with cold storage facility and increase their earning capacity," he announced.
 
