LUCKNOW: Of the 149   forms received by the weights and measurement department from   for repair and maintenence of vending machines at   from January 1 to April 30, 2017, all reports said the machines tested okay and were dispensing fuel properly. During raids conducted by STF, district administration and weight and measurement department, however, over 18 petrol pumps were   for tampering machine and vending less fuel to customers than value of money taken.

 Speaking to TOI, deputy controller of weights and measurement department O P Singh said that to repair an oil dispensing machine, oil company needs to send the department an approval form and submit Rs 1,500 fee, for which the weights and measurement department gives approval to break the seal. After that, engineers of oil companies carry out repair and maintenance work. 
 
 After repair, oil company sends a report to the weights and measurement department mentioning the status of the machine. The department carries out a physical check of whether the machines are dispensing the fuel properly or not.
 
 A combined report of number of machines checked by oil companies has been obtained by TOI. In the reports it was found that from 165 petrol pumps in Lucknow district, 149 forms for approval for maintenance and repair were received by the weights and measurement department. A number of petrol pumps, including Lalta Prasad Vaish, Pioneer services, Standard fuel, Brij auto care, Shiv Narayan & Sons, Saket filling centre, Lucknow filling centre etc were sealed.
 
 Singh said the raids will continue. ADM civil supply Alka Verma said notices had been sent to nine petrol pumps and they had been given them seven days to reply and if they failed, their licence to vend oil will be cancelled. 
 
 According to chief development officer Prashant Sharma, district administration has been directed not to register any FIR against any petrol pump owner or employee but the facility may be sealed and report sent to chief secretary.
 
 
