GHAZIABAD: Two months after the arrest of Anubhav Mittal, the prime accused in the Rs 3,726-crore Ponzi internet   that affected almost seven lakh people, a similar case has come to light in Ghaziabad concerning a Sahibabad-based company, Payway IT Solutions Pvt Ltd, that has allegedly duped over 20,000 people of Rs 1,000 crore in the last four months, according to a complaint filed by 20 people at the SSP Ghaziabad's office on Monday, April 10.

 The Sahibabad company duped people by means of a pyramid scheme — that was started around December 17, 2016 — by asking people to click on www.webpagelike.com and also click to view advertisements. The scheme was offered under three broad plans of Rs 11,750; Rs 37,500 and Rs 1,15,000 and every ‘like’ would credit Rs 8 into the scheme holder’s account. The victims were asked to introduce the scheme to two other people that would double their earnings, increase them from 250 to 500 for a day and they will also be awarded with an 32-inch LED flatscreen TV within the next 15 days.
 
 Aakash Bansal, a victim who had invested Rs 3,45,000 from three different IDs, said, “They used to give us 250 likes per day and each like would cost us Rs 8. We were given our own ID and passwords and each time we clicked on the URL and punched in our information, our target for that day would be launched. After clicking on 250 likes, an invoice of Rs 2,000 was created on the screen and the same amount was credited into our bank accounts the next day.”
 
 Bansal, who received a return of only Rs 60,000 so far from the company, said the membership fee was Rs 1 lakh while the service tax was Rs 15,000.
 
 The investors used to get money in their accounts for the first five days of the week except on Saturday and Sunday.
 
 Echoing Bansal’s sentiments, Ashok Aggarwal, a victim and resident of Shahdara, New Delhi, said, “I have invested Rs 19,55,000 of my own in 17 IDs created in my wife’s, my son’s and my name. Seven IDs are in my name, seven in my son’s and three in my wife’s. They used to sell the idea of doubling our everyday earnings by creating more IDs so well that I got greedy and now I am completely trapped.”
 
 According to the complainant, more than Rs 8 crore has been invested by almost 800 people who are all connected through friends, family and colleagues.
 
 The company was registered in the names of Aman Sharma (28) and Varun Gupta (32), who called themselves the directors of the company. Manoj Verma, Mukesh Tyagi, Shubham Birla, Jatin and Manoj Bansal were their close aides and worked from the company’s offices located in B-231, B-233,   building, Site 4, Link Road, Sahibabad.
 
 According to the complainants, Varun Gupta used to sit in the office and speak directly to the buyers, while one Jatin used to manage the company’s accounts. Manoj Bansal was the legal adviser of the company who hoodwinked the victims after returns stopped accruing to them in February.
 
 According to the property manager of  , Aman Sharma met him on September 16 seeking a fully furnished office in the building and two fully furnished offices with two different owners were granted to him on the second floor of the building.
 
 Meanwhile, Ghaziabad SSP Deepak Kumar has instructed the Link Road Police force to look into the matter and file an FIR as soon as possible. “This is a huge case of fraud and the culprits will not go unpunished. We were getting confusing information but we are working on it,” Kumar said.
 
 
