HYDERABAD: The   has been increasing over the years, with the   being  ,   that are   

 Records show that in the Hyderabad limits alone, traffic cops booked 2,500 cases of   in 2016. This year’s figure so far has already reached 690. 
 
 Apart from peak traffic hours, the problem persists during the nights too as several private buses/lorries enter the city limits way before their permitted time of 10 pm, say officials. One can see huge carriers jostling for space in the evenings itself. 
 
 “The entire service road and the sides of the main road in Madinaguda can be found occupied by private buses during evening hours. On certain days, there is a fleet of 30-40 buses lined up one after the other, resulting in the service roads being completely inaccessible,” said B Satyanarayana, a resident of the area.
 
 Similar scenes are commonplace along the Kukatpally main road, another busy pick-up point for private bus operators. 
 
 While cops have stepped up their vigil and started booking cases and imposing fines on errant operators, they confess that these measures aren’t enough to contain the problem. “If there could have been an arrangement wherein private operators could use RTC bus stations for parking, against a fee, the problem could have been solved to a large extent. But since RTC does not see these private buses as legal (because they are contract carriages on paper but ply as stage carriers), there is a lot of confusion. We are hoping that the issue will be dealt with in the new Motor Vehicles Act,” said A V Ranganath, deputy commissioner of police (Traffic), Hyderabad-II.
 
 Till then, police fear that the problem is likely to persist. “Fines and challans can be deterrents, not solutions. Also, it isn’t commercial roads and main roads alone that are affected. Even residential areas are facing a huge problem of parking,” said Ranganath. 
 
 Calling out to city planners and architects, police say that the mammoth problem of parking can be resolved only by experts working in the area of urban design and planning. 
 
 
