BADAL (BATHINDA): A day after the   town of Bathinda snuffed out six lives, incumbent Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president   accused AAP chief   of supporting radical forces who were bent on spoiling the peaceful atmosphere in the state. Sukhbir on Wednesday claimed that those behind the blast at Maur town of Bathinda were in turn supporting AAP. 

 Talking to mediapersons at his ancestral house in Badal village of Muktsar district, Sukhbir said "I am shocked at the manner in which Kejriwal is supporting extremist forces. I would like to say only one thing to him. Governments may come and go but peace in Punjab is more important than votes. Let us not do anything which takes Punjab back to the turbulent times.”
 
 The deputy CM, who also holds home department portfolio, released some pictures of AAP’ former Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh of allegedly addressing separatists in London.
 
 Sukhbir said, “Whatever has happened in the recent past, including the blast last night, occurred due to the support extended to radicals by AAP. Kejriwal has openly courted radicals; be it having breakfast with R P Singh of the Akhand Kirtani Jatha, which is a front organization of the Babbar Khalsa International; meeting the expelled Panj Piaras; or staying at the residence of Khalistan Commando Force (KCF) terrorist Gurinder Singh at Moga recently. All this has emboldened radical elements who only want an opportunity to ferment trouble.”
 
 Sukhbir also said that Kejriwal was taking the same path as taken by former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. He said the Punjab Congress chief too addressed a Khalistani conclave in Dixcy Gurdwara in Canada to get radical elements on his side against the SAD. “Kejriwal is doing the same thing. The entire sequence of events proves this,” the deputy CM said.
 
 He said that apart from Kejriwal, other AAP leaders were also courting separatists. He said Jarnail, had too addressed a Khalistani conclave in London in the past. Jarnail, who came to limelight after throwing a shoe at then home minister P Chidambaram over the issue of justice to 1984 riots victims, is contesting against CM Parkash Singh Badal from Lambi.
 
 “The SAD-BJP alliance government kept radical elements in check for the past 10 years. Recently, we even barred the so called Sarbat Khalsa congregation as it had a separatist agenda,” said Sukhbir, adding that the CM had always stood for peace and communal harmony.
 
 He also asked Amarinder to act responsibly and not give any statement which could be misused by anti-national elements to create trouble in the state.
 
