KOLKATA: Financial behemoth   will have to alter its recruitment procedure after a   person took it to court for not providing the third gender category in its application and won the case.

 The Calcutta high court on Thursday directed SBI to not only accept Atri Kar’s application for the post of probationary officer as a transgender person, it also directed the bank to treat Kar’s application in the reserve category as directed by the  .
 
 Originally a male, Kar is now undergoing hormone therapy in the quest to transform into a female after undergoing sex realignment surgery.
 
 The 27-year-old Tribeni resident was forced to move court after SBI turned a deaf ear to the pleas to furnish an application that had provision for the third gender. Kar said she had no option but seek legal redress when there was no corrective measure forthcoming even after she contacted the SBI chairman’s office. 
 
 “Justice  , while hearing Kar’s writ petition on Thursday, directed that SBI accept the application within a week although the date for submitting online application has expired on March 6. The court also made it clear that Kar belonged to the third gender,” said Kaushik Gupta, Kar’s counsel.
 
 A Supreme Court judgement of April, 2014, granted equal rights and protection to transgenders. The   had moved the SC in 2012 for protecting the rights of the transgender and inclusion of third gender category in recording one’s gender in official documents.
 
 This is not Atri Kar’s first trip to the court. She has had to take legal recourse time and again to overcome hurdles stacked against people belonging to the third gender. “I had to move the HC to get directives so that I could appear in recruitment examinations for WBCS (Ex) and Railways,” she recounted. Kar is currently preparing for civil services examination.
 
 Even in her teaching career, Kar had faced mental harassment and had to quit two schools when she could not take it any more. The school that she is currently in has finally been supportive.
 
