CHANDIGARH: Upset over the ignorance of law officers on the issue of dropping of the chargesheet against   awardee and whistleblower Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer Sanjiv Chaturvedi, the   and Haryana high court has asked both Haryana and the Centre to depute officers who are “well conversant” with the matter to assist the court.

 “After hearing for some time, there is no assistance by either of the counsel for the state and Union of India. Therefore, one of the officer from both state as well as Union of India who is conversant with the entire case be deputed to be present in court to assist in the matter on the next date of hearing along with the relevant records,” ordered Justice P B Bajanthari in its orders released on Friday.
 
 When the matter came up for hearing before the   on September 25, both the counsel for Haryana as well as the Centre could not satisfy queries of the bench on the issue. IFS officer Chaturvedi, who was present in person in the court, alleged concealment of some facts by the state government.
 
 Chaturvedi stated that Haryana had filed the present petition for quashing the recommendations of Centre’s panel that had recommended dropping of chargesheet against him and   probe into the scams exposed by him, by completely ignoring the fact that state’s own governor had dropped his chargesheet in February 2011.
 
 On this, the counsel appearing for the Haryana government could not respond to bench queries. The matter would now be heard on October 25.
 
 In March 2014, Bhupinder Singh Hooda-led Congress government had challenged the report before the high court demanding quashing of the recommendations of the panel that included a CBI probe into the scams raised by Chaturvedi and all actions taken by the Centre on the basis of the report.
 
 The report of two-member panel comprising inspector general of forest A K Srivastava and Shally Ranjan had indicted the then CM Hooda’s office for fabricating false charges against Chaturvedi and had recommended a CBI inquiry. Subsequently, the President had revoked the chargesheet against Chaturvedi on January 19, 2011.
 
 Prominent among those who were indicted in the report were then CM Hooda's officer on special duty ( ), then forest minister, a Fatehabad-based politician, and a large number of IFS officers of the state forest department.
 
 The panel had also recommended action against one of the senior most bureaucrats Keshni Anand Arora, then secretary (forest), who is now additional chief secretary, for appointing an inquiry officer despite orders of two of her predecessors to drop the chargesheet as Chaturvedi’s actions were legal.
 
 The Union ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) report had categorically indicted Hooda’s office for ‘removing the officer from scene’ at the detection of any scam by him.
 
 
 
 
 A petition on the issue is already pending before the   where Sanjiv Chaturvedi had demanded a CBI probe in the forest scams exposed by him in Haryana on the basis of MoEF committee’s report. Even the CBI had submitted before the apex court that the case was fit for an independent probe. With no hurdle left in the high court, a CBI probe may create trouble for several bureaucrats responsible for harassing Chaturvedi.
 
