KOLKATA:   will don a new avatar by the end of 2018 if things move according to plan. It is the only station in the state among 20 in the first phase for which   were launched by   on Wednesday. The only other station from the eastern region in the list is Ranchi. 

 While the indicative cost for redevelopment of Howrah is Rs 400 crore, an estimated Rs 100 crore will be spent for Ranchi. Interestingly, Indian Railways will not spend a penny for the redevelopment. Rather, zonal railways — in this case Eastern and   — will stand to gain financially from the projects.
 
 Under the scheme,   will be offered the stations that are to be redeveloped. Apart from bearing the cost, the developer would have to pay a premium to the railways. In lieu of this, the developer will be allowed to commercially exploit plots of railway either at the station or close to it. The plot for commercial use will be handed over to the developer on a lease for 45 years. The developer will also have to maintain the redeveloped station for 15 years.
 
 For Howrah, developers would be able to commercially exploit a 10-acre plot behind the rail museum. At Ranchi, South Eastern Railway (SER) will be offering two plots of 5.6 acres and 2.6 acres for commercial development. The plots can’t be used for residential purpose though. Neither can they be mortgaged or sub-leased. 
 
 According to the blueprint, stations have been divided into two categories. Howrah falls under the ‘iconic’ category where the redevelopment cost has been set at Rs 7,000-12,000 per square feet. For ‘premier’ stations like Ranchi, the cost has been set at Rs 2,000-4,000 per square feet. Facades of stations like Howrah won’t be changed, given their heritage status though interiors will undergo major alteration.
 
 “Investors should realise that there are certain advantages in buildings near stations. Just look at the footfalls and the eyeballs you can grab. You will be getting a captive audience. You can actually develop a new icon for the city where the station is located. Till now, our assets haven’t been monetised in a proper manner till now. We are also working with the ministry of urban development that is identifying 100 smart cities. The smart cities will require smart stations. I have also urged general managers to get in touch with state governments for redevelopment of stations. The Odisha government has already started redeveloping Bhubaneswar station and will hand it over to us shortly,” Prabhu said before inaugurating the scheme on Wednesday.
 
 According to V K Srivastava, chief planning and design engineer, SER, the basic idea is to redevelop the stations and increase passenger amenities. This will include segregation of arrivals and departures, increase in passenger concourse area, kiosks and other utilities as well as malls, multiplexes and other commercial projects. The contracts, to be awarded 15-18 months from now, will be through a unique method known as the modified ‘Swiss Challenge’.
 
 “The developer or consortium that submits the best technical and financial bid won’t be awarded the contract outright. The technical part will then be thrown open to the market for others to offer possible better bids — both technical and financial. If somebody comes forward with a better deal, the original agency will have to compete yet again to bag the contract,” said S N Agrawal, general manager, SER.
 
