The oil spill near   will have a long-term impact on the marine eco-system, fear researchers. With January and Febru researchers. With January and February being the spawning season for many species of   and the nesting time for turtles, these creatures will be the most affected said an official at the Zoological Survey of India.

 As the water current is now moving from south towards the north, the oil can spread till Pulicat and affect a large number of fish, said the official.The thick coat of heavy furnace oil which leaked into the sea will make it difficult for marine life to survive. The sheet of oil on the water surface will not allow the oxygen to mix with the water. Due to this the fish and other organisms are likely to die of suffocation. The turtles which have to come to the surface once in every half an hour to breathe will also be affected as the oil slick will hamper their movement and breathing too.
 
 “Though the Central government has formulated a detailed contingency plan in case of an oil spill in the sea , river or any other water body, the coast guard is yet to implement the same,“ said the officer. The guidelines clearly state the steps to be taken after 10 days of the oil spill and the meaures to be taken after a fortnight. 
 
 Apart from this it also specifies the remedial measures to be taken underwater as well on the shore. The ZSI officer said the coral reefs in the deeper waters between Chennai harbour and Mahabalipuram are also at risk due to the spillage. There are also some fish aggregating devices, placed by NGOs along this route to increase the fish resource, which will be affected. 
 
 Turtle conservationist Supraja Dharini, who was in the Ennore area on Monday to assist the Coast Guard authorities said “Right now there is no report of turtle deaths due to the oil spill. What people see along the coast are carcasses of dead turtles that float in the waters. When they come closer to the oil spill area, the sediments get settled on them and turn them into dark black turtle carcasses, creating an impression that the turtles died due to the oil spill,“ she said. Actual number of deaths of Olive Ridley turtles due to oil spill will come to light in the coming weeks, she added.
 
 
