Gandhinagar: One day after senior Congress leader Shankersinh Vaghela unfollowed all handles he had been following on Twitter — including All-India Congress Committee vice president Rahul Gandhi — triggering widespread talk of his joining the BJP, Bapu on Monday clarified that he remains in the Congress. 

 “I repeat that I am not in the race for CM. I will remain in the Congress and fight elections under the leadership of Bharatsinh Solanki. Campaigns like ‘Bapu for CM’ on social media had created a controversy, due to which I decided to unfollow everyone. I deleted all anti-BJP tweets as well lest they are misused,” Vaghela told mediapersons.
 
 Political circles however remained abuzz about Bapu’s brinksmanship ahead of the Gujarat 2017 polls. “The party has delayed declaring the names of candidates, which the Anthony committee report said must done at least one year ahead of the elections. The party needs to declare its candidates now,” said Vaghela, while scotching talk that Ahmed Patel would be the Congress’s CM candidate.
 
 “Ahmed Patel has done a lot for the state but he has never expressed a desire to be CM,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, top leaders in BJP and Congress were feverishly discussing the possibility of the ‘ghar wapsi’ (homecoming) of Vaghela — a former BJP leader who left the saffron party after staging a coup against the then CM Keshubhai Patel in 1995, only to later merge his Rashtriya Janta Party (RJP) with the Congress in 1998.
 
 On Vaghela joining the BJP, Nitin Patel, deputy chief minister said, “Anyone who believes or adopts BJP’s ideology can join BJP. Shankersinh Vaghela has a good following and if he joins, the BJP’s strength will further increase.” 
 
 “Though it is an internal matter of the Congress, the way the leader of opposition Shankersinh Vaghela has unfollowed his leaders and embarrassed them in the last three months, it shows that the infighting in Congress is at its peak,” Patel added.
 
 Bapu exit could take BJP to 150 seats
 
 There is talk in the political corridors of the state that if Vaghela defects to the BJP with his MLAs and supporters, the BJP would cross the 150-seat mark even before the elections.
 
 Congress readies plan for if Vaghela join BJP
 
 If key sources in the state Congress are to be believed, the party has a back up plan ready for Vaghela defecting to the BJP with the MLAs who support him. Last Saturday, Gujarat Congress president Bharatsinh Solanki, state Congress in-charge Ashok Gehlot and others had a meeting with the high command in Delhi, where the issue of the likely crisis if Vaghela joins the BJP was discussed. “The party also sought feedback from many old ground-level Congress activists who felt that while Vaghela’s exit may damage the party in the short term, it will help the party in the long run,” said a source.
 
 
