PUNE: Creative talent in the city must step forward to set the pace to bring in new theatre and art experiences for connoisseurs here, believes writer, artist and musician  , who has curated Freedom Way--an arts festival that kicked off in the city on Wednesday.

 Put together in an effort to promote new talent in multiple fields of art and to showcase new work of established artists, the festival will host a mixed bag of dance, theatre, music, storytelling and bookreading sessions, besides a line-up of visual arts exhibits, including art shows, solo presentations, workshops and installations as part of the Pune Biennale 3.0 which was inaugurated on Thursday.
 
 Khare, who has refrained from giving participating artists any theme for their presentations, believes it is important to allow creative expression to run free for people to realize their potential.
 
 He urges the creatively inclined to break free from the moulds of tradition and of aping the West, even Mumbai.
 
 Emphasizing the need for a renewed theatre scene in the city, Khare said, “We need to foster new ideas, new scripts and new artists here.We need to get more innovative and bring up newer issues and new voices. There is a lot of unusual and brilliant talent in the city which needs encouragement. We need to open our doors to ideas and creative people from all over the country .“
 
 Khare, who has been mentoring young artists and writers and creative artists for nearly four decades, also stressed on the need for a platform for creative expression.“We need something in Pune on the lines of Mumbai's Prithvi Theatre and  , a place where creativity can flow freely. I fear that creative artists here are getting stuck in a mould, which needs to be broken. We need to look beyond the theatre scene of Mumbai and do more than just ape the west. Pune needs to move beyond its own traditions,“ he said.
 
 At the festival
 
 Upcoming events include  , a presentation of  's ghazals by a group of city-based musicians on January 14. Ashwin Panemangalore will cover some icons of Jazz music the next day. The first reading of Sudha Menon's new book--Devi Diva or She-Devil--will be held on January 20.Breaking Free, an original play in English written and directed by Randhir Khare will premiere on January 21. The play explores the trauma of social isolation, an individual's struggle to find his her self and the politics of guilt. The play is the first production by Gyaan Adab Players, a theatre company working to bring new talent to Pune's theatre scene.
 
