In an industry where actresses are vying for the ‘heroine’ tag,   says that she’d rather be the vamp. The actress, who plays Satrupa in ' ', says, “I love playing negative characters. They are way more fun and therapeutic. A positive character has too many limitations. It can be frustrating to play miss goody two-shoes all the time. Koi bhi itna achha nahi hota. On the other hand, sky is the limit when you are playing a negative character. It also allows me to vent all my frustrations on screen. By the end of the shoot, there is no anger left in me and I calm down (laughs).”
She adds, “Age doesn't matter to me. I can play  's mother, but the character has to be interesting. I have no qualms playing a mother or grandmother on a show.”
 Talking about her vamp avatars, she elaborates, “Bhanwari Devi in Piya Rangrezz was so crazy, it was fun to play her. She was one unpredictable woman, who would not talk beyond joote, chappal and bandook. In my current show, I play a grey character. Satrupa can do anything for power. Her only redeeming quality is that family is her priority. She is more sophisticated than  . I hated playing the bechari maa in Phir Subah Hogi, but I took it up because it was multiple shades of emotions.”
 Being choosy about roles has its share of challenges, including less visibility and less money. Narayani says, “When I started working, I didn’t know what was right or wrong. I picked up shows like crazy and yes, I did enjoy that phase. But there comes a time in every actor’s life when they feel a lack of creative satisfaction. Of course, there are insecurities regarding money and visibility, but I have stopped compromising on quality. There was a time when I was getting bored of sitting at home, when I felt how long can I wait for a good role... even then, I didn't take up roles I was unsure about.” 
 Having said that, Narayani doesn’t deny the fact that characters on TV are stereotypical. “Every character, be it negative or positive, is typical on TV. It all depends on how you play the part,” she observes.
 While she is content professionally, Narayani’s personal life is also going great. She got married to Steven Graver, a British national, a year-and-a-half ago. She reveals, “Honestly, I didn’t want to get married. I wasn’t sure if I would find somebody as crazy as me, someone who would share the same point of view of life. Somewhere along the way,   and I realised that we will always be together. We decided to get married on an impulse. Nothing has changed post marriage and we are still as crazy. Every marriage is what you want it to be; what works for us is trust, commitment and respect for each other. We will complete seven years together in September. He is my best friend and we talk utter nonsense 20 times a day. He makes me laugh all the time.”
 
  
  
 
