DEHRADUN: A day after the death of two women in a road accident in Dehradun on Thursday,   of police (DGP) M A Ganapathy on Friday directed district police to crack down on speeding and underage driving.
 
  The women, identified as Parvati Devi, 52, and Neelam Rawat, 42, died after they were hit by a speeding bike at EC Road. The two were crossing the road to go to a private heart institute, where Parvati’s husband was admitted.
  
  The DGP said, “It was an unfortunate incident and I have instructed the senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Dehradun to adopt zero tolerance against speeding and underage driving. Strict action will be taken against the offenders in such cases.”
  
  About 2,500 people have been killed in road accidents in Dehradun since 2001 while 5,000 people sustained grievous injuries in road accidents in the same period. From January 1 to May 15, Dehradun has witnessed 122 road accidents resulting in 46 casualities.
  
  Meanwhile, police have booked 19-year-old Ankit, a resident of Naogaon in Uttarkashi, who was driving the bike, under section 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder), which has a provision of imprisonment of up to 10 years.
  
  “Usually, we impose section 304 A of the IPC in accident-related deaths which has a maximum punishment of up to two years but in this case we booked the bike rier under section 304 to send a strong message to everyone indulging in speeding,” said  , in charge of Dalanwala police station.
  
  Ankit, who did not have a valid driving licence, had borrowed the bike from  , a resident of Subash Nagar in  . “We are also exploring the possibilities of taking action against the person who had given his bike to someone who did not have a driving licence,” SSP Dehradun Nivedita Kukreti said.
  
  In the past year,   have issued 877 challans for speeding and sent driving licence cancellation reports to RTO in 800 cases. Since January 1, 2017, police have issued 393 challan for underage driving and 399 for driving without licence.
