PANAJI:   have returned to the   after two years out in the cold but they just don't seem to be as excited.

 The former champions are among the most consistent teams in the combined history of the National Football League and I-League since 1996 ­ two titles and five runners-up - and boast of some of the best foreign recruits Indian football has seen. But their preparations for this season have been haphazard.
 
 Till the team flew out of Goa for the opener against  , no foreign player was registered. Anthony Wolfe is the lone foreign player training with the squad but it might be some time before the transfer formalities are completed. There are others like Kyrgyzstan midfielder Bektur Talgat and Mali striker A Kromah who have been shortlisted but the quality of their recruits brings back no memories of the Churchill Brothers squads we fondly remember.
 
 Why are Churchill Brothers so indifferent? You could say they had little time to prepare after being reinstated late to the I-League following intervention from Delhi High Court. Or, perhaps, with the I-League now on its last leg, nobody really wants to invest anymore, unless, of course, like the Big Three ­ Mohun Bagan,   and   ­ you have no choice but challenge for the title.
 
 The All India Football Federation (AIFF) has made it clear that this will be the last edition of I-League, India's premier football competition. From next season, the three-year-old Indian Super League (ISL) will supersede everyone and rise to the top, officially, while the I-League will be killed and instead League One ­ with no promotion to the top league ­ will take shape. Such an arrangement, the AIFF feels, is necessary to keep Indian football alive. The 
 
 I-League attracted no sponsors, no fans, and seemed to be dying a natural death. But who is to be blamed? If you believe the AIFF, long-serving clubs -particularly those from Goa - did nothing to attract fans over the years and consequently have to pay the price of being left out when the new league kick-starts next season, possibly with just three I-League teams ­ Mohun Bagan, East Bengal and Bengaluru FC ­ being accommodated. The rest will be left to fend for themselves.
 
 The clubs, though, have a different story to tell.
 
 "It is clear that the ISL could have only prospered by killing the I-League. The AIFF were supposed to register a separate entity (to run the league) as per the licensing criteria, which they didn't.
 
 They didn't allow the clubs to run the league as well. If the marketing and organizational responsibility was with AIFF, how can clubs be blamed," asks Sporting Clube de Goa president Peter Vaz, who along with traditional Goan powerhouses, Salgaocar FC and Dempo Sports Club ­ sharing seven titles among them ­ pulled out in protest.
 
 The pullout left AIFF embarrassed but to be fair they acted quickly. Aizawl FC, relegated last season, were retained; Churchill were re-instated after being kicked out for failure to fulfil club licensing criteria while two new teams ­ Minerva Punjab FC and Chennai City FC ­ were added.
 
 "The 10th edition of Hero I-League with a pan India spread. The spirit of the game set to unify the nation," tweeted AIFF president Praful Patel.
 
 In reality, Indian football has never felt so divided. 
 
