CHENNAI: More than 250   seats found no takers in   this year, and it constitutes about 15% of the total seats available in private self-financing colleges in the state. Barring the sole state-run Madras   College, only a few dental colleges in the state were able to fill all the seats, data show.

 At deemed universities, more than half the available seats remains vacant this year.
 
 Tamil Nadu has 100 seats each in government dental college and state-managed   and 1,710 seats in the 18 self-financing dental colleges. There are an additional 800 seats in eight deemed universities.
 
 On Friday, state selection committee secretary G Selvarajan said 252 BDS seats were vacant in self-financing dental colleges.
 
 While deemed universities are facing shortage of candidates for the second year in a row following NEET-based admission, self-financing colleges are facing the heat for the first time this year. “There were too many seats and too little eligible students,” said Indian Dental Association legal Cell convenor Dr Major V Murali. “Many students could not afford the fee in private colleges or deemed universities. It’s time some college managements realise that most students join BDS if they don’t get MBBS. But unlike MBBS, they are not willing to pay very high fee,” he said.
 
 While annual fee for government dental college is Rs 11,600, the fee fixation committee fixed the tuition fee for all government quota seats in self-financing college as Rs 2.5 lakh and management seats fee as Rs 6 lakh. The NRI seats cost Rs 9 lakh. In most deemed universities the fee structure goes up to Rs 7 lakh.
 
 However, DCI president Dr Dibyendu Mazumder said the situation was not that bad this year. “Many states like   have filled all their seats. Many more students cracked NEET this year,” he said.
 
 The lack of popularity for BDS courses could also be due to poor job opportunities in government sector, as there is only one state-run dental hospital in Tamil Nadu. Starting a private clinic will be expensive too. But professors say students don’t know that despite seeing lesser patients than a physician, a dentist will normally be able to make better money. “This is the case across the globe. Most dentists start making money early and settle even soon after UG,” said Dr D Kandaswamy, dean, Sri Ramachandra Dental College.
 
