CHANDIGARH:   on Thursday announced the name of businessman Swaran  , 58, as party’s candidate for the Gurdaspur   byelection to be held on October 11. AAP was the first to announce Maj Gen Suresh Khajuria (retd) as its candidate for the seat on September 17.

 However, the   high command had on Wednesday announced party’s Punjab unit president   as its candidate. Friday is the last day for filing of nominations for the elections.
 
 Salaria’s name came as a surprise to many in the Punjab BJP unit as they were expecting the party high command in Delhi to confirm the name of Kavita Khanna, the widow of former MP and actor  . The state BJP election committee headed by Punjab BJP president and Union minister of state Vijay Sampla had recommended Kavita and Salaria’s names to the party high command in its September 16 meeting held in Jalandhar.
 
 The Gurdaspur Lok Sabha seat had fallen vacant after the demise of actor-turned-politician Vinod Khanna (70) in Mumbai on April 27. The seat had remained with the BJP since 1998, except for 2009 general elections when Congress’s Partap Singh Bajwa had defeated Khanna.
 
 According to sources within the BJP, Salaria had a strong backing of yoga guru Ramdev. Being a Rajput, the party has been considering him for fetching a sizeable number of Rajput and ex-servicemen votes in the Lok Sabha constituency.
 
 Salaria was earlier the BJP national executive member and is a businessman from Chauhan village in Bhoa assembly segment falling in Gurdaspur Lok Sabha constituency. His business empire includes Chintpurni Medical College in Pathankot, Trig company providing security services, fleet of chartered planes and helicopters and hotels.
 
 Salaria has also served as chairman of the Punjab state commission for protection of child rights. He has been trying for the BJP ticket for   seat for many years. When he was not considered by the BJP in 2009, he had even joined Congress to seek Lok Sabha ticket, but failed. He returned to BJP soon after. Earlier, he had remained BJP’s party in-charge of Gurdaspur Lok Sabha elections two times.
 
 There are a total of nine assembly seats in the Gurdaspur Lok Sabha constituency and Congress had bagged seven seats in the 2017 assembly elections. Sujanpur assembly seat was bagged by the BJP and the Batala by alliance partner SAD.
 
