NEW DELHI: In the 34th edition of his radio programme " ", Prime Minister   hailed the Goods and Services Tax ( ) and said the benefits of the landmark tax reform are already visible in the upswing in the country's economy.

 "It has been one month since GST was implemented and its benefits can be seen already. GST has transformed the economy. It is also an example of cooperative federalism. All decisions were taken by both Centre and states," PM Modi said in his address to the nation.
 
 He said the successful rollout of GST is a case study that will be analysed by other countries for years to come. Further, the tax has facilitated a "friendly environment" between traders and the government as well as consumers and the Centre, which has gone a long way in building trust.
 
 PM Modi also expressed his concern regarding the flood situation in different states of the country, and assured that the Centre was working in tandem with the state government to rescue people and provide relief.
 
 "The government has deployed Army, Indian Air Force (IAF), paramilitary forces and   to flood-hit states. A 24x7 control room helpline number 1078 is functioning continuously to deal with the flood situation," he said.
 
 He added that insurance companies were being made pro-active to ensure faster settlement of farmers’ claims and those who have suffered losses in the natural calamity.
 
 The Prime Minister recalled that August was a month of revolution and historic movements like 'Non Cooperation' and 'Quit India' were launched in this month, which helped the country win independence on August 15, 1947. He said the people had united under Mahatma Gandhi's "Do or Die" call and their sacrifice helped liberate India from the British yoke.
 
 "We remember Mahatma Gandhi for his leadership during 'Quit India'and we remember leaders like Lok Nayak JP and Dr Lohia who took part in it. In 1920 and 1942 we saw two different Gandhian movements. What was common was the widespread support for Mahatma Gandhi," he said.
 
 On a lighter note, the Prime Minister revealed that he'd been told that his August 15 address to the nation is quite long-winded, and he promised to keep it short this time.
 
 PM Modi then issued a clarion call for the people of the nation: "Today, we do not have to die for the nation. We have to live for our nation and take it to new heights of progress."
 
 The Prime Minister emphasised that 2017 to 2022 are crucial for the country and urged the people to build a 'New India'. This, he said, could be achieved if everyone resolved the make the country free of poverty, terrorism, casteism and communalism.
 
 
 
 
