GURUGRAM: The police on Thursday seized three bank accounts of Profit Network, the Gurgaon-based   company that allegedly offered its investors returns for liking online pages, a modus operandi that police say is a mirror image of Noida-based Social Trade, which is accused of orechestrating a Rs 3,700-crore scam . 

 Police said they estimated over Rs 80 lakh to be deposited in these three accounts. A source said cops have identified some of those accused in the FIR — two of the company’s directors — who are likely to be arrested by Friday.
 
 The directors were running the business in the name of Profit Network, though the registered name of the company is different. Police teams are conducting raids to nab the accused in   and Delhi.
 
 The preliminary police probe has revealed a big fraud behind the scheme. Firstly, the actual name of the company is Medicom Advertising Solution Private Limited, which was registered in September 2016 at the address SF-35, Omaxe Celebration Mall in Sector 48 on Sohna road, Gurgaon. Secondly, though the scheme was being run in the name of Profit Network, all money deposits by investors in the three accounts were in the name of Medicom.
 
 “As per the record of corporate affairs in the signatory details of company Medicom, Daulat Singh Shekhawat, a resident of Jaipur, and Bharat Kumar, a resident of Alwar, are the directors of Medicom, against which name the company PAN card is registered,” said an investigating officer. 
 
 “This, though is still a matter of investigation. The company has three accounts in ICICI, IDBI and Axis banks in Gurgaon, though there could be many other accounts in other cities. Once we traced the details of these accounts, they were seized and found to hold over Rs 80 lakh. It may be that Profit Network is also registered, but money transactions were all done through accounts in the name of Medicom,” the officer added.
 
 The complainant, Vijay Kumar, said he had visited the Medicom office in Omaxe mall once in December 2016, but by the time he invested in the firm, the office had shifted to Vipul Trade Tower under new name Profit Network. “Someone called Sandeep was their liaison. He would regularly send scheme and promotion links to cellphones of investors. When my daily returns started tapering off, I visited the Vipul Trade Tower office of Profit Network, but found it locked,” said Kumar.
 
 Based on Kumar’s complaint, an FIR was registered on Tuesday at Badshapur police station. Preliminary probe revealed the company has duped many investors. “Our teams are conducting raids at locations in Delhi and Maharashtra. We hope the accused will be behind bars at the earliest,” said Sumit Kuhar, DCP (crime).
 
 
