NEW DELHI: India issued a stern warning to Pakistan that it risks dire consequences if it carried out the “farcical” 
    who it said was imprisoned on concocted charges of spying.

 “I would caution the Pakistan government to consider the consequences for our bilateral relationship if they proceed on this matter,” external affairs minister   said in Parliament, even as MPs across political lines in   and   condemned Pakistan for the kangaroo court justice meted out to 
  .
 
 Asserting that India will leave no stone unturned in ensuring that Jadhav got justice, Swaraj said the former Navy officer was engaged in legitimate business in Iran when he was “abducted and taken” to Pakistan. Swaraj said there was no evidence of any wrongdoing by him. 
 
 “If anything, he is the victim of a plan that seeks to cast aspersions on India to deflect international attention from Pakistan’s well-known record of sponsoring and supporting terrorism,” she said.
 
 Under these circumstances, India will have no choice but to regard the sentence, if carried out, as an act of 
  . 
 
 “A senior Pakistani leader ( ) has himself expressed doubts about the adequacy of evidence in this case,” she said.
 
 The process adopted by the Pakistani military court “tells us a lot about the farcical nature of the alleged proceedings which have led to indefensible verdict against an innocent kidnapped Indian”, she added.
 
 Urging the government to do its utmost to secure Jadhav’s safe release, leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad said India must engage the best of lawyers to fight the case in the  .
 
 
 
 Former defence minister A K Antony, in a rare intervention, said, “The entire nation is shocked. There will be serious repercussions. Pakistan will have to repent.”
 
 Swaraj responded by saying engaging good lawyers was “a small matter” since India was prepared to do much more, including approaching the Pakistani president on the matter.
 
 “Whatever is necessary, we will do,” she said, adding that Jadhav was “not only the son of his parents, but the son of India”.
 
 Elaborating on the sequence of events, she said the Indian high commission in Islamabad had “continuously pressed” Pakistani authorities for consular access to Jadhav from the time “his abduction” came to light in March last year but to no avail in blatant violation of international laws and norms.
 
 Then, earlier this year, Pakistan government sought India’s assistance to obtain evidence and other material for the investigation process. 
 
 “In doing so, they levelled ridiculous charges against senior Indian officials, who had no connection to this issue. 
 
 Thereafter, they linked providing consular access to our acceptance of their position,” Swaraj said. “Nevertheless, in the hope that some forward movement could be made, our response was constructive. 
 
 We pointed out that consular access to Jadhav would be an essential prerequisite in order to verify the facts and understand the circumstances of his presence in Pakistan,” she said.
 
 
