MINICOY: No doubt Lakshadweep is a lifetime experience, provided you are ready to take the risk and prepared to be 'cut off' from the world around in terms of transportation, telephone and internet connectivity. You have to plan your journey as per the availability of the vessels, and you will be able to communicate only if you have a  . 

 However, the   as well as the political leadership are in the process of improving the connectivity of the group of islands that are all set to be declared the first 'cashless' Union Territory in the country. But, before going 'cashless' as part of the Digital India initiative, the Union Territory has to improve its phone and internet connectivity, and the efforts are going on in that direction, said Lakshadweep MP Mohammed Faisal.
 
 "We have to improve the communication network including the internet connectivity, and the TRAI has been asked to augment the satellite bandwidth," he said. "The speed of 102 MbPS would be augmented to 360, and for this the Lakshadweep has to give Rs 30 a year as Opex, while the department of telecom will give Rs 42 Capex."
 
 Also, there are efforts to have submarine optical fibre connectivity into the islands so that the internet connectivity could be improved. It is expected that the approval would come by March and the project would be completed in five years, he added.
 
 At the same time, in the transportation front, things are pretty pathetic, agree the political leaders and officials alike. The need of the hour is to have daily connectivity from Kochi and other areas of the mainland to the islands.
 
 "We need inter-island connectivity in a better manner using choppers as well as boats and ships, and also the facilities to handle emergency situations," said the MP.
 
 Though there are aerodromes in most of the islands apart from an airport in Agathi Island, the issue is that there is no night landing facility and the authorities are in the process of making it possible.
 
 Though an ATR72 flight with 72-people seating capacity is operating between Nedumbassery and Agathi, it can carry only 52 passengers, as there is no refueling facility in the island and hence it has to carry the fuel for the return flight as well. Now it is planning to have two services a day to carry more passengers.
 
 Along with this, the efforts are also on to have seaplane facility, said Lakshadweep administrator Farooq Khan. He said the discussion was on with a private company, Seabird Seaplane Private Ltd, for the service, which was expected to start soon. 
 
 "Seaplane is the most environmental-friendly mode of transportation, and the lagoons here can be used as waterdromes," he said, adding that it would attract more tourists and also benefit the local residents thus addressing the issue of geographical isolation. He also said the administration was planning to strengthen its shipping fleet, so that the islands would be well connected.
 
 
