Panaji: The Goa   Association is set to expand the   to 12 teams next season with the inclusion of  , the popular Goan franchise in the   ( ).
 
  FC Goa have made a formal request to the   to field a team for the forthcoming season and the executive committee which meets on Friday are likely to give them the go ahead. The club will be admitted directly after paying a fee of Rs 10 lakh, just like   last season.
  
  The club, according to sources, intends to field its reserve team in the Goa Pro League.
  
  “As a club, we continue to strive to achieve our objectives of producing and nurturing Goan talent and we are confident that by investing in this team, we will take a step in the right direction. It will allow us to provide a natural pathway for current and future generations of footballers looking to play professionally,” the club’s chief of operations,  , wrote in a letter to GFA president Elvis Gomes last week.
  
  “With your approval, we intend to build a squad comprising of some of the best young and emerging talent in the state and allow them to test themselves against a high standard of opposition. We also see this as an opportunity for us to test players who may represent our first team in the ISL during the next edition,” said Rodrigues.
  
  The Goa Pro League and Indian Super League (ISL) will overlap to a large extent as pressure from low-budgeted teams forces the GFA to wind up the league latest by December 31. The ISL concludes mid-December.
  
  FC Goa, however, will be a huge addition to the Goa Pro League and its fan following could give the league a major boost even though most of its established players will not be seen in action.
  
  “With the calibre of the players we intend to draft into this team, we are bound to help increase the levels of quality within the league and also attract a good fan following. We aim to create a competitive environment where youngsters coming through the various age groups will get the opportunity to be part of a professional environment and play alongside the more experienced players,” said Rodrigues.
  
  FC Goa were in fact promoted to the second division league this season but chose not to participate in the league.
  
  “Akshay Tandon, president of FC Goa, recently toured Europe and visited top clubs. The idea of a reserve team appealed to him,” said a source.
  
  FC Goa finished at the bottom of the Indian Super League (ISL) ladder last season and are now determined to work their way up.
