Not since the BJP’s toehold in 1994, has a national or ‘outsider’ party managed an electoral breakthrough in Goa for over two decades. The Congress, with its moorings in the Goa  , took a significant 10 seats in the   only as late as in 1977. It won just one seat in 1972, none in ’63 or ’67, though it ruled much of the rest of India. The BJP, too, contested two elections1984 and ’89with no success, till its alliance with the   in 1994 propelled it to its first four seats in Goa.

 The Delhi-based Aam Aadmi Partyit’s not yet a national partywhich contested 39 seats, is the first since the BJP (the NCP etc, have been only on the periphery) to try and crash into the Goa power stakes in a big way. Its performance is of both, academic and political interest. It will reveal the extent to which fast-paced demographic changes in the state could impact the outcome of an election. Nearly 43% of the Goa electorate in 2017 is under 40, and AAP is known to have made a connect with young voters. Will the AAP factor damage the Congress significantly more than the fracture in the saffron camp can sabotage BJP hopes? Or will it be the other way around?
 
 One of the more intriguing facets of the 2017 election is the soaring ambitions of Goa’s oldest party, the MGP, and the many ironies that beset its current marriage of convenience with the rebel RSS man, Subhash Velingkar. Credited with brokering the crucial tie-up between the MGP and BJP in 1994, Velingkar’s strategy gave the Lotus a foot in the door that allowed it to bloom at the expense of the lion, eventually pushing the local party to the margins. Some former MGP leaders regret to this day the first alliance, and the statistics explain why.
 
 Though MGP founder Dayanand Bandodkar’s attempts to merge this former union territory into Maharashtra were sharply rejected in the January 1967 Opinion Poll, the regional party still managed to hold on to power for another 12 years, profiting hugely from the communal and caste ruptures of post-Liberation Goa. The MGP’s political popularity was at its peak during the Bandokar years, when it attracted 40.42% and 38.30% of the vote share in the ’67 and ’72 elections.
 
 But the political environment began to change visibly by 1977 with the ‘arrival’ of the Congress and departure of the United Goans Party (UGP), which was rendered practically defunct by this period. Still in power, but somewhat shakily, with Bandodkar gone, the MGP managed to nudge the halfway mark with 15 seats and 38.49% of the vote in the ’77 election. Those were the last few years the MGP would rule Goa, then a union territory with an assembly of 30 seats. By 1980, the Congress had taken over, storming to power with 20 seats, leaving the MGP trailing far behind with just seven. But significantly, the local party’s core voter base did not desert it. The MGP still retained 36.3% of the vote.
 
 Down but not out, under Ramakant Khalap’s leadership, the MGP makes an impressive recovery in less than a decade. In the 1989 election, it won 18 seats. The Congress took 20. But this was a period of immense political churning in Goa. Chief ministers and governments were being toppled even before they got to opening files. Party affiliations were becoming so blurred one forgot which politician belonged where. After exhaustive deliberations and not a few reservations on the part of many of its members, the MGP was prevailed upon to hammer out an alliance with the newcomer, BJP.
 
 In 1994, the result said it all. The Congress got 18 seats, but the MGP slumped to 12. The tie-up gave the BJP its breakthrough four seats. But, more telling was the slide in the MGP vote share. From 38.7% in ’89, there was a nosedive to 22.2% in 1994a loss of 16%. The BJP gained a whole nine per cent. And there was no stopping it from there. By the next election, the political accord between the two parties was off, but the BJP had already reversed the stakes. It won 10 seats and 24% of the vote, leaving its now lesser partner trailing far behind with four seats and a 14% vote share in ‘99. Leaders like Ramakant Khalap, too, deserted the party and moved to the Congress.
 
 By 2002, the MGP was down to just two seats and seven per cent of the vote. It did no better in 2007. Even the tie-up with the BJP in 2012 brought the ‘bahujan samaj’ party a mere three seats and only 6.7% of the vote. The five independents performed far better, taking 16.67% of the vote in 2012.
 
 What’s significant from these statistics is that the MGP has been unable to go beyond nine per cent of the vote share in the last three elections, whether it contested seven seats as it did in 2012, or 25 seats as it did in 2002 and 2007. It put up candidates for 25 seats in this election, too. Its alliance partners, Goa Suraksha Manch and Shiv Sena, fielded another eight. This begs the question: Can the MGP move beyond the political confines set by its current leaders, or is it poised to harness the simmering anger within the bahujan samaj against the BJP? 
 
 Another irony that stands out is the transformation of the MGP from the party that once drove the aspirations of the Hindu bahujan samaj, to the private limited company of the two upper caste Dhavalikar brothers, who have profited from any side of the political divide. This paradox would not have been lost on the voter.
 
 The writer is a senior journalist. The views expressed are her own
 
 
