NAGPUR: A day after she suffered her first defeat,   fought back to post her fourth victory in the World Youth   Championship at Montevideo, Uruguay, on Sunday.

 In the eighth round, Mrudul made most of her opening advantage with the white pieces to get the better of American Shreya Mangalam on their sixth board battle.
 
 The 11-day championship in three age categories is being organized by the Uruguayan Chess Federation under the auspices of the   ( ) and the World Chess Federation (FIDE).
 
 With this fighting victory and after a top-board draw between the top two seeds, the Women Chess Master (WCM) jumped to the joint third position in the U-14 girls’ group of the 11-round tournament. With four wins, three draws and a defeat Mrudul is still in contention for a world medal and is holding the fort at 5.5 points - a point behind joint leaders.
 
 In the eighth round contest too Mrudul played her favourite Kings Pawn opening move. The lower ranked Shreya, however, opted for the Kings Indian defence while Mrudul intensified her attacks, with an aim to garner full point, and converted the same into the Vienna Variation.
 
 Shreya got success in bringing the parity in just 14 moves but the American failed to match fourth seeded Mrudul in the mid-game. Within five moves, the 13-year-old Mrudul became a piece and a pawn up. She took full advantage of the same and outplayed Shreya in tactics and calculation by the 22nd move.
 
 Though the American tried to give some resistance but Mrudul’s frequent attacks made Shreya to resign in the 36th move.
 
 “It's an important victory for Mrudul, specially after a shock defeat on Saturday. Hope she has overcome that hurdle and will focus on remaining rounds positively. With the black pieces Mrudul has to be very careful in order to finish in the top three position,” city’s lone International Master   told TOI.
 
 In the ninth round on Monday, Mrudul will defend with the black pieces against Indian Women Fide Master (WFM) Jishitha D on the third table.
 
