PANAJI: Colleges are left worried that many of those aspiring for a first year seat for the BSc course will be unable to secure one:

 The Class XII science stream high scorers have already taken admissions to BSc courses as their ‘Plan B’, in case they fail to bag a professional degree seat in engineering, medicine, etc.
 
 For majority of the Class XII high scorers from the science stream, a seat at institutes such as Goa Medical College, IIT, BITs, NIT, VIT or  , is their first preference. 
 
 But, admissions to these are not finalized until mid-July. These students apply for admissions to BSc courses in different institutions, in case ‘Plan A’ doesn’t work out.
 
 “As these students have higher scores, they get a preference for BSc admissions, while students with relatively low scores are left on the waiting list. By the time the professional admissions end, by July, the students in the waiting list have already opt for some other programme for fear of being left without a seat. Meanwhile, the high scorers leave the course as they bag some professional course seat.and the BSc seats are left vacant,” said V J Pissurlekar, principal, PES College, Farmagudi.
 
 This year, Goa board Class XII results were declared early to aid admissions to professional streams, but this also meant that the BSc seats were taken even faster.
 
 A official from the directorate of technical education (DTE), which admits students to professional seats in Goa, said, “We cannot help it as for each professional programme, a national body such as the All India Medical Council, Pharmacy Council, etc have laid down the schedule for admissions to these programmes. Students in the waiting list can always go back and claim thier BSc seat once they are vacated by others in favour of professional programmes”. 
 
 But, the fear of being left without a seat makes students grab any seat they can as soon as the Class XII results are declared. Students on the lower end of scoring sheets choose to opt for   or other diploma programmes, instead.
 
 Then, there is the matter of college of choice. “I was getting a BSc seat at a government college, but i rejected it, even though they have good faculty members. It’s not just the faculty which matters, but the overall environment and the kind of students also make a difference. So, I opted for an ITI,” a student from   said.
 
