PANAJI: They won hearts, on and off the field, and lifted the trophy. But the  ,  , has been forced to fight another battle off the field: A battle where fans are even willing to go on a fast unto death to defend the title they won on Sunday.

 Aizawl scripted the greatest ever triumph in Indian football by winning the I-League, India’s premier football competition against all odds but has since been rocked by news that they will not have a chance to play in the top league. Next season, the   (AIFF) along with marketing partners IMG-Reliance hope to launch a new unified league, which will have all eight existing franchises from the Indian Super League (ISL) and three I-League teams. 
 
 But despite winning the I-League, Aizawl cannot participate in the top-tier league as it does not have the financial muscle to compete in the ISL. Aizawl FC won the I-League with an estimated budget of Rs 2.5 crore, while franchises in the ISL are understood to have incurred a minimum loss of Rs 25 crore in each of the three seasons so far. All participating franchises pay the organisers anywhere between Rs 12 crore and Rs 18 core as participation fee every year.
 
 “We will do whatever it takes to ensure that Aizawl plays in the top league. There is every possibility that there will be protests, hunger strikes and fast unto death across the country and even abroad. We will do everything,” club president Robert Royte told TOI on Tuesday.
 
 The AIFF has given enough hints that Aizawl may be out of reckoning as they have openly engaged in talks with  , East Bengal and Bengaluru FC, the three I-League clubs who are expected to be part of the unified league next season, leaving everyone else out of the equation. This means, champions Aizawl will be relegated to the second tier, or League One as it will be called, which Royte in an official letter to AIFF on Tuesday wrote is “totally unfair and unacceptable”.
 
 “Amidst unprecedented success, it has been widely reported that AIFF is intending to include three I-League clubs—Mohun Bagan, East Bengal and Bengaluru FC—while it is silent on the inclusion of the reigning champions Aizawl FC in the proposed top league. It would be totally unfair and unacceptable to relegate the champions of the top league due to its merger with unrecognized ‘inter-city’ tournament,” Royte wrote in the letter to AIFF president Praful Patel.
 
 Royte told TOI that if they are kept out of the top league, they will ensure their voice is heard not only across the country but also abroad. “We have the support of the entire country. We have sympathizers outside the country as well. We will protest everywhere, not just in Mizoram. We will protest in Mumbai, Bengaluru, Shillong, Kolkata, Delhi, Myanmar, England, and if needed, even outside the   headquarters where a good number of Mizos are based,” said Royte, a politician-cum-businessman, who owns the club.
 
 The club president said he will also galvanize support from all MPs from the northeast and knock on the doors of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
 
 “It’s sad that the AIFF haven’t told us anything. Even after being officially crowned the champions, we don’t have any communication regarding inclusion or exclusion of Aizawl (from the top tier). It’s disheartening,” he said.
 
