GURUGRAM: Overflowing   water inundating the main road in Pace City-I in Sector 37 has made life miserable for people working in   in the area.

 A few companies have already moved out of Pace City-I , while others are in despair. Pace City-I, a   hub near Hero Honda Chowk, is home to more than 150 companies.
 
 There is only one road that leads to Pace City-I. And office-goers say this road always remains waterlogged with sewage water. The situation becomes worse when rain water gets mixed with sewage water.
 
 Office goers say they are helpless and forced to bear the stench as their repeated complaints to civic authorities have fallen on deaf ears.
 
 Ramesh Mehta, working with a web outsourcing company that moved out of Pace City-I a few two weeks ago, said, “We decided to move out of that place as waterlogging was leading to multiple issues, including low attendance of employees during rains, spread of diseases among the staff and accessibility during rains. Now after four years, we moved to an office on Sohna road,” he said.
 
 Some companies have, however, expressed helplessness, saying leaving the place is not be financially feasible. 
 
 Anil Sharma, a manager at an automobile company, said, “Our office is located in our own building. If we move out, we will have to pay huge rentals, which is not financially feasible for us. Waterlogging is a severe problem here. The cars get drowned till bumpers. I don’t know how people who don’t have personal vehicles manage to access their office.”
 
 People also allege that no action has been taken by the MCG yet to address the waterlogging problem. “We have made several complaints to the MCG. The corporation only once sent a suction pump and took out the waterlogged sewage. But the problem persists as and when it rains. MCG now doesn’t even respond to our complaints,” said an industrialist, who did not wish to be named.
 
 When contacted, an MCG official said, “So far, we have not received any complaint from Pace City-I. However, we will now take adequate action as the matter has been reported to us through media.”
 
 
