Uterine Fibroids are noncancerous growths of the uterus that often appear between the age group of 35 to 54 years among women. Also called leiomyomas or myomas, uterine fibroids aren't associated with an increased risk of uterine cancer and almost never develop into cancer. Fibroids are of varied sizes, it can be like a seedling, undetectable to the human eye. At times, the fibroids are the size of bulky masses that can distort and enlarge the uterus. However, most women are not aware that they have uterine fibroids as it often causes no symptoms. 
 
 “One can have a single fibroid or multiple ones as well. Sometimes, when multiple fibroids occur, in extreme situations it can expand the uterus so much that it reaches the rib cage. These fibroids are discovered incidentally during a pelvic exam or prenatal. As it hardly causes any symptoms it becomes difficult to identify,” explained Dr  , gynecologist and fertility specialist,
 
 Symptoms are usually influenced by the location, size and number of fibroids. The most common symptoms of uterine fibroids include, heavy menstrual bleeding, menstrual periods lasting more than a week, pelvic pressure or pain, frequent urination, difficulty emptying the bladder, constipation and backache or leg pains, she added.
  
 These fibroids are not painful, only when it outgrows the blood supply and begins to die does it cause acute pain. Intramural fibroids usually grow within the muscular uterine wall and as the tumor expands it tends to make the uterus feel larger than normal, which can sometimes be mistaken for pregnancy or weight gain.
  
 The exact cause of uterine fibroids has not been determined yet. Increased risk of Uterine Fibroids occurs when one’s mother or sister has fibroids. Onset of menstruation at an early age; use of birth control; obesity; a vitamin D deficiency; having a diet higher in red meat and lower in green vegetables, fruit and dairy; and drinking alcohol, including beer, appear to increase your risk of developing fibroids. But, as per research and clinical experience doctors believe that these fibroids are developed from a stem cell in the smooth muscular tissue of the uterus. A single cell divides repeatedly, eventually creating a firm, rubbery mass distinct from nearby tissue.
  
 Dr Sinha continued, “Many fibroids contain changes in genes that differ from those in normal uterine muscle cells. There are two hormones, Estrogen and progesterone that stimulate development of the uterine lining during each menstrual cycle. It seems to promote the growth of fibroids as it contains more estrogen and progesterone receptors than normal uterine muscles do. These fibroids grow slowly or quickly, sometimes they remain the same size for a really long period of time.”
 
