HYDERABAD: The 'first daughter' of USA,  , is expected to be in the city this November. Ivanka is one of the global leaders who have been invited by the Telangana government to attend the Global Investor Summit the state government is organizing this November. She is learnt to have already conveyed her acceptance to attend the high profile meet. 

 This will be Ivanka's first visit to India after her father   took charge as the President of USA.
 
 The Global Investor Summit is being organised by the Telangana government as the state continues to work towards attracting investments from all over the world. The TRS government is associating itself with all the major industry bodies in the state and country to organise the investors' meet. 
 
 The Telangana IT and industries minister   is preparing summit's road map to ensure that the meet will attract global attention. His office has already invited several multi-national automobile, IT, pharma and aviation companies to the meet.
 
 On Wednesday, chief minister   extended an invitation to Prime Minister   to inaugurate the Global Investors' Summit.   called on Modi in New Delhi where he discussed with the prime minister a slew of issues related to the state. 
 
 The Telangana chief minister requested the prime minster to fulfil all promises made to Telangana in the Reorganisation Act on a priority basis.
 
 Meeting the PM after the Presidential election, KCR has raised several pending issues including setting up of a rail coach factory at Kazipet, steel factory at Bayyaram in Khammam district and a Tribal university. 
 
 He made it clear that several promises made to Telangana in the Act have not been fulfilled even after three years and sought early decision on these issues.
 
 He sought a special police battalion for Telangana and also higher number of IPS officers to man 31 districts in the state. He explained that after the reorganization of districts in the state, there was a shortage of police officers and pointed the issue need urgent response from the Centre. 
 
 Responding to this, the Prime Minister is said to have assured of some fresh allocations to the state. also requested the PM to examine the proposal to increase Assembly seats in Telangana.
 
