NAGPUR: Investment in   (MF) is a safer proposition even after demonetization and one can expect significant and steady returns for the next three years, said  , founder and chief strategist at AUM Financial Advisors. Panchmatia was speaking at a lecture on ‘Investment strategy post demonetization’ at   (CAIT) Hall, Gandhi Chowk, on Monday.
 
 CAIT’s national president   was also present. Panchmatia, a well-known financial adviser, prefers to call himself a ‘finance doctor’ as he believes a well-informed consultation on wealth management is as important a doctor’s medical advice.
 
 Panchmatia laid down three rules of investment i.e. safety (return of capital), ease of liquidity and return on capital. He cited safety and return on capital to be crucial and suggested to maintain balance between the two. According to Panchmatia, bank fixed deposits (FDs) are a safer compared to MF. However, long and short term gains are significantly higher with different types of MF.
 
 “Thinking that FD is a safe investment is a myth because there is no or negative real return on them,” said Panchmatia. The ‘real return’, as Panchmatia puts it, is the interest rate on FD minus the rate of inflation. Panchmatia estimated the current rate of inflation between 7 and 8% pa. With interest on FD known to be below 7% pa, returns on such an investment is negative. “You are essentially giving away your money to the bank,” he said.
 
 Panchmatia suggested investments in liquid MF instead of FD as the former offers a similar rate of return and can be liquidated at any time as opposed to the latter’s fixed term. Stock and equity MFs carry more risk but give returns between and 12 and 14% pa, which makes them ideal for long term investment, he said.
 
 Panchmatia told the audience to refrain from making payments for MF in cash or issuing cheques in an individual’s name. “This will ensure that you are not taken advantage of by fraud schemes,” he said.
 
 Investment in real-estate is another good long term plan, Panchmatia said. However, returns are not guaranteed till the next 3 years at least, he said. Though, he expects the markets to gain momentum soon after. On the other hand, Panchmatia said that bullion investments were the most risky.
 
