MUMBAI: The   ( ) is expected to keep rates on hold in its forthcoming   announcement on Wednesday. What this means is that while banks would come out with festival schemes, major revisions in benchmark   or deposit rates are unlikely.

 With inflation firming up and rupee coming under pressure, many economists feel that the   (MPC) will vote to keep the repo rate unchanged at 6%. The repo rate is the rate at which the RBI lends to banks.
 
 State Bank of India chief economic adviser Soumya Kanti Ghosh said, “The obvious question that arises is choosing between (a) the move towards the 4% inflation target swiftly, or (b) staying in the inflation band. In hindsight, if the central bank moves towards the 4% target in January 2018 as was suggested earlier, there would be limited room for rate cut in forthcoming policies.” ICRA MD Naresh Takkar said in a report on Thursday, “We do not expect a rate cut in the upcoming policy review as   (CPI) inflation is expected to chart an upward trajectory over the coming months, and print between 4.5% and 5% in March 2018.”
 
 A poll conducted by Reuters among 60 economists and other forecasters showed that although the RBI was expected to hold its key repo rate at a seven-year low of 6% next week, it will downgrade its growth forecast again following disruptions caused by the goods and services tax (GST).
 
 Calls for an interest-rate cut have grown louder after GDP growth for the Q1FY18 slowed to 5.7% — a three-year low. Also, bank credit growth has continued to be sluggish with the year-on-year figure inching up by only 6.9% as on September 15.
 
 ICRA expects the MPC to revise its baseline forecast for gross value-added growth for FY18 to under 7.3% estimated in the June and August policies. Supporting expectations that the MPC will vote for a status quo is the committee’s decision to maintain a neutral stance in its August meeting. A neutral stance indicates less likelihood of a future rate cut as compared to an accommodative stance.
 
 Two-thirds of forecasters in the Reuters poll also said there was a chance consumer inflation would overshoot the RBI’s medium-term target this fiscal year .
 
 SBI’s Ghosh said, “Currently, there are other challenges too, like an uncertain global environment and weak growth. In particular, the external environment looks a little bit wobbly compared to what it was at the beginning of 2017.” According to Ghosh, a notable feature of current capital flows is the continuing importance of external debt. “Total external debt stocks of developing countries (including India) and economies in transition are estimated to have reached $7.1 trillion in 2016 — an overall increase of 80% since 2009. No wonder, rupee is currently witnessing depreciation pressures.”
 
 
