NEW DELHI: Despite having stringent laws to preserve trees, a residential colony in   is losing its green cover owing to illegal pruning, felling and even uprooting.

 Sanjiv Kumar, a resident of Bhagirathi Apartments in Sector 9, recently filed a complaint with the police, alleging continuous pruning and cutting of over 30 trees — both inside and outside the colony’s boundary wall — over the past few months. Neither the president nor the secretary of the society has taken the forest department’s permission before undertaking these activities to raise the height of the boundary wall, residents said. While several trees were felled, many others were uprooted to concretise the area next to the wall, they added.
 
 “Over 10 trees, including those of banana and Ashoka, were uprooted inside the colony. The banana tree was uprooted on Saturday. Despite repeated complaints, no action has been taken,” said Kumar. “How can authorities turn a blind eye? We have won an award in the past for greenery in our area. It is painful to see these trees being hacked down.” 
 
 Earlier, the forest department issued a restraining order against the society president and the secretary after carrying out three inspections. A case is also pending in the Rohini court on the felling of trees in the society. However, “there is no fear of law and despite the forest department’s order, several trees were brought down recently. Uprooted trees are being used to prepare a bonfire for Holi”, said Kumar. According to the complaint, the trees included philkan, maulsari, papri and alistonia.
 
 A senior forest official said the police had been asked to take action against any such violation. “No permission was taken to cut trees,” he added.
 
 According to society vice-president  , the height of the boundary wall had also been illegally raised with taking the north corporation’s permission and several trees were “pruned” to carry out the work. “We have now written to the lieutenant governor and the chief minister. There was no permission from the corporation or the forest department in both cases. Residents feel more trees may be brought down if these are left unchecked,” said Gupta.
 
 
