GRUGRAM: For the second time in two months, the   government failed to get the   ( ) Bill passed in the Haryana assembly. This despite tall claims made by   and   that the draft bill will be passed in the   called on Thursday.

 The passage of the bill was earlier held up during the Budget session of the assembly on March 10, as the Khattar government failed to circulate a Hindi version of the draft among legislators. This time, it was due to legal issues. The only face-saver left for the government is for it to take the ordinance route, which Singh said would be done in the “next 10 days”. 
 
 “The Haryana cabinet has already given its nod to the revised draft. It was supposed to be discussed and passed in the assembly on Thursday. However, some more clarity is needed regarding the proposed city bus service, which is why it could not be passed. We now have to decide whether MCG or GMDA will operate the city bus service. In the next 10 days, we will sort out this confusion, promulgate an ordinance and get the governor’s approval.”
 
 “Since there is no clarity on when the next assembly session will be held, taking the ordinance route is the only option available to us. We’ll ensure a session is convened within six months after the ordinance is brought, to get it approved by the assembly,” he said.
 
 Officer on special duty, V Umashankar, who drafted the bill, said it was held up due to legal issues. “The bill was supposed to be discussed, but due to some legal issues, it could not be presented in the assembly,” he said. Sources also pointed out that there is still some opposition to the GMDA within the bureaucracy, which does not want the new body to be formed, as it will curtail the powers of those sitting in Chandigarh. The Haryana assembly passed nine bills on Thursday, including the Haryana Goods and Services Tax Bill, 2017, the Gurgaon University Bill, 2017. 
 
 The Gurgaon University will come up in Kankrola, with special emphasis on emerging areas of information technology and computer science education, commerce, humanities and management studies.
 
 
