NAGPUR: For the first time, the Nagpur bench of   on Wednesday allowed   of hearing of a contempt case setting a precedent. The directive came while hearing a suo motu criminal contempt petition filed against lawyer Satish Mahadeorao Uke for making wild, scurrilous and baseless allegations against lawyers, judges and even chief minister  .

 A division bench of Justice Prasanna Varale and Justice Zaka Haq issued a fresh contempt notice to the lawyer asking him to reply before February 22. Charges under Contempt of Court Act were framed against him, according to additional government pleader Ketki Joshi. Uke was told to furnish a surety of Rs2 lakh in cash before next hearing.
 
 The judges directed court registry to make arrangements of video recording of proceedings and government was told to bear expenditure on it. Earlier, the court had delivered judgments, including that of Khairlanji massacre, through video conferencing facility.
 
 The judges rejected Uke’s plea to challenge February 1 order where he was restrained from filing any application, complaint or proceedings against court officials/employees, lawyers, government and additional/assistant pleaders, and sitting judges. He was told that the hearing wouldn’t be adjourned on the request of the lawyer engaged by him or for any other reason.
 
 Joshi told TOI that during one of hearings, Uke was recording the proceedings through his mobile phone which the judges objected to. He was told to make an application if he wanted to record proceedings. Accordingly, he made that application that was allowed on Wednesday.
 
 During last hearing, Uke was told to deposit his passport with the registrar (judicial) and if did not have one, submit an affidavit in this regard. He was also told to file another affidavit giving details of proceedings filed/initiated by him, including those disposed of, in which he appeared in person. He was further asked to submit an affidavit giving details of all his immovable properties. The respondent was allowed to make a request to chief justice for constitution of any other bench and he could challenge the judgment/order passed by this court.
 
 The suo motu cognizance was taken by Justice  , who restrained the court registry, judges and other officers, including lawyers, from entertaining any plea filed by Uke without its permission, on June 7 last year. The court’s directives came while deciding a civil revision application filed by Uke himself, where he was told to file reply to contempt notice.
 
 Justice Deshpande directed to place his order before the CJ for treating it as a contempt petition. “There is a definite act of browbeating the court to obtain favourable orders. A judge may recuse at his own choice from a case entrusted to him by CJ and it would be a matter of his own choosing. But recusal at the instance of litigating party, unless justified, must never be acceded to,” he noted.
 
