PUNE: Top Army veterans, who were a part of several important operations, have backed Army Chief General Bipin Rawat’s decision of resolving complaints internally and suggested strengthening of the existing mechanism for the redressal of grievances.

 They feel that venting of grievances by soldiers on the social media is a new phenomenon. It is a challenging aspect and its severity is bound to increase with the development and proliferation of technology. Serious attention has to be paid as it has a potential to promote indiscipline, spread disaffection, weaken officer-man cohesion and undermine morale.
 
 Major General   (retd), who has commanded 113 Engineer Regiment in Leh-Siachen sector, said, “The Army has a sound mechanism in place to redress soldiers’ grievances. In personal issues, every solider has a right to seek audience with his senior through an ‘Arzi report’. In case his company commander is unable to solve the problem, the matter is referred to the unit commander. Level of the report keeps getting raised till the aggrieved solider gets full redressal.”
 
 If the Arzi report route fails to satisfy a solider fully, he can submit a written appeal to the Army Chief (non-statutory complaints). “All intermediate headquarters are required to study them and take necessary curative action, if within their powers. In case they are unable to resolve the matter, the case is put up to the higher authorities, till it reaches the Army headquarters. A final decision is taken by the Army Chief. If still unsatisfied, an aggrieved solider can approach the Central government through a statutory complaint,” Suman added.
 
 The veteran, however, said that in some units, due to shortage of officers, a certain degree of complacency had crept in the Arzi report process. Written complaints rarely elicit response in the specified time frame.
 
 Lt Gen DB Shekatkar (retd), who is heading a special committee appointed by the government to enhance the combat capability of the force, said the existing redressal system is transparent and competent and hence soldiers should use it for airing their issues.
 
 Major   (retd), who is a member of the   and the Law of War of Brussels, pointed out that opportunity of personal hearing has many advantages. “We need to have more interactions and opportunities to hear grievances so that negative feelings do not manifest themselves in illegal manner such as social media. Also, the grievances need to be disposed of in a time-bound manner,” Singh said. 
 
 A report by defence minister’s committee of experts on minimizing litigation and strengthening institutional mechanism related to redressal of grievances states: “The system of opportunity of hearing also provides a catharsis to individuals who may feel stifled at times and, hence, provides an outlet to at least open up before the competent authority. It becomes all the more important in defence services where there is no trade unionism or associations, and rightly so. It becomes even more important in the stratified rank structure environment and physically long distance of location.”
 
