NEW DELHI: A jubilant Captain   of the   found occasion to have a double celebration today after he won the Patiala seat by a margin of over 51, 000 votes, even as his party successfully fended off a challenge from main contender, the Aam Aadmi Party.

 "Kejriwal was a summer storm, he came and (now) he's gone," said Amarinder after it became clear the Congress was sweeping (away AAP) in Punjab.
 
 The Congress has won Punjab with at least 59 of 117 seats.
 
 Amarinder was also celebrating his 75th birthday too. He couldn't have expected anything better.
 
 He was scathing about the ruling   (SAD) and said it attacked brought the state "down to its knees".
 
 "Anybody who is found involved in the drug scourge will be dealt (with) as per law, howsoever powerful he may be. I have said within four weeks we will tackle this drugs problem," Singh, who was the Congress' chief ministerial face, told a crowded press conference here.
 
 Singh, who was the Punjab Chief Minister from 2002 to 2007, said his party is also committed to providing good governance, besides focusing on health and education, which too will be priorities.
 
 Asked whether Navjot Singh Sidhu, who had joined Congress from the BJP ahead of the polls would be made Deputy Chief Minister, Singh said these decisions would be taken by party Vice President   as Congress chief   is presently abroad.
 
 "We will give our recommendation, but the final decision lies with Rahul ji," he said.
 
 Most exit polls either predicted an AAP victory or said the election in the state was too close to call. The Congress was leading in 75 seats, AAP in 23 and DAD (SAD) combine in 17.
 
 PM  . whose BJP didn't perform too shabbily congratulated Amarinder.
 
  
  Amarinder thanked Punjab for giving him a chance in Punjab again.
 
  
  The Punjab President of the Congress thanked his party too, for giving him a chance to take the initiative in the state.
 
 
  He said he's called a Congress legislative party meeting tomorrow at 2 pm, while a decimated Shiromani chief minister Parkash Singh Badal said he would resign tomorrow.
 
  "Tomorrow I will submit my resignation to the Governor," Badal said. "We will discuss the reasons in the core committee meeting and each aspect of our performance in the elections," he added, about the SDA-BJP combine looking to win a mere 17-odd seats.
 
 
 
