HUBBALI: There was chaos during the water adalat at the   organized by the Karnataka Urban   (KUWSDB) here on Tuesday.

 The adalat covered 16 wards (from No. 43 to 59) and people raised their voice against the KUWSDB for not   at the scheduled hour.
 
 A KUWSDB officer tried to convince people to be calm, but public didn’t want hear to any explanation, and demanded water be supplied first.
 
 Kallappa Tigari, a resident of Wad No. 47, alleged that the authorities have been trying to recover water bill dues through the adalat. “They don’t try to supply water as promised. The adalat organized by KUWSDB is only a formality and to recover pending dues. They don’t want to listen to our grievances,” he added.
 
 “The KUWSDB supplies water once a fortnight. Earlier , we’d get water once every five days. Moreover, the authority doesn’t forget to recover dues regularly. We won’t pay the water bill in February if the board doesn’t supply water once every five days,” said Shekharappa Kyarikatti, a resident of J C Nagar. 
 
 Ramesh Diggavi, a resident of Station Road, said people waste a huge amount of water. They’re covered under the 24x7 water supply scheme on a pilot project. But, people from most areas don’t get sufficient water at the scheduled time. “KUWSDB authorities should manage water supply to every ward because many wards don’t get water even once a week,” he said.
 
 “KUWSDB should organize a water adalat for three wards at a time because people can’t talk about their problems in this huge crowd. Officers too won’t share information about their problems,” said Mohankrishna Kulkarni, a Ward 51 resident.
 
 When contacted, Ashok Madyal, executive engineer, KUWSDB, said the adalat is a good way to understand people’s problems and issues related to water bills. “We get good feedback from the public through adalats and we can solve their problems quickly,” he said.
 
 He said they’ll solve problems and trying to encourage payment of pending water bills. He said people are facing inconvenience in getting water in some wards and these issues will be resolved soon.
 
