For the residents of Noida Sector 21, the day usually starts with a laughter session in the colony park attached to the  . Thursday morning, however, was a special one as many gathered at the community centre to celebrate the World Laughter Day, which is on May 7. Dr  , Union Minister of State for Culture & Tourism (Independent Charge) along with Dr  , founder of laughter clubs movement were the chief guests at the event.

  
  A LOL moment for the minister: Dr Mahesh Sharma, Union Minister of State for Culture & Tourism (Independent Charge) striking a pose on Laughter Day celebrations at Noida (BCCL/ Lokesh Kashyap)
 
 
 Mahesh Sharma was welcomed with rose petals and laughter. During the event, it was also revealed that the minister has been associated with laughter yoga for quite some time. Commodore (Retd)  , the founder of the club, instructed the crowd, "Everyone will first laugh like we all are 5 years and below, then like we are 25 and above, and then like 100 year and beyond."
 
  Dr Santosh Sahi, the laughter ambassador for Delhi also participated in the event. Sharing his mantras with the crowd, Kataria said, "Ek do teen chaar, din mein hasso baar baar. Paanch cheh saath aath, hass ke karo sabse baat. Aaj kal ki tanaav bhari zindagi mein kitne log dukhi hain, aap logon ko chod ke!"
 
 
  
  
 
  
  (L) Commodore (Retd) Ashok Sawhney
 
  
 "Mujhe abhi pata chala hai ki mantri ji bhi doctor hain. Hasne se body mein oxygen badhta hai aur koi diseases nahin hoti hai. The immune system also gets stronger," added Kataria. The group tried out innovative types of laughters, like appreciation laughter and mantri ji laughter. 
 
  During the event, Kataria also requested the minister to make laughter yoga a part of morning assembly in schools. Mahesh Sharma said, "Hasnaa ek saamanya prakriya hai, koi soch bhi nahi sakta tha ki Dr Kataria isey ek aandolan bana denge. This movement should reach the younger generation. Through Ministry of Ayush, now, we will also try and promote laughter yoga."
 
  Talking about Noida residents, Kataria said, "My association with Noida, and especially this laughter club has been very special. These are the happiest people I have ever met. It's always wonderful meeting them."
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
