MUMBAI: Controversial BJP leader   hangs in balance 10 months after he quit the state cabinet as a judicial probe against him in an alleged Pune Maharashtra Industrial Development Corpporation (MIDC) land grab case is yet to be completed. 

 Even after four extensions-the last one ended on March 31-a state-appointed committee comprising a retired Bombay high court judge to yet to submit its report. Also, chief minister   is yet to decide on whether to grant further extension to the committee, that was to originally submit its report in September 2016. 
 
 "No decision has been taken on whether to grant further extension to the committee," Fadnavis told TOI. 
 
 As the committee is yet to submit its report and is also yet to get further extension, Khadse knocked at the doors of the CM to know for himself the present status of the probe and if there is scope for him to return in the state cabinet. Khadse's contention was that a public interest litigation has been filed against him and on the same matter, he was being investigated by the committee under the Commission of Inquiry Act.
 
 When it was alleged that Khadse's wife   had illegally purchased a prime piece of MIDC land near Pune, Khadse, on June 4, 2016, submitted his resignation to the CM for a fair probe into the allegations. Fadnavis accepted his resignation and on June 23, 2016, appointed a one-member committee of former HC judge Justice D S Zoting. The panel was asked to probe if the land acquisition process was complete, whether the land belonged to MIDC and whether due process of law was followed in the transaction and make recommendations to the government on such transactions in future. The committee was asked to submit its report within three months.
 
 Khadse was under impression that he would be out of the cabinet for three months or maximum at the most six months as there was nothing illegal in the transaction. 
 
 Khadse had always maintained that the land under dispute was never acquired by MIDC and there was nothing illegal in the transaction. The main allegation against Khasdse was that he had misused his position as a cabinet member, despite the fact that the land under dispute was notified for taking over by MIDC.
 
 
