CHANDIGARH: Father of a girl studying in Chitkara International School, Sector 25, has written a complaint to UT Inspector General of Police (IGP) to take a strict action against the school authorities for endangering life of his daughter, on Sunday. Raman  , a resident of Sector 39A, in his complaint written to  , stated that Chitkara school authorities must be booked for committing cognizable offences of breach of trust, fraud, negligence and deliberate/intentional breach of mandatory safety provisions imposed by law, which resulted in putting lives of school children in danger. 

 Parkesh in his complaint mentioned that that at the time of admission of his daughter in the school, "the management extended me vast assurances regarding safety of children travelling in school buses and only on assurances given by them, I agreed to admit my daughter in their school and availed the transport facility by paying their high fees; and all my hopes got shattered when one day I saw that my daughter was very terrified and frightened when she came home after her school. When we inquired, she said that the driver of her bus was very rash and negligent and two-three times, the bus nearly hit other vehicles. In another shocking instance, the bus driver left my daughter unattended at the drop-off point which was unacceptable. 
 
 "I have complained to the concerned school management who assured me safety of my child but to no avail, as on January 11, 2016, my daughter was travelling in the school bus and due to the rash and negligent driving of the driver, the vehicle met with an accident. The bus was driven at such a high speed that it overturned and fell on the opposite side of the road."
 
 Parkesh said, "My daughter had to undergo a surgery for this and is still in trauma. She initially had undergone three stiches on her hand and on January 14, her finger was operated on. This operation took 1.5 hours and seven more stiches were needed on one of her fingers. We still do not know whether one more operation will be needed for her other finger. Even after a hike of 71% in transport fee, my daughter is not safe."   police station has registered an FIR only against driver of the bus under sections 279 and 337 of  , while the school management has been spared, rued Parkesh. 
 
