Nagpur: The state education department will soon frame new guidelines to ensure safety of school kids on campus and prevent chances of abuse. Nand Kumar, secretary of the state’s school education department told TOI that there will be an aggressive stance taken while formulating the guidelines. “We have a zero-tolerance policy when it comes to child abuse. My ultimate goal is to see that in our state we do not have even a single case where a child is harmed,” said Kumar, who was in city to launch the Mission 1 Million football campaign.  Gurugram’s Ryan International school tragedy has got the state education department thinking on how to guarantee the safety of every child on campus. TOI had reported earlier on how cops are offering their assistance for this campaign. “For us, the priority is to prevent such incidents from happening, in which case the ‘detection’ part is redundant. A plan is being made to see how all resources at our disposal can empower the child in such a way that no one takes undue advantage,” said Kumar. For counsellors, Kumar felt the need to rope in professionals. “The state has been approached by people who shared their experiences in working with kids across the world and how they can help at local level as well. We are listening to everybody and all these inputs will be useful in the final guidelines,” said Kumar. The top bureaucrat in the education department hinted that the guidelines will also cover school’s infrastructure. “Security audit also has to be done and our own people (education officials) can play a major role in it. But as I said, the plan is being worked out and soon we shall have something concrete,” said Kumar.  Apart from schools, Kumar is also in-charge of all junior colleges in the state in which many institutes are reporting vacant seats despite multiple admission rounds. Kumar said, “Non-performing colleges will get affected because the admission system is completely transparent and only students can decide.” With the admission process shifting online, colleges get allotted to students based on their merit rankings and preferences. Those colleges that don’t feature in the preference list are struggling with the baggage of their vacant seats. Kumar also clarified about the academic qualifications needed for teachers seeking jobs at elementary level. The education department in Chandrapur district had asked many teachers to complete their Diploma in Education even though they had a Bachelors in Education. It seemed bizarre to everyone but some officials in Chandrapur said the diploma was a necessity. Kumar said, “That’s an incorrect interpretation of the rules. What we require is a trained teacher which means someone who possess either a diploma or degree in education. Going by these conditions, it is obvious that the holding a B. Ed makes D. Ed redundant.” A CBSE school principal said this clarification comes as a major relief. “The local education officers were forcing teachers to register for a diploma course before September 17, hence Kumar’s statement comes in nick of time,” the principal said. 