 rose to fame with his debut book 'Ravana' followed by the 'Ajaya' series, all of which are best-sellers. And now the mythological-fiction writer, who also works on scripts of leading mythology-based television shows, is roped in to write the prequel of the blockbuster-hit movie Bahubali. Anand Neelkantan is all set to release the first book of the   titled ' ' this month. In a brief interaction with us, the author spoke about his love for weaving mythological tales, his penchant for negative characters and what it takes to be a writer. Excerpts:

 
 
 Not only my debut Novel Asura, but also my two book Ajaya series, were written from the so called villain’s perspective. If Asura was Ravana’s Ramayana, Ajaya was Duryodhana’s Mahabharata. I had been more fascinated by the negative characters from my childhood. They appear more humane and relatable to me. I always felt we all have either Ravana or a Duryodhana inside us. Perhaps the complexities of a modern world requires Ravana like qualities for survival.
 
 
 
 When I started writing Asura almost a decade back, it was not a trend. In fact, many of my friends who knew about my project said that mythology would not sell. The publishers were afraid to touch mythology based writing. I wrote them because I was passionate about what I wanted to tell. I was fortunate that when my books hit the stands, Indian readers had started lapping up mythology. Fortunately, what I wanted to tell was refreshingly different from the conventional ways of telling mythology. I was flipping the plot and the characters and it appealed to the youth. There are no grandparents at homes anymore and even if they are there, they are not telling their grandchildren’s the stories they would have heard from their grandparents. The present day mythology based books are filling this need. But like any trends, this too will pass and the only books that will be remembered are the ones that would read great irrespective of the genre or the time it was written in. 
 
 
 
 Which epic story is not about people fighting to rise to power? I think Mahabharata might have inspired   a lot. It is unfortunate that when we have such a rich heritage we are getting compared to western authors. I am not undermining their contribution. R R Martin is a great author and I admire him, but my inspirations are Mahabharata and countless folk tales that our country has produced in the last five millennia or more. In Indian stories, we find many examples of secret languages spoken by spies and the officials. There are many lost languages, secret codes, societies, etc in our history. We need not take inspiration from the west. We have a far richer story telling culture.
 
  
 
 
 Passion. I am passionate about the stories, their various forms, the art, the craft and everything to do with storytelling. 
  
 
 
 Morning 4 to 8 is my writing time. But I am writing in my mind whenever I am conscious. I write when I walk, I write when I take bath. The stories never leave me. Deadlines are a good way to spur creativity. I am a lazy person by nature and I never try to control my mind. I do not believe in meditation. I love to let my mind free. And stories just flow in when I let my mind wander. Trying to control mind is a futile exercise and I never do it. But deadlines give me a focus, a path on which my mind can race. I hate deadlines, but it is a professional requirement. I cannot avoid it and I have learned to work with it. 
 
 
 
 I face the writer’s block every moment. I deal with them by not trying too hard. If I get stuck with one story, I move to another story. That refreshes the mind. Or I just jot down new story ideas. Most will be worthless, but slowly they will grow in my mind and blossom at the most unexpected time. 
 
 
 
 I do that by considering every character as a human. I take out all magical and mythological elements and imagine them as history. Then every scene should have a logical explanation. I cannot hide behind the magic of some weapon or boons given by Gods. Each scene has to make sense to the present day reader. There are no unbelievable happenings or wild theories in my book. I do not try to say ancient India was advanced in nuclear technology and Brahmastra is a nuclear weapon. The advantage is that my books read more like a historical narrative than an epic and this makes my books more believable and the characters more relatable.
 
 
 
 The story and characters have already been created and they have got etched in the minds of the public. The original story was written by an outstanding writer, Sri  , father of   and the director had done a spectacular job with the script. I had to create the same magic with words, create new characters, give a gripping plot, draw out deep characterisation and I had to do all these in 100 days. I achieved this by following a strict writing schedule.
  
 
 
 Veda Vyasa, Valmiki, Kalidasa, M T Vasudevan Nair, Tolstoy, George R R Martin, Tolkein, Joseph Heller- the list is long.
 
 
 
 There are no rules in writing. I write every minute in my mind. Stories churn, mix and burst, every breathing moment. Ideas spark and I try to capture them before they vanish into the dark recess of my mind. I jot down in my mobile, I record my thoughts and I keep imagining. I see stories everywhere. I write without a plot or a plan and let it evolve naturally. I imagine in scenes rather than in plot and I become the characters that I write.
  
 
 
 Read like your whole life depends on it. And your writing life indeed depends on reading. Read wide, read deep and read what you had read before again and again. There is no escaping from reading. But reading is only half the job. There has to be a writing schedule where you will put to paper or your computer all the stories that flash through your mind. There has to be a cocky arrogance about your ability to write and humility to accept that mostly what you write is going to be crap in the first two or three drafts. 
 
 
 
 Imagination is the most important part followed by emotions and character empathy. Plot and narration will naturally follow once we are able to imagine the scenes.
 
 
