Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court issued a notice to Chandigarh administration on a petition filed by the   of Chandigarh on Tuesday. The plea has prayed for quashing of the orders of the department of industries, Chandigarh administration, dated April 27, 2011, whereby an application filed by a member of the association for registration as micro, small and/or medium enterprises had been declined without assigning any reason. 

 Similar petitions were filed on July 20, 2015, April 21 and July 14, on which the administration and department of industries held that the as per the Industrial Policy 2015 notified by the administration, the applications filed by the members of association for registration as micro, small and/or medium enterprises could not be considered for premises situated within Industrial Area I & II, Chandigarh. The petitions had also prayed for quashing of the industrial policy notified by the Chandigarh administration, prohibiting enterprises engaged in service sector and operating from premises within Industrial Area I and II, Chandigarh. The matter would come up for hearing on September 15.
 
 The administration is reportedly not registering these units as these come under manufacturing sector. But it was argued that this sector also came under the service sector. It was also argued that the service sector contributed more than 64% to the GDP.
 
 The petition moved by president of the association Arun Mahajan stated that members of the association had submitted applications seeking registration as enterprises (micro, small or medium as per their entitlement) under the MSME Act with the UT Administration. But the applications were rejected by the department of industries, holding that for retail sales via sales and marketing store and warehousing hotels and motels, the applicant cannot be registered as entrepreneur and issued entrepreneur memorandum without change of trade of the premises permitted by the estate officer, UT Chandigarh. Against this order, memorandums were given to various authorities, including minister of micro, small and medium entrepreneur, government of India.
 
 In the notification dated March 26, 2013, the estate officer, UT, Chandigarh, has already allowed the use of industrial plots in Industrial Area, Phase I and II, from one kind of manufacturing activity to any other manufacturing activity and that too without conversion charges. It was alleged that the administration had time and again embraced the changed economic activity, but the same had been stuck in red tapism.
 
 
