NOIDA: Ruling out the   or any other front, expelled   hinted that he would form a new front within a few days after taking suggestions from his supporters.

 "We are taking suggestions from all our supporters. The front would be formed within 10-15 days," he told TOI.
 
 When asked if the "front" would be a political party which will participate in the   in the future, he said that the suggestions are being sought to figure out the same.
 
 When asked by reporters citing example of   who joined the BJP after promising the formation of a new front and his meeting with the CM, he said that his meeting with CM Yogi Adityanath on May 15 was held only to demand security and there were no talks about his joining the party.
 
 "As I have already informed, I met CM Yogi only because there is a threat to me, my family and my supporters from a certain gang (of Mayawati) and hence I have demanded protection from CM Yogi. I did not meet him because I wanted to join their party. There is no such talk," he said.
 
 "I have held meetings in Lucknow, today in Noida and tomorrow too. Because the assembly session is on, we will hold meetings in Lucknow again on 22-23. On May 25, I will go to Bundelkhand. There will be similar consultations there. Till Thursday, around 60000 people have left BSP. These include ex-MPs and ex-MLAa, former zone coordinators, etc. These are our supporters and hence, we will take a final call once suggestions come from all sides," he told reporters.
 
 When specifically asked by reporters what he meant when he said that the BSP supremo could get people killed, he refused to "disclose anything".
 
 "I said that she can get people killed and if I disclose the same, there will be an earthquake and I don’t want that to happen, hence I will not disclose," he said.
 
 Sitting amid a group of around 100 supporters- mostly Muslims and Dalits, Siddiqui sought their suggestions on whether to form another front or join a party.
 
 However, he shied away from giving any proof against Mayawati after the tapes which purportedly show her directing him to take money from the BSP candidates.
 
 "When I did a press conference (on May 11, I clarified that I am not trying to attack anyone but rather, trying to save my own self, my supporters from someone else’s fury. In fact, I will try to prove myself correct by giving all the details of my innocence. It was not I who started it. It was the party people who came to the press first. Hence, I will only come out when they (BSP) make any move," he said.
 
 
 He claimed that the party leadership usurped a sum of around Rs. 72,00,000 from an NRI businessman based in Sharjah, UAE who basically belongs to Azamgarh.
 
