MARGAO: The multi-level pay   (MLCP) project at   will be made operational once the construction of a wall between it and the airport terminal building is complete. 

 The construction of the wall has been recommended by the   (DRDO) with a view to eliminate the threat perception as the parking project directly faces the tarmac. 
 
 “The DRDO has cleared the MLCP project. No structural changes have been recommended. However, it has stipulated that a wall be constructed to obstruct the view of the tarmac from the car park building, as it is being viewed as a perceptible threat. The wall is under construction and will be completed within the next six months,” South Goa MP Narendra Sawaikar told TOI after chairing a meeting of the airport advisory committee on Wednesday. 
 
 Sawaikar said that the multi-level car parking project would then be made operational, which will probably be by January or February next year. 
 
 The parking building constructed by   at   airport can accommodate 540 cars at a time. Though the building was completed a couple of years ago, along with the integrated terminal building of Dabolim international airport, the facility was not put to use owing to security issues raised.
 
 Sawaikar further told TOI that the old airport terminal building will be demolished to make way for a new structure that will be used as an extended facility for vehicle parking. “The plans (for the new structure) are being prepared. NOCs (from authorities concerned) have already been obtained. Work will start soon. The additional parking facility that will be provided here will have 3-4 taxi bays,” Sawaikar said. 
 
 During the discussion on immigration problems faced by e-visa passengers, Sawaikar said, “The system is being upgraded, more counters will be put up; accordingly more staff will also be deputed.”
 
 While the expansion of the new terminal building will take place in a year’s time, issues pertaining to signages, toilet facilities and others will be sorted out in six months time, Sawaikar said. 
 
 He further said that a meeting of   and neighbouring panchayat bodies will soon be held by Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida to discuss and decide about the disposal of garbage at the airport.
 
 
