NEW DELHI:   says he has no regrets of publicly lambasting the West Indies board post victory in last year's World T20 final which effectively became his last international match till date.

 Two-time World T20 winning captain, Sammy is busy playing T20 Leagues all around the world but still cares about West Indies cricket. He also remains available for selection in limited overs format but has passed the stage where he would sulk over being ignored again and again.
 
 "It is sad that my last international was the World T20 final. I am still available for selection in limited overs cricket but I am not going to cry over non-selection," Sammy, who is part of   in this  , told PTI.
 
 "I am still out there playing in the different leagues around the world, if selected I am available. But I am not crying over spilt milk."
 
 Sammy had made an emotional speech before accepting the winners' trophy at the Eden Gardens, the venue for the World T20 final.
 
 "People were wondering whether we would play this tournament. We had a lot of issues, we felt disrespected by our board ... I am yet to hear from them. That is very disappointing," Sammy had said during the live broadcast.
 
 His outburst expectedly did not go down well with the West Indies board, which reprimanded him along with the likes of  . Looking back, the affable all-rounder from St. Lucia has no regrets.
 
 "What I said on the podium after winning the final, I said it from my heart. I said what I had to. I expected things to happen. But I don't lose sleep over it anymore.
 
 "God has blessed me tremendously. He is my selector. So I am not worried about what is going to happen. I still do care about West Indies cricket but if I am not selected I am not going to sulk over it," he said.
 
 Sammy joined the Kings XI Punjab squad late due to the injury he suffered during the Hong Kong league in March, after which he went back home for recovery.
 
 With Kings XI aiming to seal a play-off berth, Sammy is yet to get a game for the "settled" unit.
 
 "I am just waiting for my opportunity. Obviously, the coaching staff is trying to get the right combination. I also came in late from injury, so I am just waiting for my chance," said Sammy, who is liked by fans all around the world.
 
 The 33-year-old has played previously for Sunrisers Hyderabad and Royal Challengers Bangalore in the IPL. Sammy is liking the atmosphere of the team mentored by Virender Sehwag.
 
 "Every team brings a different approach. Sehwag we all know was quite a relaxed person during his days in the Indian dressing room and we have an aggressive captain in  ," Sammy said.
 
 "It is different and it is something that I am able to adjust to. I have played enough around the world to do that. At the end of the day, it is cricket you play on the field that matters most."
 
 Sammy was one of the few international cricketers who made the trip to Lahore for the Pakistan Super League final while others like Kevin Pietersen gave it a miss due to security concerns.
 
 Recalling the experience, Sammy says it was satisfying to play a small role in bringing cricket back to Pakistan.
 
 "PSL is a good tournament, it is improving every year. On top of it, my team (Peshawar Zalmi) won. Obviously, the experience in Lahore was something different. I am glad I played a small role in bringing cricket to Pakistan.
 
 "The fans were crazy. They wanted to see cricket. When I entered the stadium I felt I was playing in St. Lucia. There were serious questions raised before going there but I am glad I went," he added. 
 
 
