HYDERABAD: Nearly 12 percent of the 670 patients checked during an awareness programme at the state-run Gandhi hospital were found to have symptoms of  's Syndrome, a rare disease which was unheard of in the city. 

 The disease causes extreme dryness of eyes and mouth with patients needing to sip water or liquids to be able to talk for even five minutes. The disease is classified into two types- rheumatoid Sjogrens syndrome (less common) and primary Sjogren's Syndrome (rare). 
 
 Four patients suffering from the primary type were found during the awareness drives conducted last month, but what is more alarming is that most of the patients suffering from the symptoms are often misdiagnosed, sometimes mistreated and almost always rounded off to psychiatrists.
 
 "Awareness about this rare disease is low even in the medical fraternity that the diagnosis becomes the most difficult part. The prevalence of this syndrome is four in 1 lakh population," said Dr  , member Sjogren's Syndrome Foundation and Society of Hospital Medicine, USA, who was part of the awareness drive at Gandhi hospital.
 
 Apart from dryness of mouth, redness of eyes, a constant sensation of having foreign particles in the eyes, joint pains (in case of rheumatoid Sjogrens) and extreme fatigue ar the other symptoms. The syndrome affects multiple organs in the body leading to vision loss, seizures and even stroke, if remained undetected for long. The disease affects the entire immune system and cannot be cured but can be controlled with medicines, doctors said.
 
 Due to lack of awareness, patients suffering from either type are mostly put on psychiatric medicines say experts. "With diagnosis being difficult and the need to rule out all other tissue diseases, by the time patients are referred to a rheumatologist, they are already on psychiatric medicines. These medicines only worsen their dryness problem. Since the symptoms of the disease are very vague, in many cases they are mistaken for either Vitamin D or Vitamin B 12 deficiency or psychiatric illness," explains Dr  , senior consultant rheumatologist,  , Secunderabad.
 
 Rheumatologists working for nearly two decades have confirmed seeing just 15 to 16 cases of the primary type. 
 
