The unforgettable melodies and celebrated superstars of Indian cinema apart, there were a number of other things that seemed peripheral, but were intrinsic to the industry’s journey and childhood memories of many a generation. Tent cinemas or 
  talkies, as they were popularly known as, not just took films to the remote areas of the country, but also played a pivotal role in educating people about performance arts and their importance in the society. So much so that these travelling theatres at one point in history became a part of the nation’s culture and heritage. Sadly though, the showmen whose lorries maneuvered through bumpy gravel roads, carrying a treasure trove of blockbuster film reels, a projector screen and a 
 , have now lost their value to the comforts of air-conditioned multiplexes and digitally advanced modes of watching a film. A filmmaker duo now traces the life of India’s last-surviving tent cinemas in a  . Written and directed by   and  , 
  has already been critically acclaimed a at a number of film festivals globally — including Cannes, Busan, Toronto, New York and Mumbai — as well as won awards, the latest being the Special Jury Award in the non-feature category at the 64th National Film Awards.

  The research for this 1 hour 36 minute documentary was supported by Bengaluru-based India Foundation for the Arts. The film was recently screened in the city for the first time. Ahead of the show, Amit told 
 , “It all started in the year 2006 out of sheer curiosity. As kids, we have either heard of tent cinemas or seen them in films. But to actually meet them in person and understand the way in which they operate has been an incredible experience. It’s quite thought-provoking to know how people not many decades ago would flock to these 
  to watch their favourite heroes, ignoring the heat or, at times, poor quality screening. Although the cinema travellers are slowly fading away and their revival seem doubtful, this culture surely exemplifies the power of cinema in India.”
 
 
