NEW DELHI: The members of the   have resigned from all voluntary administrative positions in   against the “secretive and hurried manner” adopted by the college authority while applying for the   status. They said the principal was aiming to secure autonomy before the next academic session. 

 Students also protested on Wednesday by “occupying” Andrews Court, a portion of the lawn that is usually out of bound to them. They said the principal had been evading questions on how the administration planned to bring autonomy to the institution, and had not been able to provide a blueprint. 
 
 “The teachers got the notice that a governing body (GB) meeting will be held on Saturday to discuss the autonomy matter, and no time was given to deliberate or discuss the agenda of the meeting. We had a few successive holidays in the university soon after the notice was issued,” said Benston John, an economics professor. In the meeting, all four teacher-members voted against the decision. The governing body has 16 members. 
 
 However, both teachers and students are saying that their protest is not so much about the issue of autonomy but about the way the decision was taken without including all stakeholders. “They want to bring in new courses, but we don’t have a corpus to fund them. For funds, students’fees will be increased. Also, the type of courses considered may not gel with the character of the college. This, in turn, will bring in a change in the kind of crowd that might not be as inclusive as the one before,” said Benston. Äutonomy is not a process that can be completed within a few months, he added. “We need to sit down and plan how the autonomy will affect stakeholders.” 
 
 The students too claimed that the decision was being made by a set of people who had nothing to do with the academics of the college. “Most members of GB are from Church of North India. They are not in the direct administration or even from alumni. How can they decide the future of the children who come to this college?” questioned Archita Sarangi, a second-year student.
 
 The students also said the administration had been trying to evade their questions, despite having promised to offer an explanation. “We had a three-hour meeting on Saturday, and we asked some basic questions. But the administration was not available to answer our questions. We were told that some GB members will meet us on Wednesday at 3pm. But that too was cancelled. So we had to organise the protest,” said another student.
 
 The non-teaching staff of the college have also expressed solidarity with the students and the teachers on the matter.
 
