BENGALURU: Imagine starting your mornings with a bowl of silkworm soup! Researchers at the   in Chintamani taluk of   district are working on just that.

 They are experimenting on developing a range of food products and beauty-enhancing items made of silkworm pupae and cocoon, and these will be out in the market soon. While such food products and beauty creams are common in China, Japan and Hong Kong among other countries, this is probably the first time that an institution in India is involved in developing them.
 
 According to researchers from the College of Sericulture, which functions under the University of Agricultural Sciences, Bengaluru, silkworms are low in cholesterol and food products made of them are good for people with heart ailments and diabetes.
 
 “In northeastern states, silkworm pupae are sold in weekly markets. They are considered to be protein rich, just like termites. We are also working on developing food products out of pupae in the form of powder or solvent for human consumption,“ said  , assistant professor of byproduct utilization, College of Sericulture.
 
 Chandrashekar said, “We have already developed poultry feed using pupae powder which has been received well. We are in talks with veterinarians to standardize the product with required nutrient additions. The next step will be to customize the pupae products for human needs like soup or in the form of nutrient drinks. This will be standardized in two to three months.“
 
 
 
 
 During his study trip to Thailand a few years ago, Chandrashekar discovered that byproducts of silkworm are extensively used as beauty products like body lotion, lipstick and facial cream. q“A protein called sericin, a by product of silk, has anti-ageing qualities and we are trying to develop beauty products out of it. In foreign countries, there is also a practice of dipping cocoons in hot water and using them to remove dark spots from the skin through scrubbing. It also gives a shiny skin, say researchers. We are developing soap made of cocoons, and within a month the product will be ready,“ he added.
 
 A senior faculty from the college said the campus itself has a sizeable number of students and the products developed are offered to them for use and feedback.“There have been positive responses for many such products in the past,“ she added.
 
