PUNE: It was a trip down memory lane for   Major Uday Sathe (retd), a   of  , when he attend the   at New Delhi’s Manekshaw centre on Saturday at the invitation of the   of Bangladesh and India.

 Speaking to TOI over phone, Major Sathe said, “It was a noble gesture on the part of Bangladesh as the country still recognises my contribution 46 years after the war.”
 
 Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, along with Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina honoured the families of the Indian soldiers who were martyred in the 1971 war.
 
 “A total of 1,668 Indian soldiers attained martyrdom in the war and their contributions can’t be ignored. This is how we can remember them again,” the war veteran said.
 
 Major Sathe is the fifth generation officer from the family. His great grandfather fought in the first war of independence in 1857.
 
 He was commissioned into service in 1965 as a gunner officer in the Regiment of Artillery of the Indian Army and was posted at Agartala during the 1971 war.
 
 "Before the war started, we often used to conduct reconnaissance deep into enemy territories occupied by Pakistan troops in Bangladesh (then East Pakistan). During reconnaissance we came to know about their preparation, which helped tremendously while making a detailed plan of the operation,” he recalled.
 
 The war started on December 3 at the stroke of midnight and the Indian troops entered Bangladesh.
 
 “We had carried enough ammunition with us. I was forward observation officer as a captain with an infantry company of 12 Kumaon regiment. On the night of December 5, my guns were loaded on mules. Despite the adverse weather condition, we crossed the Gomati,” Major Sathe said.
 
 "We had surprised the enemy at Chandila post where Pakistani company was holed in. The firing of mountain guns, mortars and medium guns neutralised the post. It turned out to be very effective in inflicting heavy causalities numbering between 50 and 60,” he added.
 
 Thereafter, the Indian troop struck Pakistani post named Daudkhandi right on the bank of Padma and Megha confluence. The post used to provide logistics support to Pakistani troops.
 
 It was a very significant task given to us to destroy this post, Major Sathe said. Explaining the crucial phase of the war, he said, “At dusk on December 6, Indian troops attacked Daudkhandi post. This time, we faced stiff resistance from Pakistani troops but we managed to complete the task. For this task and valour, I was awarded Vir Chakra by the Indian government on November 27, 1972,” Major Sathe said.
 
