
 Drone camera hovers over our City of Joy, showing the concrete structures of a middleclass suburb. Colours start fading and suddenly, the familiar upright buildings turn into crumbled structures like broken Lego toys. In a blink, our placid city is overpowered by the debris of what once used to be Homs — a war-trodden 2,000-year-old Syrian city that ceases to exist soon after the unrest broke out in 2011. The end credit starts scrolling, but not before sending a chill down the spine.
 
 Barring a few films, Bengali cinema’s idea of global connect has been song-and-dance sequences in foreign locales shot on a tight budget. But should we set tight budgets for the mind? Indranil Roychowdhury’s 
  scores its first point by breaking that glass ceiling. His short film, shot on a shoestring budget and released worldwide online, plays on themes of love and loss that transcend the borders of city and state and embrace humanity’s biggest global crisis today.
 
 The project, free from the pressures of a production house, is already making waves on the net. The most interesting takeaway has been the fact that thousands of viewers have listened to the director’s request — pay whatever you feel like if you enjoy the film — and money is trickling in, turning
  into a bold, new milestone for indie cinema in Bengal. 
 
 
 
 
 A young Hindu woman, Buri ( ), elopes to Homs with a non-Bengali Muslim bloke, Adil Haider (Ritwick Chakraborty). They have a daughter, Noorie, who, in the time of peace, used to sing and dance. And then comes the war.
 
 But why Syria? “It all started with television news. Watching news and documentaries on post-Arab Spring   became my obsessive compulsive disorder. I had to do something. The people of Syria are so much like us. They too are keen on adda, food and PNPC (malicious gossiping). They, like us, are obsessed with their religion and culture. They have a thing for ballads. Both the countries have a colonial past. Then suddenly, they started dying and before even realising, one entire nation got obliterated from the human civilisation. One of the profound differences between us is that ours is a democracy, which they never enjoyed. These series of documentaries, news bulletins, books and news reports moved me a great deal and I decided to make a film that could connect my city with theirs,” he tells CT.
 
 
  
 
 Indranil started his research in 2015. From the language the protagonists speak to the footage of Homs he sourced — he has watertight logical explanations for almost each and every second of the film. “I could have shown Aleppo but I chose Homs as it was one of the first places to be bombarded. Aleppo was decimated around nine months after — by the time all the migrant workers had left the country. My characters do not get any chance to escape,” Indranil explains. The director bought the footage from a Russian News agency, Ruptly. “That took a while. First, I had to locate them through a journalist friend based in Israel and then I had to pursuade them to sell it a bit cheaper than their usual cost. Mine’s an independent film, I told them,” he says.
 
 Indranil started writing 
  by the end of 2015. It took him four months to write and in another six months, the 30-minute film was ready, and all with his own finance. “I looked for producers, failed and then decided to make the film on my own anyway. Though I haven’t found a producer, all my friends came forward. None of us took any remuneration,” the director says.
 
 
 
 
 “The common perception is that there is no taker for slightly dark content. According to this bizarre logic, the audience is stupid and strangely, there is no one to counter this foolish argument. These days, big production houses decide the content of our films in Bengal,” he says.
 
 In this scenario, what would an independent filmmaker do? “I wanted to challenge that idea,” he says. The sole objective of the film, by his own admission, was not just to showcase it but also to make a viable model to recover its cost. “I could have just uploaded it on   and asked people to watch it. I waited to collect data to develop a model so that we can earn a bit of money too,” he says.
 
 It was a mammoth task. In India and Bangladesh, the film is still a free watch on YouTube. However, in the beginning, the director requests viewers to pay according to their wish if they like the film. The film ends with a QR code for Paytm. Abroad, the film is available on   — another video-sharing website — for a small fee.
 
 But is it working? Within a little more than a week of its release, 1.17 lakh people have watched the film on YouTube. “Around 10% of the production cost has been recovered after its release. And it’s all organic traction. We haven’t started any push sell so far. The response is overwhelming,” Indranil says, adding that Bengali independent film has miles to go. “Gone are the days when a theatrical release used to be the only platform to make people watch good films. However, there is a need of some kind of video-on-demand platform where directors like us can upload our films and interested viewers can pay some money to watch what we make. We will earn from the cost per subscription,” the director declares. Do we see a revolution in Bengali cinemascape? Only time will tell.
 
 
