CHANDIGARH:   in the city are exposed to all kinds of health hazards since they have not been vaccinated against   virus. There are more than 3,500 sanitation workers working without safety gear that end up falling ill, while many of them have severe ailments like acute respiratory disorders.

 The common ailments include  ,  ,  , chest infections and tuberculosis (TB). Workers said the municipal corporation (MC) had promised to provide them  , but nothing has happened so far for the past more than six months. 
 
 Harish, a sanitation worker in Sector 46, said “We work in such pathetic conditions that it is difficult to ascertain what will cause us harm. We too deserve a humanitarian treatment. Most of the workers do not have masks and gloves, while the ones distributed earlier have worn out with time.”
 
 Sanitation workers have not been getting even soaps and mustard oil needed to maintain cleanliness and prevent infections. Jai Kishan Dhule, president, Door-to-door Garbage Collection Society, said, “The workers have been spending money from their own pocket to buy soaps and mustard oil. Both these items are part of the mandatory kit for workers as they are prone to catch infections.”
 
 The municipal corporation (MC) also has a provision to provide jaggery to the sanitation staff, which has not been distributed on a regular basis. Officials claimed the kit will soon be provided to all workers. According to standards of safety, workers should be wearing uniforms, rubber gloves and masks while performing their duties.
 
 Contrary to norms, the workers are seen performing duty without safety gear. Ajay, a sanitation worker on contract in Sector 21, said, “During the course of our work, we learn to avoid the smell, but at times the pungent smell is just unbearable. People lock their garages and other closures, where garbage rots for days and months. At the end we are supposed to clean it with bare hands and without masks.” “I get more than 10 calls every day from sanitation workers, who tell me about their illness. Many have cough, high fever and respiratory problems as well. I remember a worker named Sonu in Sector 37, who died after a used syringe pricked his leg,” said Jai Kishan, who has been fightinh for issues concerning sanitation workers in the city.
 
 The sanitation staff is also exposed to biomedical waste, including clothes of patients suffering with chronic diseases. In the absence of any regular medical check up camps diseases among the workers is not identified. While remain unknown to infections in their bodies, until they take shape of chronic allergies and diseases.
 
 Municipal corporation mayor Asha Jaswal said, “We have already passed the agenda to get them vaccinated as a protection against hepatitis C diseases. Basic safety kit to workers and the monthly medical check up will also become a permanent feature. We are also in talks in government insurance companies to get the workers insured.” 
 
