Dumb charades is a game that most of us play during picnics and parties. It continues to be a game for both children and adults. Samrudhi Suresh, a civil engineer from city who is now based in Chicago, has added a new dimension to the game by developing an app specifically for the Indian market. The android-based app called ‘Sahi Pakde Hai’ (you have guessed it right) already has about 20,000 users and is gaining more downloads every day. Certain features of the app like ‘Sirf Hindi Me Bol’ and ‘Lights Camera Action’ have made the game more fascinating and attractive. The app has already received a 4.3 out of 5 rating and some very good reviews and feedback. Daughter of Anjali Junghare, associate professor in electrical engineering at VNIT, and Suresh Junghare, a structural engineer, Samrudhi finds it difficult to delink herself from her Indian roots. “I am taking the help of other experts who have their roots in Nagpur and are now in USA. One of the coders and the designer I engaged for the project are from the city. My friends here have encouraged me while developing the app. Since I am a civil engineer I knew nothing about the technology behind developing this app. But now I am fully conversant with it and plan to add more features into the game,” said Samrudhi. Samrudhi first studied the existing apps on dumb charades and realized that most of the words in the game have an English base. So she targeted the app specifically for Indians.  “I started working on the app in March last year and actually launched it in May 2016 as a free app. I got much better a response than I anticipated and so I am now planning to launch it commercially by this month end. I could get so many users through word of mouth as well as posting videos of the game on the social media like Facebook. But now marketing for commercial use is a challenge,” she told TOI. The app has six categories — cinema, hero-heroine, lights camera action, sirf hindi mein bol, adults only and Hollywood. Samrudhi is planning to add 14 more categories to it by the end of the month and relaunch the app. “I plan to develop games for kids and those who are kids at heart,” she said. “I am also planning to add many new features to the app like making it educative. I am also looking for brands that would like to affiliate with my app,” added Samrudhi.  The USP of the app is its video functionality where the phone camera captures the video of the player acting the words and adds more fun to the game as the videos can be used elsewhere for entertainment.