AHMEDABAD: With emphasis on reforms, affordable housing and infrastructure as well as poor, the   2017-18, presented on February 1, was hailed as a positive one for the economy and people during a panel discussion on Budget 2017 in Ahmedabad on Wednesday.

 Experts on the panel, comprising eminent tax guru  , economist and former director of  ,  , and economist and thinker  , dwelled not just on budget proposals but also on aspects such as the special context in which this year’s budget was presented, the merging of railway budget as well as bringing the presentation date forward.
 
  Bakul Dholakia said the budget should be reviewed and evaluated in the context of demonetization, turnaround of economy in the first half of the current fiscal, weak global economy and rate hikes in US in 2017. “The budget is path-breaking in two ways. Firstly, integration of railway budget gives FM an opportunity to look at transportation sector aviation, road, ports and rail, in entirety, which is a welcome thing. Secondly, abolition of plan and non-plan expenditure categorisation has allowed government to take a hard look at different schemes and programmes,” he said.
 Talking about the rationale behind advancing the budget presentation to February 1, economist and thinker Jay Narayan Vyas said,“This will ensure timely utilization of allocated funds to the government departments from April 1. Previously, the process used to get delayed. Now, there will be no excuse left for non-utilisation of funds by departments.”
 
 “According to me, this a truncated budget and not the full one, as it has been presented by remaining immune to GST, which is a major source of income for government,” he added.
 
 Vyas further stated that doubling of capital expenditure and higher allocation for infrastructure would spur demand.
 
  The experts also complimented the government for its focus on MSMEs. Welcoming budget proposals such as reduction in tax rate slab, corporate tax cut, 5% TDS on rent exceeding Rs 50,000 a month as well as electoral bonds, Mukesh Patel, eminent international tax expert, said the finance minister could have done more for salaried class with income of above Rs 5 lakh and taxpayers with Rs 50 lakh and above income, which he termed as the the two loyal ‘constituencies’ of FM.
 
 “The obsolete limits for medical reimbursement or children school fee deductions could have been revised by the finance minister. On the other hand, 10% surcharge is imposed on taxpayers with income of Rs 50 lakh. Senior citizens and super senior citizens have largely been neglected as far as tax reliefs are concerned,” he said.
 
 Lauding the emphasis laid on affordable housing and real estate by way of sops and incentives, as these sectors were adversely impacted by demonetization, Patel, however, pointed out a contradiction saying the budget has encouraged developers on one hand, but on the other those who purchase houses have been given a miss as there is no change in tax benefit to home buyers.
 
 According to Patel, partnership firms and ‘limited liability partnerships’ (LLPs) have been ignored while doling out 5% cut in corporate tax to MSMEs. Many MSMEs operate as LLPs and partnership firms, he said.
 
