DEHRADUN: The first day of the new year turned tragic for some families as eight people were killed and 18 injured in three separate   in just 24 hours.
 
  In the first incident, five people were killed, including two women and a child, and 10 injured on Sunday after the utility vehicle in which they were travelling fell into a 300ft deep gorge at Raolgaon in Champawat district. The vehicle was travelling from Lohaghat to Maghpeepal.
  
  Talking to TOI, superintendent of police (SP) Champawat, Ramchandra Rajguru said, “The accident took place around 3pm at Raolgaon, which is not far from India-Nepal border and falls under the jurisdiction of Pancheshwar Kotwali. According to initial reports, there were 16 people in the vehicle.”
  
  “Police teams have recovered five bodies from the accident spot while the ten injured, including four critically injured people, were shifted to   (CHC),” the SP said. He added that the district magistrate and he would be visiting the CHC to take stock of the situation.
  
  Two of the deceased have been identified as Govind and Govind Samant while the identity of three others is yet to be ascertained.
  
  In another road accident, two young men were killed and eight injured when their sports utility vehicle (SUV) fell into a ditch near Lambi Dehar in   near Mussoorie late on Saturday night.
  
  Ten men, including the pradhan of Mehmoodpur village in Sahaspur, were travelling to Mussoorie for New Year’s Day celebrations when the accident occurred, said B D Juyal, in charge of Mussoorie police station. The young men who lost their lives have been identified as Nadeep Ahmed and Zaheer, both in their thirties.
  
  A motorist also died after being hit by a tractor trolley on old Mussoorie road on Sunday afternoon. The bike rider, identified as Manoj Singh, sustained severe injuries in the accident and was taken to Doon hospital where he died during treatment. The victim was a resident of Kandi Talli in Kempty police station area in Tehri district.
  
  On Saturday, seven people were killed in three separate road accidents in Uttarkashi, Dehradun and Pithoragarh districts.
