LUCKNOW: Candidates seeking   will have to score   and above marks in  . State government rolled back its decision to admit directly to private colleges students who have qualified any entrance exam equivalent to  , post class XII board exams. But before the new rule could be put in place from academic session 2017-18, APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University recommended the government to allow class XII students with 60% marks to be eligible for direct entry. 

 Officials attributed shortage of students as reason for switching over to the old rule. In January, then SP government issued an order stating that candidates seeking admission to private   colleges will have to qualify an entrance test. The move was aimed at improving the quality of students. In private colleges, filling of seats through management quota was also capped at 15% from earlier 20%. It was decided that all admissions over this limit may only be granted to students who have appeared for entrance exams, including JEE Mains, UP State Entrance Examination or any other equivalent entrance test. 
 
 Officials said admitting fresh students is a step towards diluting quality of education. The academic session 2016-17 saw 37,000 engineering students studying in 600 private colleges. Of these, only 20% students were admitted through   and 80% entered without qualifying any entrance exam. Direct entry is equated to ‘selling’ of seats which remain vacant after SEE counselling. The counselling for UPSEE 2017 begins from May 25. The first round will end on June 14, while the second round will be from June 16 to June 24. The third round will begin from June 27 and continue till July 5 followed by fourth and fifth rounds starting from July 7 to July 15 and July 17 to July 21, respectively. 
 
 Sources said the government bowed to private colleges’ association who opposed the idea of qualifying entrance test for direct admissions. Students who take direct admission to private colleges are not up to the mark and are shown a rosy picture at the time of admissions but at the end of four years, they realise their worth when they get no jobs. 
 
 
