RAIPUR: The   (NGT) on Friday ordered the   (RMC) to set up a   at Sakri within the next four months.

 
 This move comes after a petition by   raised the issue of non-compliance by the   of the Municipal Solid Waste guidelines 2000 and 2016.
 
 The NGT has also asked the petitioner to suggest three names of reputed or retired government officials to the commissioner for a monitoring committee which will be formed to keep a watch over the waste disposal by the civic body and submit a report to the green panel every month for a year. The three member team would monitor the garbage management every fifteen days along with the additional commissioner.
 
 During the hearing, advocate Arushi Chouhan said that the garbage collection in the city was not done in a proper manner and a lot of the solid waste could be seen littering the streets and colonies.
 
 Singhvi’s petition also alleged that Kharun river is also being polluted due to the improper management of waste by the civic body. The dumping site Sarona is situated at the banks of the river and during the rainy season many times the storm water run-off leads to the impurities mixing with the river water. Since the river is a source of potable water in the city, the petitioner alleged, immediate action is required.
 
 In reply, the RMC said that the existing site at Sakri will be taken up shortly for setting up infrastructure for segregation for composting and waste generation. On this behalf, an MoU for utilisation of compost has been also been signed between the civic body and the National Fertiliser Corporation Limited.
 
 Initially there was a dispute regarding the distance as the site was at a distance of less than 10 kms from the city and, therefore, required clearances from DGCA.
 
 Under the direction of NGT the corporation was therefore directed to approach the Survey of India Authority and get the certification regarding the aerial distance of the site from the boundary of the airport. Finally, Survey of India has stated that the aerial distance from Raipur (Mana Airport) to the proposed site is 10.42 kms.
 
