BHUBANESWAR/ROURKELA/KENDRAPADA: Ten persons were killed and five injured in separate accidents at four places in the state on Monday. In Boudh district, three persons were killed and two critically injured after a crane engaged in the construction of Bagha irrigation project at Sagada in Boudh district overturned on Monday. Due to reported mechanical failure, the crane fell into the water. 

 The deceased have been identified as Bhima Muduli, Ramadas Muduli and   in Nabarangpur district. Two injured were rushed to Sonepur hospital. When their condition deteriorated, they were shifted to Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (VIMSAR), Burla, said Boudh collector Madhusudan Mishra. 
 
 After the accident, chief minister   directed the chief engineer (Mechanical) of Water Resources department to investigate the matter and submit report within three days. He also announced Rs 5 lakh compensation for the family of each deceased and Rs 50,000 for free treatment of the injured.
 
 In Sundargarh, two persons were killed when a truck ran over them near Barpali under Hemgiri police station in the district early on Monday. The deceased were identified as Santosh Mahato, 40, and Ajay Mahato, 35. Santosh was a truck driver. They were talking over phone beside the road by parking their truck, said Hemgiri police station inspector Sradhanjali Subudhi.
 
 In Kendrapada, an old man and his son were killed and three others injured after the four-wheeler in which they were travelling from their village Gayaspur to Cuttack dashed against the railing of a bridge at   on the National Highway no- 5(A) under Kendrapada Sadar police station.
 
 The deceased were identified as Akuli Sahoo, 60, and his son Pramod Sahoo, 30, of Gayasapur village. The car was at breakneck speed before it met with an accident, said Kendrapada Sadar police station IIC Nilakantha Patra.
 
 In Mayurbhanj district, three persons died after a two-wheeler collided head-on with a car near Amarda Road in Mayurbhanj on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. The deceased, Gopal Krushna Das, Mochiram Soren and Biswajit Giri, belong to Rasagobindpur village. They were returning home after watching drama, locals said. After the accident, locals blocked the road demanding compensation for the kin of the deceased. 
 
