JAIPUR:   (FDI) and an open market are usually seen as essentials by nations to attain greater economic progress.

 At the   ( ) on Saturday,   explained that if one examined the history of developed nations closely, one can see that they offered protection to nascent industries and regulated the economy while they were still developing.
 
 Illustrating the point, the renowned economist said his six-year-old son can be seen as a parasite, eating into his father’s earnings when he could have earned his keep and honed his skills as a doorkeeper or shoe-shiner.
 
 That, however, would not be the wisest course of action. His son can only reach his full potential if he’s allowed to study and pursue his dream of becoming a nuclear physicist or engineer.
 
 If he takes to work early, his scope for exploring his full potential would be curtailed.
 
 This, Chang explained, was how industries grew too. In 1958, Japan’s Toyota was a young manufacturer of cars. Its attempt to export cars to the US failed. Japan, however, continued to support the industry until the quality of cars reached world standards by the 1970s.
 
 Britain too protected its industry at times when it needed such protection – there was even a ban on import of superior quality textiles from India in the 18th century. In the early 18th century, Robert Walpole put in place aggressive protection and a system of high tariffs to discourage imports.
 
 In the case of Singapore, even today, 22% of the GDP comes from state-owned enterprise; 90% of the land is held by the government and 85% housing is done through the state.
 
 Chang said that democracy and accountability – not just in a formal sense but in a real way – would only aid governments in being more efficient. Even when South Korea had a military dictatorship, for instance, there were still mechanisms in place for planning and offering direction to industry. Such institutional mechanisms to keep a watch over government were necessary, he said, to aid proper allocation of resources, prevent corruption and aid development.
 
 
