CHANDIGARH: AAP on Friday rubbished the accusation by the Congress and SAD-BJP that AAP members had links with “gangsters and terrorists”. The party hit back by accusing the Congress of patronising dreaded gangsters, including key accused of Nabha jailbreak.

 AAP state convener Gurpreet Singh Waraich alleged, “It has become a habit for Punjab Congress president Capt Amarinder Singh to name AAP for any untoward incident in the state even though AAP has time and again made it clear that none of our leaders are involved in any kind of anti-social activity.” Waraich was accompanied by state secretary Gulshan Chhabra and co-coordinator of media cell Manjit Singh Sidhu.
 
 Waraich alleged, “Gurpreet Sekhon, the key accused in Nabha jailbreak case belongs to a Congress family and Vicky Gounder, an accomplice of Sekhon, was brought into the world of crime by a Congress leader.” He said that family members of these gangsters were on record blaming the Congress for misguiding their wards. He refuted charges that any AAP leader had given shelter to gangsters, saying that no office-bearer of AAP were involved in harboring any criminal.
 
 He also attacked BJP state president Vijay Sampla for “meaningless allegations” and said that gangsters and terrorists in Punjab were products of the Congress and SAD. “AAP will clear the mess,” he added.
 
 Waraich expressed his concern over crash in potato prices and demanded that NAFED shall procure the potato produce through MARKFED to protect the interests of farmers. He also demanded that the Centre provide subsidy on freight to potato growers so that they could transport their yield to other states and even export it.
 
 AAP convener said that the SIT formed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to probe the remaining cases of 1984 genocide of Sikhs had proved an eyewash and was only used to give clean chit to criminals and political leaders. He said that Modi had formed SIT to preempt formation of SIT by AAP government in Delhi. Out of 59 cases picked by it chargesheet was filed in four cases and 38 cases were closed.
 
 
 
 
 Punjab AAP chief Gurpreet Singh Waraich said that the party was “satisfied with the working of the Election Commission” and congratulated the poll panel for peaceful conduct of elections. He, however, added that AAP had raised discrepancies at administrative level in Punjab and EC has rectified the problems. AAP workers were alert and would point out any lapse in the administration and security of strong rooms, he added.
 
 
