   has been one of the most watched shows on TV and people have loved watching Kapil and his team's funny antics for long. But eversince the recent ugly fight between Kapil and   came into limelight, fans have been worried about the future of the show.
 
  March 25 was the first episode post their ugly spat and everyone - from the people sitting at home to the ones in the studio - were missing someone and that was Dr Mashoot Gulati and  , characters made famous by ace comedian Sunil Grover.
  
  Post the fight, there have been reports that Sunil along with Ali Asgar and Chandan Prabhakar, who play Naani and Chandu Chaiwala respectively will no longer be a part of the hit show.
  
  Here are a few things we missed from The Kapil Sharma Show on Saturday (March 25) when   wasn't a part of it this weekend.
  
  1. Dr Mashoor Gulati has become Nation's darling doctor for his funny and unique ways of treating his celebrity patients on the show. This time special guests - Taapsee Pannu and Manoj Bajpai missed out on their special Dr Mashoor Gulati style check up.
  
  2. Dr Mashoor Gulati's fun banter with Kapil Sharma - his one liners - 'aise kaun bithata hai bhai' when Kapil forces him to sit on the chair were also missed.
  
  3. Dr Mashoor Gulati's romantic moments with the female guests on the show. Who can forget his famous romantic moments with Aishwarya Rai Bachchan not once but twice. We missed it on yesterday's episode.
  
  4. Dr Gulati's fun moments with his favourite nurse Bumper played wonderfully by Kiku Sharda.
  
  
 
  
  5. Rinku Bhabhi 'jinke husband unhe piyaar nahi karte' - Sunil became famous thanks to his character of a cross dress female character Gutthi from Comedy Nights With Kapil. But he made us forget Gutthi with the entry of Rinku bhabhi in our lives. Rinku bhabhi's love and hate relationship with her nanad (sister-in-law) Santosh has everyone laughing.
  
  6. Piddu Singh - Sunil may not have been successful when he went solo after his earlier fight with Kapil but the actor has a perfect comic touch which everyone loves. His tribute to Navjot Singh Sidhu is the berst copy anyone has done of the former cricketer.
  
  But there is good news for all Dr Gulati fans, he along with Bumper are going to entertain fans in Delhi on April 1.
  
  
 
  
  
 
