

 n While the central and state governments are taking steps to generate and supply power to consumers across the country, EESL bridges the demand-supply gap by implementing various   measures. Its main agenda is to see that the output is delivered with minimum energy use. EESL was thus established by the Union ministry of power as a venture of NTPC, PFC, REC and Power Grid six years back. The company works closely with the   (BEE) and other stakeholders including the   from Andhra Pradesh. The company is leading the market-related activities of the National Mission for Enhanced Energy Efficiency, which is one of the eight national missions under the Prime Minister’s National Action Plan on Climate Change.
 
 
 
 
 n The focus on energy conservation and implementation like use of LED bulbs, solar agriculture pump sets, star-rated fans, heaters and other electrical appliances are increasing now. The company is collaborating with the state governments to raise awareness on the importance of energy conservation. N Chandrababu Naidu, chief minister of Andhra Pradesh, was most helpful in our job. A separate State Energy Conservation Mission was launched in the state.
 
 
 
 
 n We are spreading the message of energy conservation to the people through the media, pilot projects and interactions. We are also conducting workshops with stakeholders like Vizag-based Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited (APEPDCL) on use of LED domestic bulb and star-rated fans. We organise programmes like national competitions for the discoms and states and give out national energy conservation awards. 
 
 
 
 
 n Energy efficient methods are cheap. It provides service while reducing the consumption of energy. Renewable energy requires money to build infrastructure. However, both play a crucial role in energy conservation. The thrust of the government is to encourage use of renewable energy and energy efficient methods along with enhancing supply of energy.
 
 
 
 
 n We partner private and public sector entities for implementation of energy efficient projects not only to enhance their capacity.
 
 
 
 n Last year we crossed Rs 715 crore and earned a profit of Rs 48 crore. This year, we are targeting a turnover of Rs 2,000 crore and we have already achieved Rs 1,000 crore. We are targeting at least Rs 100 crore profit this year. We will install 15 crore LED bulbs in the country this year as well.
 
 
 
 
 n We are coming up with star-rated air conditioners. 
 
 
 
 
 n Vizag is the first city in the county where EESL set up the LED street lighting project. We got good results from the project and the company and GVMC earned recognition from it. Many other cities in the country came to Visakhapatnam to study the LED project. 
 
