NEW DELHI:   on Saturday promised the voters that AAP would sort out the civic problems of Delhi within a year and abolish house tax if it wins the municipal elections.

 “Will taxes get exempted if we shout ‘Modi, Modi’? If yes, I will also chant ‘Modi, Modi’,” he said during his civic poll campaign in Ghonda and Gandhi Nagar assembly constituencies in east Delhi. 
 
 Attacking BJP and Congress, he warned the people that if either of the parties is voted to power, benefits like 20,000 litres of free water and subsidy in power bills initiated by his government will be rolled back.
 
 He also linked the alleged corruption in the municipal bodies to the civic mess that Delhi has been witnessing. “Whenever people demanded services and basic amenities, both Congress and BJP governments used to say that MCD did not have funds. We made health and education free, reduced price of electricity and are giving 20,000 litres of water free every month. Where did we get the money from? It was possible because we have checked corruption. We have saved Rs 350 crore from the construction of five flyovers in the past two years.” Kejriwal said. 
 
 He alleged that the civic bodies had failed to utilise the money given to them by the Delhi government. “Delhi is the capital of the country, but it has been turned into a waste bin. It is the duty of the corporations to keep it clean. My government gave them Rs 4,000 crore, but they didn’t do anything.”
 
 Meanwhile, at the Ghonda rally, there was a brief interruption when the stage caved in a little when Kejriwal was being greeted by the local leaders. Nobody suffered any injury though. He claimed that the amount of work done by his government surpassed all the work done in the capital by the previous Congress and BJP governments.
 
 “In the past two years, we have supplied piped water to 309 colonies, which the previous governments could not do in 65 years. By December, each unauthorised colony will get piped water. Earlier, no one wanted to send their children to government schools. We have changed the state of government schools completely and children are getting quality education now. We created 8,000 classrooms which is equal to 200 new schools. BJP governments in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have not been able to set up 200 schools in 15 years,” claimed Kejriwal. 
 
 He said that if his party is voted to power, the civic staff will be paid their salaries by “7th of each month without fail”.
 
