NEW DELHI: The affluent colonies of Chittaranjan Park and Greater Kailash sit incongruently with their organised appearance against their neighbour Chirag Dilli’s overflowing dumps, malodorous, uncovered sewers and unplanned houses opening on to shrunken lanes. But beyond economic demarcations, people in these three wards — the existing fourth ward of Shahpur Jat was subsumed into the three after delimitation — are equally unhappy.

 Of these South Delhi Municipal Corporation wards falling in the Greater Kailash assembly constituency, Greater Kailash and Chittaranjan Park are unsuccessfully battling the takeover of pavements by people and vehicles, while Chirag Delhi continues to struggle for basic civic amenities like sanitation, drinking water and healthcare.
 
 The problem of encroachment in CR Park and GK stems ironically from the economic status of the residents. As Gautam Banerjee, shop owner in CR Park Market 2, explained, “Around 40 years ago, with mostly single-floor bungalows, the roads were free of encroachment. The growth in the number of multi-storeyed bungalows, residents and cars has led to encroachments.” Another aspect of this status-driven problem is expressed by Rakesh Saxena, who runs an eatery in GK. Pointing to the construction waste dumped on the footpath near a big house, Saxena said, “The VIP residents consider themselves immune to action by the corporation and merrily violate all rules.” 
 
 Their clout hasn’t got the residents good colony roads though. “Pits as deep as eight inches are common on every lane here,” pointed out Chetan Sharma, chairman of GK2 Complex RWAs. His counterpart in GK1 added that in a decade now, no internal road had been relaid. Virender Kasana, the sitting Congress councillor, had this pre-election reassurance: “The fight between BJP and AAP delayed the sanction of funds. But money has now been released, and work will start after the polls.”
 
 Parks, unlike roads, have undergone a big change, said Sachin Dutt. Shahid Bhagat Singh Park behind Dutt’s second-floor flat in Kalkaji DDA Flats, like the 250 others in CR Park, now has a rain shelter. Many have been fitted out as open gyms too.
 
  However, some voters, like Rajiv Kakaria of GK, observed, “Green waste management in parks and rainwater harvesting are not on the priority list of the councillor.”
 
 A kilometre from CR Park, waste management worries thousands of people. 
 
 “The water supplied carries a whiff of sewage with it,” complained Mohan Kumar of Harijan Mohalla in Chirag Dilli. And despite many residents saying that incumbent councillor Sunita Gulia of BJP has done a lot since 2012, the plaint of Manish Sharma, member of Chirag Dilli RWA, was, “Whether you approach our area from the north or south, overflowing dhalaos will greet you.”
 
 
