MUMBAI: Not just “sheer brutality“ of the crime, the “apathy“ shown by a duo “towards precious life of young girls“ requires them to be sentenced to death, reasoned the Thane sessions judge as she held a 2012 case of gangrape and murder to be in the rarest of rare category.

 The judge observed how the two men--Rahimuddin Shaikh (24) and   (18) --on May 9, 2012, took advantage of the innocent girls and took them from Belapur station on the pretext of providing them a job. They, however, took the girls to an isolated spot where they raped them and killed one. The deceased's injuries indicate her head was smashed on the floor or on a hard blunt object. Their “depraved and debased conduct“, said the judge, “disclosed that they breached the trust of the victims“. “It clearly indicates this case falls within the category of rarest of rare,“ said Judge  . “Crimes against women and children are on the rise. Would society not expect that the accused who committed rape and murder ...in an extremely brutal, barbaric, gruesome manner and caused her de ath for no fault of hers, to be hanged?“ The death sentence granted by the trial judge needs to be confirmed by the Bombay high court to become enforceable. The judge also fined both Rs 15,000 each--Rs 5,000 for each of the three offences they were held guilty of, murder, gangrape and voluntary injuring a person with a dangerous weapon. The court ordered that Rs 15,000 each is to be paid as compensation to the family of the murdered girl and to the rape survivor. Legal experts on Saturday said that the fine as compensation was “rather meagre“. The law doesn't specify the fine amount in rape and murder cases.
 
 The trial court has directed the   to decide in two months on the compensation amount for the rape survivor.Experts say that while calculating the amount, the state's plan to increase its   scheme compensation to Rs 10 lakh from Rs 2 lakh, must be considered. The state recently informed the Bombay high court which is hearing a PIL on the need for proper compensation and rehabilitation of rape survivors. The HC had rapped the state and asked it to “be progressive“ like Goa which offers Rs 10 lakh as compensation.
 
