HYDERABAD: With a colliery trade union election assuming big political overtones, chief minister   is leaving no stone unturned to wrestle a victory in Singareni. With a week left for polls,   declared a Dasara bonanza for 52,000-odd coal mine staff. On Friday , he announced that his government will protect dependant jobs and provide jobs to kin of employees on 'compassionate' grounds. The issue assumed importance in the run-up to elections after courts struck down the state proposal to grant jobs to kin of staff who take retirement on medical grounds. Requesting   staff to vote for  , a trade union affiliated to the ruling  , the CM promised several welfare measures.

 Allaying fears of staff, the TRS president also announced a big financial package to employees, wanting to retire on medical grounds and those who don't want a job for dependants. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, in his bid to sweep the Singareni union elections, announced a 'general amnesty' for those facing allegations of impersonation. There are about14,000 to19,000 employees in Singareni who are facing inquiry for 'Alia' or 'Pyperu' employment. This decision, according to Singareni workers, will greatly influence voters in favour of TRS-affiliated union as many employees are living in fear due to the ongoing inquiry.
 
 "They will be given one-time amnesty during which they can provide names and Aadhaarcard to change their credentials in employment register. The company will not ask questions or initiate action," announced the chief minister.
 
 For those who want to retire on medical grounds and those who don't want a job for dependants, Singareni company will give Rs 25 lakh one-time benefit, which was earlier Rs 12 lakh. Alternatively, they can choose a monthly salary of Rs 25,000, till death as against Rs 12,500 presently, CM said.
 
 "I am giving assurance for every dependant job. The medical board will be revamped to clear medical invalidation cases swiftly. More diseases will be included in the beneficiary list for every worker as I personally know plight of workers," said the chief minister.
 
 In another relief, CM exten ded medical benefits, which are currently limited to employee and his children, to parents as well. He also announced Rs 6 lakh loan without interest burden to every employee for a house.
 
 KCR announced complete waiver of professional tax to all employees by which they can together save about Rs 175 crore per annum. The CM also promised to waive income tax, but as the subject is under control of the Centre, he assured them the issue will be followed up by TRS MPs. He announced new underground mines and a 2,000MW power plant for Singareni company to strengthen its fiscal health. "There has been no recruitment since 1989. After TBGKS won the election, we could regularize 7000 staff and recruit another 650 people. About 500 dismissed staff were also taken back into service," he said. The CM then directed the Singareni management to pay the annual profit share, which used to be paid in October along with festival advance.
 
