MUMBAI: Survivors of fire burns should be included in the Rights of Persons with Disability Bill so that they get reservation in government jobs and educational institutions. This was one of recommendations made by a state-level roundtable attended by government and police officials as well as doctors, lawyers and social workers on Saturday.

 The meeting was organised by the   along with NGOs--city-based Centre for Enquiry into Health and Allied Themes (Cehat) and Chennai-based International Foundation for Crime Prevention & Victim Care ( ) - on February 25.
 ''Being a women burn survivor is a large disability given the society we live in,'' said PCVC's Rashmi Singh. ''Owing to scars and physical disfigurement, survivors face stigma and discrimination in society. This stigma prevents them from participating in society,'' she said. Experts at the Saturday meeting said that these were reasons enough to include burns survivors under the category of physical disability in the Rights of Persons with Disability Bill (2016). It was felt that the compensation provided to acid survivors must be extended to burn survivors as well.
 
 The roundtable meet also felt the need to develop a medico legal protocol that could be tested at the state level before being adopted nationally. "While discussing kerosene burns among women, a common observation was the lack of comprehensive response at all stages such as medical legal, therapeutic, rehabilitative and criminal justice system,'' said Sangeeta Rege of Cehat in a press release. "Despite growing evidence that burns could be a consequence of violence against women, medical literature fails to make such associations. The response is further marred by the reluctance from health professional, the police and the lack of protocols for responding to these women,'' she added.
 
 The PCVC has developed a model in Chennai that provides quick response and long-term psychosocial support for women burns survivors. The meeting was attended by doctors, lawyers, representatives from the civil society organisations, women's organisations, among others. A recent study conducted across Maharashtra,  , Delhi and Telangana by various NGOs showed:
 
 
