SHIMLA: Even when the Rs 100 and Rs 50 notes have not been demonetised in the country, Shimla residents were taken by surprise on Monday when their Rs 100 notes were not accepted in medical stores.

 People were troubled on Monday when their notes were not accepted, similar to the time when Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes were demonetised. “My total bill was of Rs 2,400 but the government medical store near   (DDU) returned me three Rs 100 notes asking me to give them other notes which are not silver-lined. I requested them to take the notes, else I would not be able to buy my medicine as I did not have any other notes. But, they refused stating that the State Cooperative Bank is not accepting the silver-lined Rs 100 notes from us, so even we cannot take such notes from you,” said Kanta Devi, a costumer.
 
 Shimla resident   told TOI that when he was buying some things from a shop at Mall Road, Shimla, the shopowners asked him to exclude the silver-lined Rs 100 notes and the same kind of situation he went through in DDU on Monday. “I was wondering that when the Prime Minister has not given any directions on ban on Rs 100 notes, then why my notes are not being accepted in Shimla,” he added.
 
 DDU medical store managers told TOI that they deposit their money in State Cooperative Bank who had instructed them on Monday not to deposit any silver-lined Rs 100 notes with the bank. “That is why we are not accepting these notes from our customers now,” they added.
 
 State Cooperative Bank bus-stand branch manager   said, “As Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has already banned circulation of silver-lined Rs 100 notes which came before 2005, now even we are not providing such notes further to anybody as there can be problem in further segregation or acceptance of these notes. But currently, as we have not received guidelines for not accepting these notes, we have not given any directions to any of our employees, including DDU medical stores, to not accept these notes. We are still accepting such notes from everyone.”
 
 Himachal Pradesh State Cooperative Bank deputy general manager   said the RBI guidelines are same to all banks of India and right now all kinds of Rs 100 notes are being accepted. “If any of our employees have refused to accept any Rs 100 notes, then we will look into the matter. But, there must be some misunderstanding. People can still use silver-lined Rs 100 notes without any doubt,” he added.
 
