MUMBAI: After engineering a stunning heist against Kolkata Knight Riders, made possible by two youngsters in Nitish Rana and Hardik Pandya,   (2 pts from 2 games) will have their task cut out against table-toppers and defending champions Sunrisers Hyderabad (unbeaten in 2 games) when they host the David Warner-led outfit at the Wankhede here on Wednesday.

 MI have so far not got out of second gear. Their two biggest match-winners, skipper Rohit Sharma and big-hitting West Indian, Kieron Pollard, who has had more to say about what the commentators are speaking about him, rather than letting his bat talk, have appeared rusty.
 
 Both though enjoy playing against Hyderabad and have pulverised them in the past and will love to come back into form on a true home surface and a ground small enough to hit maximums.
 
 Firstly though, MI will have to think hard about what is their best team combination. If Rohit Sharma is India's best limited overs opener, should he not get back to that role for his franchise too? Surely, he and Jos Buttler firing together at the top of the order makes for a more terrifying prospect for the opponents than Parthiv Patel and Buttler walking out at the start of the innings. There is also a school of thought that Hardik Pandya's sensational hitting form, which has bailed MI out on the last two occasions, should not be wasted at No.7. Perhaps a swap with brother Krunal, who has had two unproductive stints in the top six, is the need of the hour against quality bowlers.
 
 A change in the bowling line-up too could help the hosts. Mitchell Johnson's swing and pace can be a good ally to Lasith Malinga's sling. The other Mitchell, McClenaghan, has not hit his straps yet and if Johnson and Malinga fire together like they did during MI's victorious run in 2013,  's batting could be tested.
 
 That could happen though only if their bowlers misfire. Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Moises Henriques and Afghanistan's talented leg-spinner Rashid Khan and Ben Cutting have so far kept the opposition on a leash. Last season too, it was the bowling line-up that consistently delivered to defend smallish totals or restrict opponents to a manageable score and the bowlers were marshalled wonderfully by Warner, who always looks to take wickets. Rashid Khan has been a revelation and for an 18-year-old playing on a stage as big as the  , in front of packed crowds, he has shown remarkable poise and control while practising a difficult art. Both his games though have been played on a large outfield in Uppal. It will be interesting to see how he fares on a smallish ground, with the crowd cheering for the home batsmen to tonk him for sixes.
 
 Sunrisers will have selection headaches if Mustafizur Rahman is fit and joins the squad as was widely reported before they faced Gujarat Lions on Sunday. Cutting may miss out if and when that happens. Rohit would have seen his opposite number struggle against Ashwin. Expect him to attack Warner early with Harbhajan. Both have had their share of verbals in international colours and as captains of high profile franchises, they could get really chatty again if things get close on Wednesday evening.
 
 Click here for 
 
