GURGAON: There's nothing better than coming out of the cold into a frozen wonderland, and iSKATE, India's only all-season ice rink - 450 square feet (approx.) of natural ice - welcomed 2017 with an all-action tie for the iSKATE 'Blades of Glory' New Year Cup. 

 The trophy was the culmination of a six-day national coaching camp, preparation for the 13th National Ice Skating Championship, to be held in Shimla ( ) from January 4 to 6.
 
  The camp was organised by the   (ISAI), whose ambition - as set forth in its 'Mission Olympics' statement - it is to send an Indian skating team to the next Winter Olympics, to be held in Pyeongchang ( ) in 2018. It's an ambition that dovetails neatly with that of iSKATE. The promoters behind the five-year-old venue endeavour to give ice skating a bigger profile in the country. 
 
 Over four days, and in four age categories (under-10, 10-13 years, 13-17 years, and 17 years and above), boys and girls got an opportunity to practice and master their skills on ice, and to show off their spins and jumps, and their flexibility and postures, in figure (artistic) and speed skating, and also in pair and solo dance. Above all, it was about helping them find a comfort level on ice.
 
 Aksh Payal and Lavanya Wali (under-10), Manit Singh and   (10 to 13 years), and Priyam Tated and Riya Saboo (13 to 15 years), took home the honours on Sunday. 
 
 The camp was conducted under the guidance of international skater   and world champ Anup Kumar Yama, the latter a gold medalist at the 2013 World Artistic Roller Skating Championship, and winner of two bronze medals - in pairs and solo free skating - at the 2010 Asian Games. The camp's 'mentor' was Jagraj Singh Sahney, a legend on roller skates.
 
 R K Gupta, president of ISAI, is clearly unhappy with the lack of support from the Centre. "We are getting a very tired response from the government to promote ice skating in India. This might be the reason why the rink in Dehradun has become barren like a white elephant since 2008, when the 2nd South Asian Championship was held there," lamented Gupta.
 
 "The ISAI team is working for the betterment of ice skating in India, and looking for more athletes to join the abode of ice," he added, hopefully. 
 
 
