KOLKATA: The   (STF) of Kolkata Police on Thursday arrested a junior works manager (JWM) of Rifle Factory   (RFI) for allegedly smuggling out parts of 7.62 mm SLRs and 5.56 mm   out of the factory and selling them to illegal arms manufacturers, possibly from Bihar. The Insas rifles are the mainstay of India’s security forces while the older SLRs continue to remain as back-ups.

 Sambhu Bhattacharjee (49), a resident of Keshtopur, was arrested from the Ultadanga area. He was arrested along with Deepak Shaw, an arms dealer from Noapara area in Dum Dum. 
 
 According to the STF, 20 empty SLR magazines and several parts of Insas rifles like firing pins, triggers, ha- mmers, hammer springs, and lever changers. Bhattacharjee was employed in Central Works Depot of the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB)-controlled RFI that deals with stores, an official in the factory said. The arrest may have some bearing with the arrest of one Lalu, a contractual labour from the pistol section of OFB, from a red light area in north Kolkata on Monday. Lalu was then carrying a 9 mm pistol assembled with unfinished (no final colouring) parts from RFI. This may have led the police to Bhattacharjee who used to be in charge of the labour board till a few years back before receiving time-bound promotions.
 
 "We will help the police in investigations and check whether stocks are missing from the stores," an RFI official said.
 
 A senior officer at Lalbazar said, Bhattacharjee, who had ready access inside RFI, used to procure parts of INSAS and SLR illegally from the factory and used to sell the same to Shaw. “Shaw used to transport the parts to Jharkhand and Bihar for assembling of the same. Once assembled, the guns were sold to criminal gangs operating in Bihar and Jharkhand area,” said the officer.
 
 The duo were booked under Indian Penal Code sections 381 (theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant), 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 25 (1B)(a) of Arms Act (possession of illegal firearm). If found guilty, the two can face a maximum punishment of life imprisonment.
 
