HYDERABAD: To sober down tipplers who wriggle out of law, Hyderabad   has come up with a 'dynamic mantra' to beat drunk drivers in their own game.
With tipplers frequently managing to slip through alternate routes and avoiding static   on arterial roads, police have now constituted a 'dynamic team' on an experimental basis.
 
 The team is on the move on 'alternate routes' in the vicinity of key check points conducted by static teams. The experiment proved to be a success as the team was able to book 22 cases on Friday and another 30 on Saturday in   and Banjara Hills as against 18 cases and 20 cases by nearest static team.
 
 At least 145 motorists were booked for drink driving by four static teams on Friday and Saturday. It is probably the first time that a dynamic team was constituted to keep vigil on escape routes. One woman was also booked on the alternate route, a traffic cop said.
 
 The decision to constitute a dynamic team was taken after police received information that tipplers were sharing information on WhatsApp groups about static drink-driving check points and ways to skirt the cops.
 
 Speaking to TOI, deputy commissioner of police (traffic)   confirmed that the concept of the dynamic team has proved to be a success and more such teams would be constituted.
 
 “The impact was good. A dynamic team has a surprise element. It delivered a message to motorists that the drive against drunk driving was being conducted at multiple points, triggering a scare among guzzlers. The dynamic teams have increased the certainty of drunk drivers being caught even if they take alternate routes,“ he said.
 
 Road safety activists too appreciated the concept of dynamic teams. They said checks on main roads have become monotonous. If one person witnesses checks, he or she can sens alert friends and colleagues. And they in turn share it on social media, which has a larger reach.
 
 Malcolm Wolfe, president of Roafkraft, an NGO, said traffic police should keep changing strategies as violators tend to find out ways and means to escape, earlier than expected.Most importantly , the dynamic teams should be trained to stop a speeding vehicle and pull the driver safely to the side of the road, he said.
 
 Road safety experts said the traffic police should also conduct drink driving checks during the day . Though the traffic cops had launched an intensified drive against people driving vehicles during the day under the influence of alcohol, it was slowed down. Why wait for another “ramya type“ unfortunate incident to occur. Daytime intensified checks should be regular affair. The cops should plan the day-time checks strategically so that the flow of vehicle traffic is not affected. As it is the road space is just insufficient for the vehicles in the city, experts said.
 
