NAGPUR: After Amravati district collector Kiran Gitte’s order to open 10km road between Kanjoili and Barukheda through   (MTR), villagers have been mounting pressure on officials to throw open the road.

 Local forest officials said as per the orders, the gate from Kanjoli was opened for a few hours. The gate was again closed On January 2.
 
 According to tiger reserve officials, as the gate was closed, many vehicles gathered near the spot and villagers from Kanjoli, Sinban, Motikheda, Raniban and Golai gathered and tried to force open the gates.
 
 Akot deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) PC Lakra said the gates have been closed from January 2 till further orders. “The   field director will take a call. The gates will not be opened till then,” he said.
 
 According to former member of   (NBWL) Kishor Rithe, a final notification of the area has been issued under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, after settlements right of the people. “The final enquiry is conducted by the SDO and report is submitted to the collector. Now that all the rights have been settled and the area has been declared as a critical tiger habitat (CTH), the collector has no powers to declare the area open for villagers,” Rithe said.
 
 Rithe said if at all the collector wants to open the road, he will have to take permission from the chief wildlife warden, who only has powers to take a decision under the Act.
 
 He said all the villages inside were relocated by spending crores of rupees in the last six years. “It is no more a revenue land but a reserve forest. Beautiful meadows have come up in the area and tigers have regained their territory. It would be a big blunder to open the area for traffic as the fire season has started,” the wildlife expert added.
 
 The Amravati collector took a decision under pressure from Achalpur MLA Bacchu Kadu. However, this was done despite an alternative route being available to the people.
 
 Amol Sawant, a naturalist from Akola, said the villagers’ demand to open Kanjoli-Barukheda road through tiger reserve has nothing to do with the closure of Akot-Wan-Dhulghat-Khandwa railway line. “As it is, not many villagers use railway as mode of transport. They mostly go to Dharni for their needs. The disturbance caused by opening the road through reserve will spell doom for Melghat tigers,” Sawant said.
 
 
