PUNE:  , a fruit seller on  , used to proudly display a board reading “PayTM wallet accepted here” just after demonetisation last year. But he has now tucked it away. “I have stopped accepting payments via digital wallets as people now want to pay in cash,” he says.

 Bhikulal Chandak, a vegetable seller in Undri, too had joined the e-wallet bandwagon following the government’s announcement of scrapping of high value notes three months ago but has abandoned it for good. “What is the use when the cash crunch has gone?” he asks.
 
 Not just shopkeepers, even autorickshaw drivers have started refusing payments through digital apps. “I have uninstalled the mobile wallet application now as all my customers prefer to pay in cash. Also, there is this whole problem of transferring money from mobile wallets to bank accounts. Besides, whenever I take my auto for repairs, the garagewallah refuses to accept anything but cash,” Vitthal Kokil, an autorickshaw driver, says.
 
 Almost three months after demonetisation, with cash back in banks and ATMs and the   (RBI) raising the cash withdrawal limit from Rs24,000 to Rs50,000 per week and promising to lift the cap completely from March 13, shopkeepers are only happy to go back to “good old cash”.
 
 Also, many merchant establishments forced to install PoS machines following the government’s demonetisation drive have now gone back to transacting in cash. “Since demonetisation kicked in, we stopped levying any transaction charges on card payments since we didn’t want to inconvenience customers. However, with enough cash available in the system now, we have started levying surcharges since banks charge us between 0.25% and 0.5% for accepting debit card payments,” Mahesh Agarkar, who runs a home furnishings shop in Undri, said.
 
 Financial technology experts feel the switch to cash was but a natural reaction on the part of those not willing to move to the digital platform on their own volition. “For a lot of customers and retailers, the movement to digital was enforced by the demonetisation move. As such, the first experience in paying digitally for a considerable set of people turned out to be a less than seamless one with multiple transaction failures caused by connectivity, bandwidth and server-related issues. They moved back to cash as soon its supply improved,” Vivek Belgavi, financial technology leader, PricewaterhouseCoopers, India, said.
 
 Not surprisingly, digital payments dipped by 10.2% in volume and 7% in value in January 2017 against December 2016, according to the data released by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).
 
 Wallet companies, too, concede a dent in their “exponential” growth. “We saw a period of aggressive growth when the cashless madness started. Right now, the ‘exponential’ part is gone, but the numbers have been consistent. Fortunately, we haven’t witnessed a steep drop,” Sony Joy, co-founder and CEO, Chillr app, said.
 
 PayTM, the largest mobile wallet company in India, declined to comment when contacted.
 
 According to a State Bank of India research report in December, card machines and mobile wallets witnessed a decline in average transaction values between October and December. While the average value per transaction in prepaid instruments, including mobile wallets, was Rs475 in October, it fell to Rs224 in November, before rising to Rs238 in December, the report said.
 
 According to the RBI report released in February, the volume of transactions in prepaid instruments fell from Rs87.8 million in December 2016 to Rs87.3 million in January 2017.
 
 Belgavi said some of the reasons for this decline could be because of lack of education and awareness of the security aspects of digital payments. “Also, deficiency in grievance redress facilities for customers and merchants may have prompted many to move away from digital payments,” he added.
 
 Moreover, with limits on mobile wallets in respect of usage and transfer, vendors got frustrated as their money got locked up, said Neha Punater, partner- managing consulting, ITA Tech Enablement, KPMG, India. “This money is useless as vendors cannot use it to make payments to dealers who largely demand cash or cheque,” she added.
 
 Wallet companies said a revised slab by the government supporting average business of retailers could help them in serving users optimally. “This shall help the government and players like us in realizing our dream of a cashless India,” Bipin Preet Singh, founder & CEO at MobiKwik, said.
 
 The high cost of PoS terminals (around Rs8,000 to Rs10,000) also acted as a disincentive for retailers to pass on any benefits to customers. Though the real reason, Punater said, why some merchants declined to accept card payments once cash became available was to evade taxes. She, however, added that the cost of digital payments would come down in future with the government deciding to remove import duty on PoS terminals.
 
 Though there are fears the volume of digital payments could slip further with the RBI aiming to remove all withdrawal limits by mid-March, Dheeraj Aneja, director, financial services advisory services, payments practice, Ernst & Young, India, said with cash back in circulation, a more sustainable growth in digital transactions at merchant-end should be expected. “Innovations such as the Unified Payments Interface, BHIM app and Aadhaar-based payments will only help in accelerating the adoption of digital payments,” he said.
 
