PATNA: There is huge scarcity of police vehicles in Patna posing problems for the cops in patrolling and maintaining law and order in the city as well as in the district.

 Most police stations are forced to use rickety vehicles which are somehow being used for patrolling. The Rs12 lakh theft from the ATM at Harnichak under Beur police station in Patna on Saturday is the latest case which exposed the   patrolling.
 
 The Patna police have around 133 patrolling vehicles, including 89 jeeps, 29 gypsies, a Tata 407, 20 SUVs, a bulletproof gypsy and one mine protected vehicle (MPV). They have some quick mobile bikes as well for patrolling in the city and on its outskirts.
 
 Bikram, Punpun, Pipra, Gaurichak, Dhanarua, Rania Talab police stations have one private vehicle each while Paliganj and Dulhin Bazaar have two each and Masaurhi has three private vehicles officially hired on rent under the central government’s SRE (security related expenditure) scheme, which is applicable only for the Maoist-hit areas. Around Rs15,000 to Rs20,000 monthly rent is paid to the owners of these vehicles.
 
 Out of the 76 police stations in Patna, many are managing with vehicles on rent. Sources said at least 69 additional vehicles are required by Patna police for proper patrolling.
 
 Almost all the SHOs posted at different police stations in the district admitted that most vehicles used by them are in bad shape and, at times, they have to push the vehicle to start the engine. 
 
 “It will not be wrong if we say we are chasing criminals of 21st century on the vehicles made in 19th century,” said one SHO. 
 
 Another SHO said sometimes they need to rush to the spot on two-wheelers if patrolling vehicle is far from the police station or the place of crime.
 
 Sources said Akilpur police station got its maiden patrolling vehicle on March 1 only after the issue was recently raised in the state assembly. Belchi police station got two SUVs from the police lines after Rs60 lakh was looted outside a bank on March 6.
 
 Similarly, Chowk police station has only one SUV and a 15-year-old jeep, which most of the time remains out of order. However, the state government has invested around Rs4.5 crore to construct a modern building of the police station.
 
 Gandhi Maidan, Kotwali and SK Puri are the only police stations having five patrolling vehicles each in running condition. Agamkuan and Kadamkuan police stations have four vehicles each. The police stations on the city outskirts suffer the most with only one patrolling vehicle each.
 
 When asked, SSP (in-charge) cum City SP (Central) Chandan Kushwaha said purchasing of vehicles and other equipment are policy matters of the department. “Patna police will also get vehicles as per the requirement when the department purchases them,” he said.
 
 
