PATNA: Four days after two sisters were allegedly molested and roughed up by two mobike-borne youths at city’s Boring Road crossing on Thursday evening, police on Tuesday arrested the two youths as well as their friend whose bike they were riding.
 
  The alleged molesters were identified as Ashish Kumar (19) and Snigdh Kashyap (18). Prashant Kumar (18) was also arrested and his bike, used in the crime, recovered from his   residence.
  
  Police said Snigdh was driving the bike while Ashish was riding the pillion. “It was Ashish who allegedly passed lewd comments, molested the 20-year-old and dragged her 16-year-old sister by her hair when she resisted,” a police officer said, adding the two sisters were walking towards the auto stand at Boring Road crossing when the incident took place in full public view.
  
  Police said Ashish was picked up from Patna’s Khusrupur locality where he had taken shelter at a relative’s house while Snigdh and Prashant were arrested from Patna’s Shivpuri off Boring Road and Lodipur respectively.
  
  “Perturbed by media reports that police were on their lookout, Ashish had removed the bike’s registration number plates and dumped it into a garbage bin. He also confessed to have thrown the clothes he wore at the time of the incident,” said DSP (law and order) Shibli Nomani.
  
  Talking to newsmen, however, Ashish claimed he accidentally ended up touching the elder girl’s cheek as the bike had lost balance. He said he dragged the younger girl by her hair to free himself from her clutches. “She had caught me from behind after I had accidentally touched her sister’s cheek,” he said.
  
  Police said Ashish is son of Alok Kumar, who works with the   department in Patna while Snigdh’s father Sanjay Kumar is a government contractor in Jehanabad.
  
  Ashish conceded before newsmen he informed Prashant about the incident after police started searching for them.
  
  According to Patna SSP  , Prashant is the sixth owner of the bike. The ownership is still in the name of first owner Ram Vilas Mahto, he said, adding the accused have been booked under different IPC Sections and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.
