PATNA:   (NU) is concerned about the poor turnout of pupils as only 130 students are studying in the three schools of the university in the current batch. The issue of fewer students was discussed at length in the meeting of the newly constituted governing board of the university at New Delhi on Friday and measures were suggested to improve the situation.

 “It was observed that the number of students even after two years of NU’s launch is much lower than other international universities.   and less number of teachers are the two underlying factors behind this situation,” said one of the members of the governing board over phone from New Delhi.
 
 The number of students in the university has increased from 12 in the first batch (2014-16) to 130 (2016-18) from 13 different countries. The varsity offers masters courses in historical studies, ecology and environment studies and Buddhist studies. While classes are run from a makeshift campus at Rajgir — around 110km southeast from Patna, a sprawling campus is being developed over an area of 455 acres.
 
 “It was discussed in the meeting that there was no point in inviting more and more students if there was not sufficient space to accommodate them. Same is the reason behind less number of faculty members,” said the governing board member.
 
 The   had sanctioned Rs 2,727.1 crore to the university for the construction of its campus during its establishment phase from 2010-11 to 2021-22. The foundation stone for the campus was laid by President   on August 27 last year, but the actual   is still to commence.
 
 NU awarded the work for construction of non-residential buildings and other allied works to M/s NCC Limited, Hyderabad on January 27. The non-residential buildings constitute a major part of the university’s phase-I construction programme of its proposed campus. The work at the site is slated to begin by the end of this month and conclude within 36 months.
 
 “It was also observed that the pace of construction of the main campus must be expedited,” said the governing board member.
 
 
