NOIDA: A man who had posed as a domestic help and stolen jewellery from the house of a businessman in   was arrested by the   in Nalanda district,  , on Thursday. The man, Rahul Kumar, had made off with jewellery worth Rs 40 lakh, which he had stolen from one Dhruv Kumar residing in Sector 30.

 The theft had been reported on July 2 and the police had put the cellphone of the accused under electronic surveillance. A police team was then dispatched to Nalanda, where he was nabbed and brought back to Noida. He has now been taken on police remand, the police said. The police team that nabbed Rahul in Nalanda retrieved Rs 30 lakh worth of jewellery.
 
 According to police officers, the family lives in C Block of Sector 30. The theft took place when the head of the family, Dhruv Kumar, was alone at home. “All his family members — his wife, children and parents — were away, when the accused, Rahul, made away with the valuables,” said SP (City) Arun Kumar Singh.
 
 “Dhruv, a cloth merchant, used to leave his house early in the morning and return late. This left two domestic helps including a cook alone at home. Rahul was employed by the family in December 2016 on the reference of another employee,” Singh said. 
 
 “In February this year, Rahul was sent to Dhruv’s maternal home in Delhi. He was, however, brought back to Noida in May this year. On July 1, he took an advance from Dhruv on the pretext of bearing the cost of treating a sick relative and went on leave. Kumar’s wife returned from her holiday the same day and found her gold and diamond jewellery missing, which included some family heirlooms,” the SP said.
 
 The family lodged a police complaint with Sector 20 police station. 
 
 “We found Rahul’s phone was switched off. The address on the Aadhaar card was fake. We then put his phone under electronic surveillance and found his location to be in Bihar. A team was sent to Nalanda and he was arrested at his home,” Singh said.
 
 “We have taken him on remand and will soon recover the rest of the jewellery from him,” he said.
 
 
