MUMBAI: The city is home to the country’s best   hospital, Tata Memorial, but when it comes to timely diagnosis and treatment, other cities seem to fare better. In a multi-city survey involving 600 cancer patients, over 64% respondents fr-om the city said they were diagnosed with the disease after the second stage or even later. 

 One in two Mumbaikars, who participated in the survey, said   failed to read the initial signs of cancer and it took two-five visits to proceed to diagnostic tests. The situation was much better in south India, where 97% of the respondents said their family physicians were successful in understanding the symptoms. 
 
 The survey carried out in Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Kolkata found that   and initiation of treatment were common at all metros. But in Mumbai hospitals, patients said the wait for a confirmed diagnosis could stretch up to six months. Participants from other cities said their results were available within three months. The confirmed diagnosis of certain cancers like cervical and testicular, however, could take up to six months.
 
 Poor access to oncologists emerged as one of the chief reasons for the delay in cases where patients did not waste time in doctor shopping. Almost 50% of patients complained of poor access to oncologists followed by delay in understanding of symptoms by GPs for the time lost in getting a confirmed diagnosis. Mumbai here scored better than the southern cities, where one-third of the respondents listed poor access to oncologists as a problem. Lack of standardized care also seems to be plaguing cancer care in private and corporate hospitals. A staggering 70% of the respondents said they had to undergo a variety of tests with every new oncologist. “Timely diagnosis and treatment of cancer is crucial to avoid stages of life threats due to the disease,” Dr Kamran Khan, surgical oncologist at Parel’s   that commissioned the survey.
 
 “Those who approach in the first stage of cancer often have 85% chances of cure; in stage 2, there are 60% chances of cure; in stage 3, it falls to 30% and those who start treatment at stage 4 will not survive for more than five years,” said oncosurgeon Dr   of Asian Cancer Institute. “The sympto-ms in certain types of cancer, if based in publicly knowledgeable areas like pancreas and lungs, are easier to detect and these patients approach a doctor at a pre-palpable stage. But if the cancer is not specific, it is often misunderstood to be stomach ailment or cough and is neglected. Such patients consult a doctor in the advanced stages.”
 
 
