JAIPUR: The state government is all set to table the long-pending   (2015) during the next assembly session after incorporating various amendments. 

 Following the Centre’s direction, the government has removed clauses 6, 11 (1), and 11 (2) from the draft of the Bill to avoid conflict with the Centre’s   Bill. 
 
 A senior UDH official said, the Centre has agreed that state can incorporate clauses 4, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 of the Real Estate ( ) Act 2016 in the ownership Bill . The amended draft will now be tabled during the assembly session scheduled to be held next month.
 
 Clause 6 of the Rajasthan   Ownership Bill (2015) reads, “The promoter will have to maintain a common account of funds collected from apartment owners until the association is formed. Similarly, clause 11 states that no dues certificate shall be required by the allottee/buyer from the association before the transfer of apartment.” 
 
 “As both the provisions are covered under the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act 2016 the state has removed these clauses,” added the official.
 
 As the wait grows, the residents staying in apartments are back to the square one in the absence of clarity on their rights in the state. The state cabinet in February 2015 had paved the way for the bill which was sent for the final approval. If it was implemented as a legislation, every apartment in any building constructed or a structure converted into an apartment before or after the commencement of the bill would have fallen under its ambit. As per the proposed regulations, a builder will have to furnish a written commitment to pay a requisite penalty in case of missing the deadline in the proposed project. At the time of booking of an apartment, developers will declare the penalty for delay in completion or handing over the possession.
 
 It would also be mandatory for them to show the title deed of the land on which apartments are proposed, approved building plans, details of common areas and limited common areas. Moreover, the developers will have to specify in the agreement the details of built-up area of the apartment on the basis of which the price of the apartment shall be calculated. 
 
