LUCKNOW: The first list of government   released a couple of days ago said to have annoyed the functionaries of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). What has led to resentment among the Sangh-inclined lawyers and members under the banner of Adhivakta Parishad is the fact that of the 201 counsels in the first list, over 50 are believed to have allegiance with other political parties, or were government advocates in previous government also. 

 The RSS functionaries for the past two days are flooded with complaints of these ‘anomalies’ in the selection of  . They have begun taking up the issue at the top government level, sources said. Over 50 lawyers have allegiance with Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party, a lawyer told TOI. 
 
 "I am not pained over the fact that despite being an old-time RSS member, my name is missing from the list. What is shocking is the fact that many of the lawyers, who have found place in the first list, owe allegiance to rival political parties," a government counsel aspirant refusing to be named told TOI. A lawyer also confirmed to TOI that son of a former minister in SP government has again been taken.
 
 “Adhivakta Parishad was not given any major role in the selection of government advocates,” a lawyer told TOI. Adhivakta Parishad organisation secretary Satya Prakash, who is the in charge of Allahabad, Lucknow and Uttarakhand high courts, also confirmed to TOI that barring recommending a few names, the parishad had no role to play in the preparation of the list. 
 
 Sources said that the list of the advocates was prepared by the   senior functionaries and that made politicians and other influential persons to press for their choice of lawyers, too. Annoyed over such anomalies in the list, members of Adhivakta Parishad had a meeting with sangh pariwar members on Saturday. They expressed their unhappiness over the first list and demanded that it should be scrapped and a new list be prepared. 
 
 Satya Prakash told TOI said that some complaints had been received. However, he said that the issue was not that big as in lawyers' profession competency is the main criteria irrespective of inclination towards a particular party. Prakash also said that above all, not every lawyer having allegiance with the RSS or the BJP could be adjusted but added that even then the issue had been placed before appropriate authorities for remedial measures. 
 
 Sources said that the issue has come to the notice of both chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi and BJP organisation secretary Sunil Bansal. Both are believed to be discussing the issue with the senior RSS functionaries and trying to resolve the issue. Last time, there were 428 government advocates including both criminal and civil side. 
 
 
