NEW DELHI: The capital's   (IGIA) in the past has been lauded multiple times for their artworks and installations aimed to depict the cultural heritage of Delhi. Colours of Indian spices like saffron, cardamom and turmeric were chosen to represent different node buildings at the airport, while landscape concepts were chosen to depict the Qutab Minar, Ashoka Pillar, Amir Khusro, Ghalib, etc.

 According to DIAL, each artwork installed inside has been chosen specifically to give foreign tourists and visitors a complete `visual' in a soothing experience before they enter the country through the airport. The installations and sculptures installed are planned in such a manner that they could also get a preview of the capital, as well as around the country. Officials said a similar essence will be maintained at Terminal 2 which will become operational shortly , with a majority of the artwork already in place. The theme will closely resemble that of T3.
 
 “Each terminal has a different and varied theme, and ferent and varied theme, and the installations at T2 will have the same essence as T3.These installations at the airport represent the culture and rich heritage of India.The charkha at the airport entrance is also a popular attraction for tourists and symbolises the Swadeshi movement. Travellers can also experience various states represented in the walls, corridors, washrooms of the terminals,“ said an official.
 
 DIAL officials also say that different dance forms have been represented at the airport through different nodes. The east side node has representations of   dance forms, the north node depicts Bhangra, the west node depicts   and the south node has both Bharatnatyam and   illustrations. In addition, installations and sculptures have also been specifically placed to soothe travellers before and after their journey.
 
 “The nodes are in different colours to represent spices and have a dance form of the region illustrated there. Indian mudras or hand gestures of traditional dance forms and yoga have also been used in the passenger arrival area. They have been used as they are believed to aid spiritual and mental well-being,“ said a DIAL official.
 
