NAGPUR: With the sword of the Medical Council of India (MCI) hanging over the head of 12 medical colleges in the state for retaining the existing seats, the Maharashtra ministry of finance has, in principle, agreed to fund all the developmental projects in 2-3 phases in the coming years in these colleges.

 This includes Rs338 crore for the   (IGGMC) in the city with 150 seats. The decision in this regard was taken during a meeting on Monday at Mumbai. Chief of directorate of medical education and research (DMER) Dr Pravin Shingare told TOI that the directorate presented the status of all the 12 colleges in the meeting.
 
 The IGGMC funding will be sanctioned and released in 2-3 instalments in as many years. “These colleges have already been issued warnings from the MCI and hence there is urgent need to fill the vacant posts and install all major equipment on priority followed by other constructional requirements,” said Dr Shingare.
 
 The college acting dean   said that the colleges needed money under nine different heads for the administrative building, the 500 bedded hospital, Resident Medical Officer (RMO) Hostel (400 bedded), mortuary, laundry, elevated storage reservoir and sewage etc, equipment and manpower. “Filling posts and purchasing equipment will be the first priority and the money for this would come first,” she said.
 
 The Rs97 crore administrative building would house the dean’s office, administrative offices of all the 14 departments and laboratories of para-clinical subjects- microbiology, pathology, biochemistry, four seminar rooms of 180 capacity, four lecture halls of 350 capacity and two lecture halls of gallery type (auditorium type), upgraded library and the  .
 
 The teaching staff requirement includes 12 posts of assistant professors or lecturers and associate professors. College has demanded Rs1.5 crore for this. The equipment including 128 slices CAT scan, 1.5 tesla MRI and a   (DSA) costing about Rs23 crore will be bought from the proposed Rs45.45 crore. The remaining money will be used for buying equipment of other departments as per MCI requirements.
 
 “IGGMC would be one of the five colleges in state to establish an ideal mortuary on the lines of the Goa Medical College. It’s being done following court directives,” said Dr Shrikhande.
 
 The Rs100 crore ground plus six floor 500 bedded hospital will include all the intensive care units (ICUs) related to medicine and all allied branches like paediatrics, neonatal care, respiratory, cardiac and TB chest medicine. 
 
 The Rs54 crore RMO hostel (already released 12.57 crore for G+1 floor) will have G+4 floors and it will be 400 bedded facility.
 
 The funds include Rs33 crore for elevated storage reservoir (ESR), effluent treatment plant, sewage lines and internal roads. Another Rs25 crore will be used for examination cum auditorium purpose. Rs2.74 crore has been planned for raising the existing operation theatres to MCI norms.
 
