That Rabindranath   was a visionary is but known to all; at least to all those who study him or pretend to have read Rabindranath. The fact that he is more than what the   defines is so well beyond debate that the question alone becomes eminently basic. Although it might not be certain if our bard could foresee the political turmoil India would be subjected to seven decades after attaining swaraj, it would be safer to assume that he could at least anticipate the despair engulfing the psyche of every Indian. 

  It should be articulated clearly that Tagore’s humane intellect surpassed any political and philosophical gambit. The global   refused to accept the concept of the “Nation” and believed its presence to be a geopolitical entity set to govern over Indian citizens, marked by an essential political border. Tagore believed patriotism was intrinsic to the land and her people and must not be stemmed from the government as one of its policies. He trusted the power of globalization to take over and brew afresh a feeling of citizenship which does not root from hatred but unites men towards a greater cause—a wholesome development of the soul and the mind. And that is how the country would be free. 
 
  In his essay “The Nation”, Tagore says, “the nations do not create, they merely produce and destroy. Organizations for production are necessary. Even organizations for destruction may be so. But when, actuated by greed and hatred, they crowd away into a corner the living man who creates, then the harmony is lost, and the people's history runs at a break-neck speed towards some fatal catastrophe.” This passage actually reads like a reporting done today in the context of the catastrophic administration the country is witnessing. The relevance is striking. But what is worse is not the continuity of misgovernance, but the negligence of truth by a blinding false nationalistic force.
 
  Economist   writes, “Perhaps the central issues that moved Tagore most are the importance of open-minded reasoning and the celebration of human freedom. This placed him in a somewhat distinct category from some of his great compatriots. Tagore admired Gandhi immensely, and expressed his admiration of his leadership time and again, and did more than perhaps anyone else in insisting that he be described as ‘Mahatma’—the great soul. And yet Tagore frequently disagreed with Gandhi whenever he thought that the latter’s reasoning did not go far enough.” 
 
  Subhendra Bhowmik, sociologist and professor at Sidhu Kano Birsha University, says, “Tagore believed nationalism to be an opposing force to patriotism. Tagore’s concept of patriotism was more organic, whereas he believed nationalism as a more exclusionary term.   in his book Regimes of Narcissism Regimes of Despair has spoken extensively on this matter. While patriotism is an emotional attachment to one‘s home country, nationalism is an ideological construct. Patriotism is more territorially concrete though open-ended; nationalism, on the contrary, builds up closures around the abstract idea of a nation.” 
 
  In his essay “The Cult of the Charka”, Tagore writes, “The charka does not require anyone to think; one simply turns the wheel of the antiquated invention endlessly, using the minimum of judgment and stamina.” It is evident in his often-reiterated praise of   that Tagore never meant his words as an attack on somebody’s ideology, but he merely put across his opinions more like an argument. The statement relives even today when we see policy-makers getting involved in a citizen’s choice of diet or for that matter their partner as a step forward to the liberation of the country. Perhaps Tagore never dreamt that the Nation would encourage beating a crippled human to stand and sing the national anthem penned by him. Tagore wrote songs sometimes to alert humans of the need to be socially-aware and not politically and religiously blind. What Tagore meant was that maybe we are manipulated into getting confused about what exactly to be liberated from. And that is the scariest part. 
 
  
  
 What makes Tagore deeply embedded in India’s socio-political milieu today is his clear views against the kind of militant nationalism and communal disharmony deluging the country. During his travel to Iran, Tagore spoke, "Supposing one closed all the windows of a room and then asked how one could get some light, then someone may find an answer by striking flint stones, another by lighting an oil lamp, yet another by a wax candle, and someone else by switching on an electric light". A proponent of universal humanism, Tagore was prickled by the schisms and superstitions governing his own country. During the tour of Persia, he tried to learn more about Islam. 
 
   , Reader at Visva-Bharati university and a scholar of Tagore studies, says, “Tagore, during his Persia tour, visited the tomb of the Sufi mystic Hayez and was immersed musing on one question: 
  In a discussion with Jawaharlal Nehru, Tagore warned him that the fabric of India must not be woven with religious sentiments. Time and again, especially in his collection of essays, 
 , Rabindranath projected cosmopolitanism and believed one cannot impose on another the love for a certain sect of human being. One should be spiritually bounded by the love for mankind in general. This view was propagated through Tagore’s concept of 
 , which encapsulates globalisation as more of a humane phenomenon.” 
 
  
  
 Amartya Sen, once in an interview said, “There are many important ways in which he (Tagore) is still relevant. One of which is his essentially non-sectarian approach to life. He was very keen, of course, on India’s independence from British rule but he didn’t want to take a separatist view of Indian culture, certainly not the grandness of Indian culture over others, even though he was proud of it, but he thought that you would have reason to be proud of the culture of any country in the world. He said once that any product of any country that I enjoy becomes mine. So you don’t have to worry if it’s part of our tradition or not, because that is what your tradition is, namely, what you come to like.” 
 
  Tagore spoke about inter-racial cooperation which still, in this age, seems to be a pressing social matter. He writes, “The most important fact of the present age is that all the different races of men have come close together. And again we are confronted with two alternatives. The problem is whether the different groups of peoples shall go on fighting with one another or find out some true basis of reconciliation and mutual help; whether it will be interminable competition or cooperation.” The harrowing part is, even today people have to be counselled into breaking free from the shackles of “narrow domestic lines” and form a brotherhood of mixed race and class. “During the evolution of the Nation the moral culture of brotherhood was limited by geographical boundaries, because at that time those boundaries were true. Now they have become imaginary lines of tradition divested of the qualities of real obstacles. So the time has come when man's moral nature must deal with this great fact with all seriousness or perish.”, writes Tagore in his essay “Nationalism in India”. 
 
  Pinaki De, cover designer, academician, and an avid reader, says, “Rabindranath was deeply political. His untiring efforts in unshackling the mind from parochial ideologies deserve special mention. The kind of liberalism he practised must be read to understand the process of rising above the ongoing regressive nationalism in the country. His essays and letters provide the perfect antidote to today’s forced national pride. But it is sad that perhaps only half of his fantastic essays in Bengali are available in translation. Tagore is more relevant today than ever and it is extremely important that as Indians we read Rabindranath more than we sing his songs.” 
 
  Tagore’s novel 
  illustrates the hypocritical nationalistic zeal among people of power and the dichotomy they project in the domestic versus the public arena. Here’s a fantastic excerpt from the book: “’Is there any country, sir,’ pursued the history student, ‘where submission to Government is not due to fear?’ ‘The freedom that exists in any country,’ I replied, ‘may be measured by the extent of this reign of fear. Where its threat is confined to those who would hurt or plunder, there the Government may claim to have freed man from the violence of man. But if fear is to regulate how people are to dress, where they shall trade, or what they must eat, then is man's freedom of will utterly ignored, and manhood destroyed at the root.’” 
 
  Biswajit Mukherjee, whose field of specialization include Tagore and  , says, “In a country like India that is dominated by the perpetual crisis of religious intolerance and the essential distinction between human beings on the basis of religious belief, the character Anandamayee in Tagore’s novel 
  celebrates the idea of nationalism and motherhood from an entirely different perspective. Rather than being presented as an idealized woman/mother ready to sacrifice her own self, panegyrized and put on the same pedestal as Bharatmata, Tagore has presented her as a face of humanitarian values and ideals. She was the universal mother for whom caste, creed or class carried hardly any relevance.”
 
  Rabindranath ardently voiced the urgency of education across class, caste, creed, and gender. He ruled out the role of education behind Japan’s remarkable development. He spoke, “the imposing tower of misery which today rests on the heart of India has its sole foundation in the absence of education”. Tagore devoted his life to advancing education in India and advocating it everywhere he went. A living example would be Shantiniketan and the  , now known as the Visva-Bharati University. 
 
  
  
 
 
 When Hindu-Muslim riots, facilitated by political figures, broke out and partition became imperative, Tagore implored the urgency of inter-communal brotherhood. There is no Tagore to sing us songs of brotherhood anymore. Rather singers voice their inconvenience at religious chants from a separate community that maybe disturbed their sleep. Tagore writes, “We should remember that the doctrine of special creation is out of date, and the idea of a specially favoured race belongs to a barbaric age. We have come to understand in modern times that any special truth, or special culture, which is wholly dissociated from the universal, is not true at all. Only the prisoner condemned to a solitary cell is separate from the world. He who declares that India has been condemned by Providence to intellectual solitary confinement does not help to glorify her.” 
  
  Most of Rabndranath’s writings seek to instil a faith designed not by religious doctrine but spiritual guidance that governs the flowering of the mind destroying prejudiced beliefs along with the malpractices of casteism, communal hatred, and misogyny. In “The Religion of Man”, Tagore says, “Freedom in the mere sense of independence has no content and therefore no meaning”. He is of the view that “freedom would have no meaning, if one oppressive power was replaced by another, replicating the structures of hierarchy. The issues of caste and gender discrimination had to be tackled first, to promote social and religious harmony among the various sections of Indian society”. 
  
  The ostentation of patriotic endeavour triggered not by the love for people but an adherence to the government is undoubtedly detrimental for everybody. It is hard for blinded ‘nationalists’ to understand why Tagore loved his country but denied to worship it. He said, “To worship my country as a god is to bring a curse upon it.” What makes Rabindranath Tagore truly unique is his unfaltering faith in humanity: “I cannot afford to lose my faith in the inner spirit of man.” On his 156th birth anniversary, let Tagore’s words resound in every molecule of our being for the hope of a new "heaven of freedom". 
 
 
