HYDERABAD: While the hilltop shrine of Lord Balaji in Tirumala makes it an unsurpassed pilgrimage site, earning it the epithet of Vatican of East, devotees can skirt the ardous trek for salvation by offering prayers at a Tirupati replica in the heart of Hyderabad. Just 600 km from the revered sanctorum, the   at   in the state capital is unique among all   sub-shrines in the country and the world after introducing more TTD rituals.

 It has the rare distinction of preparing prasadam in the Potu (kitchen inside the temple). The assortment offered to the Lord includes Daddojanam, Ven Pongal, Pulihora, Chakkera Pongal and Malihora. “For making prasadam, the dittam (proportion of ingredients) used by TTD is strictly followed here,” said Krishnacharyulu, a temple priest.
 
 The Himayatnagar temple has another rare distinction of having ‘kalyanakatta’ or head tonsuring in the temple premises. Currently, this ritual has not been adopted by any other TTD sub-shrine, said temple officials. “The Tirumala board has to give a formal approval for ‘kalyanakatta’ at the Himayatnagar shrine. And we need to hire permanent employees to send the hair in hundi to Tirumala,” said Jaganmohnachari, joint executive officer of the temple.
 
 The tonsuring ritual is held outside temple premises. “Till we begin ‘kalyanakatta’, devotees can tonsure hair and send the hundi directly to TTD through courier,” said officials.
 
 The temple began as a prayer hall of TTD in mid-eighties and also doubled up as the information centre. Later, the temple with a replica of Lord Balaji’s idol was installed. Unlike other sub-shrines, where TTD takes all decisions, the Balaji Bhavan Liberty Devotees Society established in eighties took the initiative of building the shrine to organizing rituals. No other sub-shrine in India or abroad hosts three daily rituals of suprabhatam, tomala and sahasrakalasabhishema. “Also, abishekam, arjita sevas of kalyanostavam and unjal seva is performed the Tirumala way,” said Ramesh, a founder trustee of the society.
 
 While the Himayatnagar temple strives to provide the ambience of Tirumala, it does not have a ceiling, where devotees undertake ‘pradakshina’. “When it rains, the Lord’s chariot is stopped inside the temple. We are ready to fund the construction if TTD gives the green signal,” said Amruth Kumar Kota, another founder trustee of the temple.
 
 Regular devotees say the ‘kalaynamandapam’ beside the temple should be used only for religious purpose and not marriages. “They can use this as ‘Nadanirajanam’ of Tirumala where spiritual concerts are organised and stop commercial activity,” said S Chandrasekhar Sharma.
 
 
