Personally , I feel, an adaptation from a literary source is a perfectly accept able form of storytelling. When you are adapting from a written medium are adapting from a written medium -short story , novel or even a play and recreating it for celluloid -the medium is changing. You are essentially taking a piece of literature in written form and interpreting it in a visual medium. As a filmmaker, this is where you can add your own bit and the way the story will be told invariably changes.In narrative cinema, the story is the main driving force. If you are remaking another film, you are simply borrowing the backbone from someone else.For example, the very idea of a boy meets girl can be the premise of thousands of movies -Romeo and Juliet being the most generic one people look up to for inspiration. Similarly , a love triangle or a gangster trope can, too, inspire many films. But if the film I'm directing isn't reeking of my creative acumen, as a filmmaker, it is not satisfying enough for me. When I did  , I was borrowing  's   and Anthony and Cleopatra -both plays and recreating them on celluloid by reinterpreting and reworking the plot points. It was imperative that I added my storytelling persona or craft to it. This was possible because the medium changed -from a written piece of literature to a film. And thus, my creative contribution manifested itself in the narrative. But if medium is the same, a remake of a film from another film, the value addition is heavily constrained and in some cases, reduced to a bare minimum. There's no creative skills involved in a copy paste work. Being influenced is one thing but a frame-by-frame copy is quite another. If you are remaking something, localise it, recreate it on celluloid by localising, reinterpreting and reworking the plot points. A blind copy makes no sense to me.

 Filmmaking is a demanding, all-consuming process. You have to give it your all. It's almost like a baby . If there's no creative satisfaction, why would you even go through all the hassle? You can't get a creative high by simply playing a DVD and replicating every scene it plays. It's a deal-breaker for me.
 
 
