Lucknow: Following chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi’s ultimatum for a trash-free   within 15-days, acting mayor Suresh Awasthi assured that beginning Monday all streets of the city will be swept twice a day and   trash cans will be emptied on regular basis. A reality check by TOI on the first day found the condition on the roads as usual, with   strewn all around, heaps of trash on sides and stray animals feeding on it.

 Residents of 90% areas including Gomtinagar, Indiranagar, Mahanagar, Vikasnagar, Jankipuram, Rajajipuram and Old City said there was no sweeping even once of inter-colony roads and bylanes.
 
 “After we read in the newspaper that Lucknow Municipal Corporation is planning to conduct cleaning of roads twice daily with immediate effect, I decided to check it out but for the entire day on Monday not even once did any sanitary worker came to sweep the roads in my area,” said Shruti Bhatnagar, a resident of Gol Darwaza in Chowk.
 
 Even the arterial stretches including Vikramaditiya Marg, Charbagh main road, KD Singh Babu Stadium stretch, BN Road, Souza Road, Hanuman Setu Bridge, University Road, Samtamulak crossing, Lohia Path and Telibagh were not cleaned on the first day of the Mayor’s announcement.
 
 Right in the middle of an office place on Gokhale Marg huge piles of trash were spotted right next to an overflowing trash can. Locals complained that for the past couple of days they were witnessing a similar situation.
 
 “After the dust storm on May 4, several trees and bushes were uprooted and the next day all of it accumulated near the trash can and we thought LMC workers would clear it up but it has been almost a week since garbage has been collected or the roads cleaned,” said Riddhi Gaur, a resident of Gokhale Marg.
 
 There are several localities in the city where residents have employed sanitary workers to clean up roads at their own expenses. “It has been over 15 years that I am living in this locality but not even once have I seen any municipal worker in the area so we decided to contribute Rs 50 per month to private workers to get roads and parks swept,” said Ajay Asthana, a resident of Rajajipuram.
 
 Suresh Awasthi said, “There was no sweeping on Monday but I assure it will start very soon and the entire city will be cleaned.” 
 
 
