Puducherry: In an effort to expose the ‘double standards’ of the Congress government on the admission of students in   in the Union territory of  , lieutenant governor   on Monday questioned why the government failed to pass a legislation securing 50% of the seats under government   in private professional colleges in Puducherry.

 Bedi pointed out that the Tamil Nadu government had passed a legislation earmarking 65% of MBBS and BDS seats in non-minority institutions and 50% seats in minority educational institutions under government quota. “Why Puducherry government is not taking initiatives to pass such a law. The government must pass a resolution immediately without any further delay. As an administrator and lieutenant governor, I will ensure of approval from the President and other competent authorities concerned,” she said.
 
 In a letter to chief minister V   on Monday, Bedi also sought him to enact a law to ensure special provisions for the admission of students from socially and economically backward classes, scheduled caste and scheduled tribes into professional colleges. She also cited the relevant Article of the Constitution to pass such a law.
 
 Bedi said she had sought the secretary (education) on July 1 to pursue the issue in a time-bound manner. Bedi had also sought the education department to revamp the existing Centralized Admission Committee (Centac) to ensure transparency and gain public confidence. The Central Bureau of Investigation has launched a probe following widespread complaints of irregularities in admission of students by Centac.
 
 Bedi wondered why Narayanasamy urged the Union health and family welfare minister Jagat Prakash Nadda to earmark 25% of seats in deemed universities under the state quota knowing well that the admission in deemed universities has been brought under the ambit of Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) from this academic year. 
 
  She pointed out that the DGHS has allotted 511 of the total 533 seats under all India quota and 31 of the 67 NRI seats in the four deemed universities. Presently 22 seats under all India quota and 35 seats under NRI quota are vacant in these universities.
 
 Narayanasamy had again written a letter to Jadda on Sunday asking him to permit Centac to postpone counselling for MBBS admission under the management quota in private medical colleges, arguing that the committee invited applications from NRI students for MBBS admission only on Sunday. Centac had cancelled counselling for MBBS admission under management quota scheduled on Monday and did not announce the revised date.
 
 
