With less than a year to go for city-based   to fly its rover to the Moon, they have stepped up the pace on campaigns in their effort to fulfill their motto, #HarIndianKaMoonshot, making it every Indian’s mission. This week, the team is sending a bus called Moonshot Wheels to government schools across the country in an attempt to engage young minds in space education. Starting with three schools in Bengaluru, the bus will traverse across 11 states over the next one year in the hope of reaching out to over 35,000 students, who have little or no access to such information.
  from Team Indus explains, “In 2016, we launched a programme called Lab2Moon, which was our way of reaching out to youngsters in the field of science and technology. But what we realized was that we were engaging with folks who were pursuing science and already have access to such information. If we were to stay true to reaching out to every Indian, we had to look beyond digital and offline interactions, which is isolated to folks in urban areas. So, we decided to send a bus across the country to take space education to children in government schools, most of whom do not have access to the internet, or, for that matter, television.” The bus will carry 16 astronomy and science experiments, live satellite tracking, a 1:1 scale Moon rover, a 1:6 scale spacecraft model and an experience zone, giving each child the opportunity to experience and understand the making of a space mission.
 “The idea behind Moonshot Wheels is to bring the planetarium to students. We went on a pilot run to a school in   recently, and engaged with the children with this programme that is drafted in such a way that students visiting their school science fair have a great experience out there,” says Justin. Team Indus has partnered with  , which already runs programmes in government schools, for the campaign. “Trained instructors will travel on the bus across the country, and at each location, they will then teach local facilitators, who will impart knowledge in the language of the region. The goal is to get children excited enough that they will go back home and try to lay their hands on any source of information they can get,” he says. 
 
