CHANDIGARH: Former Haryana chief minister and senior Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s son-in-law,  , is among the top contenders for   in the Abohar assembly constituency which is represented by  . Name of Kunal has been suggested to the BJP parliamentary board by his mother Vijay Laxmi Bhadoo, who had contested the 2012 assembly election as the saffron party’s nominee but lost to Jakhar.

 A postgraduate in international accounting and finance from the London School of Economics, Kunal is married to Hooda’s daughter Anjali. While talking to TOI, Laxmi said after losing 2012 elections, she had devoted herself in the constituency, and it was because of her efforts that 22 of 30 villages sarpanchs in Abohar constituency were from BJP.
 
 “I gave my best to spread the policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the people of my constituency and made efforts to provide better facilities in health and education sector. I strengthened party while serving as women wing leader of BJP and served the people while working as chairperson of social welfare department. Now, I am 66-year-old and have told party that I don’t want to contest elections,” she said.
 
 She claimed that on party high command’s insistence, she has suggested the name of her son Kunal, who was not only young and highly educated but also active with her in social activities in Abohar constituency for the several years.
 
 When asked about Bhadoo family’s close ties with the Hoodas, Laxmi said she had been associated with BJP for over 25 years and her son was married to Hooda’s daughter in 2004. “My son’s relationship with a Congress leader should not be a disqualification. Arun Jaitely’s father-in-law G L Dogra was a very senior Congress leader of the country but that does not stop him from serving BJP,” she added.
 
 She said that her family had the capacity to defeat Jakhar family in Abohar. Abohar assembly seat is Hindi-speaking belt of Punjab and represented by Jakhar, son of Congress stalwart   for the past two terms.
 
 In the 2012 elections, Laxmi had to face opposition from local leaders of BJP and could manage to get only 9,251 votes and finished third after Jakhar polled 55,613 votes and now-jailed liquor baron Shiv Lal Doda got 45,825 votes.
 
 Kunal is a qualified chartered accountant from ICAEW in the UK and has worked for Pricewater House Coopers LLP for over six years in the banking and capital markets audit practice in London. He, along with his wife Anjali, also run ‘The Navyug Nirman Charitable Trust’ that works for the underprivileged.
 
 Kunal had also launched ‘Kunskapsskolan’ a Swedish personalized education system in the country. He owns four schools in different parts of the country. Bhadoo family also owns of big kinnow orchards in the area.
 
