PUNE: Two minor boys were detained by the   on Wednesday for allegedly pushing a 16-year-old boy to his death in the Mutha right bank canal near   on June 12.

 Both kept quiet for more than a month before confessing to the police. They even conducted searches with the  . Sustained police interrogation compelled the minors to spill the beans.
 
 “We have charged the minors with an offence punishable under section 363 (punishment for kidnapping), 364 (kidnapping or abducting for murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code,“ Kondhwa police senior inspector Satish Govekar said. The boys, both aged 16, took Ibrahim Aslam Mulla (also 16) swimming in the irrigation canal. Mulla lives in a chawl near Green Park Society in Kondhwa.
 
 The police said, one of the boys jumped into the water, while his accomplice pushed Ibrahim who was standing on the edge into the canal knowing that he could not swim. Ibrahim lost his balance, fell into the swift flowing waters of the canal and drowned. The other two boys fled the spot and did not inform Mulla's parents nor did they inform the police.
 
 When Ibrahim did not return home that evening, his parents started a search and registered a missing person complaint with the Kondhwa police on June 13.The complaint was converted into a kidnapping case as per the directions of the Supreme Court.
 
 The same night, the Cantonment police recovered an unidentified body from the canal behind  . Police registered a complaint of accidental death and a post mortem was performed at Sassoon General Hospital.
 
 The body was in a morgue for three days, but since his identity could not be established, the police performed the last rites.
 
 Sub-inspector Ganesh Kulal and his team suspected the involvement of Ibrahim's two friends after investigations showed the victim was last seen with them.
 
 After interrogating them for over a month, the minors broke down and confessed. They were produced before the juvenile court and sent to a children's home in Yerawada .
 
 The victim's father, Aslam Mulla, a welder told TOI, “We want   to be prosecuted for murder because it was planned. I am shocked that the duo remained silent for such a long time. They accompanied us to masjids, dargahs, bus stands and railway stations and other places in the city on the pre text of searching for my son.“ Another relative said they gave several names of boys suggesting that Ibrahim had been kidnapped.
 
