NAGPUR: Until a few years back,   was a difficult disease to manage, but the disease has become more manageable now due to the availability of newer drugs. Certain atypical anti-psychotic drugs now come in the form of injections, which are given once in fortnight or month. These also have fewer side effects, making the treatment more acceptable to patients and relatives.

 On the occasion of World Schizophrenia Day, Dr  , psychiatrist and professor at   (NKPSIMS), told TOI that the disease affects almost 1% of the population and recovery of patients is difficult in chronic cases. However, with the availability of improved injections, the treatment has taken a leap for the better if the disease is picked up in its early stages.
 
 “Such injections were there earlier also, but now their quality has improved so much that they have minimal side effects. Earlier, patient’s movements were affected severely. Now, such effects are not there and hence stigma has also reduced,” said Dr Bhave.
 
 Dr Vivek Kirpekar, also professor at NKPSIMS, explains that these medicines are best suited for patients who don’t cooperate with oral medicine. “There are oral tablets also, which can be given once a week. There are tablets which dissolve instantaneously in the mouth and are good for non- complying patients. But with injections too, the drug is released gradually in the body and results are very good. The only disadvantage is that new injections are comparatively costly,” he said.
 
 Dr Kirpekar said that generally patients with single episode of attack of psychosis are treated vigorously, and can be cured in one or two years. But patients with 2-3 attacks need treatment for 2-5 years and more than three attacks need treatment lifelong. He said the city may have as many as 20-30,000 patients. The disease comes to fore in early adolescence in males and after 30 years or so in females.
 
 “Relatives of these patients require a lot of education to help the patients. These patients also need rehabilitation, like attention, talking to them etc,” said Dr Kirpekar.
 
 Dr  , medical superintendent of  , said that as many as 95% of the hospital patients are schizophrenic. “It is good now that the government provides most of the drugs. Hence, they have become manageable. Earlier, medicines were simply not available,” he said.
 
 Most of these patients also have certain other diseases like hypertension, diabetes etc. It is not easy to diagnose all these diseases together. Hence, treatment also becomes difficult. Dr Navkhare says that there is a therapy called repetitive trans-cranial magnetic stimulation, which has a good effect in controlling hallucinations.
 
 Psychiatrist Dr Abhijit Faye feels that increased awareness in relatives to bring such patients for treatment has also helped in better management.
 
