Jaipur: People are being forced to buy high denomination non-judicial   due to shortage of small denomination, allegedly due to an artificial shortage created by the department to promote e-stamping in the state.

 The stamps of Rs 50 and Rs 100 are hard to come by and people were forced to use Rs 500 value non-judicial stamps instead. “This is nothing but a loot by the government,” said an irate customer who came to purchase a Rs 100 stamp at the Rajasthan high court on Thursday. “My rent agreement was delayed by a month as stamps of Rs 100 were difficult to get,” said Mahesh Sharma, a person working with a private organization. 
 
 While the stamp vendors association blame the government for creating artificial shortage of stamps by reducing the supply, the government seems unbothered about the difficulties being faced by the people.
 
 A vendor at the high court said, “We get 200 stamps of Rs 50 value and 50 stamps of Rs 100 value for a week. In reality, this many is the demand for a single day. In the absence of small denomination stamps the public is forced to buy high denomination stamps.”
 
 “Very often arguments and quarrels brake out as people suspect that the vendors are hoarding the stamps,” said the vendor.
 
 Rajasthan licensed Stamp Vendors Association secretary Mahesh Jhalani said about 15,000 licensed stamp vendors weer facing problems as the stamp supply has been curtailed by the authorities. He said the government had given franchise for e-stamping to the E-stamping Stock Holding Corporation Ltd but it has failed to take off. Now in order to promote e-stamping, it has curtailed the supply of stamps. This has resulted in a shortage.
 
 The officials at the stamps and registration department feigned ignorance about difficulties being faced by the people. Dr Rajesh Sharma, IG Stamps, said, “We procured four trucks of stamps from the government press at Nashik last month and distributed these to the vendors.” “I am not aware of any shortage and will look in to the complaints,” he told TOI over the phone.
 
 
