MANGALURU: MP   who inaugurated MRPL’s   (KVK) on Sunday emphasized the need to light the lamp of prosperity and knowledge in every home and every village, drawing from the vision of Mahatma Gandhi and Swami Vivekananda who pointed out that every person is a unit for nation-building. Complimenting   on launching the kendra, he said this is a wonderful opportunity for talented youth to build their career.

 B A Mohiuddin Bawa, Mangaluru city North MLA, chief guest, said that he will wholeheartedly support the kendra as it will generate more job opportunities for unemployed youth in the region. Promising help in sanctioning 10 acres of land for setting up the MRPL KVK for the benefit of the people of Dakshina Kannada district, the MLA exhorted the youth to avail benefit of training provided at the centre and thereby, give their contribution to nationbuilding.
 
 H Kumar, managing director, MRPL elaborating on the skilling programme said the first batch of 60 youths will be trained in partnership with NTTF in two trades – industrial electrician and CNC operator-turning. In this batch, youth in the age group of 17-25 years with an eligibility of 12th/ITI will be trained in industrial electrician and those with 10th pass/12th pass or failed will be trained in CNC operator-turning. MRPL KVK will bear all course related expenses of trainees.
 
 On successful completion, certification at level 3, under  , will be issued and candidates with no mobility constraint will be placed by NTTF. Kumar reiterated MRPL’s commitment to support national development schemes of the government. MRPL KVK launch testifies to the same, he said adding that MRPL has got the approval to launch a start-up fund of Rs10 crores which will be used to support the new ventures/startups of the youth.
 
 MRPL has opened a Facebook page www.facebook.com/mrpl.kvk for public interface and registration.
 
 Smoke-free village
 
 Nalin also launched an MRPL smoke-free village campaign. As part of oil and gas conservation month, MRPL has identified villages under four gram panchayats in its surroundings and decided to make them smoke-free. Under this campaign, identified BPL families, hitherto using kerosene and firewood, are given free LPG kits and gas stove. MRPL is bearing the cost of the gas kit as well as the gas stove which is provided to these beneficiaries free of cost.
 
 In the first phase, about 200 families from Soorinje and Chelyaru GPs have been distributed free kits. In the second phase on February 15, villagers from Permude and Jokatte GPs will be given the free LPG kits. After the distribution of LPG kits, presidents of Soorinje and Chelyaru GPs declared their villages as smoke-free. H Kumar said MRPL is taking up this initiative under its corporate social responsibility initiatives to bring joy into the lives of people.
 
