NEW DELHI: Soon you will be able to find out whether any second-hand vehicles you are buying is not a stolen one or involved in any crime. This will be possible as the   on Friday approved changes in the Motor Vehicles Amendment Bill, which includes having a national register of all vehicles.

 Sources said the updated details of vehicles such as the chassis number, engine number, make and year of manufacture will be available in the national register and this will help in checking the credentials while approving the ownership transfer of all vehicles. This will also make it almost impossible for inter-state gangs involved in stealing vehicles from one state and selling them in other states with forged documents.
 
 The Cabinet also approved fixing the immediate compensation to road crash victims – Rs 5 lakh for death and Rs 2.5 lakh for serious injuries – besides increasing the compensation for hit and run cases from present Rs 50,000 to Rs 2 lakh. In the first case, the insurance company concerned will contact the victim’s family members to settle the case before proceedings start in the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT). This amount has to be paid within one month.
 
 TOI had first reported this earlier this week. Road safety activists have criticised this move.
 
 Those who pursue cases in the MACT will get compensation within three months. The bill also provides for bringing drivers and other co-workers engaged in transport vehicles under the coverage of third party insurance compensation. This will improve the social security of contractual workers in transport firms.
 
 The changes in the Bill also include using Aadhaar details for online verification of all applications and strict penal provisions for faulty design and poor maintenance of roads resulting in crash or death.
 
 To avoid the long process of legislation for changes in the law, the Bill proposes 10% annual increase in penalties for traffic and transport related offences and setting up of a road safety board.
 
 Road transport ministry officials said the bill aims to check corruption in RTOs, extending validity of transport licence to five years from the present three years besides computerised vehicle fitness regime. There will also be norms for scrapping old vehicles. 
 
