New Delhi: The government on Monday said gifts up to Rs 50,000 per year by an employer to his employee will be outside the ambit of the   ( ) while free membership of a club, health or fitness centre will not come under the new tax regime.

 The   also said free housing to employees, when it is provided in terms of the contract between the employer and employee and is part of the cost-to-company will not be subject to GST.
 
 “It is being reported that gifts and perquisites supplied by companies to their employees will be taxed under GST. However, gifts of value more than Rs 50,000 made without consideration are subject to GST, when made in the course or furtherance of business,” the finance ministry said in a statement.
 
 Stating that gift has not been defined in the GST law, the ministry said in common parlance, gift is made without consideration, is voluntary in nature and is made occasionally. “It cannot be demanded as a matter of right by the employee and the employee cannot move a court of law for obtaining a gift,” it said. On the issue of taxation of perks, the ministry said services by an employee to the employer in the course of or in relation to his employment is outside the scope of GST (neither supply of goods or supply of services).
 
 “It follows there from that supply by the employer to the employee in terms of contractual agreement entered into between the employer and the employee, will not be subjected to GST,” the statement clarified.
 
 It also said that the input tax credit (ITC) scheme under GST does not allow   of membership of a club, health and fitness centre. “It follows, therefore, that if such services are provided free of charge to all employees by the employer then the same will not be subject to GST, provided appropriate GST was paid when procured by the employer,” the statement added.
 
 Experts said the clarification by the ministry puts several issues at rest that the industry was worried about.
 
 It has been clarified that anything done by employer for employee in terms of employment contract will not be subject to GST. These should include benefits offered in terms of providing cars for official use, free meals, gym and such other amenities provided to employees as part of a employment contract. Therefore, GST will have to paid only in exceptional situation where gifts are given on voluntary basis, such as Diwali gifts to employees and that too if the value is more than Rs 50,000,” said Pratik Jain, partner and leader indirect tax at consulancy firm   India.
 
 
