IMPHAL: After months of speculation, allegations and politicking over the Naga framework agreement, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that the agreement did not contain any clause that may pose a threat to the territorial integrity of Manipur. 

 Addressing a 50,000-strong audience at an election rally in Imphal West, Modi accused chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh of politicising the Naga framework agreement and playing divisive politics for electoral gains. He sought to assure the people that Manipur’s territorial integrity would be protected at all costs. 
 
 “The agreement does not have anything that can harm Manipur’s territorial integrity; it does not contain a single word that can hurt Manipur. The CM has divided the communities to remain in power. He does not have the right to continue in his chair,” Modi said, even though he didn’t name Ibobi in his entire speech. He added, “The CM is raising the agreement now, before the election. My question is: were you sleeping for the past one and a half years?” 
 
 The question about the content of the framework agreement, signed between the Centre and the militant outfit National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Isak-Muivah) in 2015, has been raised by Congress members time and again. Congress has even claimed that “BJP is hand-in-glove with the group”. BJP played its trump card on Saturday by bringing the titular king of Manipur, Meidingu Leishemba Sanajaoba, to Modi’s rally. Since the merger of Manipur with India in 1949, this was the first time that the titular king was invited to share a platform with the PM. 
 
 Lost in translation 
 
 The titular king addressed the rally just before Modi’s arrival. However, he didn’t seek votes. He addressed the crowd as “my people” and appealed to the PM to clear the people’s apprehensions doubts regarding Manipur’s territorial integrity. Though the response at the rally was impressive, almost half of the crowd could barely understand what Modi was saying as he spoke in Hindi. The state BJP had not engaged an interpreter. 
 
 (Inputs from K Sarojkumar Sharma)
 
