Step into the University Senate Hall where the   (KU)   is on, and you’re greeted by banners made of cloth. On another part of the venue, students distribute food in eco-friendly plates. And all of them wear ID cards made of jute. Yes, the 39th edition of the   Youth Festival is all about going plastic free.
 The five-day event which kicked off in Trivandrum on March 27 will witness the participation of around 5,000 talented youth from more than 250 colleges affiliated to the University of Kerala contesting in 96 events spread across nine venues.
 Kochi Times does a round up.
 
 
 
 
 The art event which was inaugurated by Chief Minister   on Monday evening, will see the addition of new events this time. Prathin Saj Krishna, general convener of theYouth Festival says, “Apart from the usual categories, this year we have three new items, Chakyarkoothu, Nangiarkoothu and Vanchippattu. We have a set of new judges as well this year. The information about them is confidential and will be revealed only at the time of the event.” Prathin adds that they have also arranged an open forum where eminent personalities will discuss topics related to the cultural scenario of Kerala. “The festival is an artistic protest against the fascist interventions in the cultural scene of our society.”
 
 The events are being supervised by respective committee members and volunteers including KU union members to ensure smooth conduct of the festival.
  The festival venues which host the cultural fiesta have been named after late renowned artistes in cultural and literary fields. For example, the classical dance venue, Minnaminungu, is a tribute to the late actor Kalabhavan Mani.
 
 
 
 
 Actress Sreelekshmi, who was a Kalathilakam in the year 1991, says that the essence of the festival has changed, over time. “It was a five-day extravaganza for us and we used to participate in individual as well as group items, without bothering about the marks. But now, there is too much emphasis on grades and points. Participants have become more self-centred. Also, I miss those days when the winners were given first, second and third prizes, instead of grades,” she says, adding, “I am looking forward to see the young talents in the classical dance categories this year.”
 
 
 
 
 The organisers have adopted measures to implement green protocol throughout the festival. “The festival will be an eco-friendly and plastic-free one and we have made special arrangements to use paper cups and eco-friendly plates for distribution of food. Also, all the banners are made of cloth and plastic flex boards are a strict no-no. Even the identity cards distributed for the volunteers and the participants are made of jute,” says Prathin.
 
 To ensure safety and security of the female participants in the festival, around 200 pink volunteers from various colleges across the city have been roped in. S Pushpalatha, district secretary of the Democratic Women’s Association, who is in charge of the pink volunteer committee, says, “The committee gives utmost importance to privacy in the green rooms. The volunteers will take care of the safety, especially of the female participants, whose programmes wind up late at night. Also we have pink counters, with 10 volunteers each, at all the nine venues where they can register complaints or ask for help. The counters will also provide water, first aid and sanitary napkins.”
 
 
 
 The festival is under the strict surveillance of the Vigilance and the Anti-Corruption Bureau. According to a member of its organising committee, the phone calls and real-time interactions of judges will be continuously monitored in order to ensure more transparency. Ex MLA V Sivankutty, who is the chairman of the Youth Festival, says that second chances will not be entertained in any of the competitions. “From this year onwards, if the participants do not turn up by the end of the third call, their team will be cancelled and they will not be given a second chance under any circumstances.”
 
