PATIALA: The Enforcement Directorate ( ) has unearthed records of properties worth several crore rupees belonging to three officials of Punjab’s public works department ( ) that were bought with money allegedly siphoned from the state exchequer. The three officials are accused of preparing forged letters of credit and bills of unauthorized works for draining off the department’s funds.

 Investigations carried out by the ED into nine FIRs against executive engineer (XEN) Joginder Singh, junior engineer (JE) Sarabjeet Singh and a retired superintendent Satpal Bansal by the state vigilance bureau between 2011 and 2014 in Bathinda revealed that the accused bought properties and gold worth over Rs 20 crore in the name of their nine relatives. The names of their relatives were incorporated in the Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) registered by the ED under Section 45 (1) of the Prevention of   Act (PMLA) of 2002.
 
 In the 2,276-page challan that has been filed before the special   court in Patiala, which is also designated to hear PMLA cases, ED’s assistant director Deepak Chauhan stated that Joginder purchased properties in the name of his wife Kamaljeet Kaur, father-in-law Joginder Singh and mother-in-law Gurcharan Kaur. Sarbjeet got the properties in the names of his mother, maternal uncle and two cousins. The third accused Satpal bought properties in the name of his wife.
 
 Special prosecutor for ED Jagjitpal Singh Sarao pointed out in the challan that 12 persons, including three PWD (B&R) officials and their relatives, committed an offence of laundering the money that had been ill-gotten by preparing fake letters of credit, bill and granting works. The accused were having assets disproportionate to their known sources of income, the ED has said.
 
 In the FIRs that were registered by the state vigilance bureau it had been alleged that Joginder and Satpal conspired to forged letters of credit, bills and granted works in an unauthorized manner. Joginder had been accused of embezzling of around Rs 17 crore. He was also accused of buying an SUV from the government funds and also transferring public money to his own account. He faced charges of financial irregularities in tender process for construction of the judicial complex at Budhlada town of Mansa district. Similarly, Sarabjeet siphoned more than Rs 6 crore by fraudulently effecting payments to contractors. Their family members were found to have assisted in laundering of this money.
 
 The ED stated, “Attachment orders of proceeds of crime generated out of aforesaid criminal activities, which included 163 gold biscuits weighing 4,094 grams, jewellery 330 grams and other movable and immovable assets identified in various cities of Punjab worth more than 20 crores, had already been issued.”
 
 Sarao said soon after filing of the challan, the accused had started filing for anticipatory bail in the courts. He said the evidence that had been put on record by ED brought to the fore a link between the money siphoned from the state exchequer and properties brought by them.
 
 
