In yet another case of  , a   and her ailing 58-year-old mother were duped by a  , who gave them tickets on Haridwar Express with  . Even the coach mentioned in the ticket did not exist. In March, Snigdhaa Chaudhry, 33, a resident of Thakur Village in Kandivali, and her mother   had planned to visit an ashram in Haridwar in April for the latter's medical treatment. To find a travel agent, Snigdhaa called up a popular local search engine. The search engineer not only texts and emails the contact information to any caller, but also shares the information of the caller to the vendors listed with them.

 "We almost immediately received a call from one Rakesh from Riddhi Travels from Malvani, Malad who told us that he would get us two confirmed train tickets booked through VIP quota for Haridwar express for April 26 in AC 3 Tier, which would depart from Bandra at 11.45 am. He also told us that since he was booking under VIP quota, he would need a photocopy of one of our photo IDs," recalled Snidhaa.
 
 A few days later an office boy from the travel company arrived and delivered the tickets in return for the fare of Rs 8,500. He also handed over a receipt for the cash. It was only when Snigdhaa, a food stylist, and her mother arrived at Bandra Terminus on April 26, the date of the journey, that they realised that they had been cheated.
 
 "We reached the station well in time with our bag and baggage, but we couldn't find our coach B3 mentioned in our tickets. Neither were our names in the passengers' list. When we went to the inquiry office, the official told us that our PNR number didn't exist at all and there was no coach called `B-3' in Haridwar Express," said Snigdhaa.
 
 When Snigdhaa tried contacting the agent Rakesh, no one answered the calls. She then reported the matter to Samta Nagar police station in Kandivali which lodged a non-cognisable complaint.
 
 "Since we had the receipt with the address for Riddhi Travels, we checked the address as well. The office building did exist, but there was no travel agency, but a Xerox centre who had never heard of Riddhi Travels," said Snigdhaa. She is also upset at the search engine through which the agent got in touch with her. "Is the search engine going to compensate us for the time, money and energy spent on this?" she asked. When Mirror reported the matter to Anil Kumar Saxena, Additional Director General, Public Relations, Railway Board, he said, "Passengers should book tickets through the IRCTC portal or at the ticket window or only through authorised booking agents. I also appeal to passengers to report such cases to the railway administration immediately."
 
 A railway official said that this is a new trick conmen have been pulling off this summer. "This season, there is a sharp increase in these kind of cases on both central and western railways," said a ticket checking department official.
 
