Sangrur: Four persons were believed to have been killed and several injured in a blast on Tuesday evening at a cracker warehouse at Sullar Gharat near Dirba in Sangrur district late.

 The blast occurred at around 9pm at Gandhi Warehouse, which is used for storing huge quantities of crackers that are supplied across the state during the festive season. Police sources said due to the upcoming Diwali season the owners of the warehouse had filled the godown to its full capacity.
 
 Police and district administration officials reached the spot within few minutes of the explosion and started rescue operations. The exact cause of the blast is yet to be established.
 
 SHO Dirba Pushpinder Singh, who was amongst the first ones to reach the spot, said that they were trying to pull out the dead bodies from the debris and rescue the injured. A large part of the structure was badly damaged in the blast and so was a commercial pickup vehicle. Half burnt boxes of different types and brands of firecrackers were strewn all over the building.
 
 Sangrur SSP M S Sidhu said they had called in additional security personnel to assist in the rescue operations. He said their focus was to save lives of those who could still be buried under the debris.
 
 “An elaborate search of the entire area where the blast has occurred is being conducted to look for survivors. Once the situation is brought under control and the injured are shifted to nearby healthcare centers, we will start looking into the reasons of the blast,” Sidhu said.
 
 CM mourns deaths
 
 Chandigarh: CM Amarinder Singh expressed grief over the massive explosion in a cracker factory, which led to four casualties. According to an official spokesperson of CMO, Amarinder directed the deputy commissioner of Sangrur to ensure the best possible treatment to all the injured at free of cost besides making adequate arrangements for safe evacuation of people from the debris. He also asked the deputy commissioner to personally supervise the entire rescue operations.
 
 
