Red Bull Racing’s   has been left red-faced; after a spin into the gravel during the final session of qualifying put him out of contention for pole – and mean he will start tomorrow’s   from 10th.

 Ricciardo was on his first flying lap in Q3, 4-minutes into the 12-minute session, but lost control of his car at the exit of Turn 14 – spinning through 180-degrees to smack the barrier with the RB13’s rear.
 
 The Australian was naturally devastated, despite a supportive local crowd that gave him a round of applause as he made his way back to the pits.
 
 “Firstly, I’m frustrated with myself, but then I [also] feel for the mechanics who are going to have a long night,” said Ricciardo, who still has a chance to at least equal his best result on home soil, fourth scored in 2016.
 
 “Obviously [I feel] for the crowd, I’m sure that they didn’t want to see me in the barriers. Look, it’s better in Q3 than Q1. I’m trying to have a good perspective.
 
 Ricciardo said the new cars are a lot more violent and aggressive, which caught him out – his spin robbing him of a potential top-five grid slot.
 
 “I’m comfortable in it [the car], there’s still a bit to learn,” he said.
 
 “I don’t tend to find myself in the barriers much, so sure it’s a bit of an odd sight to see me backing into the tyres. 
 
 “So, with the new cars, there’s more grip, which makes them stick to the track easier but when they go wrong they seem to obviously bite a bit harder.”
 
 “I’ve created a bit more work for myself and, also, unfortunately the mechanics tonight. I feel for them. I know they’ve had a long week actually; it’s been pretty tough getting the cars prepared for the weekend. 
 
 “All good, we’ll turn it into a bit of aggro tomorrow, and hopefully buy them all a few stubbies [beers] after the race, after a better result than today.”
 
 Mercedes’   starts from pole position – his fourth-consecutive in Melbourne; his 62nd overall, three short of the legendary Ayrton Senna’s record.
 
 Ferrari’s   joins Hamilton on the front row, ahead of new Silver Arrows driver  .
 
 
