COIMBATORE:   on Sunday launched flights between Coimbatore and  . With this, Coimbatore has become the fourth city in Tamil Nadu and 14th in the country where SriLankan Airlines operates it services. 

 The airline will operate flights four times a week -- on Sunday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday. It is hoping to operate daily services by next season.
 
 The first flight from Colombo landed at the Coimbatore International Airport at 2.35pm. It left for Colombo at 3.35pm.
 
 “On the first day of operation we had more than 80% passenger load,” said Siva Ramachandran, chief operating officer of SriLankan Airlines.
 
 This 80% passenger load is a positive sign for the airline. “If we continue to have good passenger load, we may operate a flight daily from Coimbatore to Colombo. This could be implemented next season (October), provided we have aircraft availability,” Ramachandran said.
 
 With the introduction of Coimbatore-Colombo operations, SriLankan Airlines will be operating 126 flights to India every week, of which 60 flights are to Tamil Nadu (Chennai-35, Trichy-14, Madurai-7 and Coimbatore-4).
 
 “We have been introducing new flights across India. We get 18% tourist fall from India, the highest among all the nations,” said Ramachandran. 
 
 “We had operated flights from Coimbatore between 2003 and 2008. However, we suspended operations owing to commercial and operational commitments. We have thoroughly studied the Coimbatore market and we strongly feel that Coimbatore is one of the places where we should start operations,” he added.
 
 The flight to Colombo will benefit travellers from Coimbatore to connect to the Middle East, the Far East and Australia. “We are commencing operations to Melbourne in October. This will help students studying in the state of Victoria and New South Wales to reach India easily,” said Ramachandran.
 
 Given the fact that   and   are five hours by Road from Coimbatore, SriLankan Airlines will have to price its tickets competitively. “The fall in passenger will be only marginal in Madurai and Trichy. At the same time, Coimbatore is a big catchment area as we expect passengers from  ,” he added.
 
 The airline is also studying the Coimbatore market for freight services. “We have been consistently studying the market and when the right time comes, we might initiate freight operations too,” said Ramachandran. 
 
 
