State board students in Class   will not have the information and communication technology ( )   from next year, the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has decided.

 ICT is an added subject only for   IX for which grades were given. Now, the lessons will be incorporated in the language and maths subjects instead of a separate paper. However, schools are yet to get a directive from the board on adjusting the time-table with one subject less.
 
 The move is likely to save the efforts of over 50,000 schools in the state that conduct one extra paper for class IX, every year. Scouts and guides, work experience and vocational skills will be taught under life skills and arts as one subject, the board also decided.
 
 State board chairman Gangadhar Mhamane told TOI on Thursday that the subject is now being made application-based and hence merged with language and maths.
 
 “The previous ICT syllabus was very basic and it was found that students were already proficient in the lessons taught and it required more of an application-based teaching. Hence, subjects like maths would have some ICT application-based questions which the students would solve using computers,” he said. The subject was introduced for standard IX in 2012 and all students had to appear for this paper compulsorily.
 
 With the merging of scouts and guides, work experience and vocational education under life skills and arts subject, schools will no more have separate exams for these three subjects, nor would they be project books or orals, among other things. 
 
 Mhamane said, “With the advancement of technology, ICT started becoming redundant as many students already knew most of the topics.”
 
 Anil Bornare, president of Mumbai’s Shikshak Parishad, however, said that the board is yet to give directive on how the time-table has to be adjusted. “The year’s schedule is planned in advance in April. And teachers go on vacation in the May. But with the lack of directives, the schools are clueless on their next move,” said Bornare.
 
 (With inputs from Yogita Rao)
 
 
