MUMBAI: Convene a   to ensure maximum voting from eligible members, the state government has directed housing societies across major cities. 

 The special meeting to create awareness and train new voters ahead of elections is compulsory as per law and any negative remark by the society auditors can lead to dismissal of the society’s management committee or disqualification of its members, said a senior cooperative department official. 
 
 There are around 70,000 housing societies in Mumbai metropolitan region.
 
 The registrars of cooperatives have written to societies in their respective jurisdictions that a  , dated October 13, 2016, has directed all cooperative housing societies in Greater Mumbai to convey the special general body meeting before the voting day to discuss the election process and ensure maximum participation of resident members. 
 
 A letter received by Bank of India Staff Panchasheel Cooperative   in Andheri (W) from deputy registrar Pratap Patil of K-West ward said according to the powers vested under the   1960, housing societies have to ‘arrange and convey the special general body meeting...on or before February 20, 2017’. A senior cooperatives department official said if societies fail to conduct sensitization programmes for voter members, the auditor can put a negative remark on the society report about the breach of directives. “If adverse remarks from auditors about not abiding by the election training directives of the government reach the cooperatives office, then within three months, the managing committee can be dismissed by the registrar or the members can be disqualified for a period of five years,” said Ramesh Prabhu, chairman of Maharashtra Societies Welfare Association. Similar laws are applicable for internal elections.
 
 He added that under Section 24A of the Maharashtra Cooperatives Act, it is mandatory for societies to train and make people aware about the importance and process of voting for elections. “For society elections too, eight to 10 different NGOs have been notified by the government, through which the training programmes can be held in the society meetings to encourage participation. According to a May 15, 2015 circular, a minimum of 20% members should be trained every year so that in five years, all 100% members get the training about how and where to vote. The directives from the cooperatives department have legal backing,” Prabhu said.
 
 An official from the cooperatives department said that the circular is aimed at creating an environment that will encourage more and more voters to exercise their franchise and strengthening the spirit of the democratic society.
 
 
