PATNA: Amid noisy scenes created by student representatives and other members at the  , the   (PU) senate on Saturday passed a Rs 322.49 crore deficit   for the financial year 2017-18.
 
  As soon as vice-chancellor (VC) Sudhir Kumar Srivastava completed his address, student senators Anu Priya, Anshuman and Pappu Verma raised their voice against the alleged apathy of the university towards genuine grievances of the pupils. They wanted a specific reply from the VC on issues like election to the PU students’ union (not held after 2012), improvement in condition of different hostels and provision of at least minimum basic amenities in different colleges and postgraduate departments. For some time, they obstructed the proceedings of the house in support of their demands.
  
  JD(U) legislator Neeraj Kumar and some non-teaching staff regretted that there was no mention of PU’s centenary celebrations in the VC’s address. Employees’ representative Raghu Sharma criticized the university’s recent action in demolishing the quarters occupied by the employees without providing any alternative residential accommodation for them. A sum of Rs 4.5 crore sanctioned by the UGC for construction of employees’ quarters five years ago had still not been utilized, he said.
  
  The senators expressed concern over the reported decision of PU to declare the post of principal as a non-teaching employee and demanded its immediate withdrawal. “How can a non-teaching staff be a member of the academic council and serve as the dean of a faculty,” they asked, demanding rectification in the university Act and statutes.
  
  Syndicate member and history department head Amar Nath Singh pointed out that the Budget estimates envisage an expenditure of Rs 353.32 crore against an income of Rs 30.83 crore from all sources. The expenditure is likely to be met with grants from the education department (Rs 337.94 crore), state science and technology department (Rs 3.90 crore), self-financing courses (Rs 8.28 crore), and directorate of distance education (Rs 3.20 crore).
  
  Due to non-receipt of statutory grants from the state government to the tune of Rs 19.32 crore for the last 12 years, the university has been facing difficulties in clearing its outstanding liabilities, including payment of electricity charges, municipal taxes, and judicial expenses. “The Budget envisages a special provision of Rs 35.49 crore for payment of arrears, dearness allowance, electricity bill and municipal taxes. A sum of Rs 8.80 crore has been earmarked for campus beautification as the university is preparing for its centenary celebrations and also for its accreditation by the   ( ),” Singh said and added, “PU has submitted a proposal to the government for its infrastructural development at an estimated cost of Rs 1516.84 crore under Rashtriya Uchchtar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA) in the current five-year plan. In its centenary year, the university is contemplating to develop at least three ten-storeyed blocks (one each for science, humanities and social science faculties) at an estimated cost of Rs 200 crore to accommodate all its postgraduate departments.”
  
  Earlier, the VC, in his address, presented the details of progress made by the university during the last one year. While the entire campus has been freed from encroachments by unauthorized people, the PU central library is being renovated and modernized with the financial support from the state government. 
