Start with a rice pack, move on to a vitamin C one and end it with a hydrating pack! Here’s why putting several masks in a row is in vogue.

 Last year, 'masking' truly came out in the open. Everyone — from Hollywood celebrities like January Jones, Karlie Kloss to beauty bloggers, and back home, even Pammy Aunty — made face masks fashionable. Ladies and gents, what we are now experiencing is mask bingeing! 
 
 
 
 When people put on several different masks in a row to treat whatever they want, you call it mask bingeing. For instance, start with a rice face pack for skin lightening, then move on to a vitamin C pack for tightening pores and finish off with a hydrating pack. In short, you are allowed to OD on mask treatments. Beauty blogger Sonal Sagaraya says, ''Millennials are the new beauty trendsetters. This generation believes in getting fast beauty results. They don’t have the time or patience to sit it out at the parlours.'' Hence, the popularity of ready-to-use masks.
 
 
 
 Sagarya is a big fan of DIY sheet masks, and uses different oils (like eucalyptus or peppermint) to make her customised sheet masks. ''Soak a mask sheet in different oils depending on your skin type and need,'' she adds. Instagram is buzzing with the masking trend with more than 8 lakh posts for #facemask. As 18-year-old beauty blogger Tania Seth finds, people are actually flaunting their face masks. “You don’t need to hide in the bathroom when you put on a mask. Masking is the new beauty statement,” she adds. 
 
 
 
 Mask bingeing is the way to keep your skin shining, says beauty blogger Deepica Mutyala. You can take your pick from sheet masks, mud masks, overnight masks, bubbling masks or splash masks. ''Beauty trends are getting personalised, so are the masks. One mask doesn’t fit all, in fact, there’s one for every occasion,'' says Mutyala. According to Transparency Market research, the sheet mask market was worth US$160.4 million in 2015 and is expected to grow to US$336.7 million by 2024. Beauty and makeup expert Aakriti Kochar attributes its success to ease of use. Even men have taken to it. ''DIY masks are less expensive and not as time consuming as a salon treatment. It comes in handy when you have a last-minute plan,'' Kochar says. Her advice: Apply it on cleansed skin, and a mist of toner or rose water before the mask works better.
 
 
 
 
 
 These are fibre sheets that are pre-cut into the shape of your face and soaked in liquid formulas.
 
 
 
 The age-old multani mitti masks are purifying and most common.
 
 
 
 If moisture is what you are after, use sleep masks, which profess to revitalise complexions while you snooze. 
 
 
 
 These actually froth and claim oxygenating benefits. 
 
 
 
 These masks contain a concentrate of antioxidants, lactic acid and glycerine. Splash on your face during shower.
 
 
 
 These masks slough away sun damage with hardcore ingredients like glycolic acid.
 
 
