Darjeeling: Nobody took any interest in the Hills polls in 2011 because it was all too apparent which way Darjeeling, Kalimpong,   and Mirik were going. Bimal Gurung had an absolute sway on Hills politics like Subash Ghising had at one point of time. But it is not going to be the same this time.   Congress is giving a run to the Hills parties in Kalimpong and Mirik and has also emerged as a force to reckon with in Darjeeling and Kurseong. 

 Right from 2012 when Mamata Banerjee brokered peace with GJM, paving the way for the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, the CM didn’t leave it to Gurung to have a monopoly over the Hills. Instead, Mamata has been frequenting the Hills, blowing hot and cold with Gurung on issues in a bid to set her footprints there. 
 
 She won hearts of a section of the Hills communities — Lepchas, Limbus, Morangs — by setting up as many as 15 development boards for them. And at Mirik, she promised land patta (land rights) to Mirik residents who had settled in areas under tea gardens. All these have helped her party to emerge as a force to reckon with that Gurung can hardly ignore. 
 
 In all these five years, Trinamool has made dents in the Hills by taking a number of administrative steps such as making Kalimpong a separate district and Mirik a sub-division. Gurung is thus walking the extra mile to revive the sentiment for a separate state when people in Mirik are caught between the statehood dream and the land rights the CM promised to them. “We want our own state. However, the fact remains that we don’t have land that we can call ours. We have to get permission from the tea garden for every work we want to take up on our land even though we pay our holding tax,” said Mirik resident Rakesh Chhetri.
 
 Similarly, Kalimpong is heading for a three-cornered fight between TMC-GNLF combine, Jana Andolan Party (JAP) and the GJM. Trinamool is here is playing the district status card. The JAP which has severed ties with the TMC is also taking credit for the district. JAP president Harka Bahadur Chhetri recently resigned as the vice-president of the North Bengal Development Council, a post considered ornamental in nature, to appease allies. “We have decided to go alone as our ideology is not on the same wave-length. As for the creation of Kalimpong district, it is there for everyone to see who has worked. We will bring in a new and better system of running the municipality if we win,” Chhetri said.
 
 Political observers believe the Bengal chief minister has played a masterstroke, at least in Kalimpong and Mirik, just ahead of the civic polls. However, Darjeeling and Kurseong still remain a difficult terrain for Trinamool. A host of Trinamool ministers led by party MP Abhishek Banerjee have been frequenting the Hills to give anti-incumbency a shape. “People now want change and development. GJM is heaped in corruption and has not worked for the people. If our party comes to power we will bring good governance and development. People have become aware of the good the Bengal chief minister is doing for them and will vote us. We will change the face of Darjeeling and provide all basic civic amenities,” said Hills Trinamool working president N.B. Khawas. 
 
 GJM, on the other hand, is trying to evoke the Hill sentiment for statehood to corner TMC and GNLF for the “great betrayal”.“The Trinamool has shown its desperation and frustration by getting state ministers to seek vote for candidates in a small election such as the one to the municipality. They (TMC) are using state machineries to crush the statehood demand. But people will vote for a separate state, for their land,” said Binay Tamang the GJM assistant general secretary.
 
 
