NEW DELHI: For the past fortnight, Delhi government’s transport department has been on a   to catch   flouting traffic rules. With a surprisingly large number of students being ferried to and from schools by   vehicles, the cops and transport officials insist that parents and schools should not be making use of these vans but hire cabs that comply with norms even if it means paying a bit more.

 According to rules, vehicles can operate as school vans only if they meet several norms, including holding a school van permit, fitness certificate, have first aid kit and fire extinguisher on board, and are fitted with a speed governor. Those who drive students are also supposed to have no history of reckless driving and should wear a uniform and badge. These rules, however, are followed by only a fraction of school vans. Even the transport department is unable to hazard a guess at how many illegal vans are running in Delhi.
 
 Operators of these cabs defend themselves by arguing that registration as school vans is a cumbersome and expensive process, forcing many to save on the cost and hassles through illegal means. As  , president of Delhi’s School Cab Association, pleaded, “There are too many formalities involved, such as police verification, getting a license and a badge and having fitness tests for CNG kit and cylinder. It also means purchasing safety equipment and install speed governors. And then the insurance for a commercial vehicle costs double that for a private one.”
 
 Given the lapses of such vans, traffic police officers have been meeting students and teachers to make them aware of the pitfalls of soliciting the use of such vehicles. “We do crack down on the violators whenever we notice them,” said  , joint commissioner, traffic. “However, a policy to regulate school vehicles must be made to ensure safety in the long run.” She said that a consolidated plan to rein in the rampant run of illegal vehicles needed to include the traffic police, transport department and the schools.
 
 A transport department official said that since many schools don’t provide transport facilities to students, parents depend on this shadowy transport system. “Parents should ensure that the school vans ferrying their children are authorised to operate as such,” he said. “It is a question of the safety of lakhs of students and schools and parents should be held responsible too.”
 
 The official also pointed out that the illegal vans were not only involved in accidents but the van drivers, most of whom were uneducated and unverified, were increasingly caught committing heinous crimes against children.
 
 Saying that his association was strongly against illegal vans plying in the city, Sharma said, “The transport department must ensure that all school vans are registered with them while the registration process should be made simpler.” He suggested that the government provide adequate time for the vans to list themselves before cracking down on violators. 
 
