BENGALURU: Potholes across the city have not only multiplied but become bigger and deeper in the wake of heavy rain in the city over the past few weeks.The potholes have rendered several roads unmotorable, leaving motorists and pedestrians vulnerable. On September 1, a 54-year-old government employee who sought to avoid a pothole in north Bengaluru was knocked down by a minitruck, necessitating the amputation of his right leg.

 Acknowledging that the lifespan of a good road is three years, the commissioner, who went on a pothole patrol in August, said that taking advantage of the brief respite last week, work on potholes had resumed. Constant rain was impeding the pace of work, which takes place mainly from 10pm to 4am, he added.
 
 "As soon as the rain stopped, we started work. There are eight hot mix plants in the city and at least wo sunny days are required or its operation. The jelly gets wet when it rains and can't be used. The jelly has to be mixed with bitumen and heated, and the mixture is poured into the pothole and rolled in," he said.
 
 Claiming that there was no single reason for the large number of potholes on city roads and their resurgence during rain, Prasad said several factors had contributed to the poor condition of roads, including record rain for August and September, old roads and constant digging up of roads for civic utility work by other agencies.
 
 "Wherever we have undertaken TenderSURE projects, or where roads have a concrete top, there are no issues of potholes. The rain, which broke all records, has affected old roads, many of which were last repaired or built many years ago. A road is good for three years, after which it becomes vulnerable.If roads are constantly being dug up to lay water lines,  , gas and sewage lines, it weak ens them. For instance, after laying water lines, the wet mix is used to repair roads which needs time to dry, or it can lead to craters," he said.
 
 According to Prasad, a permanent solution to the reappearance of potholes was white topping.
 
 "If we do that, we won't face any problems for the next 30 years. We have been allocated Rs 1,000 crore for this purpose -to cover 30km from   to Goreguntepalya to   and then KR Puram. Work should start in 15 days and we hope to complete it in the next six months. Quality work takes time. All our engineers are on the job and they need to ensure good quality materials are used, and to oversee the process properly. They also have to work with integrity," he added.
 
 The commissioner said they were hoping to implement the Mumbai method to get rid of potholes, which is to use concrete mix.
 
