JODHPUR/JAISALMER: Sleuths of CID, BI along with a team including police officers from Jodhpur, Jaisalmer asnd Barmer detained two youths late on Friday night from   ki Kothi railway station while they were about to board Thar Express. 

 The duo has been brought to Jaipur for further investigation. 
 
 Confirming this, SP of CID, BI,   said that the duo is suspected to be involved in terror activities along with sharing information across the border. The accused have been taken into custody and are undergoing interrogation. 
 
 The SP refused to comment on the recoveries made from the detainees. It is suspected that both were working as sleeper cell and possibility of their connection with a big module is also being verified.
 
 According to the IB sources, the duo was under IB radar for a long time and are believed to have passed on strategic information to their handlers in Pakistan through Thar Express.
 
 “We believe they were leaving for Pakistan with some information on the day of arrest too,” said the source.
 
 The duo are said to be residents of Jaisalmer and had been passing on various information like movement of army, timings and locations of various exercises, weapon tests, maps, etc., from border areas to their handlers in Pakistan.
 
 An official source said that the whole investigation is being supervised by DIG, IB Raghvendra Suhasa. 
 
 Sources said that the interrogation would reveal their activities in sharing information with Pakistani handlers, what all information they have shared so far, local contacts of the duo and their technique of gathering information, which might lead the investigators to any hole in the defence, etc.
 
 It is known that in November last year, Maulana Ramzan, a resident of Barmer, was caught on the charge of spying for Pakistan and on Thursday an eight-member team of special crime branch, Delhi, took him to his village. 
 
 In addition to that, four suspicious persons were arrested in Jaisalmer and Barmer districts in October last year.
 
 
