PUNE: The   (PMPML) has blamed   for  .

 “We have to properly analyse as how these incidents are taking place. On the morning of February 2, we discussed the same as well as ways to avoid such incidents with the engineers of  . However, the same day saw a bus catching fire near Chandni Chowk. Recently, we sent two of our engineers to Mumbai and they had a discussion with technicians of   (BEST) on ways to avoid and tackle these incidents. However, with such incidents continuing, we need a proper investigation,” said Sunil Burse, PMPML’s chief engineer of the PMPML.
 
 The official admitted that electrical wiring and connections in buses were a cause of worry. 
 
 “All the buses have batteries, cables as well as many wires. Almost all the incidents of fire have been due to short circuits. Some wires in the buses might get loose causing a circuit breakdown leading to a spark and then fire. Most buses have electronic circuits and control units in place now. With buses running at a decent speed, the wind also aggravates the situation causing the fire to spread quickly,” Burse added.
 
 When asked about the PMPML engineer’s interaction with their counterparts at BEST the official claimed that while they always tried and tackled such incidents, wind and changing technology were the culprits.
 
 “The fire spreads fast and wide because of the wind. Now, the concept is that of electronic technology. Also the fibre concept has taken over to balance the fuel cost. These things do have their effect. We want that things should be made in the old metallic form but we have to get accustomed to changes in technology. The advantage with the fibre concept is that the passengers face less impact than usual in case of a mishap. However, the disadvantage is that the damage to the bus in case of an accident or fire is more. The opposite happens in case of the metal body. We need to think about passenger safety first. Hence, we do have to change too,” Burse said further.
 
 PMPML sources, however, pointed out that authorities in the engineering section need to focus on maintenance. 
 
 “The buses need to be maintained properly. One of the main reasons for these mishaps is the fact that the buses aren’t properly maintained. If this is done, such cases will automatically decline. Blaming new technology, winds, and so on will not solve the problem at all,” said a senior official from the transport utility body, who requested anonymity.
 
