NAGPUR: According to the NITI Aayog’s reply to an RTI query, 80% of the citizens do not want the National Licentiate Examination (NLE), popularly referred as National Exit Test (NEXT), to replace the National Eligibility cum Entrance Examination for   (NEET- PG).

 The Centre’s had proposed to introduce NEXT for assessing the eligibility of MBBS level students. But, the move was strongly opposed by majority of aspirants.
 
 After the NDA government decided to make amendments in Indian Medical Council Act, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare prepared a draft in this regard. It needs a clearance from both houses of Parliament before being implemented.
 
 Mohamed Khader Meeran, an MBBS student from Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (MGIMS) at Sevagram had filed multiple RTI queries to various government agencies seeking reasons for introducing the NLE in  
 
 In reply, the NITI Aayog stated that it had invited suggestions by e-mail but 80% of the respondents had staunchly opposed the move. These suggestions were forwarded to the union ministry in December last year.
 
 Meeran compiled all the information received through RTI and submitted a detailed 28-page report on the draft National Medical Commission (NMC) Bill to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, finance minister   and the group of ministers (GOM). He contended that the government proposed NLE without any valid reason, study and research.
 
 “At present, MBBS students have to clear over 10 examinations to get the degree. How can one more theory exam do wonders and bring about change in quality of medicos? 
 
 “Ideally, the government should drop NLE’s idea and focus on giving hands-on training to the existing students,” he said.
 
 According to Dr Indrajit Khandekar, professor and in-charge of Clinical Forensic Medicine Unit at MGIMS, Meeran’s report highlighted existing problems in the medical education system. “Without analysing the actual problems and their root causes, solutions have been proposed in the draft Bill. Implementing NLE is an arbitrary decision. The committees have failed to address the real problems in the medical sector,” he said.
 
