KOLKATA: Aiming to recreate the BJP's stellar UP show in Bengal rural polls next year and 2019   elections, the   in the state is taking tips from their counterparts in Uttar Pradesh and has prepared a three-pronged strategy to emerge as the main contender of the ruling TMC.

 "After our massive victory in the UP, our focus will be on Bengal where the appeasement policy of the corrupt   government has reached its apogee. People are fed up with this government and are looking for a change. Law and order has completely failed in 10 districts and Bengal has become a hub of anti-nationals," BJP general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said.
 
 He said BJP is synonymous with good governance and Modi's agenda of development has been accepted by all.
 
 According to BJP sources, the party is planning to revamp the organistion in districts and frontal organisations in the next few months.
 
 Vijayvargiya's views were endorsed by the BJP state Mahila Morcha president and MP, Roopa Ganguly, who felt that Bengal was desperatly looking for a political force to counter TMC.
 
 "We may have organisational lacunae but wherever there is an incident or issue, it is the BJP which first hit the streets. Bengal is desperatly looking for a political force to counter TMC," Ganguly told PTI.
 
 BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha said since the results of UP have come out, leaders from various political parties are in touch with BJP and have expressed their wish to join the party.
 
 "For last two days we have received calls from various parties expressing a desire to join the party. The surge in UP will definitely have its ripples in Bengal," Sinha felt.
 
 Sinha, however, says that whoever wants to join BJP has to pass through the special screening committee of the party.
 
 The party has also decided to rope in intellectuals and popular faces in an attempt to build a good image of the party in the state.
 
 The party will create an army of trained workers and whole timers who could propagate about the achievements of the   government in every district of the state and expose the misrule of the TMC government. 
 
