Barcelona: Reliance   and   are working on major push of   services in rural areas of the country.

 “Samsung and Jio will go forward together. We have massive expansion projects going on, into rural areas,” said Reliance Jio’s senior vice-president of wireless networks, Tareq Amin, on the sidelines of the  .
 
 Amin said the quality will differentiate Reliance Jio and not the pricing. “Our network will deliver a superior video experience. We haven’t built another telco, but built an ecosystem,” he said.
 
 Amin said the network has been built in a way where it is easier to migrate to 5G, more seamlessly than what others would need to do. “We tried to avoid manual process, avoid manual intervention as much as possible,” he said,
 
 Jyotindra Thacker, president (technology) at Jio, said Samsung had installed over 1 lakh cell sites for the 4G operations. The Mukesh Ambani-controlled   entity has tied up with Samsung for Jio apps on Android and Tizen smartphones.
 
 “We are also ensuring that Tizen phones work on Jio network and support all our applications,” Thacker said. 
 
 He said that having a single vendor has worked well. Samsung is the only vendor for Reliance Jio’s network.
 
 “We can work as a single team. Price is never the consideration. In fact, we end up paying more since we are wedded into one company,” Thacker said. The relationship between Jio and Samsung dates back to 2012, when the two companies signed a turn-key agreement covering network, ranging from equipment to establishment and maintenance services.
 
 Samsung Electronics also unveiled its infill and growth project for Reliance Jio This joint project was established to upgrade current LTE mobile communication services across India by expanding both the current network capacity as well as network coverage.
 
 The project sets a high benchmark for LTE services in India through wider coverage, in-building penetration and the highest speeds, regardless of the user’s location.
 
 Utilizing spectrum in the 850, 1800 and 2300MHz bands, it will enable seamless indoor and outdoor coverage in dense urban areas. The project will also extend Jio’s reach in rural areas by expanding coverage to over 90% of the population.
 
 (The writer was in Barcelona at the invitation of Samsung)
 
 
