Nashik: The state government has initiated implementation of Right to Services ( ) Act under which 379 services involving 25 government departments have been brought under its purview. 

 "After Right to Information Act, the state government has now introduced the new RTS Act in order to ensure government services are rendered to citizens in a transparent, efficient and time-bound manner," chief commissioner of   told reporters on Thursday. 
 
 Kshatriya was in the city to address the participants of the commission's maiden divisional workshop in the state meant for officials from government departments and civic bodies.
 
 The workshop was attended by divisional commissioner Eknath Dawle, municipal commissioner  , senior officials from police and other departments where they were informed about the Right to Services Act.
 
 "There are still some government departments and services those are yet to be notified. And they would soon be brought under the ambit of the RTS," said Kshatriya, but avoid divulging details about the departments which are yet to be notified under the RTS.
 
 The services under RTS include giving death, birth, domicile, caste, income and other certificates and other services. Citizens may even apply for it online through the 'Aaple Sarkar' portal.
 
 "Currently, majority of the people still avail government services offline and a section of such applicants have expressed difficulties like lack of internet connectivity and problem in uploading scanned copies of the documents. We are focusing on enabling people of getting services online. Apart from portal, they may also apply online through mobile app that is available in two languages Marathi and English," said   adding, "We are planning to introduce mobile app for Right to Services in multiple languages." 
 
 According to him there will be a designated officer in each government department under RTS who will be responsible for ensuring transparent and prompt services to citizens. If the official fails in his/her duties they will be penalised Rs 5,000 or departmental enquiry would be initiated against them.
 
 "There are six revenue divisions in the state and one commissioner will soon to be appointed for each division to monitor functioning of the RTS," added Kshatriya, who retired as the chief secretary in February this year.
 
 He added that the proposal to have RTS commissioners in each of the six divisions have been sent to chief minister   for his approval.
 
 As many as 41.45 lakh people applied for various government services in   division during the financial year 2016-17. Of which, settlement of 39 lakh cases were done and remaining 1.5 lakh cases are in the process.
 
 Meanwhile, the RTS chief praised Sindkheda police station for displaying its services outside the police station under the RTS. He has asked all government departments, civic bodies to display services provided by them under the RTS on their respective premises. 
 
 
