Director Prajesh Sen’s Captain, the biopic on late footballer   that has   in the lead, has already piqued the curiosity of football fans in the State. The movie though would not only focus on the sport but also represent the people and relationships that influenced the former Indian captain.

 Of the people in his life, none played a more vital role than wife  , says the director, who has now roped in actress Anu Sithara to play the role.
 
 On choosing the   actress, Prajesh says, “Anu looks a lot similar to Anitha in her younger years, and also both of them are from Malabar. Plus, the entire story is told from her perspective. So, the heroine has a lot of importance in the story, and that’s why we took our time to select an actress who met all our criteria.”
 
 About how much Anitha’s character has influenced Sathyan’s life, the debutant filmmaker explains, “She’s a bold lady who supported him through thick and thin. Knowing that she was there was also what lent him the strength to face a lot of crisis in his life.”
  Prajesh says that the couple’s life, including what led to their marriage while Anitha was doing her post-graduation in Coimbatore, is elemental to the biopic, which will go on floors by April.
 
  Meanwhile, Anu says that she feels blessed to be part of such a big project at an early phase in her career. “I think it’s a role that could have gone to an experienced artiste. So, I am excited that they have considered me. Nevertheless, I am also tensed because it’s a performance-oriented role and I have to work hard to do justice to the character,” says the actress, who is now shooting for Ranjith Sankar’s Ramante Edenthottam.
 
  So, has she started the background work for the role? “I will be meeting Anitha ma’am once I finish shooting for my current film. I hope to spend a day or two with her to understand the character better,” she says.
 
  Captain would also mark the second time she’s teaming up with Jayasurya after Fukri and she hopes that would calm her nerves. “Jayaettan gave me a lot of tips while we did Fukri. So, I have that comfort level and can act without being nervous around him. I am also hoping that would help me in this film,” Anu says.
 
