GHAZIABAD: A man from a village in Bareilly landed up on Tuesday morning at the Chief Judicial’s Magistrate Court here and claimed he was driving the blue Audi Q7 which crashed head-on with an auto in Indirapuram minutes after Friday midnight, killing all four in the auto. The man was granted bail by the court.

 The doctor, Manish Rawat, who owns the Audi and is a neurosurgeon at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, has still not been tracked down. He did not show up after the accident, and his phone was switched off.
 
 But after Ishaak Ahmed of Labeda village in Bareilly surrendered in court claiming he was behind the wheel when the accident happened, the doctor’s name stands cleared unless new evidence crops up to suggest otherwise. But the way police have handled the case so far leaves very little chance of any evidence — like matching of fingerprints on the steering wheel to that of Ishaak Ahmed to establish if he was actually driving the car – surfacing is slim. The car was towed away and left in front of the police station with its doors unlocked, and already several curious people have opened the door to look inside, leaving behind their fingerprints.
 
 Ishaak Ahmed was booked under sections 304A (causing death by negligence), 279 (rash driving) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the IPC, all of them bailable offences, according to his lawyer Nazakat Chaudhary.
 
 “My client had on Monday submitted the surrender application in the CJM court and the court on Tuesday granted him bail since the IPC sections under which he was booked are bailable offences,” Chaudhary said. In his report, the man claimed he was working for Dr Manish Rawat, and confirmed that he was behind the steering wheel at the time of the collision, thus clearing Dr Rawat’s name in the case. 
 
 Asked if police would cross-check Ishaak’s claims by checking his phone records (which would establish where he was on the night of the accident), Indirapuram SHO Pradeep Tripathi said, “If a person has come forward to take blame, he must have thought about the consequences, hence it’s needless to find out if was he present at the location at the time of the incident or not.”
 
 On the doctor’s whereabouts, Tripathi said, “Why are you still trying to drag Dr Rawat into all this? He is not relevant for us anymore because Ahmed has already taken the blame. Hence, if the driver has come, sooner or later Dr Rawat will come back too.”
 
 However, SSP Deepak Kumar said, “This case has not been granted any closure report just because a man named Ishaak Ahmed came forward to take the blame for the accident. The chargesheet in this case will be filed after a thorough investigation of the case by tracking Ahmed’s and Rawat’s phone to identify their location on that night. Policecould not have possibly put Ahmed’s phone on surveillance because he was an unknown entity till he came forward to surrender. This case is also particularly complicated because there are no eyewitnesses.” 
 
 The Audi had crashed head-on into the auto in Indirapuram around 12.15 am on January 28. The victims were the auto driver Sanjiv (25), software engineer Rinky Yadav (38), her family friend Vishal Singh (25) and his cousin Yajuvendra (40). 
 
 
