HYDERABAD: Call it pure coincidence or divine will, ' '   is all set to pay spiritual tribute and obeisance to the  .

 Osmania University and Al-Kita, the world's first  , have turned 100. And both have been witness to the academic and spiritual development of Hyderabad in the last one century.
 
 It was   (Centre for Research and Editing of Manuscripts) that had translated and published the Holy Gita in Arabic in 1918.
 The Daira has now published a reprint of the Arabic translation of the Hindu Scripture, the second one after 1952. The Arabic translation, known as Al-Kita, (there is no 'G' sound in Arabic, and hence 'G' is written as 'K') will be one of the few rare books that will be kept on display during the   of Osmania University that begins on April 26.
 
 The Daira, though formed in 1888, long before the birth of Osmania University, was later attached to the university.
 
 The Holy Gita was translated into Arabic from Sanskrit in 1918 the year when Osmania University began its academic sessions. The birth of Osmania University, was however, announced a year before in 1917. But the classes began only in the 1918-19 academic year.
 
 The Daira took up the gigantic task of translating the Holy Gita on a request by a businessman from Kolkata. The holy book was published the same year.
 Many Arabic scholars and researchers have obtained copies of Al-Kita from the Daira. As it has run out of the copies, the Daira came out with a reprint of the Arabic Gita using modern printing technology. The earlier publications were hand composed and manually printed and bounded.
 
 Osmania University and the Arabic Gita, which are celebrating their 100th year, today stand as the symbols of mundane and divine knowledge respectively. The central government has funded the reprint project. Incidentally, all those involved in the mega task are Muslims. Al-Kita and Daira stand as the shining example of India's unity in diversity and religious tolerance.
 
 "The Arabic translation of the Holy Gita was released by Najma Heptulla last year. We have selected 10 rare books for reprint for the benefit of the present generation. The Holy Gita is one of the books. Some of the books deal with theology, astronomy, unity of God, education, patriotism, loyalty to the ruler, rights of people and Indian history," said Prof Mehjabeen Akthar, director of Dairatul Ma'arifil Osmania.
 
 It was Dairatul Ma'arifil Osmania (Centre for Research and Editing of Manuscripts) that had translated and published the Gita in Arabic in 1918. Daira has published a reprint of the Arabic translation, the second one after 1952.
 
