Nagpur: Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s ( ) social welfare department has been operating 10 women counselling centres allegedly in an illegal manner. Revealing the irregularity, the standing committee has framed new norms to run the centres.

 The committee headed by Sandip Jadhav held a meeting on Friday and approved nine proposals, including the one related to counselling centres.
 
 Jadhav told TOI that the social welfare department had committed a ‘big mistake’ but the ‘concerned officials have retired’. “The standing committee appointed NGOs to run centres in all 10 zones for one year in 2013. The social welfare department was to take fresh approvals every year. But for four years it either gave extensions or replaced NGOs on its own, and even released funds,” he said.
 
 A proposal came up now as the head of the department has changed. “NGOs will now be selected on merit. Two MSW-passed persons and one lawyer will be appointed for each centre and they will be paid Rs 9,000 each. The NGO will get Rs 1,000 per month. The department now has to compulsorily submit report of the centres every 15 days. The standing committee will henceforth take all decisions,” said Jadhav.
 
 A sub committee has been formed to select NGOs. “The committee will also monitor the running of the centres,” said Jadhav.
 
 The committee also finalized charges of Rs 15 for issuing copies of property tax assessment register prepared under re-assessment/revaluation drive. A proposal to appoint architects for the facilitation of LPG-based cremation at Mankapur and Shanti Nagar has also been approved. 
 
 The committee also gave a nod to appoint Janvi Enterprises for the construction of a new building to start the urban health centre, under the central government’s National Urban Health Mission (NUHM), at the Telangkhedi Ayurvedic Dispensary. The cost of the project is Rs 39.31 lakh.
 
 A proposal to pay an additional amount of Rs 39.90 lakh to NJS Engineers India Private Ltd, the consultant for preparing a detailed project report of Nag river pollution abatement project, was also approved. The first consultant was paid Rs 67.41 lakh. Later, the NMC increased the scope of work by adding Pili river and north sewage zone in Nag river plan due to which the additional charges have to be made.
 
 
