PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (PMRDA) will implement “no development“ zone proposal after floating the request for quotation (RFQ).
PMRDA chief   told TOI that tender finalisation has been postponed by some days and added that   Corporation (DMRC)'s proposal for stopping construction with 50m of the proposed   will be implemented after the finalisation of the tender.
 
 The DMRC in its report suggested stopping of construction and other development activities before commencement of the work for the metro. A no objection certificate will be compulsory for any construction within 50 meters of the proposed alignment and provisions for 4 FSI (floor space index) for development of properties within 500 meters along the route.
 
 Gitte said that PMRDA would abide by the report once the tenders are finalised. Ahead of the execution, notifica tion for   zone would be issued.
 
 The DPR states that the project has to be implemented through densely populated areas along highly congested routes. “In spite of all efforts taken to mitigate the inconveniences and hardships of the people, certain sensitive land acquisitions and disruptions are unavoidable. If the project has to be implemented quickly, a visible support from the government and the city corporation should be available,“ stated the report. The DPR also further states that if the project implementation is de layed, the city will become more crowded and it will be practically impossible to carry out construction activities later.Therefore, a carefully drawn out strategy for implementation of this project is necessary.
 
 It was only at the end of last year that PMRDA had taken up the second mega project --23.3 km Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar elevated metro rail project and the detailed project report (DPR) for the metro route. A RFQ for the project was sought from interested bidders. However, this has been extended. PMRDA would explore the possibility of exploring a PPP model with the help of land monetisation.
 
 Last week, after Kiran Gitte took over as PMRDA chief, he said that they had in principle got nearly 7,800 hectares of government land, which they want to make financially sustainable. With big ticket players from China, Korea, Singapore queuing up with investments proposals, a   to protect the land from encroachment has been taken up. The investments will be utilised to fund projects such as metro and ring road projects.
 
