Nagpur: The cash-strapped Nagpur University is spending, a whopping Rs3 crore on providing laptops, printers and generators to over 200 exam centres, which its own officials termed as “unnecessary expenditure”.  According to them, none of the traditional universities in state offered such largesse to the colleges acting as exam centres. They questioned on why top colleges like Shivaji Science, Dr Ambedkar, Hislop, GS, LAD, Dharampeth and others need such facilities, when they were already having that. Even Mumbai University sends question papers through e-mails, but it didn’t provide any of such facilities. They added it was their mandatory duty of colleges to provide all such facilities to examinees during exam period, as per old Maharashtra Universities Act, 1994. NU pays them with hefty remuneration for the task. The decision was taken after NU decided to send question papers through e-mail to all centres to avoid incidents of leakages due to accidental openings and also to avoid curb malpractices that earlier used to happen. However, the decision was vehemently opposed by the college managements, stating that they lacked equipment for receiving online question paper and printing them. They said it would require a big expenditure to purchase them which they can’t afford. They demanded NU to grant them special funds for the purpose to every centre. Vice chancellor SP Kane defended the NU’s decision stating that they had no other alternative after principal’s forum expressed inability to conduct the exam. “Our students would have been unnecessary suffered on account of their non-cooperation. They demanded us grants, which we denied. We told them that we will provide all three required for receiving and printing question papers. We’ve invited tenders, where we would ourselves purchase laptops, printers and generators and distribute to the colleges, which would save a lot of funds for us.” Ironically, Mahila Mahavidyalaya allegedly threatened NU administration of not conducting examinations if it fails to provide them photocopier, printer and Internet facilities. It’s principal Mrinalini Fadnavis rushed two letters in this regard after which NU decided to act tough and send their case to its Disciplinary Action Committee (DAC). The VC however admitted that big colleges in cities were already having all these equipment. “However, we can’t discriminate between urban and rural areas. We would be providing them laptops which could be used only for the exam purposes and nothing else. With advance software, we could easily get to know if it’s being misused. Significantly, we conducted entire winter exam with online question paper, without providing them any of the facility. It shows that they can do so on their own. Still, we don't want to hear any complaints from them,” Kane said.