PATNA: With three of the seven phases of Uttar Pradesh assembly election over and the focus now shifting to eastern and Bundelkhand regions, the Bihar BJP has started sending its workers to the neighbouring state to further energize the party’s campaign in the remaining constituencies. 

 “Around 20 days ago, we had received a request from UP BJP president  , requesting us to send party workers from Bihar to assist in carrying out more vigorous campaign for the BJP candidates in the fray. We started sending the contingents on Sunday. By Tuesday, we will send the last batches,” said Bihar BJP vice-president and MLC Lal Babu Prasad.
 
 The polling in western UP, Awadh and Rohilkhand comprising 209 assembly seats out of 403 in the state has already been held. Around 50% of more seats remain to witness polling over the next four phases, ending March 8. The poll results in the five states (UP, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Manipur) would be out on March 11.
 
 BJP workers, its former and present MLAs and MPs from UP border districts are being sent there. The districts concerned are West Champaran, East Champaran, Saran, Siwan, Gopalganj, Bhojpur (Ara), Buxar, Kaimur and Rohtas. The Bihar districts have cultural and linguistic (Bhojpuri) affinity with eastern UP. 
 
 Around 150 BJP workers, besides former and present party lawmakers, have been asked to report at Varanasi or Gorakhpur, depending on their choice and the demand in UP. “The top functionaries being asked to move to UP to campaign are on demand. Generally, the demand is more for the party workers,” Prasad said. 
 
 Former state BJP chief   was among the firsts from Bihar to have received the request. By now, present state president   has also left, and other senior functionaries would be sent on demand, if there is any.
 
 Asked if the party would provide money to the workers for their daily need, Prasad said, “No, given the importance the party attaches to the UP assembly election, they would be part of the campaign with their own ‘tan, man, dhan (body, heart, and money)’. They have to make their own personal arrangements for stay.” 
 
 The few party workers who were contacted appeared very excited that they had got an opportunity to be in the thick of ‘UP politics’. 
 
