Mumbai: The country’s largest digital wallet company   has said that RBI’s draft norms requiring full   on pre-paid instruments (PPIs) will make it more expensive to do business. However, the higher limits of Rs 1 lakh and proposals on interoperability is seen as recognition of wallets as a viable business.

 “The proposed norms do make the pre-paid business more expensive for stand-alone players, as KYC is now brought in par with that for bank accounts. But it also shows that   recognises pre-paid instruments as a stable, long-term business that is scalable,” said  , founder Paytm
 
 The draft norms, announced by RBI late on Tuesday, allows for PPIs to accumulate a balance up to Rs 1 lakh, bringing them almost on par with payment banks, but Sharma says that banks still have an edge. “Payment banks can issue debit cards, cheque books and provide wealth management services, which cannot be done by pre-paid issuers. Also you cannot offer interest on deposits nor can proceeds of any investment be credited to a wallet account,” he said. Paytm is one of the successful applicants for a payments bank licence and is awaiting final nod of the Central bank. Paytm claims to have over 10 crore e-wallet customers and will need to approach them for full KYC if new norms are enforced. Under present norms KYC is not required for wallets with deposits below Rs 20,000 a month.
 
 According to PayU India CEO Amrish Rau, the draft norms are a positive sign as it grants recognition to the e-wallet business. He added that the KYC norms would not be a deterrent for those looking for deeper engagement with customers.
 
 The RBI has sought comments on the proposed norms. Although some of the norms do bring   closer to payments banks, banks continue to enjoy a privileged position. For instance, only banks can issue wallets where cash is allowed to be withdrawn. Also PPIs issued by banks with an authorised dealers (forex) can be used in cross-border transactions under new norms.
 
 According to Naveen Surya, ItzCash MD and chairman of Payments Council of India, the norms provide an opportunity to grow the scope and activities of PPIs, as it enables them to receive foreign remittances, and allows customers transfer money between different operators. At the same time It also strengthens various processes and steps — like eligibility criteria in terms of capital as well as net worth (Rs 25 crore) — to protect customers and mitigate other risks. “However the fine print in terms of limits etc would need some discussion,” he said.
 
 
