BHOPAL: Facing its greatest threat, the millennia old Bhopal’s Upper Lake is in urgent need for conservation. Pollution threatens the largest manmade lake. However, going by   budget, cosmetic changes has taken precedence over conservation of water bodies in the ‘city of lakes’.

 Green activist NGT Subhash C Pandey said, “Any waterbody needs to be conserved, cleaned and beautified. Direct beautification is not a solution without conservation and cleaning. We have to save the shrinking area of the Upper Lake.”
 
 Cosmetic changes have weighed heavily over lake conservation in BMC budget as the development and maintenance of 10 lakes in the city have got ‘zero’ allocation this year. The overall budget has been slashed from Rs 13.5 crore to Rs 4.68 crore. However, cosmetic changes like installation of two fountains (one is 60 meter in length) has been taken up as a model for development.
 
 Last year, the corporation created additional funding for conservation of lakes after it received flak from the NGT in various cases. Dubbed City of Lakes, the state capital has over 18 lakes as per EPCO survey.
 
 Consolidated lake conservation fund has been slashed from Rs 3 crore to Rs 50 lakh, while funds for conservation of the Lower lake have been slashed to Rs 5 lakh from Rs 15 lakh in the last financial year. Lendiya Talab funding too has been cut to Rs 5 lakh. 
 
 Instead of conservation work that would save the lakes, BMC has focused on funds for installation of fountains. Fountains on lakes and rotaries would cost the civic body an estimated Rs 1 crore. The funds for cosmetic changes to city rotaries and water bodies maintained by the BMC too have been cut.
 
 Last year, BMC allocated Rs 5 crore for development and maintenance of Upper Lake.
 
 Mayor Alok Sharma announced that soon to be inaugurated cable stay bridge would be named after Raja Bhoj. However, millennia old Bhopal Taal or Upper Lake whose construction is credited to the legendary Raja Bhoj has mostly lost out on funds for conservation in the civic body budget. 
 
 Rs 40 crore cable stay bridge would be inaugurated in the coming weeks. Along with the inauguration, BMC plans to install a signage over the lake. ‘SMART CITY BHOPAL’. Two fountains have been proposed over the new bridge.
 
 At a time when severe shortage of water has many areas in the city face crisis, experts warn of rising pollution levels in Upper Lake. It is the primary source of drinking water for 40% population of the city. Also, known as the Bada Talab, its wetland has been annotated a Ramsar Site (Ramsar Convention is an international treaty for the conservation and wise use of wetlands).
 
 Unregulated dumping of sewage and pollutants as a result of unregulated activity has adversely affected the lake was built by Raja Bhoj, known for his works were in the area of water conservation.
 
 Undisputed presence of tourism activity has increased carbon footprint around the lake and it is affecting its biodiversity.
 
 
 
 BHOPAL: Upper Lake would not be the only water body in the state to give a space to sip a drink and eat snacks. Going by revamped BMC proposal constructing a ‘floating’ restaurant in Shahpura lake could soon become a reality.
 
 Grand plans of the BMC would cost an estimated Rs 5 crore that would include a floating restaurant, play zone and micro amusement park at the Shahpura Lake. The plans have the backing of mayor Alok Sharma. Recently, Sharma scouted the area for gauging the logistics of the proposal. 
 
 Only last year, BMC, CPA and irrigation department were criticized for lack of coordination in handling overflowing water from the Shahpura lake.
 
 Earlier a BMC action plan submitted before NGT said, the expenditure incurred would be Rs 22.59 crore. The plan includes construction and installation of a new sewage treatment plant at Ekant Park, channelization of nullahs, diversion of sewage from Manisha Market and Shahpura Chawni village, development of alternative idol immersion spot at Old Campion Ground, fencing and prevention of floating waste to nullahs, installation of hanging dustbins and dustbin containers and aeration of the lake through floating fountains.
 
