NEW DELHI: Perhaps the experience of being pampered is too alien an experience for many kanwariyas to accept with equanimity. After all, the majority of them live out the rest of the year deprived of social respect and attention. That is why the month of   (July-August) can become a trying time for people trying to cope with the  , who himself is caught up in the novelty of being treated specially by the government, police, businesses and NGOs.

  Most complaints about the annual exercise come from road users. Motorists are dismayed by the sense of entitlement that kanwariyas exhibit on the roads. “They do not follow traffic rules. They avoid using foot overbridges or zebra crossings and encroach on the road in large groups, halting traffic,” grumbled P N Singh, a traffic cop at Laxmi Nagar.
  
 Despite the authorities frequently assigning portions even on important streets for the pilgrims, they — and often their convoy of bikes, music-blaring mini-trucks and cars — take over the entire roadspace. Normal traffic has to give way, leaving commuters annoyed and chafing.
 
  The loud music favoured by the kanwariyas is another bone of contention. Bharat Singh, himself a longtime devotee, ruminated, “The yatra has certainly changed in the last decade. Earlier, it used to be quieter and more peaceful. The loud music disrupts our sleep in the camps and, of course, it must be irritating for many people. The use of music should be regulated.”
 
   , head of  , however, explained that loud music was meant to lift spirits. “Devotional songs give the kanwariyas energy and assist them in walking a few extra kilometres even when their feet are hurting,” said Goel.
 
  Many kanwariyas find themselves suddenly feted for their piety and they often get into the spirit of things, but not in a very spiritual manner. A medical assistant at a Delhi government-aided kanwariya camp in Ghazipur pointed at a man lying in a semi-conscious state near the medical stall and, rather upset, asked: “See his condition. Do you think he has the characteristics of a true devotee?” He could have said the same of some others in the camp, who were roundly mocking the intoxicated kanwariya.
 
  Honey Singh, a resident of Sector 49 in Noida, who had been on the road for 12 days, did not hide that he smoked marijuana. “It is the prasad of Lord Shiva, and it gives you the power to undertake this arduous journey on foot,” Singh asserted as his friend nodded in agreement.
 
  The trouble is when some of them begin creating trouble while high on intoxicants. It is a sensitive time when no one is ready to take on the saffron-clad marchers, not the common people, not the police. And this often leads to unsavoury scenes. Many kanwariyas, of course, follow their own behavioural code, which is civil, devotional and focused.
 
  But in the lakhs there are sometimes people who cannot come to terms with the licence they have been given. They smoke in public places where smoking is prohibited, play disturbingly loud music, aggressively take over the roads and argue — even have physical fights — with other road users. Police are vigilant along the entire kanwar route. They not only prevent non-marchers from harassing the kanwariyas, but also rein in unruly Ganga water carriers.
