HYDERABAD: It's now official.The Andhra Pradesh government, which has been portraying Amaravati as a world city of heritage and culture, has strangely not written to the Centre seeking its help in the return of Amaravati artefacts from the London Museum.

 Artefacts of Amaravati worth about `1000 crore in the antique market have been lying with the London Museum and different museums in India. But no efforts are made by the AP government to bring them back for a grand display in the upcoming capital city named after the historic village of Amaravati.
 
 Union minister of state for culture and tourism Mahesh Sharma told the Lok Sabha in a written reply to TDP member M Murali Mohan that the artefacts in London are beyond the purview of the Indian government as they were taken away from the country prior to Independence. But heritage activists argue that India should convince the UK government to return the artefacts as they are basically part of the Amaravati heritage. “The Archaeological Sur vey of India (ASI) has not received any request from Government of Andhra Pradesh to bring backreturn of the   sculptures and artefacts kept in museums in London and Chennai,“ the minister had clarified.
 
 He, however, said following a representation by Jasti Veeranjaneyulu, chairman of   , the Centre examined the matter and found that the objects were taken away prior to Independence. “They do not fall under the purview of illegal trafficking and thus it is not a violation of the Antiquities and Art Treasures Act, 1972. Hence, retrieval of these objects is beyond the purview of the ASI.
 
 Mahesh Sharma said the sculptures displayed in Egmore Museum, Chennai, are under the administrative control of the  .“Hence, the subject is beyond the purview of the  ,“ he added.
 
 Veeranjaneyulu told TOI that Amaravati sculptures and artefacts are on display in government museums in Kolkata, Delhi and Hyderabad.“They are of high antique, historical, social, educational and cultural value. They are priceless. But if their antique value were to be calculated they will command a price not less than `1000 crore. The Amaravati sculptures and artefacts are required for Amaravati if it were to attract international tourists,“ he said.
 
 He said of the 11 artefacts removed from the Buddhist site in Amaravati in 1821, nine were sent to London. In 1859 as many 121 objects were shifted to the UK
 
