AHMEDABAD: In times when the din over ' ' is getting louder, bodies of a star-crossed inter-faith couple in Amerli district were found in a forest near Liliya, less than 100 km from Gir sanctuary last December. Unfortunately, the ill-fated couple's love ended in death despite   high court's directive to the state government to ensure the girl's safety with the court itself monitoring the case. 

 The bond of love between Muslim boy   (21) and Hindu girl Sejal Shiroliya (17.5), both residents of Liliya, was met with furious hostility from both families. When they eloped the first time, an FIR was filed against Sohil for abducting a minor girl for forcible marriage. As the families settled the differences, the high court quashed criminal charges against the boy.
 
 During the quashing hearing in October last, Sejal told the HC that she was scared she will be forcibly married to a person of her family's choice. She also categorically stated she feared her life was in danger. Following this, the high court made her family members promise that they would not harm the girl and force her into marriage before she turned 18. 
 
 Skeptic about the family's behaviour, the HC also ordered police to ensure the girl's safety. It ordered that a protection officer visit the girl every week to ascertain her safety.
 
 While the HC quashed the FIR, it kept the matter pending expressing concern over safety of the girl. Justice  , who was hearing the case, asked advocate Kruti Shah to remain in touch with the girl so that the minor could confide in her. 
 
 The lawyer kept on calling the girl on daily basis to persuade her that she must not take any drastic step and once she becomes a major, she would be free to take a decision on her own. “The girl continued to say things were OK, but I got a sense that she believed that her family would not allow her to go with the boy,“ advocate Shah told TOI.
 
 The court directed Amreli SP to conduct investigation on who pressurized the couple to commit suicide.The court also told the SP to probe if it was a case of honour killing.
 
 “I am saying so because the boy was a Muslim and the girl belonged the Bharwad community. The possibility of honour killing should not be ruled out,“ the court said.
 
