COIMBATORE: This year,   Tasleema Nazrin has chosen her valentine. And it’s her favourite Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital ( ). On February 14, she will declare her love for the government hospital by cleaning and also trying to beautify it.

 Nazrin wants to send across two messages. First, the government hospital is not a detestable place. And second, transgenders are not a lesser being.
 
 Nazrin was sent away from her house in Triupur at the age of 13 when her parents came to know that she was a third gender. She spent six years in Mumbai struggling to make a living. Those days, she took to begging and prostitution. “I hated the place and I knew I was capable of much more. But nobody gave me a job. People just don’t accept us,” Nazrin said.
 
 She returned to Coimbatore at the age of 19, but could not find any work. With the help of some NGOs, Nazrin finally started a catering business and began supplying food at the government hospital. “It was then we met Nazrin and we knew that she was extremely talented,” said Anjali Ajeeth, a transgender activist.
 
 Anjali helped Nazrin get some business and supported her in all her endeavours. “Slowly, Nazrin started to focus on the service sector and began selflessly helping people at CMCH. She not only takes care of several wards, but also ensures that the hospital remains clean and tidy,” Anjali said.
 
 With the permission and support of the hospital dean, resident medical officer and assistant resident medical officer, Nazrin has changed the face of CMCH. She has personally got sponsors to change curtains at several wards, set up beds and clean the wards.
 
 On this  , she plans to spend the entire day at the hospital. City-based NGOs would join her at CMCH. “We plan to clean the hospital premises and plant saplings. We want people to come forward to pledge their organs and donate blood,” Nazrin said.
 
 On Sunday, Nazrin, along with NGOs such as RAAC, Osai and other environmentalists, cleared the construction debris and old tree roots from the hospital premises. “We want more people to take part in the cleanliness drive on Tuesday so that people get to see the good work Nazrin has been doing for the hospital,” Anjali said.
 
 
