CHANDIGARH: Following in the footsteps of generous and selfless families of cadaver donors, four more braveheart families showcased exemplary spirit when they consented to donate organs of their loved ones during last four days here in PGI.

 This gesture helped save the lives of nine critically ill patients and enabled four visually impaired people have their eye-sight restored.
 
 Shivani, 20, from Saharanpur, Uttar Pradesh, who was married recently, fell from the pillion seat while going on a bike with her husband to her parents’ place and sustained fatal head injury on January 31. After initial treatment at a local hospital, Shivani was rushed to PGI on February 1. Shivani was declared brain dead on February 3. Following the consent of her family, Shivani was able to save three lives with the transplantation of her retrieved liver and kidneys and enabled two to see again with the donation of her cornea.
 
 Devender, 21, from Bilaspur, Himachal Pradesh, fell from his bike after being hit by a bus. Admitted to PGI on January 30, Devender was declared brain dead on February 2. His family consented for  , saving the lives of two terminally ill patients suffering from kidney ailment. The grief–stricken uncle of Devender, Shamsher Singh, said, “With all the formalities complete, Devender was to leave for abroad in April.”
 
 Another hapless and helpless victim of merciless hit-and-run was Sudhir Kumar, 40, from Dadumajra Colony, Chandigarh. Although the family rushed him to PGI without losing any time,   succumbed to his injuries and was declared brain dead on February 4. ROTTO PGIM approached NOTTO and accordingly with NOTTO’s intervention, the retrieved kidneys of Sudhir Kumar were allocated for two critical patients at Safdarjung Hospital, New Delhi. The team from Safdarjung Hospital was handed over the retrieved organs, for which the transplantation took place in Safdarjung Hospital, New Delhi, on Sunday.
 
 A pall of gloom descended at the house of Sourabh, 18, from Naraingarh in Haryana as the family not only lost their eldest son but also the bread earner when Sourabh’s bike was hit by a HRTC bus. Sourabh was declared brain-dead on February 4. Sourabh’s mother consented to donate his organs to save other mothers from facing this tragedy. The retrieved kidneys of Sourabh gave life to two patients and cornea will enable another two to have the gift of sight.
 
 Dr  , nodal officer, ROTTO, PGI, stated, “There cannot be anything more heroic than saving a life. Cadaver donors and their families are truly a blessing. All the four   families are not only from four different states but also diverse culturally. But what unites them all is their ‘spirit of giving’ and their generosity without barriers, without bounds. “
 
 Dr Koushal added, “There is another aspect to cadaver donation which generally goes unnoticed and unsung. After the family’s consent, it is the PGI team involved in the entire process right from critical care to neuro surgeons and transplant surgeons, from residents, anesthetists and intensivists, to transplant coordinators and diagnostic support that work together 24X7 tirelessly and quietly translating the donor family’s wish to ‘save lives’ into actually ‘saving lives’.”
 
