NAGPUR: Experts feel that there is need to modify the education system to make the medical profession noble again. They were speaking during a panel discussion on the topic ‘Aapan upchare toshave’ and ‘Nate Vishwasache’ at Kalidas Hall of Persistent Systems, It Park. The event was organized by Abhivyakti Vaidarbhiya Lekhika Santha, Shembekar Hospital and   on Sunday.

 “Today a doctor spends Rs2 crore on his education. As soon as he comes out of college, he wants to earn the money back. If a doctor considers his job as business, this profession will not remain noble. The education system in India must be modified to make medical profession noble again,” said Dr Lokendra Singh.
 
 “The doctors in our society are considered either as deities or as demons, but not humans. The society expects them to do well but if they fail some time, they are subjected to mutilation. It is the responsibility of the older generation to socially educate the younger generation the values of Indian culture,” he added.
 
 Talking about the doctor-patient relation, advocate  , another panellist, said, “In earlier days, the barter transactions use to take place between patients and doctors, which use to satisfy both the parties. But now, a competition is going on in every profession and everybody wants to become first. This puts the idea of satisfaction behind and no guarantee can be provided that the doctor will follow all the ethics of his profession. We criticize doctors for expensive treatment, but even they have to look after the hospital expenses,” she added.
 
 Explaining the situation of doctors another panellist Dr. Pragya Apte said, “A doctor spends 12 years of his life learning with full dedication without any entertainment. A patient can get emergency once but a doctor faces emergencies daily.”
 
 Another panellist Dr.   said, “The day medical profession came under Consumer Protection Act, it did not remain noble. In times of complication, a patient’s family blames a doctor but they do not understand his situation. He loses his confidence, suffers from depression and many times suicidal tendency can also be seen in them. A doctor is the second victim in any unfortunate incident.” Milind Apte and Dr.   were the other panellist at the event. Kanchan Gadkari was the chief guest at the programme. 
 
