HUBBALLI: The soaring   in   has led to an increase in the number of cases of   suffering with acute   in   which has recorded a temperature of as high as 43 degrees Celsius in the past few days.

  and   have also recorded temperatures ranging from 41 degrees Celsius to 43 degrees Celsius in the past few days, but no case of a newborn suffering from dehydration has been reported so far. Last year, when the temperature in Raichur had touched 44 degrees Celsius, several cases of newborns suffering from dehydration were reported.
 
 Newborns aged between 0 to 6 months are suffering from acute dehydration problem and many have been admitted for treatment to  , the only big government hospital in Ballari. No deaths have been reported so far but in lack of proper treatment dehaydration may lead to serious health complications including kidney failure in the newborns, said a source.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Dr Laxminarayan Reddy, HoD, paediatrics at  , said, “The rising temperature is causing dehydration in newborns and we have already treated more than 80 of them. Nearly 12 babies suffering with dehydration were admitted to the hospital on Wednesday.”
 
 “We are not discharging mothers immediately after the delivery. They are being kept at the hospital for another 3-4 days to increase their milk production for breastfeeding. They have been told to breastfeed that helps increase fluid content in their kids. Breastfeeding is the best solution to fight dehydration,” Dr Reddy said.
 
 “Fluid content in newborns fall with rising heat, leading to dehydration. We have suggested mothers to drink lots of water and butter milk. If a baby cries continuously, he or she should be immediately rushed to a hospital,” he added.
 
 Mercury level in Rachur has also been on the rise in the past few days. Dr Nagaraj Javali, HoD, paediatrics at RIMS, Raichur, said, “There hasn’t been a single case of dehydration in a newborn so far. Fluid in newborns sharply plummets in high heat, gradually leading to fever, and that’s when babies cry inconsolably, resulting in dehydration in them. If neglected, it can lead to severe health complications including kidney failure.”
 
 “We have taken all necessary precautions this year after such cases were reported in 2016. Mothers must feed their newborns properly and observe they pass urine at least 6 to 8 times. People living in houses with tin sheds should cover the roof with grass. Normally, temperature ranging from 35 degrees Celsius to 37 degrees Celsius is okay for babies but anything beyond 40 degrees Celsius can pose problems,” he said.
 
 
