BHOPAL: Two years on, CBI that took over investigations into the Vyapam scam has failed to make any significant headway, feel the complainants.

 When Central Bureau of Investigation took over the Vyapam scam from   on July 13, 2015, opposition and scam whistle-blowers had expected swift action from the agency. Initially, a 40-member team was formed by CBI director.
 
 “The agency has spent more than Rs 150 cr on 400 officials in the last two years, but in vein,” said former MLA Paras Sakhlecha. “126 key accused have got bails while around 1,000 are still on the run. They have not been able to charge-sheet even in 25% cases,” he added.
 
 Madhya Pradesh STF was probing the cases under day-to-day monitoring by the MP high court-appointed Special Investigating Team before CBI was asked to step in following a huge public and political outcry over several deaths of people linked to the scam, some of them unexplained.
 
 Congress, which led the opposition attack on the state's BJP government led by three-term chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, had claimed 49 people associated with Vyapam in some way have died under mysterious circumstances. CBI’s findings in most of the cases contradicts it.
 
 The STF under IPS officer Sudhir Sahi was probing the case since August 2013. In November 2014, the   constituted a Special Investigation Team (SIT) under the chairmanship of former high court judge Chandresh Bhushan to supervise the investigation.
 
 Later, Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice HL Dattu had on July 9, 2015 transferred the probe of all Vyapam cases, including the related deaths, to CBI, which was directed to take over the probe.
 
 The premier investigative agency was asked to file its report to the apex court on July 24, 2015 when it is likely to take a call on monitoring the investigation as demanded by some petitioners including Congress general secretary Digvijaya Singh.
 
 The scam involves professionals, high-profile politicians and bureaucrats with hundreds of people including aspirants and their parents in jail. Former MP education minister Laxmikant Sharma and several top bureaucrats were also behind bars.
 
 After hitting an ice berg even six months after taking over investigations into Vyapam scam, CBI had asked officials to express willingness to set up a ‘special branch’ in Bhopal.
 
 With the probe drifting and sleuths losing interest, most of the CBI officials want to go back to their parent posting, said sources. Many of them believed it would take two decades to get to the bottom of India’s biggest recruitment scam.
 
 After taking over investigations from STF in July, CBI in its first status report had proposed setting up a special zone and sought a manpower of 500. This is the first-ever scam in which CBI had to consider setting up a special zone."Colossal task of investigating 107 cases of corruption and nearly 50 cases of suspected deaths related to Vyapam with more than 2,000 accused cannot be done with existing manpower and infrastructure," stated CBI status report before Supreme Court on September 10, 2015.
 
 CBI sought sanction of 496 posts, including 108 constables, 36 head constables, 18 assistant sub-inspectors, 36 inspectors, 63 inspectors, 18 DSPs, 9 ASPs, 9 SPs and three DIGs.
 
 The only notable action on September 24, 2015 when CBI raided 40 premises in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. However, nothing substantial was found. Officers from central excise and customs, income tax and nationalized banks had to be included in raid team to meet staff crunch. Even whistle-blowers who had been pitching for CBI inquiry are left disappointed.
 
