The   incidents in Bengaluru have raised alerts on multiple levels. While the intensity of the extensively reported alleged 'mass  ' case on MG Road is being looked at from different perspectives now, the CCTV footage of a girl being groped by two men in a not-so-deserted lane in   the same night puts the focus back on an increasing lack of women's safety in Bengaluru, which, until now, has been largely acknowledged as a safer city for the daughters of the country. Looking beyond the measures that are currently being taken to bring the offenders to book, we speak to people who live in the residential neighbourhood to understand what more, according to them, should be done to ensure that every individual can move about freely at any point of the day… 

 
 
 Archana G, who has been living in the neighbourhood for the past several years, says, “Although incidents of eve-teasing and comment-passing are commonly heard of in Kammanahalli and neighbouring localities such as Chelekere, Babusapalya and Hennur, the molestation video that surfaced recently was quite shocking. From a laid-back area on the outskirts of the city to a bustling residential and retail hub, Kammanahalli has come a long way in a short period of time. There has been a huge influx of foreign students, who are seen in flocks in different pockets of the neighbourhood. Of course, there are concerns over how they dress while on the streets, but that can never justify such a horrific incident. Keeping in mind that the number of miscreants have also increased over the years, more cops and Hoysala patrols should be deployed here, especially during the festive season, to avert untoward situations.”
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Meghali Bannerjee, who stays in a rented apartment in the area, says, “The video clip was quite disturbing. In today's times, no place is safe — be it Bengaluru or New York. Every girl has to take her own safety measures, there is no solution to such problems. You cannot change a mass mindset that blames the girl every time for dressing inappropriately. Take this case, for instance, the girl might have been returning home from the hospital or a family function, how would one have addressed the situation then. It is so tough for non-localites to get a house on rent in a good locality in the city. Landlords still prefer families to a single man or woman.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 “It is really sad how the New Year Eve's incidents have completely tarnished the image of Bengaluru, almost overnight. That this city is safer for women compared to a number of other places in India is an important acknowledgement, and, as citizens, we need to safeguard that reputation. We definitely need more security squads in residential neighbourhoods, particularly in Kammanahalli, the number of which seems to have dwindled over the past few years,” says a landlord, who has rented out an apartment to someone who from is outside the state.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Sexual attacks and violence against women in context of New Year celebrations here in Bengaluru are being covered strongly by the mainstream and alternative media. Good. Shedding light on such inhuman actions and the discussions that follow are necessary steps in tackling gender violence and making Bengaluru the safe haven it should be. Here are some measures I feel should be taken to create a safer Bengaluru for all our citizens:
 
 1. Women's safety cannot be addressed only on New Year's Eve and that too with a one-time, quantitative solution such as increased police presence. Instead, systematic, qualitative solutions that take care of women and marginalized genders must be adopted by our government on a day-to-day basis. We need ideas from gender specialists who take substantive theories and case-study practices from across the globe into account.
 
 2. Night life must be opened up completely. Whether we as individuals take part in the night life or not may not be relevant — we must support others' right to engage so. We need city hours to be pushed to morning time so that women who take part in the night life a cosmopolitan city like Bengaluru provides can find safety indoors instead of travelling at night-time amidst desolate streets. Also, if we increase the working hours, street vendors/general public/etc., can more freely roam in the streets at night. 
 
  3. Cinema reform: We, in the Kannada Film Industry, are currently in the process of working on ways the film industry can help in creating a gender-equal and safer Karnataka. With writers at the helm, we can theoretically expect more responsible films, which will have a positive impact on the way women in society are viewed and treated. Sexual harassment in workplaces must be simultaneously addressed and corrected.
 
  4. Police reform: We have been fighting for this for several years now and will continue to do so until it is achieved to a satisfactory level. Gender-sensitive training along with a series of non-violent, respect-based training methods for police is a must. Also, statistics show that women in positions of power are less violent, less corrupt, and more considerate towards weaker sections of society. Hence, more women in positions of police power are a must for creating a gender-equal society.
 
  
  5. Politicians such as our Home Minister and others who make anti-equality, insensitive statements must be held accountable. This is not the first time the Home Minister is making such irresponsible statements. Some time back, he had victim-blamed a woman tennis player who had been raped by two guards asking why she was there at that time. Even the former Home Minister had made anti-equality statement(s) in the past regarding women. Any and all politicians/leaders who partake in strengthening an already-patriarchal system instead of working on ways to improve the lives of the marginalized must be called out by the public and held accountable.
 
  6. We must not seek to place more restraints on women and their physicality; instead, men must be taught how to behave giving women respect and treating them as equals. This can start from men fixing their gaze, thoughts, words, and actions towards women.
 
  7. Technology: CCTV cameras have been effective in capturing incidents of sexual violence against women. We must see how technology can be incorporated in ensuring safety without invading our private spaces and making our society and government an intrusive, privacy-removing institution. There must be a balance.
 
  8. Fast-track courts: Sexual violence against women and children if found to be true must be taken seriously and punishment meted out accordingly.
 
 
 
 This initiative, by an autonomous group Night in My Shining Armour, intends to get more people out on the streets and remove the stigma attached to women being outside their homes after 8 pm. The first event is a Night Out In Town, in which participants will convene at Brigade Road on Saturday at 8 pm on January 7 and proceed to walk down the stretch of Brigade Road is an attempt to take back our nights.
 
 
 All 11 am on January 7, citizens have planned to form a human chain at the front of the gate of Vidhana Soudha/ Karnataka High Court. But, instead of shouting slogans in anger, the people want their silence to be heard, and with a sense of united anonymity. This is to highlight the voice of every woman who has felt unsafe on the streets of her own city.
 
  
  
 
