Actor Nidhi Uttam’s (of ' ' fame) visit to her hometown Kanpur was an exciting and fulfilling one. After wrapping up the shoot of the show 'Ek Tha Raja Ek Thi Rani', Nidhi headed straight to her home to meet her grandparents and spend some quality time with her school friends. "I had last come home in September last year. Tab se main kaam mein hi busy thi," said Nidhi when we met her while she was visiting her school. 
"This time I had enough time at hand so I planned this trip to Kanpur. Also, my grandfather,   was unwell for quite some time and I really wanted to meet him, so I went to our ancestral village in Selavan in Fatehpur district, to meet him too. Itne dino baad gaon jaa kar ek alag sa sakoon ka ehsaas hua mujhe. Har taraf hariyali thi aur ek shanti thi jo shehron main nahi milti. Mumbai main toh life daudti rehti hai sukoon ke pal toh milte hi nahi hain. Mujhe laga jaise mein apne bachpan mein wapas aa gayi hoon," added Nidhi who also visited the fields her family owns at the village and also drove the tractor in the fields. "My grandmother was so happy to meet me after so many months ki unhone mere liye mere favourite laddoo banaye," said Nidhi.
  
  Nidhi surrounded by students of her alma mater during her recent visit there (BCCL)
 
 Revisiting her childhood, Nidhi also decided to make a quick trip to her school   in Kanpur this time. "For quite some time I had been wanting to visit my school but time hi nahi mil pata tha. During this four-day visit, I said ki iss baar toh school jaana hi hai," said Nidhi adding, "I had thought I'll be able to meet the teachers who had taught me but when I went to school, I was told that most of the staff at school has changed. However, I was lucky enough to meet my chemistry teacher  . She was really happy to see me after such a long time," she said.
 Nidhi adds, "I was a good athlete and the sports captain in school so also went to see the basketball court and sports field." The students at the school were also excited to see a TV actor amidst them and most girls crowded around Nidhi for selfies and autographs. Later, Nidhi also met up with her school friends at a restaurant. "I had been in touch with my friends on Facebook but hadn't been able to meet most of them. So iss baar humne reunion bhi plan kiya. I met my school besties Mariam, Anshika, Charu, jaya, Smita and Preeti, who are still in Kanpur. It was such fun meeting all of them. We were all chatting the entire time," said Nidhi, who will now also be seen in a film titled 'Nanhe Einstein'. "This film is a kid’s movie which has Suniel Shetty in lead. I am playing the role of a school principle in the movie. Earlier Amitabh Bachchan ji was supposed to play the role that Suniel Shetty will now be essaying," says Nidhi. 
 
  
  Nidhi driving a tractor in her village
 
 
