CHENNAI: The   police have found a Kerala connection while tracking the money trail in the election commission bribery case involving AIADMK (Amma) deputy general secretary T T V Dhinakaran.

 Sleuths following the cash route say it originated from Chennai and went to Delhi via Kochi. The investigators came to the conclusion after conducting a three-day probe in the city.
 
 The Delhi police have now summoned at least a dozen people, including Dhinakaran’s relative Mohanarangan and a lawyer, Gopinath, among others, to appear before investigating officers in Delhi for further questioning.
 
 Hawala dealers operating from Chennai, Kochi and Delhi helped Dhinakaran by transferring the money to   Chandrasekar, who is charged with claiming that he could bribe an election commission official to defreeze the two-leaves symbol and help in its allotment to the AIADMK (Amma) faction, an investigating officer said.
 
 Police sources said the Delhi police team probing the case believe that the accused intended to channel the bribe of Rs10 crore to Sukesh through hawala agents in Chennai, Kochi and Delhi.
 
 The team that arrived in Chennai searched for an agent, Narendra Jain, of Sowcarpet, who they had linked to the transactions. However, they had to return on Saturday without questioning Jain, having failed to locate him.
 
 “We will get more information about the racket after nabbing the hawala agent Jain,” the investigating officer said.
 
 The police team that tracked the money trail said they discovered that Dhinakaran’s associates moved the cash through agents in Chennai to a contact in Kochi, who forwarded it to another agent, Naresh, in Delhi.
 
 Sources said the special team from Delhi Central Crime Branch, led by assistant commissioner of police Sanjay Sehrawat, issued fresh summons to Mohanarangam, lawyer Gopinath and about a dozen other suspects in Chennai and Kochi and these included some hawala racketeers.
 
 The Enforcement Directorate on Tuesday stepped into the case and registered a fresh case against Dhinakaran.
 
 The Delhi police arrested Sukesh and seized Rs1.30 crore from his him on April 16. They arrested Dhinakaran on April 25 after three days of questioning and took into custody a hawala agent on April 27 for the alleged attempt to bribe an election commission official in Delhi. All the arrested suspects are in Block No. 7 in Tihar Jail.
 
 
