CHANDIGARH: While an special audit report of the accounts of prestigious Moti Lal Nehru National   School (MNSS) at Rai in Sonipat had pointed at fraudulent payments and misappropriation of funds in various purchases, the school administration has termed the findings as ‘twisted’ and ‘premeditated vindictive exercise’ by the finance department to malign the sports department. Captain   heads the finance department, while Vij has the sports portfolio.

 Sources confirmed to TOI that in a communication sent to the state government on the ‘bias’ of the finance department, the school administration has alleged that incorrect and distorted facts have been published by the finance department. The administration has accused the finance department of leaking the report in media to tarnish the image of the sports schools and the department in the public.
 
 The school has sent a point-wise reply to the findings given by the audit report.
 
 Regarding non-distribution of books purchased for Class VII to XII for the academic session 2016-17 to the students till January 31, 2017, the school has claimed in its reply that audit findings were surprising because the concerned employees of the school had intimated the audit team that books had been distributed.
 
 They were also told about the maintenance of a separate record of issued books as per school record but still the audit team has not mentioned the same in the audit report and the para has been drafted by manipulating the fact to defame the school, claims the school.
 
 About the charges of payment of Rs 70 for a cup of tea mentioned in the report, the school administration has claimed that as per the record it was not the bill for one cup of tea. At an event in sports festival, where the arrangements of high tea was done, having menu of sandwich, dhokla, cold drink, Gulab Jamun, Jalebi, ice-cream and tea, the letter sent to the government says.
 
 On the charges of purchasing sports items despite the availability of such items already in the record, the school has claimed that all such purchases were made keeping in trend and demand of previous years and there was nothing objectionable in it.
 
 The school authorities had tried its best to make available all the necessary sports equipment for students to uplift the school’s standard, says the reply.
 
 Senior IPS officer and director of the school  , however, refused to comment on the issue and said that school would appropriately inform the state government about it.
 
 A special audit carried by the director local audit   on the directions of state finance department had scrutinized school’s account from April 1, 2015, to January 1, 2017. The audit report had claimed to have found embezzlement, fraudulent payments and misappropriation of funds in the purchase of sports material, furniture and other items in the school.
 
 The controversy has already triggered a war of words between two senior Haryana ministers —Vij and Abhimanyu. Vij has even openly questioned the finance department for interfering in the affairs of the school which comes under his department.
 
 In a strongly-worded letter, forwarded to the CM's office on February 22, 2017, Vij had even sought a “high-level inquiry into the interference of unconcerned ministry into his department”.
 
