VADODARA: The city police was left in an embarassing situation when a rapist and another murderer escaped from the toilet of SSG Hospital’s prison ward on Tuesday. 

 A head constable and constable who were holding charge in the ward were arrested for negligence in duty.
 
 Raju Ninama, resident of Kharoda village in Dahod, was serving a seven years’ imprisonment sentence in a rape case, while Sabur Damor of Garbada was sentenced to life imprisonment in connection with rape with murder case of Dahod. Police said that Damor was a patient of tuberculosis and his condition was quite serious. On February 2, the doctor at   had asked the authorities to call his family members as his chances of surviving were slim.
 
 On February 7, Damor was rushed to the hospital after he tried to commit suicide by consuming overdose of tuberculosis medicines. Ninama too was taken to the hospital after he complained of nausea. A police official said that Ninama was often going to the toilet on Monday night and therefore the police constable left the toilet door unlocked for him.
 
 In the early morning, when both constables –   and   – dozed off, Ninama and Damor went to the toilet, cut the iron bars of its window with a sharp weapon and escaped. When Parmar and Patil woke up at around 5 am, the duo were missing from the ward.
 
 Parmar informed Raopura police about the duo’s elopement after which the police searched the premises of SSG Hospital. The dog squad and forensic experts also visited the hospital for investigations. The police found a shawl and a sharp weapon outside the window of toilet from where Ninama and Damor escaped. There were other two prisoners too in the same ward but they did not realize when the two escaped as they were asleep, the police said.
 
 “We have arrested Parmar and Patil for negligence of duty and have sent a team of cops to the villages of Damor and Ninama. Ninama had escaped from jail as under trial in the past too so it could be a possibility that he took Damor along with him,” said Raopura police inspector  , who is investigating the case.
 
 Cops said that they will also investigate how Ninama and Damor were able to get the sharp weapon inside the prison to cut the iron bars.
 
