Lucknow: On May 20 last year, days before Rajya Sabha and   elections, BSP chief   had called an emergency meeting of all her party MLAs in Delhi. Almost all 80 BSP legislators attended. After a brief exchange of greetings at a meeting hall, Mayawati promised a ticket to all MLAs in the   and said: “Our party is way ahead of others and you should all start working in your constituencies with all your might.” 

 And only 21 days later, on June 11, BSP managed to get its three candidates elected to UP legislative council, despite falling short of the requisite number. Election of the party’s two candidates for RS was much easier given the party’s strength in the UP assembly. Obviously, her promise of a ticket to all her MLAs was to keep the flock together ahead of the crucial RS and council polls.
 
 Cut to January 8, when Mayawati released her fourth list of party candidates. Out of the 80 BSP MLAs, 22 have been denied a ticket. The turn of events, party insiders said, started after Mayawati’s confidante and senior BSP leader Swami Prasad Maurya raised an open revolt accusing the BSP boss of selling tickets. Within months, 10 more BSP MLAs turned rebel and switched side, mainly towards BJP. That Mayawati had to replace the 11 defected legislators is understandable, it is the denial of tickets to 10 other loyal MLAs, which has come as a surprise to many.
 
 What compelled Mayawati to replace even those 10 ‘loyal’ candidates who won a seat despite the tide being against BSP in 2012? “Winnability of a candidate is key factor in elections,” said political commentator J P Shukla, adding, “Political party’s choice of a candidates depends mainly on a changed political scenario. In UP, that scenario is essentially driven by caste factor even though personal reputation of a candidate in his/her constituency does hold considerable significance.” 
 
 Take, for example, the case of Hem Lata Chaudhary, a Jat, from Baghpat assembly constituency. She has been denied a ticket, while Mayawati is fielding a Muslim, Ahmad Hamid in her place. Hem Lata may not, however, hold grudge, for her husband and former BSP MLA, Prashant Chaudhary has been given a ticket from Garhmukteshwar in Hapur district.
 
 The case is somewhat different in assembly constituencies like Najibabad, where a Muslim party MLA, Tasleen has been replaced by another Muslim candidate, Jamil Ahmad Ansari. Or, the case of Lalitpur where OBC MLA Ramesh Kushwaha has been replaced by another candidate from the same community, Santosh Kushwaha. “There is bound to be anti-incumbency against a sitting MLA. That needs to be addressed,” said a senior BSP functionary.
 
 In the case of constituencies where she faced revolt, Mayawati has adopted a different strategy. In Mohammadi, where BSP MLA Bala Awasthi revolted and switched over to BJP, Mayawati played the minority card by fielding a Muslim, Dawood Ahmad. “In doing so, she has managed to place herself squarely against the BJP and would attempt to consolidate Muslim and the Dalits,” said a political expert. So is the case with Padrauna assembly constituency represented by Swami Prasad Maurya, who is now with the BJP. Here too, Mayawati is fielding a Muslim, Javed Iqbal.
 
 A similar strategy has been adopted in Mallawan in Hardoi district where BSP MLA Brijesh Kumar, an OBC, switched to BJP. In his place, Mayawati has decided to field a Bramin candidate, Anurag Mishra to make up for the lost OBC vote bank. BSP sources said the same constituency was being eyed by former BSP MP Brijesh Pathak who, too, is now in the BJP camp.
 
 MLAs Who Defected (12)
 
 ---------------------------
 
 Swami Prasad Maurya (Padrauna)
 
 Om Kumar (Nahtaur)
 
 Roshan Lal Verma (Tilhar)
 
 Harvinder Sahni (Palia)
 
 Bala Prasad Awasthi (Mohammadi)
 
 Rajani Tewari (Sawayajpur)
 
 Brijesh Kumar (Mallawan)
 
 Ayodhya Pal (Ayah Shah)
 
 Rajesh Tripathi (Chillupar)
 
 Dharam Singh Saini (Behat)
 
 Mahaveer Rana (Nakur)
 
 Chhotey Lal Verma (Fatehabad)
 
 MLAs Denied Ticket (10)
 
 ----------------------------------
 
 Hemlata Chaudhary (Baghpat)
 
 Gendalal Chaudhary (Hathras)
 
 Mamtesh (Amanpur)
 
 Tasleen (Najibabad)
 
 Indrapal Singh (Sikandra)
 
 Sant Ram (Madhogarh)
 
 Ramesh Prasad Kushwaha (Lalitpur)
 
 Raj Narain (Mahoba)
 
 Babban (Mughal Sarai) 
 
 
