Chirpy, cheerful and confident,   is exactly like the characters she has enacted in the funny videos that pop up all over our social media pages. She radiates happiness as she plays with her corkscrew hair, which has now become her identity. The 24-year-old internet sensation is in Kochi now for the shoot of  's Bollywood debut Karwaan, directed by Akarsh Khurana. In the film, she shares screen space with Irrfan Khan as well as the Charlie actor. Mithila narrates her journey to Bollywood from a ‘protective’ middle-class Marathi family who initially said a strict ‘no’ to her entering the entertainment industry.

 
 
 
 Oh, very well! It’s beautiful and green wherever you go. The weather reminds me of Mumbai, my land, but this is a real escape from the city. The food is amazing and I am eating a lot nowadays (laughs). I had sadya for the first time the other day and it was the yummiest vegetarian platter I have ever had. I also loved the fish prepared in banana leaf (meen pollichathu) and fish mango curry. I always wanted to try Kerala porotta and I did it this time.
 
 
 
 
 It is amazing to work with Irrfan sir and Dulquer. Both of them know their craft well and are extremely gifted artistes. I am a fan of both. I have watched Dulquer’s works like OK Kanmani, Bangalore Days and am now watching Ustad Hotel. He is cool on camera and that makes it easy to work with him. When Irrfan sir is shooting, all I want to do is just watch him. He is a work of art by himself.
 
 Since I am working with such debonair artistes, the experience is really enriching. I feel like a child thrown into something she is passionate about. I am constantly trying to figure out things! 
 
 
 
 
 Yes, (laughs) I am the child and the troublemaker on the set so I am really exploiting the situation! I know Akarsh Khurana through theatre and he is an amazing person. Also, neither Irrfan sir nor Dulquer are intimidating people. So at some level we are all friends. We always have some lunch time conversations where Irrfan sir shares his experiences. Above all, they both speak two different languages that I am new to — Urdu and Malayalam. I am learning a few words from them.
 I am the kind who clicks pictures of everything and everyone. The first time I caught both of them off-guard. I just took out my camera and told them, ‘Hey guys, I am taking a picture!’
 
 
 
 
 My tryst with the internet started with the web comedy show called News Darshan, something like what John Olivar does, and it really worked. The web platform which broadcasted it and I share a symbiotic relationship as we both started exploring the internet together two years ago. At that point, we thought internet was only for music videos and comedy skits; web shows and web series hadn’t picked up like now.
 
 After News Darshan, we came up with a sketch called Confusing Things Girlfriends Say which went viral. A counter sketch called Annoying Things Boyfriends Do followed. And in between my ‘cup song’ went viral. I never thought the internet would take it up like this and it gave me visibility. I also did The Girl In The City, Official Chukyagiri and Little Things.
 
 The internet audience is spread out across the world. And it is the easiest medium ever — one video and you reach out to a million people. It is really gratifying to receive emails from places like Italy, LA and Kuwait. Even in Kerala, I found a few who recognised me. With the internet, the barrier between you and the audience has broken. It works like theatre for me-there is constant interaction between the actor and the viewer. 
 
 
 
 Actually in hindsight, my first stage experience was when I was 12 years old, for a theatre company. That was my moment of epiphany when I knew that this is what I wanted to do. But I kept running away from it as I come from a middle-class Marathi family. I stay with my grandparents who were not really happy about me being part of the entertainment industry, though I was always the entertainer at home. Pursue it as a hobby, they said finally.
 
 However, now I am really happy to see the transformation in my grandfather. He has learnt to use a smartphone and access the internet, just to watch my videos. It is extremely heartwarming. He is protective, but he was also empowering as he wanted me to do what I love. 
 
 
 
 I multitask. I love dancing and music. I am a third year Kathak dancer, hopefully I can include it in some of my projects. I learnt music as a child but had to leave it behind, what with tuitions and studies. But I have taken it along with me and I’m always singing — be it on the set or on a break. Irrfan sir calls me Bina Ka Geethmala and Dulquer calls me jukebox. I love to sing and it defines me a lot.
 
 But theatre is my first love and it will always be. Sadly, I have not done much in theatre but I will always try to go back to it. Cinema is new to me while internet is home. I am now trying to fiddle with heart, home, love and so on.
 
 
 
 I think we have overcome that to a large degree. In fact, I think now it is considered as a proper career option and a lot of people are being supportive of it. Girls have become bold, confident and they know the importance of believing in themselves. If you don’t believe in yourself, nobody will. If you are true to yourself and you know what you are doing, it doesn’t matter what others say or think. Nothing can deter your spirit if you are passionate about your dream. Explore, experiment and enjoy. It is okay to be confused. Stop worrying about society. 
 
 
