Say these Malayali women travellers, whose virtual campaign has now been picked up by men as well

 When was the last time you saw a woman having a cup of midnight tea from a local tea stall? Or travelling alone in Kerala? Probably never. A change in this situation is what the virtual campaign, Women’s Own Kerala, hopes to achieve. “Avarudethu koodiyanu ee bhoomi, aakasham, rathrikal, nakshatrangal, yathrakal…” says the campaign, which attempts to provide freedom and independence to women travellers in Kerala. The campaign, which kicked off on International Women’s Day, has become a talking point since, and today, it has been taken up by celebs and ordinary people alike. 
 Interestingly, the immediate reaction of many who get to hear about the campaign is, ‘But why do women want to go out in the middle of the night?’ There is an answer to that in the film Rani Padmini. A question is thrown at the female characters, Endhina ee kaadum malayum keri erangane? to which they reply, “Athinu kaaranam veno?”
 
 “I would say the same thing; women do not have to give a reason on why they need the freedom to travel during the day or night,” says Yamini, one of the founders of the campaign, who is just back from a recent trek up the Himalayas. And the highlight of the campaign is that not just women, but men too have been joining it in full gusto. Here is a lowdown:
 
 
 
 
 So, why choose social media? Aneesh ANS, a supporter, says, “Online campaigns have a wider reach, and even if one person shares it on his/her page, a 1,000 others on their friend list will see it, and will be encouraged to join. As more people repeat the idea, it will be inscribed deeply.”
 Their target crowd is the youth, as there is more scope for moulding their minds, they say. “Our aim was to find a lot of likeminded people, who will help spread the word. We find the younger generation more promising, as they are more inclusive.”
 
 Indu Krishna, one of the founders of the campaign, feels that the fear of being alone springs from within women themselves. “I have often travelled alone, even during the nights, and I have never had any bad instances. There is a fear or inhibition, sowed deeply in women’s minds. As a result, we have created a wall for ourselves. It is high time we overcame the fear and gave things a try, which we have not attempted yet.”
 
 
 
 
 Prominent personalities such as Gayathri Suresh, Anumol, Rekha Menon, director Prajesh Sen, Deedi Damodaran, writer Sithara, former Mrs India World Iris Maju, and many others have come out in support of the team. Anumol says, “I don’t look at people as men and women, but as human beings.
 That said, women are often side-lined for no reason. Why are women asked to take a backseat even when they are talented? The world belongs to everyone, including animals as well, and I felt this movement is meant for those women who have been 
 left behind.”
 
 An active promoter of self-defense among women is Iris Majo, who was crowned Mrs India World 2015-16. She says, “Whether we travel alone or at night, we have to take care of ourselves and be our own protector. Self-defense is not about techniques, but more about being confident and projecting the right body language.”
 
 
 
 
 Sajith Narayanan, a traveller who is working at the tourism department, is of the opinion it is the men who often put fetters on women, whether at home or outside. “Men often tell women not to go out after dusk as it is unsafe.”
 
 But when men themselves reinforce the fact that a woman is entitled to the same pleasures as them, it will lead to a revolution, points out Aneesh ANS, a photographer and a member of the team. “It is often because of the so-called guidelines, that womenfolk have not gotten themselves a taste of Thrissur Pooram or a midnight tea from a tea stall,” he says.
 
 And the campaign has had its effects. Shemeer TP, a supporter, says, “During school days, when a beautiful girl passed by, we would address them as ‘charakku’ or an ‘object’. When it comes to girls, these were the adjectives we used. I regret having indulged in such conversations now. I take a pledge not to mouth such words again and also hope my friends will start following the same.”
 
 So what is the next move of the group? “We are awaiting the government’s approval to take it one step ahead,” says Indu. “We want to create more awareness through campaigns and seminars at schools and colleges, at the grassroots level. Traveling and night walk plans for women are also in the pipeline. Educating boys about women’s right to move freely will be another focus area.” 
 
 
