Mumbai: The non-life   industry has submitted a proposal to the government to introduce a two-tier   for motor vehicle owners. A two-tier system would keep premium on the mandatory cover under check and at the same time would enable those who did not want to take the liability on themselves to buy additional cover from non-life companies.

 The proposal comes in the wake of the government’s move to amend the Motor Vehicles Act. Besides providing for higher penalties for offences, the amendment incorporates a number of measures to take care of accident victims. These include providing cashless treatments and higher compensation for hit-and-run victims.
 
 “In Japan too, there is a two-tier system and a large section of the policyholders go in for the voluntary cover,” said R Chandrasekaran, security general,   Council. The compulsory cover would still cover over 90% of the claims based on historical data. 
 
 Chandrasekaran said that another suggestion was for settlement of claims without litigation. This would be possible if the police submit a detailed accident report by verifying and providing all relevant documents to the court and insurers. 
 
 Today, most of the claims are settled on the basis of awards given by the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal after three years, and insurers end up making a higher payout as interest accounts for 26% of the claim.
 
 There is a proposal under the Motor Vehicle Amendment Bill to limit the liability of the insurer to Rs 10 lakh. But there is a lot of opposition to this limitation. The amendment to the Motor Vehicle Act has come under focus given the rising number of road accidents in the country. 
 
 India accounts for the highest number of road accidents globally with 1.5 lakh people being killed in 5 lakh road crashes every year. The government has come up with an action plan aimed at reducing road accidents by half by 2020.
 
 The insurance industry has pointed out that given the economic development and changes in the social environment of the country, there is a need to ensure that every vehicle on the road is insured and every victim gets compensation speedily without delay. It’s estimated a third of vehicles on Indian roads are breaking the law by not buying the mandatory third-party liability insurance.
 
 
