BENGALURU: Former Union minister   on Wednesday changed his   (shawl) to saffron by joining the BJP in New Delhi in the presence of party national president  . “I see a great new India emerging under the leadership of Prime Minister  , with the able assistance of Shah.”

 In a packed hall at the BJP office, Krishna was flanked by Union ministers H N Ananth Kumar, D V Sadananda Gowda, Ramesh C Jigajinagi, former DyCM R Ashoka and BJP general secretary (Karnataka in-charge) Muralidhar Rao. State BJP president   was absent as he was busy campaigning for the upcoming bypolls in Nanjangud and Gundlupet.
 
 Krishna described his joining the BJP as the “next stop in his long career in public life”. “When I was the chief minister between 1999 and 2004, A B Vajpayee was PM. Ananth Kumar is witness to the fact that Atalji had a soft corner for me. Referring to Modi’s regime, Krishna said: “As a former foreign minister, I am aware of the jealousy with which India is being watched by other countries.”
 
 Shah said Krishna’s seniority will be respected in the party. The latter was expected to join the BJP last week, but the ceremony was put off as his sister passed away. Congress leaders in Karnataka have taken Krishna’s decision in their stride. The BJP wants Krishna to campaign in Nanjangud and Gundlupet, and portray him as an influential leader who was sidelined by the Congress. 
 
 Krishna severed his 46-year-old ties with the Congress on January 28, saying the party leadership had no regard for senior leaders. According to BJP sources, while Krishna would help the party shed its Lingayat-centric image, talks are on to rope in actor and Congress MLA from Mandya M H Ambareesh, who is sulking over being dropped from the cabinet last June. 
 
 As part of its mission to win 150 of the 224 assembly seats in 2018, the BJP’s objective is to increase its tally from 12 of the total 27 assembly constituencies in   district. The party plans to project Krishna’s image as a chief minister who put Bengaluru on the global map. 
 
