MUMBAI: Delimitation in BMC’s A ward, which includes parts of Cuffe Parade, Fort and Colaba, has meant that one electoral seat was shelved.

 Now with three electoral constituencies in the ward, the Shiv Sena, Congress and BJP are in a tough fight to the finish. 
 
 In the last fortnight, the BJP strengthened its position in the ward after it inducted Independent corporator   and his sister-in-law Harshita Narwekar, who is contesting from ward 226 that includes parts of Cuffe Parade and the slums of Ambedkar Nagar and Machhimar Nagar. R Balakrishnan, a Cuffe Parade resident from electoral ward 226, said that the ward’s dynamics has changed due to delimitation and therefore it will be a “wait and watch” situation to see which party manages to make a breakthrough. “Our ward earlier had fewer Cuffe Parade highrises and more slum pockets. However, with delimitation the slum pockets have reduced and more towers have become part of the ward,” said Balakrishnan. Makrand and Harshita were planning to contest as citizens’ corporators before they decided to join the BJP. BM Chaturvedi, vice-chairman of Cuffe Parade Residents Association (CPRA) meanwhile said that they have had a meet your candidate interaction for their members recently so that they could know who were the contestants in fray. “It seems to be a tough fight but people are definitely looking for some kind of a change,” said Chaturvedi. 
 
 BJP’s Harshita Narwekar has been having meetings with the residents’ associations of Cuffe Parade and Churchgate since the last few months to get their support. The sitting Congress corporator from the area,  , has been taking out padyatras along with her husband and former corporator Vinod Shekhar to garner support from the slum pockets. “My mother Annie Shekhar has been an MLA from the area for a decade and a corporator prior to that. My wife too was a corporator for the last five years and has done a lot of work. Therefore we are expecting the goodwill to pass on and people to vote us back to power,” said Vinod Shekhar.
 
 Makarand Narwekar, who is contesting from ward 227, said switching from being an Independent candidate to joining the BJP has not changed anything for him as far as his equations with the voters are concerned. 
 
 “What matters for people is the work you do on the ground and therefore I have not seen anything change with me joining the BJP. I feel this will prove to be beneficial as with the party (BJP) being in power both at the Centre and the state we would now be able to achieve a lot more affiliating with it,” said Narwekar.
 
 The existing Shiv Sena corporator, Ganesh Sanap, a first-time BMC corporator in 2012, is unable to contest again after his seat was reserved for women. His sister-in-law, Sujata Sanap, is contesting from ward 225, the seat from where Ganesh Sanap won last time round.
 
