HYDERABAD: After years of unchecked decay,   may finally get a much-needed makeover.

 The 'Secret Lake', which was once a source of drinking water for the Golconda Fort, has been reduced over the years to a stinking mess, thanks to a mushrooming of illegal buildings and other encroachments on the lake bed. Today, it remains covered in algae or hyacinth for most of the year.
 
 The Telangana government is now trying to infuse life into the water body. Its grand plan is to make the lake the face of the city's growing IT hub.
 
 “First, we want to ensure that the entire lake is cleaned up. Almost 30% of it is done. Then, we will divert untreated wastewater which is still flowing into the lake,“ said IT secretary Jayesh Ranjan. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) will be the implementing agency for the project, which is being funded by private players such as K Raheja Corp and Wells Fargo as part of their CSR activities.
 
 Asked about illegal constructions on the lake bed, the senior official said the last encroachment on full tank level (FTL) was in 2001. “Since then, there has been no new construction. But the constructions that came up in 2001-02 were pretty huge. Now, one has to live with them,“ he rued.
 
 With no option to remove the existing concrete str uctures around the lake, the state government is focusing on the next best thing--redeveloping Durg am Cheruvu as a waterfront project.The authorities have engaged architect Mohammed Faisal to prepare the master plan.
 
 The basic idea, Faisal said, is to create various elements around the lake to engage with citizens of all age groups while preserving the rich biodiversity of the area.
 
 The plan includes building various walkways, including a lake walkway (a floating platform), boulder walkways (along rock for mations) and a forest walkway. It also envisages a promenade and cycling track, barbeque kiosks, yoga platforms and a play zone for children.
 
 Apart from this, Faisal has conceptualised an amphitheatre, `Screen on the Green', for cultural performances, and a garden that will comprise a butterfly park and will be decorated with floral representations of Disney characters.
 
 The plan also has a provision for adventure sports such as rappelling, rock climbing and kayaking. There will also be green corridors linking the waterfront to the main IT district.
 
 According to Faisal, it will take around four to six months to finalise the design and the master plan.The focus of phase-I would be on clean-up and the building of the cycling track, promenade and children's play area.
 
 Sources said the first phase will see an investment of Rs 5.5-6 crore and will be ready in six months to a year after the master plan is finalised.
 
 After the Durgam Cheruvu project takes off, the government will consider reviving other lakes, including Malkam Cheruvu.
 
 The latest redevelopment plan comes even as the government has given its nod for a hanging bridge across Durgam Cheruvu, from Road No. 45, Jubilee Hills, to Inorbit Mall. This project, to be implemented by Larsen & Toubro, is expected to cost Rs 184 crore and take two years to complete.
 
