MUMBAI: Medical aspirants across the country are gearing for yet another chaotic admission season as the   restrained the CBSE from continuing with evaluation and declaration of   till June 7. 

 A petition, seeking the national-level test be held again, is pending in the court and students are dreading its outcome. The petitioners have claimed the questions in regional languages were different from those in English and therefore defeat the purpose of a uniform entrance test. While students agree with the petitioner, not many are in favour of a re-test. Parents fear that pushing students too far may force them to change their career option.
 
 Sudha Shenoy, parent of an aspirant said, "Students are not in a state of mind to appear for a re-test. They do not want to be in a situation like last year where the admission chaos continued till the last day coupled with various court cases. Many are on the verge of changing field or going abroad if NEET is held again. All this is because of the incompetency of CBSE which set different question papers in regional languages."
 
 Even if there is no re-test, results will be delayed as evaluation has been stalled by the court, said parents. This in turn will further delay admission dates. The Directorate of Medical Education and Research was planning to start the process on June 9, a day after results were initially expected to be out. Its director,  , said the court case may delay the admission process now. "We intended to start the academic session by August 1, which may not happen," he said.
 
  Students who took a gap of a year to prepare for the medical entrance test after failing to get a seat of their choice last year, are upset at facing another year of uncertainty. Rujul Shah, a student from Aurangabad, said, "I dropped a year to get a seat of my choice. I had to appear for two NEETs last year and have already taken one test this year. I am not keen on a re-test. Why should students pay a price for a mistake committed by the authorities?" 
 
 Madhuri Shah, a parent from Mazgaon, said her daughter was traumatized after the court stay. "Though we have tried to convince her that if there is a re-test, students from the entire country will have to take it, she has lost interest," said Shah. 
 
 
