Residents of an upscale housing society in Juhu are a worried lot after reading about the secret tunnels, empty boxes of AK-47 cartridges, and a firecracker factory that the investigators unearthed at Gurmeet   Singh’s   headquarters in Haryana’s Sirsa town.

 Palm Beach Riviera, home to B Town celebs such as Shraddha Kapoor and Padmini Kolhapure, used to be Gurmeet’s abode in Mumbai. The Dera chief had rented a duplex spread over sixth and seventh storeys in November last, and stayed there on at least three occasions this year before he was sentenced to 20 years in jail last month on charges of rape.
 
 The   residents want the Juhu Police to carry out a search at the duplex, but the police said they don’t have such jurisdiction as the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) was looking into cases related to Gurmeet. The Juhu property belongs to a media executive identified as Yogesh Radhakrishnan, who remained unavailable for comment despite several messages from this newspaper.
 
 A society official told Mumbai Mirror that the apartment’s lease ends in November, and Gurmeet was accompanied by his adopted daughter Honeypreet when he stayed there. “The rent of this property is close to Rs 2 lakh a month. Gurmeet and his entourage travelled in high-end cars and had several high-profile visitors every day,” one of the residents said.
 
 The society’s manager, Chhote Lal Yadav, said the property owner has assured the members of complete co-operation, and the society’s lawyer will decide the further course of action. “The lease ends only after a couple of months, and the society cannot break open the duplex. It is for the cops to carry out a search,” Yadav said.
 
 The CBI sources said a team will be in Mumbai to search the duplex, even as the Juhu Police claimed there hasn’t been an official complaint from the resident. “We don’t have the jurisdiction to open the property,” Inspector Sunil Gosalkar from   said.
 
 Besides the Juhu duplex, Gurmeet had rented three apartments at Bandra’s Platinum Tower. Shehzad Khan, a railway employee whose brother owns the Bandra flats, said the lease had ended a few months ago but they were yet to receive the full rent.
 
