IMPHAL: The BJP on Friday accused Manipur chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh of trying to promote dynasty politics. 

 State BJP general secretary Thongam Biswajit Singh said, while the   revolved around the Gandhi family, the   worked only for Ibobi and his family. 
 
 Speaking during BJP's flag-hoisting ceremony at party candidate N Biren Singh's residence in Heingang constituency, Biswajit accused Congress of giving a ticket to the CM's nephew,  , who was 'involved' in a drug haul case.
 
 Henry is contesting against senior BJP leader Yumkham Erabot in Wangkhei constituency of Imphal East. Henry, along with a few other businessmen, were named in the chargesheet filed by the CBI in connection with the seizure of a huge consignment of psychotropic drugs at Imphal airport in January, 2013.
 
 Ibobi's son, Surjakumar, is also contesting polls in place of his mother Landhoni Devi from Khangabok constituency in Thoubal. Landhoni had represented the seat for two terms.
 
 Interestingly, Biren's son-in-law Raj Kumar Imo Singh is also contesting election, but on a Congress ticket. Raj Kumar, son of former chief minister and the late RK Jaichandra Singh, is now the general secretary of state Congress and a sitting MLA from Sagolband constituency in Imphal West.
 
 During the function, BJP's Manipur in charge Prahlad Singh Patel told Biren's supporters that Congress has been wiped out from different parts of the country. 
 
 "A Congress-free Manipur will open the doors of development. We need experienced leaders like Biren Singh to take forward BJP's agenda of development," he said.
 
 Stressing on BJP's slogan of a 'blockade-free, bandh-free Manipur', Patel said peace was essential for development. 
 
 Biren accused the Ibobi government of failing to resolve the UNC-sponsored blockade. "The Centre has provided additional central paramilitary forces to the state to help bring in fuel and essential commodities. But the state government failed to do its duty," he said. 
 
 He charged the Okram government with playing communal politics over creation of districts and Naga talks for electoral gains. Biren said the voters will defeat such evil designs.
 
 Biren wondered why the chief minister has so far failed to obtain the contents of the Naga framework agreement signed between the Centre and NSCN(I-M). 
 
 "His failure to convince the Centre and get the details of the agreement shows that he is a weak chief minister," he said. 
 
