Coimbatore: Tata Motors on Friday announced the launch of JT Special Vehicles, an equal joint venture (JV) with city-based Jayem Automotives, which designs and prototypes performance variants of automobiles, for special performance vehicles. 

 JT will develop a range of performance vehicles in a phased manner at a dedicated line, currently being explored at Coimbatore, the companies said.
 
 “With all processes including design, precision machining, assembly, and testing facilities driven under one roof, this facility will aim to deliver the next level of personalisation and enhanced performance with agility and efficiency,” they said.
 
 “As part of the agreement, both Tata Motors and Jayem Automotives will work towards performance enhancement and appearance of vehicles to offer an exciting and innovative range of niche aspirational products for passenger car customers,” the companies stated. 
 
 “As part of Tata Motors’ passenger vehicles business strategy, while an architecture approach with two platform strategy will reduce complexity, these special performance vehicles will be targeted to augment the latest product range in its aim to build aspirational cars,” they said. Ratan Tata, chairman emeritus of the Tata Group, has visited Jayem on several occasions in the past and the two companies already work together in passenger car and commercial vehicle segments.
 
 Announcing the JV, Guenter Butschek, CEO and Managing Director (MD), Tata Motors, said, “We are delighted to partner with Jayem, a brand known for its capabilities in concept creation and prototyping of special performance vehicles.”
 
 “This partnership is a step towards creating long-term relationships as a part of our transformation journey and to bring more exciting performance variants to our product range," he said. Commenting on the partnership, J Anand, MD, Jayem Automotives said, “We aim to bring world class performance products to market in a short time, and to fulfil expectations of passionate customers in the niche segment of sportier cars.”
 
 Jayem has expertise in design, development, prototyping and production of variants of automobiles. It works with world’s top companies in high performance automobiles, electric vehicles, engines for aerospace sector, special performance engines, and is a manufacturer of MRF-2000, one of the fastest Formula racing cars in Asia.
 
 
