RAIPUR: Aiming to curb the menace of rampaging wild elephants and to drive them away from human inhabited areas in Chhattisgarh, twelve local mahouts are undergoing training a special in Karnataka. These mahouts will work with trained tuskers called ‘Kumki’ expected to be brought in state by November.

 Vowing to resolve the issue following a public outcry over damages to life, crop and houses done by wild tuskers, the   is also coming up with an elephant relief and rehabilitation centre in Ambikapur after approval from Centre.
  
 Talking to TOI KK Bisen, chief conservator of forest, Surguja division said: “As per the plan, six   would be brought from Karanataka to Chhattisgarh to drive away wild and aggressive tuskers from human habitats. Twelve mahouts from ‘hathi mitra dal’ from the state have been sent to Dubare and Mathigoda in Karnataka for training.” 
 
 Bisen said the training is on the verge of completion and they would be back by November along with the trained elephants. 
 
 Kumki understands only Bengali and Burmese language, hence, it was essential for mahouts to learn few words in these languages to make them understand commands. 
 
 “Once the elephants reach Chhattisgarh, temporary camps would be set up in affected districts of Mahasamund, Baloda Bazaar, Surajpur and Jashpur near the nursery. Then, based on the movements of wild elephants, Kumki would be sent to confront them and drive them away to forests,” Bisen said.
 
 It’s important for locals to give prior information about presence and movement of elephants. 
 
 Chhattisgarh presently has nearly 245 elephants and has been witnessing man-animal conflict since years. 
 
 Meanwhile, work on elephant relief and rehabilitation centre in Ambikapur has already started on the allotted 4.86 hectare land.
 
 The Chhattisgarh forest department had sent a proposal to the Centre after which the ministry of environment, forest and climate change approved the project. The centre is being developed in Pingla region near Pingla lake at Surajpur division. 
 
 The ministry has also given approval to limit the number of tranquilization to 12 in case a wild tusker has to be carried to the rehabilitation centre.
 
