Nagpur: The three-member high-level team constituted by National   Conservation Authority (NTCA) returned without any concrete evidence on iconic tiger Jai’s death as claimed by BJP MP from Bhandara-Gondia Nana Patole.

 In November last year, Patole had stirred up trouble for his own government in the state by claiming that Jai, who is missing since April 18, 2016, has been poached. He and a group of MPs had also raised the issue in Parliament on November 29.
 
 Talking to TOI, Patole said a line of action has been prepared and for the first time investigations have started from crime angle in Jai case. The three members belonged to specialized fields.
 
 “The earlier special investigation team (SIT), which had arrived in the city on December 9, was not so competent and hence I had demanded setting up of a team of specialized officers,” said Patole.
 
 When asked whether he submitted any proof regarding poaching of missing tigers, Patole said, “The team has collected all the details and documents. If my claims of death of missing tigers are not true then forest officials should either prove that Jai and other tigers are alive,” said Patole.
 
 The three-member team consisting of NTCA inspector general of forests (IGF) PS Somashekar, Bengalaru, Wildlife Institute of India (WII) tiger scientist Qamar Qureshi, Dehradun, and joint director of Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) Vivek Kishore, Delhi, met Patole on Sunday in Bhandara.
 
 The team was in the city on January 21-23, and during the first two days, the officials went to a lake inside the Umred-Karhandla Wildlife Sanctuary where Jai used to frequent. Later, the team went to Paoni and surrounding forests and gathered information and talked to the staff. On January 22, it went to Nagzira, Jai’s original home.
 
 Sources said the team asked officials about protection measures and how tiger monitoring was done. “Basically, the job of the committee was to verify Patole’s claim on missing tigers,” said a senior officer.
 
 Talking to TOI, team leader Somashekar refused to divulge any details except that they visited various spots. “We cannot reveal anything and a report will be submitted to government of India soon,” he added.
 
 The team was elusive and several individuals and NGOs who tried to contact the officials were disappointed.
 
 According to official sources, the team collected report of camera trap assessments, locations as per camera traps and radio collars. It also sought investigations done for missing tigers, death and poaching records.
 
 “The Central team also inquired about staff strength and patrolling protocols and complaints from people. They will prepare a factual status report on missing tigers and submit it to NTCA,” said sources.
 
 
