PUNE: Ever wondered why you feel hotter than it really is outside? Here’s why: The   in India is increasing significantly per decade at the rate of 0.56 degree C and 0.32 degree C in   respectively, a recent research by   (IMD) and   (IITM) has found.

 Heat index is a measure of the stress placed on humans by increased levels of  . The higher the heat index, the hotter the weather one feels, since sweat does not readily evaporate and cools the skin.
 
 Out of the 25 mega cities analysed, 17 cities have long-term average summer heat index in ‘very hot category’, including Mumbai, Pune, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, Visakhapatnam, Coimbatore and Nagpur, among others.
 
 The study found that Mumbai and Pune from west India are in the ‘hot category’ of the heat index in monsoon and in ‘very hot category’ in summer. Most of the mega cities in north India are in hot category of the heat index during the summer season and in ‘very hot category’ in monsoon, including Delhi and Amritsar.
 
 ‘Very hot’ category in the heat index is considered dangerous, with health effects such as likely heat cramps or heat exhaustion and heatstroke with prolonged exposure or physical activity.
 
 While the ‘hot category’ of the heat index requires people exposed to it to take extreme caution, with heat cramps and heat exhaustion possible with prolonged exposure or physical activity.
 
 A K Jaswal, who recently retired from IMD and was the lead researcher in the study, which was recently published in the ‘Journal of Climate Change’, told TOI that stations with moderate to strong increasing trends in heat index are more concentrated in Indo-Gangetic plains, central India and along west coast and southeast coast where many stations have trends between 1 degree C and 3 degree C per decade.
 
 Long-term average heat index for monsoon season indicates 18 mega cities are in very hot category, including New Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Varanasi and Amritsar, among others.
 
 The study found that 10 mega cities show significant increasing trends in monsoon heat index, including Mumbai, New Delhi, Lucknow, Gwalior, Varanasi, Nagpur, Madurai, Coimbatore, Hyderabad and Tiruchirapalli. “Most of these mega cities have significant increasing trends in summer and monsoon season heat index. Mega cities are densely packed with people, buildings, industries and motor vehicles. Heat released in the atmosphere gets trapped, meaning the ambient temperature is often higher than the immediate surroundings,” said Jaswal.
 
 He added that an interesting regional phenomenon is the stilling of winds in India. “Wind helps sweat to evaporate and the body to cool. Spatially, the increasing trends in heat index are significant in all regions of the country, suggesting substantial increase in human discomfort and illness aggravated by climate change,” he said.
 
 The study used monthly average maximum temperature and relative humidity records from 283 surface meteorological stations in India to analyse heat index during summer (March to May) and monsoon (June to September) seasons for the last 60 years (1951 to 2010).
 
 “The increasing heat index indicates high level of discomfort in both the seasons which is primarily due to increase in humidity in summer season and maximum temperature in monsoon season. Spatial distribution of heat index indicates greater chances of heat related illness in India, more prominently in the southeast coastal regions in summer and over northwest India (Rajasthan and Indo-Gangetic plains) in monsoon,” said Jaswal.
 
 Researchers of the study feel that administrative authorities should take all precautionary measures in heat stress prone regions so that human lives of vulnerable sections of the society can be saved.
 
 Physicians said that heat cramps are a result of dehydration and loss of electrolyte balance in the body. Physician Prakash Mahajan told TOI that such a condition can make a person prone to viral infections. “We tend to get an increased number of viral infection cases every time the mercury shoots up to extreme levels,” said Mahajan.
 
 Consultant physician Narendra Javadekar said, “Heat strokes are seen in places where the temperature rise is extreme, such as cities like Nagpur. “However, during times of hot weather conditions, people should keep themselves hydrated, especially those with renal stones. Heat cramps or heat exhaustion can occur when a person is exposed to severely hot weather conditions for a prolonged period of time,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 Heat index | It is a measure of how hot humans actually feel when relative humidity is factored in with the air temperature
 
 This means that if the air temperature is 30 degrees C with a relative humidity of 60%, the apparent temperature, or heat index, would be 33 degrees C
 
 As the atmosphere is warmed, its ability to hold moisture increases almost exponentially. With the increase in atmospheric moisture content, the ability of the human body to release heat through evaporation is inhibited, thereby causing discomfort and stress
 
 Episodes of high humidity and air temperature in summer months often result in oppressive heat index values and dangerous heat waves in India
 
 
 
 
 According to a recent study, the average heat index in India is increasing significantly at the rate of 0.56 degrees C per decade in summer and 0.32 degree C per decade in monsoon
 
 Average heat index (in degrees C)
 
 City----summer HI----monsoon HI
 
 Vishakhapatnam--- 50.4---47.5
 
 Chennai--- 49.5--- 49.9
 
 Kolkata---47.7---47.4
 
 Ahmedabad---46.1---48.4
 
 Nagpur--- 42.1---43.6
 
 Hyderabad---42---38.7
 
 Pune---41.4---34.8
 
 Mumbai---41.2---39.9
 
 Lucknow--- 40.2--- 49.7
 
 Amritsar 37.9---49.8
 
 Bengaluru---37.9---32.1
 
 New Delhi---36.9---47.6
 
 Jaipur---36.5--- 44.9
 
 How it affects you
 
 HI range (in °C) — Classification — Health effects of prolonged exposure
 
 27–32-------------------Warm----------Caution: Fatigue, heat cramps
 
 32–41----------------Hot-----------Extreme caution: Heat cramps, exhaustion
 
 41–54----------------Very hot----Danger: Heat cramps, exhaustion and heatstroke
 
 >54 °C----------------Extremely hot--- Extreme danger: Heatstroke highly likely with continued exposure
 
 Researchers say that since cities are densely packed with people, buildings, industries and motor vehicles, the heat released in the atmosphere gets trapped. This leads to the ambient temperature often being higher than immediate surroundings.
 
