BHOPAL: Little Hemlata, all of four days old, has lived longer than doctors expected. Now, with her tiny heart beating outside her chest, she is being taken to   in the hope of a second miracle.

 Born to a security guard’s wife, who did not undergo any   during her pregnancy, this little fighter has an extremely rare condition that affects only eight in 1 million pregnancies. Called ectopia cordis, it’s a congenital defect that causes the heart develop externally. Ninety per cent of such babies are stillborn or die within three days of birth.
 
 Hemlata was born in Khajuraho at a government-run hospital on April 5. Her parents had the shock of their lives when they saw the heart beating in the open. Doctors say the mother, Parwati Patel, did not undergo any medical test because she didn’t have the money.
 
 Beating the odds, Hemlata has survived her fourth day and a grueling 700km journey from MP's hinterland to Delhi. After preliminary care, doctors at the community health centre referred the newborn to an ill-equipped district hospital in Chhatarpur where doctors advised her parents to take her to Gwalior’s Gajra Raja Medical College.
 
 Parwati’s husband Arvind Patel was in a dilemma over taking the   to Gwalior. He instead took her home on Thursday, telling doctors that she would survive “if it’s written in her destiny”.
 
 Meanwhile, the news spread across his village and a social activist called up district collector Dr Ramesh Bhadari and requested him to convince Patel to take the baby to Gwalior.
 
 Bhandari called Patel and assured him that the government would bear all the expenses under Mukhyamantri Bal Hriday Upchar Yojna. This is a successful scheme run by the Madhya Pradesh government providing free treatment and financial assistance to cure children with heart ailments. Gwalior collector Dr Sanjay Goyal and divisional commissioner S K Rupla also pitched in.
 
 “The parents \were worried about the expenses. I said there are several schemes to take care of it and she should immediately rush to Gwalior. I am hopeful that she will survive,” Bhandari told TOI.
 
 Hemlata was under the supervision of assistant professor Dr Ghanshyam Das. “It’s a complicated case. There is a defect in her abdominal valve. She has been shifted to AIIMS-Delhi where she will be operated upon by cardiothoracic surgeons,” Dr Ghanshyam told TOI.
 
 
