AHMEDABAD: On Wednesday, when Prime Minister   was scheduled to address a meeting of women sarpanchs in Gandhinagar, Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) and anganwadi workers — planning to press for sufficient wages — were detained by the city police in the morning from  . In the afternoon, 15 more were detained at Hebatpur Circle, SG Road. Apart from hundreds of health activists and anganwadi workers, Alpesh Thakor, the convener of the OBC, SC, ST Ekta Manch and the Gujarat Kshatriya Thakor Sena; and Jignesh Mevani, the convener of the Rashtriya Dalit Adhikar Manch (RDAM), were also detained on Wednesday.

 Thakor was detained at the Sabarmati Ashram, while Mevani was detained at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International airport where he had landed on his return from Delhi. Congress workers were also detained in Gandhinagar where they were protesting against the PM’s visit. Gandhinagar district Congress office was surrounded by police and many women party workers were put under house arrest inside the office. Workers of the Gujarat unit of AAP put up posters blaming the PM for 100 deaths that occurred in bank queues after demonetization. 
 
 Police officials said that around 800 persons including health activists and anganwadi workers were detained on Wednesday to avert law and order problems. Officials said that five assistant commissioners of police, two police inspectors, five women police personnel, and 100 police constables were deployed in Gandhi Ashram on Wednesday. Sources in police said that a message flashed at one stage that some members of the Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS) would disrupt the PM’s convoy near the airport circle when he returned from Mahatma Mandir. However, no disruption happened.
 
 Thakor along with other detainees were taken to the police headquarters in Shahibaug. After his arrest, members of his outfit blocked state highways in Rajkot, Banaskantha, Aravalli, and Patan districts. Reports also came in of tyres being set afire on the Ahmedabad-Indore highway. In the afternoon, another group of nearly 200 anganwadi workers and health activists led by RDAM members held a protest at the district collectorate near the RTO Circle. Police detained them and took them to Shahibaug. After the PM left for Delhi on Wednesday evening, the detainees were released. 
 
