BENGALURU: In one of Karnataka’s worst drought year, the government has got one thing right -- use the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural   ( ) to create community capital assets.

 From godowns to lake desilting and from rejuvenation of tanks to constructing burial grounds, the state government seems to be keen on creating the necessary capital assets instead of only ensuring employment opportunities in rural areas. Through this, the state has managed to generate employment of over 91 per cent of the targeted 10 crore person days.
 
 According to director (in-charge) for MNREGA, U P Singh, the commissonerate in the state has tried to identify value-based assets that can be created using the scheme instead of only employment-generating projects.
 
 “In certain districts, interaction with local gram panchayat members suggested there weren’t godowns for farmers. During bumper crops, a lot of foodgrains would rot only because of lack of storage space. Now, in a drought year, we are persistently using   for godown construction and storage of crops when there is a good harvest season in a normal year,” said Singh.
 
 While individual works still gain prominence when it comes to generating employment under NREGA, the idea of having community projects has also picked up pace in the state.
 
 According to Singh, there has been an increasing demand under MNREGA to construct burial grounds at the gram panchayat level.
 
 With lack of space to bury the dead, and caste lines being drawn on use of existing space, there has been an efforr to use MNREGA for creating a common burial ground for all communities and castes. As per the MNREGA website, 2.47 lakh assets have been created in the state -- individual and community.
 
 While the numbers have slowed down as compared to 2015-16 and 2014-15, there has been a systematic shift in approach of the MNREGA scheme and generating capital assets. At present, with the drought persisting, it appears there has been a shift in focus from other works towards rejuvenation of water sources.
 
 At a recent cabinet sub-committee on drought meeting, the state decided to divert all its attention towards rejuvenation projects. “Under MNREGA, we have decided to stop all community projects and concentrate only on rejuvenation of water sources. We need them to be ready when it rains so as to avoid a third consecutive drought,” said law minister  , who is part of the committee. 
 
 However, scepticism persists within government whether MNREGA can in fact be of any assistance in water rejuvenation.
 
 “Work that can be effectively done by a   within four hours is now taking no less than 20 to 30 days. It’s anybody’s guess about the possible impact of such use of scheme as opposed to concrete constructions,” said a NREGA personnel.
 
