Bengaluru: In what would be its eleventh acquisition, online classifieds startup   is close to buying out a blue collar   marketplace  , sources close to the development told TOI. This would be an equity swap deal much like Quikr's other acquisitions. Once the transaction goes through it would be the second buyout for Quikr in the online recruitment space after Hiree. 

 Post the acquisition, Quikr would emerge as the leader in the online jobs marketplace industry. "The talks have finalised and an announcement would be made soon. Babajob has been looking to raise fresh funds for a while but was not being able to get an investor, which prompted them to go for the sale," a person directly aware of the development said. 
 
 When contacted, Babajob founder and CEO Sean Blagsvedt and the company co-founder & COO Vir Kashyap did not respond to emails and text messages sent by TOI. A Quikr spokesperson declined to comment on the matter.
 
 The Australia based online jobs marketplace SEEK is a majority investor in the company with close to 40% stake in Babajob. 
 
 Started in 2007 the company was valued at $25 million when SEEK invested in the firm. Over the last one year it has been on a cost cutting drive reducing its team to about 50 people from a peak strength of about 600 employees. Babajob, which claimed that it had a base of seven million job seekers and 4,50,000 employers on its platform, focuses on jobs like helpers, maids, drivers, security, nurses, data entry among others.
 
 "Babajob was the only sizable competitor Quikr was facing in this space and this acquisition gives them a leadership position," another person said on the condition of anonymity. 
 
 Quikr, a part of the Indian unicorn club, privately held startups valued at $1 billion or more, is said to have 8 million active profiles on QuikrJobs with 2 lakh applications per day. 
 
  Backed by investors such as Tiger Global, Steadview Capital, Matrix Partners among others, it has traditionally chosen to take an inorganic path to strengthen its capabilities in various segments. 
 
 In the past, it has acquired   like Stayglad, Zimmber, Grabhouse, Stepni.com.,Zapluck, Zalosa, CommonFloor among others.
 
 
