BENGALURU: The government's interest in bringing   running through the city ­ most importantly   under the local body has dwindled after the   clarification allowed   in the CBD.

 The public works department ( ), which had argued that its proposal to the central government about highways had nothing to do with the liquor ban, has failed to follow it up, raising questions on whether the initial move was intended to circumvent the apex court ruling.
 
 Soon after the SC ban, the PWD wrote to the Centre, seeking its nod to redesignate stretches of the national highways within the city .However, the Centre did not approve it and wrote back, asking the state government if there were alternative roads that could be used as national highways.
 
 The PWD formulated a new plan following this, and it maintained throughout this process that the move is not connected with the liquor ban and that it's being done keeping in mind other operational reasons.
 
 The state even argued that stretches like MG Road are no longer highways as not only are they being maintained by the local authorities but they are also not typically going by the various parameters ­ highways.
 
 From the width of the road to traffic signals and even hosting of the Metro station, there are several parameters showing that MG Road does not function as a nation al highway . Also, the Centre had sought more clarifications on the matter to which the state was to provide answers. However, the latter hasn't got back on the proposal after the SC gave its clarifications in August-end, saying liquor vends around these roads can reopen.
 
 Stating that he comes into the picture only when the state needs legal help, A S Ponnanna, additional advocate general, however, said the government should not allow the procedural and legal battle to stop abruptly and that it must follow up with the Centre. “It is like a sword hanging over our heads; if we don't act immediately it could hurt us some day . We must address this before some other issue (like the liquor ban) presents itself. In the case of MG Road, the government must take corrective measures as a day may arise when they say Metro stations shouldn't be there on the road, as it is a national highway ,“ he said.
 
 
