PATIALA: The   court in Patiala has rejected the bail applications of two PWD officials and four of their relatives who have been accused of misappropriating government funds worth Rs 23 crore to buy private properties.

 The   (ED) is investigating into the bungling of government funds, and a third PWD official is also an accused. PWD executive engineer (XEN) Joginder Singh, his wife Kamaljeet Kaur, PWD retired superintendent Satpal Bansal, and their relatives Jagjit Singh, Sukhwinder Singh and Balwinder Singh had applied for the bail plea that was rejected on Tuesday.
 
 The special public prosecutor for ED in the case, Jagjitpal Singh Saro, said the court observed that though the accused had joined investigations, they had not cooperated with the investigating agency and, hence, their pleas were dismissed.
 
 ED had dug out properties worth crores of rupees that were bought by Joginder Singh, junior engineer (JE) Sarabjeet Singh and Satpal using government funds withdrawn through forged letters of credit and bills of unauthorized granted of works.
 
 The investigations carried out by the ED into as many as nine FIRs that were registered against the accused by the state vigilance bureau between 2011 and 2014 at Bathinda had revealed that the accused went on buying properties and   worth over Rs 23 crore in the name of their nine relatives. The names of their relatives were incorporated in the enforcement case information report ( ) registered by the ED under Section 45 (1) of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) of 2002. 
 
 In the 2,276-page challan that was filed before the special CBI court, which is also designated to hear PMLA cases, ED assistant director Deepak Chauhan said Joginder purchased properties in the name of Kamaljeet, his father-in-law Joginder Singh and mother-in-law Gurcharan Kaur. Sarbjeet got the properties in the names of his mother, maternal uncle and two cousins. The third accused Satpal bought properties in the name of his wife. 
 
 
