When you   the next time, observe how a  . If the animal paces up and down on a straight path and pauses for a while, rotates its head, gnaws at its paws and snaps at other animals, then the prized prisoner is displaying stereotypical behaviour of a big cat that is it is bored and suffering from stress.

 Stereotypical behaviour, or stereotypye , in an animal is an abnormality that surfaces when it is removed from its natural habitat and exposed to scheduled diet and barren environment. Such an animal re quires immediate attention as stereotypye will increase stress, affect its health and take a toll on its reproductive system. In order to avoid such behaviour, zoo managers have to provide enrichments inside enclosures in the form of pools, dens and adequate tree cover. These props are needed to mimic the animal's natural habitat even if the animal was born in captivity .
 
 A team of researchers took up a year-long study , between April 2014 and March 2015, on stereotypy among OF HA animals in captivity and HORM covered six zoos across the country , one among them being   in Vandalur.
 
 N Baskaran, one of the researchers, says the team assessed stereotypic behaviour and stress physiol ogy among tigers and leopards. The team used standard behaviour scoring, non-invasive stress monitoring and contextual drivers to monitor the fe lines. The prevalence of stereotypical behaviour and levels of faecal corti costerone metabolites (FCM) -traces of a hor mone produced in the cortex of the adrenal glands and found in the faeces -were ascertained among 41 Royal   and 21 leopards. Behavioural observations showed that tigers spent more time stereotyping (12%) than leopards (only 7% during daytime).Compared to leopards, tigers had marginally lower FCM. Corticosterone, in this case FCM, regulates levels of energy , immune reactions and stress responses.
 
 The study found that stereotypi cal behaviour increased significantly in tigers and leopards with FCM levels when diet, tree cover, presence of stones, den and keeper attitude were controlled. The prevalence decreased with increased enclosure size, enrichments like pools and stones, and a positive keeper attitude. Stereotypy among leopards was significantly absent when tree cover was increased.
 
 Baskaran said tigers are wideranging in nature, and stereotypy and stress can be brought down with spacious enclosures.ITS & Existing zoos with enclo sures smaller than those ONES recommended by   have to enlarge their facilities. Further, tigers in their prime have to be provided with the largest enclosures available.Since the feline is both crepuscular (active during twilight) and nocturnal, zoos must enlarge their night cells as well, he said.
 
 “To overcome stereotypy, the younger age-class individuals, especially those brought from wild as orphans, should be kept with mates of similar age,“ Baskaran said.“Keeper attitude is an important factor to reduce stereotypes and stress both in tigers and leopards. Keepers should be scientifically trained and counselled for better upkeep of big cats in captivity,“ he added.
 
 TELLTALE SIGNS:
 
 Tigers and leopards in zoos are susceptible to boredom and express it by repetitive behaviour that serves no goal or function
 
 
