BHUBANESWAR: The smooth conduct of the   brought chief minister   accolades from unexpected quarters. Leader of opposition  , a bitter critic of Naveen, on Sunday showered lavish praise on the state government for the mega sporting event, a first for Odisha. 

 "The govt of Odisha deserves appreciation for the successful organization of #AsianAthleticsChampionships. More so when Jharkhand backed out of it in the last minute putting the country's prestige at stake," Narasingha posted on Facebook. On being contacted by TOI, Narasingha said, "I have personally gone to the championships twice, first during the opening ceremony and again as a guest on Friday, and I have seen the arrangements. It's appreciable. What impressed me more is the fact that Odisha showed its guts when the BJP government in Jharkhand washed its hands of it 90 days ahead of the event putting the country's prestige at stake," Narasingha said.
 
 Recognition coming from the principal opposition party comes as a shot in the arm for Naveen, especially after the snub from the BJP, which virtually boycotted the event. While Union sports minister Vijay Goel did not attend the opening ceremony citing "ill health," Union ministers from Odisha, Jual Oram and Dharmendra Pradhan, skipped the closing ceremony because of prior commitments. Jual had earlier this week criticized Naveen for confining the event to a coterie.
 
 On Narasingha's appreciation of Naveen, BJP spokesperson Sajjan Sharma said he is not privy to the "secret understanding between the CM and the leader of opposition. In the so-called successful holding of the event, sports associations at the state and district level were not involved at all. Instead, the Naveen government tried to make political gains out of it by having his photos on posters everywhere. 
 
 On the BJP allegation of a deal with Naveen, Narasingha said his appreciation is because of the good show put up by the state. "Despite political rivalry, I can differentiate between the good and the bad things done by the government. It's altogether a different matter that there is a secret pact between BJP and BJD, as exhibited by Naveen's support to BJP's presidential candidate Ram Nath Kovind in a hurry without waiting for the opposition to announce its nominee," Narasingha said.
 
