VADODARA: An alert was issued in 137 villages of central Gujarat in wake of the incessant rains and water being released from reservoirs in the region even as one person was reported missing and the body of a man was found. 

 In   district, 45 families had to be moved to a safe location as Sabarmati was in spate.
 
 The largest number of villages that were asked to exercise caution were on the banks of the Mahi river. Water was being released from the Vanakbori and Kadana dams on the river. As a consequence, the administration in Mahisagar, Panchmahal, Vadodara and Anand district had to put villages in the low-lying areas along the river on an alert.
 
 In all, 41 villages in Anand district were put on alert due to water level rising in the Sabarmati and Mahi rivers. The villages include 14 along the   and 27 on Mahi. Residents of 12 villages along the Sabarmati river in Tarapur taluka of the district were asked to leave their homes, but most of them were resisting the move. Eventually, only 45 families agreed to do so and were taken to the Tarapur APMC.
 
 In Mahisagar district, 23 villages on the banks of Mahi were alerted as water was being released from the Kadana dam. As many as 19 villages along the river in Panchmahal district were also put on alert. The rise in the level of the river forced the administration to close traffic on the Hadod Bridge on the Ahmedabad-Lunawada road and the Ghodiyar bridge on the highway to Banswada as well as Modasa from Kadana.
 
 A bridge on the Lavari river between the Kheroli and Gadheli villages of Lunawada taluka in Mahisagar district was washed away due to flow of the river. This led to some villages of the Lunawada taluka getting cut off.
 
 Mohan Bariya, 48, a resident of Sohini village in Limkheda taluka, went missing after lightening struck his boat while he was fishing in the Hadaf dam in Panchmahal district. The body of an unidentified man was found from water in a ravine in the Deloch village of Morva Hadaf taluka.
 
 In Dahod district, the embankment of a pond in the Jerjitgadh village of Limkheda taluka developed leaks and water from it inundated nearby areas. The Dosi river in the taluka was also in a spate and 10 villages were put on alert on its banks.
 
 In Vadodara district, the Desar taluka received 53 mm of rains on Thursday while Vadodara city received 19 mm of rains and Savli got 22 mm. District authorities said that Ajwa Lake was flowing at 209.40 feet and Vishwamitri River's water level was 10 feet which is way below the danger mark. Heavy rainfalls have been predicted over next 24 hours. 
 
 
