JAIPUR: Incidents of crime against women paint a sorry picture of Rajsathan. It has earned the notorious title of being the state with the third highest   reported.

 According to   ( ), 34,651 rape cases under Section 376 of IPC were registered during 2015 in the country. Out of this figure, maximum number of rape cases were reported in   (4,391). It is followed by Maharashtra (4,144) and Rajasthan (3,644).
 
 Similarly, the NCRB data puts Jaipur among the leading three cities with maximum number of rape cases registered. With a crime rate of 9.1, Jaipur police registered over 279 rape cases. Jodhpur too, with 152 rape cases in a year, has earned itself a dubious distinction of a city with a high crime rate against women.
 
 A senior police official of the state told TOI that crime rate is not the only indicator of law and order situation. “It is police’s duty to register the crime, the important part of our job is to submit chargesheet in these cases,” the official said.
 
 If rapes continue to hound Rajasthan in general and Jaipur in particular, the other incident of crimes like molestation, sexual harassment,outraging modesty of a woman and attempt to rape are also alarmingly high.
 
 Despite several awareness campaigns and stringent laws to check cases of assault on women with intent to outrage her modesty, an offence punishable under Section 354, Rajasthan continues to be a worse performer. Jodhpur, with 440 cases, recorded a crime rate of 38.7 in such cases. 
 
 The police official said that while NCRB refers to ‘Crime rate’ for crimes committed against women calculated using female population, the numbers are indeed alarming.
 
 “The national crime rate against women was 53.9% in 2015, and Rajasthan is in the top five states with a rate of 81.5%. These kinds of crimes call for drastic changes at all levels, from school to even within families,” another official said.
 
 The NCRB’s finding states that out of 4,384 cases registered in the country against attempt to commit rape, Rajasthan ranks fourth with 407 cases. 
 
 Suman Sharma, chairperson of state women commission, told TOI that more stringent laws are the hour of need. 
 
 “We need more strict laws which focus on gender crime. If a person is booked for sexual harassment, he should not be able to get bail easily. Besides, the state police needs to deal with such cases with a firm hand,” Sharma added.
 
