BHUBANESWAR: A day after the ruling Biju   (BJD) pointed out 'contradictions' in Union tribal affairs minister  's poll expenditure data and sought his resignation, the BJP leader said he would quit if any evidence was found to substantiate the charges. 

 Moreover, he dared chief minister   to also quit if the charges against him - of dubious monetary transactions during the 2014 election - were proved.
 
 BJD MPs Pinaki Mishra and Pratap Keshari Deb had sought Jual's resignation on Saturday after alleging serious manipulation in his election affidavit for the 2014 Lok Sabha election. 
 
 Speaking to TOI over the phone, Jual said he stood by the statement of accounts filed by him with the Election Commission (EC) as they were 'true and factual'. 
 
 "There is no question of any irregularity," he said, adding, "I dare BJD and the chief minister to drag me to court or the EC. I am ready to face any probe."
 
 Referring to alleged inconsistencies in Naveen's poll expenditure, Jual said, "The irregularities in his affidavit have been prima facie established. He should resign on moral grounds. If a preliminary investigation finds anything against me, I am ready to quit as well." 
 
 Accusing the Naveen-led BJD of levelling trumped-up and politically motivated charges, Jual, in a statement, said the regional party was trying to divert people's attention from its own misdeeds.
 
 Echoing similar sentiments, Jual's party colleague and Union petroleum minister   said Naveen had no moral right to continue as chief minister after the recent 'exposé' on his 'dubious' transactions. 
 
 Addressing a party meeting in Solara village under Badachana block in Jajpur district, Dharmendra said Naveen had lied under oath while submitting his poll affidavit in 2014. "Jual has told BJD that it is free to move EC or court. He is ready for the consequences. Is Naveen ready as well?" Dharmendra asked.
 
 Reacting to Jual's statement, BJD spokesperson Pratap Keshari Deb said the Union minister had not given specific answers to the questions raised by the party MPs on Saturday. "Jual should explain why cash transactions were shown as nil in one paper and lakhs in another portion of his affidavit," the BJD leader said.
 
 Explaining the discrepancies, BJD had said the details mentioned in Part-III of the election expenditure statement of Jual (that deals with source of funds raised by candidate) did not match the information furnished in Schedule-7 of the statement (details of amount of own fund used for the election campaign) and Schedule-9 (details of lump sum amount received from any person/company/firm/association as loan, gift and donation other than the amount given by the party).
 
