BENGALURU: Babu H works as a freelance electrician, fixing appliances like washing machines and refrigerators, and earns Rs 70,000-80,000 a month. “About a year ago, I worked for a multinational and earned a fixed salary of Rs 20,000 a month,“ he says. “Quitting a salaried job increased my earning opportunities. Today , I have set up my own business with my brother,“ he adds.

 He has signed up with a home services aggregator and gets five calls for work on weekdays and about 10 on weekends, but he prefers to take Sundays off and spend time with his family. “Even with a day off, I earn more than I used to,“ he says.
 
 Ditto with Sanjay Kumar, a carpenter who moved to Bengaluru from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh a few years ago. “I started working with my father when I was nine. We moved to Bengaluru and I got a job in a company through an agent. It paid about Rs 8,000 a month. Getting work was a challenge and the income was not regular,“ he says.
 
 Now, he has signed up with home services aggregator HouseJoy , which means finding work is never a problem.“Usually , there is high demand for carpentry work on the weekends. Now I earn about Rs 30,000 a month,“ he says.
 
 Until now, carpenters, plumbers, electricians, janitors and other blue-collar workers were dependent on agents and contractors to get jobs. The contractors would take a huge commission from their earnings.
 
 Startups have provided a platform for these professionals, taking a percentage that ranges from 20% to 30% but guaranteeing work through the month.
 
 “The app not only helps people find me but I get a work without a struggle. The companies give us soft skills training, and teach us English and Hindi to help us communicate better with clients,“ says Babu.
 
 Sandeep Kumar, who runs a small janitor services company , SM Solutions, said, “The main problem in our business is to market it right. With these apps, we don't have to worry about marketing anymore. If we work professionally , we get a good rating and our marketing is done, and we get more bookings,“ he says, adding he plans to expand his business.
 
 “We get about five to six jobs every day during the week but the rush is during weekends and ahead of festivals. We earned Rs 4 lakh in December ahead of Christmas and New Year. Other vendors in the same space are able to earn more because they have bigger teams. If I have to earn more, I have to expand my team,“ Kumar says. Sushant Swain, who has been working with HouseJoy as a plumber for over a year, says, “I used to work privately before and there wasn't much work. If I get high ratings from clients and do the job on time, I am entitled to incentives of Rs 2,000-4,000,“ said the Indiranagar resident.
 
