MUMBAI: No parent would expose their daughter to disrepute to falsely implicate someone on rape charges, held the  , while refusing to release the accused on bail.   Abdul Rehman was arrested last year for allegedly for sexually assaulting a   on an   premises on two consecutive days. 

 In her complaint, the mother had said that her daughter had told her class teacher about the incident. When Rehman’s lawyers argued that he had been falsely implicated and the Andheri school had claimed it nor had no knowledge of any such incident, Justice Sadhana Jadhav said, “There is no reason for the girl’s mother to falsely implicate the accused at the cost of dignity, honour and reputation of her daughter.” 
 
 Rehman’s lawyers contended that police had not recorded the statement of the teacher to whom the victim had first confided. They also claimed that the school had said that the teacher had denied any knowledge of the incident. Also, the CCTV cameras in the area had not caught any such incident.
 
 But additional public prosecutor Arfan Sait brought to the court’s attention an email written by the girl’s father to the school authorities informing them about the incident. The HC agreed that the school was trying to wash its hands of the incident. “The e-mail sent by the victim’s father is a clear indication that the school has failed to take any action, and to save its reputation has denied the knowledge about the said incident,” added the judge. 
 
 According to the police, on February 11 and 12, 2016, the school van driver accosted the girl during recess, took her to a secluded place behind the building and sexually assaulted her. The mother learnt about the incident when she found stains on the girl’s undergarments. The victim told her mother that an “uncle” had touched her inappropriately. By the time the   reached the school to check the number of the school van, the accused had fled. 
 
 Rauf was booked for raping a minor under provisions of the Indian Penal Code as well as the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The judge ruled that under the POCSO Act, there is a presumption of guilt by the accused unless he proves he is innocent. “In view of this and in the peculiar facts of the case, this court is not inclined to grant bail,” said the judge.
 
 
