It’s 5.45am. Two women, in their early 20s, are dragging a dozen mats inside a garden in Wardha. Some more come running in and start laying the mats on a rectangular cemented platform.

 Once done, they go inside a small room that has a few weights, giving it a pretence of a small gym. A tattered curtain draws a modicum of modesty and a changing room takes shape. A couple of minutes pass.
 
 When they step out, the women have left behind their rural simplicity. Their loose T-shirts and body-hugging shorts speak of their triumph over the highly patriarchal society that strongly disapproves of “clothes that reveal legs”.
 
 With their powerful shoulders, tightly tied hair and confident steps, you know that they belong here. The women are running and warming up when their coach ‘Sunitatai’ arrives.
 
 After a little somersaulting on the mats, the ‘kushti’ begins.
 
 In one stroke, Kiran is on Nilima’s back, pinning her down on the mat. Sunita interrupts and reminds them of a ‘locked hands’ technique.
 
 The first woman wrestler of her village, Sunita Tadas Mehere is preparing the women in a hitherto male-dominated sport in their town.
 
 The apparent of lack of success of Member of Parliament Ramdas Tadas and his daughter Sunita not winning gold at the national level has turned out to be a blessing for several villages in and around Wardha, Deoli and Hinganghat — all some 70-100 kilometres from Nagpur. In the last eight years, over 50 women have been trained by them and gone on to participate state and national events.
 
 “I am a happy man today. I goaded Sunita when she was 18 to take up wrestling, hoping to specifically inspire and popularize the sport among women,” says Tadas.
 
 When she started, Sunita was the only woman wrestler of her village. “Papa never had any personal ambitions for me. I was an exemplar for rural women,” she says.
 
 Their efforts did trigger a change — teenaged girls and young women embraced the wrestling world. “The number of female players is almost double than the males,” Sunita tells.
 
 She also managed to rope in former international player Ram Yadav to train the women. “Many of them are capable of playing at the international level. They are strong, sharp and know all the advanced moves and techniques. This, despite the place lacking good facilities,” says Yadav.
 
 Mats have replaced the traditional ‘akhadas’. “We borrow mats from a local stadium,” says Sunita. When mats are not available, it is a forced break for the wrestlers.
 
 For young wrestlers, it is a must to follow a balanced diet plan. “We have been told to drink milk with dry fruits and non-veg but we always don’t have the money to buy it. Sometimes, we drink soya juice for proteins,” says 21-year-old wrestler Nilima Dhote.
 
 When she got to know that an international player was providing coaching in Wardha, Nilima left her small taluka in Hinganghat about a year back and shifted to Wardha in a small room, which she shares with two other girls. “I would play judo in school but found my heart in wrestling. But at my hometown, I was not getting proper training. I would have left the sport if I hadn’t come here,” she says.
 
 Her father Ashok, who is a farmer, keeps coming to Wardha to see her practice. “In our village, girls are not allowed to step out of the house after sunset. Nilima could have never become a good wrestler if she was still there,” says Ashok. Last year, Nilima won the state tournament and qualified for the All India in Mysore.
 
 These women wrestlers not only face discrimination in villages but also in the sporting area. “Men pass lewd comments, without realizing how strong and efficient we are. We even play for hours during our menstrual cycles,” says 18-year-old Shalini More.
 
 Kiran Uike was studying in tenth standard in a small school of Talegaon village. Seeing her interest in wrestling, a classmate would call her names and humiliate her. “He once called me a ‘pehelwan’ and I showed him ‘pehelwangiri’. That was the first time I beat up somebody,” she recalls. Now 21, she stood third in a district level tournament and also played in the Nationals in Jammu and Kashmir.
 
 Sunita in her initial years would wear ‘sindoor’ to “save her from sexual assaults”. But she doesn’t approve of it anymore. “I want these girls to come out of such reservations.”
 
 Recently, Sunita took all the girls and some villagers for a special screening of ‘Dangal’ movie in a local theatre. “I don’t know what effect it had on the minds of villagers but my girls are at another level. They have become more regular with their practice now,” says Sunita.
 
 From his MP funds, Tadas is now constructing a wrestling stadium in Wardha which will be equipped with mats. The father and daughter are looking forward to share the glory and gold that the town is still waiting for.
 
 
