KOZHIKODE: The photograph of a three-year-old kid, who was dressed as Lord Krishna and allegedly tied to an artificial leaf for nearly two-and-a half hours during a procession in Payyannur on Tuesday, has sparked outrage in Kerala.

 The incident came to light after Payyannur resident Sreekant Usha Prabhakaran posted a photograph of the child on Facebook. “I saw this little kid dressed up as Krishna and he was tied to an artificial peepal leaf for hours atop a vehicle during the procession organized by  ,“ he said.
 
 “Initially I thought that it was a statue but then I saw the child shaking his head to avoid sunlight. I called up   immediately to convey the information but the response was rather cold. The person who picked up the phone said Childline has informed authorities concerned. I didn't pursue the case as I realized that there was no point in doing so as authorities did not bother to do anything. The I posted the photograph on Facebook with my comments,“ he said.
 
 But, Childline said they had taken all actions such a situation warranted. “As soon as we received the call, we enquired about the incident and found that the child was safe. If at all he was harmed or if there was anything that would hurt him, we would have halted the procession,“ said Amrutha KP, coordinator of Childline in Payyannur.
 
 She said policemen were also present at the venue. “We had enquired about the child's welfare and collected relevant details. We will be meeting the child and his parents in the coming days,“ she said.
 
 Amrutha said Childline is happy that citizens are concerned about the safety of children. “The allegation of the informer that we were rude to him is baseless. We talk politely to all informers,“ she said.
 
 However, Payyannur police said it did not receive a complaint about the incident. “We have not received any complaint from Childline or any other person,“ said an officer at the Payyannur police station.
 
 At the same time, Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights chairperson   said that the commission had issued recommendations on how children should participate in processions two years ago. The home department has issued orders based on our recommendation and we expect it to be implemented in all districts as per the district collectors order, she added. The recommendations specifically indicate the time children can be taken out during working days and holidays to ensure their safety with proper food and water for their nourishment, she said.
 
