
 A report accessed exclusively by Mirror details how rlys is pushing for staggered work hours to spare commuters the indignity of being mauled during rush hour.
 
 If the crush-hour crisis is staggering, so is its resolution.
 
 The   has sketched out a solution to the singular problem of saturation on   in a   which elucidates how   may be the way out for the crowd of 75 lakh daily  .
 
 The draft report, prepared by a multi-disciplinary consultancy of the railways called RITES, suggests that reorganising working schedules of offices and other employment centres will spread out the throngs of commuters over time, and hopefully make your morning commute more bearable.
 
 Mirror has a copy of the report, which will form the nub of imminent extensive discussions with state government and other stakeholders on how to realise this solution for the 86 lakh employees among 220 lakh people (Census 2011) in the eight municipal corporations and nine municipal councils of Mumbai Metropolitan Region.
 
 The report refers to case studies of other global cities — notable ones being New York, Brisbane and Avondale — when they found their transport system similarly burdened by booming growth in bygone decades. And while Mumbai may be peculiarly situated in time and on land, accommodating the needs of its projected population of 268 lakh by 2021 — expected to grow to 309 lakh over the decade after — lies in diversifying how and when its work force commutes.
 
 The ‘how’ implies long-term infrastructural solutions such as more freeways and flyovers, high-speed modern rails, expanding existing rail and road network, and other transport modes. The ‘when’ is more immediately useful in flattening peak hour traffic through:
 
 a) Staggered work hours
 b) Flexitime
 c) Staggered weekly offs
 
 A meeting held between Western Railway, Central Railway, and Mumbai Rail Vikas Corporation held on August 26 discussed these decongestion measures. Recently, railway minister Suresh Prabhu and chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had met to consider the suggestions in the report.
 
 Staggered hours
 
 To scatter the crowds, the government may prepare a framework under which organisations will distribute employees in three 8-hour slots separated by 120 minutes, or five 8-hour slots separated by 60 minutes. The slots will be scattered over 12 hours, say from 8 am to 8 pm. The slots may be rotated every month.
 
 Flexitime
 
 To reduce the number of workers travelling to and from work during peak time, another option is flexitime, or letting employees choose their working hours as per their convenience, within a set range of time. For Mumbai, this range is proposed to start between 7 am and noon, and end between 3 pm and 8 pm.
 
 The measure requires strong monitoring of the hours by the employer.
 
 Staggered weekly off
 
 Saturday and Sunday are the days off for a majority of firms, and since maintenance of trains is carried out on Sunday, it could be made a day off for everybody. So offs on Saturday-Sunday or Sunday-Monday may be considered.
 
 A study conducted by M/s Egis states that 58 lakh trips were made during morning peak-hour time of 8 to 11 in 2011. More than half of this — 31 lakh, expected to grow to 41 lakh by 2031 — were made in trains, and half the commuters were making hometo-work trips.
 
 Through the measures outlined above, at least 25 per cent of the 8am-11am trips can be shifted to 6am-8am.
 
 DK Sharma, the general manager of Central Railway, who also has the additional charge of Western Railway, said: “In my opinion, staggering office hours is the best shortterm solution to the crowding on locals.”
 
 Western Railway has supported the steps, but indicated that the time table would have to be modified. A high-level meeting will be held in the MRVC office next week to thrash out how the suggestions may be implemented.
 
