NEW DELHI: The   began on Thursday the first-ever judicial exercise to test the legality of a Muslim personal law provision, but restricted itself to examining the validity of the triple talaq mode of divorce, ruling out the scrutiny of nikah halala and polygamy.

 This sets the clock ticking for a pronouncement on whether the court can examine the claim of Muslim clergy that the controversial 
  has the sanction of the Quran and is, therefore, beyond the pale of judicial scrutiny. The SC bench commenced hearing on seven petitions on the first day of the court’s summer vacation.
 
 The bench of Chief Justice   and Justices Kurian Joseph, R F Nariman, U U Lalit and Abdul Nazeer outlined the narrow strip of Muslim personal law provision which it would test on the constitutional touchstone. “We will limit our scrutiny only to the validity of triple talaq. We will not go into the issue of polygamy and nikah halala. If we come to the conclusion that triple talaq is part of the fundamental right to practice religion, then we will not proceed further,” the bench said.
 
 The BJP-led government has rejected the contention of Muslim clergy represented by the   and various other outfits, saying the Constitution and fundamental rights guaranteed under it take precedence over personal laws.
 
 On Thursday, when the court declared it would only scrutinise the validity of triple talaq, the Centre reacted immediately through additional solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who said, “The Union government considers triple talaq, polygamy and nikah halala as personal law practices which militate against core fundamental rights — women’s right to dignity which is intrinsic to right to life guaranteed under Article 21 and women’s inviolable right to gender justice under Article 14.”
 
 The bench said, “We are not asking anyone to address us on anything except the validity of triple talaq. You (the Centre) can argue what you wish on Monday. We are informing you that in testing the validity of triple talaq, we are not wandering into examining the legality of other issues.” AG   will address the court on Monday on behalf of the Centre, Mehta said. Appearing for petitioner Shayara Bano, who was divorced through a letter with talaq scribbled thrice on it, senior advocate Amit Chadha said triple talaq not only violated the fundamental rights but created an unequal state of affairs for Muslim women.
 
 Senior advocate Salman Khurshid, who has offered to assist the court on this issue, said, “ Triple talaq is a non-issue. The court need not examine its validity. The right is given only to men possibly because they would be able to give financial assistance to women after divorcing her.” Chadha said, “ Many Islamic countries, including Pakistan, have banned divorce through triple talaq and this shows it is not s anctioned by the Quran.” The bench asked the counsel to submit laws enacted by Islamic countries which have banned triple talaq, indicating it was keen to study the objective of the legislation and the grounds on which the particular mode of divorce had been rendered illegal. The bench said it would be the best solution if Parliament enacted a law on this issue.
 
