PANAJI: The Brazilian football federation ( ) has decried  's refusal to release star striker   for the   U-17 World Cup in India.

 Vinicius, among the biggest attraction at the U-17 World Cup, was scheduled to arrive in Mumbai on Saturday, just days after the   final. Flamengo lost the final against Cruzeiro on penalties and Flamengo decided it was better for their star man to continue in the Brazileiro - Brazilian top division - rather than travel to India.
 
 "Yes, it is confirmed, he is not coming," a spokesperson for the CBF told TOI late on Friday when it became clear that Vinicius had not boarded the flight to India.
 
 TOI had exclusively reported in its Saturday edition that Vinicius had given his flight a miss and was instead training with the Brazilian club.
 
 "The player had the visa to India, we were expecting him for tomorrow morning, but today, Flamengo, after losing the Copa do Brasil final, decided to not allow him to travel," the spokesperson said.
 
 Flamengo's decision to hold on to Vinicius didn't go down well with the CBF with technical coordinator   blaming it on lack of common sense.
 
 "I understand that it was important for him to play in the (Copa do Brasil) final, just as it would be important to play in the World Cup. It's not a friendly one. The world wanted to see him there. Fifa has highlighted it on its website. I told the president that I did not find the decision right," Gaspar has been quoted as saying by Brazilian news outlets.
 
 Vinicius's absence from the team will leave Brazil with just 20 players for the U-17 World Cup. Fifa rules stipulate that players can be replaced only if they are injured.
 
 "I told this to the board of directors of Flamengo. I do not agree. I am deeply disappointed by this decision. Attributing a loss or victory for the release of a player for the national team makes me sad," said Gaspar.
 
 
 
 
 A day after the U-17 World Cup suffered the Vinicius Junior blow, doubts over the participation of England starlet Jadon Sancho emerged. According to a report in the Daily Mirror, Sancho is "at the centre of a tug-of-war" between Borussia Dortmund and the Football Association (FA). Dortmund are reportedly not keen to let Sancho play in the U-17 World Cup as they claim he is not up to speed with their fitness requirements. The youngster had moved to Dortmund from Manchester City on transfer deadline day for a fee in the region of £10m. The club would prefer the 17-year-old to stay back in Germany and train with the first-team squad as it would give them the opportunity to integrate him into their squad.
 
 If Dortmund succeed in stopping Sancho from playing the tournament, it will severely affect the star value of the event. It will also come as a huge setback for England's title hopes considering the fact that Sancho was player of the tournament during England's run to the final of the U-17 Euro Championship earlier this year.
 
 England open their U-17 WC campaign against Chile on October 8. 
 
 
