Meerut: At probably the same time that Shakeel Ahmad, 40, was shot dead on National Highway 91 while resisting the gang rape of his relatives, his pregnant sister, Nazreen, who the family was going to meet, gave birth to what doctors said was a healthy baby girl.   The pregnancy was the reason for the family rushing to the hospital in Bulandshahr late in the night. Nazreen lived in Khurja, 42 km from Bulandshahr, with her husband and in-laws. However, the family was informed that the pregnancy was going to be particularly difficult, with doctors going so far as to say that either the mother or the baby would survive.    Khurja had no medical facilities to speak of, and certainly not the kind of infrastructure that would help in the complicated pregnancy. It was Shakeel who convinced his sister and her family to get her shifted from Khurja to Bulandshahr. Shakeel himself was a scrap dealer and lived in Palwal with his wife and six children.    On Tuesday, at around 12:30 am, the family was informed that Nazreen had gone into labour at a private hospital in Bulandshahr. Shakeel, who was with his parents at their house in Jewar, 45 km away, arranged for some money, as did the rest of the family, and they got into a vehicle. That was the last time Shakeel spoke to Nazreen.    At 1:53 am, according to the FIR filed by Shafiq, Shakeel’s brother-in-law, the family spoke to Nazreen's relatives in hospital. Minutes later, the car in which they were travelling had a puncture and stopped 100 metres from Sabota village on the highway. When the driver got down to investigate, the vehicle was surrounded by half-a-dozen armed men.    “They snatched Rs 11,000 from Shakeel, Rs 32,000 from me, money and valuables from our female relatives, and attempted to gang rape them. When Shakeel tried to resist, one of the men shot him dead,” said Shafiq in the FIR, adding that after killing Shakeel, the robbers allegedly gang raped the women, including Shakeel’s mother and sister.    The murder happened at around 2 am. At a little past 2:05 am, Nazreen delivered a healthy baby girl. Both mother and child, according to officials, are in fine condition. Nazreen, whose life, as well as that of her baby girl her brother was instrumental in saving, has not been informed of the tragedy that occurred on Tuesday night. According to family members, Nazreen, who is in hospital, still expects her brother to turn up and share in her joy.