NEW DELHI: In a major revamp of the way it eavesdrops on phone chatter, the Special Cell of  , which primarily deals terror cases, is enhancing its call interception system. Officers have confirmed that the highly secretive project is being executed on a priority and the force is in the final stages of the process to procure advanced law enforcement monitoring facilities (LEMF).

 The new LEMF will allow the cops to overhear 120 calls simultaneously, sources said. What is being set up is not just a central monitoring system, but an entire network of around 100 computers and high-speed servers, equipped with powerful 128GB DDR4 RAMs. These are expected to run up bill running into crores of rupees, officers privy to the plans confirmed. 
 
 The New Delhi range of the Special Cell will get a major portion of the acquisitions with 36 computers and servers. The south-western and northern ranges, which focus on organised crimes, will get 20 each, while the southern range will bag 15. A set-up of five computers and the central server will be installed at Police Headquarters and will be overseen by the DCP (Special Cell).
 
 However, though a central monitoring system is expected to check any misuse of the facility, it is unclear if the Union ministry of home affairs has given the project a go-ahead. Last year, it had objected to the increasing demands for interception approval made by Delhi Police and sought a detailed action-taken report on the hundreds of numbers that it had approved in a six-month period.
 
 Under the phone-call intercept protocol, the Delhi Police commissioner, DGPs of states, and eight other agencies —  , Research & Analysis Wing, Narcotics Control Bureau, Central Bureau of Investigation, National Investigation Agency, military intelligence of the defence ministry and the   are authorised to intercept calls with the prior approval of the home ministry.
 
 The Special Cell is the nodal agency in Delhi for call interceptions. It can give extensions upon approval to police stations. On average, the union home ministry okays around 5,000 requests made by these agencies.
 
 In 2014, the government notified a fresh set of procedures for legal interception of calls under Section 5 (2) of the Indian telegraph Act. However, rule 419A of the Indian Telegraph Rules allows for lawful interception of phones without prior approval under unavoidable circumstances. However, such interceptions have to be approved within seven days.
 
 Lawful interception of calls aids enforcement agencies in obtaining network communications in a clandestine manner. The intercepted data, called handover interfaces, is categorised in three levels, with the one codenamed HI3 being the most critical, an officer explained, because it contains the content of the intercepted communication and can be used by law enforcement agencies as leads or evidence against a suspect.
 
 
