BENGALURU: Police seized 110gm of  , allegedly from the   driven by Vishnu, 27, a grandson of late MP and industrialist DK Audikeshavulu Naidu, after it rammed a   Wednesday midnight, and ended up on the footpath at South End Circle in Jayanagar. Vishnu, a businessman, is in the dock after police registered two cases against him — for allegedly crashing his SUV, worth Rs 2.8 crore, into the van and possessing  . Jayanagar traffic police confirmed that the Merc, bearing a Puducherry registration number (PY 05 C 7471), was in the name of Geetha Vishnu, and was being used by Vishnu.

 The Omni, in which a family of seven was travelling, was allegedly hit by the speeding Merc around 12.15am. Kaisar Khan, 35, and his family sustained minor injuries. The Merc came to a halt after riding up the pavement, as the driver apparently lost control of the SUV .
 
 The public caught Vishnu and assaulted him before handing him to police. “Vishnu's three co-passen gers left the scene. We have to find out who they are," police said. Vishnu was rushed to Mallya Hospital, where he is under treatment.
 
 Meanwhile, traffic police informed law and order cops as there was chaos at the accident site. Jayanagar police rushed to the spot and found 110 grams of ganja in the vehicle and registered a case against Vishnu, a cop said.
 
 “We registered two cases against Vishnu, one with Jayanagar traffic police for allegedly ramming his SUV into a van at South End Circle and another with Jayanagar law and order police for allegedly possessing ganja in his vehicle,“ DCP (South) SD Sharanappa said.
 
 According to police, Vishnu said in his statement that “his driver Santhosh was at the wheel and he was sitting in the front seat. Soon after the accident, the driver escaped". But eyewitnesses informed police that Vishnu was driving the car and police are examining   footage at the signal.
 
 Police have sent Vishnu's blood samples to the Forensic Science Lab to check if he was drunk or had consumed ganja at the time of the accident.
 
