NEW DELHI: The   has launched a mission to erase commonly observed inadequacies and deficiencies derailing the criminal justice system even as its attention was drawn to the “pernicious” practice of clerks, and not judicial officers, recording depositions in trial courts in Delhi.

 Initiating this year’s first suo motu exercise in criminal matters, a bench of Justices SA Bobde and L Nageswara Rao issued notices to states and high courts to evolve a “general consensus on the need to amend the relevant Rules of Practice/Criminal Manuals to bring about uniform best practices across the country”.
 
 The   bench said it would not hesitate to issue directions under Article 142 of the Constitution, and asked the states and HCs to suggest remedies in deficient areas within the criminal justice system which had not been mentioned by senior advocate R Basant.
 
 Arguing in a criminal case, Basant said the nonuniformity in practices adopted by trial courts and high courts impede the speedy disposal of cases and protection of the rights of the accused as well as complainants.
 
 He drew the apex court’s attention to the “pernicious practice of trial judges leaving the recording of deposition to the clerk concerned and allowing recording of evidence (simultaneously) in more than one case in the same courtroom under the presence and general supervision of the judicial officer”. He said this practice has to be disapproved strongly and discontinued forthwith.
 
 Basant said: “A visit to Delhi trial courts any day will reveal this sad state of affairs, I am given to understand.” He complained that the evidence and deposition so recorded simultaneously in several cases generally delays typed copies of the recorded statements being handed over to the person who deposed before the court.
 
 Basant suggested that “the deposition of witnesses must be recorded, in typed format, using computers, in court, to the dictation of the presiding officer (in English wherever possible) so that readable true copies will be available straightaway and can be issued to both sides on the date of examination itself.”
 
 The senior counsel also said there was no uniform pattern for writing judgements by the trial courts and HCs. “Every judgement must mandatorily have a preface showing the name of the parties and an appendix showing the list of witnesses and exhibits of the prosecution and defence separately, court witnesses and exhibits and material object,” he said, and suggested a tabular form for trial court that would record the main events concerning the criminal case, including the date of arrest, release on bail, commencement of trial, closure of trial and the date of conviction and sentence.
 
 
 
