Every   office from California to Sydney has a Wall, but at their Gurgaon   the two walls you notice first are covered with artist Hanif Kureshi’s installation depicting the chaos of NH-8. A swarm of 3,000 Hot Wheels cars merging—congealing—in the notorious squeeze of the toll plaza, and then shooting out like an aerosol spray. 

 The cars, plenty of greens and yellows among them, are too colourful for a realistic representation of a   road, but then colour is very much the essence of a Facebook office.
 
 “The idea was to make an office that has synergies with Facebook offices across the world, but at the same time has a local connect,” says Carson Dalton, head of communications at Facebook.
 
 The local theme continues beyond the reception area as the door to the visitors’ room is labeled ‘MG Road’. This room is a riot of colours; its walls are covered in abstract patterns of orange, blue, yellow, green, pink and red. At one end, a man is tearing a white wrap off the painting, suggesting whatever it represents is incomplete. “Our journey is only 1% done,” says Dalton.
 
 The colours pop up again in the more sober ambience of the conference room, each one depicting a continent on a bare pillar, and perhaps hinting at what the unfinished mission is.
 
 The office at Two Horizon Centre, which opened last year, is smaller than Facebook’s two other locations in India, in Hyderabad and Mumbai, but it is where the company’s India MD Umang Bedi works out of. Bedi was away when TOI visited but his seat was neatly marked with a tag on the work floor. No corner offices here, nor designations.
 
  Everyone works as a team, sharing large white tables reminiscent of industrial workbenches. The industrial theme extends to the ceiling, which is done in the ‘open plenum’ or bare style favoured by tech firms. The only bright colour you will see up there is the red of the fire ducts.
 
 It is a quiet, cozy office with space for about 50—Facebook refused to tell its Gurgaon headcount—but only 10-15 staff work there at a time, people on the floor told TOI. The empty seats make the 19,000 sqft area appear bigger and more spacious than it is, although you can see all of it in a glance standing in any of the corners. Yet, people do mix up their meeting rooms, so there is a helpful office locator device. 
 
 “More often than not we are lost before a meeting, looking for the meeting room, this locator helps us spot it in no time,” says Dalton.
 
 Facebook’s California headquarters has a nine-acre rooftop garden, but even this small office has plenty of lounging and recreational spaces besides rooms for meetings and conference calls. Entertainment is served on iPads and Apple TVs while food is on the house. To ensure the team does not lose focus, each pillar is emblazoned with a nugget of Facebook wisdom about being bold, moving fast and creating something.
 
 And then, there is the Wall, of course. 
 
 It’s where staff gush their love for the job and the office. Whiteboard markers stand ready on both sides and letters from different Indian scripts painted on the floor license everyone to be themselves. 
 
 “Our best days are ahead of us,” says one among the dozens of scribbles. “Fab office, I just won’t be able to work in such a mind-blowing place,” cautions another. 
 
 That must be the only downside to a great workplace.
 
 
