SHIMLA:  , in its meeting held in Shimla on Friday, decided to regularize the services of around 3,000 part-time water carriers and water carriers-cum peons who were working on daily wages in education department and were appointed under 1996 and 2001 policy. 

 Cabinet decision would cost around Rs 60 crore extra on the state exchequer. It was decided that those having completed 14 years continuous service in last year till March 31 and September 30 would be regularized as peons against the available vacancies throughout the state.
 
 It also decided for framing   of Proprietary Rights (in certain cases, for small and marginal farmers) on Government Land Scheme, 2017. State assembly had passed a resolution on August 28, 2015, which stated that though the government is committed to take appropriate legal action against encroachment on government land but at the same time government is sensitive towards the welfare of small and marginal farmers, landless, homeless, poor and backward sections of the society. Keeping in view, the problems of these sections who are occupying government land out of helplessness, the House passed a resolution for framing an appropriate policy to provide relief to them.
 
 A major decision was also taken by the cabinet to issue bonafide Himachali certificate to the women from the state who are married to persons having their permanent home outside Himachal. This has been done with a view to give them security for rest of their lives.
 
 Cabinet gave its nod to introduce draft bill (Prevention of Violence and Damage to Property Act, 2009) in coming session of state assembly pertaining to prevention of violence against medicare service persons and damage to property in health institutions in state and also to provide for imprisonment, fine and provisions for payment of compensation for damage or loss caused to the property in the medical service institutions by the offenders.
 
 With an objective to maintain male-female sex-ratio and to provide good ambience for overall development of girl child, the cabinet gave its approval for ‘Himachal Pradesh Panchayat Balika Guarav Puruskar Yojna’ under which a provision of Rs 10 lakh has been made to the Panchayats maintaining the best sex-ratio.
 
 Cabinet also decided to acquire the land adjoining   at Sarahan in Shimla in the name of art, language and culture department with a view to preserve the sanctity of the temple and exploring ample scope for its beautification and security.
 
 
