AGRA: Repair and upgradation work at the two   in the city at Jeevani Mandi and Sikandra has finally started, after much delay. Under the ongoing  , the   will develop the water treatment plants at a cost of over Rs 100 crore.
 
  The Jeevani Mandi water treatment plant was established around 120 years back. But the machines and infrastructure currently in use were set up about 60 years back. This plant is in poor condition. The Sikandra water works station was established in 1997. The Jeevani Mandi station has a capacity to supply 225 million litres per day (MLD) of treated water and capacity of the Sikandra facility is 144 MLD. Of the two treatment units at Sikandra, one is not functional and will be overhauled.
  
  The amount of water treated at Jeevani Mandi is much less as compared to its capacity. The meters to measure the rate of flow of treated water are not in working condition. According to the sources, around 150 MLD of water is treated at Jeevani Mandi.
  
  The Jal Nigam had earlier received funds under   National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) scheme but even after the tendering process, the much required rehabilitation of water treatment plants could not be done due to the lackadaisical approach of Jal Nigam officials.
  
  According to Jal Nigam officials, the cost of repairing and upgradation of the two water works station will cost around Rs 110 crore. Rs 20-25 crore will be invested on the Sikandra water works plant and Rs 80-85 crore will be spent on upgrading Jeevani mandi water treatment plant.
  
  Jal Nigam project manager   said, “At both the plants, repairing and upgradation work has started and will continue for at least six months. The non-functional water treatment plant at Sikandra is 20 years old and requires overhauling. Machines and other infrastructure at this plant will be repaired and suitably replaced. The Jeevani Mandi water treatment plant is in better condition and does not require major upgradations”. “Ideally, water treatment plants require repair and rehabilitation work every 15 years.”
  
  One of the two 144 MLD capacity water treatment units at Sikandra is in working condition and is based on Moving Bed Biofilm Reactor (MBBR) technique. The other unit's capacity is also 144 MLD and once it is functional, the total capacity of Sikandra water works will be 288 MLD. Parts of the city reeling under water scarcity will not face water problem again.
  
  Under the Gangajal Project, a 160 km pipeline will be laid from Palra headworks in Bulandshahr’s Upper Ganga Canal to the Sikandra Water Works plant in Agra for supplying Ganga water.
