Rajkot: Former director of   (BNHS), Dr  , has come down heavily on the   government and accused them of converting   into ‘public park’ and ‘violating’ the Wildlife Protection Act.

 TOI has earlier reported about destruction of the sanctuary and protests by bird watchers in Jamnagar.
 
 In his report ‘Destruction of Khijadiya Bird Sanctuary’, Rahmani has stated, “The erstwhile wonderful Khijadiya Bird Sanctuary has been converted into a public park, with wide roads, paver-covered pathways, lots of white-coloured benches, Burmese Bridges, garden plants, toilets with no water connection and an atmosphere that is totally against the rules of Wildlife Protection Act.” 
 
 He further went on to say that the “general impression now one gets in Khijadiya is that it is a public park, more for amusement of visitors, and less of a sanctuary for birds. “During my visit (February 25), I did not see any serious bird watcher with binoculars, but lots of people, young couples particularly, roaming around, ‘enjoying the park’, sitting on benches, or climbing machan, talking loudly, listening to music, and children running around. There was no one to stop them,” Rahmani stated. 
 
 “I request Gujarat government to stop further destruction of Khijadiya. In order to see that such destructive developments do not happen again either in Gujarat or in other states, strict departmental actions should be taken under the Wildlife Protection Act against whosoever was responsible for such developments inside a sanctuary,” the noted ornithologist said in the report.
 
 He added that shooting of marriage or party videos should be strictly prohibited, as such activities are not allowed under the law. “Now, Khijadiya Bird Sanctuary appears like a cheap urban public park with hedonist and rowdy visitors. How such things are allowed can be explained only by the authorities,” Rahmani observed.
 
 He suggested that if government wanted the Khijadiya Bird Sanctuary to be revived, the developments done should be withdrawn and wetland habitat should be restored. “There should be no opinion-based actions, only science-based steps should be taken,” Rahmani added.
 
