MADURAI: Though   is an integral part of the Tamil culture, it could not be conducted during the   in the last three years due to the inaction of both   and BJP, DMK treasurer   said here on Tuesday. AIADMK and BJP are cheating the people of Tamil Nadu by promising that they would get permission to conduct the rural sport, he said at a demonstration, in which DMK and Congress members participated. 

 DMK had planned a similar demonstration on last September 25, Stalin said. "DMK chief M Karunandhi had also given his consent for the demonstration. However, a BJP minister intervened and wrote to Karunidhi ensuring that jallikattu would be conducted in the next year and asked to cancel the demonstration. But, that has not happened," he said.
 
 "The  , on May 7, 2011, ruled that two Animal   members would be sent to Tamil Nadu to verify if the games were conducted as per the guidelines of the court. It was the report filed by Dr Abhishek Raje and Dr Manilal Vallyate that resulted in the ban of the game. When DMK was in power in 2010, we conducted the games successfully as per the guidelines of the court. Hence, it is the AIADMK that is responsible for the ban," he charged.
 
 The apex court had also said that the state government could pass an ordinance for jallikattu but that has not been done till date, Stalin said. 
 
 "There are nearly 50 AIADMK members in Parliament, but none of them have the courage to speak for the game. They are not bothered about protecting the culture and tradition of Tamil people. Prime Minister Modi should ensure that the people of Tamil Nadu are not deprived of the game," he said.
 
 "We don't know whether chief minister O Paneerselvam will be the chief minister tomorrow. But I would like to remind him that he has not kept the promise made to the people of Tamil Nadu in 2015 that jallikattu would be conducted this year," he said.
 
 DMK cadres from the southern districts and members of the Congress party, including Sudharashan Natchiappan and Ramasamy, participated in the protest.
 
