Gurgaon: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has decided to build a   between   and  , anticipating heavy flow of traffic between Delhi and Gurgaon when the new speedway becomes operational. 

 This junction will be integrated with a   coming up on the other side of NH-8, connecting it with Souther Peripheral Road. This will allow traffic between   and Dwarka expressway without touching NH-8. With both SPR and the Dwarka expressway nearing completion, this junction will become one of the busiest in NCR in future. 
 
 
  
 
 The trumpet and clover leaf interchanges are expected to be built around 1.5-2km before   toll on NH-8.
 
 Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav said the 3.8-hectare land identified by NHAI to build the trumpet interchange is in Sihi village. “The land is under HSIIDC (Haryana’s industry body) ownership,” said Yadav, adding they are working for early completion of the Dwarka expressway, the cloverleaf and the trumpet interchange.
 
 NHAI project director Ashok Kumar Sharma, in his letter to Huda, has requested transfer of the land at the earliest. “In case formal transfer takes time, in-principle approval to go ahead with the construction work, may be conveyed expeditiously,” said Sharma. 
 
 The NHAI official is preparing a detailed project report for the construction of the remainder of the Dwarka expressway, which will include the cloverleaf and trumpet interchanges. 
 
 Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar is expected to meet Union minister for road transport and highways, Nitin Gadkari, on July 20, to discuss the development and completion of infrastructure projects in Haryana, including the Dwarka expressway.
 
 The SPR originates from Gurgaon-Faridabad road near Ghata and meets NH-8 near Kherki Daula, and is proposed to be connected to the NPR through the CPR. The CPR starts from a place close to Kherki Daula village and meets NPR near Harbaru village. With Dwarka expressway granted NH status, CPR has also effectively become part of the Dwarka expressway, and will be built by NHAI.
 
 Construction of SPR is almost complete, and it is already connected to NH-8. Work on CPR is yet to start. Most of the stretch of Dwarka expressway within Gurgaon is complete, with only a 1.5km stretch in New Palam Vihar yet to be built. For the Dwarka expressway stretch within Delhi, where most of the unfinished work remains, NHAI has already started acquiring land.
 
