MUMBAI: In a six-page statement,   murder-accused-turned-approver   had told   in 2015 that after the murder he asked   for money but was refused and his service as driver was terminated after a few months. Rai denied this claim during his cross examination recently. 

 “No such thing had taken place that before I left the job (that) I had asked money from Indrani madam and she refused to give the same. I did not state to police that on August 24, 2015, I had asked Indrani madam to pay me the money but she refused,” Rai said during his cross-examination by Indrani’s advocate Sudeep Pasbola, on on August 8.
 
 The copy of the statement was submitted by the Khar police to the court on Tuesday. The court had asked for the official copy after the defence had questioned Rai on it. In the 2015 statement Rai said, “I asked Indrani for some money that I needed. But she refused to help me. In September and October she told me that she would never return to Mumbai. She asked me to hand over the flat keys and after showing the secretary of the building all the objects of the flat, quit the job and leave.” 
 
 On August 8, the hearing was adjourned after the original copy of the statementwas not before the court. The CBI submitted that the copies of that statement were furnished to Indrani, her husband Peter Mukerjea and ex-husband Sanjeev Khanna on the court's order last year. The court then directed the CBI or Khar police to submit the copy of the statement before it.
 
 Pasbola said that in future hearings, Rai will be confronted with the statement and the alleged contradiction. In November 2016, while telling the court that he wanted to turn approver in the case, Rai had said that he want to repent. On Tuesday defence advocate for Peter Mukerjea,Srikant Shivade submitted on the need the station diary in the Arms Case. Also present in court were Sanjeev Khanna’s advocates Niranjan Mundargi and Shreyansh Mithare. 
 
 On April 24, 2012, Sheena was abducted and murdered allegedly by Indrani, Khanna and Rai in conspiracy with Mukerjea. Rai was arrested on August 21, 2015, by Khar police in an illegal arms case. During interrogation, he told them about Sheena’s murder after Indrani and Khanna were arrested.
 
 
