THANE: The   (TMC) authorities have invited consultants to submit their   on the ambitious  . The project when implemented will connect Thane with Vasai, Kalyan and Bhiwandi towns, saving a lot of commuting time.

 “We have called for proposals from consultants who will help us design the DPR. The consultant will be finalized within 15 days who will submit the technical-feasibility analysis following which we will get into fund allocations and execution mode,” additional city engineer Anil Patil told TOI.
 
 The consultant will get a correct commuter density between these suburban towns, the number of jetties to be constructed and also the frequency of the speed boats between these towns. 
 
 The waterways transport system is said to be the pet project of municipal commissioner Sanjeev Jaiswal who had presented a draft plan to the state and the Centre last year and had secured their in-principle approval. 
 
 Initially, it was planned to build a water transport network connecting South Mumbai to Thane, but the civic administration revisited its plans and is eager to develop jetties at Gaimukh, Kolshet, Kopri to name a few along the city shores and connect them to nearby cities like Vasai and Kalyan. 
 
 The TMC and participating agencies like neighbouring corporations or the Mumbai Maritime Board will develop jetties at certain spots along the creek skirting the city to start the routes using catmarans, speed boats, etc.
 
 A cursory estimate by civic officials puts the density of commuters between these cities to be in lakhs well enough to necessitate and patronise the alternate mode of transport. Presently, these commuters have to use the rail and road networks. The waterway could prove to be a comparitively cheaper option, feel officials.
 
 A civic officer illustrates saying if a resident from Gaimukh wants to travel to Kalyan, it takes nearly over an hour presently to complete the roughly 40 kms or an equally time consuming and inconvenient bone crunching travel by train. In comparison, the water link will cut down the distance by over half and also clear up the road stretch as well, says the officer. If there is a launch service, it will also help carry his vehicle on board the way it is operated in few countries abroad and Goa closer home.
 
 “The city has a vast shoreline and exploring the same for transportation seems to be a viable option. We are looking at implementing this transport mode at the earliest and are in the process of preparing a detailed project report for now. This new mode of transport will considerably reduce strain on the existing modes of transport and also reduce air and noise pollution,” said Jaiswal.
 
 The TMC expects the detailed project report to be ready by June end following which the execution will be taken up. A senior officer said they will approach the state and other agencies like the Mumbai Maritime Board, environment ministry and the surface and water transport ministry for funding the project.
 
 
