SARAI AMEER (Azamgarh): Gangster  , a registered voter here, wanted to vote in the assembly polls. Behind bars in Mumbai, his family realised they’d have to cough up Rs 3 lakh to Rs 4 lakh for a bail bond. Making security arrangements would be way too complicated. So, they dropped the idea.

 Salem might have missed the bus, but not the thousands who’ve arrived from cities like Mumbai and from as far as West Asia, to vote on Saturday. Take Abdul Hamza, 24. A construction firm manager in Thane, he chats with friends at an Azamgarh restaurant owned by Salem’s brother Hakim and nephew Arif.
 
 As Hamza and friends wait for their meal, his mobile phone rings — the tune from the   hit Once Upon A Time in Mumbai. It revives memories of Salem, his notorious gangland life and alleged role in the 1992 Mumbai blasts.
 
 Mumtaz Ahmad, who is with Hamza, runs a Unani clinic in Andheri, Mumbai. He, too, is in his hometown to vote. In 1991, his father convinced him to leave the town for a career. The D-Company was hiring Azamgarh youngsters as sharpshooters and he didn’t want Mumtaz to get into trouble.
 
 Hakim avoids discussing Salem much, only says: “Well, things did not work out. He (Salem) couldn’t come. But we are happy so many from here are eager to do their bit for the city. We have produced greats like Kaifi Azmi and Shabana Azmi and entrepreneurphilanthropist Frank Islam.”
 
 In the 1980s and ’90s, thousands from Azamgarh went to Mumbai lured by dreams of making money in the ancillary businesses around Bollywood.
 
 Also at the restaurant is Mohd Rashid, 41. He’s a Dubai cloth merchant, wears jazzy shades and copies Amitabh Bachhan in Don. He insists Azamgarh got a bad name only because of some men.
 
 “Before reaching here last week, I bought gamchhas worth Rs 4 lakh as gifts and distributed them to people here. I urged them to vote for whichever party they want. Azamgarh must rid itself of its chequered past,” he says.
 
 Every day, at least 50-60 cars with Mumbai registration plates park near the crowded lanes off Eagle Market or Frank Islam Road. “Frank was here a few days ago. He’s building a cricket stadium here. He’s an inspirations for us. He fl ew in from so far, we drove 36 hours from Mumbai just to vote,” says Naushad, who now works in Bhiwandi.
 
