VISAKHAPATNAM: The Union government’s   project which was supposed to build rail overbridges or underbridges at railway crossings in the three north coastal districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam is still gathering dust.

 The Union government launched the project at the end of the 2015-16 fiscal. Union minister   reiterated on several occasions that the Setu Bharatam will make all national highways free of railway level crossings by 2019. “The project would prevent frequent accidents and loss of lives at level crossings. It is a prestigious project of the Union government,” Gadkari had said at the launch of the project.
 
 The overall project cost of Setu Bharatam is about Rs 50,800 crore for both railway and roadways. For railways, 208 overbridges and underbridges are proposed to be built at a cost of Rs 20,800 crore. 
 
 Of the total 208 bridges, Andhra Pradesh was allocated 33. Of them, Vizag-based Waltair division of the   (ECoR) was allocated nearly an half-dozen, official sources said.
 
 When TOI inquired about the progress of the project with officials, elected representatives and state government authorities, they said after the initial sanction by the railway authorities, there was no further progress of the project. 
 
 Srikakulam MP K  , who is a key member of the railway users committee of Waltair division, said 33 railover and underbridges were sanctioned for AP last year. Of them, two overbridges were to be constructed in his constituency — one at Srikakulam Road Railway station over the Chennai-Howrah main railway line connecting Srikakulam road and Hiramandalam road and the second one at Tilari railway station over the same railway line connecting Narsannapeta and Pathapatnam.
 
 “I don’t find any progress of the project till date. I have to check once again with the authorities including the railway whether there has been any progress at all,” Rammohan Naidu told TOI.
 
 ECoR sources said, “The project has not gathered any momentum and the negotiations and correspondence between the ECoR headquarters and Waltair division headquarters have been very tardy till date. Unless there is pressure from the political wings at the central level, it will not take off,” the sources said.
 
 When contacted, Vizag parliamentarian   was not available for comment on the issue as he was on his way to New Delhi to attend the budget session slated to begin on January 31.
 
