Nashik: The   has taken a stand in Nashik that the   adopted in Mumbai. 

 The party stayed away from fielding any candidate for the mayor’s post in Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) as five-time BJP corporator Ranjana Bhanasi on Thursday filed her nomination for the mayoral poll on March 14.
 
 The BJP had announced not to contest the mayoral poll in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Coproration, paving ways for the Shiv Sena candidate to be elected unopposed. 
 
 Prathamesh Gite, a first-time BJP corporator, filed his paper for the post of  . Congress’ Shobha Tadvi and NCP’ Sushma Pagare filed the nomination forms for the mayor and deputy mayor’s posts, respectively, to register their opposition. 
 
 The Shiv Sena and the MNS decided to remain neutral.
 
 In the recently held Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) elections, the BJP emerged victorious bagging 66 seats of the total 122. The Shiv Sena won 35 seats, while the NCP and the   bagged six seats each.
 
 The deadline for filing the nomination form for the election of the mayor and the deputy mayor’s was March 9 from 11am to 1pm. 
 
 The election to the post of the mayor will be held on March 14 at 11am. District collector B Radhakrishnan will represent the revenue commissioner as returning officer. Immediately after the mayoral poll, the election for the post of the deputy mayor will be conducted. The civic election was held on February 21 and the results were declared on February 23. 
 
 This time, the mayoral candidate’s post is reserved for the Scheduled Tribe. For the first time, the NMC will get a mayor from the tribal community. 
 
 Bhansi has already served four terms in the NMC as a corporator and is a senior party member of BJP. She won the recently conducted civic polls for the fifth time and was considered the major contender of the post. Gite is a first-time corporator and son of former MNS MLA Vasant Gite. He had switched loyalty from the MNS to the BJP after losing the legislative assembly polls.
 
 The Congress, which won six seats, and the NCP have also filed nominations as an opposition party.
 
 “Though our strength is less, we have filed the nomination to present our role as the opposition. We will perform the role of the opposition in a positive way,” Congress group leader Shahu Khaire said.
 
 “We will remain neutral,” MNS group leader Salim Shaikh said.
 
 Shiv Sena’s city chief, Ajay Boraste, said the party respected people’s verdict of electing BJP and did not field its candidate either for the mayor or the deputy mayor’s posts. 
 
 “It is not that we support BJP. We may boycott the mayoral election, if an election takes place. BJP said that they would rule with transparency. We will observe and be a good opposition. In decisions pertaining to city’s development we are with them. If a decision goes against the city’s interests, we will strongly oppose,” said Boraste.
 
 The BJP sprang a surprise in the city this time, defying its own estimate of winning seats and all guesses of political pundits. With 66 seats in its kitty, the party came to power in the 122-member NMC.
 
 The BJP's rise to power in the NMC was seen as a winning situation for Nashikites as far as development of the city is concerned. Civic officials were of the view that it was always a huge advantage when the party that holds power in the state and the Centre assumers office in the local civic body.
 
 For example, huge investments are needed to build the Kikvi dam, a special NMC initiative to meet Nashik's water requirements for the next 50 years. The financial resources of NMC would not be sufficient to come up with the massive project. So if the ruling BJP wills, the Centre and state governments could offer financial assistance for the key project.
 
 Similarly, the city could have grade separators and CCTVs at major chowks for smooth movement of vehicles and to make the city safer. The home department and local police have taken up the project of installing CCTVs in cities such as Mumbai and Pune for better surveillance.
 
 There will be immense pressure on the BJP to plan and act fast on various issues regarding the city's development.
 
 
