LUCKNOW: Seen as a communal cauldron after   and lynching over beef-eating in Dadri, Western UP is again on the boil as the state enters the extremely crucial last leg of assembly elections, with just two phases to go. 

 With a series of what seemingly minor incidents rapidly taking shape of communal clashes in the recent past, most of the districts in the region are simmering with tension, keeping police on their toes.
 
 What has however emerged as a new and rather dangerous pattern is a fact that the region, which was somewhat silent during the elections, is showing signs of restlessness and communal upheaval after polling was held on February 11 and 15 respectively. Even minor altercations and road mishaps are leading to law and order crises. Senior police officers admit that a scenario indicated that all was no well in West UP.
 
 The Bulandshahr incident where a video which reportedly showed a man using objectionable language against gods and goddesses went viral triggering off a communal clash was just an indicator of the extent to which the atmosphere was surcharged in and around the district. Mobs went berserk damaging shops owned by another community. The two sides indulged in heavy brick-batting leaving three hospitalized. 
 
 What happened in   on February 25 was even more baffling. A minor altercation between a Dalit and a Muslim youth in Khadarwala area led to panic.
 
  The heated exchange that took place a stones throw distance away from a Maha Aarti function at  , saw the communities came face to face leading to sporadic incidents of stone pelting. The incident saw shopkeepers down their shutters and the market place was deserted in no time.
 
 Senior police officers in the region however a design behind whipping up communal passions in the region. "In two separate incidents, pieces of meat were found outside a temple in the district and at a farm field. The size of the pieces suggested that they were probably of a bovine leading to tension," said a senior IPS officer adding that such incidents are a result of some conspiracy as they require planning. In both the incidents the police acted swiftly and managed to contain the situation in time.
 
 "It is a matter of concern we are taking no chances. To ensure quick police response, we have not withdrawn police personnel from UP-100 service despite the fact that almost half of the district police strength is out of station for election deployment in the entire West UP region," says Director General of Police (DGP) Javeed Ahmed.
 
