BHIWANDI: Police probing the murder of Congress corporator Manoj Mhatre (53) have registered a case against his cousin Prashant Mhatre (35) and seven others. The case has been registered on the basis of the statement of Manoj's driver who witnessed the incident. Narpoli police and a crime branch team have launched a manhunt for the accused.

 On Tuesday , Manoj had gone to Narpoli police station to file a complaint about threats issued to his supporter Umashankar, alias Mulayam Yadav of Ramnagar area. When Manoj returned to his residence, Samrudhi Building, in Bhiwandi's Oswal Wadi area, some men waiting outside the complex attacked him.
 
 The attackers first shot one round at him and after he fell down, they stabbed him with choppers and later fled in a waiting car. Manoj was rushed to Jupiter Hospital in Thane where he died during treatment. He is survived by his wife and four children, including two sons and two daughters. Manoj, a three-time Congress corporator, was also leader of the house in the Bhiwandi­Nizampura Municipal Corporation.
 
 Police said Manoj had personal as well as political differences with Prashant, the son of his uncle Bhaskar Mhatre (65), who launched Manoj in politics in 2002. Sources said the rivalry dates back to 2012, when Prashant wanted to become a corporator and sought Manoj's help but he refused to help him. Prashant initially filed his nomination as a Shiv Sena candidate but later withdrew from the contest for unknown reasons. Manoj won the poll. In 2013, Prashant was arrested for shooting at Manoj, but was out on bail.
 
 Later, Prashant reportedly joined the BJP . The cousins were both gearing up for the upcoming civic election in Bhiwandi-Nizampura, likely to be held in April or May .
 
 Manoj Patil, DCP (zone 3) of Thane police said, “On the basis of the driver's statement, we have booked Prashant Mhatre, cousin of the deceased and seven other persons in the case. Our team will soon nab the culprit.“
 
 Footage of the assault was captured by a CCTV camera in the building, while other witnesses confirmed Prashant was present at the spot.
 
