BHOPAL: Actor  , who died on Friday, was very fond of   and its culture and had visited the city several times and made friends with lot of localities leaving an indelible impression on the mind. While in Bhopal, Puri spent his time mostly in the walled city. 

 While shooting for the Hollywood movie 'In Custody', Om Puri stayed put in Bhopal for about two months. He loved Bhopali cusine and people besides being a very down to earth person, recalled his friends and admirers.
 
 The news of actor's death shook the artiste fraternity in the state capital. Alok Chatterji, head of department of acting at MP School of Drama remembers Puri as a very simple man. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Chatterjee said, he had spent three days with students of the drama school at Bhopal in 2014. "He was a celebrity but never carried the air of stardom with him. He has done 14 Hollywood movies besides hundreds of Hindi films. His death is indeed a huge loss to film industry," Chattejee said. Recalling his interaction with students, Chatterjee said, Puri told them to have faith in their skills even if one does not have good looks. Senior theatre artiste Mukesh Sharma fondly remembered how the actor once asked him to explore Bhopal with him. 
 
 "I met him as a young theatre artiste a long time ago and the meeting was something I will always cherish. When he came to Bhopal in 1981, he asked me to show the city and for an entire night he visited many places like the Upper Lake and Moti Masjid," Sharma said. 
 
 'Hogaya dimag ka dahi' director Fozia Arshi, who is originally from Bhopal and now settled in Mumbai also shared her experience and said Puri was in love with the food of Bhopal. "My experience with him is unforgettable. He would make everything easy on the sets. He visited Bhopal many times and was in love with the local cuisine. His death is an immense loss," Fozia told TOI over phone from Mumbai.
 
 City-based fashion designer Mumtaz Khan also remembered the time spent with Puri during the shooting of 'In custody'. Khan was also a member of crew. Sarfaraz Hassan, a budding theatre director from Bhopal recalled the three years that he spent in Bhopal and said hesaw Puri travelling in autos many a times. 
 
 "He was such a noble person that he never showed off his stardom. He was an activist who would always be first to support any social cause. I have seen him travelling in autos, several times," Hassan said. Later in days, around 70 artistes assembled at   to pay tributes to Puri. Floral tributes were paid to the departed actor.
 
 
