BHOPAL: Air hostess with national carrier, Air India, Vineeta Shakya of Bhopal was a part of all women globe-trotter team that scripted history by flying an all-women crew flight around the world. The 16-member crew that took off on February 27 from New Delhi flew to San Francisco, and returned on March 3, covering 13 times zones over Pacific and Atlantic Oceans.

 Air India had commissioned Boeing 777-200LR aircraft with its only women team to mark the International Women’ Day. Right from the pilot to technical and non-technical staff on the aircraft were women, and was the first time they were assigned the task of flying 32,000 kms in about a week.
 
 “Since it was the first time that the flight was being handled by women for such a long trip with an eye on record, crew aboard was excited for the adventure,” said the 32-year-old airhostess who has been with the airlines for last 12 years. She has had the opportunity of flying with VVIPs including Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his foreign trips.
 
 With the travel time of 15 hours and ten minutes, the Boeing 777-200LR aircraft covered 15,300 kms from Delhi- San Francisco at a speed of more than 1,000 kms/hour. The flight while on its way to create history traversed 13 time zones, claimed the AI authorities. On return, the aircraft covered nearly 14,000 kms and took 15 and half hours. Because of the wind pattern, on return the flight took more time, the authorities added.
 
 According to Air India officials, the non-stop flight from Delhi to SFO travelled via the   and returned via the   completing around a trip of the world with 16 crew members and 250 passengers on-board. Not only the crew but the air traffic controllers, engineers, and ground handling staff were all women.
 
 Upon landing at San Francisco, the crew was ushered into a grand reception where they shared their record breaking flying experience. A fashion show was also organized with the crew walking the ramp, quite a special moment for them and later spoke to the audience about their historic flight.
 
 “I am from a very conservative family. Owing to this reason, I was admitted in a girls’ college. After completing graduation in computers (BCA), I wanted to do something different. While searching for such an option, I got to know about crew members’ job through friends. Fortunately, I saw an advertisement while my final year exams were on and without any miss I had applied for that,” said Vineeta.
 
 The airline had applied for a Guinness World Record and Limca Book of Records for this accomplishment. AI authorities claims that it was admitted. They are waiting for the formal correspondence from there.
 
 Vineeta Shakya is alumni of Radhakrishnan School, BHEL, and has done her graduation from Satya Sai Girls’ College.
 
