As   cases continue to climb in Tamil Nadu, the state health department has identified five taluks as hotspots of the vector borne disease and mobilised sanitary and medical taskforces in 10 districts.

 Against the backdrop of this spike, a review meeting was held by the ministers of health and municipal administration on Thursday.The ministers directed officials in both departments to step up vigil and ensure sanitation, especially in districts bordering Kerala and Karnataka, which have seen high prevalence.
 
 In June, the state recorded around 1,200 dengue cases, taking the total number of those affected to 4,400 since January - the second highest in the country after Kerala.
 
 "We are coordinating with officials across the border and sharing resources, including awareness materials to eliminate mosquito breeding sites," said health minister C Vijayabaskar. Healthcare facilities close to the border are receiving patients from neighbouring states and their details are notified to the district officials concerned. The municipal administration in the state is supporting the health department in cleaning drives and testing filters of water treatment plants attached to local bodies.
 
 Officials say drinking water stored in large containers in Chennai and surrounding districts to tide over the water crisis, and stagnant rainwater in western districts, have led to an uptick in mosquito population.
 
 Public health officials have identified clusters in Palani, Pollachi, Bhavani, Manapparai and Hosur where the incidence of the disease is high or prevalent over a prolonged period of time. In addition, hospitals in 10 districts have been put on alert. Officials have mapped three settlements in Erode, Pollachi and Palani which are seeing a mix of infections like typhoid and leptospirosis along with dengue.
 
 Director of public health K Kolandaisamy said the department was giving impetus to awareness campaigns. "Our officials are asking residents not to store water for long and get fevers tested," he said. But despite warnings, drought has forced families to store water, providing breeding grounds to mosquitoes.
 
 While the dry weather didn't place Chennai on the high dengue alert zone, it will have to wait for a week to see if the recent spell of rain has increased the vector count. Since January , around 100 cases have been reported. "Most of the cases we saw were either treated as outpatients or discharged after two days," said senior consultant paediatrician Dr Janani Sankar at Kanchi Kamakoti Childs Trust Hospital.
 
 
