New Delhi: On the last day of filing nominations for the civic polls, discontent within the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee over distribution of tickets came out in the open. Dr A K  , who served as a minister in the Sheila Dikshit government, threatened to quit the party, sparking speculation that Congress is heading for trouble ahead of the crucial elections. 

 The cause of his resentment lay in the manner in which DPCC chief Ajay Maken had distributed tickets. The specific point of contention was the seat, E 14 Laxmi Nagar ward, where Walia’s choice was denied the ticket. 
 
 “I am angry and disillusioned with the way ticket distribution has been done. After dilly-dallying for days, now they have denied ticket to the candidate I had recommended for one of the four wards in the Laxmi Nagar assembly constituency. We have been working in the area and if this is how the party treats someone so senior like me, then I should quit. I have written to Ajay Maken and AICC Delhi in-charge P C Chacko,” Walia said.
 
 However, Maken made it clear that the chosen candidate, Rajesh Pandey, would not be changed. He said that Pandey was not only “popular in his area, but he was also a choice of party workers at the grass roots”. “We have given tickets to three candidates recommended by Dr Walia. Only one ticket was not agreed upon and that was because the Rajesh Pandey was the choice of party workers,” Maken said. 
 
 Walia’s outburst is the first public show of unrest brewing within Congress. He was the senior most cabinet minister in the three-term Congress government, which ruled Delhi till 2013. He is known to be a low-profile party member and was a well-respected legislator in his tenure from Laxmi Nagar. 
 
 Walia said he was waiting to hear from the top leadership and will take a decision accordingly. He said he has been trying to meet Chacko. “The AICC Delhi in-charge is not meting me despite attempts to contact him since Sunday night,” Walia told TOI.
 
 Several other Congress leaders have also alleged irregularities in the ticket distribution process. Walia’s statements reflected a deeper problem of growing discontent and sense of disconnect that the old guard is feeling within the party. 
 
 Later, Maken claimed that the dust had settled and there was no turbulence in the party. “All Congressmen are valued partners and detailed discussions took place with all before deciding on candidates. Opinion of Congress workers played a very important role in decision making and for the first time, we recorded reactions of over 39,000 grass-root level workers at our call centre set-up to seek feedback on applicants for a ticket,” Maken said.
 
