KOCHI: He was touted as one of the future stars of Indian cricket after his exploits for   in the   and Champions League T20 in 2013 but   failed to justify the tag in the following years. Runs dried up in domestic cricket and critics even began to question his temperament and technique.

 In 2015, months after being elevated as captain of Kerala Ranji team, he was stripped of the post as a result of a string of poor scores. Last year, he even lost his place in the Kerala side due to alleged indiscipline and the   (KCA) formed an enquiry committee to probe the charges against him. He was let off by the state cricket body only after he tendered an apology. But one man who showed immense faith in the 22-year-old during the turbulent phase in his career was  , the Delhi Daredevils mentor. The former India captain who took Sanju under his wings at the Rajasthan Royals more than four seasons ago, has literally handpicked him wherever he has gone after that, be it India 'A' or the Daredevils. Despite scoring just 291 runs in   last season, Sanju was one of the three players who played all games for Daredevils last season.
 
 
 
 
 On Tuesday, Sanju repaid the faith shown in him by Dravid by smashing a blazing hundred. Though a man of few words, Sanju was quick to acknowledge the role played by Dravid in his career soon after his century knock. "We had a very good pre-season camp. We are blessed to have Dravid sir with us. So I came into the tournament in a happy frame of mind," said Sanju.
 
 Former Kerala Ranji coach  , who has mentored Sanju right from the beginning of his career, was also lavish in praise of his ward and said that Dravid's presence has had a huge influence in his career. "Sanju has become more focused after the crisis period during Kerala's last Ranji season. Moreover, working with Dravid has helped him finetune his skills," said Biju.
 
 Another person who has played a major role in Sanju's career in the recent months is former India stumper Kiran More. More came in touch with Sanju during a camp for wicketkeepers at the National Cricket Academy in Bengaluru.
 
 "I have always maintained Sanju is a great talent. This was an outstanding knock from him and I am absolutely delighted. Even when he was going through a rough patch during last season in domestic cricket, I told him to concentrate on the game and not to be worried about anything else.
 
 "I told him that he will only emerge stronger after the crisis. After the time we spent at NCA, we have been talking regularly on the phone. He always asks about the improvements he has to make in his game. It speaks a lot about his attitude towards the game," said More.
 
