   As many as 400 students of the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur graduated in 1967. Of the batch, 50 alumni contributed to an electronic document, Kal Aaj aur Kal, which has inspired this article. Kal Aaj aur Kal displays photographs of the idealistic youngsters of 1967 alongside their 2017 pictures. But what captures the imagination is an accompanying message from each alumnus on “What IIT taught.” The collection could be special for today’s youth.     The 1960s for India was a period like the one described by Dickens in A Tale of Two Cities, “It was the best of times, it was the worst of times.” It was the period of our youth, the peak of the Cold War, and Naxalites were yet to enter our colleges.    Ten expressions leap out from the compositions: small town/village origins, diverse friends, becoming cosmopolitan, exceptionally bright people, competitive, equality, multicultural, developing self-confidence, opportunities and human relationships. Really, could five years in a college campus matter quite so much to a bunch of innocent bumpkins?    Here are the five most frequently expressed sentiments of the alumni, now spread across the world:    l Overcoming fear of failure: Each one felt humility and was challenged by the unexpected diversity, of minds, languages and customs. Many had travelled out of their homes for the first time; they wondered ‘why tamarind was added to plain dal by the Madrasis’ and ‘how Punjabis could eat roti, morning and evening.’ Every freshman wondered whether he had the brainpower or social skills to succeed in college, let alone life. Most succeeded.    l Acquiring self-confidence: How does a diffident youngster acquire self-confidence? By exploring and doing things, by small failures and rebuffs and, above all, through the realisation that others too face the same predicament. Some regarded themselves as introverts, some felt inhibited by their vernacular schooling or small-town origins.    At age three, Ravinder Bhatia fled west Punjab after Partition in the arms of his parents. He studied in a Hindi-medium Delhi refugee school, and since he was studious, his brother suggested an electrician’s diploma at the polytechnic. On a friend’s suggestion, Ravinder took a crack at IIT and got selected to IIT Kharagpur where he studied a new-fangled subject called Naval Architecture. After graduating, he joined the Indian Navy, was sent to the University College, London for further studies, and rose to be a commodore.    l Making friends: This point is mentioned most often. The choice of hostelmates was not under our control, departmental acquaintances were chosen through entrance tests, so each student had to overcome inherent shyness to make friends with strangers. And many friendships have stood the test of time. “Friends made here have had a tremendous impact on my life,” affirms Bireswar Mitra.    l Importance of relationships: The image of tech students is that they are more analytical and logical than those in the humanities. Yet a very frequent response was centred on human relationships. Surely, IIT could not have taught these hard-boiled engineers to be emotional. Yet they were all gooey when it came to relationships. “Happiness is based on sound, long-lasting relationships,” avers Paritosh Gulati. Vinod Chachra reflectively writes, “I learnt to be an engineer, but also learnt the value of lasting relationships.” The Grant Study of Harvard arrived at the same conclusion after the world’s longest longitudinal study of happiness.    l Giving back : Most likely it was a lesson learnt not at IIT, but thereafter. “After 25 years as an electronics engineer in Canada, IIT facilitated my transition into becoming a social worker,” writes Hansa Nundy. “I completed my studies abroad and came back to India to help India get rid of poverty,” intones Bijay Sharma, who pursued an academic and research career. US-based Vinod Gupta recounts how he took his friend, President Clinton, to his village in Saharanpur. A vegetable seller called out to Vinod and revealed that they had been class fellows at the local Hindi medium school. Vinod told his distinguished visitor, “See, but for Kharagpur, I would be selling vegetables.” Gupta went on to make millions and become perhaps the single largest donor to IIT.    As revealed in a TED talk , an alumnus may or may not become well-known, but the successful ones are distinguished by what they give back — money, time or help.    