Sabbita Roi, who plays Meena in the serial  , is in the midst of controversy for an ‘ugly’ fight with Sukumar, the manager of Radikaa Sarathkumar’s production house. But the actress doesn’t want to hide from the world, especially from online attackers, who have been mercilessly targeting her, after the video of her fight with   was telecast by a television channel. It was alleged that she stayed in Sukumar’s apartment for two days while his wife was away and on the second day, a fight erupted between them, apparently for not paying her the promised money. 

 Ask her what really happened and she says, “I’m really saddened that such false news is being spread, and that, too, because someone videographed a fight between us. It’s true that I went to Sukumar uncle’s house in  . I consider him a father-figure. He hails from my native place — Pollachi. When he met with an accident a couple of months ago, he asked for some money and I gave him `20,000. But later, whenever I asked him, he kept saying that he would return it. I was pissed off by his attitude. On that particular day, when I telephoned him, he said that his wife had gone to her native place and he would be leaving that night along with his two sons. He asked me to come home and collect money. 
 
 I wanted to get back my money at the earliest and so, I went there. But he didn’t give me the money. I lost my cool and shouted at him. This happened in the parking lot of his apartment. When Sukumar uncle questioned me why I had come to his house, I played the recording of the call in which he had asked me to come home and collect the money. What we did not realise was that someone was videographing our arguments. This person gave the clipping to a TV channel and they played up the incident. This is how the issue was blown out of proportion. What was started by the television channel was picked up by the online media, and without bothering to verify the facts, everyone spread the false news.” 
 
 So, why didn’t she file a police complaint? She says, “I’ve known Sukumar uncle for a long time and it was a fight between us. Both of us feel sorry about what happened.” 
 
 She also says that after coming to know about the video, she went and met the person who had shot it and he apparently told her that he would never let it out. “The cops had arrived on the scene and they said that someone had videographed our argument. I went and fell at the person’s feet and asked him not to spoil my life and career. He said that he supported me and would never harm me. But just to increase the TRP of his channel, he destroyed me. What happened at 7pm in the evening was portrayed as something that had happened at midnight. And what was a lengthy top has been reported as a nightie. Is there any proof that I stayed in Sukumar’s house? Can anyone prove that?” asks a furious Sabbita. That being the case, why didn’t she prefer to file a case against this person? “Only after coming back home did I realize that so much damage had been done. I was flooded with calls and messages. I am a single woman with only my 63-year-old mother by my side,” she says. 
 
 So, what’s the status of her serial? “The production house called me asking for explanation. I think they will not continue with my character anymore. But what has hurt me the most is that Radikaa ma’am never spoke to me and didn’t give me a chance to speak to her. I’ve been associated with her production house for almost four years and I thought being a woman, she would understand my plight. I am left alone now, with no work in hand. But I have sent my statement through  ,” she signs off. 
 
