NEW DELHI:   has plunged headlong into campaigning for the upcoming municipal elections. With 198 candidates out of 272 declared so far, the party has started door-to-door campaigns and is taking forth the message of chief minister  . 

 The CM, in a 20-minute video, has exhorted the people of Delhi to   and rid the city of “garbage”. Released last week, Kejriwal’s video is being shown across the city on LED screens and projectors. The party is also promoting it actively on social media. 
 
 Sources said that all candidates are targeting an audience of 300-500 in each of the three shows planned in the evening in their wards. In the next 10-12 days, the party expects that close to 1 lakh Delhiites would have seen the video.
 
 “We have been able to take our message successfully to the people. Campaigning is on in full swing. In fact, in areas where our candidates have been declared, the presence of any other party is totally missing,” claimed a senior party functionary.
 
 AAP will fight these elections on corruption in the corporations and their failure to handle the most basic yet most important job — to keep the city clean. “The best way to reach out to most people in a personal way is to hold small sabhas where the video can be shown and discussed,” he added.
 
 In the video, Kejriwal has pitched for a corruption-free corporation and a garbage-free Delhi. “People have the misconception that keeping the city clean is Delhi government’s duty. This is actually the work of the municipal corporations. BJP and Congress have headed the corporations for the past 20 years and together they have looted it. The corporations earn thousands of crores each year, but where is this money? Why isn’t the city clean?” he says in the video.
 
 Using the emotional pitch of being constantly at conflict, the CM said that he has been fighting for the people of Delhi.
 
 Kejriwal has showcased works done by the   and drawn a parallel with BJP and Congress councillors who have done “nothing”. He says in the video: “Several councillors, who used to move around on cycles and scooters before the elections, now own big cars and houses. The money used for these cars and houses is our tax money.”
 
 
