Love is in the air. And it’s as cute as it gets. It can now be confirmed that Mumbai’s imported   penguins — much caught in the recent brouhaha between animal rights activists and authorities over their 
survival — have something brewing between them. Affirms Dr  , director of the city   where they are housed, “Yes, the penguins have found pairs with each other and we are glad about that. In this stage it is not uncommon,” he says. The penguins — three males and four females — are 2.5-3 years old (one of them had died earlier in October). “One of the females is too young,” he adds. It’s now all eyes on the birds and city folk are awaiting their public appearance, that’s reportedly slated for this February.
 
 Over the last two months, there has been a lot of to and fro over their debut. While the exact date is still to be decided, a senior civic official confirms, “The penguins are set to be on public display at the   zoo in February. The entry will be regulated for a few days initially till they settle down.” From then on till March end, the enclosure will be free for school children. “It is being proposed to have no fees for the kids as it will be a great learning experience for them. Their parents also may not be charged if they carry a valid identity card,” informed the official.
 
 
 Part of the construction work at the zoo saw a break in the wake of the recent demonetisation. “This was just regarding the revamp of the entrance plaza and pocket garden, which has now been done. The Jijamata Udyan has 53 gardens, and of these, work in 30 gardens is complete. As regards the enclosures, the work tenders are getting finalised for the same. The penguin exhibit is nearing completion as well. This will be a complete acrylic glass installation with material imported from Thailand. It has a front glass of 50 mm thickness, special lights and large rock work, which will make for nesting and resting area. Their display will follow standard timing. “It will be 9 to 5 as per the zoo timing,” informs Dr Tripathi. And are they expecting a ruckus as the date nears? “No, we are not worrying about anything and there is no such reason to feel so. We are ensuring that everything is being done according to standards,” he adds.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The next time you visit Jijamata Udyaan at Byculla, get ready for a fun selfie with ‘tigers, penguins and crocodiles’. That’s right. A special selfie point has been created right at the entrance to the gardens and it has life-size replicas of penguins, peacocks, tigers and crocodiles. In other revamp plans, people can also look forward to a refurbished entrance plaza and ticket counter. The glass panel to exhibit the seven surviving Humboldt penguins is also getting ready. 
 
 
 
