There is no dearth of romantic tales on Television, but there are only a few that stand out.   (Sonakshi) and  's ( ) love story is one of them. The show, which was pulled off air last month, is back on popular demand. And the new narrative holds promise. 

 This time around Dev is shown as a more responsible husband, who desires to spend his time with their newborn child, Shubh, and do all the things that he possibly could not with his elder daughter, Suhana. In fact, the episode starts with him trying to put Shubh to sleep after he begins to cry at midnight. Like any other couple, Dev and Sona's romantic moments are interrupted due to their family life. When it comes to their professional commitments, there is an important government project that requires   to be on-board. While she is in two-minds about it, Dev encourages her to resume work. However, things aren't as smooth. 
 
 On learning about Sona's going back to work within 5-months of maternity break, Ishwari (Supriya Pilgaonkar) isn't too pleased. She reminds Sona of her duties as a mother and how she should not ignore her responsibilities. Later, on seeing her disheartened, she asks Sona to go for the meeting. 
 
 The show touches upon a lot of issues that are relevant today. It breaks gender stereotypes as Dev looks after the babies and doesn't restrict Sona to household work. He renders his support to her and is shown to be a loving husband. Raising a child is no mean feat. It is interesting to see how Sona and Dev come together to raise Shubh and are equally adept at changing nappies. 
  
  
  
 The show also focuses on how a modern day woman has to struggle between her career and personal life, and the difficult choices she has to make along the way. Familial support, hence, plays an important role, and the show banks on that. 
 
 The dialogues used in the show are more real and relatable, specially the romantic ones between Dev and Sona. The characters including Ishwari's are not overdramatic. 
 
 Erica and Shaheer's pairing comes as a refreshing change on the small screen as both look their part. They share a great on-screen chemistry and act well. Their son Shubh, too, is quite a star and someone who will draw a lot of attention on the show. 
 
  2 has just begun and it remains to be seen how things pans out. For now, the show is engaging and looks promising.
  
 
