Trichy: Though there have been talks about   sensitisation for over two decades the society is only moving backwards without any notable change, said superintendent of police, Southern Railway, Annie Vijaya.

 Interacting with students at a programme organised by the Gender Champion Club members of colleges affiliated to Bharathidasan University on Thursday, she stressed that the youth and students should be sensitive towards the issue so that gender equality is realised.
 
 The event was jointly organised by the Department of Women’s Studies and the Gender Club of Jamal Mohammed College, Trichy, at Jamal Mohammed College. 
 
 Annie Vijaya said though the gender sensitisation programme for police officials started in 1995 is continuing till date, no notable change has been realised. The youth and students should be sensitive towards the issue so that gender equality can become a reachable goal, she added. 
 
 She threw light on her challenging experiences as a poilce officer guiding her male subordinates. “Leading subordinates is always challenging for a female officer than a male. That’s the difference which has to be wiped out,” observed Annie.
 
 Head of Women’s Studies department N Manimekalai, while explaining the UGC’s direction to initiate gender champion clubs in colleges and universities to promote gender equality among students, stressed on the need to question the existing patriarchal norms in society — in terms of family, caste and religion.
 
 On a male-centric thinking being promoted through various social institutions, including family, state, law, media, epic, caste, religion, literature and culture, she said the gender champions must understand the intersections of gender by promoting equal power relationship between men and women.
 
 Touching upon the need for scientific questioning of the impositions by various institutions, she urged the gender champions to be real champions by inculcating critical thinking and reviewing their own perceptions on gender.
 
 The inequalities in the society are organised and the subordinate, suppressed and oppressed group has historically been suffering as a result and so reservations have been accorded to this group of people. She cautioned the champions not to misunderstand reservation as a concession offered to the oppressed, but as a compensation for the disadvantaged sections who were devoid of equal opportunities. So equality can be achieved only by extending equal opportunities, she said. 
 
 William John Bosco, Associate Prof and Head, Department of English, EVR College, was also present. Students and teachers from 15 colleges participated in the programme.
 
 
