With the seventh and penultimate season of   right around the corner, fans are at the edge of their seats to see know what happens next.
 
  
 
  
  As the show gears up for its mega Indian premiere, next month, in July on Star World and Star World HD, audiences must already know that this month is not going to be an easy one as more theories make their way to internet fan bases and cast members play their verbal hide and seek game with the media and the ardent followers of the show.
  
  The spree seems to have already begun as actors Kit Harington aka   and Nikolaj Coster-Waldau aka Jaime Lannister, showrunners Dan Weiss and   as well as co-executive producer   have all spoken up about how Season 7 is going to be different from the other seasons.
  
  Nikolaj admitted to getting shocked upon reading the Season 7 script, “I’m like, ‘Already? Now?! What?!” He further said fans should brace themselves, “I feel like I’d been lulled into a different pace.
  
  Everything happened quicker than I’m used to … a lot of things that normally take a season now take one episode.”
  
  Kit Harington seconded him, “This season is really different than any other season because it’s accelerating toward the end, a lot of stuff collides and happens much much quicker than you’re used to seeing on Thrones … it’s so different than what everybody is used to. It’s quite exciting.”
  
  It’s quite obvious for us to think that the fast pace is due to the fewer number of episodes and just one more season left to finish the story.
  
  However, showrunners DB Weiss and David Benioff said that isn’t the case, “Things are moving faster because in the world of these characters the war that they’ve been waiting for is upon them,” Weiss explained, “The conflicts that have been building the past six years are upon them and those facts give them a sense of urgency that makes [the characters] move faster.”
  
  David Benioff said, “For a long time we’ve been talking about ‘the wars to come. Well, that war is pretty much here. So it’s really about trying to find a way to make the storytelling work without feeling like we’re rushing it"
  
  Co-executive producer Bryan Cogman added to this saying, “There are White Walkers and dragons and once they start to come together the story has to go where it goes.”
