NEW DELHI: For the family of   - victims of a hit-and-run in Paschim Vihar on February 6 - finding the person responsible for their deaths was like looking for a needle in a haystack. Police had given up, but the family didn't.

 Using basic investigative tools and determination, they succeeded where professionals had failed. Within two days, the family had traced the car and handed over the details to the cops, leading to the driver's arrest.
 
 A speeding Renault Kwid had smashed into the couple while they were on their way to a wedding near Paschim Vihar Metro station. The impact flung them several feet in the air. The driver had simply reversed and fled, daughter-in-law Maya said.
 
 
 
 
 The only clue the family had was the account of eyewitness Amit Kumar, who had tried to chase the car. 
 
 He had noted the registration number and said it ended with TC and 38, which meant it was a temporary number given before actual registration. Amit had also called cops and helped them rush the couple to the hospital. They died during treatment. The couple's son-in-law, Gopal, said the cops initially registered a case against unknown persons and claimed that the vehicle could not be traced using the two digits of a temporary registration number.
 
 "The investigating officer had told me many vehicles from the same production batch are provided with the same number which made it very difficult to trace. After this we started tracking the car ourselves," Gopal said. He visited regional transport offices to find out whether any such number was issued recently. He got no information there.
 
 Gopal then approached the Renualt showrooms in Moti Nagar and Janakpuri. There, he was directed to another dealer. "They also couldn't identify the car but helped me identify another dealer. They directed me to a showroom in Kailash Colony, south Delhi," he said.
 
 "The Kailash Colony dealer agreed to give me information on the customer after much persuasion. The showroom did not have complete details as the customer in a hurry to leave. However, they provided me with the phone number," said Gopal.
 
 Gopal said, during these investigation, a policeman tried to convince him to give up the search. "I complained about him to his seniors at the police station as I had recorded the conversation," he said.
 
 Other family members also got into the hunt. Armed with the complete temporary registration number, they approached the RTO. It was found that the vehicle was insured recently on an address that differed from what the owner had provided while purchasing the car.
 
 "It was registered in the name of one Shakuntala Kaushik, resident of Shahpur Jat, but the insurance showed the address of a village in west Delhi. We decided to check the latter address and found the car - a cherry red Kwid - parked in the house," said a family member.
 
 Gopal called the car owner, Shakuntala, posing as a customer care executive and wanted to inspect the car. She, however, refused saying they were travelling.
 
 The owner's lie nailed the case. The family provided the details to the area SHO, who ordered the arrest of the driver -the owner's son Anuj Kaushik. There was, however, no way of finding out whether Kaushik was drunk when the crash took place. "That would have attracted a higher punishment," said Maya.
 
 "We registered a case on the basis of the eyewitness account and arrested the youth," said a senior police officer. Anuj was later released on bail.
 
