Gurgaon: Arising over arid wasteland on Delhi’s outskirts as the preferred destination of local and international business and commerce in India, it was inevitable Gurgaon would be a hedonist’s delight. 

  — the food and entertainment destination with faux-European look and feel — was planned to be the one-stop  . The first-of-its-kind food,   and party joint hosts 35 outlets, including  , restaurants, breweries and patisseries, generates annual revenue of around Rs 266 crore, and provides employment to over 2,500 people. 
 
 A shadow hangs over all that with the Supreme Court’s March 31 ruling that bans sale of liquor within 500 metres of national and state highways. Cyber Hub is just off NH-8 that bisects Gurgaon. 
 
 Some of Cyber Hub’s major revenue generators — The Wine Company, Soi7, Farzi Café, Social, Imperfecto, Smaaash and   — are also among those who are most worried as they await the excise department’s measurements from the highway. “The bigger names make more revenue, but they also employ more people,” said a restaurant owner. In the last three days, since Saturday, the estimated loss to the liquor outlets, is around Rs 73 lakh daily, said sources. 
 
 Since April 1, most of the outlets are running at a fraction of their capacity. Consequently, service staff at each outlet has also been “temporarily” downsized. Other places have completely shut down, like the popular micro brewery, Soi7. A board on the door reads “We are closed for renovation”. An employee said with their maximum business coming from sale of liquor, there was no point in opening the joint.
 
 Most restaurant and pub owners TOI approached declined to speak, saying they are waiting for more clarity. However, off the record, they were ready to point out that business has suffered substantially. “We’d rather not comment on anything unless we hear from the administration first. However, it’s undeniable the ruling has had a huge impact on business,” said a bar owner.
 
 Restaurants in Cyber Hub required an initial investment of around Rs 2 crore, with breweries hitting the Rs 4-5 crore mark. The latter are also ones suffering the most, especially because brewing beer is a continuous process, and stopping and starting is difficult, time-consuming and financially ruinous.
 
 “Unlike a bar, which can be sealed easily, excise officials had a tough time sealing the machines at our micro brewery. They eventually sealed the taps, but by a week, last week’s entire batch will have rotted inside the machines, damaging them,” said a micro brewery owner, requesting anonymity.
 
 
