HYDERABAD: The initiative to install CCTV cameras in the city as a part of community CCTV project seems to be yielding results as several high-profile crimes were cracked with the help of these electronic eyes.

 After custodians of the   lodged a complaint with the Shahinayatgunj police about the burglary , police checked CCTV cameras near the crime scene at Jummerat Bazar.“CCTVs at   in   and Begum Bazar Chatri captured the culprits. We saw two offenders boarding an auto at Jummerat Bazar and the third offender joining them at Chatri with bags in their hands. The auto's registration number was captured in the footage,“ West Zone DCP A Venkateswara Rao said.
 
 Based on the registration number of the auto, police identified the driver as Abdul Rehman and immediately contacted him. Rehman told police he dropped the trio near   Hotel in Secunderabad. Police then analysed the CCTV camera footage at Alpha Hotel and, after observing the movement of the offenders, checked footage at a sweet shop next to Asian Tours and Travels and HP petrol pump near Secunderabad railway station.
 
 Police then realized that the trio had gone to the travel agency and found that the offenders had purchased tickets to Indore.Cops immediately contacted the bus driver and sent him photos of the accused on WhatsApp. The bus driver confirmed that the trio had changed their shirts, but were still seated in the bus which was in Nanded at that time. The Hyderabad poli ce sought the help of their Nanded counterparts and nabbed the trio. CCTV cameras played a key role in solving sensational crimes like the Abhay Modhani kidnap and murder case and former Greyhounds cop Obulesh opening fire at Aurobindo Pharma vice-president K Nityananda Reddy near KBR Park.
 
 Hyderabad police commissioner M Mahendar Reddy said CCTV cameras were crucial in identification of accused instead of rounding up multiple suspects. “With the help of CCTV camera footage, we can now ascertain how many offenders participated in a crime and their details, making it easier for the investigating officer to focus only on the suspects,“ he added.
 
