SHAHJAHANPUR: A   in Shahjahanpur was the centre of heated protests by residents after it allegedly dispensed a Rs 2,000 note that was a scanned copy of a genuine note. After bank officials refused to acknowledge that the counterfeit had been disbursed by the ATM, the incensed customers put up a mass protest.
 
  The incident comes after SBI ATM in Delhi coughed up Rs 2,000 notes which said they were issued by ‘Children Bank of India’. On Thursday evening, Arvind Gupta, a jeweller from Jalalabad area of Shahjahanpur went to the SBI ATM nearby to withdraw Rs 10,000. The ATm duly gave him five notes of Rs 2,000 each.
  
  “Of these, one note, with serial number 5 DN 029593, was clearly counterfeit. The paper was not the type on which currency notes are printed. On exiting the ATM and holding the note up to the light, I could clearly see that it was not genuine and appeared to have been scanned from a genuine note and then printed,” Gupta said, adding that there were four persons behind him in the queue who witnessed him withdrawing the fake note.
  
  Gupta immediately rushed to the bank branch adjoining the ATM. Although the branch had shut for work, there were still some staff inside, to who Gupta showed the note. However, the staff allegedly refused to acknowledge that the counterfeit note was issued by the ATM.
  
  “They just wanted me to go away. The bank manager, J P Chandel, was on leave on Thursday and the staff told me to meet him on Monday,” Gupta said.
  
  However, the jeweller refused to leave the branch and called up other locals as well as bank customers in the area to stage a protest. Gupta later filed a complaint to the sub-divisional magistrate of Jalalabad and the station officer of Jalalabad police station.
  
  Since the bank staff themselves refill the ATM in the area, if the counterfeit note was actually dispensed by the machine, this implies involvement of bank staff, Gupta alleged.
  
  “We have received a complaint from Gupta that the ATM was dispensing counterfeit currency. We will investigate the matter when the branch re-opens on Monday,” said superintendent of police (rural) RK Bhartiya.
  
  However, bank manager J P Chandel has dismissed the possibility of the counterfeit note being disbursed by the ATM. “All the currency is refilled by our own staff. Gupta seems to have found just one note. Why would someone risk their job for just Rs 2,000? It seems to be an attempt to put some sort of pressure on the bank and its staff. I will definitely check the CCTV footage once the bank opens for work on Monday,” he told TOI.
  
  SBI’s deputy general manager S K Wadhera said, “There is no possibility that an ATM would dispense fake notes, as we fill them with currency received from the RBI. However, we will check the CCTV footage to ascertain the claim that the ATM disbursed the scanned Rs 2,000 note.”
