The best of Indian textile heritage was on display on the ramp as members of   ( ) walked the ramp in designer  's creations. A small fashion show was a part of the award ceremony where women achievers from different fields were chosen to be felicitated.

 
 
 
 From jamdanis to kanjivarams, patola and chikankari – the best of Indian textile heritage was on display on the ramp as members of Young FICCI Ladies Organisation (YFLO) walked the ramp in designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee's creations. A small fashion show was a part of the award ceremony where women achievers from different fields were chosen to be felicitated. Among those who received an award during the ceremony in Delhi were entrepreneur  , fashion designer and politician   and Paralympics winner  .
 
  
  Shaina NC and  
 
  
  Sussanne Khan and Shivani Wazir Pasrich
 
 
 
 
 
 Textiles minister Smriti Irani was the special guest for the evening. "The Indian handmade textile industry, which employs more than 43 lakh weavers, is 78 per cent women. We need to show further support to the weaver community, the community that represents our country’s rich heritage," said Irani. Sabyasachi said that the show was yet another attempt to celebrate the textile heritage and craft from India. "This show was all about our rich history in textile and it also showcased the best of Indian embroidery," said Sabyasachi, who put up a show in Delhi after a long time. "I might plan and do some show in the winter this year. I have moved away from the show circuit for a bit as there is too much noise in fashion right now and it is nice to separate yourself and do something which is your own point of view," he said.
 
 
 
 Sabyasachi recently attended the inaugural reception of The UK-India Year of Culture. About meeting the queen, the designer said, "It was very overwhelming to get into Buckingham Palace and when you meet the queen, you realise that she has a terrific sense of humour. I was with   and her mother and the queen remembered that Ravi Shankar performed at the palace, she gave us extra time, so it was great."
 
