KOZHIKODE: From the local reporter of the ' ', the mouthpiece of the  , to its director board member; from the general secretary of the MSF to the national president of the IUML; five times MLA and seven times MP and  , the growth  , the politician, was admirable.

 Born in Thana in Kannur town on April 29, 1938, as the son of O Abdul Khader Haji and E Nafeesa Beevi, Ahamed's first major step in his political career was in 1958, when he became the first general secretary of the MSF. After his graduation from Govt Brennen College in Thalassery, Ahamed obtained a law degree from the Government Law College, Thiruvananthapuram. He started practicing as a lawyer in the district court in Thalassery. However, he soon found that politics was his forte. Ahamed fought his maiden battle in the political arena in 1967 when he contested assembly polls from Kannur and won.
 
 It was the internal politics of IUML that drove E Ahamed, who was very active in state politics to the national capital. But the seasoned politician who knew how keep afloat, became the most presentable face of the IUML in national politics within no time.
 
 “Ahamed was close to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Ahamed Patel and Ghulam Nabi Azad,“ said M C Vadakara, an IUML historian. He was steadfast in his loyalty to the Congress even during difficult times. When the Congress thought of forming a coalition, Ahamed played a pivotal role in extending the   experiment in Kerala to the national level.
 
 The ties between the Congress and the IUML became strained post-Babri Masjid demolition. Stalwarts in the party including Ebrahim Sulaiman Sait wanted to snap ties with the Congress, which was seen as gravitating towards soft Hindutva. But Ahamed defended Congress-IUML alliance.
 
 It was not political expediency that prompted Ahamed to warm up to the Congress. He firmly believed that only Congress can thwart the machinations of the Sang Parivar. Ahamed stuck to his stand even after the Congress suffered a humiliating defeat at the hands of the BJP.
 
 There was a move to sideline him when the elections to the   were announced in 2014. But surprising his detractors, Ahamed's name topped the list of the candidates. The reason: the party was unable to find a suitable replacement for him. He gave a befitting reply to the opponents by securing a victory margin of 1,94,739 votes.
 
 A man of vision and wisdom, Ahamed Sahib, as he was known, believed that infrastructure development is essential for the social and economic progress. A political strategist who tried to get a national identity to the Muslim community , he maintained a vision of his own in matters of religion and global issues. It is this vision that helped him successfully handle the crisis situations faced by Indian expat workers in Gulf countries on many occasions.
 
