AHMEDABAD: Despite having the second lowest unemployment rate at 0.9%, according to the fifth Annual Employment-Unemployment Survey 2015-16, labour strikes and protests are not alien to Gujarat. Sample this: Unpaid for months, city-based Anil Limited’s workers sought government authorities’ help this month to recover their dues. 

 Tata Motors Ltd’s Sanand plant workmen went on a month-long strike last year and they are still in process of negotiating wage hikes with the company. US auto major   recently shut its plant in Halol, which had a history of workers’ strike.
 
 According to the Gujarat’s   2016-17, 16 incidents of strikes and lockouts were reported in Gujarat during 2016 till October. The number was 13 in 2015. Experts attribute mainly low wage and job insecurity to this unrest.
 
 “Gujarat has the second lowest unemployment rate. However, the wages are lower than states such as Maharashtra, Haryana and Delhi. Even the kind of employment generated here is inferior as compared to other states. Gujarat sees employment generation in informal sector, which is marked by low wages and job insecurity. This ultimately adds to unrest among workers,” said Ghanshyam Shah, a social scientists and a former professor at   University (JNU).
 
 Employment opportunities have not increased in tandem with investments made by industries. Labour requirement has reduced with automation coming into play “Per factory employment has gone down in the past 30 years,” Shah added.
 
 Even employment in the formal sector, including government, is informal in nature as people are hired on contractual basis. “Job insecurity coupled with rising aspirations and ambitions is also reflected in social unrests like Patidar agitation for reservation,” he said.
 
 The government, however, has a different view. “Gujarat has a far better and relatively peaceful labour situation in the country. There have been some instances of strike calls over wage issues, which the labour department has actively addressed and resolved. Communication gap between workers and management often leads to such strikes. As such, Gujarat does not have a history of long strikes,” explained J D Desai, director of labour, Gujarat government.
 
 “By and large, workers in Gujarat get more than minimum wages. Even in case of contractual workers, issue is not of low wage but of workload,” he added.
 
 Trade unions blame increase in contractual hiring and industry friendly labour laws for workers’ woes. “The labour laws of the government are not workers oriented, while growing contractual labour force has adversely affected the labour movement,” said Arun Mehta, secretary general, the   (CITU).
 
 According him, minimum wages in state are very low for both skilled and unskilled laborers. The new minimum wages declared are not being implemented as the labour department is currently understaffed.
 
