BENGALURU: In another major mishap at an  , high temperature melting metal overflowing from the blasted furnace onto the shop floor of the   (MSF) Ishapore, in West Bengal, has killed two employees while injuring seven others. 

 The major mishap occurred on Saturday (March 11), when nine employees were shifted to a hospital. However, two of them—Falguni Banerjee, a Chargeman and Bablu Majumder, a industrial employee—have succumbed to their injuries.
 
 The accident happened in the newly installed 20-tonne furnace, which was being continuously run to meet the annual targets.
 
 Sources privy to the investigation said: “There is a mandatory safety recess that every furnace needs to get. They are all designed to function a certain number of hours, after which they must be rested.” 
 
 “If you look at several of the past incidents, you will see many of them in March. This is the time factories are faced with an overload of work as they try meeting the annual targets,” the source said.
 
 Members of the All-India Defence Employees’ Federation (AIDEF) are alleging that the management did not pay attention to any of the safety norms and were running the furnace and even other equipment without breaks.
  
 They have made this representation to the  , requesting him to issue “stringent” instructions to all factories. Safety at various ordnance factories have been a matter of concern, which multiple committees, including the Raman Puri committee—the latest to look into the matter—have criticised.
 
 From monkey menace letting rain water on to shells to waste paper burning and causing explosions, reports submitted to the government by the Ministry of Defence (MoD) reveal that 13 major accidents have been reported in ordnance factories from different parts of India between January 2012 and December 2014. 
 
 The accidents have cost the exchequer Rs 73.67 lakh besides injuring 23 people and killing five. While 2015 was a quiet year, the Pulgaon fire last year cost the exchequer Rs 8 crore, killed 19 people and injured 17. 
 
