KOCHI: The city wore a deserted look on Thursday as the dawn-to-dusk hartal called by UDF and BJP was near total. Minor incidents of stone pelting and blocking of vehicles were reported from areas like Palarivattam and Thoppumpady. 

 A march taken out by   to Kochi Range IG's office turned violent forcing police to resort to water cannon after protesters pelted stones at police vehicles.
 
 The hartal was called as a mark of protest against the police action on Mahija, mother of  , an engineering college student who allegedly committed suicide.
 
 Vehicles kept off the roads and shops did not open till 6pm on Thursday. Heavy police force was deployed to maintain law and order in the city.
 
 As many as 27 Yuvamorcha activists were booked under sections of the   (PDPP Act). The arrested were remanded in judicial custody in connection with the incident. 
 
 According to police, the activists broke police barricade and attempted to barge into the  . "We had to resort to lathicharge and water cannons as the mob tried to break the barricades. A few pelted stones at the force deployed to maintain law and order causing damage to police vehicles parked nearby. Protesters also pelted stone at a vehicle at Palarivattom and fled," said a senior police officer with the city police.
 
 DCC general secretary and councillor Thambi Subrahmanian and seven others were arrested for blocking vehicles belonging to high court at Thoppumpady in the morning. Though the incident created tension in the area, no untoward incidents were reported. Later, they were released on bail.
 
 Hartal affected the functioning of government offices, which recorded poor attendance. Though many opened in the morning, they were later closed owing to lack of staff strength. At Ernakulam civil station around 59 offices were opened out of 83 but many were closed by afternoon due to low number of staff.
 
 Collectorate witnessed low attendance with only 60 out of 168 staff reporting for work at the office. A similar trend was observed at the Kochi corporation office as well.
 
 "The offices were opened with minimal staff strength. Many were forced to close offices because of this. The   however functioned with average staff strength as the number of visitors were few," said an official with the civil station. 
 
 Except for occasional movement of vehicles, the city roads remained deserted as the private and KSRTC buses did not conduct any service. KSRTC resumed services after 6pm while educational institutions, shops, petrol pumps and other establishments remained closed.
 
 Tourists and passengers who arrived at bus stands and railway stations had a tough time due to the absence of sufficient public transport. Private vehicles were out on the road, but in lesser numbers. PSC examinations were conducted uninterrupted in the district, said officers.
 
