GHAZIABAD: With just three days to go before the first phase of polls in UP, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tried to assuage traders, BJP’s large support base who have been hit hard by demonetisation. Speaking at a rally here on Wednesday, Modi said the war against ‘black money’ is targeted at ‘big people’ and ‘babus’ who have stashed illegal money in cash and not against small traders.

 Modi also tore into the Akhilesh Yadav government, alleging it was “sheltering” and “nursing” crime and corruption. Alluding to Ramayana, he said this UP election was about ending the 14-year “exile of growth” in the state.
 
 Speaking about black money, the PM singled out a Congress minister in Karnataka. “You must all be aware about the Congress minister from Karnataka from whose house Rs 150 crore was recovered. Our fight against black money is not against small traders. You are being misled into believing that traders are being targeted,” Modi told the gathering.
 
  
  
 
 The bulk of the Prime Minister’s speech was reserved for the Akhilesh Yadav government. “In UP, girls as young as those studying in Class IX are afraid of going to school because of the terror of eve-teasers. The SP government has failed to provide safety and security to women despite the fact that female members of the Yadav family have already made it to politics,” said Modi.
 
 Modi said Akhilesh has disappointed those who had high hopes of him and has “destroyed” the state in the past five years. He also took a dig at SP-Congress alliance, saying, Samajwadi Party had stepped into a “sinking boat”.
 
 Development eluded UP in the past 14 years as   has not been in power in the state, he said. If BJP forms a government in the state after the elections, a special task force would be constituted to investigate the activities of the land mafia over the past few years, he said.
 
 “The state government has not been allowing a CAG audit into the account books of   Development Authority. This suggests that there is something fishy in its conduct. If BJP forms the government in UP, a law will be passed to audit the account books of all developmental authorities in the state,” he said.
 
 Speaking about the farm crisis and farmers’ suicides in UP over the past few years, Modi said the SP government has been procuring just 3% of total agricultural produce at MSP in comparison to 60% in Haryana and 50% in Madhya Pradesh.
 
 “We have undertaken a programme whereby 500 mandis in the country will be connected with each other with the help of technology. Farmers will be able to sell their produce at any mandi across the country that offers the best possible prices. Nearly half of them are already connected and the rest will be connected soon,” he said.
 
 Modi also stressed on the fact that the SP government has been able to register only 14% of farmers in UP under the Prime Minister’s Fasal Bima Yojana as compared to 53% in Rajasthan and 50% in Maharashtra.
 
 
