IMPHAL: Various political parties have complained to the EC over non-availability of   Poll campaigning has been hit as the United Naga Council-sponsored highway stir has disrupted the supply of fuel and essential commodities to the state. While the parties got their oil quota from the state government, candidates had to arrange fuel fpor themselves on their own. In January and the first part of this month, poll nominees were compelled to buy fuel from the grey market at a higher price, increasing their daily expenditure. 

 But the situation improved this week after the Centre airlifted fuel from Guwahati and the state government brought essential commodities through the Imphal-Silchar highway. Most oil stations are now open and the queues have become shorter. 
 
 EC officials here said the leaders of nine political parties, who met a central   on Wednesday, voiced their concern over the prevailing law and order situation and the ongoing economic blockade. The leaders demanded peaceful completion of the election process. 
 
 The EC assured political parties of taking all possible measures to conduct free, fair and peaceful polls. It also promised to look into their problems and take appropriate action. The parties urged the EC to effectively utilise the forces in insurgency-hit areas. They demanded that vulnerability mapping of locations be done more carefully. "They also urged the EC to maintain communal harmony," said an official. 
 
 At the meeting, some parties complained about misuse of power by the ruling party. They charged the Congress with using the state machinery for electoral gains and complained about the neutrality of some state government officials. 
 
 The EC has already asked all officials, including police, to remain neutral while discharging their duties during the poll process. It also warned of action against officials if there are any complaints. The EC has directed DGP LM Khaute to provide security guards to candidates after some parties demanded security cover for their candidates. 
 
 Complaining about the use of money power in the election, some leaders have called for stern action against the offenders. They want the role of expenditure observers to be widened to control illegal expenditure. Tribal politicians urged the EC to increase the expenditure limit for the hill constituencies because of their remoteness and extra expenses incurred for travelling.
 
 Expressing concern over the conduct of polling in the hill districts and sensitive areas of the valley, sources said many leaders demanded the EC to ensure that all polling agents sit inside polling stations and any attempt to prevent them from entering the booth should be strictly dealt with. 
 
 
