Coimbatore: The Singanallur Housing Unit complex was bustling with people on Wednesday afternoon as residents gathered in groups to discuss the vacation notice served on them earlier in the day. The residents have been asked to vacate as the houses are on the verge of collapse. 

 With at least 70% of the 960 houses in the society accommodating tenants, people feel that a 10-day notice period is insufficient to find alternate accommodation. 
 
 Sivagami V is a 52-year-old widow who has been living in the housing unit for more than five years. On Wednesday morning, police along with the district administration officials, issued notice to all the residents, asking them to vacate by October 6. 
 
 “I live on rent here. I cannot find a new house within 10days,” said Sivagami. “Most of us residing here struggle to earn a living. Without giving us ample time, it is not fair to expect us to vacate,” she added.
 
 The residents plan to meet collector T N Hariharan on Thursday requesting him to grant them more time. 
 
 “It is not possible to find houses for 960 families in the same area. If the government wants us to vacate the houses, then they should also provide us alternate accommodation,” said 70-year-old G P Thangamani. 
 
 While tenants in the housing unit say that if they are provided more time they could find an alternate arrangement, owners of the colony say they will have to bear the additional burden of rent while they own a house. 
 
 “I have been living here for 22 years. If the building is on the verge of collapse, then it is the state government’s mistake. They should provide an alternate house,” said R Tamil Mani, 45.
 
 Singanalllur MLA N Karthik welcomed the state government’s decision to vacate the Singanallur Housing Unit before something tragic happened. 
 
 “I have been asking the state government to take steps to renovate the housing unit since I was elected. The housing minister had spoken about taking measures during the budget meeting in 2016 and 2017,” said Karthik. “But this step to vacate the housing unit is because of the Somanur tragedy,” he added. 
 
 Karthik said the district administration should allocate houses for the residents in the slum board tenements in Saravanampatti and Vellalore temporarily.
 
 
