PUNE: Only 22 of the total 127 designated   in   have joined the   (NOTTO), so far.

 Set up by the Union government, NOTTO is an apex networking organisation that aims to build a national network of hospitals with the capability of ‘retrieving’ organs. Also, it will develop a national registry of organ transplantation on par with that of the US and the UK.
 
 “Only 22 transplant centres/private hospitals in Maharashtra have joined NOTTO. Since health is the state issue, we cannot force them to join us. However, unless all designated organ transplant centres in all states, including Maharashtra, join the national  , we will not be able to come up with plans and devise strategies,” Vimal Bhandari, director of NOTTO, said at the launch of the organ transplant coordinator’s training programme here on Monday.
 
 Bhandari said, “As per our records, there are 301 designated transplant centres/hospitals in different states in the country. Among them, 152 have already registered with us while the registration of another 44 is in the process. Unless all these centres join the national grid, we will not be able to ensure proper networking and coordination.”
 
 When contacted, state’s nodal officer for organ transplant Gauri Rathod said, “There are a total of 127 hospitals in Maharashtra, which have sought permission and licence from the state government to retrieve and transplant vital organs. Among them, 35 hospitals are linked to the national grid. We are formulating a system where any hospital registered with the state government will also get subsequently attached to the national organisation by default. The process is on.”
 
 There are five Regional Organ and Tissue Transplantation Organisations (ROTTOs) in Mumbai (western zone), Chandigarh (northern zone), Guwahati (northeastern zone), Kolkata (eastern zone) and Chennai (southern zone).
 
 Mumbai-located civic-run KEM hospital is the office of the regional organisation. Maharashtra, Gujarat, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Madhya Pradesh and Chatttisgarh are attached to the regional organisation of the western zone.
 
 “We held a meeting on Monday that was attended by the officials from the Directorate of Health Services and the Department of Medical Education and Research. We discussed plan of action to reenergize the regional organisation for enhanced coordination among the attached states. Once the regional organisation starts functioning with adequate manpower and resources, reporting and coordination among the member states will be streamlined. It will eventually lead to linkages of hospitals to the national grid,” Rathod said.
 
 Once all designated transplant centres are attached to the national grid, then I will have a centralised national database of organ donations and subsequent transplants, he added.
 
 LARGER PICTURE
 
 Main objectives
 
 The National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation aims to -
 
 Increase the availability of organs from deceased donors
 
 Capacity building for coordination, retrieval and transplantation of organs
 
 Developing networking and a national registry
 
 Benefits of joining the grid
 
 NOTTO assists in sharing donated organs for transplantation, if not consumed within the state
 
 Helps in gathering donor information and running the donor/recipient matching process
 
 Assists with transportation of organs and tissues for transplantation
 
 Acts as a national resource to the transplant activity regarding organ sharing policies
 
 
