GURUGRAM:  , Gurugram’s  , on Wednesday defended his line accusing the   regime of tweaking affordable housing rules to favour real estate companies, a day after he criticised his own government in the assembly on the issue. 

 “The Gurugram master plan is being changed to benefit private builders,” he told TOI. “The area for affordable housing projects is being increased from 300 acres to 500 acres to suit their (realtors’) needs,” he added. Asked if he was referring to a particular builder, Aggarwal said the government was working to benefit “all private builders”. He did not, however, elaborate. 
 
 A senior official in the department of town and country planning (DTCP), which was of the subjects of Aggarwal’s ire in the assembly, said the MLA has not been able to substantiate his allegations because there is no wrongdoing. “To begin with, the affordable housing policy the MLA is referring to was prepared by the Congress government in 2013,” said this official. “During the previous government, 42 licences were issued and the present government has issued 25, of which 6 are delayed. Before the policy was passed, the draft was put in the public domain. In anticipation that the policy will be approved, some builder had prepared a draft beforehand,” the official added, referring to another charge made by Aggarwal in the assembly. 
 
 “I wonder how builders can prepare the draft ahead of finalisation of the policy,” Aggarwal had said on the floor of the House on Tuesday. “Complaints lodged by me are still pending at various levels. Neither the previous government, nor this one has ordered any probe to ascertain the shortcomings. They (builders) have been given licences instead.”
 
 Asked about the “lapses” finance minister Captain Abhimanyu had acknowledged while replying to Aggarwal, another DTCP official said he was referring to the necessity for a course correction. “As per the policy, in every sector where land is available, 10 acres will be used for affordable housing projects,” the official explained. “The minimum land requirement is 5 acres. So far, the first-come-first-served’ principle was being followed to issue licences to builders. But there were objections and it has been decided that instead of this, a lottery system will be introduced.” 
 
 He added, “This is the lapse which the finance minister was referring to. There are otherwise no lapses in the issuance of licences for affordable housing.” he said. The finance minister could not be reached for a comment. 
 
