HYDERABAD: Bowing to demands from colleges, the Telangana government is all set to introduce new super-speciality courses for post-graduates in its teaching hospitals.From the next academic year, Hyderabad's   and Gandhi Medical College will begin new courses along with Kakatiya Medical College in Warangal.

 These courses are currently available in the Nizam's Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) and some private medical colleges like Kamineni.
 
 “We want to introduce PG courses in emergency medicine, transfusion medicine and hospital administration. We have already sent our proposals to the   (MCI),“ Dr M Ramani, director of medical education said.
 
 Emergency medicine has Emergency medicine has gained importance specially to help bring down mortality rates due to growing number of accidents. Experts in emergency medicine are taught various treatment modalities in critical care.
 
 “We are doing everything that is required to get permis sions by increasing staff and also earmarking funds,“ she added. Each of these courses will have two to four seats per college. Although, the seats will finally depend on the allocation of MCI.
 
 There are other advanced courses like rheumatology and geriatrics, which will also be taught. Also, plans are afoot to introduce PG courses in tropical medicine in Osmania and Gandhi medical colleges.Geriatric care courses are gaining ground worldwide with graduate-level degree and certificate courses available to train people who can be specialist nurses. In these courses, nurses are provided specialized training on how to care for aging patients.
 
 Even distant learning courses are available, but any candidate wishing to enrol must have earlier experience in this field.
 
 Apart from the new courses, government is also keen to begin PG courses in   and   in Adilabad.
 
 Officials said Medical Council of India authorities will soon inspect these buildings and they are also adopting correction measures based on the recommendations of MCI.
 
 Telangana recently got 157 PG seats based on teacher-student ratio.The state was hoping to get more PG seats after Union health minister JP Nadda announced 4,000 more new medical PG seats in government colleges across the country.
 
