AHMEDABAD: Gujarat   on Wednesday refused bail to suspended  , Pradeep Sharma, in a   case in which he has been made an accused by the Enforcement Directorate (ED).

 Justice A J Desai said that the court cannot believe that Sharma is not guilty of money laundering. His wife had apparently invested just Rs 1 lakh to become 30% partner in a company and had continued to receive crores of rupees in her bank account and her children’s accounts in US through hawala entries via Dubai. 
 
 The court further said that information about huge transactions was supplied by American banks on request by the special court under Section 57 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). 
 
 When the ED could gather such material against Sharma, the burden to prove that he was not guilty of having committed the crime lies on Sharma as per Section 24 of the PMLA. 
 
 Sharma has failed to establish this, the court said.
 
 The court made this observation while rejecting Sharma’s argument that his wife, Shyamal, works in the US and she might have her own transactions. The probe does not establish that the money was transferred at his behest. 
 
 In fact, several transactions took place in those accounts when he was in jail. 
 
 Sharma had also argued that he was arrested as late as in 2016 for this offence because the investigating agency was waiting for his release in other offences.
 
 ED slapped charges of money laundering against Sharma in 2012 on the basis of an FIR filed by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) accusing him of corruption. He was arrested in July last year. As a district collector of Kutch in 2004, Sharma was accused of allotting land to Welspun Group at 25% of market rate and, thereby, causing loss of Rs 1.2 crore to the government exchequer.
 
 Sharma was first arrested on September 30, 2014 for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 29 lakh from a private company in 2004. 
 
 The complaint said that in return for allotting land to Welspun, the company had allegedly made Shyamal a 30% partner in its subsidiary, ‘Value Packaging’, and extended her a benefit of Rs 29.5 lakh.
 
