BATHINDA: Role of the mother of the two children, who were beaten and electrocuted by their grandmother and father, in a   on Wednesday evening, has come  . Though her direct involvement has not been proved, the police are questioning her about her silence over the three-day torture of her kids. Parents of the woman Rosy have denied her involvement but villagers think otherwise as she too seemed mentally challenged.

 A five-year-old boy and a three-year-old girl were killed by their father Kulwinder Singh (30) and grandmother Nirmal Kaur (55) after they were beaten and given electric shocks to cure the latter’s sister, Prem Lata, of mental disorder. Nirmal had this belief that she had divine powers and could bring the children back to life. 
 
 Meanwhile, residents of Kotfatta village, where the inhuman incident took place, want both grandmother and father of the children to be given the severest punishment. They also held a protest outside Kotfatta police station on Thursday in this regard.
 
 Nirmal’s husband Mukhtiar Singh, who works as mate at the Bathinda military station, said, “My wife’s sister Prem Lata, who lives in Ludhiana, has some mental disorder. My wife was trying to get her cured of this. Nearly three months ago she took her to some exorcist at Kalianwali village near Dabwali in Sirsa district of Haryana.
 
 The exorcist started visiting our home and my wife started following him blindly despite my stopping her. On March 4, I was at my job and she, along my son Kulwinder, started beating up the kids, hoping that her sister would be cured.” 
 
 “On Wednesday evening I was not at home, my wife sent my younger son Jaspreet Singh out of home and again started beating my grandchildren and killed them,” he alleged.
 
 Kulwinder’s neighbour Gamdoor Singh said that the kids’ mother never objected to this inhuman act and sometimes she too used to claim of possessing some divine powers. “On Wednesday evening, we heard the shrieks of the children and their mother. We could not imagine the seriousness of the matter as the children fell silent after screaming loudly,” he added.
 
 Rosy, who was brought to the police station for questioning, said that her mother-in-law had killed her children and she had no hand in it. Her mother Gurmeet Kaur, who lives in Lal Singh Basti in Bathinda, too termed her innocent and wanted the police to let her go. 
 
 Bathinda SSP Swapan Sharma said, “Police are questioning the mother of the children on why did she not object to the inhuman act.”
 
