PUNE: The   for Technical Education (AICTE) has begun orientation for   on the lines of some Bachelor in   to prepare students for   as they shift from school to higher education, especially to a demanding  

 The six-month mandatory programme will roll out in 100 colleges across the country including a few in Pune and Maharashtra, AICTE chairman Anil Sahasrabuddhe told TOI on Sunday. 
 
 At the end of the six-month programme conducted during the first semester, students would be able to easily deal with academic pressures, time management, study habits and other related matters. A few Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT) in the country have started a refresher course for first-year students.
 
 Sahasrabuddhe said, “A variety of students join engineering courses with some undergoing a transition from rural to urban, school to college, vernacular language to English medium, among others. According to our past experiences, many face academic pressures or issues establishing conversation with classmates or faculty members. There have been instances when many quit the course mid-way. To deal with this problem, we have designed a special programme in the first semester that would make the students ready.”
 
 The council is in the process of identifying the 100 colleges where the programme could be rolled out from 2017-18 academic year. Sahasrabuddhe said the council plans to have at least two colleges in each state this year and then run it full-fledged from the 2018-19 academic year across the country. The AICTE had appointed a special committee to prepare the programme with experts from the industry.
 
 Sushil Kulkarni, faculty, development and students affairs at a city college, said, "The first year marks a new stage in students’ education where they have been given control of the decision of what and where to study. The pressures on students are numerous and many do not succeed. Engineering is a discipline where a combination of factors, including the difficulty of the subject and mismatching of student and academic expectations, have resulted in higher dropout rates than for many other fields. A refresher programme would definitely help students who are weak in confidence levels."
 
 The programme will receive approval from the HRD ministry. It is designed to facilitate thinking about a student’s first impressions and the activities which could be developed to help them feel comfortable within their department and institution, Sahasrabuddhe said.
 
