RANCHI: Moral   will be a part of the   in government schools from the academic year 2017-18. A separate syllabus has been made for the subject from Class I to VIII.

 School education and literacy department secretary Aradhana Patnaik said, “Till date, occasional classes were held for moral education but now it has been introduced as a subject in the curriculum. Through this subject, we will try to inculcate moral values in students via true stories.”
 
 General Knowledge will also be introduced as a separate subject from Class VI to VIII in all government schools. A set of 100 basic GK questions, which the students are expected to know, has been prepared for each of the three classes.
 
 In a bid to help students prepare for the transition from Anganwadi to Class I, preparatory classes will be started in the government schools from this academic year.
 
 Patnaik said, “At present, children in Anganwadi are not taught much and once they start school in Class I, they are unable to cope with the studies. This is why we have decided to introduce preparatory classes which would help in the transition of children.”This apart, books for Class I and II will be made available in Bengali and Oriya languages from this year so that the students of government schools are able to start studies in their mother tongue. In 2016, books were introduced in five tribal languages. 
 
 This year, books prepared by the Jharkhand Council for Educational Research and Training (JCERT) will be made available for the students of Class VI to VIII. In 2016, these books were provided to students up to Class V.
 
 “Social issues of the state like witch-hunting and trafficking, stories of local heroes like Birsa Munda, local tourist spots, culture, festivals and other regional details have been introduced in these books. The work order for printing has already been given and we will get the books by March end so that they can be distributed on time,” Patnaik said.
 
 At the high school level, vocational courses will be made mandatory from Class IX and above in 230 high schools having plus two classes. “There are seven trades including information technology, medical and health care, beautician and others. Earlier, vocational courses were optional and available only in Class XI and XII but from this year, it has been made mandatory from Class IX,” Patnaik said.
 
