NEW DELHI: India-Bangladesh relations run through   at the best of times. These are not the best of times, as West Bengal chief minister   is on the warpath with the central government, particularly PM  . As in the past, it has had an impact on bilateral ties with Dhaka.

 Sheikh Hasina,   PM, is scheduled to visit India in March, a visit that was originally scheduled for December 2016. Mamata, who had accompanied PM Modi during his trip in June 2015, had reportedly agreed to complete negotiations on two big projects —   and  .
 
 On the ground, neither of these projects appear to be anywhere close to reality. Officials in both New Delhi and Dhaka said the WB government is holding back on the negotiations.
 
 While Mamata’s belief that the Teesta pact could hurt her politically has ensured it hasn’t gone anywhere in the past five years, the Bengal government’s obduracy on the   barrage is less understandable. The barrage would benefit West Bengal, helping irrigation and water storage in the state.
 
 In 2011, Mamata rained on Manmohan Singh’s grand visit to Bangladesh, by refusing to agree on Teesta water sharing pact almost at the last minute. 
 
 Having drawn lessons from that, when Modi visited Dhaka in 2015 after getting parliamentary approval for the land boundary agreement, he insisted on Banerjee coming along, who was accorded virtually head-of-government treatment by  . Mamata had then promised to work on both Teesta and the Ganges barrage.
 
 West Bengal has another dark reality to its credit — it has become a sanctuary for hardline Islamist militants, many of whom cross over from Bangladesh. 
 
 Hasina’s crackdowns on terror and on fake Indian currency networks have had an impact, but there are questions about how the West Bengal government has allowed these militants to get sanctuary on this side of the border. Communal incidents in Bengal have increased in the past couple of years.
 
 Despite the wrinkles, Bangladesh in the past year has become the largest source of tourists into India, as declared by Indian envoy to Dhaka, Harsh Vardhan Shringla recently.
 
 It had led to Bangladesh appointing a deputy high commissioner in Guwahati and India streamlining its visa processes in Bangladesh to enable greater travel opportunities.
 
 One of the ideas being tossed around in both governments is for a work permit for Bangladeshis who want to come to India to work. This would help address the economic migration issue, bring these people under official scanner and build some transparency in the exercise.
 
