Mumbai: State Bank of India ( ) has cut interest rates on home loans of up to Rs 30 lakh by 25   (100bps = 1 percentage point) to 8.35%. On home loans of more than Rs 30 lakh, the country’s largest lender cut the rate to 8.50% from 8.60%. Rival banks are expected to respond with cuts as this widens their gap with SBI’s rates, which were already the lowest.

 Announcing the rate cut on Monday, SBI said that this was in keeping with the Prime Minister’s vision of providing “Housing for All” by 2022. “This limited period offer is to give a boost to  . There are many potential buyers who are sitting on the fence right now — unsure of whether to buy or not. Home loan rates were already quite low and there was also a government subsidy under the Prime Minister’s Awas Yojana ( ). With this reduction we expect the fence sitters to take a decision,” said Rajnish Kumar, MD, SBI. He added that the bank will take a decision on July 31 on extending the scheme.
 
 Under the PMAY, loans of up to Rs 9 lakh and up to Rs 12 lakh receive interest subsidy of 4% and 3% respectively, while in rural areas loans up to Rs 2 lakh will get an interest subvention of 3%. The value of the subsidy amounts to Rs 2.67 lakh for an eligible borrower.
 
 Meanwhile, the largest housing finance company HDFC said that it had already cut rates for new customers to 8.5% in February. According to an HDFC official, the company decided to trim rates due to a reduction in the marginal cost of funds. The company has been traditionally targeting a spread of 2.2-2.35%, and has been revising rates whenever the spreads move out of this range.
 
 Other large lenders including ICICI Bank and Axis Bank offer home loans at 8.65%. A new entrant in the home loan market is DBS Bank. The Singaporean lender had made its foray into the Indian mass market with the launch of the Digibank ‘mobile only’ zero balance account. The bank is now offering retail borrowers home loans at 8.4% with zero processing fee. Meanwhile, Bank of India has reduced its Marginal Cost of funds-based Lending Rate (MCLR) by 10bps from 8.50% to 8.40% with effect from May 7, 2017.
 
 There is increased competition among banks for home loans which accounted for half of all credit growth in FY17. SBI’s Kumar said, “We have a 26% market share in home loans and we expect our Rs 2.3-lakh-crore portfolio to grow 17-18% this year.” He said that he expected some acceleration in home loan growth as the bank had recently merged its five associate banks with itself, widening its reach.
 
 
