THANE: After two years of planning and delay work has once again begun on the first-of-its kind   in  . The forest authorities feel that the work will be complete in the next six to eight months.

 Over the past two years, wildlife activists and rescuers have been waiting for the launch of this centre, as it is expected reduce the load currently faced by non government organizations (NGOs) when it comes to house rescued animals till they are fit for release in the wild.
 
 “Currently there is no transit centre for the wild fauna in Thane. Any injured monkey, jackal, birds or other such animals rescued by activists are either taken to the Thane Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA) for treatment and recovery or else handed over to Mumbai NGOs and veterinarians. Some injured animals take a long time to recover and this is why there is a crucial need for a centre,” said Pawan Sharma, wildlife warden associated with the Thane forest department. 
 
 While the forest department had acquired a two-acre plot near their existing one hectare forest land at Shilphata last year for this centre and had planted a number of trees last August, there had been no other progress since then. Over the past few months, the department has been working on this project after a hiatus. 
 
 “We have started working on this project in full swing. While the plantation was done last year we are now in the process of reinforcing and strengthening the compound wall and setting up a security cabin, outpatient department, doctors’ room and other such structures. Once that is done we will build the enclosures for all the animals,” said deputy conservator of forests, Dr Jitendra Ramgaokar.
 
 “As the transit centre is for injured animals we are hoping it will be completely equipped with all the essential elements, including an operation theatre, X-Ray machines, standard clean enclosures, monitors, etc. We have been pushing for this project for over two years,” added Sharma, who is also the founder of wildlife NGO Resqink Association for Wildlife Welfare (RAWW).
 
 While the plantation was done last year we are now in the process of reinforcing and strengthening the compound wall and setting up a security cabin, outpatient department, doctors’ room and other such structures. We will then build enclosures
 
 
