Bhubaneswar: When someone utters “Syria” today, images of war and destruction flash in the minds of one and all. But a very different picture emerged as that country’s name was announced during the opening ceremony of the 22nd Asian Athletics Championships here. That image, which was shared on social media, was that of a sole representative carrying the flag of the country and marching on the tracks of Kalinga Stadium.

 That representative is   — a   thrower. Although the provisional team list had mentioned two athletes from the Asian country, the other being high jumper Majideddin Ghazal, the final contingent that arrived here comprised just Hiba.
 
 In May, the 27-year-old bettered her previous mark to set another national record at the Islamic Solidarity Games in Baku. The 48.82m may still be well short of the qualification mark of 61.20m for the World Championships in London but it speaks volumes of the dedication of the athlete playing her sport in a country torn by war.
 
 Constantly followed and having her words monitored by manager Al Abbas, Hiba refused to admit that she faced any problems as an athlete. “Had there been any problem, would I have been able to come here?” she questioned.
 
 Prodded a little more, just when her manager — in black shades and with the demeanour of a security personnel — was a bit out of hearing distance, Hiba added: “Well, there are some problems. Applying for visas to participate in sporting events in other countries is something that is very difficult. So that reduces the foreign exposure available to an athlete like me. Also, foreign coaches are reluctant to come to  .” 
 
 Born in Damascus, Hiba has three siblings — two sisters and a brother. “I began my throwing almost around the time that I got into school,” she said. The national-record holder, in fact, has also tried her hand at shot put. She has a personal best of 13.69m that she threw in Chun Buri, Thailand, in 2012. She also threw a best of 11.86m in indoor shot put in Tehran, 2010. But her first love is discus throw. “I want to emulate Sandra Perkovic (the two-time Olympic champion in discus throw). She is my idol,” the Syrian athlete said. 
 
 Asked about Ghada Shouaa, the heptathlete who won the only Olympic gold medal for Syria at the Atlanta Olympics in 1996, her eyes shine brighter. Although she took a bit of time to understand the Indian pronunciation of the Syrian star’s name, which she finally understood with some help from the Arabic interpreter, a gleaming Hiba said: “All of us in Syria love Shouaa. She is the idol to all of us!”
 
 Her manager, still monitoring the conversation with eager ears, said: “Shouaa is doing well. She runs a training school for athletes in the Hama province.”
 
 Hiba also said that there were five other girls who train with her in Damascus. And then her manager took a break from his position and there was a small window of opportunity to ask the dreaded question: How difficult was it for her to practise sports in a country ravaged by war?
 
 With the interpreter, too, conveying the query to her in a soft voice, Hiba looked set to open her heart with an answer that was not dictated to her. But the window was smaller than she thought. The manager cut in with the answer for her. “There is no problem in Syria. There is nothing like what the media is trying to tell you,” he curtly said.
 
 In a way, that was the real answer. He gave a glimpse of life for a sportswoman living under a dictator.
 
 
