PUNE: The   is probably the last spell for most parts of the country for this year’s  .

 The monsoon’s withdrawal which has been delayed by over 25 days, is expected to start from parts of northwest India by the month-end,   officials told TOI.
 
 The normal date for the monsoon’s withdrawal from the extreme parts of northwest India is September 1.
 
 Though Maharashtra and Konkan will see scattered rain over the next few days, most of the monsoon’s activity will be concentrated over parts of northwest India and central India.
 
 Maharashtra may expect a few thundershowers towards the end of September, officials said.
 
 The IMD’s weather models have indicated that between September 22 and 28, monsoon activity will be mainly over west Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Haryana and adjoining Himachal Pradesh.
 
 In addition, the main rainfall belt will also be over some eastern coastal regions and the southern peninsula.
 
 “We expect the monsoon to withdraw from northwest India by the month-end if there is no western disturbance. North Maharashtra, Gujarat and Konkan may see some rain on Friday, after which showers will mostly be concentrated over parts of north and central India. By early next week, the monsoon will recede from many parts of the country, with rainfall activity expected to be concentrated mainly over east and north-east parts of the country,” an IMD official told TOI.
 
 The official said while rain would recede in Maharashtra, occasional thundershowers could occur in parts of the state due to convective heating.
 
 “Forecast models currently do not indicate any monsoon system that may bring more rain in Maharashtra in the next few days, barring the occasional thundershowers during the evening. The recent spell of rain in Maharashtra, which is also expected to be replicated in parts of northwest and central India now, is perhaps the last good spell of the season,” the official said.
 
 While   may get fairly widespread rain on Friday, scattered rains are expected over the coastal region after that. Madhya Maharashtra will get scattered rains, while   isolated rains during the next few days.
 
 “Rainfall activity has already reduced over Marathwada. In Vidarbha too scattered to isolated rains are expected during the next few days,” the official said.
 
 Meanwhile, nine places in Konkan and Madhya Maharashtra recorded rain of over 100 mm in the 24 hours from Wednesday morning till Thursday morning. These included Chiplun, Bhiwandi, Alibaug, Thane, Harnai and Rahuri, among others.
 
 
