Panaji: It was a different kind of EDM for youth in Goa on Saturday. This time EDM stood for ‘Election Day Matters’, and Goa’s youth were caught in a conundrum—do they play it simple and vote for whom they want to, or vote strategically and vote for someone else instead of their preferred candidate in order to prevent someone else from winning.

 Most youth whom STOI spoke to believed in voting for the candidate of their choice, irrespective of the outcome.
 
 Agnelo D’Souza of Camurlim, Bardez, a voter in the Tivim constituency, said, “I have voted for the candidate whom I want. I believe in going for the candidate or party I believe in, irrespective of anything else.”
 
 Vijay Prakash Irraker, who lives on the Porvorim plateau and is a voter in the Porvorim constituency, said NOTA (none of the above) was always a choice in case he found none of the candidates to be worthy enough. 
 
 “A vote is precious. I was not going to waste it casting it for someone who’s not deserving. Then it is as good as not voting. The option of NOTA is there for this reason, not to benefit any third party. Every vote counts. At least, you will be satisfied that you didn’t vote for a wrong person or give someone undue advantage,” he said.
 
 Vembly Colaco from the Velim constituency, said she voted for someone she believes has Goa’s best interests at heart. “My vote was for the candidate of my choice, someone who will save Goa, and not on the basis of rivalry.”
 
 Concurring, Shital Sakhalkar, a voter in Panaji, said, “I voted for the candidate whom I wanted should win.”
 
 Johann Fernandes, a voter in the Aldona constituency, said he opted for a strategic vote. “I voted for someone who has the potential of taking on the party or candidate whom I don’t want to win. Besides, I also felt that the candidate whom I voted for has the potential to do good.”
 
 Stating that he would always vote for the candidate of his choice, even if the candidate did not stand a chance of winning, Rahul Dessai, a voter in the Taleigao constituency, said. “I have and will always vote for the candidate I support. Even if he/she loses, it helps build a base for the next time.”
 
 Cecilia Lourenco summed up the mood among the youth. “It was vote for the right person, vote for the good person. Thinking or worrying about votes getting split and then voting for someone else would make the right person lose. I hope the best party wins finally. The party that will help Goa.”
 
 
