VISAKHAPATNAM: More than one-and-half years after the proposal to develop an   was floated, the project is yet to take off at   in the port city. The IT layout had been planned to be developed on around 400 acres in a phase-wise manner in order to attract IT companies to set up shop in Vizag. 

 However, the state government is yet to approve a proposal sent by the   Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) for providing basic amenities such as laying of roads and undertaking drainage work at the proposed IT layout. 
 
 According to sources, APIIC had submitted a proposal requiring Rs 12 crore for laying roads and undertaking drainage work on around 250 acres out of the total 400 acres as part of the first phase of development. The overall cost for undertaking development work on the IT layout including provision of broadband connectivity infrastructure and other facilities such as water connection and power is Rs 30 crore.
 
 “We are yet to receive approval from the state government for taking up development work at the IT layout. We have already finalised the tenderer for taking up the work,” observed an APIIC official. He said, “We had finalised the tenders three months ago. Depending on the approval from the state government, we can take up the project.”
 
 At the same time, an IT department official said the development of the layout was initially intended to be taken up on a public private partnership model. However, due to lack of interest from private players, the government is looking at alternate models. “We had invited participation from private players to take up the project under public private partnership model for overall development of the township twice. But, there were no takers for the project. Some discussions are being held on how to go ahead with the project,” the IT department official said. 
 
 According to sources, the project was mooted following a request from IT companies as a measure to attract small, medium and large enterprises to set up base in Vizag. 
 
 Incidentally, the state government had earlier planned to construct an IT Signature Tower, which would provide around 10 lakh sft for tech firms, but the project is also yet to take off from the port city.
 
 
