A storm of sorts was stirred online after  , minister of consumer affairs, food and public distribution, apparently said that the government was looking at fixing the portion sizes of dishes served at restaurants to curb food wastage. It has now been clarified that the minister is not looking at governing how much we can or cannot eat; instead, he wants restaurants to clearly state what the portion size of each dish is so that the diner can decide how much he/she wishes to eat. So, if you were to order a plate of idli, it should clearly be mentioned that you will be served either one or two idlis. This way, as a consumer, you are clear about how much food you will receive, and, you not only save money, but also don’t waste food by over-ordering.

 
 
 Restaurant chains in the city, like MTR, have been doing this with certain dishes, such as idlis, and  , the owner, is happy to extend this to other dishes as well. “When we print the menu, we mention that a plate of idli costs a certain amount for two idlis, and another amount for a single idli. We have a measurement of how much we serve, so it can be extended to other dishes as well,” he says.
 
 
  
 
 The government plans to consult with the industry to determine if they will do this voluntarily or if a law will be required to mandate it.  , owner,  , feels that it will help consumers know exactly how much food they receive. “I have no objection to this. If we are free to charge what we want, and we clearly state the quantity, then it is the customer’s prerogative to order as much as they like. And I don’t require a law to tell me this. I am happy to specify how many grams of, say, chicken a particular dish has,” he says.
 
  of The Open Box also gives it a thumbs-up. “We see so much wastage happening. When we plan the menu, we know the quantity, so mentioning it is not an issue. When it comes to idlis, you can state the number of pieces, but with gravies, we will have to state it in terms of grams or millilitres,” he says.
 
 
 
 But wouldn’t judging in grams be difficult? “The consumer may not really understand how much one gram may translate to, but that is only because currently, there is a lack of knowledge. You may not know how much 250 grams is the first time, but by the next few times you eat out, you will figure it out. After all, 250 grams is the same at all restaurants,” says Amit.
 
 
  
 
 Nishant Reddy, assistant manager at an MNC, who eats out at least 10 times a week, feels that this move will not only reduce wastage, but will also help him order smarter. “Many times, when I order a dish, I don’t know how much I will get. If it’s too much, then it’s going to go to waste; if it’s too little, then I will have to order another dish, some of which I may not be able to finish, and will, therefore, be wasted. I think this proposal will reduce wastage, but that depends on how restaurants implement it,” he says.
 
 
 
 Vikram feels that although it is good to place the onus on restaurants, civic sense is important to reduce food wastage. “People need to also think about how much they are ordering and capable of eating. That’s the tricky part. This is certainly a step in the right direction and wastage will reduce, but the public needs to put in an effort as well,” he says.
 
