 and   have made the   ( ) want to see things in a new light. It plans to  .

 There are five lakh street lights in the BBMP limits. The BBMP will float a tender for the project next week. At present, the civic body pays close to Rs 18 crore for electricity– that is over Rs 200 crore per year. The BBMP also spends an additional Rs 50 crore for the street lights’ maintenance. With LED, it hopes to cut its bill by 50 to 60 per cent.
 
 BBMP commissioner Manjunath Prasad said the contractor, who will invest in the LED project,will share the savings with the BBMP. “The Corporation spends huge amounts towards electricity. This move will reduce the burden to a great extent as LED lights consume less power. The BBMP will not invest any money on the project.
 
 We will float a tender next week and the selected contractor will invest money on replacing the lights and maintaining them. We will ask bidders to quote a promise on energy consumption and how much BBMP could save. They will also be asked to quote the ratio in which they can share the savings,” Prasad said.
 
 The official said a LED street light could cost Rs 10,000 and the contractor will have to invest about Rs 500 crore on the project. It will take a year to replace all the street lights in the city, he said. The project will fix the non-functioning street light problem too, he said.
 
 “At present, we have a shortage of staff so it is difficult for us to get the burnt out street lights replaced. We have to replace the lights within 48 hours of receiving a complaint, but we are unable to do so many times. Under the new initiative, the BBMP will set up a control room to monitor all the street lights.”
 
  (Bescom) provides 80 MW of power for the city’s street lights. A Bescom engineer said, “If the existing streetlights that are of 250 watts are replaced with LED lights of 90 watts, a good amount of energy can be saved. If existing street lights consume three units of power, an LED light consumes one unit of power. With LED lights, BBMP may have to pay about Rs 5 -6 crore towards its power bill.”
 
