Chandigarh: Residents of Shivalik Vihar in Nayagaon have been troubled with the potholed roads which have become a death trap for the residents and commuters. The roads have developed craters up to 5-feet deep which do not only render uncomfortable ride to people, but make the stretches accident-prone to accidents.

 The residents claimed that the situation becomes worse at night as the streetlights are mostly defunct and the commuters are forced to travel in the dark. Kavita Pillai, a resident said, “The area has flourished a lot in past few years while the basic infrastructure has not improved greatly.”
 
 The residents complained that the poor quality of roads degrades during rains as water gets accumulated on the road and the depth of the   go invisible.
 
 Sanjay Valmik, a resident said, “The situation is very disturbing as many people have settled in the area and use the same road everyday. The increase of traffic flow on the road has created a demand to get the road re-carpeted.”
 
 On the other hand, the width of the road has also become a major challenge for the commuters of the road as house owners and other commercial complex owners have extended the boundary wall eating up the space of the road. The unnoticed encroachment has left little space on the road while the commuters are forced to drive in the left over space.
 
 Rajiv Dixit, a resident said, “If a heavy vehicle like a tractor comes from the opposite side, it become difficult to pass through the thin stretch left. At times, one has to drive in the reverse direction for several metres to give way to the heavy vehicles.”
 
 Another resident Sajeevan Singh said, “I wonder what the local bodies were up to all these years when the people extended their boundaries eating up the space on road. I just hope the local bodies wake up and get the temporary and permanent encroachments removed.”
 
 Anupriyam Verma, another resident said, “ My son got injured while riding a bicycle on the same stretch twice. Following this, I had to stop him from riding on the same road fearing major injuries.”
 
 
