Bhopal: Bad days are not yet over for for government-run hospitals. A team of Atomic Energy Regulatory Board (AERB) on Wednesday sealed three X-ray units of government-run hospitals while issuing notices to several others for failure to comply with safety norms.

 Similar enforcement drive will continue in Bhopal, Ujjain and Indore, simultaneously for next three days. In a first for Madhya Pradesh, AERB of Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC), Mumbai, is a monitoring agency that ensures implementation of safety and hygiene norms in hospitals and diagnostic centres.
 
 Four radiation emitting diagnostic machines, including X-ray units were sealed for a month at government-run Hamida hospital, Kamla Nehru hospital and Master Lal Singh Hospital. JP hospital x-ray machine will be offline for two days. AERB pointed out that open windows in laboratory and a radiation safety risk. Hospital has been given two days to comply.
 
 A surprise check was conducted in three private hospitals, including LBS Hospital, Chirayu Healthcare and Zigma Pathology. Anomalies ranging from lack of documentation to poor infrastructure were cited by the AERB team. The three hospitals were given 30 days for safety norms. Twelve caution notices were also issued.
 
 Experts estimate that at least 80% of machines do not have licence and pose health hazards to patients. AERB crackdown aims to put curbs on growing number of diagnostic units with poor radiations safety record. AERB is mandated to enforce safety norms.
 
 “In the recent past, AERB has notified all owners of medical diagnostic equipment like X-ray machines. Units found to be operating without AERB licences were sealed. Others were issued warning to quickly adhere to norms,” said AERB scientific officer and team head, BK Singh.
 
 “Prima facie not having operational licence is an unlawful act. We have initiated action and requested compliance. We are in an enforcement drive. Inspections will follow,” said Singh. Further non-compliance can lead to closure of a unit, fine and imprisonment. The 8-member team began their day from Gandhi Medical College (GMC). Split in three teams, the AERB officials began with sealing of X-ray machine in cancer unit at Kamla Nehru hospital. Shocked by the move, Gas Rahat hospital vented their ire on mediapersons.
 
 “AERB visit is an eye opener. We will review the situation,” said Dr JL Mishra, who recently took over as MP radiation safety officer. As per AERB guidelines, each state government is required to establish a directorate in collaboration with the AERB that would form a monitoring agency. However, in last 12 years there has been no real effort to enforce AERB guidelines 2004.
 
 As the news about the team’s visit spread, some private diagnostic centres pulled down shutters. The team is expected to examine radiation emitting machines in Ujjain and Indore, on Thursday.
 
 
