JALANDHAR: To avoid any legal complications, SAD has clarified that it is a political party and not a religious one. Initially, its Delhi unit had signed on the dotted line before the directorate of gurdwara elections that it was a recognized religious party in the NCR. 

 Spokesman and SAD secretary   told TOI on Sunday that party secretary general and Rajya Sabha member   had met the director, gurdwara elections, and made it clear that theirs was a political party and in the past too they had been contesting the election. “Our party has given in writing that ours is a registered political party with the   (EC) according to its rules,” he revealed.
 
 Form-A of the directorate for “communication with regard to authorised persons to intimate names of candidates set up by a recognized religious party” is a written undertaking. The party had identified itself as one as per paragraph 8 of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee election symbol (reservation and allotment) order 2017 for the purpose of getting a reserved symbol. 
 
 Five groups/parties, including SAD, Paramjit Singh Sarna-led SAD (Delhi), AAP MLA Avtar Singh Kalka headed Panthak Sewa Dal, former Akal Takht jathedar Bhai Ranjit Singh-led Akal Sahai Welfare Society and Aam Akali Dal, have been allotted reserved symbols. Delhi unit of SAD president Manjit Singh GK signed form-A for allotment of its reserved symbol “bucket” to party candidates. A few days back GK had told TOI that they got the election symbol after many legal wranglings. “We have always been contesting the DSGMC election and this time also there should be no problem,” he said. 
 
 Sources said that SAD had taken this step of submitting in writing that it was not a religious recognized party to avoid any further legal complication as it was already facing a petition in Delhi HC, seeking directions of the ECI to set aside the registration of SAD as it had allegedly obtained it on the basis of a false undertaking.
 
 The petition claimed that SAD gave a “false” undertaking to the ECI that it was secular party as required under Section 29(A) of Representation of People Act for its registration, even though it had always been a religio-political party and remained publicly aligned with Sikhism. He had contended that the alignment was evident as the SAD contested religious elections with an allotted symbol either directly or through its Delhi unit. The petitioner had also mentioned that SAD was contesting SAD and DSGMC election as per another constitution, which permitted only Singhs and Singhnis to become its members.
 
