BENGALURU: India’s most valued Internet companies —   and   — are grouping together with peers including travel portal   to launch an industry body that will represent the interests of local ventures and aim to create a moat against deep-pocketed global rivals, in one of the world’s most prized markets for digital commerce.

 The lobby group —   — led by Sachin Bansal, co-founder of Flipkart, as founding president and chairman will appoint a former IAS officer as CEO, said four people directly aware of the development.
 
 The former bureaucrat is expected to join in 2-3 weeks. The other founding members include online classifieds player   and messaging application Hike. “The group wants to become the Nasscom for the   space,” said two of the people cited above.
 
 The formation of the lobby group signals an aggressive stance by the country’s top Internet entrepreneurs, who have been insistent in their demand for policy support. 
 
 Flipkart’s Bansal and Ola’s Bhavish Aggarwal were among the first to raise their voice against what they termed as aggressive spending by overseas companies that distorts the chances of a level playing field for Indian players.
 
  
  Flipkart, Ola, MakeMyTrip, Quikr and Hike are expected to be a part of the group’s executive committee, with more companies expected to join in. The group is being set up as a non-profit and would have different layers of membership.
 
 “The main thrust of the lobby group will be to persuade the government that homegrown startups should dominate the local Internet ecosystem,” the sources said.
 
 To that end, the entrepreneurs have invited some of the world’s biggest investors — some of whom are also their backers — such as Japan’s SoftBank, New York-based Tiger Global Management, Hong Kong-based hedge fund Steadview Capital as well as venture capital firms like Accel India and Matrix Partners India to join the group.
 
 ET was unable to ascertain whether these investors will accept the invitation.
 
 Also, there is no clarity on whether other high-value Internet companies such as online payments and mobile wallet player  , online marketplace Shop-Clues and food delivery player Zomato will be a part of Indiatech. org.
 
 Apart from lobbying against overseas competition, the group’s charter also includes issues like job creation, skills training and providing resources to scale up Internet businesses.
 
 
 
 Indiatech.org, which is expected to start hiring in the coming week, has been in the works for over a year now, with Bansal leading the charge.
 
 The group, said the sources, believes that if homegrown Internet firms do not succeed, India will likely lose $10 billion of foreign direct investment and over $1 billion of tax revenues per year. The country could also lose the chance to create more than a million jobs, the group contends, basing its argument on how the Chinese Internet economy has grown.
 
 For sure, there are other lobbying organisations in the country such as Nasscom, which has an Internet, Mobile and   Council (NIMEC), as well as the IAMAI (Internet & Mobile Association of India) for the technology industry.
 
 But both these bodies have a significant representation of multinational Internet giants such as Google,   and Facebook.
 
 “This makes it difficult to push the agenda for a level playing field,” said the people privy to the group’s thinking.
 
 The creation of Indiatech.org provides a cohesive voice and structured platform to local players. This sentiment has been reflected by top bureaucrats, who feel there is no clarity yet on what specific measures local entrepreneurs want.
 
 “I wish that those who are advocating for this should tell us exactly what policy measures can help them. These people have also met me, but the problem is they are not being specific. Just citing China’s example is not enough,” Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion secretary Ramesh Abhishek had told ET Online in March this year.
 
