 
All roads will lead to Namma   from September 21, with the annual   festivities set to kick off. To be inaugurated by   writer and poet   atop the Chamundi Hills, the 407th edition of the Naada Habba Dasara will begin with puja to goddess Chamundeshewari. On the same day, Maharaja of Mysuru, Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, will conduct private darbar at the Palace, bringing alive the royal grandeur associated with Mysuru rulers. The private darbar will be held on all nine days of Navaratri.
 
 A plethora of cultural events, illumination of Palace, Circles, heritage structures and major roads of Mysuru will fascinate every visitor to the city at this time of the year. The festival will conclude on September 30 with the grand Vijayadashmi procession. 
 
 
 
 
 For the first time in Mysuru, an open street festival will be conducted on World Tourism Day (September 27). The entire stretch of D   will be kept vehicle free for the purpose. The event will see paintings, art exhibitions, music and organic food products and much more. 
 
 
 
 To accommodate the entire crowd that comes for the festivities, this year, the food mela will be held at MUDA ground near   helipad, apart from the regular venue, the Scouts and Guides ground. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Wanna catch an aerial view of Mysuru, then head to Lalith Mahal helipad for a helicopter joy ride. To be available till October 5, the 10-minute ride will give visitors. In a ten minutes ride, you can see Chamundi Hills, Palace, University of Mysore, Kukkarahalli Lake and  , among others.
 
 
 
 This edition of the Dasara film festival will be held only at multiplexes. Some of the best films from around the world will be screened. Sandalwood celebrities like Dhruva Sarja, Nanda Kishore, Rachita Ram and Sanchari Vijay are expected to attend the inaugural event.
 
 
 
 
 A floral replica of the historical   will be created at   with 4.2 lakh roses. Also on show will will be a floral Ambedkar statue.
 
  
 
 
 
 A 3D projection mapping at Town Hall will showcase the rich history and tradition of Mysuru in both Kannada and English. The story of   will be narrated on September 27, 28 and 29 between 8 pm and 10.30 pm.
 
 
 
 The Public Bicycle sharing system ‘Trin Trin’ will allow tourists to pedal across the city. Especially for the Dasara season, three manned bicycle stations have been created at the Balarama Gate, Ambavilas Gate and Varaha Gate. Considering the high traffic volume during the festival, getting across the city will be easier on a cycle. 
 
 
 
 Some of the major roads of the city that connect to the central business district now sport paintings of famous landscapes like Mahishasura statue, Chamundi Hills, Dufferin Clock Tower, folk arts and Nandi Bull, among others. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
