MUMBAI: The city may get a new prison in   to ease   in jails, the Bombay high court was informed on Wednesday. A division bench of Justices Vidyasagar Kanade and Chandrakant Bhadang were also told that the state had appointed KPMG Consultants to come up with a prison management plan to tackle overcrowding and other problems in prisons.

 The bench held a special hearing in the judges’ conference room of the high court to monitor progress of setting up video-conferencing facilities to connect jails and courts. Inspector general of police (prisons) Bhushan Upadhyay informed the bench that the state had identified and earmarked around 16 hectares in Turbhe Mandale in Mankhurd (E) for the proposed  . The proposal is awaiting sanction from the state urban development department. Mumbai has jails at  , Taloja and the Byculla women’s prison. 
 
 Upadhyay said the number of undertrials was increasing at Arthur Road and Taloja. He suggested that one way of handling the problem would be to follow a Supreme Court direction to not automatically arrest persons who have been accused of a crime that is punishable with less that seven years’ imprisonment.
 
 “Many prisons were constructed in British times. It is a matter of common knowledge that jails in   are overcrowded. The state will have to make plans that take into consideration the next 50 years,” observed Justice Kanade. The bench has suggested a one- or two-day seminar for judicial magistrates, sessions judges and police authorities to deal with the problem of overcrowding as well as making better use of video-conferencing facilities. 
 
 Additional public prosecutor Mankunwar Deshmukh said the state would connect the remaining 187 courts in Maharashtra through video-conferencing in six months time. The court also paved the way for private telecom companies to be involved in providing video-conferencing links after the authorities complained of connectivity problems of BSNL. The bench said the state should permit courts and jails to invite tenders from private operators desirous of bidding to provide video-conferencing facilities. 
 
 The video-conferencing project was initiated to tackle the problem of lack of police escorts to take undertrials to court for their remand hearings. The state said that it had set up 146 video-conferencing units in jails, 332 in courts and three at government offices. The HC bench said that in the long run the government will save money by installing the facilities. “Video-conferencing and the developments in science and technology are here to stay,” said the bench.
 
 
