Kolkata: A day before the deadline for exchanging demonetized currency for Indians who were abroad between November 9 and December 30, 2016, RBI’s Kolkata office was thronged by several who claimed they were harassed and their specified bank notes not accepted on Thursday. 

 Apurba Lal Mazumdar came to Kolkata from Murshidabad’s Jalangi. The mason who works in Saudi Arabia’s Wadi Baladiya had returned home on February 25. On Thursday, he claimed that   officials refused to entertain him on the grounds that he needed a certification from Customs officials that the SBNs were brought back by him. 
 
 “I had no idea about this certification from the Customs. I am at a loss as to who to consult so I don’t end up losing Rs 20,500.” 
 
 Most of those who came to the RBI office here had been abroad working as electricians, masons and jewellery makers. They said they were unaware about the Customs certification upon arrival in India. There is no mention of such certification on the notice put up on the RBI gate.
 
 According to the notice, resident Indians who were abroad from November 9 to December 30, 2016, have till March 31, 2017, to deposit the SBNs by producing Aadhaar card, PAN card, passport with immigration stamps on departure and arrival, and a copy each of all bank account statements as evidence that no SBNs were deposited during November 9 and December 30. 
 
 But there was no mention of the certification. 
 
 “I was told by RBI’s Patna branch to approach the Kolkata office. Accordingly, I reached by 10am. I was asked to produce a certification from the Customs about the Rs 65,000 I carried. I came back from   on March 7 and since I did not know about this, I did not get the certificate,” said  , a mason who worked in Madina. 
 
 Apart from those from  , there were some from Bihar and Odisha who said that RBI branches in their respective states had asked them to approach the RBI eastern region headquarters in Kolkata. 
 
 “I found the gates of RBI closed when I reached at 2pm. I wanted to go back home to Bihar tonight, but it seems like I have to stay till Friday,” said Sashi Bhushan Singh, a mechanic who works in Abu Dhabi. 
 
 Pabitra Nayak, crane operator with a shipping company in Oman, had come from Odisha. He, too, will have to stay overnight and approach officials with his SBNs amounting to Rs 12,000 on Friday.
 
