Organising a party at a venue near the airport with arrangements for   to impress guests? Beware, your party lights can just lead to some serious airport runway mishap. Also, you might just attract some uninvited guests – the cops. 

  In two separate incidents recently, pilots of two flights – a Malayasia-Delhi   and a Kolkata-Delhi flight – complained that while they were approaching runway 29 of IGI (Indira Gandhi International) airport, their vision was disturbed by a green laser light. In both the cases, the pilots reported the incidents to the Airport Operation Control centre. The CISF and Delhi Police were also asked to look into the matter and identify the source of the light – both times, they turned out to be party venues – one, a farmhouse in Mahipalpur and the other, a venue near the Haryana border.
 
  In fact, these are not the only two instances. In the past one year, many pilots have complained that laser lights from party venues are creating a nuisance. They say that when a beam of light enters the cockpit, it blinds pilots temporarily during landing, which, they fear, can lead to a mishap. A police official at the   confirmed that in the past one year, they received around 15 such complaints from pilots.
 
  
 Even though the Delhi Police has issued prohibitory orders with strict instructions against the use of laser beams at party venues near the IGI airport, the problem is far from tackled. And the police say that it’s not mainly the venues of the capital, but those in Guragaon and Faridabad, where these laser lights are more frequently used. Sanjay Bhatia, DCP, IGI Airport, says, "In Delhi, we have been able to create awareness regarding the dangers of using laser light at venues close to the airport. But I can’t comment on other cities. People continue to violate this law without understanding that it can lead to a disaster."
 
  
  
 
 
 When we asked the wedding planners about the ban and if they adhere to the law, they point out that while they know that the use of laser light is banned at venues near the airport, they can’t refuse their clients. A wedding planner tells us, "Our clients want laser light shows and not just at weddings but during pre-wedding ceremonies like the ring ceremony and tilak, too. People splurge on weddings and want the best and we have to meet their demand."
 
  A staff member at one of the venues near IGI airport tells us, "Yes, it is banned, but we have to use laser lights when there is a specific request from the client. Ban toh bahut saari cheezon par hai par follow kya hota hai? It's not justified to single out laser lights. And we are aware of the risks, so we minimise its use."
 
  Isn’t safety more important than celebration? "It is," says another wedding planner, "But it's very difficult to explain to people that these lights can be very dangerous; they keep insisting, saying things like 'zyada rang wali mat rakhna, kuch dekh lena'."
 
  
  
 
  So what's the solution? The wedding planner says, "People use it more often than it gets noticed. There is a need for sudden and more frequent raids at these venues to curb their use."
 
  
  
 
  Police officials, meanwhile, say that while they conduct raids at venues near the IGI airport, however, every wedding season, the number of such cases go up. 
 
  
 If venues close to the airport are found guilty of using laser lights, an FIR is registered against both the host and event management company under IPC Section 188. The guilty is punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend up to one month or with a fine, which may extend to Rs200, or with both.
 
 
