NEW DELHI: A perception survey of village panchayat heads across nine states appears to corroborate nationwide sowing data suggesting that   may not have had an immediate impact on  . 

 The survey conducted by Shubhashis Gangopadhyay, Nishant Chadha and Arijit Das of the research organisation India Development Foundation (IDF) covered 48 districts across nine states. 
 
 It was carried out between January 10 and January 20 and aimed to find out, based on early indicators, whether the impact of demonetisation was uniform across states. The states covered were  , Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Rajasthan,  , Telangana,   and Maharashtra. 
 
 At the end of the second week of January, government data showed that area sown for rabi crops was 616.2 lakh hectares, 6% higher than in the same period last year. 
 
 Sowing in the previous year, however, was influenced by deficient rainfall during the southwest monsoon. IDF’s survey data showed that area under rabi had either increased or remained the same in a little over half the villages surveyed. 
 
 Other key agricultural indicators such as fertiliser use also suggested that demonetisation did not have a negative impact. According to Gangopadhyay, the survey results showed that demonetisation did not have a uniform impact and there could other factors influencing the results on agriculture. Another indicator that has been widely used as a proxy to measure the impact of demonetisation is food prices. 
 
 In December, the consumer price index, which measures retail prices, showed a 1.3% inflation in food products, the lowest level in two years. Food prices have been low regardless of demonetisation, said Gangopadhyay. Prices started trending lower before PM Narendra Modi’s announcement of the demonetisation og high value currency notes on November 8 and the main reason for low food prices was weak aggregate demand in the economy, he added.The survey also covered the impact of demonetisation on the use of agricultural labour. The results showed that more than half the sample reported that the use of labour remained unchanged or had increased.
 
