BHOPAL: Irked over below average attendance of students in government schools, the district education officer pulled up all principals on Saturday. During a sudden inspection, DEO   Kumar Sharma found many students absent from schools. Most of the schools are witnessing chronic absenteeism after they opened after summer vacation. 

 “Principals are responsible for students’ education, and if they fail to take care of them, they are failing themselves,” Sharma told TOI. DEO called an urgent meeting of principals and asked them to ensure that attendance of students is 100 per cent. He asked principals to send a report of each and every student to their parent if they are absent from school. “The report must be sent through post cards or mobile phones or emails etc. All principals should ensure to put up a list of absent students on notice boards every day. The report should also reach my office every month,” Sharma told principals at the meeting. The meeting was held at Subhash Excellence School, Bhopal, and was attended by all principals. The state government recently launched a mega campaign ‘School Chalen Hum’ with fanfare, but poor turnout of students in government-run schools in the city has left authorities worried. Few days ago, when DEO visited some schools in Bhopal, he found many schools having attendance below average. “Look at your schools and compare them with the time 20 years back, you will find the difference. You are doing nothing to enhance enrolment,” furious DEO had told school heads.
 
 In recent past minister of state for school education   was also shocked after he found chronic absenteeism at schools upon a sudden visit. Meanwhile, the DEO has also tasked principals to send a group photograph of teachers everyday to DEO’s Whatsaspp number meant for internal complaints before the morning assembly begins. 
 
 “I want group photo of teachers every day on DEO Watsapp number. This will keep a check on teacher absenteeism,” he said. He said ‘School Chalen Hum’ must be vigorously promoted and action would be taken against schools that do not perform properly.
 
