JODHPUR: In a major drug haul on Friday night, Pali police seized over 200 kg poppy husk and 16 kg opium. The police have arrested six persons, including the notorious smuggler  , wanted by police in mane such cases.

 Police have also seized four vehicles from different persons, including the suppliers and those who had to take delivery from the gang.
 
 Bishnoi, also fired at the police, when a team tried to intercept him, which injured a policeman.
 
 According to SP (Pali)  , police had received a tip off that a huge consignment of poppy husk was on its way to Pali, following which a team of officers raised a check post near Birami toll.
 
 “At about 12.30 pm, a car was intercepted by the police, which was carrying 33 kg poppy husk. We seized the husk and arrested two persons in the car identified as Madaram Bishnoi and Bhagiratha Bishnoi,” said Bhargava.
 
 On interrogation, they said that two other persons Hanumanram Bishnoi and   in different vehicle with major consignment have headed to Rani.
 
 A separate team headed to nab them towards Rani, which spotted the vehicle at about 3 pm. When they were tried to be stopped, a gun shot was fired from the vehicle, which injured a policemen.
 
 “They tried to escape from the spot by hitting the police vehicle, but failed as their vehicle stuck in a crater on the road,” said Bhargava. 
 
 Police arrested both Bishnoi and Patidar and seized 150 kg poppy husk and 16 kg opium from their vehicle. On their information, one Kanaram Bishnoi was also arrested from a nearby farm with 15 kg of poppy husk, who had taken this delivery from Bishnoi barely a few hours back.
 
 In this entire exercise, police also laid its hands on one Rajaram Bishnoi, who was to receive his delivery of poppy husk from Bishnoi, and a luxury car with yet another consignment of poppy husk during the checking.
 
 “Hanumanaram Bishnoi is a hardcore criminal who have cases in different police stations of Pali for firing and drug smuggling, whereas Patidar is believed to have been a supplier, who belonged to Chittorgarh. He was accompanying Bishnoi from Chittorgarh itself,” Bhargava said.
 
 
