HYDERABAD: In one of the biggest crackdowns on bonded labour in the state, police arrested 29   owners from two villages in the Yadadri area of Rachakonda police comissionerate in the last 24 hours.

 Since January 3, the Rachakonda police rescued 411 children from brick kilns under its month-long ‘Operation Smile’. Through a series of articles, TOI has highlighted the plight of children and families working in these brick kilns. 
 
 The 29 brick kiln owners have been bringing workers from debt-ridden adivasi families on a seasonal basis over the past 10 years. The adivasis, many of whom face huge debts, are often exploited. Children between 13 and 17 years are made to work under hazardous conditions without food and water.
 
 The police registered cases against the owners under IPC sections 370 (human trafficking), 374 (unlawful compulsory labour), Juvenile Justice Act – 79 (exploitation of a child employee) and Child Labour Act, 1986. After producing them in court, all of them were remanded in judicial custody at Nalgonda jail and the Bhongir sub-jail.
 
 Rachakonda Commissioner  , who led ‘Operation Smile’ at Pedda Konduru, said, “the children have been sent to a school and arrangements are being made to provide mid-day meals. Officials are contemplating bringing Oriya teachers for them.” Most rescued children were found to be from Odisha. “The case filed against them (owners) is quite strong and we are looking to bring it to its logical conclusion soon,” he added.
 
 Telangana officials and the child welfare department of Odisha are currently discussing whether to rehabilitate the children in their home state or keep them in the city. Child rights activists insist that they should be taken back to Odisha as they would be able to adapt to the education provided there better.
 
 “There had been ambiguity about whether the police would initiate action against the owners as they had politically backing and the support of brick kiln association, but thanks to the media and authorities, action has been taken and it is only a matter of time before justice prevails,” said child rights’ activist Kanchukatla Subhash, who has been working closely with ‘Operation Smile’.
 
 The 11 brick kilns owners held from Pedda Konduru were identified as B Krishna, Ravala Venkateshwarlu, Mamila Palli Manoj Kumar, Malladri Venkatratnam, Kondapanaidu, Madra Rao, Mekla Venkataramanaiah, Chala Venkatratnam, Dhadu Prasad, Lakshmi Narayana and Markandeyulu. The other 18 brick kiln owners from Bommalaramaram are  , M Srinivas, B Kapura, Mekla Radhakrishna, M Jamla Naik, M Mahender, D Balakrishna, D Jagya, D Ramoji, D Devadasu, D Jamla, D Jagan, D Shankar, M Shankar, B Ramulu, D Srinivas, M Shankar and B Shankar.
 
