After it came to light that relatives of prisoners had used forged medical documents to procure interim bail for inmates,   ordered an inquiry into the matter.   has entrusted the inquiry to Crime Branch after the high court registry found that bogus medical certificates of VS Hospital and UN Mehta Heart Institute were submitted to procure bail in 97 cases between 2015 and December last year. It is learnt that accused in Naroda Patiya riot case were among those who had sought bail.

 The whole issue was started in July last year when   was hearing bail pleas of certain prisoners and entrusted inquiry to the Vigilance department of the high court into medical papers attached by relatives of the prisoners. Most of them had bail applications on the ground of ailment of close relatives while seeking interim bail. In a report submitted recently, the Vigilance department had concluded that the doctors never treated those persons or fake documents were created to prepare the medical papers.
 
 
 
 
 “R D Vaja, the then  , forwarded letter to UN Mehta Institute of Cardiology and VS Hospital enclosing photocopy of case papers of medical treatment of the patient along with case papers of bail application which have been produced before this court for examination. Out of 97 bail applications, 24 applications were sent to UN Mehta Hospital and 73 applications were sent to VS Hospital along with xerox copies of each treatment booklets to examine each and every case papers separately to the concerned doctors. Some of the available doctors’ statements were also recorded,” stated the court order citing the report submitted by the Vigilance department.
 
 The report further said, “All the concerned doctors of UN Mehta Hospital and VS Hospital denied the treatment and advice written on the booklets by themselves or their colleague’s doctors. They have submitted their report to the concerned RMOs denying the opinion, advice, handwriting and signature. Thus, the documents (treatment booklets last pages were tampered with by correction, addition and extra write up) by some unknown persons e.g. the operation of the patient is fixed on such date, patient is very serious, _____% blood vessels of the heart patient is blocked, only patients Treatment Booklet bearing name, address are genuine because anybody can get the booklet paying necessary fees on the window (counter).”
 
 It also said, “According to the doctors of both the hospitals, the treatment, diagnosis and advice for certain tests and operation is not written in medico-legal terms. It appears that, some unknown English knowing person has written these details, got them copies and produced them before this court and cheated this court.” The court order further said, “It appears that in the present case serious matter of creating bogus papers is involved and that should be investigated thoroughly by Crime Branch, Ahmedabad City.” All matters were filed by advocate and when the court asked his explanation, he submitted that he was innocent and Mahesh Rathod, a resident of Gomtipur, managed to get bail applications with all medical certificates to file in HC.
 
 
