NAGPUR: Even in his wildest dream, Vidarbha’s only Grandmaster   wouldn't have thought of playing alongside the likes of world champions   and   in a tournament where he was seeded 55 but finished joint third.

 Two months before the start of the   at Douglas, Dhopade was on waitlist but got a berth as the 55th seed alongside top seed Carlsen, world’s best GMs  ,  ,   and his “childhood hero” Anand as No 4 seed.
 
 “It was like a dream come true to rub the shoulders with world’s top chess masters. I was hoping to play against Carlsen and Anand but did not get the opportunity. I am happy to be a part of such a high-level tournament,” Dhopade told TOI in an exclusive chat.
 
  
  
 
 He said, “Before this tournament, I was under the impression that these guys must be far a better player than me but after playing against them, I realized that they were not unbeatable.”
 
 Having had many firsts in his 17-year chess career, Dhopade remained unbeaten in the nine-round meet and scored 6.5 points for his “best performance till date”. He finished just half-point behind Anand (7) and a point behind the eventual champion Carlsen (7.5).
 
 The 27-year-old shared the joint third position with nine higher-ranked masters and claimed the 12th spot in a strong field of 160 players from across the world including 70 GMs.
 
 With four wins and five draws, Dhopade, who became  's only GM in 2015, gained 28 rating points and performed at an Elo of 2768. The Amravati-born Railway employee Dhopade also surprised former World Championship Challenger Nigel Short in the penultimate round.
 
 Dhopade claimed this was his “best performance to date”. “I had a very poor result in the Malaysian Open and was determined to bounce back. So I trained systematically for this tournament because I knew a lot of world’s top players were going to participate and I will face a very strong opposition.”
 
 He added, “Luckily for me all my preparations especially in the opening phase came handy. I was better in all the games except the last one where I was on the backfoot but managed to hold the last year's champion to a draw. Anand’s participation also motivated me to do well, his passion for chess is contagious.”
 
 “When I met Vishy after the fourth round, I just asked for a selfie and he obliged. After taking the picture, I thought he would go, but rather he inquired about my result. Together we analyzed our games with some variations blindfold without a chess board,” he said.
 
 Though he didn’t get a chance to interact with Carlsen, Dhopade clicked a picture with him also. After an impressive performance, almost at par with Anand, Dhopade again had a chance to interact and learn a few things from the five-time world champion.
 
 He said, “At the prize distribution, Anand asked me if I was better in the final position of the last round. He felt my knights were doing well against the Bishop of Ukraine's Eljanov Pavel. I said yes may be but I was not so sure about it. Then he asked me who offered a draw in that position. I told that my opponent offered a draw."
 
 “He said that it means you were better because otherwise he would not offer a draw. This was an interesting insight. Because I never really thought from this psychological point. This type of thinking comes when you have a vast experience of top level tournaments. Also when you talk to champions like Vishy. There's always something to learn even in most casual conversations with him,” said Dhopade.
 
