JAIPUR: Villagers in Baytu tehsil of   have approached district administration seeking compensation after homes were damaged by blasts triggered by a private firm exploring for oil and natural gas. On Wednesday night, at 8.48 pm, people rushed out of their homes in Kawas, Madpura, Barwala, Raoji ki dhani and other villages in the area fearing an earthquake. Several homes developed cracks on the walls and glass on windows of shops in the area shattered.

  lal of Kawas village told  , “My business will take a hit as the godown, where I stock gypsum, has been damaged. The walls of my home too have developed large cracks. The government must offer us compensation.”
 
 Cairn, the oil and natural gas exploration vertical of British mining giant Vedanta, has been exploring in this region. Vedanta’s website says: “The oil and gas fields in the   block constitute cairn’s key assets in rajasthan. The Mangala field -- considered to be the largest onshore hydrocarbon find in india in the last two decades -- was discovered in january 2004. This was followed by the discovery of Aishwariya and Bhagyam fields. To date, 38 discoveries have been made in the Rajasthan block. The production sharing contract (psc) for the project was signed on may 15, 1995. In 1997,   acquired an interest in the block. In 2002, cairn acquired 100% of the exploration interest and assumed the role of operator.”
 
 The website mentions that 417 mmboe (million barrels of oil equivalents) were produced by the Rajasthan block spread over 3,111 sq km in Barmer district by the first quarter of financial year 2015-16. Officials at cairn could not be contacted on Sunday for comments.
 
 Barmer Intach convener Yashovardhan Sharma said, “The blast occurred near kawas village, in the area of the aishwarya well number 7. From initial accounts that I have received, it seems villages in a radius of about 80 km from the site of the blast have been affected.”
 
 Dharama Ram, who stays in just half a km from the blast site in   village, told TOI, “The water tank fell, and there is massive damage to my walls. I have petitioned the district collector and tehsildar for compensation.”
 
 On Thursday, district officials visited the areas affected by the blast. Villagers have sought that the administration survey damages and offer compensation to those affected. Sub-divisional magistrate, Barmer, Chetan Ram Tripathi told TOI that a survey is currently on. “By tomorrow evening, we expect results of the survey and will be able to make an estimate of the need for compensation.”
 
 In July this year, 25 people were arrested by Rajasthan police, which cracked a criminal syndicate stealing at least 50 million litres of crude oil in water tankers from Cairn oil fields. More than 75 people, many of them working in the oil fields as contractors, were still wanted in this connection. Drivers authorized to carry water – a byproduct of oil exploration – had been filling tanks with crude oil instead. The theft may have been going on for about six years before being detected, senior police officials admitted. India imports nearly 82% of its crude to meet energy requirements. 
 
 
