BENGALURU: BJP legislators stalled the ongoing   of the assembly for the second consecutive day on Friday over the  .

 The BJP members resumed their protest in the well of the House, claiming they were being denied an opportunity to raise the issue.
 
 Speaker K B Koliwad, however, maintained that the diary contents cannot be discussed as a point of order that it was “inconsequential“.
 Permission for a discussion on the issue was given on Thursday but was withdrawn later.
 
 The House was adjourned briefly after the protest continued and a meeting of the floor leaders was called by Koliwad.
 
 BJP MLAs claimed the diary had such an impact on the Congress government that CM   and some senior ministers, including K R  , appealed to them to drop the subject and move on to the discussions over the state budget. The House reconvened, only to be stalled by the agitating BJP MLAs, and was adjourned till Monday.
 
 Speaking to mediapersons later, Leader of the Opposition   said there was gross procedural lapse on part of the speaker, who was allegedly influenced by the government to withdraw the consent given to discuss the controversial diary seized from MLC Govindraju's house. 
 
 Giving more ammunition to the BJP, Koliwad rejected the party's proposal to move an adjournment motion to discuss the severe drought condition in Karnataka as a separate topic.
 
 “The speaker has rejected our adjournment motion to have an indepth discussion on the drought and asked us to speak on the subject during the budget discussions. When we raised the issue of corruption and the diary, the CM pointedly told us not to waste time and speak on the drought in the state. And when we moved an adjournment motion to speak on the matter, it was denied,“ Shettar said.
 
 BJP'S BID TO GAIN POLITICAL MILEAGE: SIDDARAMAIAH
 
 Alleging that the BJP was raising the diary scandal to gain political mileage, CM Siddaramaiah said in the house on Friday: “The BJP is trying to garner political mileage with poll in mind. But I swear they won't come to power. The Congress will get people's mandate in the 2018 polls.“ He said the BJP didn't believe in parliamentary democracy and had a sizeable number of leaders in jail. “Who will believe these BJP MLAs who have been jailed?“ he asked.
 
