Film lovers woke up to good news on Friday morning; the first updates of the 22nd   ( ) had been put up. Among the seven films to be screened under ‘Malayalam Cinema Today’ section were Sanal Kumar Sasidharan's controversy-riddled Sexy Durga and Thondimuthalum Driksakhiyum, while the jury had picked two Malayalam entries for the Competition Section. However, right after the list of films was revealed by the Chalachitra Academy, news came in that Sexy Durga, a film that had won several international honours, had been withdrawn from the fest by its director. 

 With the IFFK, which will be held from December 8-15, already finding itself in the thick of controversy, we talk to a few film critics and IFFK fans to know more about their views on the selection process.
 Such controversies are nothing new to IFFK, points out film critic A Chandrasekhar. “Last year, there was a similar issue where RS Vimal had withdrawn his film, Ennu Ninte Moideen, from the Malayalam Cinema Today section, as he wanted it screened under the Competition Section. And Sanal himself had raised concerns about his film Ozhivudivasathe Kali not being included in the Competition Section. The jury selects Malayalam films for the IFFK to showcase to the world the changes in Malayalam cinema over the course of a year, whatever the section they come under. They also look for something new, in a commercial film. The aim is to promote films which showcase the aesthetic feel of Malayalam cinema, not to help commercial films get better business.”
 
 The former journalist and award winning critic, who was a member of the former IFFK jury panels says that for the past few years, the IFFK panel has been including non-Malayali jury members as well who can spot this new approach, whether a film is off-beat or commercial. For example, he says, “there is a change in the nature of some of the commercial films now, and   is an 
 example.”
 
 The list includes some good choices to catch in this year’s IFFK, says film enthusiast and reviewer, Hareesh N Nampoothiri, “Maybe the IFFK panel could have also considered Godha. It’s a film which focuses on a sport, which is not that common in Malayalam films. And maybe Njandukalude Naattil Oridavela as well, as the film is about showing a serious subject in a lighter vein. Both are by newcomers.”
 
 National-award winning film critic and documentary filmmaker CS Venkiteswaran is of the opinion that the festival should be an attempt to provide exposure to young filmmakers. “Experimental, independent and young filmmakers outside the industry must be given opportunities as the IFFK is a venue to promote Malayalam films. They will get a confidence in their art when given a space in venues like these.”
 
 Hareesh agrees, as he feels that youngsters make genuine attempts to give Malayalam cinema a new dimension nowadays. “The young directors want their films to be successful in the box office, while offering something different or artistically satisfying. I won’t term them as regular commercial flicks, as they belong to their own genre. Perhaps we can coin a new term which denotes a film which has the best of both commercial and offbeat genres.”
 
 However Hareesh also raises his concerns about slotting over 200 films in a single festival. “An average viewer can watch only around 30-35 films at the festival. They might also miss some of their favourites owing to a clash of timings. Also in some of the entries in the package sections, I have felt that some films are so bad that you wonder if the officials have watched the films before including them. So, rather than increasing the number of films in the list, they should ensure the films, even if they are 150 or less, are satisfying for the film enthusiasts who are planning to visit the annual fete in the capital city.”
 
