PUNE: Ahead of the district administration’s   with residents of seven villages in Purandar taluka, where   acquisition for the proposed airport will be carried out, the administration has been asked to   land records.

 A detailed review of the mutation extracts of Pargaon, Ekalpur, Munjawadi, Kumbharvalan, Udachiwadi, Vanpuri and Khanavadi villages is being conducted .
 
 Officials are going to these villages, checking records and putting the names of legal heirs on land records, in case of demise of land holders. The work is expected to be completed by month end.
 
 “While work is being undertaken for all villages in the district and Purandar taluka, we have been asked to finish the work in these villages on a priority basis,’’ stated SDO Purandar Sanjay Asawale.
 
 Talathis have been given the task of reaching out to villagers, checking and correcting the property documents and getting them registered. The corrected documents will be scanned and made available in the digital format. Officials stated that digitised documents will provide clarity on the land title. Senior revenue officials mentioned that since the government intends to approach   with a rehabilitation model, the land title to be acquired needs to be updated.
 
 Generally, for any kind of acquisition several litigations crop up even as the concerned land holder has been paid. “We want to ensure that lands acquired have a clear title. The first step will be correction followed by digitisation,’’ stated the officials.
 
 The digitisation of land ownership has been undertaken in the state and is in various stages of completion. Revenue officials are working with the settlement commissioner and land records department. The process is on in each district.
 
 A special drive has been undertaken on reading of records in public to ensure that the documents are corrected before they are updated. There were several complaints regarding these records with most of them being updated with wrong spellings. The edit software has been used to correct the entire documents, which have been updated. In Pune district alone, over 14 lakh land title documents are being digitised by 616 talathis and the work is expected to be completed by May 31.
 
