AHMEDABAD:  , allegedly a key operative of the  , Indian Mujaheedin, had travelled to Surat from Ahmedabad to plant 29 bombs in the  . Sources in the   claimed that Bhatkal was present in Surat on July 26, 2008 when 20 bombs went off in Ahmedabad.

  Sources in the city police alleged that Bhatkal had then fled to Koppa in Udipi district of Karnataka with Abdul Subhan alias Taukeer, another alleged IM member, and spent a few days there.
 
 During the second round of questioning on Sunday, Bhatkal reportedly told crime branch and Gujarat ATS sleuths that IM was planning to carry out bigger attacks in Gujarat after the July 2008 serial blasts. Incidentally, Bhatkal has already been sentenced to death along with his accomplice, Ashadullah Akhtar alias Haddi, in the 2013 Dilsukhnagar blasts case of Hyderabad. 
 
 “Bhatkal had thought that after carrying out serial blasts in Jaipur, Bangalore and Delhi, they would get away with Ahmedabad serial blasts too. But within a week of the terror attack, Gujarat police caught the key operatives and thwarted their plans of bigger attacks in the state,” a crime branch official said.
 
 Police said they have records of chats between Bhatkal and Haddi which point to their deadly plans in Gujarat. “On the instructions of Riaz and Iqbal Bhatkal, Bhatkal had then met ISI of Pakistan and formed Shaeed al-Zarkawi brigade to strike in Gujarat,” a police officer said.
 
 Bhatkal wanted to use IM operatives of Pune module to be in the brigade. The Pune module had carried out the German Bakery blasts.
 
 “During one of his chats with Haddi, Bhatkal had mentioned that they would attract attention only if they strike in Gujarat. They wanted to avenge the killing of Muslims in 2002 communal riots and also the demolition of Babri masjid,” a police officer said.
 
 Police said that after an unsuccessful attempt by some alleged IM operatives to escape from Sabarmati jail by digging a 213-feet tunnel, Bhatkal wanted to carry out a fidayeen attack on the jail to free 12 key operatives. “However before he could put his plan into action, Bhatkal and his associate were nabbed from Raxaul on the Indo-Nepal border in Bihar,” a crime branch official said.
 
