Udaipur/Ahmedabad: Nine people from Gujarat, including seven pilgrims headed to Haridwar, were killed and at least 28 injured in a road   near Nehla village at the Balicha bypass on the Ahmedabad-Udaipur National Highway 8, on Saturday morning. Those killed belong to Ahmedabad, Dehgam and Bhavnagar.

 The accident took place on Saturday morning when a speeding trailer crashed into the bus carrying some 55 pilgrims from behind. Due to the impact, the bus ran over a biker and a man driving a gearless scooter in front of it and was thrown about five feet off the road. 
 
 Eyewitnesses said that shrieks for help and wails of pain rented the air as injured passengers who were humming devotional songs just minutes earlier cried for help. Cops from Govardhan Vilas police station reached the spot and had to break open the badly mangled bus to rescue passengers from its twisted body.
 
 Those killed include the motorcyclist, Prakash Sharma, a resident of Udaipur; Pune-resident Pankaj Yadav and a Gujarat resident, Gaffarbhai (45). 
 
 Among the pilgrims killed are three residents of Vejalpur in Ahmedabad — Neeruben Dhanjibhai, a resident of Laxmikrupa Soceity; Varsha Solanki, a resident of Shivalay Flats and Pushpa Bhoire, a resident of Ishwarkrupa Society. Dehgam residents Praveenaben Gunvantbhai and Renukaben Kanhaiyalal also succumbed. Narmadaben Ambalal was also killed in the accident but police have not yet ascertained her place of residence. 
 
 Reports from Udaipur suggested that those injured include residents of Ahmedabad, Modasa, Rajkot and other places in the state.
 
 The Sangam Travels bus had started its journey to Haridwar from Vejalpur in Ahmedabad on Friday. Each passengers had paid Rs 6,000 to hear the Bhagwat Katha in Haridwar for seven days. It was to be a 16-day pilgrimage. 
 
 “Most of the passengers on the bus were between 50 years and 60 years old. We had planned the trip to various holy places including Pushkar, Jaipur etc,” said the tour organizer, Shardaben. 
 
 (Inputs from Geetha Sunil 
 
 in Udaipur) 
 
 
