Room number 805 at a popular hotel in the city was so quiet that one wouldn't have believed that it had a celebrity staying there. No bouncers staring at you, no managers hurrying you up...it was just normal.Entering the room was quite simple, as if you were there to meet a friend of yours. As we stepped inside, the charming   quietly walked in. Carrying off a denim-on-denim look in style, the gorgeous actress sits comfortably, munching on a piece of cake, and begins, 'I guess it has been nearly a year-and-a-half since I came to Chennai.' Sonakshi, who was in the city for an event recently, recalls, 'The last time I came here was for  's audio launch. I loved exploring the city when I was really young, but I don't have much memories of it,' she says.

 Though she got to make her south debut with  , the film didn't do well at the BO. 'I don't have any regrets about it -I still think it was the perfect launch for me in south. I got to work with some amazing people and it was such a big production.More than the box office performance, it was the experience that mattered to me most. An opportunity to play the lead opposite Rajini sir in the first film is a rarity. Also, the feedback on my role and performance were really appreciated. Even today, so many people ask me when am I doing my second Tamil film,' she says. While so much has been spoken about Bollywood actors working in south film industries, Radhika Apte's recent allegation about disparity existing between treatment of male and female actors in Kollywood grabbed the attention of many. 'That has never happened to me here. I was given amazing treatment...in fact, more so like a queen. But I am sure it happens in other film industries, too. I have heard of stories. But films apart, that exists in corporate and other industries, too. But slowly, I feel things are changing for women,' she opines.
 
 Sonakshi was more than happy to share her thoughts about south directors Murugadoss and Prabhudheva, with whom she had worked with in Bollywood. Having done a couple of south remakes, Sonakshi says, 'When they approached me for those films, I felt that was the kind of cinema that was being lapped up even in the north. My first film projected me like a quintessential Indian heroine. So, I thought I fit into those characters well. They were super hits here, and some were big hits even there. I could connect well with the directors as they were happy with my work and projected me in a way that audiences liked me.'
 
 With rumours doing the rounds that she has been roped in to be a part of Murugadoss's next with  , Sonakshi says she doesn't mind working with the director again. 'I am always grateful to Murugadoss sir for making me a hero in Akira. He portrayed me in a way which audience had never seen. If he would like to approach me, I would definitely consider it. I have done two films with him -Holiday and Akira -and he's a fantastic director. If he would ever want me to work with him again, I would be more than happy to do it.
 
 Also, Vijay is a fine actor. I have seen Thuppaki and Kaththi -so, why not?' she asks.
 
 It's been six years in the industry for the actress. She feels she's matured as an actress to take both success and failures in its stride. She says, 'I might have done certain kind of films for a period of time when I began, but I have always been particular about the kind of roles that I chose to play . Also, I am instinctive about the work I choose. Yes, there has been time when I was on a roll. At the same time, there were times when my films didn't do well. I have no regrets, though, as learning mattered to me. It was my films that bettered me as an actor. If you take Akira, it was something new for the audience. If you compare the collection of Akira and a film which has a lead actor and actress, my film actually did well. It is a special film for me as nobody has seen me in that avatar before. It sent out a message to the producers that this girl can hold a film in her shoulders. If there's some thing that you can experiment with, I think the time is right now. We are fortunate to be working right now as roles are being written with girls in mind. It is a big shift in cine ma.' So, the question of inse curity never crops up? 'I guess I don't have anything to be insecure about. We are already being pitted against each other by others that when I meet a co-actress, there is no animosi ty,' she says.
 
 Having dealt with body shaming, trolls on her fore head or simply viewing of the female body -the actress says that she's a lot more confident about herself today . 'Every girl needs to understand that it is not about the way you look or how you project yourself, but it's about the talent you possess. I feel if you are confi dent about the different aspects of your life, everything else falls into place. Looking pretty is not the only thing that gives you confidence. Yes, peo ple do have a certain image about women because that is what has been fed to us for a long time. I see many girls breaking out of their mould and going out of their way to ensure to be real and confident. I am one of those women. If I am fit today, it is just that I wanted to up my fitness level and not under pressure to look a certain way . There are times when I give back to my trolls or just keep quiet about it. It totally depends on my mood, though. But keeping quiet is the best way to deal with it,' she laughs and signs off. 
 
