Whether it is the mass   on New Year's Eve or actor   being bullied and abused by drunken goons on a busy Karve Road on Thursday , one thing remains common, the mute spectators on the road. These two recent incidents and numerous others we all witness in our daily lives, definitely raise an important question ­ are we suffering from the Mute Spectator  ?

 In a recent social experiment, a few Fergusson college students tried to bring out people's response in such situations. The results were shocking. One of the par ticipants, Sairaj Dhumal informs, “I acted as a victim of road rage, with some of my friends acting as goons. During the act, I went around asking for help from the spectators who did not know it was a social experiment. But people chose to remain silent and not react or help the victim.“STALKED, STABBED AND KILLED
 
 Antara Das, a 23-year-old techie from Kolkata, was recently   and stabbed multiple times, in Talawade in Pune. After she was stabbed, she ran towards people screaming “Bachao, Bachao“ before colliding with a motorcyclist Satyendra Krushnanad Sinha, who then rushed her to the hospital, where she was declared brought dead. Had more people come to her rescue while she was being stabbed, she might have been saved and the stalker nabbed.
 
  
  
 
 Earlier this week, actor Aroh Welankar was heading home, when he stopped on Karve Road to pick up a friend.“While I was waiting at the side of the road, someone honked continuously from behind. When I took my car further aside, to make way for the car behind, the driver and his friend came ahead and began abusing me. I refused to take the bait and just asked him to go on ahead. They got enraged and one of them got down from their car and began throwing punches at me. I was taken aback, but I quickly closed the window of my car. Enraged further, both of them then began hurling insults at me while one of them also started looking for big stones to pelt at my car,“ Aroh narrates. The whole incident took place at a busy junction on Karve Road at around 5 pm during peak hours.
 
 The incident caused a traffic jam, but Aroh says none of the spectators or passers by stopped to help him or calm the situation. “Such incidents take place regularly on roads. But surprisingly no one bothers to help the victim. People choose to ignore and walk past the incident taking place, or stop and watch for personal entertainment,“ he adds. Another such situation was faced by actor Astad Kale last year. “It was Independence Day , when some people chose to drive their vehicles through the No Entry zone near my house.“
 
 Astad simply asked them not to break the traffic rule.“They got enraged and directly threatened to kill me.There were people around, but no one chose to come and help calm down the perpetrators. I posted about the incident on social media, wherein a lot of people said they'd come and help me. But in reality, just one of my very close friends came to my rescue. I decided to drop the issue as I am rarely in Pune because of my busy schedule, but my folks stay here and I don't want them to be harassed by those goons,“ he adds.
 
  
  
 Normally , one would have let the issue of road rage drop for the fear of going to the police station to lodge a formal complaint and the resulting court case. “I took down their vehicle number and went ahead to lodge an FIR against them. On my way, I saw them, just 500 meters ahead of me, doing the same thing to another person.That strengthened my resolve to have them punished,“ informs the 26-year-old actor, known for his role in Rege.
 
 The police caught the two bullies -Pravin Dynaneshwar Mohol and Sangram Sudam Tangde -at the same place. “They even abused the police, who were in civil clothes,“ adds Aroh. Capt. Amitabh Waje, also expressed the concern about the people being mute spectators. He said, “We don't want specatators to go and indulge in fight during an unpleasant incident, but at least what they can do is try to calm the aggrieved persons and call the police immediately.“
 The inherent fear of being dragged into the case by the police deters many spectators from helping in such incidences. Gaurav Bachhao Patil, a law student explains, “Many people don't want to be dragged unnecessarily in such situations. Many times people do not help accident vicitims for the same reason. But I feel, everyone should help without taking law in their hands. If the cops support such people, who are helping the victims, without dragging them in case, then I feel more people will come forward to help the victims.“
 
 
 
 When we asked around, there are some students who were well-versed in defense techniques, who offered to help victims. Shreya Landhe, a science student from Wadia College says, “As I am aware about defense techniques so I will use it if anyone is being harassed by goons.“ Echoing the same, Sidhaant Salunkay, an Arts student from Fergusson College adds, “There was an incident where we were travelling with friend and one person was being beaten by some goons on the road. Since we knew some self-defence techniques, we decided to intervene and help the victim using those techniques.“
 
  
  
 
 
 According to the Pune police, the Control Room receives calls from eye witnesses, but no one comes forward to help the victim or lodge a formal complaint. Shilpa Lambe, Police Sub Inspector at the Deccan Police Station informs, “Citizens are scared of being beaten or getting hurt in such situations, so they prefer to call the police Control Room instead of intervening.“ S A Patil, a police Hawaldar adds, “People fear that police may ask them to be witness if a case is lodged and that deters them from helping. In case of accidental death, etc. we ask people to be witnesses. It is neither a painful nor a troublesome experience to be police witnesses, so I'd urge people to come forward and help instead of being mute spectators.“
 
 
 
  
 
