VADODARA: M S University has not just scored poor when it comes to academics but Gujarat’s only English medium university needs to pull up its socks when it comes to hygiene as well. 

 After its dismal performance in the overall ranking of universities done by   ministry of human resource development (MHRD) earlier this year, the university now does not find a mention in ‘Swachhta Ranking 2017’ done by  . 
 
 Although MSU was one of the 3,500 institutions that had participated in the   – the first ever survey to check hygiene levels in higher education institutes in the country – its name does not figure in the list of 25 institutes which received Swachhta Award. 
 
 Not just MSU, not a single university or educational institute from Gujarat – Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state – has figured in the list of 25 institutes which were conferred awards in four categories, including universities, colleges, technical institutions and government institutions. 
 
 In fact, while MSU officials were expecting a visit from MHRD’s team to inspect its campus before the ranking results were announced, it received no feedback after it applied in the survey. 
 
 Sources suggest that one of the critical parameter for judging the participating universities was whether they have carried out Swachhta activities or cleanliness movement outside their campus – a parameter on which MSU completely failed. 
 
 Through the survey, the universities were asked whether they have covered villages outside their campus, the number of villages they have covered, the approximate population of the villages, the awareness camps organized in the last year and whether there is any improvement in amenities in these villages.
 
 In the absence of any such outreach effort, MSU had nothing to showcase on this front. 
 
 University engineer N K Ojha said the university had made all the efforts to make a mark in the ranking. 
 
 “We had done good work on this front. We have already outsourced the cleaning work of hostel washrooms. Similarly, our entire campus is cleaned on daily basis – which is also done by an outside agency.   collects solid waste on daily basis and although at a small level, we are treating organic waste in an innovative way through biogas,” he said. 
 
 “On the parameter of greenery, we have more than 60 per cent open area in our campus which is green. Recently, we have renovated all the hostels, where hygienic condition of halls and dinning areas too has been improved,” he added. 
 
 Interestingly, the university officials had even asked all its faculties to remain prepared for physical inspection from MHRD team for which funds were also allocated for the head of facilities and service charges collected from students. 
 
 In April this year, the university had failed to even maintain its 76th position in the overall ranking of the universities when the MHRD released its National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) report.
 
 
