NEW DELHI: Almost a year after work started to dismantle it,   is all set to redesign the controversial   corridor. The 6.2-km stretch from   to   station will be made a regular road at a cost of roughly Rs 80 crore.

 In February last year, officials had said that the entire work of dismantling and redesigning the Rs 190-crore corridor would cost Rs 10.97 crore. “This was when the plan was to convert this stretch into an ordinary road. The work would have included redesigning of junctions, installation of a new signalling system, subways, foot overbridges, etc. Now, there is a plan to construct five half submerged or humped subways along the stretch and redesign it completely, which is why the budget has increased,” said a senior official.
 
 The humped subways will include retail outlets, along with public conveniences, like toilets. Officials said that the stretch would not be given any new foot overbridges and that pedestrians would either use the subways, one of which already exists, or cross the road at-grade. “The subways will be less than 1m below ground level so that they are safe for pedestrians. All junctions will have demarcated crossovers for pedestrians and non-motorised vehicles while major junctions will have table tops to allow pedestrians to cross over quickly,” the official said.
 
 The existing foot overbridge near the Ambedkar Nagar T-junction and subway near   flyover will both be replaced by humped subways.
 
 Sources said that the plans would be submitted to UTTIPEC shortly and once administrative and financial approvals were received, PWD would invite tenders. “Construction work itself will take about a year but the exact time-frame will be determined by utility shifting,” said the official.
 
 Under the redesigning plan, some part of the slip roads will be converted into public spaces. Officials said this would be done at locations where the slip roads were used for parking. Meanwhile, special on-road parking will also be created between Chirag Delhi and Ambedkar Nagar.
 
 The BRT corridor was made operational in 2008 but came in for major criticism due to poor planning. Traffic jams lasting for an hour or two were routine along the stretch.
 
 
