New Delhi: Swiss food giant   spent much of last year spreading awareness about the importance of educating girls through various media, including digital and on-ground activities. Its message this year: Provoke action through print. Nestle’s tie-up with the   for the ‘Power of Print’ contest is the second phase of its strategy to help millions of Indian girls reach the classroom, as research by   has shown women’s education impacts economies. 

 “Educating girls and women is a matter of national importance,” said Chandrasekar Radhakrishnan, senior VP & head of communication and e-commerce at Nestle India. “We have realised that driving and provoking action towards this singular cause can only be achieved by collaborating with society. The partnership with the Times Group provides an extraordinary opportunity to do that.”
 
 The ‘Power of Print’ contest invites creative agencies to prepare a print campaign on  . The winning campaign will run across Times Group publications on a multi-crore budget by Nestle and its creators will get to visit the mecca of advertising, Cannes. 
 
 “Print advertising is effective because words linger in your mind long after you put down a newspaper or a book,” said K V Sridhar, founder & chief creative officer of Hyper Collective and a member of the jury for ‘Power of Print’. 
 
 Another jury member, Bobby Pawar, MD & chief creative officer of  , said he gets irritated on being told that people don’t read anymore.
 
 “It’s a fact that attention spans have become shorter but that doesn’t mean that if you have something brilliant, people won’t read,” said Pawar. He gave the example of Burger King’s “McWhopper” newspaper ad that set off a viral explosion. In the ad that appeared in major US newspapers, Burger King invited rival McDonald’s to create a cross-brand burger for Peace Day. “Or for instance, look at VW’s ‘talking newspaper ad’, which was talked about for months,” he said. “Print ads of the future can be interactive, they can be used to kick-start social media campaigns, you can embed tech — it all depends on working hard to create something awesome and get out of ‘use-print-only-as-a-retail-medium’ mentality.”
 
 
