Anxiety hangs in the air here as families of   wonder what will become of their loved ones, given US president  's plans to deport  . As hate crimes spiral and promising futures get clouded in uncertainty, Punjabi netizens, especially those settled in US, have taken to humour to deal with the situation.The subject of most jokes is Trump while the others are examples of black humour, in keeping with the social and political circumstances in the US.

 The jokes and comments highlight the sense of fear and apprehension among the Punjabis, known for an almost visceral desire to go abroad, particularly to the US.The “phoren“ tag has been coveted by generations of Punjabis.
 
 A popular two and a half centuries old saying in Punjab, “Khaadha Peeta Lahe Da Baaki Ahmad Shahe da“ (Yours is whatever you have eaten and drunk, rest is of Ahmad Shah), which highlighted the turbulence of Afghanistan founder Ahmad Shah Abdali's raids in India, particularly Punjab, has been given a contemporary twist. The saying, “Khaadha Peeta Lahe da, Baaki Trump Shahe Da,“ inspired the saying, “Punjab ton Gurr mangvauna see, lagda nahin aunda Trump karke,“ “Wanted to get (here) some gur (jaggery) from Punjab but now it does not seem possible due to Trump,“ by USbased Narinder Singh Akali.
 
 In another satirical comment, he said it now appeared impossible that new Punjabis would arrive in the US anytime soon.Narinder has also been posting messages making people aware of stringent measures. According to him, the foremost subject of discussion for a group of Punjabis is “chappa“ or raids. They even used the Trump analogy for something as mundane as clear ing their Facebook friend lists.
 
 “Sache Patshah 35 Lakhiaan `chon koi naa kaabu aawe, tabbar ne jinde mar jaana“ (O God I pray none of those who paid Rs 35 lakh to agents to reach the US get caught. Their families would be left living dead) posted California-based Sandeep Chahal.The short post expressed pathos at the plight of those who paid hefty fees to reach the US illegally and the predicament of their families back home, many of whom raised loans to help their son reach foreign shores.
 
 Amrika aaun wale (via Mexico) zara dhiaan naal, paise naa fasaa lio bharaavo (those who want to come to America through Mexico, be careful, brothers don't get your money stuck) posted Jodhbir Singh, a US-based Punjabi netizen.
 
 While families back home are worried, they don't want to come on record for obvious reasons.“Even though many of them have not met their loved ones in a long time, they are worried about being deported and having to face uncertain times again,“ said Sukhdev Singh, a retired bank official living in Bhatnoooran Kalan village near Bholath, a belt known as home to scores of NRIs.
 
