MANGALURU:   is geared up to organize –   – a three-day festival encompassing all strata of Konkani speaking populace at Town Hall from February 10. The festival will also see the academy present its annual honorary and book awards at the valedictory function on February 13, an event for which the academy has invited CM Siddaramaiah to do the honours, said Ronald S A Castelino, academy president.

 Highlight of the event will be a group of 100 singers singing Konkani songs from various dialects at the inaugural function. The group is currently rehearsing the same at the Bishop’s House under the guidance and direction of Eric Ozario and Vasanthi R Nayak. The duo formally handed over scripts of the songs selected by them for the event to   at the Bishop’s House recently to signal their preparedness and readiness for the big day.
 
 Briefing reporters, Ronald said the ‘chappara muhurath’ for the event will be held at Town Hall, venue of the festival, on Wednesday. Nearly 50 stalls showcasing and selling ethnic Konkani food, and dress and other related items, as well as books will be set up. “We are showcasing Lokotsav as crown jewel of achievements of the academy during its current term,” he said, adding Lokotsav publicity committee has traversed 2,400 km and covered 56 towns/cities.
 
 While opening day of the event will be dedicated to children and women displaying their talents, day two will see youths from various Konkani speaking communities showcase their strengths. A rally comprising nearly 2,500 youths starting from   ground at Balmatta to the venue, will be the highlight of the day, he said adding the rally will also comprise of six tableaus that will showcase the rich diversity of Konkani language and its culture across geographies.
 
 The final day will see the governor of Nagaland Padmanabha B Acharya, minister for Kannada and culture Umashree and others take part. “We will be felicitating 44 achievers from Konkani speaking communities, women, children, youth and others at the valedictory function,” Ronald said. The academy is also in the process of getting statutory clearances for local law enforcement agencies for a promotional motorcycle rally either on February 7 or 8, he added.
 
