MANGALURU: It was a jittery Tuesday morning in  , with three incidents of stabbing being reported despite Section 144 being in place for the 46th day in five taluks of the district, barring  .

 But as the day progressed, it became clear that all three incidents were not communal in nature or related to the ongoing Bantwal violence.
 
 One person, caught in an illicit act and thrashed, tried to take advantage of the simmering situation to escape the shame, but police were shrewd enough to see through his tale.
 
 Aboobakkar Siddique, 30, a stone quarry worker and resident of Kuppepadavu, was caught with his lover on Monday evening, in Yedapadavu under Bajpe police station limits. Beaten up by his lover’s family and chased away, a bleeding Aboobakkar told a curious crowd swelling around him that two bike-borne unidentified miscreants had waylaid and assaulted him. The father of two also said the youths were from another community and it was communal attack. His elder brother who arrived to the spot too escalated the issue, a police officer said.
 
 Police, who took the incident seriously due to ongoing communal unrest in the district, began a thorough investigation. However, they were confused by contradictory statements made by the complainant. Aboobakkar, who was working at a stone quarry in Mijar, told police that the quarry truck driver had dropped him around 7pm in Yedapadavu. While walking to the bus stand, bike-borne miscreants attack him and fled the spot, he told police.
 
 However, when police questioned truck driver Jabbar, he said he had dropped Aboobakkar around 5.30pm near Moolarapatna in Kuppepadavu. 
 
 Investigation revealed that Aboobakkar had hopped off the truck and caught a  . He was in an illicit relationship with a migrant worker camping near Mucchur cross. Some people from her community learnt about this and chased Aboobakkar when he visited her on Monday evening, and let him off with a sound thrashing.
 
 “To cover this shame, he used the communal violence card and cooked up a story that he was assaulted by bike-borne miscreants,” the officer said, adding that there were doubts about his injury. Aboobakkar is being treated at a private hospital in Falnir and avoiding police inquiry, police said.
 
 Aboobakkar’s elder brother arrived and pressured police to book a case under IPC 324. However, he distanced himself from the investigation after learning the truth, police added.
 
 A source said the villagers and his family members, including his wife, were aware about his illicit relationship. A case was registered at Bajpe police station.
 
 
 
 
 In the second case, an LPG transport tempo driver was assaulted by unidentified miscreants and robbed of Rs 9,500 early morning in Uppinangady station limits.
 
 Though it was earlier termed a communal attack, district SP CH Sudheer Kumar Reddy confirmed it was a robbery. He told TOI the incident took place around 6am near Kadavinabagilu, Uppinangady. The victim was identified as Abdul Rehman, 38, a resident of Matha. After he left his house, an unidentified gang intercepted his tempo carrying LPG cylinders. The miscreants, who came in a Maruti Omni, suddenly approached Rehman when he reached Medarabettu. The four-member gang smashed the windshield of the tempo, dragged him out, snatched Rs 9,500 from him and fled the spot.
 
 Passersby who saw him crying for help, took him to a nearby private hospital, where he is being treated. Reddy added that they had started investigation. A case was registered at Uppinangady police station.
 
 The third incident is said to be a case of road rage where four miscreants in a car assaulted a tempo driver over an altercation on right of way at Mukkaccheri, Mastikatte Road, at 12.15pm Tuesday. Austin Monteiro, 40, a resident of Uliya, was hospitalized after he suffered a deep cut on one of his hands.
 
 The miscreants fled the spot and police are examining CCTV footage from nearby shops to trace the culprits. The fact that they had weapons on them spurred police to hasten investigation into the incident. Police suspect them to be goonda elements. Ullal police registered the case.
 
 
 
 The district administration extended prohibitory orders under Section 144 CrPC in the district, barring Mangaluru commissionerate and Mangaluru city, till July 21 midnight from July 11 midnight, a release from deputy commissioner KG Jagadeesha said.
 
 Prohibitory orders were clamped in Dakshina Kannada, initially in Bantwal and later extended to the entire district. In between, Mangaluru commissionerate was exempted after violence erupted in trouble-hit Kalladka town, near Bantwal in May last week. Tuesday was the 46th day of Section 144.
 
