NEW DELHI: Describing how people walk up to him when campaigning for his party, Swaraj India, Yogendra Yadav said voters now call the once-popular   a “monster”. Given its decline in popularity, he challenged the Aam Aadmi Party government to hold a recall vote to find out if the people of Delhi wanted it to continue in office should it fail to win at least half of the 272 seats in the coming municipal elections.

 “In the spirit of their Ramlila Maidan declarations that people should have the right to recall an elected representative (if they are not happy with his/her work), AAP should subject itself to a recall vote if it doesn’t win 137 seats,” declared Yadav on Wednesday.
 
 Describing the April 23 polls as a referendum on the AAP government’s performance, Yadav argued that even if the ruling party might not see it that way, the billboards put up by AAP proved the point. “When they ask ‘Who do you want to run MCD? Kejriwal or Vijender Gupta?’ on the billboards, they have officially accepted it,” he reasoned.
 
 After initial setbacks — Swaraj India did not get a common election symbol and the state election commission rejected the nominations of 24 candidates — the party president is now more optimistic about the party’s prospects. Yadav, however, did admit that his past association with AAP occasionally posed a problem. “Many people tell me, ‘You have created this monster’ (Kejriwal). They blame me for asking them to vote for him,” said Yadav. “People like me are to be blamed for not being able to see what they were up to…But we didn’t wait to enjoy the fruits of power. We left them when they were at the pinnacle of power.”
 
 He slammed AAP for its promise to waive property tax and wondered why, if the government genuinely believed this was feasible, it had not announced this as policy irrespective of which party came to power. “But it is just a sign of a desperate politician,” charged Yadav. “This is a negation of democratic politics. It is reducing democratic politics to an absurdity.”
 
 He did not spare BJP either. “The municipal corporations have been undisciplined. They didn’t generate much revenue and were corrupt about utilising the resources,” he alleged. 
 
 Swaraj India, he claimed, had a clearer plan for the civic bodies. “Corporations should be responsible for cleaning sewers, drains and overall sanitation, checking air pollution and maintaining parks and other facilities. It should not be responsible for running primary schools and big hospitals. They should be taken over by the state government,” said Yadav.
 
 
