Nagpur: The state government is seeking expertise of civil engineers for major construction projects that are to come up in the next three years, said Chandrakant Patil, Maharashtra minister for public works and revenue. The minister was speaking at an international seminar called ‘Innovations and aesthetics in design and construction for bridges and tunnels’ at a city hotel on Saturday.

 The seminar was jointly organized by Indian National Group of International Association for Bridges and Structural Engineering (ING-IABSE) and the state’s public works department. Engineers from all over India as well foreign countries exchanged knowledge during the seminar. Chairman of ING-IABSE DO Tawade was present.
 
 Giving examples of the Gateway of India and Bandra-Worli Sealink in Mumbai, the minister stressed the relevance of tasteful architecture in structures of public utility. “A person visiting India is first shown these two structures. It is built is such a way that vehicles can easily cross the sea and reach the other side while people can see it and take pleasure in its beauty,” said Patil.
 
 Patil said that his ministry has made a page-wise programme of various construction projects that are to come up which also includes Nagpur-Aurangabad-Mumbai Samruddhi Expressway which is awaiting completion. “The expressway is the first of its kind in Maharashtra which will cost Rs32,000 crore. Allocation of funds for other projects too has been arranged. But spending such a huge money will make no sense if we do not have proper expertise,” the minister added.
 
 “With the right people participating, development of the state as well as the country will be at par with international standards. The experiences shared in today’s programme will be beneficial to the government,” added Patil.
 
 The minister said that the time taken in construction of bridges needs to be accelerated and inconvenience to road users is reduced. “Last year, a bridge had collapsed in Mumbai, claiming 42 lives. The opposition parties were outraged and demanded action. We promised to re-build the bridge in 180 days, but completed the work in 165 days. Though the lives that were lost cannot be brought back, people appreciated the quickness of the government,” he said.
 
 Not only bridges should be built at a fast pace but efforts also be made that they last for a century, said Patil. “We talk about bridges and buildings built by the British which have lasted for over 100 years while the ones we construct collapse within 20 years. This should not be the case and we must now build structures which last at least for 150 years,” the minister said.
 
 
