NEW DELHI: As the India-China standoff in the   plateau enters the third week amid high-decibel criticism of New Delhi by official Chinese media, a glimpse into the Indian point of view will come on Tuesday, when foreign secretary S Jaishankar gives a lecture in Singapore. Jaishankar will address India-Asean ties, but it is expected that he will also speak on the current situation between India, Bhutan and China. So far, the foreign ministry's reaction has been encapsulated in a lengthy statement. 

  While sources here maintained that the five-minute meeting between PM Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping in Hamburg went "better than expected", the Chinese government refused to agree that a meeting took place at all. 
 
  The current border crisis started after Indian forces stopped the construction of a road by China in the Doklam region. Road construction is China's way of expanding territory. It has been doing so below Bhutan's claim line in the area for some time, brushing away protests by the tiny country. China is livid because India came to Bhutan's help and refused to allow its "mission creep" to continue further. 
 
  If allowed to continue uncontested, Chinese action would render the Siliguri corridor vulnerable, and have serious security implications for India. With this action, China has again upended an understanding between the special representatives. In 2005, India and China had agreed to a formulation on 'settled populations' in the guiding principles for a boundary settlement, but within a year, the Chinese envoy claimed all of Arunachal Pradesh, dismissing the agreement. Chinese officials have ruled out any talks with India until Indian troops "withdraw". Meanwhile, some comic confusion by the Chinese government is fast turning diplomacy on the boundary crisis into a circus. 
 
  In addition, the Chinese embassy in New Delhi informed through its WeChat account that the ambassador had met Congress member Rahul Gandhi. This was later deleted, leaving everyone wondering why, since Rahul also met Bhutanese ambassador V Namgyel separately, as well as former NSA Shivshankar Menon. 
 
