HYDERABAD: The city's dreams of emerging as a logistics hub seem to be inching closer to reality, with the first of the nearly dozen logistics parks planned in the city by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) all set to get off the ground.

 Municipal administration minister   will be laying the foundation stone for the logistic parks at Bata Singaram and Mangalpally on October 4. The parks will be developed under the public private partnership (PPP) mode.
 
 While the 40-acre Bata Singaram park in   mandal will be taken up at a cost of Rs 35 crore, the 22-acre Mangalpally park will come up at Ibrahimpatnam at a cost of Rs 20 crore. 
 
 Bata Singaram project has been awarded to   Projects, Mangalpally has been given to   Designs. “HMDA has finalised tenders and entered into agreements with developers. The parks will become operational within two years and all amenities such as dormitories will be completed in three years," HMDA metropolitan commissioner T Chiranjee vulu told TOI on Monday .
 
 The contractors will develop parks and pay annual lease fee to the development authority for 33 years apart from development fee. Annual lease fee will be increased by 5% yearly .
 
 Officials said that logistic parks will be one-stop facility for freight operators, third-par ty logistic service providers, cargo firms, truck drivers, warehousing and parking facilities keeping in view the rising demand for freight logistics and have been proposed in areas close to Outer Ring Road (ORR), especially for vehicles coming from other states. Currently , there are no dedicated logistics park for freight services providers in the city and there is only one makeshift logistics park at   on HMDA land.
 
 The HMDA commissioner said the parks are being taken up not just to relieve traffic congestion in the core city , but also provide employment. Once operational, heavy transport vehicles need not come into the city and traders can carry the material to their areas with the help of mini vehicles, he said.
 
  has directed officials to identify land for at least four more such parks in the city .
 
