
They may be dubbed "apples of love" (the French after all called them pomme d'amour and bestowed on them an aphrodisiac status) but the tomato's more fruitful use has been as a weapon of protest! In pre-lynching India, a worthy way of disagreeing, booing or showing intolerance was by chucking rotten tomatoes at opponents. 
 
 In Spain, this sort of street warfare was elevated to festive art when two gentlemen of Bunol, a nondescript Valencian town, started throwing tomatoes at people and places in 1945, in political protest. You needn't, of course, have gone to   at all to know about   - "the tomato fight". Even a not-so-close watching of the 2011 blockbuster Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara would fill you in.
 
 What happens, however, if you want to protest this juicy weapon of protest itself ? How do you raise your voice against the tamatar, whose price has shot through the roof in these last few days, and break, at the same time, the hegemony of generic onion-tomato masalas that Indian cuisines and curries have been drowning in?
 
 Peep into a restaurant kitchen doling out the kind of Punjabi khana synonymous with eating out in middle India and you'll know how important the tamatar really is. Chefs coming in on early shifts know they must ready the red gravy first - onion, tomato and garlic blitzed together, ready to be poured on to whatever you order, bhindi or prawns, it scarcely matters! Then, there's paneer makhni, dal makhni, chicken makhni, "Goan" fish curries, all manners of rogan josh, lal maans and even qorma; there's baigan bharta and dal tadka, rasam, Andhra-style pulusus and legit tomato rice... In the cornucopia that confronts us, the fruit is omnipresent.
 
 For households rationing their tomatoes because they now cost around Rs 100 per kg, it's time to ask if we re ally need them in our fridge (which is, by the way, the wrong way to store them)?
 
 After all, the ingredient is only about 160 years old in the long culinary history of the subcontinent. Despite its overwhelming popularity (India is its third largest producer), the tomato is hardly intrinsic to Indian regional cuisines which have always relied on a wider variety of souring agents.
 
 Like other products of the Colombian Exchange, the tomato came to India from its native South America via Europe at an uncertain date. Food historian K T Achaya pegs this as around 1850. In 1880, Achaya says, tomatoes were being grown chiefly for the European population but some Indians - "Bengalis and Burmans" included -had begun to use them to sour their curries.Other accounts suggest that the tomato may have been introduced into India earlier but it was only in the 19th and 20th centuries that it started flourishing, with the British promoting commercial farming. 
 
 (Before that, till 1850, there was relatively low population growth, more land available for farming but warfare in the twilight years of the   meant that farmers would just up and leave the land rather than continue as tenants for generations.) If you have wondered at the disdain shown by any true-blue cook of   food towards tamatar, the New World pretender, you now know why. Yoghurt remains the souring agent of choice for this genre of cooking based on techniques, tastes and ingredients influenced by the gastronomic traditions of central Asian, Per traditions of central Asian, Persian and Indian kitchens. 
 
 The tomato thus has no place in the cooking of old Delhi, Lucknow or Hyderabad (even though Andhra Pradesh is the top producer of the crop in India and Andhra food incorporates it generously).
 
 No self-respecting qorma, for one, should be cooked with tamatar. But then neither should that valiant Rajput spesh, Lal Maans, nor the heart and bonewarming rogan josh from Kashmir. All these fabulous slow-cooked meat curries (different from each other because of a change in spicing as we travel from one region to the other) that define the idea of Indian gastronomy refrain from relying on the tomato, never mind its umami.
 
 Yoghurt was the souring agent of choice for Mughal-inspired cuisines, but regional cuisines across the subcontinent have had many different souring agents to play around with. These range from unripe mango and dried mango powder (amchoor) to kachri (a berry that grows wild in UP and Rajasthan), tamarind, kokum, lime and much else.
 
 Dals, vegetables, fish and meat curries were flavoured with these, giving each dish a unique flavour. When cheaper and more easily available tomato made inroads into our kitchens replacing some of these souring agents, some of this diversity too was sacrificed. Now, in the next few days, as we plan to make sacrifices and go tomato-less, it may be an opportunity to go back to some of these other interesting, sour, regional flavours.
 
