NAGPUR: Contrary to the popular belief today that parents should be friends with their children, child psychologist   says that it is not the right approach to a good parent-child relationship.

  She was speaking during a workshop conducted by Learning Pitara, held at MT Paithankar Hall, Indian Medical Association, North  , on Saturday. Jain was the key note speaker and the topic was ‘What is your parenting style?’
 
  “I have seen many times parents saying ‘we are a friend to our child’. But children can make friends outside. At home, children need parents, grown-ups, who can guide them and make them realize their mistakes and discipline them,” Jain said. 
 
 The workshop was an interactive one in which parents put their queries to the psychologist regarding their children’s behaviour. 
 
 “After the age of seven signs of rebellion are seen in children. The reason the increased energy of their brain, which makes. Extra energy in the body results in negative behaviour,” she said. 
 
 There are three types of causes behind the behavioural changes in the children — psychological, environmental and physiological, she added. 
 
 “Repetition or nagging are poison for the child, it puts your child on the rebel mode, so stop nagging them,” advised Jain. She also said, “Sanskrit shlokas, yoga and mythological stories can help calm a child, and also help them to understand the moral values, right behaviour and get rid of bad values like selfishness, and help them in spiritual and intellectual development, without it looking like we are giving them lessons.” 
 
 Another thing that Jain said was parents should not blame other children for their child’s mistakes as it sends a wrong message. “Over protection and blind love can spoil a child,” she said. 
 
 A questioner was also provided to the parents for introspection. “It was a very informative lecture. I have two sons. Though my older son is now a bit grown up, I will use the lessons I have learnt here while dealing with my younger son,” said Ashwini Kukde, one of the parents at the workshop. 
 
 
