Change is the only constant in the life of an artist. And when she happens to be young and effervescent, the urge to find new forms of expression to communicate her inner joy becomes impossible to contain. The result, in   Jain’s case, is her collection of mindful mementos. 

  As any seeker will tell you – whether spiritual or material – finding the right thing is never easy. Something that speaks to you, reflects your feelings, supports your beliefs. Trishla also went through that same dilemma and decided to put her artistic mind to work to find a solution. 
 
  While her artworks have always stood out for their unique blend of painting and poetry, Trishla’s persona too melds deep spirituality with irrepressible joy. And that joy is what has now found expression though artistic objects that actually "speak" to their lucky possessors.
 
  Art is not merely a canvas, a sculpture or an installation. Those designer bags and diamond rings are also expressions of artistic impulses. But Trishla’s mementos are mindful, and speak more personally – from a young artist-and-seeker to her kindred spirits. 
 
  For her embellished art, home decor and personal accessories, she has selected particularly evocative segments of her paintings and given them a new avatar. And in doing so, as an artist, she has also paid homage to the hand work of traditional Indian craftspeople. 
 
  A tea cup motif, perhaps, or a typically Trishla verselet – after all words are her metier as much as paint – is picked out and enhanced to grace a new canvas or a cushion or a scarf. Colours jump out, beads have you in stitches, designs sing – each composition is her ode to joy. 
 
  Trishla’s boundless gratitude for what life has given her radiates from her creations. It is almost impossible not to want to treasure it or spread the joy by giving it to someone. Each piece is infused with her optimism, her desire to thank joy every waking and sleeping moment. 
 
  After debuting her collection in New York late last year, Trishla has now brought her brand of joyful artwork and keepsakes to India, first to the city she grew up in, New Delhi. Don’t miss your chance to take a bit of joy home.
 
   , with a vision to promote talent, brings the best of art décor through Trishla Jain; who presents her mindful home accents and tapestries through an art décor exhibit.
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
