NASHIK: Disgruntled farmers staged demonstrations across district on Saturday in protest against the state government's decision to acquire land for the proposed Nagpur-Mumbai super communication expressway, also known as Samruddhi Mahamarg. 

 The protests were held in the wake of the district administration's announcement on Friday regarding the compensation package to be offered to farmers whose land would be acquired for the mega project. 
 
 In some places like Igatpuri and Sinnar, farmers burnt copies of the rates made public by the Nashik administration. Some farmers staged a demonstration in front of the district collectorate though it was closed for the day . 
 
 The farmers have warned that they would intensify their agitation, under the guidance of Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana leader Raju Shetty, to prevent any acquisition of land 
 
 "The farmers will not fall in any kind of trap. Our fight is for the land and not for the rates. This is the only source of bread and butter for the farmers and, hence, the state government must scrap the project," demanded Raju Desle of  , who is heading the  .
 
 "Apart from Raju Shetty, we have invited social activist Medha Patkar and   to discuss farmers' issues on Monday. They will decide on the future course of action of the agitation," Desle said. 
 
 A farmer from Shivde village,  , alleged that the state government was taking the farmers for a ride. "We have decided not to give land to anybody and we will fight tooth and nail to save our land. We can even commit suicide to protect our land," warned Harak. 
 
 In Shivde village in Sinnar taluka, the government machinery is facing severe resistance from locals to part with the land. Apart from farmers in Shivde village, villagers from Sonambe, Konambe, Ghorwad, Savtamalinagar, Pandhurli and several others in Sinnar and Igatpuri taluka staged demonstration against land acquisition in front of the district collectorate. 
 
 The protesting farmers shouted slogans against the chief minister and the state government and burnt printed copies of the compensation rates. 
 
