PATNA: Anwesha 2017, the three-day annual techno-cultural festival of IIT-Patna, began on Friday with 1,500 students forming a symbol of Indian rupee in support of demonetisation. Later, the students also participated in audition for singing, dance, street-play and other performances, which would be held over the next two days. The cultural programmes in the evening included performances by Sufi singer Ranjana Jha, beat boxer Vineet Vincent and mentalist Topobrata Chakraborty. The most-enjoyed event in the evening was a pulsating music show by DJ Tejas. Two rock bands – Agni and Parikrama – would perform for three hours on the concluding evening (Sunday).

 NIT-P fest concludes: Curtains fell on the six-day techno cultural fest of NIT-Patna with a band night performance here on Friday. Revolution 21, a band from Delhi, enthralled the students with performance of popular Bollywood number on Friday. The college band, Revolstar, also performed on the last day of the function. DJ Saugat from Bangalore had come for the first time in Patna to perform in the NIT fest. Miss Eve pageant was won by Surbhi Kumari, a first year student of architecture. Mr Eve was won by Mohit Nautiyal, a computer science student. Mr NIT was won by Mohit Nautiyal and Shrija won Miss NIT title. Piyush Kumar Sahu, Abhijeet Xaxa and Arpit Agarwal won the first prize in Robotics. Sumit Kumar and Shruti won the first prize in the apparel design. Main design was won by E Reshmy and Esha S Bhatnagar, a final year student of architecture.
 
 International School: Republic Day was celebrated with much fervour at International School on Thursday. The celebration began with flag hoisting by the principal Farhat Hasan and principal (CBSE) Anwar Mallick. Following the national anthem, students participated in an array of events including double drill, pom- pom PT display and patriotic dance and songs. 
 
 School fete: Students of Ishan International School had a gala time at grand fete organised on the school premises on Thursday. The fete was inaugurated by Birendra Kumar, general manager of Bank of Baroda, followed by inauguration of school magazine ‘Ishan: A blend of creativity’. Students savoured a number of delicacies at the food stalls. Prize winning games, such as shoot the darts, brain teasers and housie kept the students as well as parents enchanted. 
 
 
