BHOPAL: After samples of milk were found adulterated with water, the   (FDA) is set to crack down on  . The crackdown is expected to come any time in the wake of a complaint by Betul resident after he found suspicious plastic material in his egg.

 According to MP FDA officials, samples from suspected chemical-laced artificial eggs were sent for chemical testing. A full report is expected this month. “It is illegal to sell artificial eggs. The supply was from a Hyderabad-based company. It is suspected that excessive production led to their foray in   market,” said an FDA official.
 
 FDA officials admit they are unaware of the process and have turned to internet and YouTube channels to verify the process. One official said he found a process in which fake egg white is made by mixing sodium alginate to warm water and then adding gelatin and alum. Later, the video demonstrated to add benzoic acid to the end product. Benzoic acid is a preservative.
 
 For the moment, FDA officials are in the dark about such eggs in the market. Reports of such eggs being marketed have been traced to   and some parts in Delhi. “These eggs are being sold Rs 20 to Rs 30 cheaper than normal eggs. We are advising people to report any instance of this nature,” he said.
 
 FDA is also likely to crackdown on use of excessive chemicals in vegetables. In 2015, the FDA came down hard on vegetable producers near Arera Colony for using sewage water for cultivation. Traces of highly toxic chemicals were found.
 
 On Friday, FDA carried out milk sampling surveillance in Bairagarh sector. Around 20% of the samples were found adulterated with water. It came after Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), an autonomous body established under the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) provided inspector with milk scanning devices. The devices sent to all FDA units across the country trace adulteration and level of fat in milk.
 
 Samples collected by the FDA were labelled as surveillance. Hence the report does not make retailers prosecutable. Under the FSSAI Act, only legal samples can lead to penalty or imprisonment to the supplier. Going by FDA estimates, two in every three samples collected by its inspectors to determine food safety of product are not be liable for legal prosecution. Two-thirds of these sample which are also tested, are dubbed as ‘surveillance’ samples.
 
 Critics allege that   lowered its guard against food adulterators. As per an order of the FDA last year, each food safety officer (FSO) in a district has to collect 8 legal samples a month. The figure is lower in some instances.
 
 FDA officials clarified that two legal samples (from over 20 tested) from milk suppliers have been for laboratory investigations. A report would take another 14 days.
 
 At a time when food safety is becoming a household concern, Madhya Pradesh Food and Drugs Administration (MPFDA) lowered its guard. A new food sample collection policy aims at ‘avoiding harassment of retailers/producers’ and ‘follows standards as in developed countries’ according to MPFDA official. “We want to give offenders a chance to reform,” said an FDA official.
 
 
