KOCHI: Over 326 persons were held for drunken driving on New Year's eve as police tightened measures to avoid untoward incidents.   topped the chart arresting 36 people at night, while only two such cases were reported from Fort Kochi. Commissioner M P Dinesh said that the force was given strict directives to curb drunken driving incidents. “Our force was on the field and traffic offenders were picked up from noon itself. Law and order prevailed because officers were alert,“ said the commissioner.
 
 Palarivattom police arrested 21 persons for the same offence while Kalamasserry personnel managed to arrest 18 traffic offenders. Kadavanthra police arrested 17 offenders while the number of accused arrested in the heart of the city by central police stood at eight.
 
 Traffic (west) assistant commissioner Nazeer MA said that the offenders will have to pay the fine and their licences are liable to be suspended by MVD following a report filed by the police.
 
 “The offender will have to pay a fine as per the directive of the judge. The amount is usually above Rs 2,500 and the suspension of licence will depend on the grievousness of the offence,“ he said. A rough estimate suggested that the new-year celebrants in the city will add at least Rs7, 75, 000 to the state exchequer.
 
 Meanwhile, traffic crawled in the city as thousands flocked to Fort Kochi and many partygoers were stuck in traffic with   adding to the already intense rush.
 
 “Traffic regulation by police authorities are common every year, however they closed down the Mattancherry BOT Bridge this year. The closure of the main entry added to the chaos," said M P Sivadathan, director of   and  .
 
 Many passenger were stuck on roads as KSRTC buses towards Cherthala and Alappuzha crawled. Traffic to Fort Kochi, Mattancherry , Thoppumpady , Palluruthy , Kumbalanghi and Edakochi from Ernakulam moved at snail's pace as many were stranded on the streets.
 
 Meanwhile, top traffic officers maintained that the traffic regulations were planned ahead. "The blocking of the BOT bridge was unavoidable. West Kochi was completely flooded with vehicles and partygoers and letting more vehicles in was not possible. The measure was only to ensure public safety ," said the officer.
 
 The traffic congestion at the BOT Bridge resulted in a long queue of vehicles from Thevara Junction. Over 100 police jeeps and 200 police motorcycles were pressed into service to strengthen mobile patrolling.
 
 
