KOCHI: As the   gets ready to begin its operation from Aluva to Palarivattom by March, authorities are busy completing the work on metro stations. Stations like Kalamassery and Cusat are fast nearing completion and the   (KMRL) have started working on the interiors and exteriors of the building.

 The metro agency is keen on depicting rich cultural heritage of the state at metro stations. “Main stations like Aluva, Kalamassery, Cusat, Edappally, Changampuzha Park and Jawahar Lal Nehru stadium have specific themes,“ said the KMRL spokesperson, adding that other stations (non-theme stations) would have its interiors centred on specific elements of Western Ghats.
 
 According to KMRL, Aluva ­ the first station on Kochi Metro's track will centre on the theme ri ver Periyar. The river is known as the lifeline of Kerala, and its socioeconomic and cultural significance will be portrayed on the walls of the station. The Western Ghats will be the central theme of Kalamassery station. The station's interiors will be adorned with wall papers and pictures of the flora and fauna found in the Ghats.Hornbills and herds of elephants will find a place on the stations walls.
 
 The Cusat station, located near the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) will feature important landmarks in  . At Edappally station it's all about rich and exotic spices and the ancient traders who followed the spice route. The walls of the station will depict spices which made the state famous.
 
 Taking into account the cultural significance of Changampuzha park, the metro station will have a unique theme detailing the artistic and cultural heritage of Kerala. “We are in the process of bringing in artists for painting murals on one wall of the station.Words of the Malayalam poet Changampuzha will be written on another wall. Various dance forms and other cultural symbols will also find a place here,“ said the KMRL spokesperson.
 
 The station located near the   international stadium will display Kerala's rich sports heritage.
 
 KMRL said a there would be a small description of all elements included as part of the interior exterior designs.
 
