PUNE: The deadlock over cashless medical services continues with no solution in sight. It has been nearly a month now that almost all major hospitals in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad have stopped rendering cashless service.

 The association of hospitals has alleged that despite several requests, public sector insurance companies have not held any dialogue with them.
 
 “Nothing has happened in the past three weeks. We are ready to discuss the issue but insurance companies are not taking any initiative in finding a breakthrough to the current impasse over cashless treatment. Patients are currently paying for the treatment and later claiming reimbursement from their insurance companies,” said Bomi Bhote, CEO, Ruby Hall Clinic. Bhote is also the president of the association of hospitals in Pune, a body of 65 major, medium and small hospitals.
 
 The current stalemate is over the rates of 64 surgical procedures. “The rates offered by the insurance companies to hospitals for these procedures are ridiculously low. They do not even cover the fees of consultants and surgeons let alone the hospital bill, which is completely unacceptable,” Bhote said
 
 Public sector insurance companies, including New India Assurance Company, United India Insurance Company, Oriental Insurance Company and National Insurance Company, under the banner of   (GIPSA), recently issued a list of hospitals in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad offering cashless facility. However, barring a handful of major hospitals, the list mainly comprises medium and small hospitals. 
 
 Orthopaedic surgeon Nitin Bhagli said, “They (public sector insurance companies) have created a monopoly of big and corporate hospitals by including them in preferred provider network whose bills (and hence the outgo for settlement of claims) are more than smaller hospitals which are kept outside the network for reasons best known to GIPSA companies. They have ignored the basic rule of economics that competition by including as many hospitals can cut down the costs.”
 
 Paediatrician and health informatics expert   alleged that the insurance companies were cheating patients. “They (the companies) take 3% extra amount and direct patients to selected hospitals under preferred provider network. Hospitals do not join the network because they cannot afford the rates offered by the companies,” said Joshi.
 
 “Insurance companies are cutting costs by removing doctor processing claim, appointing third party agencies and, more importantly, by offering extremely low rates to hospitals. Patients should pay the hospitals and get reimbursement from insurance companies and take treatment from doctor of their choice,” he said.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, GIPSA officials could not be contacted for their comments.
 
