Hyderabad-based artist   Bhupal’s life-size installation exhibited at the Kochi   has been grabbing eyeballs for its unusual theme – the inside of a bathroom and toilet. 

 A look at the bathroom that has been crafted to perfection will leave one in awe at her talent and finesse, in converting scraps into the raw materials, making for around 3,500 building blocks of a restroom. Along with the installation, diasec prints of the interior view of an airplane, supermarket, bookstore and a scene from the waiting room of a clinic also capture her view of the world at the venue.
 The artist is more than happy to be part of the art extravaganza in Kerala, and says that she thoroughly enjoyed experiencing the biennale, curated by Sudarshan Shetty. She says, “There are multiple interesting dialogues amongst the works; some simple and others, more complex. It has been a platform for people to engage with visual intelligence.”
 
 Dia says that as an artist, she always works with the constructed image; essentially through the photographs she takes. She throws light on the spectacle that her artwork is at the biennale, and gives a gist about how inspiring the whole making process was. She adds, “Each block was sourced from scrap magazines, cut into a strip and twirled individually, after which a roll is crafted to create a structure with stability.”
 While one wonders how laborious a process it might have been to make the immense work, Dia brushes it off, saying that making it was very calming and meditative. Making such artworks, she says, disassociates her from the virtual world of gadgets, the internet, and the frivolous routine of every day. 
 Dia echoes the saying, it is the journey that matters more than the destination, when she tells us, “The process allows me to keep discovering and learning on a day-to-day basis. The intensity and meticulous nature of the process itself takes me to a deeper meditative realm, thereby keeping my mind engaged and alert, yet relaxed.”
 
 So, what is it that keeps her constantly inspired? She finds beauty in the mundane, she says. Dia concludes, “There are several ideas behind my work, but all of them centre on my interest in private experiences and in everyday public spaces. My work refers to the kind of perceptual gap between how we see our lives and how we live them.”
 
 
