We had recently reported that some hostel inmates of Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology had demanded in-time   beyond 9pm and facility of night   during the examinations. The director of  ,  , has come forward to solve the dilemma of the girls, provided they follow the rules...

 
 
 Dr Chaudhari says that the committee has rejected the girls’ demand pertaining to the extension of hostel in-time. He adds, “I have checked with similar institutions and everywhere the hostel in-time is between 8pm and 9pm. So, we are not doing anything unusual here. Girls can’t stay out after 9pm without permission. There is already a system in place, wherein girls need to take prior permission in case they wish to stay out beyond 9pm. But permanent extension of in-time is not possible. These are the rules that have to be followed.”
 
 
 Even parents are happy with the stipulation, shares the director and adds, “We have received positive comments from the girls’ parents on this matter. They want us to have such strict measures. The rule is made keeping in mind the security of the girls. If any untoward incident happens, who will be held responsible? We will be questioned from all quarters, hence this rule can’t be changed.”
 
 
 
 The main reason why girls demanded in-extension was to access library after 9pm. On this, Dr Chaudhari says, “They can access library post 9pm and study there. But, they need to have a proper permission for that. And once they enter the library, they have to be inside the library only; they can’t step outside the college premises in-between or head anywhere else. The system of verification from the librarian can be adopted in such cases.”
 
 
 
 Hostel girls also expressed their displeasure over the unavailibility of a night canteen within the hostel premises. Director, however, reveals some interesting details on this issue and adds, “Main girls’ hostel has the night canteen facility, where food is served till 1.30 am. But there are a few girls whose makeshift boarding arrangement has been made at the boys’ hostel and they have some problems. Because of security issues, we can’t allow them to eat in the boys’ canteen. A temporary arrangement for snacks in the night was earlier made by the warden, but due to poor response, he refused to supply food, late night. I understand a night canteen is necessary when students stay up late for revisions ahead of their examinations. A night canteen can be made available to the girls, on a condition. They have to spend at least that much so that vendor can make some profit. And this will be a temporary arrangement made only for the examinations.”
 
 
 
