GURUGRAM: School bus conductor   (42), arrested for allegedly killing   student Pradhyumn Thakur last week, was tortured mercilessly by police, forcing him to confess to a crime he did not commit, his defence lawyer   claimed on Friday.

 “Ashok was tortured, beaten with sticks and forced to confess. He did not murder Pradhyumn, but cops and school made him a scapegoat in this case,” said Verma after meeting Kumar in   jail.
 
 Ashok, who was picked up hours after the murder of the Class 2 boy in the ground-floor washroom of the school on September 8, has been sent to judicial custody till September 18 by a Sohna court, with the police claiming to have strong evidence to prove his crime.
 
 Speaking to TOI, the lawyer further alleged Ashok’s thumbprint was taken on a piece of blank paper, which was later used by cops as his confession. “Police told Ashok they had already arrested the actual killer and that he would be booked for a smaller crime and released within a couple of days. Then he was given two injections and drugged. In this state, he was made to give thumb impressions on blank paper,” Verma claimed. “He got to know about the charges of sodomy and murder against him only after reaching prison,” the lawyer added.
 
 On Thursday, gardener Harpal, who worked at   Bhondsi, had also alleged he was slapped, beaten with sticks and his head dunked in water by police to force a confession out of him. Earlier, driver Saurav Raghav, in whose bus Ashok was the conductor, had accused the cops of putting mental pressure on him to force him to admit he was an accomplice in the crime. Harpal and Raghav were among those who were detained after Pradhyumn’s murder last Friday.
 
 Verma said, “Principal Neerja Batra (now suspended) had called Ashok and asked him to pick up the bleeding child. That is how his shirt got the bloodstains. But cops used that shirt as evidence to frame him.”
 
 Ashok’s father Amir Chand, who visited Bhondsi jail on Friday morning, said his son had been tortured. “Two policemen carried him to the meeting area. He was clearly limping,” Amir Chand said. “It was out of fear about the safety of his family that Ashok gave a confession. But now, he plans to tell everything in front of the judge.”
 
 Gurgaon police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar rubbished the claims “We categorically deny such allegations. We duly followed procedure. The family was intimated right at the beginning. The accused confessed to the crime and was produced in court too. He knew he had been booked for murder,” Khirwar said.
 
 
