BURDWAN: Simmering tension over an   near a school snowballed into unrestrained   on Saturday morning with angry locals - mostly tribals - attacking the Ausgram police station and adjoining barracks, assaulting cops and setting on fire seven police vehicles. At least four policemen and two civic volunteers were injured. Such was the panic among the cops that the duty officer openly sobbed before television cameras while recounting the ordeal.

 Late at night, Trinamool councillor of Guskara municipality, Chanchal Garai, was arrested in connection with the violence. The vandalism comes a day after CM   pledged zero-tolerance for such incidents, announcing the state's intent to penalise rioteers to compensate for such losses. CM Mamata Banerjee directed cops to find those behind the attack on Ausgram police station.
 
 “I have asked the police and the local administration to find out those involved in the attack on Ausgram police station,“ Banerjee told reporters after reviewing the situation at a top-level meeting at the state secretariat. Replying to a question about the probable attackers, the CM said, “You must be knowing about those who were behind the incident,“ report agencies.
 
 Trouble in Ausgram started when allegations surfaced that a local civic volunteer had started constructing a shop on government land at the Ausgram Uchchavidyalay gates.The president of the school managing committee, Chandranath Banerjee, submitted a complaint to the BDO. After pleas to police fell on deaf ears, the teachers and students on Friday went to the police station to protest. During the heated exchange, inspector in charge Imtiaz Khan allegedly hit Banerjee, making him bleed. Police, however, claimed the IC was himself injured when attacked by “outsiders“.Two persons were detained, but by then, word spread that 10 students were hurt in the stand-off with cops.
 
 Nearly 200 students and teachers hit roads in protest, demanding Khan be removed, the detained teachers released and the illegal construction pulled down. Late in the evening, the state gave Khan his marching orders. “The problem had been contained on Friday. CPM leaders fanned the issue further,“ alleged Anubrata Mondal, Trinamool's Burdwan in charge.
 
 CPM legislative party leader Sujan Chakraborty alleged the incident was a fallout of  .
 
 On Saturday, protesters laid seize on the police station.They pelted bricks and damaged the police vehicles. Heavily outnumbered, cops ran for cover. The mob ransacked the police station and set it on fire.
 
 It took some time for additional SP (HQ) Dyutiman Bhattacharya to lead a large police force, including RAF , to chase the protesters. The police then started raids to identify the attackers. Ten persons were arrested. Burdwan SP Kunal Agarwal said, “The allegation (of illegal encroachment) will be probed. But those responsible for damaging government property will be arrested.“
 
