KOLKATA: The airbags in the   that crashed on   early on Saturday did not deploy on impact. But the clue to what saved actor   at the wheel but killed   in the co-driver’s seat may lie in the seat belts. While the driver   was still strapped in position when the car was towed to Tollygunge police station later in the day, the seat belt on the co-passenger side was not, hinting at the possibility that Sonika did not have the seat belt on. 

 Automotive safety experts felt both should have survived the crash had they been wearing seat belts. “Whether the airbags deployed or not, if the passenger was not strapped to the seat, that is what turned fatal,” an expert said. There was no visible sign of any damage to the interior of the car.
 
 There are three ‘collisions’ that occur in every crash where occupants are unrestrained. The first collision involves the vehicle and another object on the street or pavement. The second occurs between the unbelted occupant and the vehicle interior, like the head hitting the window. The third collision occurs when the internal organs of the body hit against the chest wall or the skeletal structure. The second collision is most responsible for injuries and can be reduced significantly by the use of seat belts. Even after being strapped, one may sustain whiplash injuries to the neck but the person may live to see another dawn.
 
 According to WHO studies, a seat belt reduces the risk of fatal injury by 50% for front seat occupants. According to Maruti officials, seat belts can prevent 80% of fatalities with airbags making a difference in 10% cases.
 
 A survey in Kolkata had shows than only one in four motorists wear the seat belt while only one in 25 co-passenger does so. Sonika perhaps did not. “I have seen many strap the seat belt into the buckle behind their back to stop the beep. If they met with an accident, there is every likelihood of the passengers getting killed from the secondary impact,” said Topsel Toyota chief executive officer Deepak Gupta.
 
 KK Gandhi, executive director (technical) at the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (Siam), said the importance of seat belt continued to be undermined despite ample evidence that it is a life saver. “There are instances in which the airbag’s deployment has caused death as the passenger was not wearing seat belt,” he said.
 
 But why did the airbags not deploy in a car that has a sticker price of Rs 14-19 lakh. Gandhi explains India’s car safety norms did not require airbag deployment from offset crash till this month beginning. From the tyre skid marks and condition of the wreck, it was evident that the impact was at an angle and not head on. The car had swerved; one front wheel hit the kerb, then a brick-mortar block on the pavement before rolling over. 
 
 “In models introduced before April 1, 2017, the requirement for airbag deployment was frontal crash. But when the crash is angular, the sensors don’t get activated and the airbag does not get deployed. That has changed in newly launched models from April 1, 2017 and will be in force in all new cars from April 1, 2019,” he said.
 
 
