HYDERABAD: On the  , commuters had to wait for long hours or burn a   to   or anywhere in the city . With the drivers' strike entering third day on January 2, residents were left fuming due to unavailability of cabs for most part of the day ,   and jacked-up auto fares.

 P Ashok, for instance, had to wait for 45 minutes to book a cab from his home in Uppal to his place of work -Cyber Towers in Hi-Tec City . He eventually paid an additional `700 for the ride.
 
 “I had no clue that Ola and Uber drivers are on strike. In the morning when I logged on to an app, I was shocked to see there were no cabs available.In another app, surge charges were too high. Left with no option, I had to shell out `920 instead of the regular `250 to get to my workplace,“ said a passenger Ashok.
 
 Like him, there were scores of others who were pushed into a crisis. If some among them lost out on a day's salary -they were forced to stay back -others had to face the wrath of superiors for walking in late to office. “We are allowed to reach late only on two days every month. On the second day of the year, I was compelled to exhaust one of them,“ said K Rupendra, a corporate executive who finally had to hitch a hike with a friend on his motorbike to get to work.
 
 Not just the working class, even visitors to the city or those returning home after a year-end break, were left severely inconvenienced. “We went to Shirdi for the weekend and returned to the city on Saturday . We were stuck at   railway station for over 20 minutes try ing to bargain with auto-drivers. With no cabs around, they were demanding `150 for a distance of less than five km. Eventually , we took a bus to Musheerabad,“ said passenger V Uma.
 
 Police, meanwhile, took 25 drivers into custody for stopping taxis in various parts of the city and creating unrest on the roads. They were released later in the evening, with a warning. “After people complained about halting taxis, police took our people into custody at LB Nagar, Uppal, and Kukatpally . But as there is still no response from cab aggregators on Tuesday , we will announce an extension of the strike and will not budge from our demands,“ said V Siva, president of the Telangana Cab Drivers and Owners' Association.
 
 An Uber official said, “We condemn forceful disruption of services in Hyderabad by a small group of people, who have threatened drivers and damaged vehicles, inconveniencing riders and preventing people from earning a livelihood. We remain committed to serving the city, and call upon authorities to ensure the safety and continued operation of our services so that we can keep Hyderabad moving.“
 
