MOUNT ABU: The   has been pressed into service to douse the forest fire that has been raging for the last four days near Mount Abu. 

 The fire broke out at nearly 10 different points in and Aravali jungles beginning in the south-east area towards Sirohi. Since morning fire broke out in a large arc in Mount Abu itself very near to human habitat, from Anadara point to Honeymoon Point, Craig Point, embracing in its flames Sunset Point area. The stormy winds only flared up the blaze forcing the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Suresh Kumar Ola seeking help of helicopter fire tender from the chief minister office at Jaipur. The forest department officials led by district forest officer (DFO) KG Srivastava have been trying to battle the blaze. 
 
 This is probably the first time that a chopper has been used to put off forest fire in Abu. 
  
  
 
 In an official statement, IAF spokesman said that the   (SWAC), Gandhinagar, received a call from the Rajasthan government at 12:30 pm on Friday seeking help to douse a massive forest fire in the hills around Mount Abu. Due to strong winds, the fire was progressing fast towards the inhabited areas. 
 
 “Already on alert and standing by with modified MI-17V5 helicopters with Bambi Bucket, the helicopter unit at Phalodi (Rajasthan) swung into action with the first helicopter reaching the site by 2:20 pm,” the spokesman said.
 
 “A quick aerial recce was carried out and the operation got underway. Nakki lake in the midst of Mt Abu town, nestled between a hills was identified as the most viable source of water. Braving the altitude and skillful maneuvering through the terrain around Nakki Lake, the   managed to push in seven sorties dropping close to about 20,000 litres of water over the spread of fire most dangerously close to inhabited area,” the spokesman said.
 
 An additional IAF MI-17V5 chopper from Jamnagar would assist the operation on Saturday. Meanwhile, the IAF has directed the state administration to provide aircraft refuelling facilities at the location in order to save time during operations on Saturday.
 
 While forest fires are not uncomman in Aravalli forest, is a rude wakeup call for all concerned to immediately get the buffer zone sans any delay. The buffer zone is being vehementaly protested by the a group of people with vested interests including some builders who enjoy political patronage. 
 
 
