The nine months of   can be an excruciatingly stressful for women, especially if they are expecting their first child. Since they are faced with different emotions — from being excited about becoming a mother to anxious about bringing the child into the world without any mishaps and surviving mood swings — it can take a toll on the health. So, de-stressing is one of the important aspects that gynaecologists stress on while counselling them. While reading books and listening to   are the most common activities that mums-to-be resort to, we give you other interesting and doable options…

 
 
 If you are a working woman who also manages the house efficiently, then finding time for yourself will be difficult. So, every minute is precious for you. “You must stop thinking that putting your feet up and doing nothing is a criminal waste of time. You need to rest both your body and mind. Stop stressing over deadlines and unwashed dishes in the kitchen,” says Dr Vandana Mehra, a gynaecologist.
 
 
 
 Yes, you read that right. One of the best ways to   is to release the pent up tension in the body through physical exercises. Yoga trainer Jothi M says, “Of course, when your body’s aching and you’re overtly tired, exercise might be the last thing on your mind. So, walking on the treadmill and lifting weights is not going to appeal to you. However, gentle exercises can boost your stamina and also help you relax. Maternity yoga, swimming and breathing exercises help you keep calm. What’s more, they will also make labour pain endurable.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Getting fresh air and enjoying the early rays of sun are great stress busters. If you are one of those who spends most of the day cooped in your home or at work and hardly get time to take in the sights and sounds of the neighbourhood, now is your time. Take a stroll in the garden or walk along the shoreline. You will be surprised how refreshed and rejuvenated you feel. 
 
 
 
 If this is your first child, chances are, you will have a zillion questions about pregnancy. Sharing your concerns with your gynaecologist, mother, husband or best friend will make you less anxious. You can also attend counselling sessions, join support groups or attend pep talks to sort yourself out.
 
 
 
 There’s no doubt that a good spa session will leave you relaxed. When you are expecting, these special therapies will work wonders. Pooja Nautiyal, a spa owner, says, “Water is a great way to soothe your body. Many spa centres have specialised treatments for pregnant women; removing the muscle knots and easing the body and mind through aromatherapy and essential oils are often favoured. We also recommend music therapy; Indian ragas have the ability to soothe your mind. For instance, Kalyani has as a positive impact on both the mother and foetus. So, we play reverberating music while giving them the massage.”
 
 
 
 If you’ve always wanted to go on a vacation with your husband but could never manage one, now’s the time. Rakesh Bapat, executive manager with an MNC, says, “My wife is a working woman and we could never manage to go on a holiday because of our schedule. But now, she is in her second trimester and I’m doing my best to keep her relaxed. We now take off on weekends to resorts or nearby destinations.” 
 
 
 
 Catch up with family for dinner, go for a film or indulge in a shopping spree. Now’s the time to treat yourself to guilty pleasures in life. Sleep, because your body deserves a break. Also, learn to say no at times and put yourself and your needs above all.
 
