LUDHIANA: At a time when most of the prominent faces of AAP have lost elections from high-profile constituencies, senior party leader and SC lawyer   has emerged victorious from Dakha constituency, promising to fulfil promises made to people while being in the opposition. He won after giving a neck-to-neck fight to sitting SD candidate Manpreet Singh Ayali and winning by 4,169 votes. Phoolka got 58,923 votes while his closest rival Ayali polled 54,754 votes. 

 The candidates were facing each other for the second time after the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, in which both had lost to Congress candidate Ravneet Singh Bittu. Phoolka then had polled second largest number of votes ahead of Ayali.
 
 Phoolka attributes his victory to the sustained work for spreading education and the drive against drug menace that party volunteers have been carrying out in the area for the past several years. Saying that people have recognised the good work, he, however, is quick to add that the party still has a long way to go. "We will ensure that the Congress fulfils the promises, which it had made during the elections, and while being in the opposition will support it in completing those tasks," he said while speaking to TOI.
 
 Meanwhile, Ayali feels that the NRI factor has played an important role in the victory of Phoolka. "AAP managed to create a hype through social media that it will form the government. The impression that Phoolka was a chief ministerial candidate prompted people to vote in his favour. The drive was also led by several NRIs," said a close confidant of Ayali.
 
 AAP supporters, however, feel that there was resentment among the voters against the outgoing SAD-BJP party and its leaders and the sentiments, which was apparent in the outcome of elections. They also maintained that the issue of drug menace, which led to a number of deaths in the constituency in the last few years, weighed heavily in the minds of voters, for which they blamed the Akali leaders.
 
 Phoolka does not rule out this factor and adds that in the coming times his party will ensure that the ruling Congress does not deviate from its promise to root out drug problem.
 
 "We will support Congress in its drive against drugs and ensure that Capt Amarinder Singh fulfils the promise of putting SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia behind bars," said Phoolka.
 
 He adds that AAP in this campaign has made top Akali and Congress leaders realise the importance of common people. "Never before Parkash Singh Badal or Capt Amarinder Singh campaigned and interacted with the masses as during these elections. The credit goes to AAP," the leader quips.
 
 Of the 1,45,306 votes polled in Dakha, Phoolka got 40.55% by polling 58,923 votes while Manpreet Ayali got 37.68% vote share by polling 54,754 votes. Congress's Major Singh Bhaini got 19.66% vote share with 28,571 votes. In the 2012 assembly polls, Manpreet Ayali, while making his debut in assembly polls had secured 72208, and won by a margin of 16,388 votes by defeating Jasbir Singh Khagura of Congress, who had secured 55,820 votes.
 
 
