PATNA: NDA allies RLSP and HAM (S) remained unrepresented as Bihar CM   inducted 14 MLAs of his JD(U) and 12 of BJP into his   on Saturday.
 
  LJP chief Ram Vilas Paswan’s brother  , who is not a member of the state legislature, was also among the 27 ministers administered oath by governor Keshari Nath Tripathi at Raj Bhawan.
  
  BJP functionary and minister Nand Kishore Yadav said six ministers would be sworn in later. “As per the decision on distribution of ministerial berths, 19 are of JD (U) quota and 16 of BJP-LJP-RLSP-HAM(S) combine,” Yadav said.
  
  Asked about non-representation, RLSP’s state unit secretary general Satyanand Prasad Dangi told TOI the party had given the name of its Harlakhi MLA Sudhanshu Shekhar and the NDA’s central committee approved it. “The state leadership perhaps thought otherwise,” he said and added, however, that there was “no problem”.
  
  RLSP sources said Nitish was against taking Sudhanshu on board. RLSP chief   has also been a vocal critic of Nitish.
  
  Sources said HAM (S) president Jitan Ram Manjhi was miffed over the inclusion of Paras. “Principles and criteria should be uniform for all. We had recommended the name of a party member, who is not a member of the legislature, but they rejected it,” Manjhi said.
  
  With Nitish and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi taking oath on Thursday, the strength of state cabinet has now gone up to 29. While Nitish has retained home, general administration, vigilance and public relations departments, Sushil Kumar Modi will hold finance, commercial taxes, environment and forests and information technology portfolios.
  
  Most JD (U) ministers of the previous Grand Alliance government have returned in the cabinet. They include Rajiv Ranjan Singh, Bijendra Prasad Yadav, Shravan Kumar, Jai Kumar Singh and Maheshwar Hazari.
  
  Many of the BJP ministers in the state’s NDA- I and NDA- II governments (2005-2013), including Nand Kishore and Prem Kumar besides Modi, have also been inducted into the new cabinet.
  
  The CM seems to have tried to strike a balance among different caste constituencies. For instance, the BJP has taken four EBC, three OBC, one Mahadalit, one Rajput, two Brahmin and two Bhumihar ministers. There are only one woman and one Muslim ministers in the new cabinet.
  
  Former state BJP president   took oath separately as he could not make it to the main function due to flight delay.
