NAGPUR: The tussle between   (VCA) and city police at Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court is getting murkier. After a fresh set of allegations were levelled by the police in their affidavit on Monday,   filed a rejoinder on Wednesday denying them all. The case is likely to come up for hearing on Thursday before a bench of Justice Bhushan Gavai and Justice Indira Jain.

 The affidavit filed by VCA President Anand Jaiswal asserted that the Jamtha stadium was not under jurisdiction of   (NMC) and was still under Jamtha Gram Panchayat. On police claim that stadium’s occupancy capacity was 37,942, the senior counsel made it clear that total capacity was 55,000, as per no-objection certificate (NOC) of February 18, 2014, given by the director of Mumbai-based Maharashtra Fire Services (MFS). The applicants have attached another letter by superintendent of police (Nagpur rural) on February 17 last year mentioning that capacity was about 49,000, calculated after the police had thoroughly inspected the stadium.
 
 Citing sanctioned map of the stadium, VCA affidavit stated the capacity was 46,255 that included 3,935 in North stand, 13,500 in South, 15,270 in East and 13,100 in West stands. Moreover, Maharashtra government had also permitted the VCA to sell 44,000 tickets online through a resolution of January 18 and two days later the collector had granted NOC. It contended that cops had inspected the stadium several times during 24 matches played there and were well aware of the fact that its total capacity was over 44,000 seats.
 
 With regards to the allegation of lack of NOC from the chief fire officer, the VCA stated that since MFS director had already granted it on February 3, there was no need for NOC from an officer who works under the director. The stadium was twice issued certificates regarding maintenance of fire prevention and safety measures by the licensed agency.
 
 On the charge of inadequate parking during T20 international played between India and England on January 29, the applicant clarified it was provided as per the sanctioned map. Additionally, 38 acres was earmarked for the purpose which can’t be termed “inadequate” by any stretch of imagination. VCA pointed out that one-third of this parking area was reserved by the police for their own vehicles.
 
 “At places like Mumbai, Kolkata, and Bangalore, such huge parking was not provided, even during a world cup matches. Hence, the allegations that VCA admitted to insufficient parking is denied. We never made any such statement and the parking was adequate which was evident from the fact that no untoward incident took place,” the affidavit stated.
 
 On need for a performing licence as foreigners were playing the match, VCA made it clear that cricket players were “sportsmen” and not “foreign performers”.
 
 Reacting to the claims of lack of environmental clearance to the stadium, Jaiswal stated that Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) and Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) had already filed affidavits before the   (NGT) granting green signal in this regard. Even sewage treatment plant had been provided. “Only built up area for covered construction is to be considered for grant of environmental clearance and facilities open to sky will be activity area. Cops’ application before NGT pointing out alleged flaws about stadium’s environmental clearance was already dismissed,” he said.
 
 On non-deployment of NDRF team during match, the VCA submitted communication of deputy resident collector on January 29 stating that a fire tender and 23-member NDRF team will be present at the stadium with fire safety equipment.
 
 “All allegations made by Hingna PI Moreshwar Barapatre, are misleading and investigations were carried out in a mala fide manner,” the VCA’s affidavit said while demanding that the FIR registered by the police under Section 188 and 336 of IPC and other Acts be quashed.
 
