MARGAO: In the last assembly elections,   joined the rest of the Goan electorate to reject dynasty politics, as Yuri Alemao, son of former urban development minister Joaquim Alemao, who contested on the NCP ticket, was trounced by BJP’s Subhash Phal Dessai. The rest of the Alemao clan who contested the March 2012 assembly elections –   in Navelim, his daughter Valanka in Benaulim, and Joaquim in Cuncolim, bit the dust – thereby smashing to smithereens the Alemaos’ dream of ushering in ‘family raj’ in Goa.

 This time, however, it’s Family Raj 2.0 that is at play in the Sanguem constituency. Quepem MLA, Chandrakant ‘Babu’ Kavlekar is trying his luck at dynasty politics by fielding his wife, Savitri, for the 2017 polls. Kavlekar, himself, is contesting on the Congress ticket from the neighbouring Quepem constituency.
 
 Political analysts are of the view that the family raj narrative no longer holds threat to Savitri as the issue has lost its sting and no longer dominates the political discourse in the state. Moreover, political sources say, it is for the first time in two decades that the Congress camp has seen a resurgence of sorts among its foot soldiers in Sanguem. The last time Sanguem was represented by a Congress MLA in the state legislative assembly was from 1994 to 1999. Since 1999, for the last three assembly elections, the seat has been held by the BJP. 
 
 “For the last nearly two decades, inertia had set in the Congress camp. It goes to Savitri’s credit that, despite being a new entrant in electoral politics, she has managed to instill a sense of enthusiasm and optimism in the young as well as veteran Congressmen of the area,” a poll watcher remarked, indicating that the Kavlekar couple’s prowess could well unsettle Phal Dessai whose popularity has taken a considerable dip.
 
 “What could also work in favour of Savitri is that the traditional Congress votes from the Catholic community, which had moved to the BJP in the last elections on account of the Modi wave, anti-Congress and anti-family raj sentiment, may return to the Congress,” a political analyst said.
 
 The Congress had refrained from fielding its candidate in Sanguem in the 2012 polls. The seat-sharing arrangement between the Congress and NCP had resulted in Yuri contesting the elections as the alliance candidate on the NCP ticket. There are over 4,500 voters from the Catholic community in this constituency. 
 
 The BJP camp in Sanguem has been hit by dissension since the last two years. Apparently unhappy with the style and functioning of Phal Dessai, many of his supporters have joined the camp of former Sanguem MLA Vasudev Meg Gaonkar, who had represented Sanguem constituency for two consecutive terms as the BJP MLA. For the 2012 polls, BJP preferred Phal Dessai over Gaonkar for the ticket, thereby hurting the ST community, which comprises 30% of the electorate. Gaonkar belongs to the ST community and commands the respect of the tribes.
 
 Gaonkar is now contesting as the MGP-GSM-SS alliance candidate to avenge the “hurt” caused to him by the BJP by “paying scant respect to his party loyalty”. Gaonkar, political analysts feel, will, besides garnering a significant portion of the ST votes, also pull considerable “Hindutva” votes, as the Uguem-Netravali belt is considered to be the cradle of the RSS, which has now aligned its forces with the MGP-GSM-SS alliance. If that happens, sources say, this may turn out to be a lethal combination that could put BJP in a danger zone. 
 
 However, Prasad Gaonkar, who is contesting as an independent, could play spoilsport for the MGP-GSM-SS alliance, sources point out. The young tribal candidate had polled nearly 4,500 votes in the 2012 polls, thereby eating into a sizeable chunk of the traditional BJP votes. The ST community in this constituency has traditionally voted for the MGP/BJP in the past. Political analysts agree that the probable split in the ST votes between the two tribal candidates is likely to work in favour of the BJP. AAP’s Ravindra Velip, also a tribal, is also expected to further divide the ST vote in this constituency. 
 
 The BJP camp banks on the “huge” infrastructure developmental work carried out by Phal Dessai in the Sanguem constituency over the last five years. “Phal Dessai has brought about vast penetration of all social welfare schemes of the state government, including those meant for tribals, in Sanguem. Besides, one cannot discount the fact that Prime Minister   has endeared himself to the rural folk with his innovative schemes like Swachh Bharat, Digital India, etc. The demonetization exercise, despite all criticism for poor implementation, is largely viewed in the countryside with a nationalist attitude. This feel-good factor may hold Phal Dessai in good stead this time,” a political commentator remarked.
 
 With seven candidates in the fray, and the fight likely to be four-cornered, political analysts say it could be anybody’s game. 
 
