He is an actor and television host, but likes to call himself an entertainer. High on the success of his weekend   show  , he speaks to Bangalore Times about the show, what it means to him and his plans for the big event he is planning for this milestone, which will be held in Jayanagar on January 8. Excerpts...

 
 The idea came about when I was a contestant on another show. I was clear that I wanted to do something with comedy and was very adamant about who to cast. I wanted to have people who were not known for comedy. Yes, there are people known for their humour on the show, but take, for instance,   Vastarey and   — nobody thought that they could do comedy.
 Overall, putting the whole show together was a huge challenge for me. It is difficult to convince people that satire can work consistently, without having to stoop to crass comedy like slapstick and cross-dressing, etc. I can get Kuri Pratap or Mandya Ramesh to dress up like a woman and people may find that funny, but I will not do that. For me, that is not comedy. We have been working very hard to prove that comedy can be done the way are doing it and make it funny for audiences week-on-week.
 
 
 Extremely difficult! It is not just about the momentum, but also about the quality of jokes. The lifespan of a joke is only as long as you laugh at it and then it dies, so there is no way that you can ever repeat one. Also, today, with social media, whatever you do and think is funny, there will be someone to point out that it’s been done-and-dusted earlier. So, the challenge is to create laughter. The tricky part is that we try to evoke laughter using situations that we come across and it is easy for a naysayer to brand it boring. What people fail to see is that it is an ongoing process for us and not one-off. Every weekend we have to have new laughs, and that is no mean feat. I have done   so far and it is nearly impossible to come up with 200 new jokes.
 Public opinion is that some of your humour borders on insulting your cast, and, sometimes even the audience. Is that the brand of comedy you want to endorse?
 That is not the case! Anything you say becomes insulting if you say it behind someone’s back, and not when you say it to their face and are conscious about not crossing a line. The format of our show is that the entire cast and crew shares a fantastic rapport with each other, so you have the freedom to pull each other’s leg. We do that in our day-to-day lives as well. We go that extra mile to bring a smile to our near-and-dear ones. Ultimately, it all boils down to the comfort level you share with a person.
 
 
 I am receptive to feedback — both negative and positive — because I know that too much of anything can get boring. So, sticking to one format all the time won’t make sense for my show. In fact, a few weeks ago, I got some calls telling me that the show isn’t very exciting these days, so I called my team and we went back to the drawing board to chalk out a revised strategy. It worked, because earlier this week, the same people called me again and congratulated our efforts.
 
 
 You never know what is a high. You are alive if there are ups and downs, pretty much like an ECG. Only if your graph shows those fluctuations will people notice and say that you are still alive and kicking. If you have a straight line, you are dead. The way I see it, Maja Talkies is a part of my job, not my life. Yes, it is special to me, but my life does not end with it. I cherish it because I have been able to sustain a comedy show for this long. This is a milestone that I could not have even dreamt of. Right now, I am enjoying my work.
 
 
 We are taking our set out to a public venue and are looking at making it much more exclusive, in the sense that it should not be like something that’s been attempted before. This event is not just about our show, it will be a tribute to all comedians and a celebration of the importance of comedy in our lives.
 — Prathibha.Joy@timesgroup.com
 
