DEHRADUN: A year-end college trip to Uttarakhand to celebrate   turned tragic for two Mumbai-based students who are feared drowned while bathing in river Ganga in Rishikesh on Monday morning. The incident took place at Neem beach in Muni Ki Reti area of Rishikesh.

 
  
 The victims identified as Vinay Sethi and Karan Jadhav, both in their early twenties, were pursuing B.Com from Thakur College in Kandivali in Mumbai, and had reached Rishikesh on Sunday afternoon along with a group of 80 college students, after celebrating New Year at Nainital. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Senior Superintendent of Police (SP) of Tehri NS Napalchiyal said, “On Monday morning, the group of students participated in 16-km rafting between Shivpuri and Neem beach. After finishing the rafting, Vinay and Karan had gone for a swim in the river and were swept away in River Ganga.”
 
 According to Sanjeev Kumar, sub-inspector in Muni Ki Reti police station, “We have been told by their friends that both Vinay and Karan had decided to jump in the river from a cliff on the beach while others preferred to sit on the shore. They were staying in a guest house in Muni Ki Reti.”
 
 Reportedly, after making two-three successful jumps, Vinay again jumped from the cliff but, this time, the gushing waters of Ganga swept him away as he struggled to remain close to the shore. “Karan also jumped immediately after Vinay and was washed away too by the river flow,” said sub-inspector Sanjeev Kumar. 
 
 Meanwhile, a joint search operation has been launched by State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and Jal Police team to trace the missing students. “SDRF team equipped with rafts and other necessary equipment’s along with divers of Jal Police are searching the students between the stretch of Neem beach and Ram Jhula in Rishikesh,” said SP Tehri.
 
 The parents of the students have been informed about the mishap and they are on their way to Rishikesh, a police official said. Vinay is a resident of Bandra while Karan used to stay in Meera Road in Mumbai.
 
