BENGALURU: Nearly 59,000 aspiring engineers from across India sat for the Consortium of Medical, Engineering and Dental Colleges of   (ComedK) UGET (undergraduate entrance test) for admissions to 150 private engineering colleges in the state on Sunday.

 Most students found the online exam to be of average difficulty; mathematics and chemistry sections were the hardest.
 
 “Overall, the paper was easy. I struggled in maths and chemistry as they were the toughest sections for me,“ said Harshvardhan from MES College who appeared for the test at Nitte Meenakshi Institute of Technology. Even Bharath from   found integration mathematics the toughest section.
 
 In Karnataka, 22,484 of the 26,568 registered students appeared for the test in 115 centres from 10am to 1pm. From this year, the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) will grant admission to medical seats, while private en gineering colleges of the state will fill up their seats through the ComedK entrance exam. Sunday's exam was supposed to be held on May 7 but was rescheduled as it clashed with NEET.
 
 At Global Academy of Technology, Rajarajeshwarinagar, 217 of the 250 registered students were present. Though the test proceeded smoothly in most centres, three of the 58 centres reported delayed logins for some students. However, according to ComedK, the built-in mechanism permits a time extension of the duration delayed to students.
 
 Akruti Khandelwal's experience, however, was different. “I wasted a lot of time because there was a problem with my computer.In the first 15 minutes, I had to switch three computers and lost nearly 20 minutes in the process.I received only 10 minutes extra in the end,“ she said.
 
 Another student Suraksha V said due to slow computer server, she had to spend nearly 15 minutes on the first section alone. Some families were under extra pressure as their kids had not yet received results of the CBSE board exams and had to compete with the state board students.“I'm worried about my son's admission as his results are not out yet. We are also trying in colleges like CIT Coimbatore. However, for admissions in this state, we are completely dependent on his ComedK results,“ said a worried   .
 
 (Inputs: Ananth N, Jeffrin Francis and Nishal Uthappa)
 
