NAGPUR:   river, one of the two raw drinking water sources of the city, has dried up to a great extent even before summer has attained its peak.

 The   (NMC), in its bid to prevent water crisis, has started to feed the river with 100 million litres per day (MLD) raw drinking water from Navegaon Khairi irrigation reservoir. Any obstacles in feeding the river will result in severe water crisis in half of the city during summer.
 
 The water in Kanhan river begins to go down in April every year but it happened this year in February itself. “It happened in March last year,” an NMC official from water works department told  . “NMC is having ample raw drinking water allocation from Kamptee Khairi irrigation reservoir. It requested water resources department (WRD) to divert 100 MLD raw water from reservoir to river in February. About 100 MLD raw water is being diverted into the river from February 22 onwards. The NMC is able to treat and supply 210 MLD water from Kanhan water treatment plant in present condition which is preventing the water crisis,” he added.
 
 The official added that the threat of obstacles in diversion of raw water from reservoir to river always prevails during summer. “Raw water is released into reservoir’s right bank canal and then diverted into a nullah at Tamaswadi section after 19km. The raw water then enters the river from nullah after 10km. It takes six more km for the raw water to reach the water treatment plant. The raw water takes 35km to reach plant from reservoir. The canal is known for regular breaches. It happened in April last year. Only 70% raw water reached the plant as gets evaporated or gets diverted by farmers or brick kiln manufacturers or it sinks in river. The lost percentage increases with rise in temperature,” he said.
 
 Areas of East, North and some parts of   are totally depended upon Kanhan plant. Any disruption in supply results in water crisis in these areas and also in some of remaining areas of the city.
 
 The NMC is to be blamed for the mess. A proposal was prepared to construct a barrage on Kanhan and   river ten years ago. The barrage would have ensured enough raw drinking water to the plant. Unfortunately, the project is moving at snail’s pace.
 
 A senior NMC official told TOI that the water resources department has started the process to prepare detailed project (DPR) report of barrage. “NMC first paid Rs26 lakh to WRD for conducting survey for barrage. Then, an amount of Rs1.82 crore was paid for DPR. Now, WRD demanded Rs25 lakh more for another type of study. Construction of barrage will be possible if WRD gives positive report and funds are allotted by the state government,” official said.
 
 The NMC had planned to develop Jamghat and Rahari projects too for having its own raw drinking water sources ten years ago but the project is pending on papers.
 
