Mumbai:   ( ), and  , Jamshedpur have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to collaborate for promoting quality executive education in India. The MoU marks the coming together of two potent forces for professional education — the unmatched pedigree, history and reputation of XLRI management education practice and TCLL’s physical presence, prowess in delivering learning technology, strong corporate connections and commitment to bringing excellence in education in India.

 Working professionals looking to upgrade their skill-set and move up the corporate ladder can choose from the newly launched and upcoming programmes to be delivered in different modes that takes care of the busy life of today’s working executives. The Executive Certificate Programme on Building Leadership Competencies focuses on creating space for learning around essential competencies and values for leaders to be successful. The classes would be in the form of live interactive lectures to be beamed directly to the participants’ desktops/laptops. The course is open for applications.
 
 The Post-Graduate Certificate Course in Business Analytics for Management Decision (PGCBAMD) will be a 12-month programme focused on building foundation as well as advanced skills in the domain of business analytics. XLRI aims to create specialists in the field of business analytics with in-depth knowledge in various areas and who would be able to provide managerial insights by analysing the data that enables decision-making. Applications for the course can be sent from May 10, 2017.
 
 The classes would be in the form of live interactive lectures to be attended at TCLL centres spread across the country in all major cities. 
 
 Commenting on the alliance, Anish Srikrishna, president, TCLL, said, “We are delighted to be associated with XLRI, one of India’s top business schools. As TCLL continues to strive towards its vision of providing excellent professional education to learners across age groups, I am confident that this association will be a decisive milestone. We are committed to maintain and exceed the high academic standards that learners have automatically come to associate with XLRI and TCLL.”
 
 Father E Abraham, S J, director, XLRI, said, “We continually strive to build mutually beneficial partnership and look forward to this engagement with TCLL. We hope that this alliance will provide great opportunities for both XLRI and TCLL. We look forward to creating new educational programmes and identifying ways for our faculty to interact with executives and other professionals in the region. This partnership will provide terrific opportunities for sharing of ideas and developing solutions to many of the world’s key business issues.” To enrol, candidates may log on to http://www.timestsw.com/XLRI-building-leadership-competencies/ or call 7400097470.
 
 
