NEW DELHI:   on Saturday said that the   had laid down certain terms and conditions for its  , which lacked clarity.

 “We have demonstrated in the assembly how an EVM can be hacked. The hackothon means that the hackers should be given an unconditional access to tampering the machine. There should not be any limit on accessing different parts of the machines,” AAP functionary Sanjay Singh said. 
 
 An AAP delegation is likely to visit the commission on Monday to seek clarity on the matter. The challenge will be open to those national and state parties, which contested the assembly polls in five states—Uttar Pradesh,  ,  , Goa and Punjab. 
 
 The poll panel will allow the hackers to tamper with the EVMs by pressing one or a combination of keys on CU (control unit), BU (ballot units) or both or by making external communication to the EVMs through wireless, bluetooth or mobile phone, etc, because during storage, the EVMs remain sealed, an EC statement said.
 
 AAP has taken exception to these conditions. Singh said hackers would not follow any guidelines of the EC; rather they would use all means and methods to tamper with the voting machine.
 
 “We again request the EC to give an unconditional access to EVMs to the political parties’ nominated hackers to tamper with the EVMs,” Singh said after EC announced that the challenge would be held on June 3.
 
 AAP said it could be an in-camera exercise and EC officials could witness the hacking process but the hackers must get unconditional access to all parts (internal and external) of the machines. “If you do not allow the hackers to read the chip and access its internal parts, will the hacker use mantra to hack into it,” Singh asked.
 
 “EC’s conditional challenge on EVM tampering is similar to asking a man whose limbs have been tied to cross the sea,” Singh said. AAP wants to access all parts of the EVMs, including the chip and motherboard. 
 
 Earlier on Saturday morning, EC held a demonstration on how the EVMs work and claimed that the voting machines are tamper-proof. AAP alleged that EC was under political pressure to delay the EVM tampering challenge.
 
