KOLKATA: A computer   died after falling off a   in his New Town office   on Saturday morning. The police suspect he might have suffered a sudden stroke. However, the cops can be sure only after the post-mortem report comes out. 

 A Mysore resident, Amar M (31), used to work with IT giant IBM. He was posted at the DLF unit I since last year. He stayed at New Town’s AK block with four other friends. According to his friends, he got up around 7am on Saturday and reached the office gym located on the fourth floor within half an hour. “He was on the treadmill when we suddenly noticed that he slumped and fell around 8am. He was profusely bleeding from the nose and by the time he was taken downstairs, he was unconscious,” said one of his colleagues.
 
 He was taken to Columbia Asia Hospital where he was declared ‘brought dead’. Cops said he had two injuries on his body. “Both of them seem to be due to the fall and nothing homicidal has been found so far,” said DC (crime) Santosh Pandey.
 
 The cops have started recording the statements of his colleagues and other paying guests. “We learnt that he recently had some heart problem and even underwent an operation. But this is too early to make speculations. His family is flying in from Mysore and we hope all these details will be sorted out,” said a senior investigating officer. Doctors who examined him said he had “superficial injuries”.
 
 According to witnesses, Amar stopped the treadmill before he fell. “There is a possibility the treadmill was at a high speed. We have seized the treadmill. The IBM authorities have been supportive. We might look at some CCTV footages based on the autopsy findings,” an officer said.
 
 Doctors suspect the youth might have had ‘undetected accelerated hypertension’. “It seems he suffered a brain haemorrhage due to a rupture of Berry’s aneurysm as he bled from the nose. It is likely that the brain stem was involved as it tends to stop both respiration and circulation in a matter of seconds,” said Debashish Saha, consultant, AMRI Hospitals.
 
 According to experts, the machines’ fast belts can lead to a loss of balance, resulting in bruises, cuts or broken bones. One can also even get entangled in its cords, which can cause asphyxiation. Though such treadmill accidents are common, deaths have been rare. The husband of Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg, Dave Goldberg had lost his life when he fell from a treadmill. He reportedly suffered from a traumatic brain injury and hypovolemic shock — a condition where the victim suffers severe blood and fluid loss.
 
 Cardio surgeon Kunal Sarkar said it is important to get regular health check-ups after the age of 30. “This is the only way to prevent silent illnesses like accelerated hypertension. However, our country lacks such culture,” said Sarkar.
 
 
