Nagpur: “A strong leadership and political will can alone solve the problems people in Jammu and Kashmir today face,” said senior journalist Gajanan Nimdeo on Saturday. 

 Nimdeo was speaking at a programme ‘Kashmir: Fear and reality’, organized by Yashwantrao Chavan Pratishthan and Vidarbha Gaurav Pratishthan, to share views of editors who were recently invited by the J&K government. Sharing his experiences he had during the Kashmir visit, Nimdeo said, “I felt nervous when I received an invitation to visit Kashmir given the turbulent situation prevailing there. However, my perception changed after visiting the state.”
 
 “What I gathered after meeting chief minister Mehbooba Mufti was that the state government should put in extra efforts to ensure peace in the valley instead of blaming the Centre for lack of action. In fact, both — the state and central governments — should establish a rapport with people and assure them that they are integral part of India.”
 
 Talking about young stone pelters in Kashmir, Nimdeo said, “The youths are indulging in such acts as they are frustrated with the government’s failure to create jobs and bring about development. Pakistan-sponsored terrorism is a reality, but the government should win confidence of the Kashmiris so that elements fomenting trouble in the valley could be effectively controlled.”
 
 Nimdeo laid stress on maintaining communal amity and cited the example of two Muslims performing rituals at a temple of Lord Mahadev near Pahalgam. They do their job just like any Hindu Pandit would have done, he added.
 
 Manikant Soni, also a senior scribe, said, “Kashmir is a truly secular state where different religions coexist. The only problem the Kashmiris have, according to him, is with the government. “Common people are angry with the state police. Similar is the case with politicians who hesitate to take corrective measures fearing that forces that be from across the border would harm them,” Soni said. People in Kashmir have a liberal culture as not a single woman was seen wearing a ‘burqa’ during the six-day visit, he said.
 
 Girish Gandhi of Yashwantrao Chavan Pratishthan said, “Kashmir is an integral part of India. We treat Kashmiri youths with love and compassion and they will be our ambassadors in the valley.”
 
 Former MP Datta Meghe was present.
 
 (Reporting by Viraj Deshpande)
 
 
