NEW DELHI: The   ( ) on Monday said it was considering imposing a ban on all polluting fuels such as furnace oil (FO), pet coke, C9 and rubber oil, which do not have any specifications. However, the Union   ministry has raised a number of queries about the availability of natural gas to replace these fuels.

 In a meeting called by the SC-mandated EPCA and attended by natural gas suppliers on the phaseout of these polluting fuels, the latter said they had the infrastructure to supply to all industrial areas in NCR. EPCA members directed the MoEFCC representative to submit to the ministry that gas companies are ready to replace these polluting fuels. Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL), for example, said it had gas pipelines in Delhi, Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, Rewari and Hapur. Adani Gas informed that its pipeline was within 10 metres of every industrial area in Faridabad and Khurja. GAIL and Haryana City Gas submitted that they can cover areas like Neemrana, Bhiwadi, Sonepat, Meerut, Manesar, Udyognagar and Faridabad.
 
 One of the companies said solid fuels like coal, biomass and wood are being used by industries in Faridabad to cut costs. “You can stop furnace oil or pet coke but there are many other variants of these like C5, C9 and rubber oil (made by burning tyres), which are being used widely by industries and are extremely polluting,” a company representative said. To this, EPCA members said all variants would be banned under the same order. “Any polluting fuel that doesn’t have specifications will be banned. There is no reason not to ban it when companies are ready to supply natural gas,” an EPCA member said.
 
 The main reason industries use polluting fuels because their prices have always been far lower than those of natural gas. The electricity price generated from furnace oil, for example, is Rs 4-5 per unit compared to Rs 7-8 for gas. The companies asked EPCA to recommend that VAT on gas be removed to make it more competitive. EPCA members assured they would recommend MoEFCC to take look into it.
 
 The gas companies said prices would increase April onward by about 8% and the Goods and   (GST) would also have a massive impact on the sector. “Because of GST, prices may even increase by 14%, making them on a par with that of diesel,” a company representative said.
 
 An EPCA member countered this by saying that there should not be any monopolistic pricing or unfair trade practices. “You (gas companies) should consider common pricing,” the member maintained. Another EPCA member said China and the US had restricted pet coke use because of its air pollution potential. “Now, India has become a dumping ground for pet coke from all over the world. Our investigation has showed large amounts of pet coke is being imported because our industries don’t want to use gas,” the member added.
 
 TOI had on December 20 highlighted how most industrial areas were using furnace oil, despite being aware of its massive pollution potential, simply because it’s cheaper than natural gas.
 
 
