MANGALURU:   adviser Dharmaraj has urged the urban development department to ensure that interests of all stakeholders are equally met in one-time amnesty that the ‘Akrama Sakrama’ scheme of the state government provides. 

 The rules framed under section 76 (F) (F) of the Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act which deals with this issue has to be carefully worded in that it truly becomes Amnesty measure that it is supposed to be, he said.
 
 Making this plea to the minister for urban development R Roshan Baig at a review meeting that the minister chaired at MCC on Saturday, Dharmaraj said under the present rules, it is almost certain that 90% of building violations in Bengaluru will not be regularized. 
 
 In Mangaluru, while violation in high and low rise buildings will be regularized to a large extent, the worst sufferers will be those who own and reside in smaller residential and commercial units, he pointed.
 
 Many states such as Andhra Pradesh have dealt with the issue of regularization in a proactive way keeping in mind the spirit of a   direction that has made it clear that this is one time amnesty and no more concessions will be given to the violators, he said. “AP has regularized even 100% violations in certain cases,” Dharmaraj said, adding that the slab system of regularization that other states have adopted should be followed in Karnataka as well. 
 
 Pointing to a lacunae in rules framed, he said when rules were framed in 2008, the average setback on all sides of a building was taken into consideration for regularization of setback violation. Noting that this is not the case in the current rules, he said such blanket system of regularization of violations will help no one and will place Karnataka in a situation that Tamil Nadu finds itself, thanks to the rigidity of rules that the government has framed there.
 
 It is the intent of the Supreme Court for   rules to be curative in nature and also strong enough to ensure there are no future violations, he said, adding that strict penal provisions should be introduced to prevent its recurrence. 
 
 Similar rigid provisions of regularization have been incorporated in to   and Karnataka Municipalities Act, he added. Baig said the government will look into all aspects before notifying the final rules.
 
