NAVI MUMBAI: As the “last and final” deadline for the financial bidding of the Rs 16,000 crore   ends on Monday,  , the nodal authority for the project, is hopeful of getting more than one bid.

 The deadline for financial bidding (Request For Proposal or RFP) has been extended thrice for fair play. Four parties made it to the round after clearing the technical bid (Request for quotation or RFQ). GVK Power and Infrastructure-led Mumbai International Airport Ltd ( ) was the lone bidder in the previous two bids. The other three qualified bidders have raised questions about the timeline and cost overruns involved in executing the project.
 
 CVC guidelines mandate minimum two extensions in case of single bid to ensure transparency. Cidco MD, Bhushan Gagrani said he is hopeful of getting more than one bid. He has said that the bid would be closed this time, and in case of single bid, it will be forwarded to the state cabinet to take a decision.
 
 The other qualified bidders are GMR Airports Ltd and MIA Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd, Tata Realty and Infrastructure Ltd and Vinci Airports and Voluptas Developers Pvt. Ltd. (Hiranandani Group) and Zurich Airport International (both consortiums).
 
 MIAL has the right of first refusal as per the Airports Authority of India (AAI) that has allowed for the clause of the same party getting a favoured status if the second airport is within 150 km of the existing airport. It means MIAL’s bid is within 10% of the highest bidder then it will get a chance to match the bid and get the project. 
 
 The Rs 16,000 crore NMIA will be executed on a public–private partnership (PPP) through a proposed special purpose vehicle (SPV) with 74% private equity and 26% (13% each) by the state government routed through Cidco and AAI (airport authority of India).
 
 Tata Realty & Infrastructure, Hiranandani Group and GMRAirports had earlier said they needed time to decide till issues linked to resettlement and pre-development work are resolved. For, Cidco, nodal authority for the project, claims that one runway will be operational by 2019 and the entire airport ready the following year. “The corporation wants us to complete the work within three-and-a-half years when the ground levelling work itself will take over two years,” a Tata Realty official had said earlier.
 
 
