NEW DELHI: The   held on Tuesday that a panel of administrators is required to clean “impurities“ within the cricket administration and rejected a plea by the Centre,   and other cricket associations that such a move would dilute the autonomy of the cricket body.

 A bench of Justices  ,   and D Y Chandrachud said the court was not intending to destroy BCCI's autonomy. The court made it clear that the appointment of the panel would be an interim arrangement.
 
 “We do not want to destroy the autonomy (of BCCI). The autonomy would be there after whatever impurity is there (in cricket administration) is cleansed,“ the bench said after the Centre and cricket associations opposed appointment of administrators to manage the affairs of BCCI.
 
 The bench also dispelled the impression that it would examine validity of the apex court's earlier judgement in the BCCI case, delivered by a bench headed by the then CJI Justice T S Thakur, but assured the cricket associations to hear their grievances. Throwing its weight behind BCCI, the Centre told the court that appointment of administrators would destroy the game itself and would be against the autonomy of the board. Attorney General Mukul Rohatgi said the Centre is exploring legislativeexecutive options to frame rules for sports administration in the country and requested the bench not to appoint administrators for a few weeks.
 
 He pleaded to the apex court to recall its earlier orders by which it had directed implementation of Justice R M Lodha committee report.
 
 “The central government is mulling over the situation and thinking to take steps to bring uniformity in sports administration through executive or legislative measures. We are looking at a larger picture and I request the bench to hold back its decision for appointment of administra tors for at least two weeks. It is a serious issue,“ Rohatgi said.
 
 The bench, however, rejected his plea and asked the AG why the government maintained silence when the issue was heard extensively by the apex court during the last three years.
 
 “I take the blame for it,“ Rohatgi replied. Sensing that the bench was adamant to appoint administrators, the AG and senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for state bodies, pleaded that they should also be allowed to suggest names for the panel.BCCI had earlier turned down the court's offer to recommend names for administrators.
 
 The court asked them to suggest names within four days and posted the case for January 31 to take a final call.
 
 SC pulls up senior advocate:
 
 Senior advocate Vikas Singh, who was pulled up by the SC for inadvertently uttering “bloody“ during the last hearing for which he immediately apologised, found himself again at the receiving end on Tuesday for violating the court's decorum.
 
 As soon as he stood up to argue the case on behalf of Kerala Cricket Association, Justice Dipak Misra reminded him of the “mess“ created by him during the last hearing. The advocate then got angry and replied that the bench had passed observations against him as it was not interested in allowing him to argue the case.
 
 “It was the lowest point in the history of Supreme Court,“ Justice D Y Chandrachud said.
 
 All the senior lawyers, including Attorney General Mukul Rohatgai and Kapil Sibal who were appearing in the case, apologised on behalf of Singh and termed it an unfortunate incident.
 
 
