BHUBANESWAR: A new App will be introduced in 11 tiger reserves of the country for techno-based survey of forest areas, prey population density and tiger movement. The app, Monitoring System for Tiger-Intensive Protection and Ecological Status (M-STrIPES), has been designed by the   (WII). 

 To implement the hi-tech monitoring system, field personnel of 11 tiger reserves on Tuesday started their training at   (STR) in Mayurbhanj district. The M-STrIPES app will be installed in android-based mobile phones that will be given to the field staff to send inputs on prey sighting, the place of sighting, tiger and other carnivorous signs to the   (NTCA) and other top wildlife officials.
 
 Deputy director at STR Ajit Satapathy said this app will help do away with the cumbersome process of manual recording of data while patrolling. "We used to have a format in which we were recording the data during foot patrolling and then feed it in the computer, collate and compile them and send it by mail and post. But, the M-STrIPES app has been designed in such a way that data fed on the spot in it can be straightaway transmitted to all those, who are authorized to access it," said Satapathy. 
 
 The 40 wildlife personnel have come from Manas, Kajiranga and Nameri tiger reserves of Assam, Pakke, Namdapha of Arunachal Pradesh, Dampa of Mizoram, Palamau of Jharkhand, Udanti Sitanadi of Chhatisharh, Buxa of  , Similipal and Satkosia of Odisha.
 
 The five-day training programme will include familiarization with the app, GPS and compass reading. The chief wildlife warden, Siddhant Das, inaugurated the training programme in the presence of inspector general, NTCA, Debabrata Swain. Field training of the personnel will be conducted in core and buffer divisions of Similipal such as STR core, Baripada, Karanjia and Rairangpur divisions.
 
 In 2016, the state government came up with the tiger census report which revealed presence of 26 tigers in Similipal alone while the state's total was 40. Out of 26 big cats in Similipal, the census shows presence of nine male, 14 female and three cubs in the 2,750 sq km core area. 
 
