NEW DELHI: Almost three decades ago, an American airlines saved $40,000 annually by removing just one olive from each salad plate.

 Giving the same attention to  ,  , the full service JV airline of  , will now increasingly source catering for passengers from the city it is flying out of. The logic: Taking catering trays, say on a   flight, for the return flight from Delhi adds to the weight of the plane on the   sector and increases fuel burn.
 
 “It is not just about savings. When we uplift food from other destinations, our passengers will get to savour the local flavours. We are now uplifting catering from Kochi, Mumbai, Kolkata and Bengaluru. We will do so in whichever city we can uplift catering from without compromising on our high standards of passenger service,” Vistara CEO   told TOI, just ahead of the airline turning two.
 
 Vistara, which is yet to break even, is looking at several areas of cost reduction and revenue augmentation. However, Phee Teik emphasies all this will be done without compromising the onboard passenger service which the airline prides itself on.
 
 “We are open to course correction and did that in the first year itself by deciding to alter the number of seats in business, premium economy and economy cabins of our planes. In many of our cities we fly to, the check-in process was outsourced. Now to reduce expense on that front, we have made that an in-house function in seven of the 18 cities we currently fly to,” he said.
 
 “We have re-negotiated many of our contracts with suppliers. On catering too, we are doing direct procurement of certain items. We are doing competitive bidding for certain things which will be on board, like say sugar sachets,” Phee Teik said.
 
 The airline has started offering the services of its security personnel at airports, who are posted at various places like check-in counters and at aircraft entry gates, to international airlines. As a revenue augmentation move, it now allows economy class passengers to use its airport lounges by paying Rs 1,000 at the check-in counter. It is increasing the options for generating ancillary revenue from passengers.
 
 The CEO favors the complete abolition of any preconditions for Indian carriers to fly abroad including the diluted 0/20 which requires a carrier to have at least 20 planes in its fleet to go overseas. “For now we accept 0/20 but even this should go eventually for the good of Indian aviation. We are not saying this for our benefit but for aviation in the country. Any airline that is perfectly safe to fly and operationally efficient should be allowed to go abroad without any restrictions,” he said.
 
 While Vistara is scheduled to get its 20th plane in June, 2018, the airline may pre-pone the delivery to become eligible to fly abroad earlier. The CEO, however, did not give any time frame when Vistara will start overseas flights. “We are working out the long term plan. Going overseas will require fund infusion. All these things are being worked out and we will launch foreign operations as soon as we are prepared,” he said.
 
