THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Finance minister T M   came down heavily on chicken traders and warned that from Monday, chicken should be sold in the state only at Rs 87 per kg. He was speaking at a news conference after holding discussions with state poultry traders here on Friday. 

 He said that the price of chicken which was Rs 103 per kg on June 30 should have been reduced by Rs 15 as the 14% tax was completely withdrawn after the GST regime came into force.
 
 Any change in price can later be made after discussions and the consent of the government. But before that, the price will have to be brought down to Rs 87. If not, it will be taken as a challenge against the government, he said.
 
 He said that chicken trade in the state is concentrated in a few hands, and the government will expand the state-run KEPCO's capacity so that the private monopoly is broken. He said that the hotels and restaurants also should reduce the prices of chicken-based food items accordingly.
 
 Isaac also said that cinema theatres that have increased the ticket rates, citing GST should reduce them at the earliest. The prices of even those tickets that were less than Rs 100 have been hiked. The taxes on such tickets were to come down from 25% to 18% after June 30. This can in no way be accepted, he said.
 
 He said the government has decided to set up GST facilitation centres in all districts. They will coordinate various initiatives, including the test purchasing and checking of prices, and will alleviate any concerns and doubts regarding the GST.
 
 The minister said that the traders will not be allowed to reap huge profits, instead of passing the benefit of GST to the consumer. He said that the   state civil supplies corporation (Supplyco) has made commendable effort in reducing the prices after the GST came into force. The government has published a list of 52 items for which the Supplyco has reduced the prices.
 
 Isaac warned the traders against any hiking prices of commodities beyond the maximum retail prices, in the name of GST. He said that such instances are being reported, and it will be strictly dealt with. He said the metrological department will widely make random purchases across the state, and if any retailer is found selling product at a higher price than the maximum retail price, he will be booked.
 
 "No retailer has the right to sell their products at a higher price than the   and if they are doing so, it will amount to challenging the public and the government. The MRP can be altered only by the manufacturers who should make two advertisements in this regard in two newspapers,"   said.
 
