The confusion over the implementation of   on movie tickets has plunged theatres into confusion, with different halls -plexes and single screens -trying different methods to communicate to the audiences the tax break-up in the ticket price.The disparity in the way tick ets look -across theatres -is nothing short of perplexing. For example, a Tuesday night show ticket of Mom at   had this breakup -`117.18 net price and 16.41 each for CGST (Central GST) and SGST (State GST) for a total of `150. “We are supposed to pay 14% CGST and 14% SGST for Hindi films. Despite asking around, no one could explain the breakup,“ said Aritra Mukherjee, an assistant director, who had bought the ticket. He finally realised that the 16.41 each was the amount in rupees of the state and central tax components.

 PVR tickets are also similar to those at Cinepolis, where the amount is mentioned in rupees.Tickets issued by INOX mention of service charge. Explained Subhasish Ganguly , regional director (East), INOX, “ All plexes outside the state government subsidy bracket can charge service tax.“
 
 
 
  
 
 Many single screens are yet to introduce the new ticketing system post GST and this is leading to a lot of confusion. At Regal, old tickets are being sold with a GST stamp. The tax breakup is not mentioned in the tickets, but a notice at the counter explains the hike. Said an employee at the theatre, who was handing out Boss 2 tickets, “We are still selling the old bunch of tickets.“ The company has ordered new tickets, but we are yet to receive them. After selling a bunch of tickets, we back-calculate the tax and the producer-exhibitor-distributor share.For the audience, we have already put up a notice outside the ticket counter,“ explained the official.
 
 
  
 
 To add to the woes of movie-goers, online sale of tickets has also become more expensive than before. For every online booking below `100, there's an 18% Integrated GST (IGST) as against 15% service tax before. “It's better to buy tickets from the counter than online,“ said   , a homemaker.There's widespread confusion, said exhibitor-distributor  . “In the new tax regime, tickets of Hindi and English films have actually become cheaper. But not many are aware of this.So, there's general inertia as far as the box office is concerned. While SpiderMan: Homecoming didn't work in Bengal, the new Hindi films too have not taken a huge opening. I don't know if it has got to do with GST, but the situation is grim,“ he said. On the other hand, the Bengal exhibitors are asking for clarity on the tax rebate announced by the state government. “Producers had initially promised to pay the amount, only to be reimbursed later by the state government.Now, they are all tightlipped,“ said the owner of a suburban theatre. To seek answers, they called for a meeting on Friday .Here's hoping GST turns out to be the good and simple tax that it promised to be.
 
 
