With   telling the audience, 'Joker ka tamasha khatam nahin hua, jaiyega nahin... jaiyega nahin," one of the last shows of Regal theatre came to an end and the cinema hall echoed with whistles and applause. On Thursday, the 85-year old 'New Delhi's Premiere Theatre' signed off with Raj Kapoor's 'Mera Naam Joker' and 'Sangam', and its old patrons came to relive their memories.

  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The British-era theatre will now be remodelled into a multiplex, and the first and the second floor of the building will house the Madame Tussauds museum. While the theatre was not making any money for the last few years, during its heyday, it used to be a favourite of Raj Kapoor, who attended many of his film premieres here.
 
  AK Bhattacharya, a 65-year-old businessman who came from Kolkata to attend the screening of Mera Naam Joker, said, "I used to watch movies in Regal during my DU days. Lambi- lambi line lagti thi yahan – sadak ke doosri taraf se booking counter tak. Aaj log film posters ke saath selfie le rahe hain, tab studio wale ko bula kar actors ke bade bade cutouts ke saath photos liye jaata thay. Aaj aisa lag raha hai ki woh zamana laut aaya hai."
 
 
  
  
 
  DP Yadav, a retired bank professional, said, "When I saw the police outside Regal, I told my daughter ki jab Raj Kapoor sahab ki filmein pehle lagti thi tab bhi aise hi police hoti thi. I was really surprised to see people dancing in the lobby, singing songs – 'Jeena Yahan Marna Yahan'. Kuch log gale lag kar ro rahe thay. Nostalgia hit us very hard today."
 
 
  
  Delhiites turned up to watch the last two films screened at regal – 'Mera Naam Joker' & 'Sangam' – before the 85-year-old cinema shut down (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
 Regal's staff members tell us that during the theatre's heyday, people were lucky to get tickets to watch a movie there. Something similar happened on its last day. Hundreds of people were unable to get a ticket because they were sold out. Amit Bhatnagar, a staff member at the booking counter, said, "I can't count how people I have had to turn down today."
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  Amit adds, 'Log baar baar keh rahein hain, 'Kuch kar lo, kuch dekh lo.' We have got so many requests for complementary tickets, par kahan se de?"
 
  Another staff member said, "People are asking us, 'Toh kya tickets black mein lein?' I am telling them agar mil rahi hai toh le lo. Aur shayad kuch logon ko mil bhi gayi."
 
   , a corporate employee who came to watch 'Mera Naam Joker' with her mother, said, "It's not just the movie, it's the celebration that we are here for. I bought tickets in black because 'Mera Naam Joker' was the first film my mom saw in Regal. I got to know that today. So I had to buy a Rs80 ticket for Rs300 in black."
 
 
  
  
 
 
  The booking staff members told us that tickets for the box seats were sold out first. Ashish Gupta, a college student, said, "I have heard stories of the India premiere of Gone With The Wind from my grandfather. He used to tell me that Nehru used to attended screenings at Regal and about watching films from the box. So I wanted to watch the movie there, but all tickets were sold out. But in the interval, I went to see the box. It was exactly how he used to describe. I don't know why I never came here before."
 
 
 As 'Mera Naam Joker' ended with a note 'Positively Not The End', Shivanand Sinha, a retired government official who lives in Sector 56 in Gurgaon and had come to watch both the movies with his wife, said, "This is Regal. Yeh madhyantar hai, antraal hai, ant nahin. This cinema hall can't shut down. It was our place during our courtship days. Tab humlog jaante nahin thay ki dating kya hai. Regal used to be our first choice because it was all about class. Back then, Regal was upmarket. Even if the same movie was running in a hall in  , we would come here. To relive those days, the two of us came to watch the movies alone. Humein yaad nahin ki hum dono ne kab akhri baar cinema hall mein ja kar film dekhi thi. I felt like a young boy again, who’d just got his first job, sitting with the college girl who lied to her parents to watch a movie with me." 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  Reena Sharma, a housewife from  , said, "I was in the balcony seat, with those huge fans, and I felt like I had gone back in time. After getting married, Sangam was the first film I watched here with my husband. He passed away five years back, and with Regal closing down, it feels as if the last connect with him is gone. It’s like a personal loss. When I heard that Sangam was the last film to be screened here, I could not stop crying. I told my son you have to buy the tickets for me. My whole family came together to watch this movie with me today."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 In the interval, the stories and tears did not stop, and the moviegoers demanded 'wahi samosa, wahi coffee' as they reminisced. Indrakant Kumar, a 57-year old trader from Faridabad, said, "I used to eat samosa when I used to come here. But when I asked for it at the food counter, they told me it was over. So I bought the coffee. Yeh wali coffee machine bhi kahin nahin dikhti aaj kal. I used to study at The Doon School and when I used to come to Delhi, I would watch movies at Regal. I don't remember how much the tickets were because they were always sponsored by my grandfather. I used to go back to school and tell my friends about it."
 
  Punya Gupta, a 60- year-old retired teacher, said, "My son told me Raj Kapoor sahab ki film lagi hai, bas phir kya tha? I remember not getting tickets for his films a number of times, so I had to come today. Raj Kapoor in Regal is something you can't miss."
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 --With inputs from Divya.Kaushik@timesgroup.com and Riya.Sharma@timesgroup.com
 
