MANALI: Tribals of Lahaul-Spiti, the largest district of Himachal with geographical area of 13,833 sqkm and population of just 31,528, have made it clear that they will vote for the son of the soil who is born in their district and will stay in their district. Most of the population of this tribal district lives in Kullu and the MLAs also prefer staying in Kullu to avoid harsh weather of the district.

 Extreme weather conditions make life very difficult in Lahaul-Spiti. The district, especially Lahaul valley, remains cut off from rest of the world for six months after heavy snowfall. Extreme cold and no road connectivity kill many patients and residents spend time mostly indoors. Generally MLA from Lahaul-Spiti constituency stays in Kullu district. Local residents blame MLA visits the district like a tourist during summer months when greenery returns and flowers bloom. And this is the main selection criteria in this constituency in upcoming assembly elections.
 
 “We want our MLA to live with us in all seasons and feel the pain of the people,”  , resident of Keylong said. He said life is very difficult in Lahaul-Spiti district due to limited connectivity, harsh weather, no medical services and weak infrastructure. “How a leader can fight for his people until he feels the same pain.”
 
 Chhering Lote, resident of Kaza in   believes that Spiti is more backward than Lahaul sub-division and this time MLA should be chosen from his place. “Our life is miserable. We don’t have options to earn our livelihood. Development projects do not reach our valley. We saw our MLA once in a year or two. This time chance should be given to candidate from Spiti,” he said.
 
 A “chaupal” was arranged in Spiti on September 19 where all candidates interested to contest the election were invited to discuss on various issues. “Candidate should be son of the soil” was the main issue of the chaupal. The candidates, who belong to the district and live in constituency, were given priority by the residents. The candidates from both BJP and Congress tried to impress the voters and also spoke against other contestants from their own party. They also raised fingers on properties of some of the senior leaders. The young candidates wooed tribal voters by convincing them that they will live in district round the year and will share their pains and sorrows.
 
 Of the total 22,344 voters, 10,187 had voted for Congress and 6,491 had voted for BJP in 2012 assembly elections. The district has mostly adults and elderly population while children remain out of district for education. According to 2001 census, Lahaul-Spiti had population of 33,224 which reduced to 31,528 n 2011 census. Migration to Kullu and other places for job and education is said to be the main reason behind decrease in population.
 
