PANAJI: In a major   shuffle, the Manohar Parrikar-led government reallocated portfolios of 12 IAS secretaries on Wednesday evening. The move, which came after the swearing-in of the cabinet’s last two ministers, will see chief secretary  , a 1988-batch IAS officer, handling PWD, transport, vigilance, home, personnel and tourism.

 Secretary for IT Ameya Abhyankar, has been relieved as the special secretary to the chief minister but will continue to handle the responsibilities associated with information and technology, finance-budget, directorship of the PPP cell and ESG. Ashok Kumar has been appointed as secretary to the chief minister, with additional charge of director of municipal administration and member secretary of the GSUDA.
 
 According to the order issued by the personnel department, 1991-batch IAS officer and secretary of forests  , will also take charge of the environment, science and technology, mines and geology, education and water resource departments.
 
 Secretary for power,  , will also look after the non-conventional energy, panchayat, rural development and civil aviation portfolios. Goel has further been appointed as the nodal agency to ensure that the state is declared open defecation-free.
 
 Finance secretary Daulat Hawaldar, will continue to handle the finance, art and culture, planning statistics and evaluation departments, has also been tasked with responsibilities associated with social welfare and women and child development.
 
 Secretary of ports Govind Jaiswal has been relieved of a few portfolios, but will continue to look after fisheries, river navigation, craftsman training and skill development.
 
 Health secretary Sudhir Mahajan will hold additional charge of industries, trade and commerce, urban development, revenue and law. 
 
 Former civil supplies secretary B R Singh, will now be TCP secretary, with additional charge of sports and youth affairs, protocol, agriculture and animal husbandry.
 
 While Padma Jaiswal has been appointed secretary for cooperation,   has been relieved of all duties as she is on childcare leave.
 
 
