CHENNAI: On the eve of an anti-corruption  's meet to 'grieve the death of the state government's vigilance and anti-corruption wing', the Chennai city police on Saturday sent a warning note to the group, advising it to desist from instigating the people against the government. 

 The NGO Arappor Iyakkam had started a campaign against the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) a week ago, alleging that it was failing to take action against widespread corruption in the state. It was to culminate with a ' kanneer anjali' (mourning) on Sunday. The group had invited people through social media to take part in the event at their office in  . 
 
 On Saturday night, the Egmore police station delivered a letter to the NGO's office. "Staging such events to incite people against the state and its administration is illegal. Inviting people might also cause a breakdown in law and order. So don't hold such events against the government," the letter signed by the inspector stated. In addition, the letter also warned that the NGO's enemies could barge into the event and create problems.
 
 Arappor went ahead with a press meet at the venue at 5pm and a posse of policemen, including a patrol and riot-control van, was present outside the venue.
 
 The NGO has written back to the Egmore police stating that the state government cannot plead its inability to handle a hostile audience problem, as per a Supreme Court judgement.
 
 “We strongly condemn the police's attempt to stifle our constitutional right to free speech. The tone of their letter is intimidatory. The event was gaining significant attention and traction among the public given the anger against corruption,“ said Jayaram Venkatesan, co-convenor of Arappor Iyakkam.
 
 The group had recently submitted complaints to DVAC alleging corruption by ministers and top police officials.
 
 Referring to recent arrests, Jayaram said the TN police was stifling any attempt of public assembly and expression of opinion.Tamil Nadu has recently witnessed a number of arrests of dissenting voices.
 
 Recently, filmmaker Divya Bharati, who had released a documentary on the life of manual scavengers, was arrested based on a seven-year-old charge.
 
 Activist Thirumurugan Gandhi was arrested under the Goondas Act while leading a candle-light vigil at Marina beach on May 30.
 
 On July 16, Valarmathi, a post-graduate student protesting in Kathiramangalam, was also arrested under the Goondas Act.
 
 The police have the power to detain any person with a pending criminal case under the Goondas Act which activists say makes it easy to clamp down on those who dissent.
 
 Statistics show that the TN police detain at least 3000 people under the Goondas Act every year.
 
 
 
