PATNA: The conviction of former MP   by a   on Thursday in the case of murder of MLA Ashok Singh 22 years ago, has only underlined what an   wrote to the Bihar government in 2005 when he was an MLA: “The honourable legislator (Prabhunath) is a graded criminal.”
 
  Amitabh Kumar Das, a 1994-batch officer who was then the SP of Buxar district, had called a spade a spade in response to a letter from the SP (security) of Special Branch, asking the district SPs to provide additional security to Prabhunath.
  
  “In my reply, I had listed 18 to 19 cases, including six cases of murder, in which Prabhunath had been charge-sheeted,” Das, currently assistant commissioner (civil defence), told TOI on Friday.
  
  According to police sources, the MLA   is in fact one of the 40-odd criminal cases lodged against Prabhunath. Of these, around a dozen cases are in trial stage.
  
  Ashok’s wife Chandni Devi in her FIR lodged at the Secretariat police station in Patna on July 3, 1995 said Prabhunath, his brother Dinanath Singh and a couple of others were watching the murder from a stone’s throw away. They later drove away in a car being driven by Prabhunath, the FIR said.
  
  Prabhunath, who won the Masrakh assembly seat in 1985 and 1990, had just lost the 1995 election to Ashok. The convicted politico has in the past boasted of his proximity with former PM Chandrashekhar as well as RJD chief Lalu Prasad and chief minister Nitish Kumar.
  
  He was initially with the JD (U) and crossed over to the RJD in 2010 after he lost the election from Maharjganj assembly constituency in 2009.
  
  Former state chief secretary V S Dubey said such netas with criminal antecedents spoil the governance. “I remember the then health commissioner, T CA Srinivasa Ramanujam, having been heckled and assaulted in his office by the then Janata Dal MP Ram Sharan Yadav and his gun-toting goons. I was also threatened and verbally abused when I initiated action in the fodder scam. The worst sufferers are the darogas (police inspectors) and junior engineers, who are at times even tied to trees and beaten with sticks and bamboos by such bahubalis,” rued the retired IAS official.
  
  Bihar watcher D M Diwakar said criminalisation of politics in Bihar got momentum after the 1970s. “Bahubalis, who used to work for tainted politicians, started joining active politics. This led to criminalisation of politics in Bihar and the situation now has come to such a pass that there are more tainted politicians than clean ones,” said the academic who teaches economics at A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies.
