PATNA: The ongoing   celebrations at Gandhi Maidan reached its peak on Tuesday with electrifying Sikh martial art performances, popularly known as ‘Gatka’, by around a hundred young Sikh students from  , Haryana, Delhi and Nagpur. While they waved their weapons high in the air, swung and swirled them and performed aerobics, the audience raised ‘Jo bole so nihal, sat sri akal’ slogans.

 Around 2 in the afternoon, hundreds of people sat on either side of the ‘Gatka’ area as different teams started gearing up for the competition. Clad in traditional apparels of ‘Nihangs’ — Sikh warriors — the ‘Gatka’ students carried weapons like ‘kirpan’, ‘bhala’ (spear), ‘khanda’ (double-edged sword), arrow and ‘dhaal’ (shield) with themselves.
 
 The sound of bagpipes rent the air around 2.40pm when at least 30 personnel of the Sikh, Punjab and Bihar regiment centres, wearing red and black apparels with shawls, started playing welcome tunes prior to the commencement of the competition.
 
 “We play mostly in official programmes of the government, including parades on the occasion of Republic Day and Independence Day. However, we have come to Patna to play at this ‘Gatka’ event to offer prayers to Guru Gobind Singh,” said Naik Subedar Varinder Singh of the Sikh regiment centre.
 
 The mike was soon taken over by the moderator who explained the game rules to the audience both in Punjabi and Hindi. “Each of the 11 teams will be given 15 minutes to exhibit their ‘Gatka’ skills, followed by a fight of three minutes with another team,” he said. 
 
 The game began with Ranjeet   Academy’s scintillating performance. The youngest player, who was only nine years old, used a wooden sword amid Punjabi songs blaring from loudspeakers. While all 10 players in each team showcased their skills in the exhibition games, only three players from each team fought in the fighting games. 
 
 “Our team has 13 members, who participated in 24 tournaments across the country last year and reached the finals in 23 of them. Coming to Patna to perform during the 350th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Gobind Singh is a blessing,” said Gur Pratap Singh, captain of Sri Guru   from Nagpur.
 
 ‘Gatka’ was made compulsory for everyone for self-defence by tenth Sikh Guru Gobind Singh. “Our academy was set up 50 years ago and I have been practising the martial art for 30 years. ‘Gatka’ is not a game, but a way of worship for us. We are blessed that we performed at ‘Guru ki nagri’ on the auspicious occasion of Prakashotsava,” said   from Hargobind Ajit Gatka Akhara International Budha Dal, Delhi.
 
 
