HYDERABAD: With junior doctors boycotting outpatient and elective duties for the second day on Thursday , healthcare services at the staterun   were disrupted for the better part of the day before the strike was called off late afternoon.

 The stir caused inconvenience to patients who, unaware of the situation at the hospital, had travelled long distances to come to the hospital for treatment.
 
 While hospital authorities did not turn away patients, many were forced to leave after waiting for hours to see a doctor.
 
 Among those who had to return without medical at tention was a one-year-old kid suffering from fits. The child's mother   had rushed him to the hospital around 8 am but was not able to meet the doctor even at 12 noon.
 
 “My son is being treated at Gandhi Hospital for neurological problems for a whi le now. Yesterday, we got the MRI scan and other tests done after a long wait but today there is no doctor around to check him. He is unable to even move,“ said the mother.
 
 There were many like Saeeda Begum and her son who had to wait for long hours at the hospital as they could not afford to repeat the ongoing treatment elsewhere but had to go back disappointed.
 
 “We brought our mother here because she has been suffering from fever and cold. We started from Begumpet at around 7.30 am to reach here in time but there are no doctors. We are still waiting as we don't where to go next,“ said  , who had brought her mother for treatment.
 
 While most of the wards were manned by a single senior doctor up to 4 pm on Thursday , the situation improved after 4 pm as the junior doctors decided to call off the strike.
 
 The junior doctors also held a second round of discussions with state health minister C   on Thursday afternoon, after the first meeting on Wednesday evening, before deciding to call off the strike.
 
 “The state health minister assured us that our demands will be met. We have demanded the special protection force (SPF) cover to be increased at the hospital. Also, we asked for SPF to conduct active surveillance in the hospital instead of remaining stationed at the check post. During most of the attacks, the SPF personnel took around 15-20 minutes to reach the spot but by then the assaulters had already thrashed the doctors,“ said Dr Kiran Rathore, president, Junior Doctors Association, Gandhi Medical College.
 
