BEIJING: An exchange of land with the politically and strategically sensitive   tract in   being ceded by India could pave the way for a settlement of the India-China boundary dispute, China's former pointsman for India Dai Bingguo has said. The suggestion came in an interview given by the former Chinese diplomat and high-ranking communist cadre to a Beijing-based publication. Dai headed the special representative dialogue with India for over a decade until his retirement in 2013.

 Though the exchange of Tawang is far from being a simple affair given the presence of the Tawang monastery, which commands a special place in Tibetan Buddhism and is highly regarded by Buddhists in India as well, Dai's remarks are significant as they may not be completely without official sanction. Dai is still regarded close to Chinese rulers, and his voice is taken seriously in the diplomatic community. He is unlikely to make sensitive comments in an interview unless it has been cleared by top leaders of the  , sources said.
 
 "The major reason the boundary question persists is that China's reasonable requests have not been met," Dai said in the interview, adding, "If the Indian side takes care of China's concerns on the eastern section of the border, the Chinese side will respond accordingly and address India's concerns elsewhere."
 
 Dai Bingguo has written on similar lines in his book which came out last year. China analyst Shrikant Kondapalli said the Chinese interest in the eastern sector had been elevated since 2005, when both countries signed the Political Parameters and Guiding Principles. China has eyed the Tawang tract, describing it as Southern Tibet, because the 15th century Dalai Lama was born there. Interestingly, China withdrew from that area after the 1962 war with India. Control of Tawang will consolidate China's hold over the centres of Tibetan Buddhism.
 
 "For India, such an exchange is not possible.   Pradesh is an integral part of the country, so its beyond any concession. During Manmohan Singh's tenure, the two countries had decided to leave out the populated areas. But China has asked for some territorial concession in the unpopulated areas near the MacMahon line."
 
 In exchange, Kondapalli said, China offered to move back 100 km in the Aksai Chin plateau in the western sector, creating a demilitarized zone. India had objected, saying the topography of the area was such that it would be very difficult for India to recapture the heights while it would be very easy for China to do so. In the discussions, China refused to give any assurances on that front.
 
 In any case this "exchange" by itself is blatantly unfair to India's interests, and therefore unlikely to get any traction in this country. 
 His statement indicates that China is ready to make concessions in areas like Aksai Chin in western sector if India is ready to give away a portion of Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh in the eastern border. He also said "Indian side holds the key" to a reasonable settlement of the border dispute.
 
 "The disputed territory in the eastern sector of the China-India boundary, including Tawang, is inalienable from China's Tibet in terms of cultural background and administrative jurisdiction," Dai said in the interview with the state-run China-India Dialogue magazine. "In fact, not until February 1951 was the local government of Tibet forced to stop its actual administration of Tawang".
 
 China has laid claim to entire Arunachal Pradesh but it is particulary keen about Tawang because it is the birthplace of the 6th Dalai Lama and an important religious site for Tibetan Buddhist. India has not conceded China's claims to any part of Arunachal Pradesh. China's claim is also weak because the two countries had earlier decided that there will be no exchange of heavily populated areas.
 
 The Modi government has intensified   building in Arunachal Pradesh, which is now being represented by minister of state for home affairs, Kiren Rijuju in the central government. India is not just responding to military linked infrastructure development by China on the Tibetan side of the border but also making sure that the area is never conceded to China, observers said.
 
