MANGALURU: “My friend wanted a house for rent in  . I asked him which area he would prefer. He said any area without malaria." This limerick by the King of  , H Dundiraj, subtly conveys the message along with humor about the concern outsiders have regarding the malariaendemic region.

 Limericks have remained popular over the years and they can often be funny or bawdy. But there is nothing loud about Dundiraj's limericks. It has the knack of making one think, and at the same time, helps one break into a smile.Dundiraj has written over 3,200 limericks and is still going strong. Born in   in   taluk of Udupi district in 1956, Dundiraj is a gold medallist in MSc Agriculture. In an interview to TOI, he talks about his transformation from children's literature to limericks.
 
 
 
 
 My first 'chutuku' collection was published in the year 1985. I entered the world of limericks somewhere in the 1980s, till then I used to write children's poems. My writing started in 1975 when I was in college. It was my teachers who got me interested in children's literature. When I came to Bengaluru to do my PU, the college newsletters used to be handwritten. I would write on them. At home, my brother was a voracious reader and we had lots of books.
 
 
 
 
 Limericks is a form of literature. When I wrote for the   movement, my poetry used to be serious in nature. It never drew much public response. Once I happened to add a humorous touch to one of my poems and that clicked. Thus began my journey into limericks. On the subject of limericks itself I had written a poem: “Hasya kavana odidaaga nagisidakke chappale. Gambhira kavana odidaaga mugisdakke chappale.(Humorous poems get applause for making one laugh. Serious poetry gets applause for finishing it).
 
 
 
 
 I joined the bank as an agricultural officer and it helped me. If I had joined as a teacher, I wouldn't have had the opportunity to go places, meet new people and enrich my experiences.
 
 
 
 
 Some politicians are mature enough. But many have not reacted. Either they enjoy and don't say anything or they are too thickskinned to react. But I heard from a confidant of J H Patel that he liked my limericks. Your work is similar to that of a cartoonist...In a way, yes. We react to situations. Both need lateral and out-of-the-box thinking. Cartoonists express through lines, we use words. 
 
 
 
 
 I retired on August 31last year as  . I had decided that I want to devote the rest of my time to only literature. I have to read a lot of books. I also make time to attend literary functions. Post-retirement I have invested in this and in my family with whom I could not spend time earlier.
 
