PATNA: The adage ‘politics makes strange bedfellows’ fits former Bihar minister Shivanand Tiwari. The man who was one of the three petitioners in the   court seeking CBI probe leading to the investigation into over Rs900 crore  , has termed the   order an ‘influenced judgment’ against RJD chief and then Bihar CM Lalu Prasad, who is already convicted in a related case. “Lalu is being made a victim for his strong stand against BJP. I feel the judgment is influenced by those in power,” Tiwari said on Tuesday.
 
  The Supreme Court on Monday quashed the 2014 Jharkhand high court ruling and ordered separate trial against Lalu in each case related to the 1996 scam. Tiwari, who was then with Samata Party, along with Sushil Kumar Modi and Saryu Rai of the BJP, had filed the first petition in the high court seeking CBI probe into the scam.
  
  When asked why had he petitioned against Lalu, who according to him stands for social justice, Tiwari said, “Samata Party leader George Fernandes wanted to pin down Lalu through legal battle as he had a huge support base in Bihar in the mid 1990s. When a senior Samata Party leader and now a Lalu ally refused to sign the petition as desired by George saheb, I was sent by aeroplane from Delhi to sign it. It was the party leadership call and I abided by it without any personal reason,” said Tiwari, whose son is an RJD MLA.
  
  “No one is spotless. There is an element of grey in every one,” he said without giving any character certificate to Lalu.
  
  Saryu Rai, who is a minister in Jharkhand government and a close friend of Lalu, is happy with the judgement. “It is true that a couple of days back I met Lalu as he was not well. But it does not mean I support him. The Supreme Court judgment is a victory of the crusade against corruption. We hope Lalu he will be convicted in the remaining cases as well,” Rai said.
  
  Lalu, who was sentenced to five years in jail for fraudulent withdrawal of around Rs37 crore from Chaibasa treasury in a fodder scam case on September 30, 2013, is on bail.
  
  A close aide of Bihar CM  , Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh had filed the second petition just after Modi, Tiwari and Rai in the high court seeking   He, however, did not respond to TOI call for his reaction. Sources close to Singh said he was avoiding question on fodder scam because of ‘coalition dharma’ as his party JD(U) is a partner with RJD and Congress in the grand alliance government in Bihar.
