PATNA: Leader of opposition in   legislative council   on Thursday refused to apologise to RJD chief Lalu Prasad, who said on Wednesday he would file a defamation suit against him for making false allegations against his family.

 Modi had on Tuesday alleged that  , who was earlier with RJD and is currently BJP MP from Sheohar, gifted 13.12 acres of land at   to Lalu’s son Tej when he was 44 months old in 1992. Lalu, however, claimed on Wednesday the gift deed was cancelled in June 1993 and that it did not have the consent of Tej or family.
 
 Modi on Thursday reiterated that the Lalu family got gifts of land from eight different people, including former Union ministers, in lieu of RJD’s election tickets and ministerial berths arranged by the RJD president. Lalu has so far refuted only the allegation involving Rama Devi’s gift.
 
 “I am not scared of Lalu’s threat,” Modi said, admitting he was not aware of the current ownership status of Rama Devi’s land while making the allegation on Tuesday.
 
 “The land gifted by Rama Devi was a ‘chaur’ (wetland). It sells cheap. Is it because Lalu did not like the cheap land that he returned it even while retaining other plots of land gifted to his family by other people?” Modi asked and dared Lalu to get cancelled the deeds of all lands gifted to his family.
 
 The senior BJP functionary has held a series of press conferences since April to “expose the benami properties and financial irregularities committed by Lalu and his family”. He earlier alleged Lalu got former Union minister  's plot in Gopalganj registered in the name of his sons, Tej and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav.
 
 Modi also alleged former Union heavy industries minister   transferred her land in Patna to Lalu’s wife and former Bihar CM Rabri Devi in 2006.
 
 Modi also released names of non-politician individuals like Lalan Choudhary who worked in Lalu’s cowshed, Hridayanand Choudhary who worked as railway gangman and one Subhash Choudhary, who allegedly gifted land to Lalu family.
 
 
