PATNA: Frosty winds blowing from northern states of Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh plunged the minimum temperature in   to 5.6 degrees Celsius, the lowest in the state capital this season. Dehri-on-Sone was the coldest place in Bihar on Thursday at 5.5 degrees C while Gaya shivered at 6.7 degrees Celsius.

 The local Met office has ruled out any respite from the bone-chilling weather conditions for the next few days as the minimum temperature is expected to hover around 5 degrees C till January 16.
 
 “The average wind speed is around 4 to 6 kmph, which is normal during this period of the year. However, a winter day with strong winds can be colder, though the temperature may be exactly the same. The greater the wind speed, the faster we lose body heat, making us feel colder,” said a senior weatherman at Patna meteorological centre.
 
 Weathermen claimed that cold westerly winds cleared moisture from the lower level of atmosphere, resulting in lifting of the radiation from the earth surface. It is due to the clearance of moisture from lower level of atmosphere that bright and clear skies are being observed during daytime, but temperature falls sharply in late noon.
 
 “Moisture in the lower level of atmosphere helps retain solar radiations that reach the earth surface. However, the absence of moisture leads to sharp lifting of the radiation from the surface to the upper layer of the atmosphere. This leads to cooling of the lower level of atmosphere, from around 2:30pm, and reaches very low levels by the next morning when the minimum temperature is recorded,” said a senior weatherman.
 
 Though the minimum temperature plunged to 5.6 degree C in Patna, the Met office neither declared cold wave nor issued any warning for the same. “Though there is a sudden drop in temperature, the overall meteorological conditions do not satisfy the criteria for declaring cold wave,” he said.
 
 One of the meteorological conditions for declaring cold wave states that the normal minimum temperature should be 10 degrees Celsius or below and the departure of actual temperature from the same is in the range of 5-6 notches.
 
 Private weather agency Skymet, however, issued a forecast of cold wave conditions in many parts of Bihar on January 13 and 14. The private weather forecaster has predicted shallow to moderate fog after January 15.
 
 Meanwhile, meteorologists are expecting the weather to turn even worse as a western disturbance is expected to hit northern states around January 16. Western disturbances are low-pressure areas or extratropical storms originating from  ,   and Caspian Sea, which cause winter rainfall in northwest Indian subcontinent.
 
 
