The last time the city’s atmosphere was this charged was when   visited  . And even then, it was a mature fandom that they evoked. This time, however, it is a shrieking, howling, fangirling-till-hoarse kind of atmosphere. And the young boy who is causing this craze among the country’s youngsters is just 23 years old. With a day left for   to touch down in India, here’s how the popstar’s fans are gearing up for the concert.

 
 
 Fans are finding new ways of proving their allegiance to the #JBArmy in the city. While some are painting the singer’s portraits, others are sharing videos of themselves making covers of his popular numbers. Jervis Dias, a 19-year-old Belieber, has gone a step further and got a haircut akin to Bieber’s. “I am Bieber’s biggest fan and I have forever dreamt of seeing him perform live. Now I have a chance, but I cannot go, because my exams are on! So, I changed my hairstyle to look like   as a tribute to him. This is my way of compensating for not being able to attend the concert,” rues Jervis. 
 
 
 
 There’s a whole bunch of youngsters who are willing to go to any length to attend this concert. Take Sanika Abhyankar, who recently appeared for her board exams. You’d think she must be relaxing, but that’s not the case. Sanika is doing everything in her power to convince her mother to get her a ticket to this concert. “It’s a once in a lifetime opportunity for me. she says. I have been urging mumma to get me the tickets for so long, but all she says is, ‘We’ll see’. I have been doing all the household chores without complaining too! Can you maybe ask her to get me a ticket, please?” Sanika begs of us! We have half a heart to tell her ‘Despasito’, but this is not a girl who ‘takes it slow’, especially when it comes to her idol!
 For 15-year-old Tania Bondre, it’s a do-or-die situation. She has spent all her savings to buy a `5,000 ticket just to see her idol live. Tania’s mother, Shivali Sood, informs, “I refused to buy her a ticket and so she spent all of her savings to buy one for herself. Now, I can’t even stop her from going.” However, she totally understands her daughter’s craze, and had even thrown her a Bieber-themed party for her last birthday. “It was a complete surprise for me,” recalls Tania, “I was shrieking when I saw the cake with Justin’s picture on it. She even made arrangements to give away bags with Justin’s picture to my friends.” Tania, who will be going to the concert with a couple of her friends, says her favourite Bieber numbers are Sorry, Get used to it and Children.
 
 
 
 
 Then there are those young fans, who have successfully converted their mothers into fangirls too. Twelve-year-old Sumati Verma proudly proclaims that she is taking her mum, Nita, along with her to the concert. “My mum is also a Bieber fan, but not a bigger one than me. So, I decided to go with her,” she said. When asked about her favourite Bieber song, like a true fangirl she giggled and said, “I love all of them.” It therefore doesn’t come as a surprise to us that she purchased a   tee, especially for the special occasion!
 
 
 
 It’s not difficult to see why entrepreneurs are cashing in on this fan frenzy to further their businesses. Wherever you go, you’ll find Justin Bieber merchandise all over the place. From brands to boutique shops, tees, caps, shoes and phone cases featuring JB, every merchandise is luring youngsters into showing their love. Says Dheeraj Heliya, who recognised the potential of the purpose tour, “We have sold around 35 to 40 tees in the last week, and most are college students. They are planning to wear these to the concert.” In fact, he is also planning to give away a few of these tee shirts as prizes for an online contest that he reckons will help in his publicity. On the other hand, entrepreneurs like Ram Gidde, who is the managing partner in an online gifting store, are planning to go beyond. “We just launched the Bieber tees yesterday and we are expecting a huge sale as this guy has crazy fans. We will also be doing some on-ground sale on the day of the concert at the stadium, and we are expecting a windfall,” says Gidde.
 
 
