Shimla: Chaupals organized by khap panchayats in Haryana remain in news most of the time. However, this time, a “chaupal” is being held in Spiti for candidates eyeing party tickets so that they can reveal their developmental plan before they start knocking on the door of the voters.

 A group of youths under the banner of ‘Spiti Civil Society’ is organizing a first-of- its-kind chaupal in Spiti valley of tribal Lahaul-Spiti district on September 19. In fact, this is the first time a chaupal is being organized in Himachal Pradesh.
 
 This initiative has already created enough buzz on social media and people from other parts of this remote district also want to organize chaupal in their areas too. Already six candidates vying for BJP and Congress tickets have agreed to attend the “chaupal”.
 
 “The event is being organized to ensure that meaningful issues are discussed. Also, people should know about the candidates aspiring to become MLA from Lahaul-Spiti. We have invited the pradhans of all 13 panchayats of Spiti subdivision besides the mahila mandals and yuvak mandals of these panchayats at the chaupal,” said president of Spiti Civil Society Takpa Tenzin.
 
 He said that in the past candidates used to come to seek votes and did not tell voters what they would do for the valley after winning the election. Tenzin said Spiti lacks good transportation facilities. “But now those seeking our votes would have to tell what kind of development work they want to do and why should we vote for them,” he added.
 
 Society’s vice-president Sonam Targay said that during winter, Spiti residents suffer because they also don’t have proper specialist doctors available here.
 
 He said that last winter a patient from Hansa village had died due to excessive bleeding. He said that non-availability of helicopter service is another major issue in Spiti while in Lahaul valley, the state government ensures regular flights during the entire winter season.
 
 Targay also informed that ultrasound facility is also not available at Kaza, the headquarters of Spiti sub-division. He said that if a pregnant woman needs to undergo ultrasound examination, then she has to travel either to Rampur or Shimla to get it done. “Now before seeking our votes the aspiring candidates will have to tell us what they will do and what plan to do if we elect them,” he added.
 
 Spiti-based educationist Chhering Dorje said that there is a stark contrast in the condition of roads at Grapmhu, from where one road leads towards Lahaul and another connects Spiti. “This is enough to show how the candidates after winning the election treat the people of Spiti. There is metalled road, which leads to Lahaul. But the one leading towards Spiti is in pathetic condition,” Dorje said.
 
 “It is extremely important to fight for our fundamental right to get the proper infrastructure which Spiti lacks. If your organization is not linked with any political parties then you have my full support,” said Spiti’s spiritual leader Lochen Tulku Rinpoche on the Facebook page of the society.
 
 
