HYDERABAD: People using   in the city are most at risk of   compared to those using other vehicles, says an international research study .Almost six out of every 10 road accident injuries in the city involves a  .The mortality rate is also high among two-wheeler riders with five out of 10 accident victims  .
The study revealed that a majority of the victims of road accidents are young with the mean age being 32.4 years.This, means two-wheeler riders, succumbing to injuries in Hyderabad, die even before they reach the half way mark of the average lifespan of Indians, which is around 67 years for men.
 
 Researchers from Johns Hopkins International Injury Research Unit of Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, US; Indian Institute of Public Health, Hyderabad; and the Department of Epidemiology , WHO Collaborating Centre for Injury Prevention and Safety Promotion, NIMHNS, Bangalore, studied accident victims in Hyderabad over nine months.The findings were published in the latest issue of the scientific journal, Surgery.
 
 The researchers found out that 58.2%of road accidents in Hyderabad involve two-wheeler riders. The mortality rate is as high as 48.2%. They studied as many as 5,298 road acci dent victims. Of the accident victims, 87.3% were men.
 
 The most frequent type of accident was recorded as skid or rollover. This is contrary to the popular belief that collision is the leading cause of road mishaps in the city . The study calls for a serious road safety intervention to reduce twowheeler accidents.
 
 “The most frequent collision type was skid or rollover making up 40.9% of cases. Male victims were younger than female victims and were overrepresented among motorized two-wheeler users,“ the study revealed, adding that the mishaps occurred mostly between 4pm and midnight. “ A total of 27.3% of patients were admitted. Hospital mortality was 5.3%,“ the study pointed out.
 
 “Road traffic injuries kill more people in India than in any other country ,“ the study said, adding that the number of road mishaps is increasing over the years as the population goes up. They also linked the road mishaps to the density of population and increa sing motorization.
 
 Stating that official statistics on road accidents are likely to be under-reported, the researchers said that their study was based on the results of a surveillance programme.They interviewed patients and others, besides obtaining data from clinical records of a tertiary hospital in the city. If two-wheeler riders make the largest chunk of accident victims, pedestrians come next.Pedestrians make up 22.5%of road injuries. Only 9.2% of road mishaps involve autos.
 
