SEKTA (IMPHAL EAST):   is peeling pomegranate when we arrive. Even in normal times tackling the fruit is quite a task, he's doing it with the resigned patience of someone who doesn't have choice. If he wished he were elsewhere, he is not showing it. Home does this to even the most tempestuous of characters.

 Once Dingko was one. The anger-as-an-awesome-weapon-wielding Asian Games   gold-medal winner who arrived as a whirlwind in the mid-1990s and was, just as swiftly , relegated to an afterthought. The catchy name had some recall but no one really complained once he slipped away from our fleeting consciousness. If somebody at all missed him, it was in across the country's few   boxing training, where every hopeful thereafter was told to train to be like Dingko and imbibe his technique, perhaps not so much his head.
 
 A framed citation of a   hangs forlornly on the outside wall of his village home. Reflected on the glass is the image of a slight, bent man in the courtyard and it merges with the photograph behind it, of a handsome young man in Naval uniform receiving the award. Who is the real Dingko Singh, the then or the now?
 
 The now is an impostor, trapped in that once-awesome body, when the chest was puffed out and the nose forever high in the air, looking larger than his lithe bantamweight five-foot-something frame.
 
 It is only later that you realise that you have seldom seen Dingko bare-handed before, not strapped in tape and bound in by gloves. These are commonplace, everyday hands today . When you are forced to panic-sell your flat to meet your medical expenses, your existence becomes ordinary . Cancer is fast becoming so commonplace, like someone said, it's losing its gravitas. Dingko is a common person today . He's now just a shade over 60 kg, having lost 25 kg during the course of his illness. “I don't like it,“ he says to himself. In his prime, he was a sharp 54 kg, but that's another story .
 
 His wife of over a decadeand-a-half, still has a bit of a fan-girl about her. “`Don't take off your shirt before the mir ror these days,' I tell him,“ Ngangom Babai half-laments, half-giggles. “It is torture to see him half his size. Even years after he had retired, he had this terrific physique,“ she says.
 
 In a sense, his cancer -he underwent his third round of chemotherapy in Imphal last week after surgery in the Capital last January also exhumes the man and his legend and only adds to the twisted irony of the whole thing.
 
 Back then, Dingko's immediate appeal lay in his being a hero by his own rules. Aggression was a rare virtue in Indian sport, even frowned upon and far from being immensely marketable as it is today . And here was this strange phenomenon scripting it as he felt fit.“Street fighter tha. Rare quality hota hai. Mary Kom too had that. Maybe extreme adversity makes you that,“ says Ibomcha Singh, Manipur boxing's Masters Oogway and Shifu rolled into one, who gently moulded Dingko into channelizing his inner rage. Ibomcha is alluding to the extreme poverty Dingko saw as a child, being sent to an orphanage as as adolescent because his widowed mother couldn't afford to feed eight mouths.
 
 
