HOOGHLY: The carcass of a Ganges river  , considered   by the   (IUCN), was found floating near   adjacent to Chandernagore Urdi Bazar on Friday morning. Locals, who were taking bath at the ghat, brought the greyish brown dolphin, locally known as Susu or Susuk, to the shore. Preliminary probe revealed that severe head injury caused death of the six-feet dolphin, also recognized as the national aquatic animal.

 Because of regular movement of motorized boats, Ganges river dolphin is rarely seen in this region. It can be seen in the stretch of the Hooghly around Balagarh and near Raichak (South 24-Parganas). 
 
 Immediately, the rescuers informed police. Officer in charge of Chandernagore police station, Swapan Singha Thakur, came rushing to the spot. He took custody of the dolphin carcass and informed the forest department. The forest ranger also reached the spot and took away the carcass.
 
 DFO Howrah and Hooghly, Niranjana Mitra, said, “This is a Ganges river dolphin generally found in the Hooghly and Brahmaputra. We have sent the carcass for post-mortem to ascertain the cause of death.” Earlier in December 2015, a dead dolphin was found in Hooghly’s Telinipara Ghat.
 
 The Ganges River dolphin or Susu lives in one of the most densely populated regions of the world. One of the main threats to the species is loss of habitat due to the creation of dams and irrigation projects, said a wildlife expert.
 
 Alterations to the river due to barrages are also separating populations. A recent survey conducted by WWF-India and its partners in the entire distribution range in the Ganges and Brahamaputra river system — around 6,000 km — has identified fewer than 2,000 individuals in India.
 
 This dolphin is among the four “obligate” freshwater dolphins — the other three are the ‘baiji’ now likely extinct from the Yangtze river in China, the ‘bhulan’ of the Indus in Pakistan and the ‘boto’ of the Amazon river in Latin America. Though there are several species of marine dolphins whose ranges include some freshwater habitats, these four species live only in rivers and lakes.
 
 
