New Delhi: In view of the upcoming civic elections,   leaders from the   on Saturday highlighted their “achievements” in the past five years.

 While the civic body has been facing an acute financial shortage after the trifurcation of the erstwhile MCD, senior leaders claimed to have done a better job in providing basic amenities to the public.
 
 “We have been facing a major financial crisis but despite all the hurdles, we have managed to provide our services to the public. The matter of landfill site has always been a major issue. Last month, we inaugurated a waste-to-energy plant, which will help in resolving the problem,” said mayor Sanjeev Nayyar.
 
 He claimed the north   was effectively dealing with the stray dog menace as well. “Earlier, about 100 stray dogs were sterilised every month, and now we have the capacity to sterilise 500 of them per day. We will increase this to 1,000 dogs per day once new sterilisation centres come up,” added Nayyar.
 
 He said there are six major hospitals and a medical college under the north civic body, which are running smoothly, apart from dispensaries, polyclinics and other public healthcare units.
 
 “Many cases of dengue and chikungunya cases were reported. There is a need to conduct an inquiry into this as the situation was not as alarming as it was made out to be,” he said.
 
 However, senior corporation leaders slammed the AAP government for all the hurdles that came in their way. Standing committee chairman Parvesh Wahi claimed that the Rani Jhansi grade separator is not yet complete due to the “delay” on the part of the Delhi government in shifting utilities.
 
 Wahi further said, “The Delhi government has paralysed our functioning by not implementing the Fourth Delhi Finance Commission’s report. We were unable to pay salaries on time. But despite their non-cooperation, the north civic body has managed to provide services to the people. We developed new classrooms, created 10 railway underpasses and constructed roads.”
 
