Nagpur: Even as excessive use of   is ringing alarm bells among water experts, MSEDCL is sanctioning agricultural pump connections in the affected areas unmindful of this fact. It has also increased the duration of three-phase power supply from eight hours to 12 hours a day.

 Data collected by Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) shows groundwater use in nine districts of the state had reached semi-critical levels. The affected districts are Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Jalgaon, Latur, Osmanabad, Pune, Sangli, Satara and Solapur. 
 
 “Any area where more than 70% groundwater is being used is included in semi-critical zone. The areas where more than 90% is used are classified as critical zones. The nine districts were classified as semi-critical on the basis of 2011 data. The 2013 data is yet to be approved by the central government but the average use in Maharashtra has increased by 3%. It is likely that the situation has worsened in many of the nine districts,” a CGWB official told TOI on condition of anonymity.
 
 The official further said that the state government should restrict use of groundwater in semi-critical districts. “In the long term interest of these areas, it should stop energizing new agricultural pumps and not sanction any fresh activity that requires a lot of groundwater,” he added.
 
 Commenting on Jalyukta Shivar, which is supposed to recharge groundwater sources, the official said that it could work only to a certain extent. “Unless demand side management is implemented, the future is bleak,” he added.
 
 MSEDCL data shows that sanctioning of new agriculture pumps connections has not stopped in semi-critical districts. Up to January 2017, MSEDCL had provided thousands of new connections in these districts. The district-wise figures are; Ahmednagar (2,511), Jalgaon (1,706), Pune (8,150), Satara (4,865), Solapur (3,888), Sangli (7,485), Aurangabad (2,394), Osmanabad (1,038) and Latur (2,358).
 
 Commenting on this practice, a MSEDCL official said that the company on its own cannot stop providing new connections to any consumer. “It is for the state government to take any such decision,” he added.
 
 Some opposition members seem to be realizing the danger. Former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan has been opposing MSEDCL’s solar agricultural pump policy on the grounds that it will deplete groundwater level. 
 
 
