COIMBATORE: The southern bench of the   on Friday ordered the Coimbatore Corporation to implement   in all the 100 wards within 10 days. 

 The bench comprising judicial member Nambiar and expert member P S Rao passed the order while hearing a petition filed by activists and politicians in 2013 seeking to shift the Vellalore dump yard as it causes health hazards to people living in the surrounding areas.
 
 In April, the bench passed an interim order directing the corporation to submit a detailed action report within three months on source segregation, disposal of old waste using scientific methods and the implementation of a new solid waste management plant to treat additional waste generated in the corporation limits. The bench also directed the corporation to consult with the   for the preparation of the report. But the report submitted by the corporation on Friday only detailed about the projects it plans to implement in future. 
 
 V Easwaran of MDMK, one of the petitioners, said: “The corporation officials have submitted a letter that was addressed to the commissioner of municipal administration by the Coimbatore corporation commissioner in which they have detailed that bins and push carts will be purchased at an estimated cost of Rs15.71 crore. But there is no timeline of when and how they plan to implement it. Also, there was no consultation with TNPCB on the matter. About the new plant also a similar letter addressed to   was produced in which they said Rs 11.5 crore will be spent on setting up a new plant.” 
 
 On the 19 lakh tonnes (15 lakh cubic metre) of old waste dumped at the corporation dump yard, the civic body has not given details on how they would comply with TNPCB norms. The corporation has not consulted with TNPCB, which is also a respondent in the case. 
 
 When contacted, a corporation official said that they will follow the court orders. “We have already begun implementing 100% source segregation in many wards. We were planning to scale it up slowly. Several projects such as collecting dry waste on Wednesdays have also been already implemented. We will implement it and submit a report,” said the official. 
 
 Expressing that they were not satisfied with the detailed action report submitted by the corporation, the judges posted the next hearing on August 24. 
 
