PANCHKULA: There is an epidemic of houseflies in Raipurrani and Barwala, all thanks to the large number of   in these rural towns, said residents who attended a TOI roundtable dedicated to highlight, and finding possible solutions to, the problems of   and Amravati Enclave on Sunday .Though 10 poultry farms were issued closure notices for not following guidelines issued by the administration and pollution control board (PCB), there is no respite from the problem. Shivalik Vikas Manch president Vijay Bansal requested pollution board officials to inspect all poultry farms regularly . “The administration needs to take strict action against these poultry farms,“ said Bansal.

 The regional officer of pollution control board, Vinay Gautam, informed residents that there was no lack of action from their side. “We follow procedure take legal action as soon as the local administration gives us directions. Poultry owners have been asked to follow a list of procedures issued by the animal husbandry department for keeping houseflies under check. Strict action will be taken against those violating the law,“ he said.
 
 On April 18, 2016, the then Haryana principal secretary and   chairperson,  , organized meetings with poultry owners and asked them to follow guidelines. During inspections at that time, poultry farms were found not complying with guide lines and six of them were issued closure notices.
 
 On March 31 this year, previous deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar wrote a letter to the additional chief secretary of the state's animal husbandry department for possible solutions to the housefly menace.
 
 Panchkula district administration officials said they met poultry owners regularly and sensitized them about steps to be taken for sanitation and curbing the menace of houseflies. Kalka SDM   said poultries could reduce the menace by way of using medicines and modifying their work practices, but this required research and specialized inputs from a professional agency .
 
 
 
 
 As per the district administration and a letter written by Brar, there are 122 poultry farms are located in Barwala and Raipur Rani block of the district.Houseflies have been a menace in the area for long, and mosquitoes happen to be a problem too.
 
