VISAKHAPATNAM: With the mission to spread awareness about  , applying simple resource conservation techniques in day to day life and promoting  , Lokesh Parakh (27), a young man from Jodhpur is on an  . On Sunday, he was in Vizag to raise awareness.

 A chartered accountant, Lokesh quit his job in Mumbai after five years and started working on JSS ( ) project, which is carrying out their awareness generating activities in Indian cities and has around 100 team members besides 11 founder members across India.
 
 “We are highlighting the importance of preserving family culture, joint family structure, using Make in India and eco-friendly products. There are simple ways to minimise loss of water and electricity, which can be practised at home itself,” said Lokesh.
 
 Around 35 charts and models done by school children were also displayed through which Lokesh explained various eco-friendly and resource conserving measures.
 
 “Daily almost every usual household spends 20 litres of water for washing clothes. Several litres of water are used in washing kitchen utensils and for household chores. Instead of draining this water, this can be collected in buckets or tubs and can be used to wash off the toilets after use instead of flushing every time. Flushing methods wastes at least 100 litres of water per day in a family of four. If each use the toilet five times, five litres of water is flushed out each time. This will minimise water wastage to some extent. Further, instead of brushing teeth by leaving the tap open, use water from a jug for brushing, which will again reduce water wastage.” “Electricity too can be saved if the laptops and televisions are switched off from the plug point and not just the device. After fully charging mobile phones, disconnect the charger and switch off the plug point to save energy,” added Lokesh, who has already visited 50 cities so far.
 
 Besides emphasising practical application of energy conservation and eco-friendly methods, JSS also focusses on adapting ancient Indian values and culture such as sitting down on the floor for meals, not sleeping too much and donating a little food to the poor or needy before taking meals every day. 
 
