Mumbai: The Alembic case, where minority shareholders are pushing for a board seat, will not only define the equation between companies and its investors, but significantly assess the protection regulations. This is a seminal case as it is the first time a set of sophisticated domestic investors are taking a firm stance,   shareholder proxy firm said in a note, adding shareholders have woken up to the fact that their ownership (of shares) in a company need not be passive.

 Over a thousand shareholders have moved a resolution to appoint a director on their behalf at the annual general meeting (AGM) on July 28, as they seek better investor returns through reorganisation moves in the in Ahmedabad-based drug company, Alembic.
 
 Further the firm has raised questions about the company’s independent directors and company itself, in not making the required disclosure, Even upon receiving the notice to appoint Murali Rajagopalachari’s as a small shareholder director on July 12, the company failed to make disclosures to the stock exchanges. “Receiving notice under section 151 is not an everyday event, and IiAS believes this is a material event which affects a larger set of shareholders – therefore, it should have been disclosed.
 
 While it could be argued that independent directors did not have sufficient time to make a decision, their protracted reticence on this matter raises questions about their own independence, about their ability to tide the company through difficult times, and about how seriously they take their responsibilities as representatives of non-promoter shareholders, the note added. 
 
 On July 12, the company received a notice from   (under the signature of its MD Sarath Reddy), which proposed Murali Rajagopalachari’s candidature for being appointed as a small shareholder director under section 151 of the  .
 
 While small shareholders have attempted to get board seats in the past through this route, this is possibly one of the first cases where a set of sophisticated, discerning shareholders are leveraging this regulation. Therefore, how the board, particularly the independent directors, decide will be reflective of the company’s (and perhaps a large set of corporate India) attitude towards small shareholders, it added.
 
 Company law allows a small shareholder director on the board with the specific intent of having the interest of small shareholders represented in the decisions made by the board. Market infrastructure companies, like the stock exchanges and depositories, have shareholder directors (or public interest directors) on their board. Public sector banks too, under   regulations, are required to have shareholder director representations on their boards. The Companies Act 2013, attempts to achieve the same goal, in providing for at least one small shareholder director appointment in non-public-sector companies.
 
 
