MIRATI: As   addressed the nation as President for the last time, people in his native   of   in Bengal’s Birbhum district did not lament that Monday marked his last day in the highest office of the land. 

 Expressing pride over his track record at Rashtrapati Bhavan, villagers said Mukherjee’s life was a story of a man showing what could be achieved through sheer determination.
 
 Amid ceremonies in New Delhi over Mukherjee’s demitting of the presidency and Tuesday’s swearing-in of successor  , the outgoing President’s alma mater, Kirnahar Shibcharan High School, held a function to mark the end of his tenure. Mukherjee had studied there till secondary level. 
 
 Arun Roy, a senior teacher, said: “‘During his tenure, the President visited our school three times. Amid his busy schedule, he spent hours talking with teachers and students, recollecting the golden moments of his student life. This is not a day to lament. Rather, it is a moment of pride. His contribution to the history of Indian politics will be remembered.”
 
 The school will send Mukherjee a special letter on Tuesday. 
 
 Like every year at this time, Mirati is focused on the Durga puja at Mukherjee Bhavan on Kamadakinkar Sarani. Everyone, particularly Mukherjee’s elder sister Annapurna Banerjee, expects him to attend the festival — as he has done throughout his life, barring two years. 
 
 To his affectionate ‘didi’, Mukherjee was always her younger brother, irrespective of the roles he performed in New Delhi. “His entire life he was busy. He still loves to stay in Mirati and take part in Durga puja. He has successfully fulfilled all his responsibilities. Now, he will find some time for rest,”she said.
 
 “The story of his journey from a hamlet like Mirati to Raisina Hill is nothing short of a fairy tale,” said Sushobhan Banerjee, former MLA and Mukherjee’s political associate. Though Mukherjee was a politician of national stature, he was always interested in Birbhum’s political events, he added.
 
 
