KOLKATA: It’s a child’s play to get a dose of banned drugs in Kolkata. Be it in Tollygunge, Park Street, College Street or Ahiritola, they are available almost everywhere, and in abundance near prominent city schools and colleges with students as the primary customers.

 “We have arrested at least 63 peddlers in the past one year. More than half of them were involved in smuggling cannabis and marijuana. A cache of 1,378kg ganja was seized from them. The situation is turning critical with the peddlers targeting schoolkids,” said  , regional director of the  .
 
 But five dozen arrests in a year count for nothing in a trade that involves thousands. During a police crackdown, the peddlers are targeted but big operators are left to carry on with their trade. So the city is never short on supply. TOI went around the city and spoke to some shadowy figures to find out how the machinery remains well-oiled round the year. 
 
 The market
 
 At the ground level, women run the show. Small packets of marijuana or purias of brown sugar tucked in blouses, the women operate at specific areas. More than 50 women, from vegetable and tea vendors to vagabonds, sell purias for Rs 30-50 each and marijuana packets for Rs 100-120.
 
 At Tollygunge Phari, two women — one of them known as Sona Masi — sell the stuff post 6pm every day. She generally hangs around hutments opposite   mosque. At Gariahat market, ‘Komorbhanga’ Bikash (name changed) runs the show. From an average grocer to the parking attendant, everyone knows him. He does not sit at his regular spot – a stool beside a shop selling dairy products – in the morning but is available till the early hours of morning from 5pm. 
 
 At   and Short Street, there are groups who hang around in the area targeting students from elite schools in Park Street, Loudon Street, Moira Street and Rowdon Street. “They do not approach students but there are a group of students who are regular buyers and they introduce others to them,” said a Class XII student. Metiabruz, Garden Reach and red-light areas at Sonagachhi and Kalighat also serve as popular markets.
 
 The consumers
 
 The consumers are mostly young students who get to know about the peddlers from peer groups. Outside prominent schools, the peddlers don’t respond to random buyers unless they are accompanied by a regular customer. Once a known face, the peddlers even call or whatsapp the students the photographs and price of the new stuff as and when they arrive.
 
 Most of the transaction takes place when the school gets over and there are several people – guardians, pool car drivers, hawkers – of different age groups outside the school gates, a perfect camouflage for the peddlers.
 
 Police inaction
 
 Cops are well aware about the business but stay mum. Since most of the operatives are women, cops claim they can’t search them in absence of women cops. The peddlers, however, say police get a share at every level and so they look the other way. At Sealdah, Chandni (name changed) assures customers that they need to “pay only Rs 20 to police” if they get caught. She pays a constable Rs 30 every day. Officers get Rs 500 every week. However, the officers have their alibis ready. “There is not much of organized network for cannabis in Kolkata. The city serves as a transit point,” said Subrata Biswas, Collector (Excise) Kolkata. 
 
