PANAJI: If and when Mars gets an anthem of its own, Oscar Castellino’s ‘Rise to Mars’ will be a prime contender. 

 The Goan lad’s searing composition was recently named ‘Mars Anthem’ by the  , the world’s largest and most influential advocacy organisation focused on the  . It was premièred in Cardiff this June by the society, with Castellino, a distinguished baritone, accompanied by the REPco Sinfonia.
 
 The anthem, which will be released online this month, will again take centrestage in September, when Castellino performs it before the crème de la crème of the Mars community in California for the society’s 20th annual convention. Castellino will be in exquisite company here. These events have, over the years, featured addresses by giants such as Elon Musk, the SpaceX founder who is planning a colony on Mars, and  , the second man on the moon. 
 
 “I would not be surprised if Castellino’s composition someday became the national anthem of the Free Martian Republic,” said Robert Zubrin, a former Lockheed Martin engineer and founder-president of the Mars Society, who co-wrote the lyrics. 
 
 Castellino, 31, was a software analyst in Mumbai before being discovered by the British-Indian soprano Patricia Rozario in 2011. What followed was a phenomenal rise — a scholarship to London’s prestigious  , singing for Queen Elizabeth’s diamond jubilee pageant on the River Thames, and numerous opera roles. He’s currently on scholarship at the Royal Welsh College of Music and Drama, a far cry from his days graduating in science at St Xavier’s College, Mumbai. 
 
 “My physics background and curiosity got me in touch with Zubrin, president of the Mars Society and also the driving force behind the ‘Mars Direct’ design that NASA adapted for its Mars mission,” said Castellino, whose family is from Assagao. 
 
 As it turned out, the Mars Society was looking for an anthem, and Castellino was the perfect combo of conservatory-trained musician and space geek to compose it. “As Mars is my inspiration and music my tool, I thought I would give it a shot,” Castellino told TOI. “To my surprise, I later got a reply from Zubrin saying he and others in the Mars community he had shared it with were thrilled.”
 
 Interestingly, this isn’t the first time someone has stumbled upon the idea of a  . “Mars is big enough for more than one anthem,” Zubrin told TOI from Colorado. “But ‘Rise to Mars’ has a good chance of being the song for the ages. It is very inspiring, it truly conveys the hopes of those reaching for the Red Planet, and is a song everyone can sing rather than merely listen to as a member of an audience.”
 
 But why the need of an anthem at all? “No movement of importance has ever gotten anywhere without a song,” says Zubrin, who leads the enthusiastic underground Mars movement.
 
 As for Castellino, he hopes his idol Buzz Aldrin will hear his anthem. At 87, Aldrin continues to be a steering committee member of the Mars Society but won't be present at the September convention. “But I expect that he will like the song (when he hears it),” says Zubrin. “I think a lot of people are going to.”
 
