NEW DELHI: Uttar Pradesh CM Adityanath Yogi, his deputy Keshav Prasad Maurya and CMs of other BJP-ruled states are likely to campaign for the party in the run-up to the civic polls in Delhi. 

 BJP’s Delhi unit has submitted a list of 42 star campaigners—which includes Union ministers, MPs and senior party functionaries—to the party’s central leadership for approval. Delhi unit chief Manoj Tiwari will lead the campaign.
 
 “We have requested for UP CM Aditya Nath Yogi and Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat. A large chunk of Delhi’s population belongs to these states. There are 30% of Poorvanchali voters in Delhi,” said Harish Khurana, spokesperson, Delhi BJP.
 
 The party also wants CMs from other BJP-ruled states to join the campaign as people from different states live here. “This is mini-India. We have prepared the list after proper research. We have submitted the list of star campaigners to the central committee, which will take a final call,” said Rajiv Babbar, Delhi BJP vice-president.
 
 Apart from Yogi and Rawat, Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chauhan, Rajasthan CM Vasundhara Raje, Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar, Chhattishgarh CM Raman Singh, Jharkhand CM Raghubar Das and Assam CM Sarbananda Sonowal figure in the list. 
 
 The municipal polls are important for BJP, which has been ruling the three corporations for a decade now, especially after its debacle in the 2015 assembly elections. The party is banking on the ‘Modi wave’ to secure a third term as it has not been able to do much work in the corporations and has been constantly engaged in a tussle with the AAP-led Delhi government for the past two years.
 
 The party plans to hold public meetings with Union ministers Arun Jaitley, Venkaiah Naidu, Rajnath Singh, Nitin Gadkari, Smriti Irani, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Giriraj Singh, Vijay Goel and Harsh Vardhan. “We want the ministers to tell people about the various central government schemes for Delhi. A lot of work is being done to improve the city’s infrastructure,” said Babbar. 
 
 BJP members said they were in talks with sportspersons, celebrities and other important personalities for campaigning. 
 
 The party also plans to use two in-house celebrities—Mathura MP Hema Malini and Bhojpuri actor Ravi Kishen, who recently joined BJP—in the poll campaign. Sources said Ravi Kishen, who is close to Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari, has agreed to campaign.
 
 
