BENGALURU: As the government grapples with a whopping 59 lakh illegal and unauthorized constructions in Karnataka, some of which will be regularized under the new   scheme cleared by the high court, the   (UDD) plans to bring in a new integrated software to restrict illegal structures from coming up. Once operational, the software will approve all building plans automatically with least human interference.

 The department will soon invite bids for the integrated software, which will be integrated with the existing online platforms of Bhoomi, Kaveri, Escoms and ULB portals. It will also be integrated with the existing comprehensive development plans (CDP) of all urban local bodies across the state.
 
 Building plan approval will be given within 24 to 72 hours of an applicant uploading his documents and the survey sketch of the land on the integrated platform. Urban development department secretary V Ponnuraju told TOI bids worth Rs 2.5 crore, for preparing and customizing the software, will be invited this week.“What we intend to do is reduce human interference in the plan approval process and make it automated. This will help us ensure that there are less chances of encroachments and illegal constructions coming up,“ Ponnuraju said.
 
 Explaining further, Ponnuraju said the online interface will have the CDP of each city, with which it will match the survey sketch of the land which a developer intends to use for his project. “Once the survey sketch is uploaded, along with the requisite documents, the software will accept it if there are no concerns in the land records as per the CDP of the ULB and land record websites. Otherwise, it will show an error to the applicant citing the land parcel cannot be used for development due to concerns such as violation of zonal regulations as per the CDP, floor area ratio as per the ULB regulations or due to errors in land records as per the revenue department website,“ he said. The integrated software will allow people and developers in Bengaluru to upload documents for a project in Kalaburagi or Mangaluru.
 
 According to the department, CDPs of 142 of the 275 ULBs in the state were available with them for approval of building plans. “As soon as CDPs of rest of the ULBs are prepared, we will upload them,“ Ponnuraju said.
 
 The department said their new portal will also be linked to the property tax interface of the local bodies, which will automatically send notices or reminders for payment of property tax after construction. It will also be linked to electricity supply companies (Escoms) to ensure there is no illegal connections or loss in revenue generation,“ Ponnuraju said At present, such an integrated software is not available anywhere in the country, with Andhra Pradesh being the only other state to invite bids for a similar project.
 
