BENGALURU: Twenty-three key   are likely to remain on paper for a longer period of time, as land required to execute these projects continues to remain with the Indian Army, which says it has not given any commitment regarding parting with it in exchange for land elsewhere.

 The   (BBMP), which has drawn up plans for these 23 projects, requires 62.01 acres of land currently with the Army, with a market value estimated at Rs 1,022.33 crore. 
 
 The Army is clear that it can only part with this land in exchange for land and the Palike has been negotiating this since early 2016. On its part, BBMP has offered 207 acres of land in a single parcel near Anekal, about 36km south of Bengaluru. A joint team of BBMP and senior officials from the   and Kerala Sub-Area of the Indian Army inspected the area in the first week of July.
 
 The BBMP, late on July 4, issued a press note claiming that the Army has given in-principle approval for the land swap and said it was hopeful of the defence ministry clearing it soon.
 
 But BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad told STOI: “There is no such approval from the Army yet. There is an elaborate process that needs to be completed before we even send the proposal to the Army.”
 
 A source in the Army confirmed it saying, “No such approval has been given by the K&K (Karnataka and Kerala) area officials.” 
 
 The Army has made it clear that the land it gets in exchange must match the market value of the land it is parting with. The land value of the 207 acres of land being offered by BBMP in Anekal is estimated at only Rs 325 crore, compared to Rs 1,022.33 crore of defence land, the source said.
 
 
 
 
  development minister K J George, while confirming the Army’s demand, told TOI that “this has been a problem that remains unresolved”. He said the chief minister directed the chief secretary to take the matter up with the defence secretary and arrive at a solution.
 
 A written statement from the defence spokesperson’s office read: “The visit (to Anekal) was to ascertain suitability of land being offered by BBMP with regard to Army requirements. The final decision on the matter will be taken by the ministry of defence as and when a formal proposal comes up through the proper channel.”
 
 Another source said the Karnataka government is yet to send any formal proposal, which Prasad confirmed.
 
 About the BBMP’s July 4 claims, the Army spokesperson’s email read: “The details covered by the media are the BBMP’s perception. No commitment has been made by the Army on the issue.”
 
 Some key projects that will continue to remain on paper are: Widening of the Laskar-Hosur Road (2.85acres); Victoria Road from Old Airport Road to D’Souza Circle (2.58acres); widening of Belur Ambedkar Nagar (4 acres); development of Murphy Road from Kensington Road to Old Madras Road, and so on.
 
