MUMBAI: Chief minister   accused the   of using the Marathi manoos as a vote bank and said that no effective steps were being taken to improve their living standards.

 “The Marathi manoos on ly features in Uddhav Thackeray's speeches but the decisions that BMC takes never reflects them. At that time only contractors are remembered,“ said Fadnavis who was addressing a rally in the Marathi-dominated Girgaum.
 
 “You people (Shiv Sena) have given only verbal assurances to the people of the city and Marathi people for the last 20 years. But the grim reality is that they lack basic amenities and here in Girgam, water is supplied only for an hour. Is this development of the city? Please stop playing the emotional chord with Marathi people.“
 
 Fadnavis also lashed out at Sena chief   ray for his jibe about BJP's promises on Ram Mandir in Ayodhya.
 
 “What Ram Mandir in Ayodhya has to do with  ? Why don't you talk about the development agenda for Mumbai city? And yes, our party has mentioned this issue (Ayodhya) in its manifesto for Uttar Pradesh polls,“ he said.
 
 Sena was not focusing on issues of development and transparency because it had done nothing on these counts, while BJP had a development agenda that would transform the city, Fadnavis said. “We are constructing a 200-km Metro network across the city of which work for 120 km has started and when complete, it would have the capacity to transport 70 lakh people, equal to the capacity of the sub urban railway network...we are on fast forward mode to execute railway projects including elevated railway corridors on Western and Harbour line,“ Fadnavis said.
 
 Fadnavis also targeted Se na over the bad condition of roads in Mumbai and said the irregularities and lack of transparency in the functio ning of BMC was plaguing the city. In a dig over the alle ged 'desilting scam' in BMC, he said, “The manner in which the work of desilting of nullahs was carried out by the people of BMC and its ca retakers, only (southern su perstar) Rajinikanth could have done it.“
 
 Addressing another rally in Prabhadevi, Fadnavis said the Sena has candidates with the highest criminal cases.
 
 “Sixty-three candidates (of Sena) have criminal backgro unds, of which 43 have serio us cases registered against them. Such people have been given tickets to represent Mumbai,“ he said.
 
