MUMBAI: The   in Mumbai has directed ‘notional’ reinstatement of a   removed from service in May 2013 for allegedly having a “philandering lifestyle” and “breaching security” . The government said his actions amounted to “gross misconduct”. But the tribunal held that the case against the commander,  , was “grossly overstated”.

 The tribunal said a punishment disproportionate to the misconduct would amount to discrimination under right to equality and hence set aside his removal. The commander would have completed 20 years of pensionable service last March. The tribunal made it clear he should now get his pension as commander. The Centre had removed him from service based on the findings of a board of inquiry set up by the Western Naval Command. The inquiry was against four officers for alleged extramarital relationships “unbecoming” of naval officers.
 
 Against Chacko, there were additional allegations of unauthorised contact with foreign nationals and use of personal computers and emails for official work in violation of rules. The board of inquiry found that as a bachelor, while on deputation to Russia for three years till 2008, he had a “philandering lifestyle” and on returning continued an “intimate relationship” with a married woman.
 
 The board faulted him for posting “classified information”— a mid-year refit review of 2011—online for a presentation on a laptop bought by his wife, a Russian, thus breaching security. The officer denied any wrongdoing. His marriage in 2010, to a foreigner, was after approval, as legally required for defence personnel, from the Indian government.
 
 His lawyer Satyendra Kumar argued that allegations of compromising national security were made seven years after his deputation only to malign him. He argued that the inquiry was improperly conducted and that his removal from service was disproportionately harsh.
 
 The tribunal, in its April 28 order, said that to prove adultery, there has to be a complaint, which in this case was lacking. It also said reliance on emails and chats was contestable without forensic analysis of computers, pen drives and data cards. The lack of such analysis was a “serious shortcoming” in the inquiry, said the AFT. The navy had argued that the very use of an unsecured email id and internet connection for official work was contrary to rules. The tribunal also observed that no warning was given to Commander Chacko under Navy Rules prior to the investigations.
 
