Hyderabad:

 Another   dream lies in a shambles. A 36-year-old woman from Kushaiguda in the city who had gone to the oil-rich country in the hope of shoring up her family’s financial position, is desperate to return because of unbearable torture in the hands of her kafil. Manjula, a mother of two children, is being forced to kneel in the blistering sun while her legs and thighs are being singed with hot iron rods by her kafil. And, this because she wants to return to India to escape torture.Horror-stricken and her voice choking, Manjula narrated her suffering to her husband Ravi. “She has been threatened by the kafil that he would rather send her body back to India than allow her to leave,” a weeping Ravi told TOI on Friday from his Kushaiguda residence. He said his daughter Sujana and son Shravan were spending sleepless nights, worrying about Manjula. In the conversation with his wife that Ravi recorded on his phone, Manjula appears distressed and shaken. She cries for freedom.
 
 Ravi urged the Telangana government and external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj to rescue his wife from the clutches of the cruel employer. According to Ravi, an illegal agent, Sattar, had approached them and promised Manjula that she would get paid if she went to Qatar. However, after being kept in Qatar for three months, she was smuggled into Saudi Arabia and kept in a house for work.
 
 “For the last five months, she has been crying and complaining about torture. She is saying that she is being threatened with death. I want my wife to be rescued,” Ravi said. The family incurred debts to fund the education of their children and wanted to get rid of the burden. Before going to the Gulf, Manjula worked as a tailor and earned money while Ravi works on a borewell vehicle. Though they toiled every day they barely managed to scratch a decent living.
 
 “My children are in a terrible state of shock. At 2 in the night, sometimes my wife gives a missed call from another servant’s phone in Saudi Arabia. She has to talk secretly. If the employer finds out she is making calls to us, she has a hell to pay,” Ravi said.
 
 
