PUNE: Education in around 50 English medium schools run by the Pune Municipal Corporation is being imparted by good-hearted teachers, who are reporting for work despite their contracts having ended over a month ago.

 The delay is largely due to the fact that the municipal election coincided with the contract renewal process and officials claim the matter will be resolved soon.
 
 Last year, this group of 180 teachers was appointed in August, two months after the first term began, which resulted in loss of academic activity for the students.
 
 At each of the 50 civic schools, there are only one or two permanent teachers and at least 150 students. While the teachers' contract ended on January 30, 2017, some of them continue to do their job without any pay or official appointment because they feel responsible towards the students.
 
 When contacted, PMC's   gave excuses for the delay and said that it was in the process of giving a new work order.
 
 The state of unaided secondary schools run by PMC is also not very different. The unaided schools are located in Gokhalenagar, Katraj, Bopodi and   and employ 73 contractual teachers.
 
 Until a year ago, the teachers were given two six-month contracts but this year, only one contract has been given. The contract for primary schools started in August 1 and ended on January 30 while the contract for secondary schools started on a later date in August and ended in the third week of February.
 
 A senior official from the School Board's secondary education department said, “The problem started due to late issuance of advertisements for this year. Later, various proposals came, there was an interview process and finally they started working around August 20.“
 
 The official further added, “Immediately after their contract ended, the elections were announced and the code of conduct came into effect. So, we could not approve any new appointments. After the code of conduct ended, I went to the commissioner with the file for reinstatement of the cont ract teachers but we couldn't meet due to various reasons. Wit hin a day or two, the contracts will be rene wed.“
 
 The secondary tea chers receive Rs10,000 as salary whereas se nior secondary tea chers get a salary of Rs11,000 and primary teachers get Rs6000, per month.
 
 Talking to ToI on Thursday, Shubhangi Chavan, education officer, primary education department said, “The file has been sent for approval to the PMC commissioner and soon the work order will be given. The delay was due to code of conduct. We will also be sending a proposal to increase the wages to approximately Rs12,000 which is as per the norms of the government.“
 
 Commissioner of education Dheeraj Kumar gave an assurance that the department would look into the matter urgently. “We will write to the PMC commissioner to make sure that the teachers are appointed on the very first day when school reopens and remain till the last working day of the school. It is local body's responsibility to ensure that rules and regulations of the RTE Act are implemented properly.“ he stated.
 
