NEW DELHI: Delhiites can now look forward to affordable regional connectivity with nearby cities as well as Northeast with the AAP government reducing tax on aviation turbine fuel (ATF) from 25% to 1%. While small planes flying on regional routes get fuel at less tax rate, the Arvind Kejriwal government has further lowered it, to 1%, for such flights under the Centre’s “regional connectivity scheme” (RCS) and given fuel tax relief to flights to NE India, which always have high fares.

 The move comes at a time when global crude prices, and therefore ATF cost, have started inching up in the past few months and a cut in taxes will help keep the jet fuel price hike in check. “The central government had asked airports, part of the regional connectivity scheme, to reduce the VAT on aviation fuel. Delhi was not part of it but we proactively reduced VAT so that Delhi can be connected with smaller airports, especially to the Northeast,” deputy CM Manish Sisodia said.
 
 RCS caps fares at Rs 2,500 per hour through a cross-subsidy fund, which will be raised by levying a fee on aircraft landing at bigger airports. “States participating in RCS were supposed to provide fuel at cheaper rates (by cutting taxes) to regional flights. Delhi is not an RCS airport but has extended the concession to support the regional scheme at our request,” said a senior aviation ministry official. Aviation minister A G Raju thanked Kejriwal “for supporting RCS by slashing VAT on ATF for such flights to 1%”.
 
 Sisodia, who holds the finance portfolio, spoke of reducing fares on flights between Delhi and Northeast India by charging 1% tax on fuel for these flights, instead of the regular 25%. How this will happen is not yet clear.
 
 Travel portal Yatra chief Sharat Dhall said: “Fuel is almost half the operating cost of an airline and if tax on that is reduced, prices on flights to Northeast from Delhi could fall by about 10%.”
 
 Welcoming the move, IndiGo president Aditya Ghosh said: “Though this move will provide the much-needed impetus to RCS, we request that this tax break is broadened to all air travel out of Delhi as it will allow IndiGo to provide even more affordable services to millions of our customers flying out of Delhi, which is our biggest base of planes.” At 25%, Delhi’’s tax on ATF is among the highest in India.
 
 SpiceJet chairman Ajay Singh also lauded the move, saying this would help reduce costs and, in turn, help bring down fares for flights to smaller airports in the country.”
 
