NAGPUR: This Christmas is not a merry one for Joshy Uzhunnalil. His elder brother,   Uzhunnalil, has been in captivity in Yemen since March with the kidnappers neither revealing their identity nor making public any demands. Joshy, an IT professional settled in the US, is currently in Nagpur visiting in-laws and says his hopes now lie only with the Indian government. “A civil war is going on in Yemen since last year so there’s no real government there. Nobody else can do anything now. Neither groups, nor we as family members nor the Catholic Church as there is no one in Yemen with whom we can communicate. Officials at the embassy have told us that they are working on his release but at this point they can’t share details,” said 55 year-old Joshy, who is three years younger to Father Tom.

 Father Tom was kidnapped from the city of Aden which now resembles a war zone. On March 4, gunmen stormed into the shelter for destitutes being managed by Mother Teresa’s   and killed over 10 people. Father Tom was the only one taken away by the gunmen, whose identity has still not been revealed. Last week, a video of Father Tom surfaced on the internet in which he’s seen making a plea to the Indian government and Church officials to help in his release. Joshy said, “In the video, he’s looking extremely weak and is sporting a long beard. It’s definitely my brother, no doubt about it, and I am assuming that the video is a latest one considering the growth of his facial hair.” Surprisingly, the video still does not give any visual clues about his kidnappers nor does Father Tom mention it. In the video, Tom refers to them simply as “my captors” and confirms that they have contacted the Indian government but have not received reply. 
 
 The last time Joshy spoke with his elder brother was in February, just weeks before the kidnapping. “ At no point did he mention about any dangers in that region. He had been in Yemen since 2010 and had finished his tenure. The only reason he was there was because the reliever had not arrived in the country yet,” said Joshy. In a coincidence of sorts, Joshy’s wife’s uncle too served as a priest in that same building during his stay in Yemen between 1999-2005. Currently Father   is in Kerala and heading an educational institute. 
 
 The Uzhunnalil family is now planning to meet with ministry of external affairs officials and follow up on the matter since the latest video of Father Tom not only provides proof of life but also gives indication that his captors are willing to negotiate.
 
 
