PATIALA: General   has a pedometer in his smartphone which he checks at the end of the day. The app has told him that he is clocking 10km every day ever since he started campaigning in Patiala for Shiromani Alli Dal (SAD) against one of Punjab's most powerful politicians and former chief minister Captain  .

 “I’m almost 70 and I’m doing this every day,” says India's first Sikh chief of army staff with some pride. “Now let's see if Captain can match this.”
 
 And that in a nutshell is the General's strategy to beat a Captain — walking that extra mile to reach out to the people of Patiala. Captain has often been accused by his detractors of not letting go of his royal lineage and remaining inaccessible like a Maharaja. This is also how many people still refer to him in Patiala — Maharaja Sahib.
 
 “He thinks he is still a maharaja," General Singh says. "Captain doesn't step out of the palace. There is a paradigm shift in Punjab's politics now with the entry of AAP. You can't win elections without reaching out to the people, voters."
 
 Everywhere that General Singh goes, he asks those people who have shaken Captain's hand to raise their hands. “Invariably there are none," he says. “I’m shaking as many hands as possible and asking people about their problems. And there are problems. Of roads and dirt and sewage..."
 
 Interestingly, General Singh's family had settled in Patiala for four to five years after they migrated from Rawalpindi in Pakistan during Partition.
 
 He believes that Captain has bitten more than he can chew by taking on chief minister Parkash Singh Badal on his home turf of Lambi in Bathinda. “I will put Captain’s popularity to the test in Patiala and he will not win in Lambi,” he says. “The problem is no party has challenged him in Patiala before. I’m doing exactly that.”
 
 General Singh brushes aside the criticism that it is unbecoming of an ex-army chief and former governor to contest an assembly election. That making it to Rajya Sabha would have been a different story but fighting to be an   undermines his stature. “It is OK for royalty to fight assembly elections but it is not OK for an army chief to fight the same election? Why bring rank into this? I want to do sewa and I should not be allowed to do so because of my rank? This is a very bad argument."
 
 Although General Singh claims that the fairly large community of ex-servicemen in Patiala is backing him after their initial reluctance, there are many who are uncomfortable with him jumping into the heat and dust of an assembly election. Captain Reet Mohinder Paul Singh (retd), who was awarded the Veer Chakra for his role in the famous tank battle of Khemkaran in the 1965 India-Pakistan war, says, “Fighting an election is no way to do sewa. If you want you can open a school or an institution of blind children. I respect General Singh but he should not have fought an assembly election." The 1965 veteran is also the driving force behind the setting up of the organization War Decorated India, made up of war veterans who have won gallantry awards.
 
 It is around 11.30am on Tuesday and the black and white chessboard like floor of the Kali temple in Patiala is still freezing cold. A bunch of dedicated Captain supporters are waiting barefoot for him to arrive. Captain is making his rounds of important religious places before he files nomination papers. After the temple he will visit the famous Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib. Ask people at the temple about the 'inaccessible maharaja' and one of them says, "Accessible or not you can't shake his goodwill here. Leave Captain aside Maharani (captain's wife and former Union minister Preneet Kaur) has even more goodwill." Kaur has a reputation of not saying no to most invites and will visit people in good times and bad.
 
 So Maharani's accessibility makes up for Captain's inaccessibility? There is general agreement. 
 
 After filing his papers, Captain sits down for lunch with journalists at his Moti Baug palace and quietly answers questions on Arvind Kejriwal and Sukhbir Badal, as if the battle in Patiala has already been won. He will be filing his nomination for Lambi on Wednesday. The General meanwhile says he's ready to trigger a miracle with his 10km a day.
 
 BOX
 
 SAD-BJP CONTROLS PATIALA MC
 
 Patiala may be a stronghold of   chief Captain Amarinder Singh but the SAD-BJP alliance controls the city's municipal council. The city has 50 councillors and   won just six of these in the 2012 elections. And yet no one doubts that you need a miracle to beat Captain in an assembly election from the Patiala urban constituency.
 
 
