Vloggers who choose to go online to showcase their talent ... or rather, the lack of it. And are grabbing eyeballs for doing just that.

  If Nasir Khan Jan’s self-imposed noodles and carrot-eating challenges do not make you roll on the floor laughing, then   — The Legend’s rendition of 'Tip Tip Barsa Pani', where he drenches himself completely with water in a not-so-sexy way, will definitely make your stomach hurt real bad.
 You may hate them, but you will always go back…to their videos!
 
 
 
 With a fan base of over 10, 000 subscribers on a video-sharing website and multiple ‘fan’ accounts that frequently re-upload his videos, Nasir Khan Jan is inarguably one of the funniest vloggers that you will find on the internet. When it comes to crooning (and completely mutilating) English songs like 'What Do You Mean' and 'Despacito', or memorising the lyrics to stuffing his mouth with oodles of noodles to finish a self-imposed one-minute challenge, Nasir has done it all and how. His singing skills have irked people so much that someone’s actually managed to upload a ‘cringe version’ of 'Despacito' featuring ‘the shinging star’ Nasir Khan Jan.
 
 
 
 
 This young chap is actually not the worst dancer to have walked the face of the earth, but it is his hilarious antics that throw him straight into the list of ‘cringe-stars’. The self-proclaimed legend has made some of the craziest confessions on his video-sharing channel. He has claimed that Bollywood superstar Salman Khan wanted to date him and that he was being hounded by international movie agents to star in Hollywood projects. If you are gasping for breath already, hold on till you hear this: In an attempt to recreate the latest party song 'Paani Wala Dance', Nouman emptied four buckets of water on himself while frantically dancing away. Trolls love him though, as several of their accounts frequently re-upload ‘The Legend’s’ videos.
 
 
 
 
 A porcelain complexion, long and shiny hair, a pretty smile and the charm of a celebrity — that’s internet’s favourite girl Azmah Fallah, until she opens her mouth. Once she starts talking, you really know that looks are not everything. From calling herself a product of Jupiter who has come to Earth to ‘handle’ this planet to declaring that she is the Pakistani version of Emma Watson, Azma has a no-holds-barred policy in life, for life. 
 While it is perfectly fine to draw inspiration from film stars, Azma has gone to the extent of accusing Watson of bombarding her phone with multiple calls, claiming that she has gone out of work because of Azma’s social media presence. Because of her allegedly narcissistic approach towards life, many call her the sister of Nouman Khan- The Legend.
 
 
 
  
  
 No conversation about cringe and viral sensationalism is ever complete without the mention of our 'desi kudi' Dhinchak Pooja. Call it people’s obsession with the ‘Cindy Crawford of Cringe’ or their insatiable desire to be entertained, Dhinchak Pooja seems to have hit the right chords with her audience. Her rap song 'Selfie' has been viewed more than 25 million times. Her other, equally cringe-worthy songs— 'Daaru', 'Swag Wali Topi', 'Baapu Dede Thoda Cash', 'Dilon Ka Scooter' — have all taken the internet by storm too. Fancy cars, Hinglish lyrics and a rapper’s cap is all Dhinchak needs to make us dance to her tunes. Well, almost!
 
 
