MELBOURNE: This is not a fairytale. No chariots and glass slippers. It's the fight of her life.

 On Wednesday , after an hour and 40-something minutes since the umpire called play ,   pulled a rosary around her neck, tucked it into her tee and patted her chest as she walked out to serve for a place in a major semifinal for the first time in 18 years.“Only God could help me,“ the Croat, who is battling injury woes, said of the moment.
 
 After holding nerve and serve, the 34-yearold crossed her heart and sank to the court, going down on her knees, face buried her face in her palms, sobbing inconsolably . The world No.79, on a wildcard from life, had just beaten the fifth-seeded Czech Karolina Pliskova for a place in the   semifinal, entering the last-four stage of a major again after eighteen years.
 
 `After 18-years', the theme of the last week, would be a good title for a motion picture on Lucic-Baroni should it ever be made. It was that many years ago that she made the Wimbledon semifinal as a 17-yearold, relying on a strong arm and little else.Her 6-4, 3-6, 6-4 win in the quarterfinals then was stirred by a spirit that has walked desolate alleys and dealt with a difficult past. Pliskova, a powerful striker of the ball herself, might have had a chance against Lucic-Baroni's punishing serve in that tenth game of the deciding set. But breaking the spirit was near impossible.
 
 “Making the semifinal of a Grand Slam means a lot to any player, but for me it's overwhelming,“ a sobbing Lucic-Baroni told a wildly cheering Rod Laver Arena. “Everything bad that has ever happened in my life... This has made it ok, made up for it.“
 
 The 1 hour and 48 minutes encounter had a lot of momentum swings. The players struggled with injury worries, Pliskova's foot and Lucic-Baroni's heavily-strapped thigh and calf, they had medical timeouts and had the trainer on court, the Croat even leaving the arena briefly before she pulled through.
 
 The statuesque pro, whose patchwork play was in sync with her gear, said she believed.“I felt like these results were missing. I'm 34, I have a wonderful home, I'm happily married, I would be perfectly okay staying home, enjoying my family . But I knew deep down in my soul that I have these results in me.“
 
 Lucic-Baroni understands that no matter how hard she has worked or how long she has fought, fortune has played a hand. The very same one that dealt her the `dad from hell' deal.Marinko Lucic, of whom she won't speak, at least not yet. “I want to be known as an amazing fighter, a person who persevered against everything. That's what I take pride in,“ she said.
 
 Quite easily the story of the championships, Lucic-Baroni's face doesn't give away much except when she breaks down in tears, something she did twice on her biggest day yet on a   court, once in front of a full house and later at the media-conference, a full two hours after she had walked off court.
 
 “Serena is the greatest tennis player that ever played the game,“ the world No. 79 said of Thursday's opponent. “It's going to be tough. She is going for history .“
 
 
