MUMBAI: Western Railway has finalised plans to upgrade passenger  , besides installing   furniture that will be in sync with the   design at  . The station stands out as a prominent landmark with its architectural blend of Victorian Gothic and vernacular styles.

  WR has tied with up with Union Bank of India which has agreed to release funds (Rs 1crore) under its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) plan for improvements at the station, which is designated as a Grade I heritage building. It was built in the  . 
 
 WR’s divisional railway manager Mukul Jain said, “Sprucing up will include setting up of a heritage counter which will display railway artefacts, renovation of toilet block with heritage design, provision of baby nursing facility and more.”
 
 As per the plan, the heritage counter will be set up in the lobby portion adjacent to platform No1. It will have exhibits and souvenirs from the National Rail Museum. 
 
 A landscaped green island with heritage design fencing will come up near the station manager’s office, facing the circulating areas in   (west). The circulating area is the entry-exit points of the station. A railway official said, “The toilet block will be redesigned and renovated with a provision to increase the WC for women commuter from one to three. For men the number of urinals will increase from eight to 11 and WC from two to three.”
 
 In less than two months, Agasti foundation will complete the renovation project.The existing boards at the station are of varied design and colours. The official added, “These will make way for uniform wooden board having a heritage look. The fencing and railings in the circulating area on Bandra (west) will have designs similar to the one at Mumbai Central station.
 
 Pillar and lamp post with designs similar to the ones at Platform No 2 and 3 will be installed on Platform No 1 too.
 
 The official said “The authorities will also try to provide illumination to the state building to add to the beauty of the building in evenings.” 
 
 Though the WR had undertaken the restoration work on the century-old building, and appointed conservation architect Abha Narain Lambah as consultant in 2009, the plan was not implemented after the repairs. Railways had spent Rs 63 lakh to restore the heritage building and the work included removal of ad hoc roof additions and replacing it with a “heritage-sensitive roof”, removing the paint on wooden members to expose the framework and then polish them, refilling of stone masonry joints with lime mortar and fixing the doors and windows.
 
