INDORE: A youth was beaten to death by four persons, including a minor, over a money dispute at a flat in   here in early hours of Thursday.

 The accused attempted to dispose of the body, but fled the flat fearing that they would be identified by the neighbours.
 
 Body of  , 23, was found tied up in a blanket in the flat when personnel of a morning patrol team of Lasudia police peeked through the window after receiving tip-off about commotion in the locality, additional superintendent of police Rakesh Singh told reporters.
 
 The body had multiple injury marks on the head. A polythene bag was placed on the head and tied at the neck to prevent the blood from spreading across the floor, he said.
 
 Panic spread in the residential locality when news about the killing spread and police teams gathered to seal off the flat and nearby area.
 
 While ascertaining identity of the victim, Investigators initially received information that he was one Krishna. But in a couple of hours after the body was found, Krishna appeared before police, throwing off the line of investigation.
 
 The deceased was later identified as one Ganesh, an employee of a private firm operating from Scheme No. 78.
 
 Neighbours told the police that they had seen four youths fleeing from the spot on a motorcycle at around 3am. They also claimed that they heard loud music and commotion indicating at a fight during the night.
 
 Probe officers finally zoomed in on four of Ganesh's acquaintances, who visited him on Wednesday night - Rishab Raghuvanshi, Mohit alias Sunny Yadav,   and a minor.
 
 Lucky Waskale and the minor accomplice were traced near Bawadi Hanuman temple and were taken into custody. The confessed of killing Ganesh over a dispute related to money.
 
 "Ganesh had been badmouthing Rishab over money a loan that the latter did not pay back. Rishab and others decided to teach Ganesh a lesson and reached his house in the night," ASP Singh said.
 
 The accused picked up a fight with Ganesh following which Rishab hit him on the head with the iron rod. As Ganesh fell, Mohit also hit him with the rod; he said adding Ganesh died on the spot.
 
 The accused tried to dispose of the body, but later fled the spot fearing that they would be identified, the ASP added.
 
 Police have arrested Lucky and the minor accomplice in the murder. Attempts were on trace Rishab and Mohit, he added.
 
