BAGAHA/PATNA: After successfully executing the mammoth exercise of organising Prakashotsava celebrations in Patna, CM Nitish Kumar started his two-day long jungle retreat on Saturday with a wildlife safari at Manguraha, a forest range at   (VTR), around 290km northwest of Patna.

 The CM flew from Patna to Manguraha on Saturday morning on a helicopter along with chief secretary   and forests and environment department principal secretary Vivek kumar Singh. After paying obeisance at the historic Sofa temple, he went on a three- hour Safari on an open-jeep, during which he saw deer, chital, Sambar and even tiger pugmarks. 
 
 The CM asked senior officials to develop eco-tourism facilities at Sofa temple and the surrounding areas to attract tourists. “There could not have been a better place for developing eco-tourism facilities than this region, stretching from Sofa temple till  . Officials have been asked to come up with detailed project reports for development of Sofa temple and surrounding areas to promote tourism in the region,” Nitish told reporters after paying obeisance at the Sofa temple.
 
 Nitish also asked officials to take necessary steps to prevent soil erosion at Sofa temple as he saw eroded parts of forests area by turbulent Pandai river, which originate from Nepal. Besides, he asked officials to get historic Sofa temple inspected by archaeologists in order to preserve it in better way.
 
 Following visit at Sofa temple, Nitish went around Manguraha range and saw animals in the wild. He also inspected the eco-tourism schemes taken up by forests department over the past couple of years. “We want to develop and promote eco-tourism facilities at VTR so that local tribes and other traditional forest dwellers could earn their livelihood,” said Nitish.
 
 Other officials present with the CM included Tirhut range DIG Gopal Prasad, West Champaran DM Lokesh Kumar Singh, West Champaran SP Vinay Kumar, Narkatiaganj SDM Arbind Mandal and SDPO Aman Kumar.
 
 Nitish left Manguraha around 4pm to spend the night at Valmiki Nagar, where he stayed in a bamboo hut. A senior forest department official said the CM would undertake a jungle safari on Sunday followed by a canopy walk atop trees. He is scheduled to return to Patna in the evening.
 
 Various options of eco-tourism, including jungle safari and trekking, are already available at VTR. Tourists have a number of options for lodging, including forest guest houses at Madanpur, Manguraha, Ganauli and Govardhana ranges. Two eco huts were inaugurated at Kotraha and Madanpur ranges in November 2012. Besides, there are six eco huts at Gobardhana and Naurangia Don ranges. Old and depilated wooden watch towers and guest houses have also been renovated recently. 
 
