THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Appunni, manager cum driver of actor Dileep, and a suspect in the conspiracy case related to actress abduction and rape is learnt to have gone underground. Sources in police told TOI that the probe team couldn't contact   for the last two days. He was supposed to appear for interrogation before the team on Tuesday morning. Police didn't get any info regarding him till Wednesday evening. 

 "His mobile phone is switched off; he is not there in any of the places he is supposed to be in," said a senior police officer.
 
 With Dileep's arrest, the probe team would focus on actor-director  , Appunni and advocate   who is believed to have received the original video of assault from 'Pulsar' Suni.
 
  The police want to ascertain if Nadirshah and Appunni have direct involvement with the incident. Since their statements were found to be contradictory on various aspects, the probe will focus on them, sources said. 
 
 State police chief   said that the probe is far from over, as conspiracies have to be probed from multiple angles. "Investigation has only begun. Some evidences are there but since there are many other aspects that need examination as far as conspiracy is concerned, in-depth investigation will have to be undertaken," Behera told TOI.
 
 Police have plans to interrogate Nadirshah and Appunni again. The probe will foray into areas like the money transactions of the actor, real estate dealings and also the foreign trips undertaken by them, to see if such aspects have any direct link with the incident. Both of them were earlier interrogated along with Dileep at the police club, Aluva. 
 
 SIT has no evidence so far to link Dileep's wife and actor   and her family to the incident. 
 
 This is despite the fact that the first accused 'Pulsar' Sunil had stated that after the incident he had gone to the online store Lakshyah under the ownership of the actress at Kakkanad.
 
 The hard disk of the closed circuit cameras have been confiscated by the police, but the visuals have been found overwritten as months have passed after the incident. The storage capacity of the device used to record the visuals was also limited. Sources said that the hard disk will be scientifically examined so that the automatically erased visuals can be accessed. The police will also record the statements of advocate Pratheesh Chacko, who was named by Sunil to whom he had handed over his phone after the incident.
 
 Sources denied the report that the state police chief had interrogated Dileep through video-conferencing as reported in a section of media. "The probe team is in complete command and there was no intervention from police chief in the investigation," sources said. 
 
 
