KOCHI: Comparative studies which can have a significant influence in India is yet missing from the academic scenes in the country according to  , Professor of Religious Studies at   who has authored 5 books on religious traditions in India, majorly Hinduism. Haberman was in the city on Wednesday along with a group of students who docked in Kochi as a part of Semester at Sea (SAS) - the world's premier shipboard education program founded in 1963.

 “There is no study of comparative religion courses in Indian universities, with a few couple of exceptions maybe. I think it would be good for India. I think India will have a unique contribution to make to the comparative study of religions. But mostly comparative study in religions still use western theorists and Hinduism is a system that looks at unity in diversity simultaneously and that’s the message the world needs,” Haberman said.
 
 The team which came along with other 600 odd students pursuing different courses from different parts of the world are here to visit the temples and other sites relevant to Hindu heritage as a part of the Comparative Studies in Religion course they are taking.
 
 “The course is pivotal in throwing light on why Hinduism is so misunderstood in the west by learning the history of it and how it came to being. It also looks into how to find a better language for others to communicate ideas like ‘moorthipooja’ which is roughly but wrongly termed as idol worship which is a very negative concept in Christianity in particular,” said Haberman, who is in charge of the course at SAS.
 
 The 17 students who are pursuing the course consider themselves as ‘academic tourists’, having full-fledged classes when on board and tours of the lands and cultures they learnt once the ship docks. “We are focusing on Asian and African religions this time. We visited the Shiva temple in the morning and we have two more temples in the itinerary for today,” Nikky, a student in the group said. The group also visited Sharath Kumar’s   for watching a   performance.
 
 The professor who has visited India over 30 times said that he has noticed significant changes in the country and believes that this type of an academic course will pave way for the students to mingle and understand their fellow beings more closely and open-mindedly.
 
 “There is more involvement of people in religious rituals like in pilgrimages here. And when we consider the world on whole, there are fundamentalist activities in all religious traditions and we have to resist them. It’s more about dividing people and not uniting people. It’s a tragedy that we have to resist,” Haberman said. He added that this generation is more focused on pursuing courses on business and the like and the affinity for subjects that come under humanities are dropping.
 
 “When I was in college, studying comparative religion was a big thing but nowadays, unfortunately everyone wants to study things like business. Even the federal government back in my country is pulling away funds from these kind of academics and studies, which is sad,” Haberman said. “I have proposed to my friends in Banaras to start a comparative religions study or course here. If they do, I’d love to come join and contribute in whichever way I can,” he added.
 
