HYDERABAD: It is an SOS situation for nine Indian crew members, including the captain of a merchant ship   at Ajman port, UAE. There 10 holes and sea water has entered the deck. The ship was almost in a situation of sinking as the   because of   and  .

 Reacting swiftly to the ship in distress, two other ships of Indian sailors went to their rescue and ensured that it drifted to the shore where it has been grounded.
 
 Captain of the ship Pratap Ananya cannot start the ship engine as the generator room has been filled with water. All their food provisions, including rice bags and flour bags have come under water. For the last 12 hours, the nine crew members have barely eaten except for being able to make some tea.
 
 Around midnight, the achor of the ship got cut off due to the swell in the sea. As the situation was turning to be critical, two ships went to their rescue and helped them to the shore. “It was rough weather and we saw that they needed help,” said captain Anoop Pathak of MV Salem said. The wind speed was 55 km/hour and the sea swell was 2.2 metre. As a result, the anchor rope of MV Rock broke.
 
 When contacted, Captain Pratap Ananya of MV Rock told TOI from his ship at Ajman that the ship was not being allowed to come into the port. That will need the owner’s permission. If the crew members make any attempt to get to the port they will be arrested, is what they have been told by the owner.
 
 MV Rock has been ‘grounded’ in the sense that it’s bottom has touched the ground in the sea. The anchor has got cut off. And it is not even being pulled back to the shore. The owner Dr Ahmed ostensibly does not want the crew to come back to land. He has informed the captain that he will send the required provisions, provide anchor and get the ship pushed back into the sea.
 
 The ship used to transport oil for the owner but there is nothing in it right now. The ship, along with three other ships, have simply been anchored. There are 41 Indian sailors in four ships.
 
 “None of the crew members want to get back into the sea. We want to be taken to the port and we want to leave for India. We are asking the owner to settle our salary dues. We are in dangerous situation,” Captain Ananya Pratap.
 
 Since early on Sunday morning, Captain Anoop Pathak, the captain of another ship been sending SOS messages in twitter. Informing about the conditions of Captain Ananya Pratap’s ship MV Rock, he said in a series of tweets: “Can’t start generator because of water on deck. Please contact Ananya on +971568219303.
 
 They need help immediately. Please send someone to help Pratap Ananya and his crew and check ship conditions. They need help. Please rescue them. Please do something for Rock and its crew. Rock can’t start generator because of water on deck. This is an emergency please someone help to get them to port. They are grounded and ship has full of water on deck and engine room. Owner says if they come on land police will arrest them. Please don’t let them die. Take them to port and let them stay there until our case is solved.”
 
