MUMBAI: The Supreme Court has ordered that the all-India quota in deemed universities and government medical colleges will be filled by the Director General of Health Sciences, New Delhi. This will include deemed universities run by religious and linguistic minorities. The quota is 15% for UG courses and 50% for PG courses.Till the year before last, deemed universities conducted their own exams and admitted all students. Last year, after losing a case in the SC in the middle of the admission process, they admitted students based on NEET rankings.

 As for common counselling for state quota seats in government and private medical colleges (including institutions run by minorities) affiliated to state universities, it will be conducted by state governments or authorities designated by states. States also have to conduct two rounds of centralized counselling for the all-India quota and process admissions on behalf of deemed universities and private colleges.
 
 The apex court has ruled that cheques for tuition fees should be collected by the state's admissions body . After the second round of counselling for all-India seats, students who take admission should not be permitted to vacate the seats, the SC has ruled.
 
 “This would ensure that very few seats are reverted to the state quota and also all-India quota seats are filed by students from only the all-India merit list. Students who secure admission in deemed universities after the second round of counselling... shall not be eligible to participate in any other counselling round,“ the SC ruled on a writ petition filed by Dar-us-Slam  .The case was versus the  .
 
 As per the order, the notifi cation to be issued by states on common counselling should also provide the fee structure of deemed universities and private medical colleges. “Students who secure admission to MBBS courses after the common counselling conducted by the state government should be made to deposit with the counselling committee the demand draft towards fees. The admission or counselling committee shall forward the demand draft to the institution,“ the order said. This requirement is because “it has been time and again noticed that when students report to a college after counselling, they are refused admission on some pretext... and it is shown by the college as if the student never reported for admission“.
 
 After counselling, the state government shall determine the number of seats still vacant and thereafter forward a list of students in order of merit, equalling ten times the number of vacant seats, to colleges so that if there is a stray vacancy in any college, the seat can be filled from this expanded list, the SC said.
 
