COIMBATORE: M R P Ravanan, a close relative of   general secretary  , was acquitted in two different cases of abduction and cheating by the third additional district and sessions judge court and   –VI here on Tuesday.

 Ravanan, son-in-law of one of Sasikala’s paternal uncles, was active in AIADMK from 2000 to 2010 and influential among cadres in the western belt. He was also held sway in selection of candidates for assembly elections. He was expelled from the party by former chief minister   in 2011.
 
 On January 27, 2012, V Ravikumar, a   department contractor from Kitchagathiyur near Sirumugai lodged a complaint with the district crime branch (DCB) police. In his complaint, Ravikumar said Ravanan’s personal assistant Mohan met him at his residence in May 2011 and requested him to meet Ravanan.
 
 Ravikumar along with his friend Paramesh Kumar met Ravanan at the godown of a mill owned by the latter on Trichy Road. In the meeting, Ravanan allegedly sought Rs 10 lakh as donation from Ravikumar and warned that no contract work from any local body would be awarded to him if he refused to pay the amount. When Ravikumar disagreed to the demand, he was allegedly threatened by Ravanan and his henchmen. 
 
 On October 9, 2011, Mohan along with few other men barged into Ravikumar’s house and took him to meet Ravanan at knife-point in a car to Raga Oil Mill godown. The complainant had alleged that Ravanan attacked him with weapons. He was told that he would be confined to the godown if he did not pay Rs 10 lakh. Later, Ravikumar was released after his friend Paramesh Kumar handed over the money to Ravanan.
 
 Based on Ravikumar’s complaint, Ravanan and Mohan were arrested by the DCB police and lodged at the Coimbatore central prison. The police filed a chargesheet against Ravanan and the case trial was held before the third additional district and sessions judge court. He was booked on the charges of abduction for ransom, wrongful confinement, criminal intimidation, extortion and criminal conspiracy.
 
 On February 12, 2012, Coimbatore city crime branch police registered a cheating and criminal intimidation case against Ravanan and Mohan. They allegedly cheated A Ponnusamy, 55, a member of the AIADMK and a government contractor, of Rs 5 lakh. The case trial took place before the judicial magistrate court.
 
 Advocate R Kalaiarasu appeared on behalf of Ravanan in both the cases and the two courts pronounced the verdict on Tuesday. Ravanan and his accomplice were acquitted in both the cases. 
 
