GOA: Most bureaucrats would be biting their nails in anticipation of the assembly election results. For many, their life, or rather posting, would depend on it, but Vasant Mohan Prabudesai has little to worry about.
 
  Whoever assumes power, Prabhudesai would remain the unanimous choice for the two most influential sports postings — director of sports and youth affairs (DSYA), and executive director of the  . Except for a brief period between 2012 and 2014, Prabudesai has reigned over Goan sports like King Momo during Carnival since 2000, a period that saw five chief ministers, all of whom entrusted Goan sports in his broad hands.
  
  Perhaps Prabhudesai knows the art of survival; maybe it’s the goodwill of his late father Mohan — an extremely popular sarpanch during his time, who was close to Goa’s first chief minister   — that helps him sail through. But you must give credit where it is due: there is hardly any sportsperson who will tell you that he approached Prabhudesai and he didn’t do enough.
  
  “You will never hear any complaint about me. I never keep a single piece of paper, or file, pending,” says Prabhudesai, speaking to us behind closed doors at the   in Taleigao. “If there are a hundred directions to be given, I would do that. If I have to sign a thousand times in a single day, I would do that as well.”
  
  Prabhudesai needs massive investment of his time everyday to meet the growing demands of sports in Goa, and somehow, he spares time for everything.
  
  “Between 9am and 7pm, I am in office or on official duty, but I always tell officers and staff that I am available from six (in the morning) till midnight,” said Prabhudesai, happily married to Shraddha, an outstanding kabaddi player.
  
  How could this son of a sarpanch, who many believed had a future in politics, turn such an able administrator, and so soon?
  
  As a youngster, sport was Prabhudesai’s forte. Whether it was regular sports or indigenous games, he adjusted himself to the rigours and almost always came out trumps.
  
  But Prabhudesai didn’t go far on the field. He could have, particularly in cricket — his first love — but no sooner than he moved to Margao at 15 from Pernem, where he was previously based, and became secretary of Damodar Sports Club a year later, than the ‘administrator’ in him took charge.
  
  “I got into organization at a very young age with associations like kabaddi and handball. Cricket, somehow, was put on the backburner and I was so busy administering different sports that the player in me was killed,” remembers Prabhudesai, who was influenced to take to sports administration by his maternal uncle and mentor,  .
  
  It’s not commonly known that Prabhudesai was an accomplished handball coach, or that he was in the forefront of the first Kabaddi nationals held in Goa in 1985. What the world knows is that he joined the directorate of sports and cultural affairs in 1986 and was assigned the role of stadium manager when the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda was built in 1989 by the then sports minister Francisco Monte Cruz.
  
  “Monte Cruz created a career for me,” says Prabhudesai. “It was a huge opportunity for me to take charge of the stadium and manage big crowds for every football game.”
  
  After eight years at the stadium, Prabhudesai was promoted as deputy director in 1997, and, within three years, rose to the rank of executive director of the Sports Authority of Goa.
  
  “I’ve always been helpful. My instinct of helping people came from my father. I want to do things which he could not do,” says Prabhudesai, who lost his father when he was only six.
  
  Despite his helpful nature and ability to work for long hours, the state government has not always been impressed. In 2012, for instance, he was removed as executive director, and, after a brief comeback, lost power again in the aftermath of the infamous 2014 World Cup junket to Brazil by four Goan MLAs.
  
  “I would like to forget those days as I was punished for no fault of mine. All along, I have survived through my good deeds, work, knowledge, expertise and non-corrupt ways,” he said.
  
  At the age of 55, Prabhudesai, a follower of Swami Vivekananda, knows that he will not have too long a time at SAG and DSYA. May be then he can devote more time to all his other loves: singing bhajans, trekking, hiking, bird watching, lecturing, mentoring and reading.
  
  This man has been a genuine all-rounder, in the true sense of the word.
