RANCHI: In what way is   different from investment summits events held across the country?

 Momentum   is designed to advise investors about how Jharkhand is emerging as a prime candidate in the investment space. The summit has attracted almost 30 countries and four of them have become its partners. The trade exhibition is bringing together some 200 exhibitors to showcase their products. The state enjoys immense natural resources with 25% of steel output and a vibrant manufacturing sector of automobiles, heavy machinery and equipment. These advantages position it well in the Indian investment domain.
 
  Does the international business community believe that Jharkhand is equipped to attract investments? 
 
 Jharkhand is among the most competitive and investment-ready states with a clear vision and roadmap. It ranks among the best in terms of business reforms and has implemented advanced practices for facilitation of investments. It is proactively engaging in the central government’s flagship Make in India, Start Up India and Stand Up India initiatives. This is a state where industrial conflicts are few. That Jharkhand figures high on the Directorate of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP) list on ease of doing business parameters is a pointer to the progress the state has made. I am sure this has created a lot of positive vibes among the investors. We expect some big announcements at the two-day summit.
 
  What does Jharkhand lack?
 
 Jharkhand is actively working on developing the required ecosystem, including financial services, urban amenities and transport. Its sectors of opportunity include Ranchi as a  , with a well-articulated plan that has helped bring it within the campaign. In addition, it is working on generating employment in sectors such as textiles, leather, footwear and mining. In this sense, it is closely aligned with the national development plans of job creation. We are working with the state government on skill development and entrepreneurship creation. 
 
  What is the CII’s role as a partner of the summit? 
 
 CII has been associated with the event right from the conceptualisation stage. We have worked with the state government in developing policy framework and sector specific policies for attracting investments. CII has been involved in the roadshows, and we have gone all out to present the many advantages of the state’s industrial climate and its resources to investors across the world. CII is also engaged in making the trade exhibition a success. The event has the potential to encourage prospective investors about the high quality of goods produced here. The seminars and conferences present specific sector specific opportunities and will showcase the best investment areas.
 
 
