Gurgaon: Assamese actor and singer   Bezbaruah’s husband   Jha was produced in a city court on Wednesday and taken on a day's police  .

 Police sources said a preliminary probe had indicated that Nisheeth was in a relationship with an office   based in  . Bidisha's father had alleged Nisheeth's extra-marital   drove her to suicide on Monday evening at the   flat the couple had moved in to just a day ago. 
 
 Immediately after getting his custody, cops took Nisheeth to a friend’s place in Ghaziabad and recovered his   from there. He had visited his friend’s house first while returning to Gurgaon from Mumbai on Tuesday and left his cellphone there, police said.
 
 Police sources said that Nisheeth’s call records had revealed he was in constant touch with a particular number, which could be that of his female colleague. He had gone to Mumbai to meet this colleague, sources said. “The reason behind Bidisha’s suicide could be the extra-marital affair of her husband. We have recovered his mobile phone and are investigating the case. The picture will be clear soon,” Deepak Saharan, DCP (east), said. Meanwhile, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday ordered police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar to expedite the investigation.
 
 Bidisha was found dead inside her ninth floor flat, hanging from a ceiling fan with a dupatta tied around her neck. Nisheeth, who is originally from Gujarat, works for AFCONS India. They got married on April 28 last year.
 
 An FIR has been registered against Nisheeth under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC at Sushant Lok police station and he was arrested on Tuesday evening.
 
 Bidisha's father Aswini Kumar Bezbaruah said on Wednesday his daughter was mentally disturbed due to her husband’s extra-marital affair. “Around six months ago, their marriage was on the verge of collapse after Bidisha came to know about her husband’s affair. But our family and Nisheeth’s family intervened and saved their marriage. But even after Nisheeth's transfer from Mumbai to Gurgaon, Bidisha was upset as he was still continuing with the affair,” said Aswini.
 
 Bidisha’s former teacher at Indian Institute of Mass communication, Delhi, Shashwati Goswami, said she knew about Nisheeth's affair. 
 
 “Bidisha was more than a student for me. It was in June this year that I got to know she was disturbed as her   was having an affair. But when I had called her on June 29, she did not tell me anything. She is not a person who can commit suicide. A fair investigation is the need of the hour,” Goswami, an associate professor, said.
 
 
