INDORE: The Indore bench of   on Monday directed the  , Indore in-charge to appear before it in connection to a petition regarding a protest by members of a minority community at Regal Square in December 2015. The in-charge will have to appear before the court if the state government fails to file a status report by next week.

 The order reserved by a division bench of   and Justice Virendra Singh on March 1, was released on Monday with these instructions.
 
 The state government, on two previous occasions, had been asked to file a status report before the court explaining why police had not arrested nine persons responsible for the protest against whom serious charges had been pressed.
 
 The court had sought explanation on this point on January 27 and had also asked the ATS in-charge to submit his affidavit in support of the status report.
 
 The state had been granted three weeks to file its reply. However, the state again sought one week to file the report.
 
 “The court gave the state government and ATS chief a last opportunity to file the reply through their counsel by next week and if the status report is not filed in the stipulated time, the superintendent of Police of   will have to be present in court,” KK Kunhare, counsel to petitioner Jitendra Yadav said.
 
 On December 8, members of a minority community had gathered at Regal Square demanding action against Kamlesh Tiwari, a Hindu Mahasabha leader from Uttar Pradesh, who had allegedly made controversial comments. Soon, the protest turned violent as the angry community members started pelting stones at a building and attacked passing cars and auto rickshaws.
 
 The petition had been filed at the high court seeking action actions against the protesters as well as the administration for inaction and negligence of duties.
 
 Following the incident, FIR against 10 named persons had been registered, but only one accused had been arrested by the police.
 
 The court in its order directed the state government to submit an explanation as to why they (the nine other accused persons) have not been arrested when serious charge has been made against them.
 
