NAGPUR: Nearly 300 persons who had lost their hand had something to cheer about on Sunday. After all, the portable hands came as a blessing for them to move on in life.

 To bring back happiness in the life of persons who lost their hands in accident or who were born with some kind of deformity, Rotary Club has initiated a programme to distribute portable hand. As part of this,   had organized a camp for free distribution of prosthetic limb at Platinum Hall, Mundle Blind School, near   square, on Sunday.
 
 Rotary Club of Indore Uptown has been running many humanitarian projects for the last 26 years. In 2015-16, the Club Uptown started working with ‘LN4’ project to provide artificial hands to the needy. The Ellen Meadows Prosthetic Hand Foundation from the USA fabricates this hand which weighs 400gms and can help lift anything up to 12 kg. The hand made up of brass, stainless steel with fiber is also dust, water and temperature resistant.
 
 Rotary Club initiated this event with Concost Associates and District Disability Rehabilitation Centre, (DDRC), Nagpur.
 
 The camp was divided into registration and verification stages. Then followed photo-in/out where pictures of the needy were taken before and after providing them with the required treatment. At the OT, the prosthetic limb was fixed and the needy were provided with training on how to use it. This was followed by counselling session. Every beneficiary was provided with a personal assistant in the form of a Rotarian.
 
 “These portable hands are a blessing for the disabled. Nearly 300 hands were distributed today,” said Tarun Mishra, chairman, LN4 hand project, Indore.
 
 “People have come from far off places like Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Delhi and even Bareilly,” said Pradeep Thakkar, president, Rotary Club of Nagpur Mihan Town.
 
 “This portable hand can be planted even if you have a minimum 4.5 inch of your forearms attached to your elbow. We also treat those who cannot be provided with the portable hand in the absence of any extension beyond elbow,” said Abhijit Raut, project coordinator, DDRC, Nagpur.
 
 (Reporting by Shubham Nagdeve)
 
 
