JAMMU: Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister   rejected the Opposition’s demand of judicial probe in more than 95 killings that took place in Kashmir last year.
 
  She ordered setting up of district-level teams to investigate the deaths. The Chief Minister claimed that the summer protests were planned and well executed during which, children were made shield to attack police and   camps.
  
  Mufti said she was convinced that only in two killings-ATM guard in Srinagar by   and another lecturer in Khrew by Army, excesses have been committed and SIT would submit a report in a time-bound manner and the guilty won’t be spared.
  
  She was taking part in a debate on the five-month uprising in Valley triggered after the killing of   commander   on July 8, during which, more than 95 civilians were killed, over 13,000 injured and around 12,000 arrested.
  
  She also announced an ex-gratia relief of .`5 lakh in favour of the next of kin of those killed in summer and mentioned the possibility of providing jobs in cases of extreme compassion.
  
  Job opportunities would be made available to the persons who lost their eyesight during the crises. For the students whose eyesight was impacted, Mufti said arrangements would be made for their studies in New Delhi and other places. She said she has already spoken to the Prime Minister and Union   in this regard.
  
  “There is no doubt in the fact that this should not have happened and that too when I was in chair. It was not expected of me. People didn’t expect this of me. This is very saddening. We lost so many lives,” said Mufti, while addressing the assembly.
  
  “I was the one to save many children from the army camps, where they faced many atrocities.”
  
  The opposition demanded a judicial probe led by a retired Supreme Court Judge to be set up for probe into 2016 uprising in a time bound manner. They also disrupted the assembly proceedings for the whole day over the issue.
  
  “Let district-level investigations team come up with reports in time bound manner, then we can proceed further if needed,” she said.
