CHENNAI: Claims of ancient giant burial urns in a site notified by Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has come in the way of building the satellite bus terminus at Kilambakkam on  .

 An initiative of   (CMDA), the facility would de-congest Chennai Mofussil Bus Terminus at Koyambedu with buses bound for the southern districts departing from the new terminus.
 
 CMDA sources said the plot identified for the terminus is located near a site notified by the ASI. “There are claims that ancient giant burial urns (mudhumakkal thazhi) are present at the notified site,” a CMDA official, privy to developments, said. Mudhumakkal thazhi is part of an ancient funeral system among Tamils dating back to more than 2,000 years. Rules of Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act have restrictions and regulate construction within 200m of a protected site.
 
 But it is not clear what excavation work has been done by the ASI. According to sources, the 88 acres of land earmarked for the proposed bus terminus falls under three categories of regulated constructions as per the act. “We will discuss with ASI officials next week to resolve the issue,” the official said.
 
 Kilambakkam is the fourth location identified by the planning authority for the satellite bus terminus. While the government decided to set up an inter-city bus terminal at Velachery in 2011, the proposal was shifted to Vandalur a few years later. The project faced stiff opposition from farmers who refused to part with their fertile agricultural land. As the planning authority was contemplating on a piece of land at Nandivaram in Guduvanchery last year, the revenue department in Kancheepuram district transferred the present plot to the CMDA for the new bus terminus. Now authorities are planning to have another access for the proposed bus terminus through Vandalur-Kelambakkam Road as well. “We will take up the issue with the forest department as a portion of land required for the pathway belongs to them,” the official said.
 
