PUNE: The Bombay   has upheld the Savitribai Phule Pune University’s position that the benefit of grace marks cannot be given by counting total marks scored on different heads of a subject. 

 It said the benefit can be given only for passing in each head theory, practical, oral and sessional as per the maximum permissible limit prescribed in a university ordinance.
 
 In a ruling on March 7, the high court bench of Justices Shantanu S Kemkar and Prakash D Naik dismissed the petition by a student from an engineering college in Kothrud here seeking grace marks against his total score in the theory and the online exams for the   subject.
 
 The student had failed in six subjects in the second-year civil engineering exams held in May last year. After revaluation, he cleared two subjects strength of material and surveying. However, he was declared failed in Geotechnical Engineering. His provisional admission to third-year civil engineering was cancelled as he had failed in more than three subjects and he has to repeat his second-year.
 
 The 100-mark Geotechnical Engineering subject featured theory and online papers of 50 marks each, and a candidate was required to score total 40 marks to clear the subject. The minimum prescribed marks for passing the theory and the online heads, however, were 15 out of 50 marks. 
 
 In his petition, the student said his original marksheet, issued on June 21, 2016, showed 10 marks in the theory paper and 25 marks in the online paper for a total of 35 out of 100 marks in Geotechnical Engineering.
 
 After revaluation, his theory marks were shown as 13, an increase of 3 marks. Yet, in a fresh marksheet, the university showed his theory marks as 12, and declared him failed in the subject, the student said.
 
 He pleaded that the university be directed to consider his theory marks as 13, and considering that the 3-mark difference represented an increase by 5% of the total marks of 50, he be given the benefit of grace marks. He pleaded that since the Geotechnical Engineering subject was of 100 marks, he was entitled for 3 grace marks as per the university’s Ordinance No 1.
 
 Lawyer  , representing the university, submitted that the 10 marks for theory paper in the original marksheet was the result of a miscalculation. It was corrected to 12, and these were the examinee’s original marks. 
 
 After revaluation, there was an increase of only 1 mark, which is less than 5% of the total marks, and hence the student was declared failed. 
 
 The bench said, “We find that the relief prayed by the petitioner cannot be granted. We have perused the original answersheet. We noted that there was miscalculation in answersheet relating to theory and it was rectified from 10 marks to 12.” 
 
 “The petitioner has failed in revaluation as there was an increase of ‘1’ mark, which does not amount to 5% increase of the head of passing. The petitioner is not entitled to get the benefit of 3 grace marks as per the Ordinance 1 as the interpretation made by the petitioner is incorrect,” the bench said, citing provisions of the Ordinance. 
 
 The bench also added that even if he was given grace marks, the student would not have passed as he was eligible to only get grace marks of 2 according to the university’s ordinance. This would bring his total in the theory paper to only 14, and not the passing mark of 15. 
 
