 (Varanasi): Prime Minister  's model village Jayapur in Varanasi district, about 30 km from Varanasi city, is small but rich in a variety of vegetable and marigold plants. Modi adopted this village in November 2014. It's an entirely exclusively Hindu village without any Muslims. Villagers proudly show off the solar-panel lit streets, two banks, gaushala, Nandghar or creche and spinning centre for women. 

 But, there are also complaints about Jayapur's crumbling roads, lack of an Ambedkar park and rickety unusable toilets. However all agree that notebandi has been a great social leveller and will not have any adverse impact on the BJP's poll prospects. "Jo upar the woh neeche aa gaye," says village pradhan Sri Narayan Patel, "notebandi has made everybody equal and been a social leveller. If people were angry they would be on the streets. But there are no protests anywhere in India. There will be no adverse effect of notebandi in UP elections this time as BJP is heading towards a clear majority."
  
 In the harijan quarter of the village, however, voices are angry. Dalit residents of Jayapur point to the statue of Ambedkar erected by PM Modi, and lament that the paint is peeling, the statue is uncovered and the ladder built for garlanding is so rickety that there's a danger of it collapsing. "A lot of promises were made to us," says Ramji, an agricultural labourer, "but the roads of the village are broken, there's no playground for our kids and every day Ambedkar is being insulted and dishonoured." So are the villagers in Modi's own village giving him a thumbs down on infrastructure? "I think this time   will win," says Jitendra Kumar. "The Lohia grams are much better than our village." What about Mayawati? " What has Mayawati done for us," demands Ramji, "the BSP elephant has turned into her own family for whose enrichment she is working. We are angry at the bhed bhav done to Dalits, we follow Ambedkar's teachings. Mayawati doesn't." 
 
 Jayapur's Musahar basti, renamed Atal Nagar, has been re-built by PM Modi with a set of 14 pucca houses equipped with toilets, running water and electricity. But Musahars -- the rat catchers or one of the poorest castes -- say there are too few houses. "Only 14 houses have been built," says Chameli, a housewife and mother of four. "The others are still in jhopris." Dalits here say that collectors don't even want to visit the Harijan quarter. "None of the district officers even come to our section of the village," says Raju Bharti, a Dalit youth.
  
 The newly built gaushala however is spacious. A dozen well looked after cows chomp steadily. Next to the gaushala is the village "Prashikshan Kaksh" or spinning centre with a photo of PM Modi on the charkha prominently displayed. "Women are being taught to spin but they have still not been given free charkhas as was promised," says Krishnawati. Jayapur has a "Village Knowledge Centre" where they gather to listen to Modi's mann ki baat. Do they listen to mann ki baat often? "Not so often," confesses Shiv Kumar Giri, a local teacher. 
 
 The majority mood in Jayapur is that the BJP is heading towards a clear win. "Modi is in everybody's hearts, " says Panchayat member Kripa Shankar, "he is the only man who is not in the grip of parivaarwaad: others are only working for their own families." But will the lack of a UP face as a CM candidate damage the BJP? "Whoever becomes the CM becomes a UP face," says Shiv Kumar Giri, "who knew Kalyan Singh before he became CM? The kamal (lotus) is blooming across UP."
  
 Jayapur is plagued by infrastructural woes. The roads are crumbling and perilously unstable. Batteries of many of the solar lights have been stolen. Toilets are so flimsy that villagers feel scared to use them in case the roofs collapse. But villagers refuse to blame Modi. "There is too much corruption at the local level," says Anil. "Modiji's intentions are good. There is no jaati ki rajneeti in UP this time, we are all committed to vikaas. Those who work for us will be rewarded. We feel Modiji has to be given more time to see what he can do."
  
 Most of Jayapur's inhabitants are members of the RSS and regularly attend shakhas in their village. Are they worried about Hindu-Muslim conflicts? "The RSS teaches us yoga and deshbhakti," says pradhan, Narayan Patel. "Why does RDX and beef products only come from Muslim homes?Those who abuse bharat mata and cheer for Pakistan in a cricket match have no place in India."
  
 Are the youth attracted towards the "UP ke ladke, aage badhke" slogan of the Akhilesh-Rahul gathbandhan? "They are only actors," says Bache Lal, a student, "bahurupiya. First Rahul said '27 saal UP behaal', now he is together with Akhilesh. There is a lot of rivalry between SP and Congress, so how will they manage to work together?" 
 
 "Akhilesh represents goondaraj," says Kanti Prasad, "people like Azam Khan are given a free rein and the police is put under pressure. We want a rashtravaadi neta in UP." There is resounding approval here for Modi's 'shamshaan-kabrastan' statement. "Many Hindus are upset that there is not enough space next to the river for shamshan. We want to follow the Gujarat model in villages where shamshan areas are created in the middle of fields," says Manoj Kumar Verma, a local who takes pride that when Modi visited Jayapur, the PM's chopper landed in his field.
  
 Residents of Jayapur feel their way of thinking reflects the mood across UP. "Whoever wins or loses in the elections, Hindu rashtravaadi sentiments are the future bhavna of UP," says Vishwanath, another panchayat member, "We have all become awakened to nationalist thinking and the vikaas of Modi. Across UP yeh sabse badi ideology hain, there is no other ideology left." In spite of the infrastructure complaints in Jayapur, residents say whatever the results in these polls, the BJP is UP's no. 1 party.
 
 
