JODHPUR: Torrential rain has wreaked devastation in Mount Abu, the only hill station of the   

 Over 2,000 tourists were stranded at the hill station after a major   and blocked the only road connecting Mount Abu with the Abu Road in its foothill, on wee hours of Wednesday morning. The administration has initiated a relief operation and has stopped the traffic on the road.
 
 “The debris of the rock was removed by Wednesday afternoon and traffic resumed at 2 pm,’’ confirmed  , district collector, Sirohi. 
 
 Several tourists from the neighbouring state of Gujarat were stranded at the hill station for the past two days but the roads connectivity to Palanpur and Ambaji was restored on Wednesday. In one such major rescue operation, 150 tourists from Gujarat and Rajasthan, stranded for 3 days in Rebariyon ka Goliya in Sirohi district were rescued by the administration and sent to their respective destination on Wednesday. 
 
 Part of the safety wall of the lake had collapsed on Tuesday due to over flowing. Precautionary measures have been put in place at the broken part and boating and all the activities around the lake have been suspended as a measure of safety. During past one week of the torrential rains, boating and all the activities around the lake have been suspended as a measure of safety. “These tourists were surrounded by 8 ft water and the villagers took proper care of all these tourists with open heart. Finally, the information about these 150 tourists being stranded in the village, administration reached them on Tuesday and put them at the Pawapuri pilgrim place”, said the official. The administration has rescued about 800 stranded persons in the Sirohi district.
 
 Meanwhile, the town has received about 72 inches rain in past 73 hours. Though, the spell of rain has ceased on Wednesday but the land slide has caused by heavy rains has blocked the road to the hill town. According to met officials, Mt. Abu has received 2752 mm rain since June 1 and all the dams and the main attraction of the tourist town,   has been flowing over its bank.
 
