Chandigarh: Panjab University’s community radio station 91.2 FM Jyotirgamaya organised a health awareness camp at Government Model Senior Secondary School of Dhanas village on Saturday.

 The objective was to educatethe rural community through radio programme ‘Sehat Ka Vardaan, Naari Ka Sammaan’, with the support of National Council for Science and Technology Communication (NCSTC), New Delhi, and Punjab State Council for Science and Technology (PSCST), Chandigarh. Dr KS Bath of the Punjab council and Archana R Singh from the   School of Communication Studies are principal investigator and co-investigator of this endeavour under the project ‘Science for women’s health and nutrition’. 
 
 During the camp, Dr Inderpal highlighted the causes of dengue fever, swine flu, chikungunya, and malaria and suggested preventive measures such as controlling the breeding of mosquitoes. Dr Swapanjeet educated the villagers about nutritious food for a healthy body. She said girls, especially, should be fed properly, since they menstruate and require more nutrition. She also shared contraception tips with married women and advised adolescent girls about sexual relationships.
 
 Women of all age groups attended the camp and sought information about various diseases. Radio 91.2 Jyotirgamaya also briefed them about the objectives of the programme ‘Sehat Ka Vardaan, Naari Ka Sammaan’. The programme is on air for now a year and it covers topics related to women’s health, besides social and psychological problems. Members of the community members, student volunteers from the PU School of Communication Studies, and teams from the other campus departments help produce the radio show, which is planned to have 365 episodes.
 
 Radio 91.2 Jyotirgamaya also provided the villagers with refreshment. Host school vice-principal Seema applauded the Radio Jyotirgamaya team for running the educative show and aware camp for village people. She also appreciated its campaign for women’s awareness. Sunil Sharma of Radio Jyotirgamaya said attempt had been to involve maximum members of the community in the programme.
 
 Dr KS Bath and Archana R Singh thanked the Chandigarh doctors, volunteers and members of the community who participated in the radio show and related programmes. The last episode will be broadcast on July 31. 
 
 
