CHANDIGARH: Kharar MLA and senior AAP leader   in a  , has raised objections to the method adopted to reorganise the state unit under party chief   Sandhu warns this could end up weakening the party. According to Sandhu who is currently in Toronto, says no introspection on the poll setback was done before restructuring the state unit. 

 In the post titled “AAP: Repeating mistakes yet again” posted on his Facebook page, which Sandhu confirmed to TOI as his official page, he says, “I have been reaching out on my view on the structuring of the AAP in Punjab and appointment of Bhagwant Mann and Aman Arora as President/ Co-President. The answer is not simple. Individuals matter but there is much more to it. In my view, instead of rejuvenating and strengthening the Punjab unit of AAP, the manner of its reorganisation on Monday (May 8, 2017) could end up weakening it.”
 
 And he adds, “Monday’s exercise should have been preceded by an honest stocktaking, fixation of responsibility and introspection of party's performance in 2017 Punjab polls. And this should have been done by MPs, MLAs and old volunteers in and outside Punjab. Who were the people responsible for what happened? Was the overall strategy correct? This should have been followed by charting up of a clear roadmap of the Punjab unit for the future. ‘Reorganizing the party’ by merely changing horses without any introspection is repeating the same mistakes that resulted in party’s debacle in 2017 Vidhan Sabha polls,” 
 
 Sandhu has added, “What is worse is that we have gone ahead with its reorganisation without listening to the overseas and NRI units whose support was overwhelming. Many of them have met me in Toronto (I am here on urgent family exigency - will be back in Punjab end-May) and expressed their disappointment. That does not augur well for the Party. I wish the Punjab senior leadership had gotten together, brainstormed and shown a unity of purpose, at least now. Unfortunately, we have decided to move ahead towards the Gurdaspur bypoll and then the 2019 Lok Sabha polls somewhat divided - and blindfolded yet again.” 
 
 
