 has always been fascinated by India’s rich history and mythology. In fact, his tryst with the past has set new benchmarks on Indian television. After creating a cult with ' ', the director-producer has now embarked on a new journey — the historical series, ' '. The show revolves around the man who defended our country against the mighty Alexander. Today, as its first teaser is set to launch on Sony Entertainment Television, Siddharth talks exclusively to BT about his mega venture and why he prefers to be known as a game-changer. Excerpts...

 
 
 History is written by those who ruled, I like telling stories of inspirational characters. The channel wanted me to make a show that celebrates the golden age of India. That’s when I thought about 'Porus', a story set around 350 BC — a time when India was the richest nation and was known as the Golden Sparrow. Our riches attracted many invaders and Alexander, the biggest conqueror in the world, set his eyes on us. It was Porus who stopped him from entering India, by waging a war on the banks of river Jhelum. This is the story of India’s first defender. He may have lost the battle, but he won the war. 
 
 
 
 I won’t comment on the figures, but yes, this is one of the biggest and most expensive series on Indian television. But more than the budget, it is a dream come true for me.
 
 
 
 I am blessed, as it’s not just a creative challenge, but I also learn from the whole process. Every aspect of our mythology has so much to learn from, there is a reason why they are still relevant today. Before writing even a word, I need to understand what are they actually trying to say, what the subtext of the story is... it’s only then that I can have my own opinion and make it relevant to the viewers today. So, it’s not just plain entertainment, it has got a deeper message for viewers and that’s what really works for me. It has actually changed me over the years as an individual. I believe that our history and mythology is really cool. 
 
 
 
 Great actors create characters, so it’s really important that an actor is excited to play the part assigned to him. We support them in all aspects to help them visualise the era that the series is based in. A lot of time has been spent on pre-production, it has been a year since we started training them in every aspect — be it rowing classes, horse riding or diction training. We also have Persian Greek and Chinese characters, who speak Hindi, but in distinct accents. Language plays an important role in a series of this magnitude. We sent our actors much ahead of the Thailand schedule to become certified divers so that we could shoot some underwater sequences. 
 
 
 
 To begin with, writing is the soul of the series. Then, there are the characters, costumes, and production design. It was not easy to recreate the Golden Age of India and the Macedonian world. But the biggest challenge was to recreate the water transport route of the yore, which is the most hatke aspect the show. 
 
 
 
 Yes, we own 100 per cent IPR. It’s the best way to improve the quality of content, as it leads to direct accountability. We have invested heavily in the series. Sony is the anchor broadcaster and they have underwritten part of the cost. They will have the first right of television broadcast in india and wherever the footprint of the channel goes, but the rest of the rights stay with us. It’s a huge risk, but we are creating a world-class series, which can travel to any digital platform in the world and be showcased in any language across the globe. That’s the way we optimise our business. It’s the first time in India and it’s definitely a great leap for content as it will ensure that the viewer comes first. We don’t make shows just for the sake of it, we only create what we believe in and more importantly, we put our money where our mouth is. I thank the channel for backing us to take this bold big step.
 
 
 
 It has been a great challenge. From the day I started writing to shooting it, the journey has been really exciting. Writing all these characters and recreating their worlds was a big high. I am most excited about depciting trade through water. In a first on Indian television, we have constructed ports and ships. Special detailing has gone to show the life and times of that era, be it what people wore, ate or how they moved around. Creating two visually different worlds, very distinctly different characters who are very similar at the core... just that their desires and challenges made them who they were. It’s a visual extravaganza with rivetting conflicts. Overall, a must watch for everyone.
 
 Watch the first teaser of 'Porus' tonight at 8 on Sony Entertainment Television.
 
