A healthy   life plays an important role in our overall wellness. Many studies have proved that people who have an active sex life, maintain a healthy mental and physical health. But is it safe to indulge in intimate sessions when your partner is chumming? Or does   alleviate cramps and pain? There are a lot of queries that revolve around period sex we have tried to resolve here:

 
 
 
 According to Dr Anuradha Kapur, Director and Head of Unit - Institute of Obs and Gynae, Max Smart Super Specialty Hospital, Saket, “It is not safe to have sex when your partner is menstruating as the chances of contracting infections is very high – especially for men who don’t use condom.”
 
 Despite the fact that your partner is menstruating, you can always enjoy foreplay. Remember, having   can be messy. So if you want to still indulge in intimate sessions, take extra precautions.
  
  
 “There are no benefits as such. However, from a hygiene perspective, it is not very clean and can cause discomfort and infections to both the partners," says Dr Kapur.
  
 The extra lubrication can make period sex more exciting. This may increase the chances of the partner entering too hard, which can bother the cervix and make things even worse.
  
 
 
  
 It is a myth that women can’t get pregnant during their periods. Although, it is unlikely that this will happen but it can still happen. Dr Kapur says, “The chances of getting pregnant are very low as the ovulation cycle starts after 14 days. But, we have seen cases where women get pregnant because of their high fertility or when the sperm quality is healthy.”
  
 So, why to take a chance? Play safe and keep things under control.
  
 
 
 “There is no specific position for period sex,” suggests Dr Kapur.
 
 But if you want to have sex during periods, go for missionary. This is the position which makes things less messy.
 
 
 
 It is never a good idea to have sex while wearing a tampon. As tampon is inserted in the same area, it makes period sex painful. Also, in case tampon is pushed deep inside the vagina, it may make things even more complicated.
 
