Ludhiana: A 30-year-old man allegedly killed his elder brother just over the use of a table fan on a humid day in Halwara on Wednesday.

 The deceased was identified as Darshan Singh, 40. Police officials said Darshan was the eldest of the three siblings and the accused Dalbir Singh, 30, was the youngest. They all worked as labourers.
 
 Cops said like a routine day, the three brothers left for work in the morning on Wednesday. They added that when the trio returned in the evening, two of them (Darshan and Dalbir) were drunk. Police officials said while Balvir, the middle brother, was having dinner with his mother and other family members, Darshan went out in the verandah after finishing dinner and asked Dalbir to give him a faratta fan (pedestal fan), as he wanted to use it in the room.
 
 Balvir, who had lodged a complaint with the police following the incident, said his younger brother Dalbir, who was yet to have dinner, told Darshan that he won’t give the fan as he wanted to use it. He added that this led to heated arguments between his two brothers.
 
 Balvir further said his brothers started pulling the fan towards their sides, and in the process the platform and body of the fan got separated. He added that in a fit of rage, Dalbir pulled out a wooden log and hit his brother in the head, after which the latter fell down.
 
 Balvir said he was having dinner inside and rushed out after hearing the shouts of his brothers. He said even as he tried to intervene, Dalbir hit Darshan and also got injured on his arm. As the news about the murder spread in the area, village sarpanch Charan Singh reached the spot and informed the police. Cops from Sudhar police station started a probe into the matter.
 
 Police have booked Dalbir under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). They have also shifted Darshan’s body to the civil hospital for the post-mortem examination.
 
 Inspector Ranjeet Singh Sudhar, SHO, Sudhar police station, said Dalbir was arrested from the area. He added that preliminary investigation suggested that both the brothers were drunk at the time of the incident.
 
 They said according to family members, the duo had never fought before this incident, adding that of the three brothers, only Balvir was married. Cops added that Dalbir killed his brother with the single stroke of a wooden log.
 
 
