JAIPUR:   (ACB) on Monday night busted a   inside   after it detained Jailor Batti Lal Meena for allegedly taking a   through his middleman Hansraj. They were taking bribe from the family members of jail inmates for facilitating better food and protection against dreaded prisoners who threaten new inmates.

 Meena was detained by the sleuths of ACB on late Monday night while he was accepting a bribe of Rs 12,500 from the kin of a jail inmate through Hansraj near the Central Jail in Kota. The cops raided the official quarter of Meena and seized expensive bottles of wines, costly gifts, jewellery and cash worth Rs 85,000. However, soon after he was detained, he complained of chest pain due to which he was admitted to hospital.
 
 “Hansraj and another middleman Imran have been arrested whereas Meena is admitted into hospital due to which he was not arrested on Tuesday, we have written to the medical broad to this effect, “ACB’s additional SP Thakur Chander Sheel Kumar told TOI over the phone. 
 
 He added that information about the alleged involvement of Meena receiving kickbacks was received a few days ago, after which he was put under technical surveillance. 
 
 “Meena had forged a nexus with dreaded inmates of the prison who harass new inmates and compel them to do jobs such as cleaning toilets. Meena through Imran and Hansraj would demand bribe from the kin of inmates to provide protection against such rogue inmates,” Sheel told TOI, adding that accused also demanded kickbacks for proving ‘better services’ within jail premises. 
 
 Sheel said that Meena tried to runway in his vehicles when they spotted the ACB teams approaching them; however, they were followed and apprehended by the ACB. 
 
 The sleuths of ACB are also probing if Meena also facilitated the supply of contrabands into jail. 
 
 
 
 
 Local administration on Tuesday carried out the inspection of the   Central Jail and found that one mobile charger and battery from a hard core inamte’s jail. “We have found the mobile charger and other banned material inside the cell of Anoop Pahadia, a hardcore criminal, he is also reportedly closed to the detained   BL Meena,” an official said.
 
 The inspection team also found that jammers inside the prison were nonfunctional. “This is a serious matter as we have come across several irregularities in the cells, it speak volumes about the racket which was operated by Meena,” the official said.
 
 
