Vangapahad (Warangal):   Mamidala, who left home to purse an MS in Computer Science in the US in 2014, reportedly didn’t even have enough money to visit his parents, who live in this small village in India.

 “We had to take loans to send him for his studies,” a shaken and distraught Sanjeeva Reddy, Vamsi’s father said, after hearing he might have fallen victim to an attempted car jacking incident in the US. His wife, Rama Devi was inconsolable and passed out a few times after receiving news about Vamsi.
 
 “We got a call from one of my son’s friends saying Vamsi is missing and could be the victim of a shooting incident,” Sanjeeva Reddy said. “We hope it is not Vamsi who was the victim. We have no official information about his whereabouts or if it was him who was shot,” he said.
 
 An early morning phone call from one of Vamsi’s friends in Milpitas of San Fransisco sent alarm bells ringing in the family. The caller informed the family that Vamsi may have been shot and killed while he was in the garage even as the Milpitas police rushed into the garage following a gun shot report. The police were chasing a reported car jacker who was tracked to the garage where the body of a gun shot victim was also found.
 
 The Mamidala family is hoping that another bit of information given by Vamsi’s friends – that he has been missing for three days and was incommunicado – is true and that the young man returns to his apartment safe and sound.
 
 Vamsi had gone to the US in 2014 to pursue a masters degree in computer science at Silicon Valley University in San Jose, California. He finished his degree and has been searching for a job. When he called last, he said was very worried about finding a job with the new US president making things tough for non-Americans. “We were hoping he would find a job, become financially stable and help the family pay back the loans and take care of us later,” Reddy said.
 
 Vamsi had completed his BTech degree from Vathsalya Institute of Science & Technology in Bhuvanagiri of Nalgonda district. He has a sister who is married and lives with her family in Hyderabad. Vamsi’s parents are farmers. “We saved for a long time to make his dream of studying in the US come true,” a tearful Reddy said. He hoped the Warangal police, who came to collect information about his son, would be able to tell them what actually happened to Vamsi soon.
 
 
