NEW DELHI: With sacked minister   levelling a slew of allegations, chief minister Arvind   on Sunday claimed that he “would have been in jail had there been any truth in the allegations against me”. Brushing aside Mishra’s contention, Kejriwal said: “Even all investigative agencies could not find anything against me.”

 Addressing a convention of AAP workers, the party convener said: “Our movement has came under heavy attack in the recent past. It’s a matter of happiness. It indicates that they (Opposition) are scared of us.” Top AAP functionaries attended the convention that sought to strengthen the party at the booth level.
 
 Kejriwal had so far maintained complete silence on the allegations even though Mishra threatened to catch him by the collar and drag him from the CM’s chair all the way to Tihar Jail. Mishra alleged that “Kejriwal was directly linked with   and crores of rupees were funnelled into AAP’s coffers with his knowledge, but he turned a blind eye to it”.
 
 Kejriwal said: “It hurts when your own people betray you. God will show the path forward, if he wants (us) to do something.” Mishra was one of the trusted lieutenants of Kejriwal and served as water minister in his cabinet for a long time. “What should I say about these frivolous allegations? People, including my opponents, are not able to believe these them.” 
 
 The CM briefly touched upon the issue of EVMs, saying “they (Opposition) have captured the EVMs.” 
 
 The party didn’t allow media at the convention site. AAP volunteers tweeted quotes of Kejriwal from the party’s official twitter handle besides uploading video footage. Kejriwal said he would interact with people through Google Hangout at different assembly constituencies on the first Sunday of every month at 7pm.
 
 Kejriwal said he, along with all AAP MLAs and ministers, would meet people every day at 10am without appointment. “On Saturday and Sunday, all MLAs and ministers will visits their areas.”
 
 The party launched a special campaign, ‘Mera Booth Sabse Majboot’, in the wake of a humiliating defeat in the recently concluded civic polls. The convention was attended by members of AAP’s political affairs committee as well.
 
