PUNE: The city division of the   has approved installation of closed circuit television ( ) cameras in Rajiv Gandhi IT Park, Hinjewadi. It has sent the file to its head office in Mumbai for final approval.

 Officials of Hinjewadi Industries Association (HIA), which has got this first-level of clearance for the long-pending project, are now hopeful that all decks would be cleared quickly in the new financial year.
 
 The project would be funded by the MIDC. The cameras would be installed on the basis of a survey report jointly prepared by the HIA and the local police.
 
 As suggested in the report, which was recently tabled before the state industrial development body, the camera network will monitor all points of ingress and egress of the IT Park. It is likely to cover all gaps in surveillance not captured by the cameras installed by the companies inside the IT Park.
 
 The CCTV camera network has been a long-standing demand of HIA, especially in light of the rise in crimes against people inside the IT Park over the past two years, including the most recent murder of software professional Rasila Raju.
 
 Mayank Gupta, head of the security committee of HIA, said, “All ground-level surveys and clearances are done. It took a long time to do a complete survey as the IT Park has expanded. Now that it's gone for final clearance, I hope it won't take much time.“
 
 Local officials of MIDC, however, are tight-lipped about it. When asked,  , regional manager in-charge of the IT Park only said, “It has gone to the head office from here. All subsequent decisions are now in their hands“.
 
 Highlighting the urgent need for electronic surveillance in the IT Park,  , member of HIA's managing committee, said the CCTV network would be of strategic importance for the IT Park and would also help police with surveillance.
 
 Commissioner of police   said that it was equally important to regularly monitor the CCTV output. “It's no use just installing these cameras if they are not being watched round the clock. The monitoring duty should be rotated every one-and-a-half to two hours for it to be really effective. The audit of the CCTV network must be done on a daily basis,“ she said during the launch of the `Buddy Cop' programme for the IT Park on Friday.
 
