FIROZABAD: In a complete overhaul, top officials of Firozabad district, including the district magistrate (DM), a sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) and the superintendent of police (SP) have been removed by the   following complaints by the BJP that the senior officials were favouring the ruling   during the elections.

 The commission removed DM Rajesh Prakash, SDM (Shikohabad) Premchand Yadav and SP Himanshu Kumar and appointed new officials in their place.
 
 New DM Neha Sharma, and Ajay Kumar as new SP took their charge on Friday, while Ambareesh Kumar (as new SDM of Shikohabad) is expected to join office in a couple of days.
 
 On polling day (February 11), several BJP leaders were allegedly thrashed by SP leaders including zila panchayat president Vijay Pratap Yadav inside the Shikohabad police station in front of cops. Among others, BJP Braj area president Suman Chaturvedi had received injuries.
 
 BJP leaders had reportedly gone to the police station to report scuffles between their party workers and those of the SP at several booths. Later in the night, BJP candidates and workers staged protest outside the district collectorate to register their protest against the alleged assault.
 
 Senior officials at that time had assured the protesting crowd that appropriate action against the erring cops as well as accused SP leaders would be taken within 24 hours. Subsequently, an FIR was registered against Vijay Pratap Yadav, Surya Dev, Awadesh Yadav and 40 unidentified men of the SP. 
 
 Along with that, an FIR was also registered against several BJP workers and leaders including Atul Pratap Singh, son of Jaiveer Singh, who is contesting election from Sirsaganj constituency, a day later. 
 
 Later, another FIR was registered against three BJP candidates and 500 unnamed party workers for staging a protest outside the DM’s office on February 11. Those who were named in the FIR were Jaiveer Singh, sitting MLA and candidate from Firozabad Manish Asija, and Shikohabad candidate Mukesh Verma.
 
 The BJP had termed the police action a conspiracy and alleged that the bureaucracy was acting on the behest of the ruling party in the state.
 
 On February 25, BJP leaders including Jaiveer Singh, Mukesh Verma and Jasrana candidate Ram Gopal alias Pappu Lodhi among others met the chief election commissioner and submitted a 250-page complaint, demanding strict action against the senior officials. 
 
 Earlier, the EC had removed Firozabad additional police superintendent (rural) Amar Singh, circle officer V K Tiwari and station officer (Sirsaganj) Brijveer Singh on similar complaints.
 
