NAGPUR: Categorically rejecting claims of a   that he was reformed after reading the Gandhian philosophy, the Supreme Court, on Wednesday, confirmed the death sentence of   for brutally raping and killing a four-year-old girl — Muskan — on April 3, 2008.

 A three-judge bench comprising justice Dipak Misra,   and Uday Lalit held that no case is made out for review while dismissing the plea filed by the 55-year-old, currently lodged in Nagpur Central Jail. “The aggravating circumstances and barbaric manner in which the four-year-old was killed clearly outweigh the mitigating circumstances,” they said, while upholding Nagpur Sessions Court verdict by additional sessions judge AS Shiwankar on September 29, 2010.
 
 While referring to the chain of events, the apex court observed that the convict lured the girl, raped her, and then battered her to death using two heavy stones. “It’s nothing but a monstrous burial of her dignity in darkness.”
 
 Besides being convicted under Section 302 of IPC, the perpetrator was also found guilty under Sections 376 (2) (f), 367, 363 and 201. For rape and kidnapping, the trial court awarded him lifer along seven years rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs3,000. After the case came up for hearing in the high court, the accused argued that four out of 17 witnesses were testified in the absence of his lawyer. His case was then referred back to the sessions court, where additional sessions judge GJ Akarte also maintained same punishment on February 23, 2012.
 
 His capital punishment was later upheld by the Nagpur bench of   on March 27, 2012. “While rape is an outrage of womanhood, rape of a 4-year-old girl by a full grown man also exhibits a perverted mind. He would continue to be a menace to the society,” the then division bench comprising justice PV Hardas and justice SS Jadhav held before dismissing Dupare’s criminal appeal.
 
 Dupare, a noted history-sheeter with four offences, then challenged the HC verdict in the apex court but his Special Leave Petition (SLP) was dismissed on November 26, 2014. Later, he filed a review plea, which the SC agreed to examine on July 14 last year.
 
 While sentencing Dupare to the gallows, the Nagpur bench had observed that the aggravating circumstances would have shocked the conscience of community in general. “A tragedy of unimaginable magnitude fraught with pain and anguish and having calamitous consequences occurred in the victim’s family. The accused acted in the most diabolical manner and designedly lured the unsuspecting girl. 
 
 Crime is committed in an extremely cruel manner exhibiting brutality and utter perversity. He is not displaying any remorse or repentance for the act done by him,” the judges said, while citing Dupare’s criminal records.
 
 Even the sessions court had asserted that there was no hope for his improvement and any compassion to him will amount to disrespect of feelings of common people and injustice to the society.
 
