Darjeeling: Land rights and land utilisation have always been burning issues in the plains. Chief minister   took up these issues to the Hills ahead of municipal polls.

 The chief minister promised land rights to the settlers in   — which had been declared a notified area during the Left Front regime — and also floated development plans for  .
 
 Bimal Gurung’s GJM, however, has opposed the move. The GJM-run Gokhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) has threatened to move the Supreme Court against the ongoing construction work which are allegedly downplaying the religious significance of the Tiger Hill that hosts Ma Senchel Dham (Durga Temple). Also, no environment impact assessment had been done for the project, it was alleged. GJM has threatened a 24-hour bandh in the Hills against this.
 
 With the promise of providing land rights to settlers, support to entrepreneurs and developing tea and tourism industry in the area, the CM on Thursday declared Mirik as a new sub-division. The announcement came a few weeks after Kalimpong was made the 21st district of Bengal.
 
 Mamata has promised to look into the land rights settlers issue in nine municipal wards within the notified area. These wards are surrounded by three tea gardens — Okaiti, Phuguri and Thurbo.
 
 “I have come to know that many residents of Mirik live in the town area. I talked to my chief, home and land secretaries who have accompanied me today. We will conduct a survey and then take an official decision to allot you an address with holding numbers or land right,” Mamata said.
 
 Former state urban development minister and CPM leader Asok Bhattacharya said, “Mirik was declared a notified area by the Jyoti Basu government. The government built a college, a court and a block office by resuming land from tea gardens. There are many areas in the Hills such as Sukhiapkhri, Ghum where land belongs to tea gardens. This is nothing new. We started giving resident settlement rights to the people.”
 
 The state tourism department has pumped in Rs 40 crore for the project at Tiger Hill, to build four cottages, and a 20-bedded dormitory. On Thursday, GJM assistant secretary, Binay Tamang said the land measuring 31.85 acres in Tiger Hill where the construction work was taking place, belonged to the hill council. Armed with official documents, Tamang said, “The total area was handed over to the DGHC in 2002 as per a state government order. In addition to the land, property comprising two damaged buildings was also transferred to the DGHC”.
 
