PANAJI/MARGAO/CANACONA: Most   within 500 metres of state and national highways downed their shutters on Saturday in adherence to the   order, as the first day of the ban saw large-scale compliance by the traders.

 Goa, as a popular tourist destination known all over India for the multiplicity of its liquor outlets and huge sales daily, witnessed low key activity, with only a few continuing to flout the apex court ban. While the signage of bars, and restaurants with bars disappeared under black paint, amidst a pall of gloom descending on the industry, the excise officials who patrolled stretches of the highways had to coerce errant liquor vendors into compliance. The sale was being continued clandestinely, though largely, compliance among many owners of bars and restaurants could be seen, some even doing away with their bar menus.
 
 STOI also came across a few wine shops along the NH 17 stretch between Mapusa and Patradevi that were doing brisk business on Saturday. An outlet at Dhargal had its premises open, prompting a rush of customers while this violation of the ban was also reported in areas of Margao and some stretches of the highways.
 
 A few vendors even resorted to innovative methods to tap business. A Colvale bar owner had shut his shop, but began selling alcohol illegally at the adjacent general store. Seeing the media persons, he tried to shoo away customers only to resume the activity later.
 
 A taluka-level team headed by an excise inspector went round verifying the implementation of the ban. The officials had even instructed restaurants with bars to put up signs about non-sale of liquor.
 
 But some traders justified their business arguing that they are yet to receive the SC order copy. 
 
 In Margao and adjacent areas, while most shut their outlets, a few of them were partially or completely open on Saturday evening.
 
 A few excise officials even met with resistance in some areas, as the bar owners in Margao challenged them and refused to shut their premises.
 
 “My bar has been running since 1952 so how can I abruptly shut it down without a prior excise department notice,” proprietor of a   bar, Xavier Fernandes said.
 
 The traders complained that they were in the dark whether their outlets fall within 500 metres or not. 
 
 Fernandes, who is vice-secretary of All Goa Bar and   Association met in Porvorim on Saturday to deliberate about next steps.
 
 Vijay Parab, who runs a bar/restaurant below the   flyover also told STOI that he had not received any notice in this regard.
 
 In Canacona with a long stretch of highway, but with outlets concentrated on Goa-Karwar border most of the bars were closed.
 
 The southern taluka has 463 outlets and 174 bars, wholesale sale and retail liquor shops will be affected by the decision of the court order. 
 
 In Loliem, the border village, a total of 50 bars, 17 liquor outlets and wholesale liquor shops will have to shut shop while only 2 bars on Polem beach will survive. These outlets are popular among the clientele from nearby Karnataka, liquor is comparatively cheaper here.
 
