Nagpur: Even as the health care system has seen rapid advancements over the years, the country has witnessed minuscule progress in the field of research in physiology. This is evident from the fact that in the year 2014-15, total 43,689 publications came out from all 421 medical colleges of the country, including eight premier institutions. The contribution of the department of physiology was, however, just 0.82%. Revealing these figures, chancellor of Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences Deemed University, Dr Ved Prakash Mishra, rued the fact that the field of physiology hasn’t grown much in the country. Mishra also talked about the poor research work being carried out in private clinics. “If we talk about our country’s private clinical set-ups, the conversion of their clinical work into research material is mere 4.2%, while in a small country like Poland their utilization is 92%. In the US, their utilization rate is 72%, while even China manages it to an extent of 52%.” Lamenting that physiology has not received due attention in India, Mishra pointed out that in the US, the Association of Physiology of Indian origin doctors is of utmost importance there. “The association is consulted by the Senate before taking any policy decision,” he said. Mishra was speaking on Sunday, at the installation ceremony of Academy of Physiology (AOP) where Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGMCH) physiology department head Dr Mrunal Phatak was installed as the new president, while professor of physiology in NKP Salve Institute of Medical Sciences (SIMS) as the new secretary. The ceremony was organized at the new surgical complex of IGMCH where Indian Medical Association (IMA) president Dr Vaishali Khandait was the chief guest. Mishra was felicitated by Phatak for being honoured with the prestigious Dr BC Roy award recently. On the same occasion, AOP went digital by inaugurating its web page by Khandait. The online page consists of all the details of upcoming as well as past events organized by the AOP, details of its members and an option to get registered with the AOP. In coming days, the AOP will be going a step ahead by forming its own website funded by Mishra. The very first newsletter of the AOP was also launched on the occasion. A daylong CME on Physiology of Sleep and Sleep studies was also organized following the installation. Other office-bearers of the AOP include Dr Neelam Mishra from Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) as immediate past president, Dr Manish Sawane from NKPSIMS as vice president, Dr Pravin Jadhao from GMCH, Gondia, as joint secretary, Dr Anil Warkar from GMCH, Akola, as treasurer.