AHMEDABAD: Gujarat’s first woman police chief, the 1982-batch   officer Geetha Johri, has had her highs and lows during her 35 years in the police service.

 Johri feels her crackdown on the dreaded Abdul Latif gang in 1992-93 as deputy commissioner of police (DCP) in Ahmedabad was the high point of her career. 
 
  “But being made an accused in the   and Tulsiram Prajapati encounter cases by the   was a career low,” Johri said. “It is really tough for you and your family in such circumstances but it is your training as an IPS officer that helps you. Such lows in your career help you become stronger.” 
 
 It may be recalled that Johri, then IGP (CID crime) was included in the SIT set up by the   to investigate nine riot cases of 2002. But the riot victims sensed some foul play and made allegations against the IPS officer. 
 
 “The Supreme Court then asked Johri to stay away from the probe and an inquiry was handed over to SIT member, DIG AK Malhotra. Though the inquiry report did not substantiate the allegations against Johri, she stayed away from the probe,” a senior police officer said. 
 
 When asked about her daring in trying to catch Abdul Latif and his gang in Dariyapur, her face lit up. 
 
 “I had almost caught Latif,” Johri said. “During the operation, I was nearly killed by a bullet fired by Latif’s sharpshooter, Sharif Khan. I did manage to catch Khan but he later escaped from police custody and is still an absconder.”
 
 Johri did not mince words when asked about illegal slaughterhouses in  . “The state government is committed to the new stringent law against cow slaughter and the new prohibition law, and so is the police,” Johari said. “We will crackdown on bootleggers and illegal slaughterhouses in the state.” 
 
 However her priority remains crimes against women and general law and order as the state heads for assembly polls.
 
 “We need to go the extra mile to ensure women’s safety,” Johri said. “We will also have to watchful about law and order in Gujarat as this is an election year. There will be more   movements in the state including that of the Prime Minister.”
 
 In the wake of the recent Vadavli riots, Johri warned all communal forces and said anti-social elements will not be spared.
 
 Johri went on to praise her predecessor in office, PP Pandey, and said that he had done his job with full commitment and that she would continue the good work done by him.
 
 ‘Women in distress can contact me directly’
 
 Geetha Johri said women’s safety is her priority. “Women feeling unsafe and in distress can contact me directly. I will do all I can to help them,” she said. 
 
