MEERUT: Amidst the ongoing up-roar over increasing cost of school education in the country, parents struggling with the issue in Meerut held a symbolic protest on Saturday. 

 A large group of parents from across the spectrum gathered in a market in  , and as a symbolic protest, begged wearing a suit and tie. “It is a symbolic protest. Since, schools are now being taken over by corporates and are fully driven by profit motive, we wore suits and ties to reflect that”, said  , one of the parents present at the protest.
 
  Parents in the city have been up in arms since many months against increasing school fees and other related costs, calling it an ‘appropriation’ on the part of schools.
  
 “Schools have been increasing their fees over 15 percent every year. Parents are being made to pay through their noses. Then they charge separately for uniform and books. We have to buy books in addition to the NCERT books. 
 
 That is another additional cost. All in all, at some schools parents have to shell out as much as Rs 1 lakh for a year of education. We will have to beg now to pay for the education of our children”, said  , as he held out a bowl symbolically to ‘beg’.
 
 “It is not true that fees have been raised exorbitantly. We raise fees only judiciously. This year we raised 10 percent, not 15 percent. We are aware that we need to keep education affordable. But, we also have to be aware of sustainability of the school. We have to think about rising costs associated with running a school”, said HN Raut, principal of Dewan Public school.
 
 “Unfortunately, education has become like any other business activity now. Schools are only concerned about profit. Students and their parents are treated as clients who have to be exploited. Schools try to extract the maximum amount of money from parents. That is what has become of education”, said Krishna Dhaka, an education activist in the city.
  
 A few parents on Thursday approached the Divisional Commissioner of Meerut and wrote a letter to him, seeking his intervention. “We will take these complaints forward. We will follow up on them”,  , Divisional Commissioner of Meerut, told the parents.
