Mumbai: The Bombay high   on Friday rebuked the state government for setting up committees rather than taking action to provide basic facilities to curb deaths of children in ashram schools in Maharashtra’s tribal areas.

 A bench of Justice Rajendra Savant and Justice Sadhana Jadhav heard a public interest   by Pune resident Ravindra Talpe on the dearth of basic facilities in these residential schools, which resulted in fatalities and urged ex-gratia to deceased students’ parents. The petition said 793 children died in the last decade due to snake and scorpion bites, fever and minor illnesses. 
 
 Talpe’s advocate Uday Warunjikar said   made recommendations in December 2014 but government appointed committees for considering them. “Despite the court’s order for implementation, one committee after another is appointed,” he said. 
 
 The judges said the question is whether the government really wants to act or appoint committees. “We want the government to take action on the ground. It is the state’s obligation. Such pitiable condition of ashram schools,” remarked Justice Savant. “You don’t have toilets. In winter children are sent out in the open to have bath. You want to curb deaths in this manner? Ridiculous!” exclaimed Justice Jadhav. When Warunjikar said there has to be sensitization of officers, Justice Jadhav disagreed, “It is their responsibility. What sensitization? This is breach of their duties.” Warunjikar said 50% posts of female wardens are vacant and “68% of girls are not having separate beds or bedding and have to sleep on the floor.”
 
 The judges, in their order, said the PIL was filed in 2013 and “any proactive action is yet to see the light of the day after period of 4 years has lapsed”. They directed immediate action be taken to appoint female wardens and to provide tubelights, bulbs, fire extinguishers, mattresses and toilets within the school premises. They also directed that students receive immediate medical attention and “female students provided all necessary items for protection of hygiene”. 
 
 
