They all agree equivocally — among all the roles they have played on screen in their careers, none even comes remotely close to the one they are currently busy with in real life — the mother. The new mommys of the television world let’s us know how life has changed since being blessed with the tots..

 
 
 
  
  
 Life has become a multi-hued spectrum of myriad emotions... happiness, anxiety, smiles and fears... in one word, crazy! Before the birth of my son, I had heard a heart beating within my body, but since his birth, I feel like my heart beats only at the sight of my baby. I had so many dreams and desires of my own. But, they have all just faded into oblivion since Arain came into my life. Currently, I am celebrating the majesty of motherhood. I fall short of words when I want to thank destiny for my bundle of joy and magic. My world does not revolve around my child, I say this in all sincerity, he is my world. After becoming a mum, my respect for women who manage home and family simultaneously, has only multiplied. 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 Change is inevitable and having a baby is one of the most progressive changes that can happen to a woman. While everyone knows how wonderful it is to give birth to a child, there are many responsibilities that come with it, too. But firstly, let me gush about what a great feeling it is to constantly keep watching my little one — her fingers, her toes and to think that all of this was created inside me. However, I would like to say that having a baby is not like having a toy, that once she or he grows up, the excitement is over. Arya will be my responsibility for life. Even today, my mother says that she worries about me. So my advice to couples is to think it through before having a child. Another great change that happened to me after Arya, is that my insomnia is now cured! I was suffering from a serious sleep problem, but after she was born, I am always looking for time to doze off. I keep forgetting things as my phone is always on silent mode and I am constantly fussing after her. But, I guess, that’s just the lighter part of this huge responsibility.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 Life found its true meaning when my son, Reyansh, was born. I never thought I could be so caring and emotional. I thought becoming a mother is like any other job before I got married. After Reyansh, life changed in such a way that now, everything is planned with my baby being the centre of it. He is my priority now. Earlier it was about my health and my desires, but now, I plan everything in life keeping Reyansh’s needs in mind. Also, I must say, I have finally realised, what a task it is for a working mother to balance both.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 Being able to give birth is one of the most fascinating wonders of nature. You can not explain it, unless you have experienced it. I had no idea about the kind of changes I would be facing after becoming a mother. But today, I can’t imagine my life without her. My daughter has added stability to my life. It is amazing the amount of selfless and unconditional love I am capable of feeling for her. Yes, there certainly are periods of anxiousness and sometimes you do feel like you’re being driven up the wall, but again, those are just part of being a mother. Soon, she is going to outgrow it all and I will probably miss fretting about her all the time. The thought of her growing up and maybe not needing me as much already hurts and scares me. Guess that’s what being a mother is all about. For now, I want to enjoy every minute with her. No matter where I am throughout the day, I run back to be with her in the evenings. Late night parties, going out for a quick joyride or a date with the husband might be somewhat difficult, now that we have diaper bags and feeding bottles accompanying us all the time, but trust me, am not complaining and neither is my husband. I go shopping for myself and come back with bags full of clothes and toys for her. I love motherhood, and that fact is the only constant.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 Being a mother has been the most crazy, glorious, loveable and humbling experience of my life. My days aren’t the same and nor are the nights. My chocolate-eyed boy   inspires me to lead a better life and be a better person everyday. My husband calls him his ‘World Cup’ every time he picks Rudranssh up. It makes me feel that we have won it all. I have experienced the purest form of love and I hope everyone gets to experience it, too. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 Life has only changed for better after Myrah was born. There is a sudden positivity and life in the house because everyone is running around after her. Of course you suffer from sleepless nights and body aches, but all of that is just a part of the limitless happiness you feel when you are around the baby. One should take this whole experience of becoming a mother with a lot of positive energy and happiness. 
 
  
  
 
 
