PANAJI/MARGAO: With the much-publicized “electoral understanding” between Congress and   (GFP) hitting a wall, two central leaders of the Congress rushed to Goa to resolve the crisis.

 The imbroglio over Fatorda was the bone of contention between the two parties as the Congress fielded a candidate against   minutes after stating that the seat was given to GFP.
 
 Senior leader   was to reach Goa past midnight, while All-India Congress Committee general secretary Digvijaya Singh arrived here late Thursday evening. 
 
 The two are to hold talks with opposition leader  , state Congress president Luizinho Faleiro and Sardesai.
 
 Observers said options are limited for Congress to resolve the situation, which is of its own making.
 
 On Wednesday, president of the Fatorda block of the Congress, Joseph Silva, had filed his nomination papers from two parties, Congress and Goa Vikas Party.
 
 The election agent of Vijai Sardesai had filed a complaint with the returning officer taking objection to Silva’s filing of nomination from two parties.
 
 At the hearing over the objections held on Thursday, returning officer Uday Prabhudessai rejected the objection after Silva produced a letter signed by GPCC president Luizinho Faleiro to the effect that Silva was a member of the Congress. On Wednesday, Silva had submitted Form ‘B’ signed by Faleiro. This was minutes after vice president of Goa Pradesh Congress committee M K Shaikh had announced that the party was not fielding a candidate in Fatorda.
 
 Silva said he would now withdraw his nomination filed as the GVP candidate and contest as a Congress candidate from Fatorda. This is perhaps the first time that the state unit head went against the line of the high command.
 
 Sardesai told reporters that it was treachery on the part of the Congress. He said this is the second time he has been betrayed—the first time was in 2012. “Is this the treatment one expects from local party leaders after I stood by them and worked for the Congress candidate against the BJP in the last Lok Sabha poll?” he asked.
 
 But AICC secretary Girish Chodankar said they had done nothing wrong. “There is no question of backstabbing Goa Forward as we never said that we are going for any mahagatbandhan. The doors of dialogue with Goa Forward are always open, including Fatorda, and let’s see how this issue can be resolved,” he said.
 
 Stopping short of issuing a clear diktat to Goa Forward to withdraw from Velim and Saligao, Chodankar hinted that the party was open to withdrawing Silva if Goa Forward candidates Jayesh Salgaonkar and Anthony Rodrigues stepped down in Saligao and Velim, respectively. “Our workers have asked us why when we have not fielded candidates in their (Goa Forward) constituencies, Goa Forward is putting candidates in our constituencies. The party leadership will now meet and decide on Fatorda,” Chodankar said.
 
 Senior party officials clearly hinted that they were open to dialogue with Goa Forward but “there will be no compromise on Saligao and Velim”.
 
 Sources said that irrespective of the stand of the Congress, the party will have no say over Silva’s candidature. This is because as per the rules, the party concerned has no role to play after the scrutiny is completed. Now, it is up to the candidate to take a call.
 
 Sources close to Silva said that he will not back out under any circumstances, making it clear that Fatorda will witness a four-cornered fight—Damodar ‘Damu’ Naik (BJP), Silva (Congress), Ranjit Cota Carvalho (AAP) and Sardesai (GFP).
 
