It’s a no-brainer that short hair becomes the obvious choice during summer. With the cricket season in full swing, we take a look at how cricketers are sporting their crop, not just to beat the heat and look cool, but to also give themselves a certain edginess. Asst Manager in Training at Truefitt & Hill, Jaykishan Anant Pawar says, “Summers are the best time of the year for a man because one can easily rock a cool look with short and trendy haircuts.” Stylists feel that short cropped hair is not just fashionable but comfortable to sport during the blazing heat of summer. Various hairstyles including razor fades, buzz cut with stubble beard, high and low fades, messy hair, side back short with mid-length spike and fade with a blow back top can be easily tried to beat the heat. Men can now take inspiration from their favourite cricketers and try variations in their regular crop styles.  Men with an oval and oblong shaped face, can carry off almost all kinds of hairstyles.  Jaykishan says, “For a special summer look, wearing a buzz cut with a short stubble like Shikhar Dhawan or a side buzz mohawk like Sunil Narine will look great.” And those who love the bedhead look, can wear their hair like Gautam Gambhir — short and messy. Those with a round face can imitate Suresh Raina’s side back short, mid-length spikes. “One could also try Zaheer Khan’s short spike look,” adds Jaykishan. Those who have an angular face or a prominent jaw line can opt for high and low fades by taking inspiration from MS Dhoni. The senior cricketer sports a side back fade and mid-length top. He adds, “Virat Kohli too sports a high fade. Team this with a beard and you are good to go.” Senior hair stylist Narendra V, from a salon chain in the city, says, “ A regular pompadour with short hair on the sides looks cool. Apart from hair on the sides, the rest of the hair on the head is left longer. In order to get a stylish edge, it can be swept back.” He suggests one can use a maximum hold, controlling hair paste to get the perfect shine and texture. Want to notch up your cool quotient in the summer heat? Then choose this style. “Apply a reasonable quantity of hair gel in order to make your hair stand up straighter. Now, you can bend them to the left with your fingers,” says Narendra. Using a natural hold gel will help add fullness and gloss to your style and still give it a good hold.  Cricketer Virat Kohli is the man who comes to mind when you talk about this look. He has endorsed the style several times. Narendra says, “Create spikes on your head. Above your ears make two cuts with a razor and you are all set to rock it.”