If MP Ranjeet Ranjan has her way, the Big Fat Indian Wedding may soon become a thing of dreams. She has proposed a bill in the   in an attempt to curb ‘wasteful and extravagant weddings’. If the bill — Marriages (Compulsory Registration and Prevention of Wasteful Expenditure) Bill 2016 — is passed, families that spend over Rs 5 lakh on a wedding have to contribute 10 per cent of the amount towards a fund for marriages of girls from poor families. In fact, the bill also proposes fixing a limit on the number of guests and the dishes being served. While there’s no seal on the deal yet, the proposal has evoked mixed reactions from the public.

 
 
 Though people appreciate the thought behind the proposal, they opine that an individual’s wedding is his/her business and the government should not meddle in private matters. Actor  , who had tied the knot with co-star and fiancée Vandana Lalwani in December last year, says, “Honestly, what gives others the right to decide how much a person can spend on his/her weddings? It’s against the fundamental rights. If I want to help the weaker section of the society, I will do so on my own terms. Of course, I think weddings have to be done in a classier manner and should not be a platform to showcase wealth.”
 Agreeing with him is Himani Kapoor, a marketing professional, who says, “Forcing me to contribute to the wedding of a girl from an economically weaker section by limiting my celebration is unfair. Making this mandatory is almost like saying that if you hire a rickshaw instead of using public transport, you will have to give money to beggars.”
 
 
 
 TV actor Dheeraj Dhoopar, who married co-star   a few months ago, opines that this mandatory 10 per cent contribution comes across like another tax. “As such, we are paying professional tax, service tax and income tax among various other assortments. This new proposal is 
 unwarranted for.”
 HR Manager Rohitansh Sharma is now confused if he should limit his wedding expenses because he’s tying the knot only in August 2018 and is unsure if the bill will become a law by then. “I have been saving up for a destination wedding in Udaipur. I pay all my taxes and have a clean record. So, why am I being forced to contribute? I anyway celebrate my birthdays at NGOs and have also planned an elaborate lunch for children of a home after my engagement next month.”
 
 
 
  
  
 As brash as it sounds, marriage is a revenue-generating industry, and the livelihood of many individuals — from wedding planners and make-up artistes to choreographers, photographers, caterers, banquet hall owners and even flower sellers —depends on it. With a cap on expenditure, will it affect their business?
 Choreographer   says the new bill might not affect her as she can fall back on other events, like corporate shows and workshops. But Pooja Naik, a wedding photographer, states, “The cost for shooting a day’s event — with candid and traditional shoots, pre and post wedding shoots, lighting assistants, equipment, picture and video editors — comes up to a minimum of Rs 2 lakh, depending on the company’s experience. Also, small players like decorators, dhol and ghodiwaalas, are going to be affected the most. In the long haul, it will affect the quality of work as people will opt for those with lesser experience to save money.” Wedding photographer ‘ Sakhalkar Dasgupta adds, “For Rs 5 lakh, you won’t even get a proper venue! I think many couples will be forced to opt for court marriages. I believe it’s big-wigs like politicians, businessmen and actors, who spend lavish amount on weddings. The working class save through years to host a decent celebration.”
 
 
 
 With a minimum of three functions, for many, it’s hard to imagine limiting their budget to Rs 5 lakh. PR professional Sakshi Mukherjee, who plans to get married by the end of the year, says, “Weddings in India are not a one-day affair and prices are only going up. The amount they are asking us to contribute towards marriages of underprivileged girls is alright but in a traditional Indian wedding set-up, the amount can be used for one more function. If this bill is passed, I will be 
 forced to cut down on one of the many functions I have planned for my big day.”
 Dr Krishna Mahtani, an opthamologist, appreciates the thought but says the cap amount is too little. She says, “I’m going for a court marriage, but we are hosting a reception in a South Mumbai banquet hall. Renting the venue alone cost me close to Rs 3 lakh. I have to take into account food and cocktails for 600-odd guests and the photography spends. We also have a few traditional rituals planned for the day. If the amount is increased to at least Rs 15 lakhs, I think people will be more welcoming.”
 
 
 
 If any family intends to spend more than `5 lakh towards expenditure on marriage, such family shall declare the amount proposed to be spent in advance to the appropriate government and contribute 10 per cent of such amount in a welfare fund, which shall be established by the appropriate government to assist the poor and Below Poverty Line families for the marriage of their daughters.
 The government may fix the limit of guests and relatives and number of dishes to be served to the guests and relatives as it may deem necessary or expedient to prevent the wastage of food items.
 
