Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee ( ) has decided to honour Rai Kalha, a feudatory chief of Raikot with   roots by installing his picture along with Guru Gobind Singh's relic Ganga Sagar at the Central Sikh Museum. The sacred relic is presently with Rai Azizullah Khan, Kalha's ninth generation descendent. Over the years, the family has kept Guru Gobind Singh's sacred relic with respect.

 On July 18, manager, Golden Temple, Sulakhan Singh invited Rai Azizullah Khan to attend the installation ceremony of a photograph of Rai Kalha along with Ganga Sagar in Kendrai Sikh Ajyab Ghar (Central Sikh Museum) on July 24. The letter was sent at the Lahore address of Aziz, who, unfortunately, cannot come in time.
 
 "It was such short notice. Even visa formalities will take more than a week. I will miss the ceremony and lose an opportunity to be the witness of my ancestors being honoured by the Sikhs' single largest representative body in the world," said Aziz while talking to TOI from Vancouver, Canada.
 
 Aziz talks about his ancestors and legacy they left with respect. He expresses pride at the courage of his elders who risked their lives for Guru Gobind Singh. The feeling is acknowledged by the Sikhs too. "I am indebted to every one for showering such love and affection towards the Rai family," he said.
 
 When asked about any apprehensions with respect to the security of Ganga Sangar, he replied. "No, it is well protected. Earlier, it was in a London bank and now it is in a bank in Canada."
 
 While there is no fixed schedule for the display of Ganga Sagar, he makes sure devotees get a chance to see the sacred relic. "I carry it with me when there is some invitation from the gurdwara. Recently, I went to  , where I displayed the Ganga Sagar for darshan. I have displayed it all over the world," he said.
 
 On being asked if he intended to hand over the Ganga Sagar to the SGPC, he said, "It is the Guru's gift to my ancestors and it is significant because the Guru himself touched it. Even if it was a clay pot, the
 
 significance of the Guru's gift for the Rai family would have been the same".
 
 About other relics, including the wooden "Rehal" and sword, Aziz said Rehal, being made of wood, couldn't survive the vagaries of changing weather and the sword was taken by the British before Partition as they wanted to collect the most valuable articles.
 
 Sulakhan Singh said they had to postpone the installation ceremony on an earlier occasion too as Aziz couldn't make it to Amritsar. "But this time, we will install the photograph of Rai Kalha along with Gobind Sagar as per schedule," he said. 
 
 
 
 
 In 1705, the tenth Sikh master, Guru Gobind Singh went to   after leaving the fort of Anandpur Sahib. His two minor sons, Baba Zorawar Singh , 9 and Baba Fateh Singh, 7, and his mother, Mata Gujri were separated from him while crossing the Sirsa river on a cold December night.
 
 The Guru also lost his two elder sons, Baba Ajit Singh, 19, and Baba Jujhar Singh, 15. They attained martyrdom in the battle of Chamkaur Sahib.
 
 In Machiwara, Ghani Khan and Nabi Khan, two Muslim horse dealers, helped the Guru by declaring him "Uchh Da Peer", a famous Muslim saint from South Punjab, providing him with essentials and carrying him on a palanquin, assisted by a few Sikhs and Muslims.
 
 This was a bold move as Guru Gobind Singh was often refused help due to fear of death as   was after him and his family.
 
 When Guru Gobind Singh reached Raikot, the Muslim Rajput Chief, Rai Kalha welcomed him and expressed honour in offering his services to him as his guest for as long as he wanted to stay. Guru Gobind Singh spent a few days with Rai Kalha.
 
 Once, Guru Gobind Singh asked Noora Mahi, who Rai Kalha assigned to serve the Guru, to serve him milk in the Ganga
 
 Sagar. Noora Mahi said his buffaloes did not give milk. Guru asked him to take the name of God and start milking a buffalo. To his surprise, the buffalo gave milk, which he collected in the Ganga Sagar.
 
 Rai Kalha also sent Noora Mahi to Sirhind, from where he brought the news of the martyrdom of the Guru's two minor sons and his mother.
 
 Before leaving Raikot, in recognition of the hospitality extended by Rai Kalha, Guru Gobind Singh presented Ganga Sagar, a sword and a Rehal (small wooden stand to read a religious book) to Rai Kalha as gifts.
 
