LUCKNOW: The state government will create a dedicated coffer for mineral rich districts in UP. Proposed to be named   (DMF), the coffer will be used for carrying out development activities in districts contributing to state exchequer through mining activities. 

 Announcing this on the floor of  , chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi said mineral rich districts which contributed heavily to the state exchequer did not benefit . 
 
 Taking a pot-shot at the previous   government, the CM said the revenue generated through mining appeared to be less than personal funds of the then mining minister (Gayatri Prajapati). Yogi said the state government, in a bid to check illegal mining activities would use the satellite mapping and allocation of contracts through e-tendering. He said state government will not allow interference of MPs and MLAs in allotment of contracts.
 
  ODF villages: The chief minister on Monday set deadline for making UP open defecation-free (ODF) state by October 2018. He claimed the state government would ensure 1,685 villages in 30 districts are ODF by the end of year. He said a vaccination drive to check spread of Japanese encephalitis (JE) would be carried out in 38 affected districts between May 25 and June 10. Yogi said the government would also focus on checking acute encephalitis syndrome by maintaining cleanliness. 
 
  New uniform: The chief minister took a pot-shot at his predecessor   for introducing khaki school uniforms that made children look like "Home Guards" and "only showed what you wanted children to turn into.'' In response, Akhilesh said the uniform was made to look the children like Rashtra Bhakts. Yogi said present government would not only provide students from economically poor background uniforms but also shoes and socks. 
 
  In the name of Romeo: Under attack for naming police teams to check instance of sexual harassment Anti-Romeo Squad, Yogi asked Opposition to see their work not the name. " Kaam dekho...naam nahi...naam mein kya rakha hai,'' he said, while speaking on the floor of Vidhan Parishad. To this, SP president Akhilesh retorted: "Is mein Romeo ki kya galti hai...woh to ek devoted lover tha (why defame Romeo, who was a true lover).'' Yadav asked state government to provide details of people arrested in connection with anti-Romeo operation. 
 
  More power: State government on Tuesday maintained average power supply was more than it was in the previous Akhilesh Yadav government. Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma informed Vidhan Parishad that average power supply in urban areas was 23.05 hours in the present regime, as against 20.29 hours during the previous SP government. The rural areas, Sharma said, are receiving 17.39 hours of power supply as against 13.29 hours previously. 
 
  Demand for action: Vidhan Parishad chairman Ramesh Yadav reserved judgement over breach of privilege of Congress MLC Dinesh Pratap Singh by executive engineer Rae Bareli Development Authority S K Sinha, who was summoned to the council for a hearing and is accused of misbehaving with Singh. Demanding strict action against Sinha, members said the incident shows the gross disrespect of officials towards the legislature. 
 
 
