LUCKNOW: With only a few days to go before public launch of Lucknow Metro, caving in of the newly constructed   and stairs of   on Thursday unnerved people who were looking forward to take the first ride in the train soon.   Rail Corporation ( ) said excessive rains in the last few days led to loosening of the newly laid soil under the structure which caused caving in of the ramp and stairs.

 Officials said cracks had developed two days ago but major damage showed up on Thursday. A similar incident was reported on May 25 when the station wall and pillars supporting lift of Alambagh Bus Stand metro station showed deep crack caused by heavy construction of the modern shelter-cum-commercial space in close vicinity recently.
 
 Transportnagar is one of the first stations besides Krishnanagar to be completed on the 8.5km priority corridor, whose commercial run is expected any time before August. Though LMRC authorities are claiming to be reviewing all stations regularly and checking their safety features, sudden damage to the base structure of the station raises serious questions on quality of construction, given very less time is left before the launch. 
 
 LMRC’s spokesperson said any new construction needs time to settle firmly. “Excessive rains have loosened the soil resulting in caving in of ramp and stairs. The ramp was to be used by physically challenged people and now we will rebuild it,” he said. 
 
 On Thursday afternoon, LMRC was quick to veil the entire damage area with green cloth and carry restoration of the structure. It said in order to rule out any possibility of further damage, they have broken the entire structure and will ensure everything is rebuilt within 24 hours. 
 
 Locals, however, feared if the ramp and stairs are unable to sustain one monsoon season despite being recently built, how will it last in future. Krishnanagar resident Ajay Tyagi said, “When a staircase is not strong enough, who will take guarantee of the entire metro station? Work has been going on for almost two years now and such a thing has happened. Quality shouldn’t have been compromised.” Haran Singh of Alambagh also said it's good the incident happened before the inauguration otherwise many lives would have been at risk.
 
 
