Margao: Professional musician, Ashwin Alvares, 42, was severely injured after he was allegedly assaulted by a group outside a restaurant at Colva late Tuesday night. Colva police, acting on Alvares’ complaint, have booked an offence against two persons — Freddy Menezes, a resident of Chinchinim, and Anthony Fernandes, a resident of Colva — on charges of assaulting and abusing Alvares.  The DJ has been admitted to Hospicio, Margao where he is undergoing treatment for a bleeding nose.  In his complaint to the police, Alvares said that he was playing music at the restaurant as a part of his show and that trouble began when he was winding up his performance at around 11.20pm.  Alvares said a person requested him to sing a particular song, but when he declined the request on the grounds that it was time for the show to end, two persons from the group charged towards him, and abused and threatened him with dire consequences.  Ignoring their abuses, when Alvares packed his musical instruments and exited the restaurant, a group of persons followed him to his car and began raining blows on him, the complaint states. In a bid to save himself, Alvares rushed inside the restaurant. Later, a 108 ambulance was called and he was rushed to Hospicio.  Alvares, in his complaint, identified Menezes and Fernandes as two of the four assailants. Police have booked an offence against the duo. The other two remain unidentified. Condemning the incidents, members of the Goa Entertainment Association have demanded that police arrest the accused immediately. Lester Rodrigues of the GEA, while addressing media persons on Wednesday, questioned the failure of the police in obtaining the CCTV footage of the incident from the restaurant immediately after the alleged assault.  Expressing concern over the safety of musicians in Goa, Rodrigues pointed out that there has been a rise in incidents of assaults on musicians in Goa after they stop their show at the end of the permissible sound time limit. “There’s a grey area as far as time restrictions are concerned, and that is when often musicians end up getting assaulted,” Rodrigues said. 