Few elections symbols have been as bitterly fought over as the modest cycle. Much before the father-son duo of   and   began their fight-to-the-finish in Uttar Pradesh, the cycle was a subject of electoral dispute in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu too.

 The 1996 Lok Sabha election campaign in Andhra Pradesh was marked by acrimony between rival Telugu Desam Party factions led by the late NT Rama Rao’s son-in-law N Chandrababu Naidu and his wife Lakshmi Parvathi. The EC had given the   to Naidu. At public meetings, Parvati would often tell the crowd that they must vote for the 'lion' because "the cycle has been stolen by the thieves".
 
 Naidu had dethroned the superstar-chief minister in August 1995; the 'coup' being planned in a defunct movie theatre, Basant Talkies, located in a small lane at Narayanaguda crossroads in Hyderabad. NTR's family stood by Naidu, along with a majority of MLAs, giving him the edge in the battle for electoral symbol. Naidu showed off more than 200 out of 294 legislators which clinched the case in his favour.
 
 In Tamil Nadu, the Tamil Maanila Congress (TMC) led by G K Moopanar was allotted the cycle symbol after he quit the Congress on the eve of the Lok Sabha and   in 1996. The TMC, in DMK's company, romped home with a massive majority in the assembly and bagged all the Lok Sabha seats too.
 
 After Moopanar's death in 2001, his son and former Union minister G K Vasan merged the party with the Congress. In 2014, he walked out of the party like his dad, and tried to revive the TMC. Despite desperate efforts, Vasan could not get the cycle symbol. "The EC denied us the symbol citing its use in two other states," said Vasan. He had to settle for 'coconut farm' as the symbol in the 2016 elections in which he drew a blank. 
 
 TN chief electoral officer Rajesh Lakhoni said, "The cycle symbol was not allotted to TMC as it was allotted to SP which was also contesting the assembly election in Tamil Nadu."
 
 In the early decades of post-independent India, the cycle was a totem of upward mobility in both hinterland and urban India. Transistor, watch and cycle were three essentials in any wedding shopping list in north India. Even in recent years, it is a preferred gift for political parties. Ask Nitish Kumar, Mamata Banerjee, or, even Akhilesh.
 
 It remains a desired election symbol too. Currently, the cycle is SP’s symbol in UP and other states like Bihar and Uttarakhand where the party’s enjoys a degree of influence. Telugu Desam Party (TDP) in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, Jammu & Kashmir Panthers’ Party in J&K, Kerala Congress in Kerala and Manipur People’s Party in Manipur also use the symbol.
 
 "While it is reserved for   in Uttar Pradesh, in other states it can be allotted to other parties as SP is not a national party like the BJP or the Congress whose symbols cannot be given to any other party in any other state," said former CEC N Gopalaswami.
 
 Political scientist Imtiaz Ahmed says that election symbols encapsulate a political party’s history. "Whoever gets the symbol after an intra-party warfare inherits all that the party has done in the past. Symbols give you legacy," he said. In a country where over 25% are still illiterate, a symbol also becomes part of a voter’s hardwired memory. "Many people still put their stamp on the ballot paper without looking at the party's name," he said.
 
 In recent years, social media platforms such as WhatsApp are being used to communicate with the voter in remote areas. Yet symbols remain vital even today, says former JNU professor Dipankar Gupta. "Even if 20% of potential voters don’t know about a new symbol then it becomes a matter of concern for the party," he said.
 
 Akhilesh Yadav must be overjoyed at the EC’s decision.
 
 
 
 
 
