NEW DELHI: Traffic police has issued an order to RWAs across the city to remove   in colonies in compliance with a   directive to dismantle all those set up without permission or those not conforming to the stipulated norms.

 HC took traffic police to task over the random use of PVC speed breakers on colony roads.   said they would issue guidelines specifying the height and width of speed breakers, which all RWAs must follow.
 
 “RWAs desirous of installing speed breakers in their colonies must put a request with the DCP, traffic police, of the area and permission will be granted if a survey finds it necessary,” a senior traffic police officer said.
 
 The officer said there are more than 5,000 unauthorised speed breakers across the city and, outside colonies, speed breakers were set up by civic agencies even at the foot of flyovers at many places. This heightens the risk of vehicles ramming into those ahead that slow down at the speed breakers.
 
 Delhi Traffic Police, the primary agency for identifying the location and need for speed breakers, gives permission for their installation on request from RWAs or recommends them to civic agencies—the three MCDs, New Delhi Municipal Council, Delhi Cantonment Board, and Delhi Development Authority—for stretches where vehicles over speed or those that are accident-prone.
 
 The reality, though, is several speed breakers have come up in Delhi, since 2014, which don’t adhere to the guidelines of the Indian Road Congress (IRC)—either for the specifications of speed breakers, or in putting up proper signage to warn motorists about them.
 
 The 1987 guidelines of IRC specify that speed breakers should have a span of 17 metres, a width of 3.7 metres, and a height of 0.1 metres. This is calculated to reduce the speed of a vehicle down to 25kmph. Other research institutes like CRRI (Central Road Research Institute), also have specifications for speed breakers, for various speeds. A report by CSIR-CRRI says that if you want to bring the speed of a vehicle down to 50kmph, the dimensions of the speed breaker would differ from the one that would bring down the speed to 30kmph.
 
 
