CHANDIGARH: A day after getting directions from the National Green Tribunal ( ) to treat all garbage,  , which runs the   processing plant at  , allowed entry of 212 metric tonnes of garbage to the plant for processing.

 Plant manager K S Sandhu told TOI that they accepted the garbage send by the municipal corporation. To comply with the NGT order, Sandhu said that they would continue to accept garbage sent by the civic body for processing. If the firm fails to comply with the orders, it will have to pay Rs 50,000 fine on a daily basis. A committee has also been formed for monitoring work done by the company.
 
 Jaypee Group and the municipal corporation had been at the loggerheads over various issues in the past. The city generates around 400 tonnes of municipal solid waste daily. The firm, till Monday, was not running to its full capacity, leading to piling up of garbage at the dumping ground. The residents of Dadumajra had complained about the foul smell emitting from the garbage.
 
 After the agreement, the firm had given an assurance to set up a compost plant within three months and sought nine months for properly running the plant. If they failed to deliver, they would hand over the plant to the  . In a recently held Administrator’s Advisory Council (AAC) meeting, local MP Kirron Kher had criticized the corporation for its failure to run the garbage plant properly.
 
 The corporation had entered a contract with the firm in 2005. Both parties had been at loggerheads over various issues. The corporation cancelled the contract of the firm, following which it moved the NGT against the cancellation. On June 20, the firm had shut down the processing plant, inflaming its tussle with the corporation. The company had even claimed breakdown of machinery and pasted notices of “plant under maintenance”. The firm was later asked by the NGT to re-open the plant.
 
 The municipal corporation is currently focussing towards segregation of garbage at source and had started distributing green and blue dustbins. This year, the MC slipped in   ranking from second to 11. In the last house meeting, the MP had taken a dig at the MC for poor sanitation and garbage disposal.
 
