CUTTACK: Police here have arrested five persons, including three from Kolkata, for their alleged involvement in fraudulently withdrawing Rs 25 lakh from a man's bank account through online transactions. 

 Police claimed the three Kolkata-based men -  , Satish Yadav and Arun Mishra - to be the masterminds, while two employees of the BSNL office at Salipur block -   and Krutibas Kandi - had helped them in facilitating the crime. The man allegedly duped was Sanjib Das, a private employee and resident of CDA locality, under Markat Nagar police station.
 
 "The accused had somehow managed to hack into the net banking account of Das's daughter (which he was operating on her behalf). Then, over the past few weeks, the gang continuously tracked the transactions in the bank account and accordingly planned their move," DCP (Cuttack)   said."As the account holder belonged to Odisha, the accused came down to Cuttack to collect a duplicate SIM card since the number is linked with the bank account. To avoid arousing suspicion, the men intentionally chose Salipur BSNL office to get the duplicate SIM card, instead of Cuttack," Arora added.
 
 Throwing caution to the wind, the two BSNL employees issued a duplicate SIM card to the accused, blocking Das's number in the process. Khatoi and Kandi provided the SIM card on the basis of a fake affidavit and fake identity proof of Das, the police claimed. After getting the duplicate SIM card, it was easy for the accused to carry out online transactions, withdrawing around Rs 25,11,084 lakh in the process. Police said the gang did online shopping from Das's account and transferred money in small amounts several times to avoid the scrutiny of bank officials.
 
 Police said the accused carried out the transactions between November 26 and 28. "During these two days Das's SIM card was blocked and hence, he had no clue about the  ," the DCP said. 
 
 Das returned on Novmeber 29 and realised there was some problem with his mobile number as he was not receiving any calls and messages. He got his SIM unblocked but it was not before December 23 that he checked his account and it was then that he realised he had been duped. He then lodged a complaint at Markat Nagar police station. 
 
 During investigation the police tracked the accused's online trasactions and were traced to Kolkata, where they were arrested on January 10. Police have seized Rs 95,000 in cash, a gold chain, two motorcycles, which had been purchased with Das's money, from the accused. They were first produced at Barrackpore court and then brought to Cuttack in transit remand. 
 
 
