MEERUT: With BJP governments in both Centre and state, hope for the revival of airport project in Meerut has rekindled among local industrialists and residents who are frequent fliers.
 
  Atul Gupta, western UP secretary of UP chapter of   (IIA), said, “If one looks from industry perspective, western UP region is rich in industries. We have most of the sugar mills here apart from sports goods industry and other export-driven units. Speedy transport system is of immense importance to the region. There are fairly good chances that we will have a synchronized effort from state and Centre to make this airport a reality now.”
  
  A Muzaffarnagar-based government official, who didn’t wish to be named, said, “The distance between Meerut and the state capital is 500 km. Train journey on the route is time-taking and arduous. The air passage will increase productivity of frequent commuters.”
  
  The genesis of this proposal dates back to February 2010 when the then UP government had decided to shift the proposed airport from Noida to Meerut. The then principal secretary for civil aviation, UP government, had issued a notification in this regard and had invited bids for appointment of consultants for the setting-up of airport. Meerut Development Authority (MDA) was appointed the nodal authority and the existing airstrip on the outskirts of the city near Gogol village was to be developed as a full-fledged airport. However, the project that was slated for completion in 2016 never took off.
  
  After years of negotiations, it was not until February 24, 2014, that an MoU was signed between state government and Airports Authority of India (AAI) to develop seven airports in Uttar Pradesh, including Meerut.
  
  According to the MoU, the UP government had agreed to provide the required land logistic report for the development of the airports. But till date, there is little progress in this regard.
  
  A total of 158.7 hectares of land was required for the project in Meerut. Most of the land bank belonged to the farmers of two villages, Gagol (120 hectares) and Kashi (106 ha). After prolonged negotiations, a rate was fixed at Rs 5,800 per square metre.
  
  Funds of Rs 920 crore needed for land acquisition never arrived. Besides, the project also includes 30 acres of forest land and the forest department did not give the land to AAI as the latter did not issue certificate that minimum trees would be cut.
  
  These and many other issues including political hostilities between the state and Centre put a spanner in the progress of the project.
  
  Vivek Bhaskar, assistant town planner, ADA -- the nodal agency for the designated project, told TOI, “The new government in Lucknow is seeking detailed reports of all proposed or unfinished projects in the state with fresh perspective. And, airport project in UP is certainly one of them. A huge amount of work in   has already been done. Now the government has to issue fresh directions in this regard. Once this is done, issues like technical viability survey can be taken up and with decisive leaderships in both Centre and state, all hurdles can be removed. We are only awaiting orders.”
