NEW DELHI: From a distance, it looks like the road — both the lanes on either side of the divider — ends at the wall of a  . Local resident Ankit Dev acknowledged that if the motorist did not take a sharp left turn as he approached the temple in  , he could well ram into it. Not surprisingly,   the mid-road temple demolished to ease the way for traffic. The first attempt at this on Monday, however, was foiled by   is a site of miracles.

  There are no road signs warning of the 700-sq-ft temple. Some people say the unlikely location of the shrine is not only the cause of traffic jams during peak travel hours, but it is also a traffic hazard — though no fatal accidents have occurred at the site. 
 
 On May 30, disposing of a public-interest litigation filed by Sukhpal Singh, president of Vishwas Nagar Vikas Samiti, in 2014, the high court ordered “government of Delhi, in co-operation with deputy commissioner of police of the area concerned and all other appropriate agencies having jurisdiction to ensure the demolition of Kalka Mandir is carried out within eight weeks”.
 
  Petitioner Singh claimed that the case was driven by public interest and provided the court with photographs of the temple in the middle of the road. He told TOI, “Buses going to Vivek Vihar are forced to take a longer route because they cannot negotiate the sharp turn created by the temple.” 
 
  Maa Kalka Seva Samiti (MKSS), the temple body, had introduced itself as a third party in the case, but the high court observed that “no attempt has been made on its (MKSS) part to show how it acquired possession of the land either lawful or otherwise and when it put up the structure in question”. The court has further said that while the “entire endeavour” of MKSS was to prove the petition was motivated, it had not denied that the “unauthorised building, used as a temple, is at an intersection of public roads and obstructs traffic”.
 
 The court directive stunned the devotees and a decision was taken to run a campaign to protect the temple from demolition. Built around 40 years ago, the temple, the local people say, is a site of divine happenings.  , the presiding priest, claimed, “A teenaged girl was once brought here unconscious and burning with fever. Soon after she was touched with peacock feathers used to dust the idols of the deities, she sat up and walked back home.” Similar stories abound and people talk of many wishes being fulfilled.
 
  Not surprisingly, hundreds of devotees crowded the temple premises on Monday and foiled the efforts of PWD and DDA teams, accompanied by police, to begin demolition. “PWD has postponed the demolition to August 21 due to administrative reasons,” informed Mukesh Vaid, founder of MKSS.
 
  The temple’s lawyer, Sachin Aggarwal, said that the order of the high court cannot be executed because the petitioner had not made MKSS a party in the case. “We are praying for a stay on the demolition order and are prepared to pursue further action to save the temple,” Aggarwal said.
 
  According to Vandana Khurana, president of MKSS, the temple was built under a banyan tree in the middle of open fields. Over the years, the areas around it were urbanised and the place of worship found itself awkwardly nestled amid roads and houses.
 
 
