BENGALURU: Amid  , authorities on Monday began   and the foundation laid for an   on a   in central Bengaluru.

 The exercise is likely to continue for two more days. “As SSLC exams are going on in the school, work can be done only after 1pm,”   and zilla panchayat engineers said.
 
 TOI had broken the story of the illegal temple being constructed on the premises of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Government High School in Wilson Garden, in these columns on March 24. Taking cognizance of the issue, the Lokayukta had issued orders to stop the work immediately. 
 
 The wrongdoing came to the fore after students of the school petitoned the Lokayukta. At a meeting held with Lokayukta Justice P Vishwanatha Shetty on April 7, Bengaluru Urban zilla panchayat and BBMP officials were told to remove the illegal structure.
 
 Chickpet MLA R V Devaraj had granted Rs 8 lakh from his local area development scheme for the construction of a compound wall for the school. It had come to the Lokayukta’s notice that the money from the MLA’s fund had been diverted by the zilla panchayat for the construction of a platform around a peepal tree (Ashwattha Katte) inside the school premises. No permission was sought from BBMP. Meanwhile, a compound wall was built within the premises to create a separate plot, on which the unauthorized temple construction began. On April 7, the Lokayukta gave oral instructions to the BBMP and zilla panchayat officers to remove all the illegal structures and let the school reclaim the space. 
 
 Claiming they were unaware of the temple construction in the school, zilla panchayat engineers and BBMP officials pulled down the illegal structure. A bulldozer reached the spot late in the evening. “We will bring the school campus back to its original shape,” a BBMP engineer told TOI.
 
 
 
 
 Taking exception to the demolition, some residents of Wilson Garden claimed to have raised funds up to Rs 25 lakh for the temple construction. An advocate living near the school said: “What’s wrong in constructing the temple? The space was not being used.” 
 
 
 
 
 A school staffer told TOI the demolition has come as a huge relief as the temple construction was nothing but an encroachment of public place and would have left the children with no place to hang around during leisure hours. “Efforts were made to create a separate entrance for the temple. Miscreants living here eyed the open space in front of our school,” said a teacher.
 
 
