NEW DELHI: Private weather forecast agency,  , has predicted a ‘below normal’ monsoon in India this year, taking note of the growing possibility of El Nino conditions developing around July-August that may affect normal rainfall in the country. The prediction would come as a cause of concern for Indian agriculture, which depends largely on monsoon rain. 

 However, it is too early to rely on forecasts as conditions that impact monsoon rains are still evolving. “The monsoon this year is likely to remain below normal at 95% (with an error margin of +/-5%) of the long period average (LPA) of 887mm (89cm) for the fourmonth period from June to September,” Skymet said. The agency is likely to revise its forecast in due course, like it did last year. Even on Monday, Skymet said there was 50% chance of normal monsoon. 
 
 India’s national weather forecast agency, India Meteorological Department, will release its initial monsoon forecast next month. IMD had last year revised its earlier forecast from “above normal” monsoon to “normal”. 
 
 Skymet’s initial monsoon forecasts too have been off the mark for past two years. Last year, it predicted above normal monsoon at 109% of LPA while actual rainfall was 97%. In 2015, which turned out to be a   year, Skymet had predicted normal rainfall. 
 
 Monsoon is considered “normal” if countrywide average rainfall is between 96-104% of the LPA. Anything less than 90% of the LPA is termed as “deficient” and rainfall in the 90-96% range is considered as “below normal”. Similarly, “above normal” monsoon is between 104-110% of the LPA and anything beyond 110% is “excess”. 
 
 According to Skymet, below normal rainfall is expected over peninsular India, Maharashtra, Gujarat, parts of Madhya Pradesh and the northwest plains, including Punjab and Haryana. “Odisha, Jharkhand and West Bengal might get good rainfall,” said the agency. 
 
 Though below normal rainfall is generally attributed to El Nino, this particular weather pattern is likely to emerge only around late July.
 
