MUMBAI: Almost six months after a strict ban was imposed on sending up drones, aeromodels and other light flying objects, the Mumbai police has lifted it conditionally. Flying of modelled aircraft -not   -with restrictions on the height and area of flight has been allowed. But the flyers have been asked to submit a video recording of their activities.

 TOI had reported how the ban was affecting many engineering students who could not complete their projects at the end of their academic year. Their aeromodelling projects had been stalled since October 2016 when cops termed the objects as security threats.
 
 In a letter dated March 16, the police laid down seven conditions allowing the   ( ) to carry out flying and training activities at Mahalaxmi racecourse. The flyers have been asked to restrict the height of flight to less than 100 metres, not go beyond the perimeter of the racecourse, to shoot the flying activities from the ground and sub mit a recording to the local police station, and not to install GPS system or camera in the flying objects. In addition to the technical restrictions, the police have asked that the institute should ensure the safety of its members and make sure their activities do not affect the people in the racecourse's vicinity .
 
 Shooting the flying activity from the ground will be the real difficulty , said Darius Engineer, honorary secre tary at IAMA. “We anyway comply with the other restrictions. Our aircraft do not go above 300 feet, which is less than 100 metres. Also, Mahalaxmi racecourse is not a highly populated area and it is not surrounded by any building of strategic importance. It is the best location for our flying activities,“ said Engineer. The letter signed by DCP (Operations) Ashok Dudhe also mentions that the police may cancel the permissions if need arises.
 
 Engineering students from Sardar Patel College of Engineering, IITBombay , K J Somaiya College of Engineering, and Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute (VJTI) use the racecourse ground to design and fly modelled aircraft as part of their coursework and also to participate in national and international events. Sourabh Chinchole, from the Aero VJTI team, said they had to rush to Aamby Valley near Pune to test the endurance of their battery a few days ago due to the ban. “It turned out to be an expensive affair. But we had to test the flight of the aircraft as the competition is scheduled in mid-April. Lifting the ban here is a big relief,“ said Chinchole.
 
 Aeromodelling is also a popular sport, but falls in the grey area as Indian aviation authorities are yet to frame rules governing the flying of microlights and drones. Draft guidelines issued by the   ( ) bans model aircraft along with drones, unmanned aircraft and other remotely-piloted objects, but they are yet to be passed as a law.
 
