HYDERABAD: The Hyderabad woman,  , who was recently pushed off the third-floor of building by her employer in Damam, Saudi Arabia, was again kicked and beaten up by him on Friday. The kafil,  , barged into the police station where she was shifted from the hospital and inflicted blows on the hapless woman. The incident took place at 8 pm when hardly anyone was there in the Area No. 91 Police Station. 

 "Tell your son in India that I will not let you go until he sends a replacement for you," Khalifa reportedly told her as he thrashed her. 
 
 Union external affairs minister   had reacted immediately to a report which appeared in TOI on Thursday which had highlighted Haseena Begum's plight in Damam. She had been pushed from the third floor of his house by the kafil. She had to be hospitalised with fractured legs and back injury. On Saturday morning, two volunteers sent by Indian Embassy in Riyadh located Haseena Begum in Area No. 91 Police Station. The local police reportedly went to the Damam Centre Hospital, Medical Tower and shifted her to police station. 
 
 "The kafil came to the police station and beat me up. I was taken to the hospital once again and brought back," Haseena Begum told her son Mohd Wajid on phone from Damam. She spoke to her son in Hyderabad with the help of the social workers who had gone to see her. She narrated how she was abused and beaten up by the kafil again. 
 
 "When people who gathered in front of the police station shouted 'haram haram' (forbidden), he went away," she said in the phone conversation with her son which he recorded. Haseena Begum whose legs are in bandages was dazed and crying after the second attack by the kafil. Her son Mohd Wajid told TOI on Saturday evening that he feared for his mother's life. "My mother is not safe. She has to be rescued quickly," he said. 
 
 "Action has to be taken against two agents who sent my mother from Hyderabad to Saudi Arabia. They are responsible for her plight," Wajid said. MBT leader   said Haseena Begum was now in the Indian embassy's ladies deportation centre. "She will be sent to a hospital on Sunday by a woman volunteer of the Indian Embassy," he said.
 
 The chief secretary of Telangana sent a letter to the Indian Embassy in Saudi Arabia and the secretary, ministry of external affairs and overseas Indian affairs, government of India, to take steps to send her back as early as possible. 
 
 
