BENGALURU: The official declaration of B S Yeddyurappa as the BJP's chief ministerial candidate for the 2018 polls is expected to blunt dissidence in the party. In an interview to STOI, Union minister for chemical and fertilizers H N Ananth Kumar, who has been playing a vital role in the BJP's national and state politics, said the BJP never chooses a leader based on caste.

 
 
 
 I will be the catalyst to bring the BJP to power. Yeddyurappa has been declared the CM candidate and I will be part of the commitment to win 150 seats for the party. The BJP is going to perform a hat-trick in 2017-2018 by winning Gujarat,   and Karnataka. In Karnataka, the victory will be a decisive one as it will be the chemistry of the party, and not the arithmetic which CM Siddaramaiah and former CM H D   are practising.
 
 
 
 
 People want aspirational and not arithmetic politics.They will vote for Modi's governance. Declaring Yeddyurappa, keeping the Lingayat votes in mind and also breaking the party's rule that those above 75 years shouldn't hold administrative posts, is not arithmetic politics? I have answered your question.... My party does not choose a leader on caste, but on merit.
 
 
 
 
 We are the biggest political party in the country today. Three incidents of 1952, 1980 and 1989 will show this is not a new-found love for dalits. In 1952, when the   tried to defeat our Constitution architect B R Ambedkar, it was Shyama Prasad Mukherjee of Bharatiya Jana Sangh, who ensured the former got elected to the Rajya Sabha. In 1980, the BJP declared Babu Jagjeevanram as the PM candidate and in 1989, the V P Singh government which was supported by us, conferred the Bharat Ratna on Ambedkar.It is the Congress which should be asked why it did not do what the BJP did for dalits.
 
 
 
 The concern for dalits is our practice. Tokenism is being demonstrated by the Congress, not by us. I was also present when 10 BJP members accompanied by Yeddyurappa visited the dalit family's house in  . The woman of the house took out vegetable tatthe idli from a cooker and served us.
 
 With several BJP leaders from Karnataka at the national level wanting to return to state politics in 2018, what are your plans? It's a misnomer that there are two compartments such as national and state politics. As an MP from Bengaluru, I have stood up for all issues pertaining to the city by taking it up at the national level.
 
 
 
 Introducing the neem-coating of urea as 20% of the total 320 lakh metric tonnes produced which used to go to paint, liquor and other sectors. There are no riots for supply of urea now and for Karnataka, I have ensured 1 lakh metric tonnes is ready for the khariff season starting from June.Secondly , the initiative of capping cardiac stents at Rs 7,260 for bare metal ones and Rs 29,600 for drug eluting variety .Thirdly , making 500 essential drugs available through generic medical outlets which resulted in a medicine priced at Rs 100 being sold at Rs 30.There are 1,400 generic outlets across the country .
 
