DEHRADUN: Taking a clue from his Uttar Pradesh counterpart and party colleague Aditya Nath Yogi, who has banned ‘paan’ and ‘gutkha’ use in government offices, Trivendra Singh Rawat’s   government too has swung into action imposing a hefty fine of Rs 5,000 or a jail term up to six months on people found spitting on office premises or other public places.

 Urban development department officials said the order would be enforced by all municipal corporations in the state under the Anti-Littering Law passed in November last. Residents, too, have hailed the move, with some claiming that it will go a long way in ensuring sanitation in the city.
 
 A senior official said all modalities were in place for successful enforcement of the law, which included a fine of Rs 5,000 or a jail term up to six months.
 
 Officials said it would help inculcate a habit of cleanliness among people by raising their awareness.
 
 Secretary, urban development, Arvind Singh Hyanki said, “We have been directed to strictly enforce the Act, which was passed around five months back. As of now, it is being enforced in urban areas only. Enforcement in rural areas is solely the discretion of the government. We will ensure that people do not litter public places.”
 
 According to officials, repeat offenders will be imprisoned for six months, apart from monetary penalty.
 
  health officer Dr Kailash Gunjyal told TOI, “We have formed several teams comprising sanitation inspectors, supervisors and workers, who will conduct regular checks across the city every day. They will also be given ‘challan’ booklet to fine offenders on the spot. If someone is found violating the rule repeatedly, we will take legal course against him.”
 
 Welcoming the move, Ram Kumar, a city resident, said, “The Act should have been enforced a long time back, but better late than never. Not only in Uttarakhand, but across the country, people even don’t think before  , which is a major problem. Most of the government offices or heritage buildings are tobacco stained, which is unhygienic. Officials should enforce the law strictly for its success.”
 
