BENGALURU: Localities off  , like Kamakshipalya, Sunkadakatte and Tavarekere have for decades been havens for rowdies. A large swathe of this area is semi-urban, with haphazardly grown and thickly populated residential enclaves dotting the countryside, providing perfect cover for youngsters ending up on the wrong side of the law.

 While political patronage has resulted in one of the rowdies from the area even becoming a lawmaker, not all are as lucky. Many are felled by rivals in endless armed skirmishes the area is notorious for. But the   brothers -Ramesh alias Poison Rama and K   alias Kadabagere Seena alias Dhaba Seena -are among the lucky lot, having survived in the business for over two decades now.
 
 Srinivas was lucky again on Friday when two bikeborne men shot at him but he survived as, according to police, the job appeared to be an amateur one. Going by Srinivas' antecedents, police suspect personal rivalry could be behind Friday's attack.
 
 As Srinivas lay in a Hebbal hospital, his worried brother, Poison Rama, who was on the run from the police in a case where he had attacked witnesses in a murder case recently, rushed down to visit his brother, only to be promptly picked up by police for questioning.
 
 Srinivas, from Kadabagere, off Magadi Road, was a rowdy sheeter before entering politics. He had 13 cases, including murder, rioting and criminal intimidation, filed against him. Apart from that, he had changed his political affiliation.
 
 “During investigation, we came to know that Srinivas has records in Bengaluru Rural. So we got in touch with the IGP, Central Range, and are looking into his antecedents and background to draw up a list of suspects,“ said PS Harsha, DCP , northeast.
 
 Srinivas was said to be a confidant of a Bharatiya Janata Party MLA but had recently switched to the Congress.
 
 IN AND OUT OF JAIL
 
 Ramesh alias Rama alias Poison Rama, entered police records in 2000 when he allegedly poisoned a rival. That day on, `Poison' was prefixed to his name. Rama is accused in several cases of extortion, robbery and threat. He is also one of the land mafia kingpins who call the shots in areas between Magadi Road and Tumakuru Road. Recently, Rama allegedly attempted to murder three witnesses scheduled to appear before a city court, in connection with the 2008 murder of anti-liquor activist A T Babu.While one of the attackers was arrested, Rama managed to evade arrest till Friday .
 
 In 2015, Benglauru Rural police were on the lookout for Poison Rama in a case where he had allegedly hacked to death an associate, Bhavani.Rama, though, had silently surrendered before Ramanagara police in connection with a dacoity case. It took a while for Bengaluru police to trace Rama and take him into custody for questioning.
 
 Rama, who was sent back to Ramanagara prison, later managed to obtain bail in the dacoity case and walk out of jail. Bengaluru Rural police returned to the Ramanagara prison for further questioning only to realize that he had managed to give them the slip.
 
