NAGPUR: BJP worker Salim Shah (32), who was once the in-charge of the party’s minority cell in Katol taluka and has been a worker since the last 12 years, was beaten till he fell unconscious by cow vigilantes for allegedly carrying beef. The incident happened at 10am on Wednesday at Barasinghi chowk, around 85 kms away from here and within the limits of   police station in Nagpur Rural.

 Shah was also booked for carrying ‘beef’ even as the forensic report is awaited. The incident only came to light on Thursday after newspapers were informed about Shah undergoing treatment at Mayo Hospital in city.
 
 This is probably the second such incident in Vidarbha. The earlier one had taken place at Rajora in Washim district on May 26 when someone was targeted for carrying ‘beef’.
 
 District police have made four arrests. Riot control police have been deployed at different sensitive localities and additional manpower has been provided to every police stations. Nagpur Rural SP Shailesh Balkawade immediately used the social media to issue warnings against rumour-mongering. However, the clip of Shah being thrashed was being circulated within groups since the time of the incident.
 
 Shah, a cotton and pulses trader, had purchased around 15kg meat from Amner village at Warud tehsil in Amravati district. The meat was kept in the dickey of his scooter. He was returning to his residence at Katol taluka in Nagpur district when he was attacked by the cow vigilantes armed with sticks. 
 
 Shah, while speaking to media, said that the meat was of ‘door’ (a Marathi word meaning the entire bovine family). “I was targeted by around four to five people,” he said. 
 
 Shah’s wife Zareen, speaking to a section of media, claimed that being a member of Shah community they do not trade in meat nor are they butchers. “We had to participate in a religious programme of the local mosque body on a hillock for which the meat had been purchased as community meal,” she said. 
 
 The vigilantes, led by independent MLA Bacchu Kadu’s Prahar Sangthatna’s taluka president Moreshwar Tandulkar (26), pulled down Shah from his scooter and showered blows on him. Tandulkar also roped in Ashwin Uikey (25), Rameshwar Taywade (42) and Jagdish Choudhuri (25). Shah was finally thrown into a field.
 
 The four have been remanded to police custody till July 17. Investigating officer sub-inspector VK Korde of Jalalkheda police said that Uikey, Taywade and Chaudhuri were local auto-rickshaw drivers. “Police rescued Shah from the mob and rushed him to a local primary health centre at Jalalkheda from where his relatives had taken him to Mayo Hospital in Nagpur,” said Korde. 
 
 The Jalalkheda police station, located around 5km away from the place of incident, was alerted by a citizen. The role of Jalalkheda police has come under scanner for registering an offence against Shah for transporting beef — which is banned in   — even before a forensic confirmation.
 
 SP Balkawade said that the meat was sealed in the presence of a veterinarian and sent to the   in Nagpur. “If the report of the RFSL comes negative then we shall discharge the victim (Shah),” he said.
 
 “We had applied strict sections under India penal code (IPC 326) against the assaulters,” Balkawade added.
 
 Kadu has condemned the act but blamed the government for poor execution of the beef ban.
 
 Sayyed Aseem Ali, an activist of the National Anti-Terrorism Organization which is a group of young Sunni Muslims, has criticized the actions of the cow vigilantes, stating that they should have informed and alerted police rather than taking the law in hand. 
 
 Maha to soon have beef testing kit
 
 The Maharashtra police will soon introduce portable test kits in the forensic mobile vans of every unit. DGP (legal and technical) SP Yadav said the training is under way in Mumbai for the personnel to be able to utilize the kit which can perform preliminary test of the beef and give a result within three hours. 
 
 “In every district, police unit would have at least two experts who can handle the test kit in the mobile forensic vans. Apart from beef, the kit can be used to conduct various kinds of others tests too pertaining to general crimes, atrocities against women and such sensitive cases,” he said. 
 
 “The training of the first batch is almost concluded. Three more batches would be henceforth trained after which the kit would be provided to each police unit,” added Yadav. 
 
