NAGPUR: Amicus curiae Shreerang   has sought compensation of Rs1 crore per child in the suo motu   (PIL) on electrocution of Dhar brothers by high tension lines. Responding to this plea, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court ordered Armors Township’s builder Anand Khobragade to submit his financial status so that the compensation amount for the family can be determined.

 While hearing the PIL, which is based on a series of TOI reports, a division bench of justices   and Rohit Deo on Friday further ordered formation of a committee ‘to conduct physical verification of 141 high-risk areas where HT lines pose a threat to human lives.’ The committee has to submit a report fixing accountability and preventive and remedial measures.
 
 Notices have been issued to 14 respondents in the case — state urban development department, state energy department, Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission, MSEDCL, MSETCL, SNDL, Nagpur Improvement Trust, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), town planning departments of NMC and NIT, Commissioner of Police, Jaripatka police, MIDC police and Khobragade.
 
 Khobragade, who allegedly misled the residents and constructed row houses right below a 33KV HT line, has been asked to file an affidavit regarding movable and immovable financial assets belonging to him and his family members within a week. He has also been restrained from creating third party interest in the township.
 
 In the PIL, Bhandarkar stated that the statutory authorities have been negligent in discharging their duties, leading to around 5,000 deaths in the state due to electric shock between 2010 and 2016. Apart from this, 3,675 persons suffered injuries out of which 1,574 were staffers of MSEDCL.
 
 He has prayed for immediately installing safety and protective devices on the power lines laid over streets and public places.
 
 The petition also pointed out that despite sanctioning Rs200 crores under the Integrated power Development Scheme for converting overhead lines into underground cables, the proposal remains stuck at MSEDCL’s head office in Mumbai.
 
 Bhandarkar appealed for immediate conversion of overhead lines to be started.
 
 Stating that the town planning authorities had numerous opportunities at every stage of development to inspect for flaws or dereliction of rules, the PIL charged that the then assistant director of town planning (ADTP), NMC, Sujata Kadu was ‘squarely responsible for granting sanction to the township without adhering to the Development Control Regulations and other norms.’
 
 The petition urged NMC and NIT to reveal the names of concerned officials who were involved in granting sanctions to various townships, layouts, buildings and other infrastructures under and close to live HT lines. It further appealed HC to direct the civic agencies to divulge the details pertaining to such permissions.
 
 Bhandarkar, in the petition, has held police officials responsible for ‘aggravating the injury to the victims’ by not registering First Information Report (FIR) at the first instance of receiving complaint by the victims’ family. He prayed that departmental action should be taken against concerned police officials.
 
 The petition has taken support of a survey of risk-prone areas that was recently conducted by social activist Anil Wadpalliwar. During the survey, he found several spots where HT lines were dangerously close to buildings. 
 
 
