NEW DELHI:   attacked the   on Saturday for failing to keep the promise it made two years back of starting   to give nutritious meals at affordable rates to the poor. 

 BJP MLA and the leader of Opposition   had raised the issue in the assembly in March this year. “In reply to the issue raised by me, the health department, which was given the task of implementing the project, informed that it can’t implement it. The Kejriwal government had made a false promise of opening Aam Aadmi Canteens. Till date, it hasn’t opened the canteens. The health department has refused to implement the Delhi cabinet order,” said Gupta.
 
 In a reply to the issue raised by Gupta, the health department said that the deputy secretary (legislation), legislative assembly secretariat, had asked the department of health and family welfare to run Aam Aadmi Canteens in accordance with the decision taken by Delhi cabinet.
 
 The health department also informed Gupta that the “with reference to allocation of Business Rules, GNCT, and it was found to fall outside the mandate of the department of health and family welfare”. The matter has been referred to the health minister for further orders, informed the official in the letter. 
 
 Gupta said, “I have been raising the issue for the past two years. But it is clear from all the documents that the Kejriwal government has neither made any preparation nor took any logical action in this regard.” Gupta added that while it didn’t have any plan in place to start Aam Aadmi Canteens, the Kejriwal government was prompt in closing   started by the Congress government earlier.
 
 “They promised to provide nutritional meals for Rs 5 to Rs 10 through these canteens in hospitals, offices, slums, industrial areas, markets and educational institutions to 10 lakh workers, 5 lakh hawkers and more than 4 lakh slum dwellers. But nothing has been done till now,” said Gupta.
 
 Sources in the Delhi government expressed surprise over the letter written to Gupta by the department. Officials said the health minister was not consulted before sending the reply. “We will look into the matter,” said the official. 
 
