For   resident  ,   began as an activity to keep himself fit in 2014. Little did the 26-year-old know that in less than three years, the activity that he picked up because he 'hated gyms' would help him make a world record. Last month, Devanshu completed a gruelling cycling trip around the 6,000km-long   highway in 20 days. And the feat might get his name in the  . Devanshu, who contacted the record keepers before starting his attempt, says, "In fact, I'm also the first person to complete this within the stipulated time of 20 days set by Guinness arbitrators. Other cyclists have attempted to cover the Quadrilateral before me, but have either not finished or taken longer than 20 days." Last year, New Zealand's Tim Chittock completed the journey in 24 days.

  Devanshu began his journey from Delhi on March 5, and travelled along the highway that connects Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, and Kolkata over the next 20 days, reaching the finish line on March 25, barely 90 minutes before his deadline. He was accompanied in his journey by a friend, and a car that carried a driver and a masseuse – his support staff for the record attempt. 
 
  Devanshu tells us that it wasn't smooth sailing for him all through the way. "I must have also created the record for most tyre punctures on a single cycling trip! I had 32 punctures in the 20 days that I rode along the highway, and each of those punctures cost me a lot of time. Fortunately, I was able to pull through when it mattered the most and cross the finish line within time," he says.
 
  
  Devanshu crossed many cities on his trip, including Jaipur
 
  During his 20-day ride, Devanshu also celebrated his birthday along the way on March 21. And in the spirit of the record attempt, there was no cake or celebration, just a another day of gruelling ride. He tells us, "I celebrated my birthday on the road. I was near Cuttack and a little behind my schedule. So, on my birthday, I started riding early and that one was of the best days for me because I covered a lot of distance and made up for quite a lot of lost time. With few breaks for rest and food, I must have cycled till almost midnight that day and stopped only when I reached Kolkata, covering over 400km on a single day."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  Talking about his motivation to embark on this journey, Devanshu says, "I picked up cycling as an activity to keep me fit because I hate gyms. But over the years, it grew from a 30-40 minute activity per day to a stage where I rode 40-50km daily. I had read about record attempts on the Golden Quadrilateral and wondered if I could do it. It was around December first week that I started preparing for it seriously." Having seen the roads and cycling tracks across the length and breadth of India, Devanshu finds the cycling scene in Delhi quite annoying, largely because of the motorists' disregard for cyclists. He says, "Delhi doesn't have cycle tracks and the roads are just too annoying to take. The traffic is so maddening that it infuriates you no end. That is why most cyclists in Delhi-NCR take the highways when they ride instead of going within the city. I always get agitated when I cycle in Delhi."
 
 Devanshu has sent his application for the world record the Guinness Book and the process of getting the 'record-setter' title is underway.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
