PUNE: The district   office has come up with a unique way to declare that they have achieved their targets and distributed all the medicines sent to them by the state. Their way of doing so is by simply destroying the stock left in the godown. This became evident on Friday afternoon when officials attached to the district malaria office at Yerwada were caught red-handed dumping buckets full of chloroquine tablets mixed with water out in the open, while their wrappers were set on fire. Their target was to destroy over 20-odd cartons, each containing around 500 strips (10 tablets per strip) of the medicine that is used to treat malaria patients.

 The episode came to light on Friday afternoon when Hemant Dhamdhere, president of a newly founded social group called Arjun Sena, was in the vicinity of the district malaria office to meet a friend. As he approached his friend's house, he saw men walking out of the godown, holding a steel bucket full of tablets. Another group was setting empty tablet leafs on fire. When Dhamdhere questioned them, they rushed back into the godown, their fear evident. This uncalled-for behaviour made Dhamdhere and his friends -Pankaj Pawar, Girish Tibhe and Dinesh Padval -suspicious. The group rushed inside the godown only to find that the employees were disposing of the medicines.
 
 The staff had opened several cartons, and removed tablets from the strips. The tablets were collected in buckets and water was poured over them. Once they were sufficiently mashed, the tablets were taken out and dumped on the open ground. Not wanting to leave any traces, the staff was prompt to collect the empty wrappers and set them on fire. All the strips had an expiry of April 2017, a good one month away.
 
 Dhamdhere and his associates immediately alerted the local cops, who came to the spot and sealed the godown. The police, however, are yet to register a formal complaint or act.
 
 “These medicines are meant for the welfare of the people. When we questioned the people who were disposing of them, they merely said that they had gone bad and had to be gotten rid of. However, when we checked the medicines, we found out that they would expire only in April 2017 and that most of the boxes had not even been opened,“ Dhamdhere said.
 
 Every strip costs around Rs 10-15 depending on the manufacturer. Sources in the state health department revealed that such tablets are procured centrally by the purchase committee in   and distributed to the districts. “In a bid to show that they have exhausted the stock sent to them and that they have been doing their job efficiently, district officials resort to a whole lot of tactics. This is one of them,“ said a senior official, requesting anonymity.
 
 When Mirror contacted officials in the Pune district malaria office, they were quick to blame it all on a cat that had died in their godown. District malaria office in-charge,   said, “I wasn't at the spot when the incident occurred. But, when I enquired, I was told that the medicines had gone bad because a cat had died inside the room.Considering this, there was no need to look at the expiry date. There is a process to be followed, but that is usually related to disposal of the plastic and more importantly, it is taken into account only after they have expired.“ Dr Hemant Joshi, assistant director for the malaria control office for the district, said, “I was informed about the incident rather late. I have not been able to visit the spot myself because the godown has been locked and the keys are with the inspector at Yerwada police station who is on leave till Monday. Only once I visit the godown and see for myself will I be able to gauge exactly what has happened.“
 
 He added, “If, according to Dhamdhere's complaint, the medicines were being disposed of by dissolving them and burning the packets, it is definitely a transgression. After the medicines expire, there is a process that must be followed. A report is filed, data related to how many are being disposed of and how many were used is collected and then they are disposed of. I will be conducting an inquiry and filing a report,“ he added.
 
 Senior officials in the state health department however have already ordered an inquiry into the incident. Dr  , director, directorate of health services, said, “As per the guidelines, medicines can be destroyed only after the expiry date. Nobody has the power or the authority to destroy them before. Also, as per the state health department purchase norms, leftover medicines cannot be destroyed at the local or district level. As per our calculations, the excess stock is merely 0.5 per cent or one per cent of the entire lot. If there are surplus medicines, the officials need to inform the state health department. They are then destroyed as per guidelines issued by the   (MPCB). Such stock is to be treated as biomedical waste and is sent to a common treatment facility.“
 
 “I will conduct an inquiry into this incident,“ Pawar added.
 
