Bhopal: Newly-laid sewage and storm water drains by the   (BMC) have been rendered infective due to faulty design. Civic body’s top engineering staff are now blaming the pressure from local politicians and encroachments for faulty execution of these projects.

 Civic body engineers are looking the other way, as private contractors in cahoots with builders are changing contour of city roads. In the latest instance, a Rs 10 lakh sewage and storm water drain line constructed in walled city has been rendered ineffective. 
 
 Foundation of the project in Talaiya area was laid by mayor   earlier in May. Delay in execution of the project was highlighted by TOI. Soon after the report, the private contractor and BMC engineers filled the open drain with few outlets for water to pass through. 
 
 On closer inspection, residents claimed that the level of drain is higher than the existing road. “The idea for having a drain has been defeated. Now the drain has only narrowed the already narrow road,” said a local resident. When contacted, mayor Sharma said, “I would inspect the area and seek clarification from BMC engineers for the lapse.” 
 
 BMC engineers responsible for the task did not respond. “We are under pressure from politicians who often resort to unscientific means to fulfil the task,” said a city planner.
 
 State capital does not have a   and has moved the Union government for Rs 1,500 crore funding for the same. 
 
 Changes in contour of the road and water-logging has also been reported from MP Nagar. A controversial project to lay pipeline in MP Nagar Zone 1 has resulted in water-logging. 
 
 Commercial enterprises have encroached upon the pavement and BMC development work has only aided their ability to encroach, said Satish Singh, a businessman.
 
 For people entering the city, a waterlogged entrance of   is an unwelcome surprise. Drain lines passing through the cemented road have been clogged. “Crossing over by foot to change another lane is not possible. Such water logging is not even witnessed in small towns,” said Neelabh Shrivastava, a commuter.
 
 
