MUMBAI: Making a clear break from its strategy of focusing mainly on the premium car segment,  , the second largest car maker in India is widening its product portfolio in the compact vehicle segment with two new product introductions in a bid to build volumes and regain market share lost to the leader  .
 
  With several premium car introductions over the last two years, Hyundai Motor saw its market share witnessing a marginal dip. This is likely to change in 2018, as Hyundai will be introducing its new entry  , followed by a sub-4 metre   in 2019, which could potentially add 5-7% market share for the company,  , managing director of Hyundai Motor India told ET in a recent interview.
  
  According to several vendors who are in the know of the carmaker’s plan, Hyundai Motor is planning to make about 9 lakh units per annum in the next five years. Koo who is credited to have played a key role in establishing   in India says Hyundai will be back to double-digit growth momentum from next year till 2020, led by an aggressive product line-up. And the company has an aspirational target of doing about 1 million units in the next five years.
  
  “Once we have the compact cars in our portfolio, the growth will accelerate. These are new segment products which we don’t have right now. We will be launching the new compact car in the second half of 2018 and small SUV in the 1st half of 2019,” Koo said.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  For sure with the two compact cars, the numbers it will generate will be more than they make in the premium category. “These are volume products, and these are not 3,000 to 4,000 units per month, these can easily do over 10,000 units per month," he added.
  
  Hyundai Motor India achieved a milestone of half a million units sales in FY 17, but the company’s market share slipped about 55 basis points to 16.73% at a time when the market leader Maruti Suzuki went on a rampage, grabbing market share from the competition.
  
  Maruti Suzuki ended FY 17 with a market share of 47.38% and has seen its market share cross 50% this fiscal year. In first five months of this fiscal year, Hyundai’s volumes grew 3% as against 8-9% market growth. Hyundai’s market share slipped further to 16.23%.
  
  Koo is unfazed and says it is not a bad outcome considering that the company did not have a major product introduction since Creta and with i10 getting discontinued, a 3-5% growth is acceptable. “The company did not have a major product introduction in the last two years, but between 2017-2020, Hyundai is got to be aggressive with series of products, so 20% or even more is possible,” added Koo.
  
  Led by the   with over 10,000 bookings, in the month of August, Hyundai Motor India dispatched about 47,103 units, its highest in 10 months. The momentum will accelerate further says Koo. Hyundai has another challenge as it has to manage capacity. Koo says a decision is still to be taken on the next phase of investment and the company will keep juggling between allotting capacity between domestic and export which currently stands at 7 lakh units.
  
  “In the last two decades, we invested about Rs 20,000 crore in India in plant capacities and to develop new products. In the next four years, we will launch eight new products till 2020. To develop eight new products we will have to invest Rs 5,000 crore,” Koo said. 
