It has been many years since   died under mysterious circumstances, but stories related to him fascinate people even today. ' : Love and Betrayal in the Time of Netaji', as the name suggests, is a new fictional book set in the backdrop of the Indian freedom struggle. The book was recently lauched by Bollywood actress   on February 28 in Mumbai.
 
 'The Wrong Turn: Love and Betrayal in the Time of Netaji' is written by authors   and  . The book is set in 1944, Kohima when Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose and his   (INA) along with the Japanese troops, tried to force the British out of India but fail to succeed. Seventy years after the battle, the British admit that the Battle of Kohima was one of their greatest battles ever fought. So why couldn't Netaji succeed? Was it betrayal from someone in the army or was he fighting against love?
  
 Sharing more insights about the book, co-author Sanjay Chopra said in a statement, “The Wrong Turn is a story that traverses the cities of Calcutta, Singapore,   and Kohima caught up in the blaze of the Second World War. It is about the clash of four desperate forces as they come together in Kohima to vie for the brightest jewel in the crown -- India. Victory will come to those who possess not just the coldest steel but even colder hearts.” Sanjay is an airline pilot, author of two short stories' collections- 'Said and Done' and 'Tailspin' stories, and is married to actress Tisca Chopra.
  
 Talking about the book and how they chose the story, Namita Roy Ghose, co-author said, “This was a story waiting to be told. So much about Netaji was smoke and mirrors, partial views foisted on us by the British and other vested interests. Here was a man who was a personal hero, who was part of the lore of my childhood. And here was a chance to set the narrative straight - through the lens of a very human yet universal story of love.” Namita owns a film company.
  
 Also seen at the book launch were Rajat Kapoor, Simone Singh, Tigmangshu Dhulia, Arshad Warsi, Anil Dharker, Tisca Chopra, Maria Goretti, Sayani Gupta, Kavita Kaushik, Ranvir Shorey and Mushtaq Sheikh.
 
 
