Washington based Dr  , 90, is the grandfather of the threemillion-strong   in the US.

 When Babra landed in Washington DC in September 1955, there were not even a 100 Indians in the country , barring the old Punjabi settlement of Yuba City in California.
 
 “India's visa quota in those days used to be just one hun dred. US vis curbs eased only after John F Kennedy became p re s i dent,'' says Babra, who was the first Indian to become a permanent resident in Washington.
 
 “In Washington DC, too, the only Indians were employees of the Indian embassy,'' recalls Dr Babra, who was the first Sikh to get a doctorate degree from any Wash ington university .
 
 Then he went on to become the first Sikh to join the World Bank in 1962 and to head various divisions till his retirement in 1987.
 
 “The only daal we could get in those days was through Indian embassy employees coming from India. I used to go to a Spanish store that sold beans. There are 7-8 gurdwaras here oday, but there was none back then. We used to celebrates Gurpurb and Di wali at the houses of Indian embas sy employees,'' says Dr Babra who raised money and got land for the first-ever Sikh Cul tural Society Center in the US capital.
 
 A witness to the rise of the Indian community in the US, Dr Babra was a classmate of Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal in Lahore. “Badal and I were classmates at Sikh National College, Lahore. He was not studious and left for Foreman Christian College after his second year,'' he remembers.
 
 Born at Galotian village near Sialkot in 1927, Babra was among student leaders of Lahore's Sikh National College who took up arms against the Muslim League on the call of Akali leader Master Tara Singh in 1947.
 
 “Master Tara Singh's call in March 1947 to oppose Partition angered Muslims.This led to the infamous `rape of Rawalpindi' when Muslim mobs attacked Sikh villages of the Pothohar region. In response, over 500 students of Sikh National College took out processions in Lahore. Police raided our college and arrested seven leaders, including me,'' says Babra. He was in his village on bail when the Partition day came. He moved to Delhi and completed his MA in mathematics in 1950 from Panjab University which had relocated some of its departments to Delhi. Then he left for the UK where he was lucky to get a clerical job in the Indian high commission in London. But after sometime, America beckoned.
 
 
 
 
 A friend of the first Indian American Congressman Dalip Singh Saund, Babra says, “In 1973 when Saund died, we held his bhog ceremony here. It was the first time that we brought the Guru Granth Sahib to Capitol Hill.''
 
 
