PATNA: A day after chief minister   called for a “solid mechanism” to tackle incidents of fire, another major fire occurred in the city when the telecommunication office of   (PGCIL), located at Boring Road roundabout, went up in flames on Tuesday.
 
  The fire destroyed three costly telecommunication equipment of the corporation and led to disruption of its internal telecommunication services. The destroyed equipment were providing pan-India connectivity to 15 other offices of the corporation in Patna through optical fibre network. The equipment were also providing internet bandwidth to offices of National Informatics Centre, Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited and Sify along with educational institutes like National Institute of Fashion Technology, Chandragupta Institute of Management, A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies and L N Mishra Institute of   and Social Change in Patna.
  
  A senior PGCIL official said another telecommunication office at the corporation’s Gaurichak power sub-station will be temporarily used for providing pan-India connectivity to all its offices in Patna. “Restoration of internet bandwidth being supplied from the Boring Road office to other government and educational institutes might take a day or two. Internet services at all these offices would remain affected till then,” he added.
  
  The four-storey building, E-Mall, had an electronic goods showroom of multinational brand and three other offices. Seven staff, an attendant and a guard were present at the PGCIL office on the first floor of the building when the fire broke out this afternoon. The building is located near G V Mall which went up in flames on Saturday.
  
  “We are assessing the loss incurred due to the fire,” said  , manager of the corporation’s Boring Road office, adding the office was supposed to be shifted to another location soon.
  
  Lodipur fire station officer   said one of the air-conditioning equipment installed inside the room exploded, causing the fire. “Surprisingly, no fire fighting equipment was installed in the office,” he said, adding four fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the flames.
  
  The corporation has five more telecom offices in the state – one each at Biharsharif, Muzaffarpur, Gaurichak, Lakhisarai and Bhojpur.
