LUCKNOW: Unanimous distrust of government run hospitals, unaffordable private care and mismanagement of major disease outbreaks like dengue and chikungunya are just a few health-related concerns that have irked residents of Lucknow east constituency. They haven't seen or known their MLA   (BJP) after elections. Residents say it was only Swaroop Kumari Bakshi--she won the seat from 1974-1985 for four terms-who traversed the roads on foot. A number of demands came to the fore when TOI spoke to residents. These included uplift of government health care facilities to instil people's trust in them, revision of rates for health care in government hospitals to include upper middle class and subsidised treatment and regulation in private set-ups for affordable care and health insurance schemes from the government to involve all strata of society.
INDIRANAGAR
 
 | Garbage dumped in lanes attract disease-causing flies and mosquitoes, residents say. People also fear visiting government hospitals because of poor sanitation. “There is just so much filth around that the area is a breeding ground for diseases. Even during dengue outbreak, it was only after public protests that some attention was paid, albeit temporarily,“ said Archana Mehrotra, resident of A block.Rajshree, a resident of Bhootnath, said, “Not just dengue, seasonal fevers and viral infections are common. We have been asking public representatives for health camps, but to no avail.“ Jai Singh, a resident of C block, said since private health care is costly, they had given a memorandum to candidates who came during 2012 elections to provide subsidised care to middle class in government hospitals. “All promised us the same but nothing happened.“
 
 NEW HYDERABAD-NISHATGANJ
 
 | “There is a Phool Park here but it doesn't even have weeds, only stones and heaps of garbage.This is the case with almost all the parks,“ pointed out KP Srivastava of New Hyderabad. “Only   made regular visits. Even her successor  , MLA for three terms, did no footwork for us,“ he added.Residents said their demand for proper upkeep of parks has fallen on deaf ears for years. Traffic in narrow lanes causes both noise and air pollution leading to health hazards. There is no information disseminated by the health department.
 
 GOMTINAGAR
 
 | While a large number of dengue cases were reported from and around Gomtinagar, residents say there was no awareness drive and anti-larva fogging was done only around VIP homes.“There was a lot of panic around dengue outbreak in 2016 and government hospitals were not the first option for people. Private hospitals only encashed the situation and looted us,“ said RP Dubey who lives in Viram Khand. No major political party made dengue an issue, nor did any leader come to visit, said Shashikant Singh, another resident. While the area has some green cover in the form of   and  , scarcity of society parks is a concern.
 
