

 Those worn-out, discarded truck tyres at a scrapyard hardly warranting a glance can actually adorn your feet as a trendy piece of footwear with the help of a little bit of imagination, creativity and of course, labour.
 
 Jay Rege, an MBA who was running a consultancy for students seeking foreign education till a few years ago, would tell you.
 
 Jay, along with his MBA wife Jothsna, sells slippers and shoes made out of used truck tyres under the brand of his Chembur-based start-up called Paaduks. The colourful and funky footwear, in various designs and price ranges, are sold online through the brand’s website, www.paaduks.com, besides being available at some select stores.
 
 “We began Paaduks in 2013. I was randomly browsing the Internet when I read about an individual who imported scrap tyres from Indonesia, used them as soles of sandals and sold them in the US. We ideated on the concept and decided to do something similar in India,” said Jay.
 
 While the tyres are sourced from scrap dealers, natural fabrics like cotton and jute are bought from the local market to design the inner and outer portions of the shoe. The price range varies between Rs 399 and Rs 1,100.
 
 “We use the side walls of the tyres as soles. The side walls are chiselled to make them flat. They are then cut, using a metal die and a clicker machine in the shape of a sole,’ he said, adding that comfort and durability were their focus points.
 
 “Our shoes are designed for both men and women. In fact, our shoes go best with Indian ethnic fashion. They can be worn with Indian clothes or even casuals like jeans. We soon plan to unveil a new product range of sandals, which are entirely made from tyres and tubes. The base is made from the tyre and the straps from the tube,” says Paaduks’ design head Carol Cornelio.
 
 Paaduks has especially come as a boon for cobblers, giving them employment and good working conditions.
 
 “I have been with Paaduks for around two years. The encouragement is motivating as we not only get paid on time but also have a share in the profits of the company. We also have good working conditions with fixed work timings from 9 am to 6 pm and weekends off,” said Chand Mohammed, a cobbler with Paaduks.
 
 Jothsna, co-founder of Paaduks, said that it was only when they started on the venture that they realised that how cobblers were struggling to survive.
 
 “It was then that we decided to turn Paaduks into a venture, which not only makes eco-friendly footwear but also creates a positive social impact by providing sustainable livelihood. In doing so, we abide by the agreed fair trade standards,” she said.
 
 Asked about the source of funding, Jay said, “We have put in our own money for their venture. We haven’t actively sought funding so far, but we are open to the idea.”
 
 Pointing out that the idea was to focus more on online sales than retail stores, Jay summed up, “We have tapped the social media effectively. In fact, we began by promoting our products on Facebook and Instagram, which has helped us reach out to a pan-India clientele. Collaborations have ensured that some of our products are available at select retail shops in Bangalore, Delhi and Pune. Almost 25 per cent of our online orders come from Bangalore, though most of our sales take place through the website.”
 
 
 
