PANAJI: Two weeks after the facility of postal ballot voting was set open for government servants and police personnel who were on polling duty on February 4, a facilitation camp has been organised by the election commission, in all the offices of returning officers (RO), on February 18. 

 The election commission’s decision has come in for criticism from former state election commissioner Prabhakar Timble, who is now the president of   ( ). “How can special camps be announced after voting has commenced and why is the election office getting unduly proactive on postal ballots?”, he asked, adding that things are getting “murkier” by the day. “Perception index of fairness about ECI is falling,” he said.
 
 Secondly, the decision comes a day after a complaint was filed by a government official, who was posted as a presiding officer in a booth in Pernem constituency, that he had not received the ballot. The returning officer of Mandrem, where he was to cast his vote, initially said his name was not forwarded by NIC, but on verification, it was found that   was not at all at fault, sources said.
 
 On Saturday, three personnel were rushed by the election authorities to the president officer with the ballot paper. Some voters suspect that there may be others who have been issued ballot papers after February 4.
 
 A gazetted officer/ magistrate will be posted at the offices to certify the identity of those to whom postal ballots have been issued to and authenticate their declarations, an official said. 
 
 The camp will take place from 9.30am and 5.30pm, where candidates or their agents have been given the liberty to witness the entire process.
 
 A general sms has been sent to all officials on polling duty, who got postal ballots, to come out in large numbers and cast their ballots at the special facilitation camp. 
 
 There will be no training on how to cast postal ballot, but only facilitation, the official clarified.
 
 Offices of all returning officers have one sealed box to receive postal ballots. There is no tracking of who has cast a postal ballot as no such list is maintained and nor it is possible to maintain such a list, election commission officials said. 
 
 Postal ballots will be received upto beginning of counting at 8am on March 11. Those that arrive later will not be considered for counting, it was stated.
 
 
