THENI: The   in Theni district has found a solution to its   by going the green way and is using reeds to recycle its sewage and reuse it.

 There are a total of 18 wards in Andipatti town panchayat with a population of about 30,000 people. The local body distributes 21 lakh litres of potable water to its people of which 15,000 litres is discharged as sewage. The local body was successful in implementing solid waste management and it constructed its own resource recovery park, commonly known as R R Park, where it segregates degradable and non-degradable waste. Using the degradable waste to produce manure and vermicompost the local body manufactures five metric tonnes per month.
 
 Andipatti town panchayat sanitary inspector A Muruganantham said that they have decided to go in for a recycling plant when the water table in their town panchayat dropped to below 400ft.
 
 The town panchayat constructed a recycling pit at the end main drain and decided to do the   on a trial and error basis. “The pit was layered with two metres each of gravel, half inch blue metal, ¾ inch blue metal, charcoal, river sand, pebbles, red soil on which reeds were planted on. “Each layer acts as a natural filter removing the waste in different stages and roots of the plants, namely canna release oxygen into the soil and this oxygen is used by the soil bacteria to break down the organic compounds in the grey water (all households discharge except toilet flushing water) and the water discharge after that is much clearer than the grey water that is sent for treatment.
 
 Muruganantham said they were treating 15,000 litres of sewage through this natural system everyday and the discharged clearer water is used for plants around the compost R R Park, which has been made mandatory.
 
 “Our project cost us about Rs 1.40 lakh because we also had to construct the drain, but houses can construct a similar pit for as less as Rs 10,000, and this water can be sent into the rainwater systems which could enhance the ground water level,” he added.
 
