A number of studies have said that   can have a positive impact on your life if done correctly and sincerely. A number of studies have said that meditation can have a positive impact on your life if done correctly and sincerely. Apart from helping you think more clearly and calmly, here are some of the   of meditating regularly...

  A calm mind means better focus, heightened concentration and better perception. All these help you communicate better and thereby, improve your relationships. 
 
 Meditation is said to bring out your creative instincts and help you perform better at tasks because it has the ability to reinvigorate the mind. 
 
  The sound of your own breath can be strangely calming and makes you more aware about yourself. This mindfulness also makes your brain sharper and increases your observation skills. 
 
 We all go through that phase where the mind and body feel fatigued. Just 10 to 15 minutes of meditation can help refresh your mind and make you feel less lethargic. The best part is that meditation can be done anywhere, at any time of the day. 
 
 Thanks to the rollercoaster of emotions that we go through almost on a daily basis, it gets easy to harbour grudges and feel pessimistic. However, that drains you out more than you realise. Meditation teaches you how to let go of things that you cannot control and to accept them without feeling discouraged. 
 
  Meditation teaches you to appreciate and be grateful for even the small things in life. When you apply this in all aspects of your life, you realise you become happier and your thoughts take a more positive turn.
 
 Some of the most popular types of meditation include   (mindfulness) and  , which can be done anywhere... 
 
 
 Meditation that works towards improving your concentration includes paying attention on a specific thing for the whole time with the simple goal of having absolute focus. In Vipassana, the idea is to engage your mind on just one item without getting distracted. You can focus on inanimate objects (wall clock, showpieces, etc) or even your own breath. It is inevitable that your mind will wander off but you simply need to bring it back to the object till you master the technique. 
 
 
 This doesn’t include focusing on any one particular object. Here, you allow your attention to flow willingly without any judgement. To put it simply, you are only observing all the thoughts and memories that come to mind while you meditate. Being mindful enables you to observe these thoughts from a third-person perspective rather than being attached to them. The idea is to notice the sensations and simply observe them instead of evaluating them.
 
 
 This is also known as effortless meditation simply because it requires no mental concentration. It involves emptiness and calmness, with the basic idea of identifying your essence by eliminating all thought. The idea is to make your mind a blank slate, silence it (as much as possible) and become aware of deep states of 
 consciousness. 
 
