Despite the headwinds faced by the sector, banking continues to remain the hot favourite of   (MFs). The interest is being driven by the strong showing by  , which are among the top performers on the bourses, so far in 2017.

 Just three banking scrips — State Bank of India (SBI), ICICI Bank and Kotak Mahindra Bank — accounted for over $1 billion (Rs 6721.6 crore) of share buys by fund houses in June. Interestingly, the ICICI Bank and Kotak Mahindra scrips hit their 52-week highs on July 18 and 20 respectively.
 
 Equity funds’ purchase in SBI alone stood at around $510 million, the highest in an individual scrip, during June. Federal Bank was the most bought mid-cap stock in value terms by fund houses during the month. Equity funds added Federal Bank shares to the tune of Rs 947 crore in June. 
 
 “We are seeing incrementally lower slippage in asset quality (of banks),” said Gopal Agrawal, chief investment officer, equities, Tata MF. “Lower inflation and interest rates are also a positive for the profitability of banks,” he said.
 
 “Retail focused banks are logging good growth,” said A Balasubramanian, MD and CEO, Birla Sun Life MF. Much needed reforms such as the bankruptcy code would help the banking sector, he said. SBI’s QIP (qualified institutional placement) issue of Rs 10,000 crore in June attracted huge interest from MFs contributing to the jump in exposure to the stock.
 
 HDFC Bank, however, continues to remain the top pick of equity MFs. Fund houses held HDFC Bank shares to the tune of Rs 36,772 crore or 5.5% of their total holdings at the end of June, data compiled by Morningstar India, an investment research firm showed.
 
 All the top-3 holdings of fund houses were banks. While ICICI Bank was the second most owned stock in value terms, SBI came third. In all, the value of shares held by fund houses in just four banks—HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, SBI and Kotak Mahindra Bank—stood at nearly Rs 1 lakh crore. These banks accounted for about 14.9% of equity MFs overall holdings in shares.
 
 The deployment of funds by equity MFs into banking stocks surged to a record Rs 1,43,705 crore or 21.52% of their AUM (assets under management), data with markets regulator SEBI showed. Equity funds that invest in banking stocks have surged 34.1% so far in 2017, the best performance among widely traded assets.
 
 The ‘BSE Bankex’ has emerged as the second best performing index in 2017 gaining by nearly 32%, which is only marginally lower than the ‘BSE-Small Cap’ index that topped the charts.
 
 
