Nagpur: The three-member   justice board (JJB) on Wednesday released the juvenile in conflict in law, now aged 20 years, on probation of good conduct for a period of two years after being holding him guilty of kidnapping for ransom and criminal conspiracy in   case.

 Eight-year-old Yug was kidnapped from a place near his residence at Chhapru Nagar Chowk before being murdered and his body had been buried under stones in a nullah on Gomti-Gunthala road on September 1, 2014. The two main accused Rajesh Dhaware and his friend Arvind Singh were awarded double death by the session’s court. Their case is now pending before Supreme Court after the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court upheld the session’s court verdict. 
 
 The JJB, issuing it’s ‘Dispositional order’ as per the Section 15 of the Juvenile Justice (care and protection of children) Act, 2000, convicted the juvenile under sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) 363 for kidnapping, 364 (A), demanding ransom and 120 (B) criminal conspiracy. 
 
 The board, comprising principal magistrate NN Bedarkar, Surekha Borkute and KT Mele as members, has placed the juvenile under the ‘care’ of the district child protection officer (DCPO) Mushtak Pathan who has been urged to furnish a bond of good behaviour and well-being of the minor for the period of two years.
 
 The juvenile had earlier stayed at the children’s observation home at Patankar Chowk for seven months before getting bail in April 2015 after he was rounded up on September 18, 2014. During his stay at the home the juvenile had passed SSC with 58% but later failed in HSC while staying with family. 
 
 The prosecution had clamoured for another eight months of stay for the juvenile in the observation home but the board refused it. The board had observed that the Act stressed upon the ‘reformation and rehabilitation of the child’ rather than punishing him. 
 
 The juvenile has also been directed to join a group involved in social work and perform community service for minimum four hours twice a month. He has been also asked to participate in individual counselling with mental health experts regularly as being prescribed. 
 
 Pathan has been asked by the board to arrange for the counselling and community service of the juvenile. The JJB has also asked Pathan to submit an ‘Individual care plan’ for the juvenile. Pathan, who has been earmarked as ‘fit person’, has also been asked to execute an undertaking without surety in FORM V as per the Juvenile Justice (care and protection of children) rules 2007. 
 
 The juvenile has been also asked to seek permission before leaving the district jurisdiction of the board for the entire period of probation. He has also been asked to refrain from indulging in any kind of addictions or consumptions of liquor or such intoxicants.
 
 Apart from the DCPO, the juvenile has also been placed under the surveillance of the probationer officer (PO) who has to present every month performance report before the board. The board has also said in it’s order that any violations of the order would mean that he may be sent for detention to ‘after care home or place of safety’ for two years. 
 
 In a relief, the board has included the provision for non-disqualification of the juvenile following his conviction which would enable him to be eligible for government placements and such facilities. 
 
 Earlier, the juvenile’s counsel pleaded for a lenient view on the role of his client on the ground that he was not involved in the crime and also that he was the sole earning member of the family after father’s accident. “We will appeal before the sessions court now to set aside the juvenile’s conviction,” he said.
 
 The juvenile’s mother too broke down pleading leniency before the board stating that she and her family would be shattered. 
 
 Advocate Rajendra Daga, representing Chandak family, said they are contemplating either an appeal against the order in sessions court or a review before the High court. “We are now waiting for the order copy,” he said.
 
 
