PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The   travelling from the   in weekends can heave a sigh of relief with the introduction of a   bus service. 

 The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) will begin the special state transport (ST) bus service from Friday. Dnyaneshwar Ranaware, the divisional traffic officer of the Pune division of the MSRTC, told TOI, “Professionals from various parts of the state work in   IT park. IT professionals and even other citizens had demanded a bus service from Hinjewadi to Baramati. We decided to start the service with the objective to get more customers and also to provide good public transport to those working in Hinjawadi.” 
 
 Giving details of the bus route, he said, “The bus will start from Phase III of the IT park and ply via Wakad, Katraj, Swargate and then to Baramati. As the bus will not fill up in Hinjewadi itself during the initial stages, it will stop en route and go to Swargate depot to pick up passengers. If we get a good response and the buses fill up at Hinjewadi itself, we can run this bus via Chandani Chowk, Katraj, Kondhwa, Jejuri and then to Baramati.”
 
 SK Dhumal, the manager of the MSRTC depot at Baramati, said, “The first bus from Phase III in Hinjawadi IT park will leave for Baramati at 5pm on Friday. The IT professionals returning from Baramati after spending their weekend can take the bus departing at 6am from the Baramati ST depot. There will be 44 seats in the bus. Initially, only one bus will ply on this route. But if there is good response, we can increase the number of buses to meet the demand.”
 
 Akshay Morche, the group admin of the WhatsApp group of Hinjewadi Baramati Bus, said, “There was a demand for this new bus service. So, we started this new WhatsApp group to get in contact with other IT professionals from Baramati working in Hinjewadi. As many as 50 members joined the group a few days ago. We asked them to share our WhatsApp group number with their school and college friends and now, we have 175 members who may be interested in using the service.”
 
 He added, “We are hopeful that in next two to three months we will get good response and the bus will not have to ply via Swargate ST depot. That will reduce the travel time.”
 
