When Mahatma Gandhi launched the non-cooperation movement and thousands flung foreign goods into public bonfires, no one thought of boycotting imported horses. This, despite the fact that the   would eventually lead to the near-annihilation of indigenous breeds such as the  . 

 This elegant Rajasthani horse, celebrated for its inward-turning ear tips, wide-set eyes and alert demeanor, had almost disappeared by the 1992 livestock census, which recorded that only 3,000 out of the state's 24,000 horses were true Marwaris. The rest were a mix of various indigenous breeds like Kathiawaris and Sindhis. The census forced breeders, horse associations and even Rajasthani nobility to take stock of the situation and look for solutions.
 
 Most recently, Maharashtra's Indigenous Horse Owners Association held a Marwari show to promote the breed in Pune's Japalouppe Equestrian Centre. Over the course of two days in March, fillies, colts, mares and stallions paraded around a ring while judges evaluated their features looking for typical Marwari traits. One judge listed out the ones that he looks for - breed experts have differing opinions - big eyes, a Roman nose, a long, graceful neck, a shallow dip in the back and straight legs. But, he conceded, it's the dainty ears often curling into a heart shape that are the most exquisite feature. 
 
 "We wanted to set a new standard of judging and reach a consensus on the physical traits," explains Khushru Patel, a member of the Maharashtra Association, adding that the formula for picking a winner in each category-five judges rate the horses and the lowest and highest scores are discarded-was devised keeping this goal in mind. "We are doing this to identify the best stallions in terms of looks and fitness to create a classification, which can then be used by breeders when they want to cover their mares." 
 
 For instance, the bay colour colt that won in the milk-teeth category has purebred Marwari parents and grandparents, giving him a definite edge. "He has class," said his owner Jugnu Patel. "One can immediately tell he is from a good family."
 
 The Maharashtra Association isn't the first to take up the cause of the Marwaris. Three years after the '92 census, British horsewoman Francesca Kelly and Kanwar Raghuvendra Singh of Dundlod founded a group called Marwari Bloodlines with the goal of "promoting and preserving" the breed globally. And in 1998, under the patronage of Jodhpur's Maharaja Gajsingh II, the All India Marwari Horse Society was formed. Its objectives range from promoting the equestrian potential of the breed through horse shows and endurance events to helping the Indian government maintain a register of Marwari horses. 
 
 Revived interest in the breed has resulted in a spike in price. "Six months ago, a Marwari horse was sold for Rs 1 crore ," says Punjabi breeder Sukhjinder Singh Sidhu, who was in Pune to judge the Maharashtra Association's  . He adds that such a price would have been unthinkable before 2000, when state governments began hosting horse shows to promote the breed. "Today, the average rate is Rs 1-5 lakh but if the shows weren't there," he says, "these horses would be worth just Rs 70,000-80,000." Sidhu has also seen an 80% jump in demand for purebred Marwaris and Nukras (all-white horses) in the last ten years. 
 
 Currently, between 1,500-2,000 horses have been registered with the Marwari Horse Stud Book Registration Society of India. However, breeders agree this doesn't reflect the total number as many purebreds are still to be registered. Their estimates range from 70,000 to a few lakhs. In the early 2000s, exports of Marwari horses were stopped to safeguard the most valuable ones. It's a subject, which divides the community with breeders arguing they would never part with their best stock. 
 
 While it's difficult to pinpoint when the breed originated, experts like Keshav Joshi, a member of the Maharashtra Association, agree it's probably a cross between the Turkmenistani Akhal-Teke or an Arabian steed and an Indian pony-an aftermath of an Arab or Mongol invasion. It hails from the Mallani region in Barmer district and Rajasthani folktales are peppered with references to famous Marwaris like Maharana Pratap's 'Chetak' and Amar Singh Rathore's 'Udal', who leapt over the walls of Agra fort. 
 
 After independence, the end of the 'jagirdari' system led to fewer people being able to afford the breed's upkeep. Their demise, however, began much before when the British replaced them with thoroughbreds in the cavalry. Seventy years later, they've realized their folly. Today, the All India Marwari Horse Society's patron is Prince Charles' wife, Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall.
 
 
