NAGPUR: The country's most dependable forward will soon be seen showing off his basketball skills in Australia. Two years after   became the first Indian to be drafted into the star-studded NBA league in the US, Indian captain   has made it into the Australian league.

 On Friday, the 25-year-old became the first Indian to be drafted into the   (NBL) of Australia when he was picked by defending champions  . "NBL is the biggest basketball league after the NBA league in America. To play in one of the strongest leagues alongside some of world's finest players was always my dream and today's confirmation call made me really happy," he told TOI after signing the deal.
 
 CEO of Adelaide 36ers Guy Hedderwick said, "It is great to have signed the first Indian player to NBL and we're looking forward to connecting with the Indian community during Vishesh's basketball journey. He is an exciting talent from India, renowned for his court presence and intuitive feel for the game."
 
 Since his senior international debut in 2009, the 6-foot-4 has been a cornerstone of the Indian men's national basketball team, averaging 17.4 points and 4.5 assists per game.
 
 As an eight year old in 2000, Bhriguvanshi started his basketball journey in Varanasi under Trideep Rai. He idolizes LeBron James and likes to play at all the positions like his hero.
 
 Bhriguvanshi's Australian journey began with NBL draft combine at Melbourne in March, when he along with Amritpal, Amjyot and Yadwinder Singh were invited for the tryouts. Bhriguvanshi was a bit nervous initially but felt it was his first big step that would take him closer to the NBA.
 
 Bhriguvanshi was introduced to Adelaide 36ers by the   for 2017-18 season. On his tryout experience, Bhriguvanshi said, "In a shooting drill I gave the best result among 90 others and the experienced coaches there gave me lot of confidence. In the final session, I was playing at my best."
 
 Managing Director of the Dream Basketball Academy, Raheim Brown, said, "We look forward to this new relationship not only with   but with whole of India. He will represent our academy and Adelaide 36ers proudly for his country and himself." Brown said his academy would expose Bhriguvanshi to the highest level of play and will work with him to explore opportunities in the NBA.
 
 Bhriguvanshi added, "I feel proud to represent my country and will continue to do so as playing for India is my priority. But like every player, I too dreamed of playing in a reputed league someday. Playing in a league with world's best will keep me motivated. I take NBL as an alternative pathway to achieve my dream of playing in the NBA."
 
 
