KOLKATA: A construction work on the   that connects with   has started in full swing from Sunday.

 Cops have shut a 300 metre stretch of Circus Avenue, which leads to AJC Bose Road from  . The stretch will remain shut for the next 17 weeks.
 
 The stretch between   and AJC Bose Road crossing was closed to traffic for the shifting of  , which will follow construction of piers to hold up the proposed ramp.
 
 As a result, cops have banned movement of buses and goods vehicles on Circus Avenue and the arterial Nasiruddin Road till August 31, which is the first phase.
 
 "Initially we have allowed them time till August 31 to finish the work so that we have enough time to reopen the road before the Pujas. If the construction is incomplete, we will again close the road after Durga Puja," said V Solomon Nessakumar, deputy commissioner (traffic), Kolkata Police.
 
 As per the diversion plan, buses and goods vehicles coming from Congress Exhibition Road will have to take a right turn from Nasiruddin Road-Syed Amir Ali Avenue crossing to take Shakespeare Sarani or Park Street to reach AJC Bose Road and then head west.
 
 Smaller vehicles coming from Congress Exhibition road can take the Nasiruddin Road but will have to climb the AJC Bose Road flyover or head straight towards Circus Row.Beyond this stretch, both flanks of the road would remain open, the officer said.
 
 As per the new diversion plan, movement of Trams along Park Street, 7 Point Crossing and Amir Ali Avenue will be suspended or restricted between 8am to 10pm.
 
 Cops however suspect that the new plan may hit traffic flow in a large area surroun ding the Park Circus seven-point crossing.
 
 “The crossing receives most numbers of vehicles from the Maa flyover and Syed Amir Ali Avenue. With Nasiruddin Road barring buses and goods vehicles and a portion of Circus Avenue closed, traffic movement around the area is likely to slow down,“ said a traffic sergeant on Sunday.
 
 The sergeant also added that this is the best time to try this diversion as all major schools in the area are now closed.
 
 The under-construction ramp will link the AJC Bose Road flyover with Maa flyover so that vehicles coming from EM Bypass are able to reach the Race course-Maidan area without taking the roads below.
 
 Since piling work on the Congress Exhibition Road and Nasiruddin Road was completed last year, work was limited to building the pile caps, which are concrete mats that cover the foundation.
 
 But the rest of the project was delayed due to the crash of the under construction Vivekananda Road flyover.
 
 The 1.1km ramp -through which vehicles will move from Maa flyover to AJC Bose Road flyovers --will be held by 25 pillars on Congress Exhibition Road, Nasiruddin Road and Circus Avenue.
 
 The project's deadline has been set to May 2018.
 
