Nagpur: Bitter infighting and factionalism in the Congress came to fore on Friday in Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s general body meeting after mayor Nanda Jichkar called the proposal to declare Congress’s   as a co-opted member in the 156-member House. 

 After leader of opposition Tanaji Wanve proposed the name, the administration tabled the proposal in the House naming Kishore Jichkar as their co-opted candidate. Mayor Nanda Jichkar on Friday cleared the administration’s proposal by announcing Congress candidate as the co-opted member. 
 
 As per state government’s norms, the NMC can nominate five co-opted corporators directly to the civic body divided among political parties depending on the ratio of their elected members.
 
 Accordingly, the BJP had already nominated its co-opted corporators, but infighting in the Congress delayed the party’s nomination process to select one member to the civic body. 
 
 Raising objection to the nomination of Kishore Jichkar, Congress corporator Ramesh Mahakalkar said that he will challenge the high court’s dismissal to stay the election process in the Supreme Court. He also claimed that Jichkar’s nomination should not be considered valid as the name was not proposed in the letter head of the Indian Congress Party. He also urged the mayor to stay the proposal for some time. 
 
 Citing it as an internal matter of the Congress, senior party corporator Praful Gudadhe urged the mayor not to allow discussion on this. Another senior Congress corporator Sandip Sahare too demanded stay on the nomination procedure as Wanve did not take all Congress corporators into confidence while announcing Jichkar as the party candidate. 
 
 The Congress’ strength in NMC has now gone up to 30. It has 29 elected corporators in the House of 151 excluding five co-opted members. A co-opted corporator has no voting rights on any civic proposal but can take part in debates.
 
 Former corporator leader of opposition and ex-corporator Vikas Thakre tried his best to stage a comeback despite losing the civic polls earlier this year. But due to factionalism in the Congress, the leader of opposition nominated Jichkar. 
 
 Wanve too urged the mayor to announce Jichkar as Congress co-opted member. Ruling party leader Sandip Joshi too pointed out to the House that as the Bombay High Court has dismissed the petition so no need to delay it further. 
 
 
