MUMBAI:   in self-financing courses, including BMM, BMS, BSc-IT and BAF, may soon lose their affiliation.

  last week has city college principals confused and worried. The circular makes it mandatory for teachers in self-financing courses to have a master's degree and they must clear the National Eligibility Test (NET) or State's Eligibility Test (SET) in a relevant subject as per latest UGC norms. Most of the courses are taught by professionals, who may have a master's degree but are not NETSET qualified, say principals. In fact, for 10,000 students there are only two qualified teachers across colleges in BSc-IT.
 
 The university has also told colleges to stick to UGC-prescribed pay scales for approved teachers. A qualified assistant professor has to get a pay of Rs 60,077, including allowances, while a professor should be paid Rs 1.25 lakh, similar to that of teachers in traditional courses.The minimum an `unqualified' teacher from self-financing courses in Mumbai gets is Rs 8,00020,000. Those qualified may or may not be getting pay scales prescribed by the university at present. All these will be accounted for in the colleges' academic audit and even in the NAAC report, and will be needed for approval of new self-financing courses.
 
  said qualified teachers are difficult to find for professional programmes. If they manage to get them, fees charged by colleges cannot sustain salaries prescribed by UGC, added the principal. The university has not allowed a fee hike for almost a decade, said the principal. Madhu Nair, principal,  , said it is difficult to find eligible teachers in programmes like BSc-IT. “There are also anomalies in the circular. There is no provision for house rent allowance and teachers are not entitled to medical allowance in the Sixth Pay Commission, but are provisioned for in the circular. Seventh Pay Commission is yet to be implemented in the state,“ said Nair. “A CA is qualified to teach accountancy, but these professionals mostly do not have NETSET qualifications,“ said Hemlata Bagla, in-charge principal, KC College.
 
