BHIIWANDI: The   unit of Thane police probing   racket have arrested two more accused including   ex-private employee of telephone service providers.

 The arrested two accused includes mastermind of gang  , 27 and Sameer Alwari, 35.
 
 The main mastermind is only 10th pass and have worked as sales executive with two telephone service providers.
 
 The police has also found racket's presence in Mumbai area as they arrested Sameer from Govandi area from whom team have seized 64 SIM cards, two sim box and Reuters.
 
 The crime branch arrested Tandon from Dombivli where he resides and arrested Sameer from Govandi where he was running telephone exchange. The team have also recovered 98 SIM cards, laptop and mobile phone from Tandon. Earlier the crime branch had arrested four accused --Sufiyan Ansari (30), Iqbal Suleman (45),Mohammad Shaikh , Yunus Azmi 31. They allegedly routed the international incoming on local numbers without showing the international number. The racket has put the exchequer to the losses of around Rs 30 crores and which is likely to rise after thorough interrogation.
 
 The police said probe shows that Tondon who earlier worked in to sales department of SIM cards gave idea of running illegal telephone   as arrested most of accused are hardly studied up to fifth standard.
 
 He also helped accused to get all equipments including SIM card. Investigators suspect that Tondon using fake documents have obtained all SIM cards and to probe same they have obtained details from service provider companies.
 
 Prakash Patil, an Investigator from Bhiwandi crime unit said, "It is found Tondon would directly would used to get money of each phone calls from the Middle East countries viz UAE, Dubai Etc and after deducting his share, he would used to distribute money to accused running illegal telephone exchange". Preliminary probe revealed that for one minute of incoming call, the accused used to get 17 paise per minute and the calculation is enormous as the exchange was operational since a year. 
 
