It wasn’t until I ‘died’ that I understood that life is not a zero-sum game. I had been suffering from what should have been the final stages of  , when my organs shut down and I went into a coma. I was at death’s door, and the doctors told my family that I wasn’t coming back. However, while in the coma, I experienced what I would call an “awakening” – also called a “near-death experience”. During this state, I realised that I had my priorities wrong and had spent a lifetime trying to be something I’m not. 

 I used to believe I wasn’t good enough, and I had to be more... do more, work harder, and be better, in order to be worthy or deserving any rewards. Many of us buy into the fear that we are not good enough the way we are and we need to do whatever it takes to get ahead of everyone else. So we get on this treadmill, constantly trying to get ahead of the person in front of us... except that the person in front of us is doing exactly the same thing, trying to get ahead of the person in front of them.
 
 Ironically, many of us are like that even in our  , believing that   needs to be pursued, and we need to work at it harder, meditate longer, or read more – to be more spiritual than the next person.
  
 Death made me re-evaluate what is actually important in life. When we don’t value the gift of life, our priorities are very different. But once we have a glimpse of death, and a deep understanding of our mortality, we realise: Wow! All these things that I thought mattered actually have no significance on the other side. It rearranges all our priorities in life – how we live, how we deal with our emotions... everything.
 
 Having already faced death, I now know that spending a lifetime of always playing it safe, for example, by choosing the safest career, by pleasing people, worrying about what everyone else thinks of me, meeting everyone else’s expectations except my own, being what everyone else wanted me to be, etc. felt like a totally wasted life. I feel so blessed to have been given a second chance, because most people don’t get to come back when they learn that lesson. This time, I plan to pursue my dreams, love more, laugh more, not take life so seriously, and live fearlessly.
  
 Our life is our prayer. It’s our gift to the world. We owe it to ourselves and everyone around us to be happy and spread that joy around.
 
 
