At first glance,   looks like any other 22-year-old Delhi girl, but give her a TT paddle and she shows why she is the Number 1 Indian table tennis player right now. The Naraina resident, who dropped out from DU’s JMC to focus on her game, represented India at the Rio Olympics last year, and reached the quarter-finals at the World Championships earlier this year. In a game dominated by the Chinese and the Europeans, Manika is one of the rare Indian faces to leave a mark. In a chat with DT, Manika tells us about her Olympic medal aspirations, why she doesn’t regret missing out on DU campus life, and how she responds to people who ‘advice’ her to leave the sport and go for modelling.

 2017 has been a mixed year for Manika. While she reached the quarter-final in women’s doubles at the World Championships, her singles ranking has slipped from the mid-80s to outside the top 100. But the No. 1 Indian female player hopes to bounce back. “I’m optimistic about my performance. I’m in good form, so the results will show soon,” she tells us. Although, the 22-year-old hopes to be an Olympic medallist some day, she does not want to emphasise too much on it right now. She says, “In the end, I can only try, and for sure, I will try my best to win a medal at the 2024 Olympics, but one can never be sure about such things. Right now, my target is the   next year. I reached the semifinals last time and I’m hopeful that I can do better.”
 
  
  
 
 
 Table tennis has always governed her life choices, she says. As a kid, she switched schools for better training opportunities, and later opted to drop out of one of Delhi’s most prestigious colleges to focus on the game. She tells us, “I moved to Hansraj Model School because my coach was there, and the school was supportive of me missing classes for my training. Later, I got through  , but I hardly ever attended college. I must have gone just once a month, only to sit for exams, because I was always travelling and training. I even missed the freshers’ party and the college fests. But honestly, I don’t mind missing out on these things, because I representing India internationally, instead. That was more important.” Eventually, Manika dropped out of JMC and is currently pursuing BA (Prog) from DU’s School of Open Learning. “I couldn’t attend classes or do justice to college. So, I thought correspondence was the best option,” she says.
 
  
  Coming home usually means rest, says Manika (BCCL/Ranjit Kumar)
 
 During her school and college days, the west Delhi girl did modelling as well, something she later gave up to concentrate on table-tennis. “I used to get modelling offers and I did that too. But I felt that I needed to focus on the game more, so I left modelling. Of course, athletes go for endorsements these days, so in the future, I would want to resume that. It was fun.”
 
  
 In fact, Manika says that some of her ‘well-wishers’ often tell her to quit the game and go for modelling full time. “People say you have the right height and appearance for it. Game chhoro and go for it. But nobody can question my choices as long as I’m doing well. So I just keep performing and winning to keep those advices at bay.”
 
  
  
 
 
 Manika is currently in Delhi to participate in the new table tennis franchise-based league called  . Being a local, she is doubling up as a tour guide for several of her foreign teammates as well. “Since I am a local, the foreign players often ask me where to go and what to do for fun. I took my teammates out for coffee the other day, and they have been asking about the street markets here. I plan to take them to Sarojini Nagar or Janpath soon,” says Manika.
 
 A visit home usually means total rest for the player. “If I’m in Delhi, I hardly go out. I stay at home, eat homemade khaana, call all my friends and ask them to come over. Occasionally, I might go shopping, but my being in Delhi means just relaxing at home,” she says. This time, however, things are different because she is participating in the league. Manika says that while her family is supportive despite her not getting to spend time at home, her friends get upset at times. She tells us, “I get to meet my closest friends only once a year. They are supportive and they know that I have a tiring schedule, but even then, they get angry sometimes when I go too long without meeting them. Even now, they have been texting me saying, ‘You’re in Delhi, come meet us.’ But I simply don’t have the time with the matches and training.”
 
 
