NAGPUR: The line transect method, introduced a decade ago by the   (NTCA) to estimate herbivore population, will be replicated for knowing bird count under   (CBMP), which is a  .

 “Though bird watching has undergone a sea change, we are still away from scientific monitoring of birds because of which there is no authentic data. Line transect method is practical and efficient,” said Sanjay Karkare, assistant director of BNHS.
 
 On Sunday, over 35 bird watchers including some engineers were sensitized at   about the new methodology by   (BNHS), implementing the CBMP with the coordination by city-based NGO Wild-CER.
 
 District coordinator of CBMP Dr Bahar Baviskar of Wild-CER said 754 grids have been identified in and around Nagpur. Each grid of 2sqkm has been plotted on the map. Participants will be sent the grid they wish to conduct a survey.
 
 Birders will have to walk on the predetermined route at a fixed pace to record the birds on or on left or right side of the line. Once a survey is commenced, birders have been told not to record birds left behind or beyond the transect line. An excel sheet will be given in which they will have to fill the details and either upload on the defined website or be handed over to the coordinator.
 
 “Initially surveys on 8 grids will begin in first week of February,” Dr Baviskar said. The CBMP will be conducted thrice a year and will cover three seasons — winter, summer and monsoon, he added. 
 
 Nagpur is among the 10 districts in the state where CBMP has been launched with line transect methodology. Survey work on 64 grids is going on in Sangli, Kolhapur, Pune, Mumbai, Jalgaon, Amravati, Bhandara, Wardha and Akola.
 
 “In last two years, a detailed study on 28 grids in all three seasons revealed increase in number of bulbuls, laughing doves and sparrows,” said bird expert & assistant researcher with BNHS Nandkishore Dudhe.
 
 “The basic idea is to study long-term changes in population levels for a wide range of birds across habitats throughout India and promote bird conservation through involvement of a large number volunteers in survey work,” Dudhe said.
 
 Dudhe explained common birds are in trouble due to urbanization and industrialization. “Take for example house sparrows, which are declining in cities,” he said. The CBMP will help know bird species’ distribution, diversity and whether a particular species has increased or decreased and factors responsible for that.
 
 Bird expert Jayant Wadatkar, who is successfully implementing the methodology in Amravati, said, “In world there are 9,000 bird species, of which 1,300 are in India and 565 in Maharashtra. Many species are entering into vulnerable and rare category and hence CBMP was must to know trends.” 
 
