KOLKATA: In her soon-to-be published novel `Peculiar Ground',   juxtaposed the 17th century wall around Wychwood, a large country manor with ornamental lakes and majestic avenues, with the construction of the   -built three centuries later and subsequently torn down less than three decades later. Had she been writing the novel now,  's wall along the country's border with   may well have figured in the narrative.

 The writer is currently in Kolkata along with fellow writers Tiffany Atkinson and Sarah Bower as part of the Writers' Centre Norwich project Writing Places. It is a creative writing and literary translation-led project that aims to explore the connections between writing and place in Kolkata and Norwich. HugesHallett said, the reason why the wall was constructed in Wychwood is similar to the arguments put forth by Trump to build the wall along the southern border.
 
 “Just like the 17th century wall in my book, the US President wants his wall to keep `unwanted' elements out. It is an attempt to exclude anything that could pose a threat,“ Huges-Hallett said during a conversation with translator Arunava Sinha on cities and how they inspire writers.
 
 In her previous work `The Pike: Gabriele D'Annunzio, Poet, Seducer and Preacher', Hughes-Hallett had dealt with a right-wing warmonger, a trait that many across the world have come to associate with Trump. The wall syndrome finds reflection in Kolkata as well. Sinha pointed to the selfcontained, high-rise condos that are walled to ensure that life within is like an oasis amidst the urban chaos. Often, self-aggrandizement leads to people setting up barriers and living an insular life.
 
 On cities influencing writers, the te am from Norwich remarked, writers' built cities out of words that were very different from the brick and mortar cities that one encountered in everyday life. “For millions of readers who have not been to London or Dublin, they conjure up a world in their minds from reading Charles Dickens and James Joyce. But the real cities are often very different because the writer often makes things up,“ remarked Bower.
 
 Poet Atkinson finds it hard to put a finger on what aspects of a city will ultimately be the source of inspiration for her writings. Hence, she assimilates images and jots down thoughts and perceptions as she sees them. “It can be decaying buildings or the way sunlight streams through the foliage, or something more ephemeral. Unlike the poets of nature and city , modern poets like me who grew up in the suburbs don't seek anything essential or fixed in a place,“ she said.
 
