MUMBAI: An unidentified two-year-old boy was rescued from his alleged kidnapper on Tuesday night, a woman who was caught selling him for money outside  .

 The accused gave her name as Shagina Qureshi (40). While she claimed to be living on the streets of Vasai, police suspect her to be a Bangladeshi national associated with an interstate child trafficking gang.
 
 The   got a tip off from social worker   that a woman was seen with a child that did not look like her own. Pawar told police that the child, aged two to three years, was often seen crying despite being with Qureshi. The woman and child were often spotted near the busy Tungareshwar Sweet Shop, Station Road, Vasai (West). Pawar recollected the woman was with the child for at least a month and was looking for buyers to sell the baby.
 
 A team of six policemen was then formed and a decoy lady customer was arranged.She was asked to approach Qureshi who quoted Rs 1 lakh for giving away the boy . On Tuesday around 11pm, as decided the decoy customer approa ched Qureshi near the skywalk and handed over the cash bundle.
 
 The police had kept two Rs 2,000 notes between fake notes.
 
 Cops caught Qureshi as she took the cash and handed over the boy to the decoy . She gave her name as Shagina but had nothing to prove her identity .
 
 Police said so far she hasn't revealed any information about the boy and suspect she may have kidnapped the child and arrived in Vasai to sell him.Photographs of the toddler have been circulated across police stations in the state and outside. Missing complaints are also being examined for clues.
 
 The boy will be sent to a child care centre. Police said the boy may be aged between two to two-and-a-half years.
 
 Police are examining the possibility of a child trafficking racket. Qureshi has been charged with sections 363 (kidnapping) and 372(selling minor for purpose of prostitution) of the IPC.
 
 Qureshi claimed the boy's mother is a dancer in a Mira Road bar and gave away the baby to her about a month ago.Cops said they still have to confirm her claims. Qureshi was staying with the baby on the railway bridge at Vasai and used him to beg. Police are examining CCTV footage of the bridge for details and said it could not be ascertained if Qureshi has kidnapped other children too. She has been remanded to police custody till May 27.
 
