BENGALURU: With assembly elections around the corner, the three major political parties in Karnataka are jostling for space on social media to blow their trumpet and connect with voters.

 The  , which had a resounding success in the 2014 Parliamentary polls, appears to have taken the lead. The ruling   is picking up pace to counter the saffron party while the JD(S) seems to be lagging behind due to lacklustre social media presence as a political unit.
 
 The BJP is organizing a daylong conference for its party workers and leaders on August 6. Amit Malaviya, the national incharge for social media, will give tips on promoting the party’s image. The party has chosen 10 workers and leaders from each 224 assembly constituency for promoting its achievements. “We will bring about an uniform approach among our workers for popularizing the party. The workshop will give direction and hand out responsibilities to workers on how to post the party’s message on various social media platforms,” said party general secretary Arvind Limbavali.
 
 For the Congress, the social media presence is restricted to updates on government schemes and projects being posted by ministers Priyank Kharge, Krishna Byregowda and K J George. This apart, chief minister Siddaramaiah has official accounts. 
 
 Former MP and All India Congress Committee (AICC) social media incharge Ramya is learnt to have interviewed professional candidates for the post of a social media coordinator in the state. KPCC working president Dinesh Gundu Rao said the party has already hired a few professionals and dedicated party workers to handle the social media ‘politics’.
 
 “While we will be targeting the disinformation campaign of the BJP, our social media attacks will not be regressive or malicious. Te party is working towards generating publicity material and project the good governance of the Siddaramaiah regime,” he said. 
 
 The social media campaign of the JD(S) is primarily focussed on their leader H D Kumaraswamy, who is also their chief ministerial candidate. Party members say a team of 15 to 20 volunteers are working on organizing campaigns on behalf of Kumaraswamy.
 
 “While our social media initiative is highly individualistic, there is a lot decentralized party groups that are running online campaigns on our behalf but are not ready to merge under a single umbrella,” claimed a JD(S) member.
 
 
