INDORE: While Prime Minister   on Wednesday assured   that he would not allow   to cheat them on flats they purchased,   here in Indore not only felt cheated but were also humiliated by the flats that were given to them not by any private builder but by the civic body.

 In the posh colony of Vidhyachal, amid swanky houses of well to do families, a dilapidated, decade old building stands out. Forty eight families that were displaced from Ganeshganj have been shifted to this place.
 
 While conditions of the homes are pathetic, residents of the area alleged that their neighbours are not happy with the fact that they have been shifted to the locality.
 
 “They behave as if we are untouchables. They do not even want us to walk on the street. Some of them have said that they will build a wall in front of the building to cut us off from them,” said Poonam Kashalya Gupta, a resident.
 
 Residents alleged that even if they get adequate facilities at the place, other residents nearby would not let them live happily.
 
 “We have not come to this colony of our choice. We owned bigger houses in Ganeshganj than what they have here. First the officials treated us like waste and now the residents,” said Kamlabai, a 66-year-old lady whose previous three generations had lived in a multi-storey building in Ganeshganj. However, people of the locality refuted such claims.
 
 The new houses provided to those displaced lack basic facilities. Both at Vindyachal and Sukhdev Vihar, the decade-old buildings have developed cracks. In the name of electricity, a single bulb has been provided in each flat. Wiring and plaster work is still pending.
 
 Children who have to take exams cannot find a proper place to study. Moreover, most of their books could not be shifted to the new place.
 
 Tankers have been provided in the area but buildings lack water connections. The residents, mostly ladies, have to carry water in buckets.
 
 “The worst part is homes and toilets do not have doors. Some houses don’t even have toilets,” said Poonam Ghai.
 
 IMC officials claimed that all facilities would be provided soon. Vivesh Jain, zonal officer of IMC claimed that they had provided doors in many homes and basic facilities would be provided in all flats.
 
 “These are false claims. They are not even supervising the work. We’ve left all our work and have been standing here since morning to ensure laborers work properly,” said Santosh Chokdamde.
 
 
