GURUGRAM: Fed up with apathy of the authorities, residents of many societies across Gurgaon have taken up repair work of approach roads to their societies as a   (DIY) enterprise.

 Recently, a group of   in Sector 50 took up repairing the 3km stretch of the 24m-road that connects them with South City 2. “The road is arterial, used by the whole city. We’ve been asking the corporation to repair it for a while now. But they told us it belongs to the developer. After waiting for almost two years for it to be repaired, we decided to do it ourselves,” said  , a resident.
 
 The total cost involved, just for the patchwork, is around Rs 8 lakh. In a similar initiative just last week, residents of CHD Avenue 71 started getting the kuccha approach road to their society paved. This came after a school bus got stuck in the muck on its way to the condominium. “With heavy rains expected to start any time soon, we had to at least pave the kuccha road. We have been asking the authorities to do it for a while, but we could not take chances any more,” said Ravi Mathur, a resident of CHD Avenue 71.
 
 The road connects the residential society with Sohna road, and a one kilometre stretch, with 200m of pucca road and the rest kuccha but repaired, has cost the residents around Rs 4 lakh. The proximity of the monsoons has also caused a sense of urgency among residents to get the roads repaired, especially because they can’t trust Huda or MCG to do the work.
 
 After Gurujam in July last year, the city administration had assured residents that all roads would be repaired and/or built by December 31 that year. This was rescheduled to June 15. TOI had earlier reported that since then, road repair work has been delayed due to GST implementation and other factors. 
 
 Cases of residents building or repairing their own infrastructure are cropping up from across the city, because sector roads are the most neglected infrastructure in the city, in some cases by MCG and Huda, in others by builders. Last year, several residents from different blocks of South City 1 had also got their own approach road built.
 
 “We pooled in money to get the road build, because we had grown tired of not having a road. And the condition of the potholed abomination was getting worse, so after failing to get the builder or MCG to act, we got the road made ourselves. Later, we also replaced the street lights with LED lights,” said Ramesh Gulati, a lawyer living in Block A, South City 1.
 
 “We are in the process of building roads across the city, however, due to monsoon, work has been temporarily slowed down,” said an MCG official. 
 
