GURUGRAM: The excise department has received a representation from owners of pubs and restaurants in   and the developer of   mall that recent changes in their entry and exit points are approved one as these are routes mentioned in the original layout plans that got passed.

 “We have received a representation from the Cyber Hub association and the developer of Ambience mall, who said the changes made to their entries and exits are as per layout plans,” said a senior excise department official, requesting anonymity.
 
 He added that the concerned parties have been told to submit their approved layout plans for further clarity in the matter. “We have asked them to submit layout plans. If the changes are as per plan, we have no problem with them at all,” said the official.
 
 However, all such decisions will be made only after consultation with the department of town and country planning (DTCP).   officials said they will check the records and layout plans, and conduct a site inspection to ascertain the claims. “No changes without prior permission from the department will be considered valid. If any contrary claims are being made, we will have our team look into the matter and decide accordingly,” said a senior   official.
 
 Raj Singh Gehlot, owner of Ambience developers, had told TOI on Thursday the changed entry and exit gates are not illegal and that the new route is as per the original layout plan. “If you look at the original layout plan, it shows the route we’ve opened up now. As it is, my hotel and mall are beyond 500m and the move is in no way intended to escape the   order banning sale of liquor within 500m of national and state highways,” said Gehlot.
 
 Cyber Hub outlet owners have long been saying their outlets are beyond 500m from NH-8. TOI had reported on Friday that DTCP had warned all hotel, bar and restaurant associations that any changes in entry and exit points without their permission will invite action, and will be invalid.
 
 The routes were altered following the Supreme Court ruling that bars and restaurants cannot serve alcohol if they are within 500 metres of a state or national highway. 
 
 
