NAGPUR: Activists working in the team of veteran journalist-cum-social worker Umesh Choubey, are now set to alert the Ministry of external affairs and the Saudi Arabia embassy regarding the thriving   racket in the city, which threatened the life of the latest victim. 

 Two cases of human trafficking have been registered at Sakkardara police station so far in last few months in which women were sold to families in Saudi Arabia as domestic helps who were subjected to inhuman torture. 
 
 The first case of trafficking was ignored by Sakkardara police for several months, despite intervention from CP K Venkatesh, before it was registered couple of months ago. After registering the offence, Sakkardara police’s laid back approach gave the woman agent from Bada Tajbagh enough time to seek anticipatory bail. There was no further progress in the first case. 
 
 The victim had, however, managed to return to her native place after being helped by the authorities in the Saudi Arabia.
 
 Unlike the first case, however, FIR was promptly registered in the second case following complaint from the elder sister of the victim who is still confined inside the residence of the Shaikh family in  . The family is learnt to have bought her through their Mumbai-based agent Mustafa and Syed, who too have been booked as accused in the case. 
 
 The police, who had already arrested a city-based agent a day ago, produced him before the court. 
 
 It was after the arrest that complainant in the case started receiving threats. The accused have also allegedly been threatening to kill the complainant’s sister in Saudi Arabia. Choubey’s team members including Sunita Thakre, Savita Pandey and Naresh Nimje, are now trying to alert the embassy and MEA regarding the threats from Mumbai-based agents. “The victim too had spoken to the officer at Sakkardara police station from Saudi Arabia stating that she is being constantly threatened,” said Thakre. 
 
 Choubey said that awareness is required to be created at places like Bada Tajbagh and such vulnerable places where the citizens become easy targets of the traffickers luring them with sound jobs. 
 
