BHOPAL The trial run of chair car bogies under the model rail coach project was carried out from Habibganj railway station to Barkheda on Friday.

 Terming it as a “common man’s train”, the engineers of Nishatpura rail coach factory said the coach is based on design of Shatabdi, but is a general coach. This is the first chair car train under the model rail coach project assigned to Nishatpura rail coach factory, which has been lent a modular look by remodelling old coaches from different zones of Indian railways. The train, which left Habibganj railway station at 9:30 am, had 15 general chair car coaches. No AC coach has been included in this rake. The capacity of each rail coach is 108 passengers. “This is completely a common man’s train for small route journey. The coaches are interconnected with each other and have been designed keeping in view the people’s comfort. Special features have been added to these coaches with comfortable cushioned seats, automated display board and station announcement facility,” said Sunil Taylor, deputy chief mechanical engineer who is leading the team for manufacturing railway coaches under the project. The train’s trial was done at the speed of 110 kmph as per section speed.
 
 Among other features of new chair car express coaches are braille information for blinds, food tables, announcement of stations for ease and alerting passengers about their destination along with speed of train, well decorated coach and modular toilets with indicators. After regular complaints by passengers about nails being a problem for them, engineers have tried their best to get rid of nails, which can hurt the passengers. According to sources in Bhopal rail division, this rake of coaches might be helpful and may be used in trains running between Habibganj and Khajuraho.
 
 However, some of the passengers who had a look at it at the Habibganj railway station found the coaches comfortable, but toilets congested. Vikas Nagre, a passenger from   entered the train out of excitement. “I was happy to see the coach. It is different and comfortable as compared to old general coaches. However, I found the toilets congested,” said Nagre. Earlier, the railways had carried out the trial of sleeper coaches on January 19.
 
 
