JAIPUR: City mayor   on Sunday directed   (JMC) officials to prepare a feasibility report on developing Night Bazaar and Food Street at  . 

 As thousands of domestic and local tourists visit the historical monument, JMC plans to earn revenue after developing regulated market. Lahoti was inspecting Walled City areas to explore possibilities of beautifying the city. “Under the smart city project various infrastructure facilities will be developed. A model road has also been proposed in the Walled City. Night Bazaar will be an added feature for residents and tourists. JMC could also earn revenue after auctioning the space,” said a JMC official.
 
 Lahoti inspected the damaged sewerage line at Jal Mahal and directed officials to put a file for approval. Directions were also given to start the sewerage treatment plant (STP) at Brahampuri. JMC had recently sanctioned Rs 25 crore to prepare a DPR for renovation of STP at Brahampuri.
 
 While inspecting the Govind Devji temple area, the mayor directed to beautify the Jai Narain temple. He also met the representatives of Phool Mandi, Sabzi Mandi and Kabri Mandi who sit outside the temple area. They were asked to submit the number of registered vendors in the area. “To develop a systematic market, directions were given to develop a shelter and sitting space for vendors on adjoining JMC land. The JMC will also carry out a drive to remove the small vendors to clear the way,” said a JMC official.
 
 Near the temple area, the mayor also requested the shopkeepers to put garbage in the bins outside. The representatives assured to place bins outside every shop till April 1. 
 
 The mayor also approved the request of constructing toilets and installation of reverse osmosis (RO) system to provide safe drinking water for pilgrims. The parking will also be developed on JMC land in front of the temple. 
 
 As many JMC lands are encroached by small vendors and land mafia in Amber zone, directions were given to identify the JMC land and submit a report within three days. 
 
