NEW DELHI:   seems to have changed the way consumers withdraw money from ATMs, straining the cash dispensing machines at a time when they are yet to start getting their full quota of cash. 

  Industry sources said that compared to pre-demonetisation days when there were an average 125 withdrawals from each of the nearly 2.2 lakh ATMs, the number has gone up as account holders are using multiple debit cards to stash money at home. This is despite the government raising the withdrawal limit to Rs 4,500 a day (and to Rs 10,000 now). The average withdrawal amount at one go was around Rs 3,500 before Prime Minister  's decision to do away with old Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes. 
 
 "With the withdrawal limits rising, account holders are now preferring to go to ATMs instead of going to bank branches where the formalities are more. Things are slowly returning to normal as more cash is coming into the system," said a source.
 
 Estimates suggest that around Rs 7,000 crore is now flowing into ATMs every day, compared to over Rs 8,000 crore in pre-demonetisation days. At the peak of the cash crunch - when there were long queues outside branches and ATMs - banks were making just around Rs 2,000 crore available for dispensing through the cash vending machines.
 
 Sources said that in pre-demonetisation days, cash logistics firms would typically refill around 1.25 lakh ATMs every day (although the busy ones required more than one refill daily) and the number now is between 1.1 lakh and 1.25 lakh a day. "Until the middle of December, 20-25% of the ATMs were working. But a month down the line, things are inching towards normalcy in terms of refilling," an industry source said.
 
  With more money being printed at the currency presses, the situation has certainly eased. Estimates suggest that around Rs 9 lakh crore has been pumped into the system through new Rs 500 and Rs 2,000 notes, and Rs 1-1.25 lakh crore was available with currency chests across the country. In all, Rs 15.44 lakh crore had been sucked out of the system through demonetisation and the estimates suggest that close to 60% of the cash is back in the system. 
 
 As a result, demand still outstrips supply, resulting in several bank customers not getting their full entitlement of Rs 24,000 a week.
 
 
