The nine days preceding Dussehra see several temples across Goa celebrating a visually arresting ritual, one that draws devotees in hordes, more for pleasure than religious significance.
Called makharotsav, the practice is more common to the temples in   and sees the idol of the mother goddess seated on an elaborately decorated, large swing that is swayed to the tunes of bhajans and aartis.
 Celebrations commence from the first day of the seventh month of the lunar calendar, Ashwin. In some temples, the makharotsav is held for all nine nights, while in others, it is held for the last three or four nights. However, it is the last night, the most auspicious night of Mahanavami, that witnesses the greatest crowds. 
 Sixty-five-year-old Madhu   from  , says, “Autumn’s cool breeze and pleasant moonlight inspired farming communities to place the mother goddess on a swing. The ritual is an expression of their gratitude for a good harvest.” 
 Ponda is a village blessed with fertile lands that find use in horticultural and agricultural activities, which is possibly why this tradition was practiced predominantly among temples of the taluka. Today, this tradition has also gained popularity in a few temples in  , and in some villages in Tiswadi. 
 Every year, village artists outdo themselves in decorating the rectangular wooden framework on which the idol is placed. Besides other decorative items, paper of various colours finds heavy usage. Participation is solely for spiritual and devotional pleasure and none of the folk artists looks for financial remuneration.
 Prabhakar Vernekar, associated with the temple of Mahamaya Kalika, said, “During Navratri, devotees scattered in various parts of Goa, make best efforts to visit the temple situated in the rural area of   to enjoy the sights of makharotsav. We derive pleasure by taking part in the makharotsav of Mahamaya Kalika.” 
 In Marcela of Vargao in Ponda, the Devaki-Krishna temple attracts devotees who gather to witness the goddess’ decorated swing being swayed to the beat of traditional percussion instruments.
 
