THANE: The voter turn out in the tribal pockets of   forests was more than 70 per cent, it is learnt. 

 Though most of the 2,000-plus   leave home early for work in the mainland, the young, middle-aged and the old exercised their voting rights and reached the three booths in the   Municipal Corporation-run school no. 65 at Yeoor on Tuesday.
 
 Most residents claimed they voted in large numbers to raise the pitch for improving basic facilities in their area. 
 
 “All we want is adequate supply of drinking water, decent roads, uninterrupted power supply and other basic necessaties. We want a change in our villages and election is the only way to assert for our demands. The interior parts of the forest continue to be deprived of all the basic needs. We have to walk in darkness to our homes post sunset. Also, there is no scientific waste disposal system or garbage collection,” said one of the tribal voters.
 
 Even the youth of the green belt made sure they came out to cast their votes. 
 
 “As soon as I turned 18, I made sure to make a voter’s identity card and this was the first time I cast my vote. Voting for us is important as we need the government’s help in making our area a better place to live in. My criteria before casting the vote was to check the previous work done by the people or party for our betterment and the promises that they had made before these elections,” said  , a tribal voter. 
 
 Experts observed that the adivasi belt was clear about the voting of the four panel system as compared to the ones in the slums and high rises. The ones who were casting the votes were barely seen asking for queries or having doubts. 
 
 All we want is adequate supply of drinking water, decent roads, uninterrupted power supply and other basic necessaties. We want a change in our villages and election is the only way to assert for our demands. The interior parts of the forest continue to be deprived of all the basic needs. We have to walk in darkness to our homes post sunset. Also, there is no scientific waste disposal system or garbage collection
 
