KOLKATA: The Kolkata Police wireless division that manages the supply of   to the city  , has become a worried lot. With a sudden 68% rise in   for pilot cars, the cops feel it will be a touch and go situation. “While using a pilot car is a sure shot way to establish oneself as a VIP, we have to give priority to those who might need it the most,” explained an official.

 Wednesday recorded one of the highest demands for cars with only two to three of them available on duty. While the daily requisition is for around 18-22 cars, on Wednesday, 38 out of 42 available for pool were requisitioned. Going by the market rates of diesel (Rs 59.61 per litre), the fuel bill jumped around Rs 30,500.
 
 The police though, were hoping the administration’s zeal to control excess costs will put a brake on the new found fixation with pilot cars. “Unlike Wednesday, when there was an IPL match, we are not expecting a similar rush on regular days,” said an officer. 
 
 According to a source, around eight pilot cars were requisitioned for trips to Eden Gardens for the Kolkata team match. While two of them remained static near the team hotel, two others were kept aside for the movement of the team buses. Another one was reserved for match officials, and yet another carried the kits and luggage of the players. Two more were on standby at Eden Gardens in case any of the players wanted to leave early or had to be accompanied to the Airport. “When a prominent leader from south Kolkata sought a pilot car in the evening, scrambled to make arrangements,” the source said.
 
 A senior official of the wireless division said certain politicians have suddenly began asking for the pilot cars for touring the districts. “We keep each car’s tank full as we are never sure about the distance they would travel,” said another officer.
 
 “Important dignitaries like governor Keshari Nath Tripathi, acting chief justice, Nishita Mhatre and mayor Sovan Chatterjee are each provided two to three pilot cars daily. The same number of cars are also requisitioned for MP Abhishek Banerjee whose security requirements had recently been reassessed,” explained an official. With around 70 sergeants, an equal number of drivers, reserve force personnel and commandos deployed for the security of VVIPs, the pilot car teams are huge. “We are now appealing the dignitaries to be considerate while requisitioning for pilot cars,” an IPS officer of Lalbazar said. 
 
