BENGALURU: Farrukh Dustov, Uzbekistan's longest-serving Davis Cupper along with  , shrugged off the fact that he wasn't picked for singles action against India with a smile. The Tashkent-based 30-year-old, coming off a six-month injury enforced-break, tendonitis of the shoulder, followed by a wrist issue, played translator instead, during the post-draw media conference of the   Asia-Oceania Group 1 round two clash on Thursday.

 The visitors chose to go with their 22-year-olds - Sanjar Fayziev (ranked 376) and   (406) - for the opening day's schedule at the Karnataka State Lawn Tennis Association courts. Dustov will partner Fayziev in the doubles on Saturday against   and debutant Sriram Balaji.
 
 Dustov, a 13-year veteran in Cup play, inspired by  's charge in Australia, where he won his 18thGrand Slam title and followed it up with stunning runs in Indian Wells and Miami, said, "To see what he's doing at 35 is inspiring, coming off an injury break. That's what I am going to take with me when I return to the Tour, the week following Davis Cup, with a Chal lenger in Taipei. He showed us what we can do post 30."
 
 Dustov, 6 ft 4', who has a 20-29 winloss record in Davis Cup, weighed in behind his younger colleagues, saying they have what it takes to do the job for the team. "We're united, we're together, we want what is best for the team, it doesn't matter who plays. That's the captain's choice," he said.
 
 Leander Paes, a veteran of nearly three decades in Cup play, was visibly shaken by his non-inclusion in the four-man squad. Paes, 44 in June, briefly waited outside the media room at the KSLTA as non-playing captain   and the Indians held forth. He then walked in to the press conference and took a place behind the press corps, who grilled Bhupathi on Paes' exclusion. Paes, looking misty-eyed as journalists gathered around him later, criticised the selection criteria that led to his exclusion.
 
 Both Davis Cup greybeards Dustov and Paes know that in the competition, tough opponents are not defined by their ranking or reputation, but by their tightness as a team. India's No.1 and 2 players in this weekend's competition - 22-year-old Ramkumar Ramanathan and 27-year-old Gunneswaran - will do well to get into a huddle. 
 
