CHENNAI: It was in the gardens of the   that the idea of the Women's Indian Association (WIA) came to be in 1917, and so it is only befitting that 100 years later, the association chose the venue to celebrate its centenary. 

 The 100th year celebrations will be inaugurated by President   on Friday, with Carnatic vocalist   having been invited to present the invocation song.
 
 Founded on May 7, 1917, by women's rights activists such as  ,  , Dr Muthulakshmi Reddy, Sister Subbalaskmi and Sarojini Naidu, who referred to themselves as the "daughters of India", the mission of the association to empower women hasn't changed over the years.
 
 "Times though have changed as have the issues that women have to contend with," says WIA chairperson Padma Venkataraman, daughter of former president R Venkatraman.
 
 In the early 20th century, WIA battled against the social evils - which ranged from a lack of education of girls, child marriage, and the denial of voting rights. 
 
 The WIA took an active part in the political movements of the time. In 1917, for instance, when Besant was arrested and interned, branches of the WIA took active part in obtaining her release.
 
 The WIA also published a monthly journal in English named 'Stri-Dharma', which was edited by freedom fighter Muthulakshmi Reddy from 1931 to 1940. WIA was the first women's association in India to present a memorandum to the Round Table Conference on Women's Franchise and her Constitutional rights as well as the initiator of the first All Asian Women's Conference. 
 
 From a single branch that fought to make its voice heard, the WIA today has more than 40 branches and affiliations, 9000 members, and looks after the welfare of more than 5000 women.
 
 At the WIA's present premises in RA Puram, women learn computer science, nursing, and tailoring, and are provided a hostel "We are no longer an association but a federation," says M Bargavi Devendra, honorary secretary. 
 
 "While our monthly activities and programmes change, our sole aim is to work for the socio-economic benefit of women.
 
