Bhopal: Showing exemplary courage and presence of mind, an 11-year-old schoolboy managed to escape from the clutches of two abductors near Jyoti Talkies Square on Monday afternoon.

 Rishi Rajput, 11, a class VI student at Servite Convent Senior Secondary School in Hoshangabad district, was abducted at around 8.15 am in the morning. “I was going to my school on my bicycle when two uncles came and said ‘beta apke papa ka accident ho gaya hai’ (your father has met with an accident). They asked me to park the bicycle to a nearby stand and shoved me into a white Indigo car. One of the uncles had moustache and the other was clean-shaven. One kept driving the car, while the other was sitting beside me and watching a movie on his mobile phone,” Rishi told TOI.
 
 Rishi started getting scared as it was getting late and they were going round and round in the car. In Bhopal, the duo stopped the car beside a shop to purchase water. “I saw a board where it was written MP Nagar. I know one of my relative lives here. So I told one of the uncles that I want to go to the toilet. They allowed me. That’s when I escaped and hid inside a bakery shop. They did not follow me as there were people (in the bakery). I met an uncle in a shop, he helped me and informed papa,” Rishi said.
 
 Rishi’s father Jitendra Rajput, who rushed from Hoshangabad, said he was not aware of his son getting abducted as they thought that he has gone to school and would return by 2 pm as usual. “It was at around 1.45 pm when I received a call telling me about the incident,” Rajput told TOI.
 
 Rishi’s school identity card was carrying the telephone number of his father and that was how he was tracked down. Jitendra Singh Rajput is resident of a housing board colony in Hoshangabad district, is a farmer by profession and owns around 30 acres of land. “The youth who informed Rishi’s father also informed the police. Our patrolling van was nearby, and soon they were brought to the police station,” MP Nagar police station in-charge Ashish Kumar said.
 
 No case was registered at MP Nagar police station as Rishi’s parent wanted to get a case registered at Hoshangabad. Jitendra Singh said, “I can’t understand who executed this as we don’t have any enmity with anyone”. Meanwhile, the Bhopal police is checking CCTV footages of the spot where the kid managed to escape. 
 
 
