GURUGRAM: Angered over police inaction in the alleged dowry death case of a 23-year-old woman,   blocked Sohna Road for over an hour on Thursday morning by keeping the body at the busy  .

 Though police have added the section of dowry death against the nine accused, including the woman’s husband and her parents-in-law, they have also booked some 60 protesters, including the woman’s family members, for rioting.
 
 The woman,  , died on Wednesday after being treated in the hospital for nine days. Ritu’s father Krishan said though a police complaint was lodged against the nine accused on April 24 — the day he admitted her to a private hospital from her husband’s house in Tigra village — no one has been arrested yet.
 
 According to Krishan, a resident of Sushant Lok Phase-2, when his daughter got married to Pradeep Man Singh in February 2014, he gave him a Scorpio and a Santro, apart from Rs 21 lakh in cash and 2.5 kg gold.
 
 But Pradeep and his family members — his father, mother and sister — had been mentally harassing and torturing her for Rs 25 lakh more from the very day she went to their house. 
 
 “On December 2014, I further gave Rs 10 lakh to Pradeep by selling a piece of land in Delhi, but the family kept harassing her for the rest Rs 15 lakh. In July 2016, I gave him another Rs 4 lakh, but later that year, the family threw Ritu out of the house after beating her up,” Krishan said.
 
 He claims the abuse caused a miscarriage, as Ritu was expecting at that time. However, he did not lodge a police complaint as Pradeep’s family had apologised to him.
 
 “Around 10 am on April 24, my daughter called me up and sounded very worried. The next day when I wanted to bring her back home, I was pleaded against it by some other relatives. But soon I got a call from one of Pradeep’s family members asking me to take my daughter’s body as she had died,” Krishan said.
 
 “When I went to their house, I saw Ritu lying half on the bed and half on the floor. I rushed her to a private hospital immediately, but she passed away on Wednesday,” he added.
 
 Police said an FIR was registered under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 498A (husband or relative subjecting to cruelty), 506(criminal intimidation) of the IPC against the accused and sections of dowry death have also been added.
 
 “We had asked the woman’s family to help us identify the accused, but they did not cooperate. That is why the accused have not been arrested yet,” SHO of Sadar police station inspector Vijay Kumar said.
 
 
