MUMBAI: Old and  , over 38 wholesale markets, contaminated drinking water, traffic congestion and toxic fumes emitted by thousands of jewellery-making units. Crumbling infrastructure is crippling the thickly populated  , which covers  ,  ,  ,   and Marine Lines. 

 C ward also has the notorious distinction of not having a single  , though it is a tinderbox with crowded wholesale markets and gold and silver melting and refining units in shaky structures. Currently, in case of a fire or a building collapse, engines and tankers are rushed either from the Colaba or Byculla fire station. 
 
 The upscale Marine Drive and congested Kalbadevi and Zaveri Bazaar have been recording the worst potable water supply over the last few years, with up to 24% contamination. 
 
 “In 2015, 80-100 residents fell ill due to  ,” said Nirvan Goradia a resident of Nar Narayan building, Zaver Baug. “We complained to the local ward office, but they could not find the source of the contamination.” 
 
 According to BMC officials, the major reason for contaminated water supply is old, bunched water pipelines running through house gullies that are covered with garbage and waste thrown by residents. Another reason for the contamination, claim civic officials, is the fact that the ward is densely populated—the ratio is 91,991 people per sq km, the highest in the city. As per the 2011 census, C ward has 1.65 lakh population. In addition, the footfall of floating population to the wholesale markets, including Asia’s largest textile wholesale market Mulji Jetha Market, retail market Mangaldas Market, wholesale medicine market Dava Bazaar and Zaveri Bazaar, is over 10 lakh every day.
 
 Not just Zaver Baug, but other areas such as Dabholkar Wadi, Narottam Wadi, Bhatia Mahajan Wadi, Badam Wadi and Velington Terrace also complain of dirty water and traffic congestion in the narrow lanes. 
 
 “It’s BMC's duty to provide clean drinking water, but it has failed to do so,” said former local BJP corporator Janak Sanghvi, who is hoping to get a ticket this civic polls. He could not contest the last elections as the ward was reserved for woman. “The ward urgently needs a fire station. Over 30 fire incidents are reported in Kalbadevi every year in addition to building collapses every monsoon,” Sanghvi added.
 
 
