HYDERABAD: The Chandralok Complex near   isn't structurally fit, according to an experts' committee report. The report was commissioned after a 40-year-old man died when a cement railing from the structure fell on him in December last year.

 The decades-old commercial building was sealed by the   (GHMC) after the incident. The GHMC also set up a committee comprising civil and structural engineering experts to inspect the site and issue a fitness certificate, once it was sufficiently renovated.
 
 But six months on, the complex is far from fit, says the report by a five-member team headed by Prof N V   of  , Hyderabad. The committee has said the building does not meet safety standards and is not structurally stable. This, despite roof and basement being renovated. 
 
 “The roof top has several additional structures such as cell towers, AC units and water tankers which restrict the free flow of water accumulated on the terrace during rains. All obstacles restricting the free flow of water should be removed and repairs have to be done to full extent,“ said Ramana Rao. Clarifying that the mandatory fitness certificate will be kept on hold for now, he said, “ As the structural stability of the building directly affects the lives of people, a fitness certificate will be issued only after the building meets all safety standards.“
 
 The panel said a mechanism must be evolved “to see the building association is held responsible for monitoring and maintenance of premises, which includes restoration and rehabilitation if required“.
 
 Tenants, owners hope for revival
 
 The 60-odd traders who occupied the complex, apart from training institutes and offices, vacated the premises after the December death. Most of them were tenants. “These shops were the only source of livelihood for many people. But I had to unfortunately let go off some of my workers after the mishap,“ said Nagesh M, owner of Superb Men's Tailors located within the complex. For the initial renovation, shop owners were asked to pay `60 per square feet. “I had to shell out `36,000 for the renovation despite having nothing to do with the tragedy. I hope the authorities do what is required to re-start business here,“ said one shop owner.
 
