KOZHIKODE: The district administration in association with the education department is set to ensure the safety of schoolchildren in the district. 

 The assistant education officers are directed to inspect all schools in their limits before the new academic year to monitor the condition of buildings and other amenities.
 
 The officials are also directed to fell trees those pose threat to school buildings and students. The officials are also directed to seek the intervention of public works department and other departments to demolish dangerous buildings and pillars on school compounds.
 
 During a meeting convened on Thursday, district collector   directed the education department officials to ensure the repair and maintenance of school buildings and toilet complexes also before June 1.
 
 Proper coordination of teachers, parents and officials should be ensured for the overall development of schools, urged the district collector.
 
 The education department has strengthened safety initiatives following the death of a student as a coconut tree fell on him on the compound of a city school in 2015. 
 
 Over 2,500 state syllabus schools are functioning in the district in which over 1,200 are lower and upper primary schools. All these schools will be monitored by the education department officials before the academic year.
 
 Apart from education department, the motor vehicles department ( ) and the police have also beefed up measures to ensure safety of students in the new academic year. 
 
 The MVD officials have started inspection of vehicles that facilitate the travel of school students to ensure the fitness of the vehicle. Classes on road manners and the precautions to be taken while ferrying students will be held before May-end. 
 
 The district collector has also directed the police and excise department to start inspection at shops on school premises to prevent the sale of tobacco and other addictive substances to schoolchildren. 
 
 The officials will conduct surprise inspections, as many shopowners continue to sell tobacco products and psychotropic substances to students. 
 
 Besides, the education department officials also reviewed the preparedness for academic improvement for 2017-18. 
 
 The meeting also decided to submit a report on the performance of schools in the district in the SSLC examination. The department officials will also review the variation in the number students who have achieved A+ in all subjects and the subject-wise performance of students. 
 
 Deputy director of education Gireesh Cholayil, Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan district project officer M   and other officials attended the meeting.
 
