MYSURU: After activists launched a drive opposing   of  , deputy commissioner D   on Thursday temporarily suspended the work. He said that desilting would continue only after holding larger consultations.

 “This is the first time I am witnessing opposition to desilting from the public. However, I have asked the contractor to temporarily suspend the work. The lake development authority and my predecessor too had given their nod to the project. But if the people are against it, we will not take it ahead. It will not be taken up till we build a consensus on saving the waterbody,” Randeep told TOI.
 
 The desilting project, which costs Rs 3 crore, was taken up by the district administration on February 14, in collaboration with the   (UoM). However, walkers and joggers who regularly use the lake remain staunchly opposed to the project.
 
 The activists expressed fears of desilting having an adverse impact on the retention capacity of the lake. They also point out that the many species of birds that flock Kukkarahalli Lake, would have no source of water if desilting work was not stopped. Randeep said that he would approach experts in the Karnataka Lake Conservation and Development Authority, the apex body for preservation of lakes in Karnataka. He is also planning on holding a discussion with the activists.
 
 However, plans to construct toilets, a boating jetty and shelter on the lakebed has also raised the hackles of the walkers, who fear that these facilities could eat up the green cover on the periphery of the waterbody.
 
 “The authorities concerned are not taking necessary measures to remove encroachments on the lake’s feeder canal, which will help replenish supply of fresh water in the lake. The Purnaiah Canal is encroached,” the activists said. They also pointed to the dwindling number of inlets to the lake. Although sewage flow from the UoM and Karnataka State Open University was diverted from the lake a few years ago, sewage from the   continues to flow into the lake.
 
 
