BHOPAL: A fire broke out in Anand Paint Factory in Govindpura industrial area on Friday. It was the second incident of fire in the factory in last one year. No loss of life or major damage of property were reported in the incident which sparked scare in workers and management of other factories in the area for a couple of hours. The power supply of the area remained suspended due to which all factories in the industrial area were shut for a day. Until the raging fire was extinguished, people remained on edge fearing the fire may spread to other factories. 

 A chemical after exposure to sunlight triggered the fire, police said. “After seeing a column of smoke coming from the factory, people from industrial area reported the matter to us,” sub-inspector (SI) Santosh Raghuvanshi said, adding no causality was reported in the incident.
 
 After battling for four hours, five firefighters with help of nine water tankers, put out the inferno.
 
 On Friday morning, Raghuvanshi said, factory owner Prem Chawla sent some labourers for clean-up as some scrap was kept inside the factory. Soon after cleaning the factory, the workers reported the fire.
 
 “The fire soon spread to other parts of the factory because of the dry grass. Soon, fire tenders from fire stations were sent to the spot to control leaping flames,” the police said.
 
 After previous fire incident, the building of factory lost strength. When   firemen were trying to enter the building to douse the fire, owner of factory warned sounding a word of caution, saying the structure had turned weak after the fire last year.
 
 SIDE STORY
 
 Spike in fires after summer 
 
 With summer onset, incidents of fire have gone up by 10 times in past 15 days. Every day, Fatehgarh fire control room receives about 20-30 fire related calls. According to fire control room records, village areas, including Ratibad, Mali Khedi, Khajuri, Mugaliachap, Bilkhiria, Eatkhedi, Neelbad and Parvalia are most prone to fire incidents.
 
 On Friday alone, the control room in six hours received complaints about fire from seven places: Ratibad, Govindpura, Mali Khedi, Khajuri, Mughaliachap, Parvalia and Jehangirabad.
 
 Operator at BMC fire control room said: “Some 15 days ago, the number of complaints was three per day, which now went up to 30.”
 
 He said: “In most cases, cause behind mishaps is short-circuit, open electrical wires, farmers who lit fire in their farms to clean it up.”
 
 “Along with these complaints in   area where garbage is dumped catches fire daily due to soaring temperature. The garbage consists of plastic polythene, which are more prone to fire in summers,” operator said. 
 
 There are 10 fire stations in the state capital and only 20 fire tenders are available with BMC for population of over 26 lakh. The BMC has already applied for a 55-metre hydraulic fire tender so that can gain access to congested areas and tall buildings. But they have not yet been given the fire tender. Currently, the BMC has one hydraulic fire fighter of 22 metres.
 
