AHMEDABAD: A day after protesting against the management of the company for not heeding to their demands, workers of   Limited’s Nano plant in Sanand on Thursday approached the labour commissioner office (Ahmedabad region) seeking labour authorities’ intervention into the matter.

 “There was a conciliation meeting between the representatives of the workers’ union and the senior company officials of the plant. The company sought time to file its response. Hence, the next meeting has been kept on March 15,” said M S Patel, deputy labour commissioner, government of Gujarat.
 
 Increase in wages, payment of higher bonus by the company and amendment in standing order were the key issues discussed during the meeting held at the office of the labour commissioner in Ahmedabad.
 
 “Despite the negotiation with the company management over wage hike going on for more than six months, the company representatives informed labour authorities that they (plant officials) had not studied the workers’ demand and sought more time do so. Now, the next meeting has been fixed on March 15,” said Hitesh Rabari, president,  , a workers’ union at the plant.
 
 Dozens of workers from the plant had come from Sanand to labour commissioner office in Ahmedabad to pitch for their demands.
 
 Terming the workers demand as unreasonable, the company stated, “Tata Motors works with its union as part of collective bargaining towards long-term benefits of both workmen and organization. The demand made by the union are unreasonable. The company remains engaged in a harmonious discussion with union representatives. Instead of continuing discussion with management, workmen have approached labour authorises for conciliation. Tata Motors thanks the labour authorities for the intervention and will work along with them to arrive at a solution.”
 
 In order to express their discontent with the deadlock over wage hike, a section of workers on Wednesday protested by boycotting company transportation to return their homes. Police were called in to tackle the situation.
 
 
