LUCKNOW: Two video clips which caught students during intimate moments went viral in the city recently. Both videos were shot on college campuses without consent of the couples. The offenders in both the cases could be heard in the audio drawing pleasure out of their act. However, for the couples, the videos led to   and  . In the both cases, the students have stopped going to college. However, no action has been taken against the offenders.

 These two are not stray cases. Taking pictures and making videos of girls and couples without their consent and then circulating them on   is becoming a menace. Experts said that besides mischief, tendency of moral policing and that to harm somebody's reputation are the main reasons behind such acts. However, there are no adequate legal remedies. An aggrieved person can approach court for action but by that time, the victim's reputation has been damaged. Hence, experts advocate strict laws against offenders.
 
 Ashish Kumar Srivastava, a legal expert at Lucknow University , said, “Such incidents are certainly a violation of the right to privacy.Hence, after the recent Supreme Court judgment, the government should come with strict provisions in IPC and IT Acts.“
 
 UP STF additional SP Triveni Singh, also a cyber expert, explained that victims in such situations can at the most approach high court and file a defamation suit for damaging reputation under the violation of privacy , and seek compensation for mental trauma.
 
 Psychologist at Delhi's Lady Sri Ram College for women Kanika Ahuja said such people are self-proclaimed moral police who think these are people corrupting Indian culture. “With shooting such videos and circulating them, they would bring shame to them, particularly women, and therefore, others will not indulge in these things and this will preserve our culture. We need strict laws against it,“ she said.
 
 Law faculty at   National Law University Manvendra Kumar Tiwari said the right to privacy puts the obligation on the state to not violate it and also imposes an obligation upon the state to ensure that it is not violated by anyone. So, if an incident lies within the domain of right to privacy , it will amount to its violation, even if the act is at the behest of a private person,“ said Tiwari.
 
