GREATER NOIDA: A 45-year-old lawyer took off his shirt outside the   office on Thursday in protest against the delay in getting his house from the Authority. The lawyer,   (45), said he had been patiently waiting since 2014 to get possession of his house allotted by  .

 Speaking to TOI, Sharma said he had bought the 120 sqm house, part of a BHS-9 launched by GNIDA in 2009, five years ago. It is located in Sector Zu-2 of Block-B in Greater Noida. “I purchased the property for Rs 40 lakh from the original allottee in 2012,” said Sharma. “Transfer charges, stamp duty and lease rent were paid. I also paid all instalments amounting to Rs 1.75 lakh of the extra compensation, which was to be paid to farmers whose land was acquired by GNIDA. Till now, I have paid Rs 49 lakh for my home, which remains incomplete despite a notice from the GNIDA in July 2014 to take possession of the property,” he said.
 
 Sharma said that he was fed up with having got nothing but empty promises for the past three years. “I have left no stone unturned in trying to get possession of my property. I have met all officials but to no avail. My property remains incomplete to date,” he said. “GNIDA was to hand over the property after constructing one floor. Allottees are allowed to construct another 1.5 floors on it. But today, the house has no door or windows, tiles, or sanitaryware etc. Whatever construction has been done is of extremely poor quality,” he said.
 
 According to the scheme, three blocks (A, B and C) were to be developed by GNIDA for the allottees.
 
 On Thursday, Sharma reached the GNIDA office at 10am and lodged his protest by taking off his shirt and hanging a placard around his neck. “The GNIDA has left me with no choice. I have invested my hard-earned money in my home but I can’t see any end to my woes,” he said. On being informed about the protest, GNIDA additional CEO Krishan Kumar met Sharma and assured him that his house would be completed in the next few days and handed over to him as soon as possible.
 
