 and stroke are among the leading causes of death in India. One of the main risk factor is high blood cholesterol.   is an oily, fat-like substance that our bodies make or we get it from the foods we eat. Cholesterol can be divided into various subtypes e.g. LDL-cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, VLDL-cholesterol and triglycerides. To simplify, we can remember that only HDL-c is good for body and all others are bad cholesterol. 

 Our bodies need cholesterol in small amount. But if there’s too much LDL cholesterol which is also called as bad cholesterol, it can get deposited in blood vessels, making it difficult for blood to flow normally. Cholesterol deposition forms blockages that ultimately lead to heart disease, heart attacks and stroke. Also, the deposition of cholesterol in blood vessels may not be a stable plaques but may be friable deposits surrounded by soft blood clots, which can break and cause catastrophic events such as heart attacks, paralytic attacks and sudden death. Cholesterol lowering drugs from statin class not only lower bad cholesterol but also stabilize the unstable cholesterol deposits and therefore reduce the risk of acute catastrophic emergencies. Instead of taking medication after detection of   or heart disease, it is wiser to control cholesterol of people who are at risk. This can be achieved by regular screening of cholesterol levels for high risk group people. 
 
 High cholesterol typically doesn’t have signs or symptoms so many people don’t realize that their cholesterol levels are high. Screening is a key to detection. Frequency of cholesterol check depends on your risk of heart disease. Total cholesterol level should be less than 200mg/dl. LDL (bad) cholesterol should be less than 100 mg/dl and HDL (good) cholesterol should be 40 mg/dl or higher. 
 
 There are some ways we can prevent the accumulation of bad cholesterol. Maintain a healthy lifestyle which includes at least moderate physical activity and healthy eating habits. Take a diet rich in fresh fruits, nuts and vegetables. Avoid trans fats, which may be in bakery food. Reduce the amount of saturated fats that you eat, which come from animal products like cheese or fatty meats. Be physically active on a regular basis, such as brisk walking, swimming, cycling, or even gardening. It’s important to maintain a healthy weight because being overweight or obese can raise your cholesterol levels as well as your risk for heart disease. Quit smoking, it will help lower your cholesterol. 
 
 Remember that regular cholesterol screening can determine if you’re at risk for a heart attack or stroke, or if you have diabetes. Prevention is always better than cure, so keep a check on cholesterol. 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
