NEW DELHI: The Pro Kabaddi Season Five auction that lasted over two days here saw a total of 230 players from the available pool of 421 being signed up by the 12 teams that will compete in the tournament beginning July 28. While   staffed their side with the maximum of 25, Team Haryana opted for a squad-strength of 22. Delhi have 20 players in their ranks while Jaipur went with 19. The eight other teams have the minimum required strength of 18 each. More importantly, all the owners sounded pretty satisfied with their team compositions.

 The biggest story of the auction, however, was the money UP spent on acquiring the services of raider Nitin Tomar, who went for Rs 93 lakh. Another raider Rohit Kumar was acquired by Bengaluru Bulls for Rs 81 lakh. Among the various outfits, Dabang Delhi and Team Gujarat have entrusted faith in their foreign buys to shoulder a major part of the responsibility.
 
 While Delhi have Iran's top allrounder Meraj Sheykh and his teammate Abofazel Maghsodlo, Gujarat went for Iranian defender Fazel Atrachali and countryman Abozar Mohajermighani, who was auctioned for Rs 50 lakh.
 
 On the face of it, UP seem to have a very balanced squad with some of India's key players representing them. Along with Nitin Tomar, they have raider Rishank Devadiga, ace defender   and allrounder Rajesh Narwal.
 
 U Mumba, winners of the second edition of the  , have the presence of Indian skipper Anup Kumar and raider Shabeer Bapu, who was instrumental in their triumph. Apart from that, they have the Korean skipper  , whom they bought for Rs 20 lakh, a pretty cheap buy given the quality the all-rounder brings to the mat.
 
 Patna Pirates, who are the two-time defending champions, have the instrumental raider  , their elite pick, raider Monu Goyat and experienced defender Vishal Mane. It is these players who have to shine if they are to do well over the course of the tournament that will last for three months.
 
 Jaipur Pink Panthers, too, look strong on paper with all-rounder Manjeet Chhillar and raiders Jasveer Singh and K Selvamani in their ranks. Team Tamil Nadu will rely heavily on the performance of raider  , whom they selected through priority pick on Monday. The former Puneri Paltan and Bengaluru Bulls player, who almost single-handedly won India the World Cup last year and was contracted for Rs 69.3 lakh, will have to be in top form, because TN have chosen to spend heavily on defenders. Team Haryana, meanwhile, have opted for Thailand captain Khomsan Thongkham, a raider who will prove a handful for most defenders. It will be interesting to note how the team uses him. Being a military man, he is mighty fit and just the kind of player one would like to have in a long-drawn league. All-rounder Surender Nada and defender Mohit Chhillar, too, will have to put their hands up if the new side are to make an impact.
 
 Bengal Warriors will ride on the performance of the talismanic Korean raider Jang Kun Lee, all-rounder Ran Singh and defender Surjeet Singh. The Bulls will rely largely on raider Rohit Kumar and their elite pick  , while Puneri Paltan have some terrific players answering to the names of Deepak Hooda, Sandeep Narwal and Dharmaraj Cheralathan. They are vastly experienced and capable of bringing down any opposition.
 
 The Telugu Titans have built their team around Rahul Chaudhari, who is as popular for his looks as his game. The presence of the veteran Rakesh Kumar will help the younger lot in the side to learn from his presence.
 
 
  
 
