PUNE:  's men will spend a sleepless night after squandering the good work of the first day and ending up facing a Herculean task to save the first Test against Australia at the MCA stadium.

 After wrapping up the Australian innings in the first over of the morning, the hosts displayed a distinct lack of application to be bundled out for 105, their 11th lowest total on home soil. They then extended the hospitality by dropping four catches as Australia consolidated their position by reaching 143-4 at close of Day 2, a good 298 runs on this difficult pitch.
 
 Captain  , dropped thrice, all off R Ashwin, was batting on 59 with Mitchell March on 21.
 
 Only twice have India managed to surmount a lead in excess of 150 runs and go on to win the Test: both came against Australia -first in 1985 at the MCG and second in 2001 in Kolkata. However, both the times, India had set opposition a target, whereas in Pune, they would be chasing in the fourth innings.
 
 There was no demon in the pitch even though the Gahunje track might have offered turn from the very first ball. Except for a bit of extra turn, it has remained true, like it had always been during the many first-class games in the past. It has offered good bounce and carry for the fast bowler willing to bend his back, like Mitchell Starc did on Friday.
 
 It's a difficult track to bat on early on in the innings, but once a batsman got set, there were runs for the taking - like Smith, and earlier as KL Rahul (64), showed. Which was why it was important to hang around a bit with the willow. The Indians failed to do that.
 
 Skipper Virat Kohli was visibly upset as catch after catch was dropped. If   and   - each dropping two catches, three of Smith and one of Mitchell Marsh - are sure to have nightmares, paceman   was distinctly off colour. Left-arm spinner   was perhaps too one dimensional in his line of attack and offie Jayant Yadav lacked consistency. Only Ashwin (3-68) earned the opposition's respect.
 
 Dwelling over the India's shortcoming beyond a point would, however, be taking the credit away from the Aussies. Left-arm speedster Starc got Cheteshwar Pujara with a ripper before Kohli obliged him with an irresponsible shot. But Australia's Man Friday was left-arm spinner   (6-35). 
 
 The 32-year-old looked innocuous in the morning session, bowling from the pavilion end. But post lunch, a change of ends saw O'Keefe suddenly become wrecker-in-chief.
 
 Opener Rahul had braved a cramping left-shoulder to make a quality half-century but his dismissal in the eighth over of the second session opened the sluice gates. His final spell read 4.1-1-5-6 as the last seven Indian wickets fell for 11 runs in the space of 47 balls in 38 minutes.
 
 Later, Smith's innings was built on firm wrists and loose hands. He effortlessly drove Jadeja and Ashwin, both operating with the new ball and made full use of his chances on 24, 29 and 37 to record his 21st Test fifty.
 
