BENGALURU: Former chief justice RM Lodha reiterated in New Delhi on Monday that his recommendations to streamline administration in the   could serve as a template for all National Sports Federations. His words only strengthened the resolve of the Union sports ministry which is pushing for reforms in the NSFs and their umbrella body, the Indian Olympic Association.

 The ministry on Monday decided to constitute a committee headed by secretary (sports) Injeti Srinivas to suggest improvements in the National Sports Development Code and functioning of sports federations.
 
 The panel, which has been asked to submit its report in a month, will recommend improvements in the present code on the basis of the suggestions and feedback given in meetings the ministry had with various stakeholders including NSFs, Olympians, Arjuna and Dronacharya awardees amongst others.
 
 Sources indicated that the ministry would incorporate relevant points from the roadmap charted out by the Lodha panel.
 
 Vidushpat Singhania, the sports law expert and partner of Krida Legal, told TOI: “The  's order should strengthen the ministry's resolve to impose good governance principles in sports. The ministry should welcome this decision and incorporate the principles of the Lodha committee which are not part of the sports code.”
 
 With the IOA's recent decision to name its former chiefs   and Abhay Singh Chautala as life presidents in its recent AGM being in conflict with the principles of good governance, the time is ripe for the ministry to either insist on self-regulation by the NSFs and   or pre pare themselves for tough external regulation.
 
 “These federations can no longer act as private clubs, they come under public law as they perform state-like functions, including selecting the national team. The ministry is keen on applying the principles enunciated in the Supreme Court to the NSFs and IOA as soon as possible,” sources told TOI.
 
 “The order will also strengthen our stand that whatever we implement in line with the verdict will be upheld by the courts in future. At all times, we will keep in mind the principles laid down in the International Olympic Committee Charter and fully respect the concept of autonomy but in case we are faced with legal action by any of the NSFs or NOC, the   verdict will serve as a precedent,” the sources said.
 
 Of interest is the appeal filed by the IOA in the Supreme Court against the   order upholding the validity of the code. Will Monday's verdict negate it?
 
