NEW DELHI: In a potential ice-breaker, India has invited Pakistan for the South Asian   which it will host next month in Indore. Pakistan though, top government sources told TOI, has declined the invitation.

 Other South Asian nations, all members of Saarc, have confirmed their participation for the Summit on achieving Sustainable Development Goals. The conference will be held by Indian Parliament and Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) in Indore, February 18-19.
 
 This would be the first high level engagement among South Asian nations since the cancellation of the   which was to be held in Islamabad in November last year. Enraged by the terror attack in J&K’s Uri, which was carried out by terrorists from across LoC, India had then isolated Pakistan diplomatically by forcing several other countries to withdraw from the summit. 
 
 According to Indian officials, while the Speakers’ Summit comprises Saarc members, it is not per se a Saarc activity and is driven more by IPU.
 
 In a first, India had also invited Myanmar for the Speakers’ conference. Myanmar too is learnt to have declined the invitation. The last edition of the event was held in Bangladesh and the next one will be hosted by Sri Lanka. PM Narendra Modi had earlier himself directed the government to host the summit in Indore in line with his initiative to move international conferences out of Delhi.
 
 It is not yet clear what reason Pakistan has cited to withdraw from the conference. In fact, Pakistan sources suggested that the final decision from Islamabad may still be awaited.
 
 It may be worth recalling here that India had in 2015 threatened to boycott a conference of Speakers organized under the Commonwealth Parliamentary Union after Pakistan refused to invite the Speaker of J&K assembly. Pakistan later called off the event saying that since Kashmir was a disputed territory, it had become impossible to host the Commonwealth conference in Pakistan.
 
 Pakistan’s Sartaj Aziz, who is the de facto foreign minister of the country, had in December 2016 attended the Heart of Asia conference in Amritsar. Islamabad is currently awaiting a response from India over its demand that India release 33 of its prisoners who have served their sentences here.
 
 Pakistan wants India to respond positively to its decision to release Indian Army soldier Babulal Chavan and also to the release of over 200 Indian fishermen last year on the birthday of its PM Nawaz Sharif.
 
 With tensions having eased at the LoC and international boundary, Pakistan believes that now is the time to restart the process of re-engagement in line with the comprehensive bilateral dialogue the 2 countries agreed to in December 2015. In the absence of any progress in both Mumbai and Pathankot attack investigations though, India is unlikely to enter into any bilateral dialogue with Islamabad other than that on terrorism.
 
