HYDERABAD: Have the birds in India, particularly poultry, adapted to the deadly  ? Recent trends in the outbreak of   in different parts of the country have led experts to believe that the H5N1 virus may not pose much danger to human or veterinary health any more.

 “There could be a possibility that poultry birds might run only sub-clinical infections, not warranting culling,” said Dr  , veterinary expert and senior director at the International Centre for Diarrheal Disease Research, Bangladesh, and research professor at the  . “We do not see any major issue as spurts in bird flu have become a routine affair. If sub-clinical infections mean that poultry birds would evolve resistance, this is a huge success for the industry,” he added.
 
 Avian flu viruses have evolved tolerance to the high body temperatures (105 degree Fahrenheit) of chicken and other birds. It is this ‘die-hard character’ of the virus that makes it dangerous for humans, Ahmed said. However, he added that most bird flu epidemics are linked to migratory birds. Thus, there is no cause for panic in the country as Indians generally do not keep exotic birds as pets. The other strain of bird flu (H5N8) circulates mostly in Europe. “Since direct access of the public to migratory and poultry birds is rather limited, the scenario of a full-fledged epidemic is not foreseen in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana or other parts of India,” he said. Referring to the frantic research to find a common flu vaccine, Ahmed suggested that efforts should be made to use the birds that survived flu as genetic stocks for breeding. 
 
 “This way, resistant lines could be developed in a few generations. Poultry breeders must try this out,” he said. Not all flu viruses at all times pose fatal consequences and not all birds react similarly to every infection episode. Therefore, culling recommendations designed based on ‘one size fits all’ formula are very detrimental to the morale of poultry industry in India. Given this, it is essential to develop capacity to accurately identify and genotype the kind of viruses that emerge and re-emerge at different occasions and at different farms.
 
  “There should be a record or database of all different virus types that have been historically encountered in a given geographical area and based on the experience, the control strategies such as ‘bird-flu forecasting algorithms’ could be designed. Such algorithms should be based on machine learning tools that could incorporate data on virus genotypes, bird lineage type, morbidity and mortality data of past episodes, geo-climatic and seasonal data as well as other parameters such as risk factors in the form of migratory birds etc,” he suggested. Real time surveillance system for bird-flu epidemics is the most cutting-edge approach that the industry could invest in. Given the IT expertise available in this region, such a prediction platform is very much possible. “I think our group at the University of Hyderabad could possibly venture into this type of a programme with the support of poultry and IT industry,” he said.
 
