KOZHIKODE: CPM politburo member   on Saturday reminded "some constituents in the LDF" that they are not in the opposition. 

 He was responding to reporters who pointed out the remarks of M A Baby-also a CPM politburo member-and CPI state secretary   on the police action against the relatives of the late  .
 
 "M A Baby has made only some general comments. But some other constituents of the LDF should remember that they are not in the opposition," Karat said in an apparent reference to Rajendran.
 
 Both Baby and Rajendran had criticized the police action. On the frequent CPI remarks against the LDF government, Karat said the issue would be discussed with the leaders of that party.
 
 Justifying the government's action in the Jishnu Pranoy case, Karat said the government acted promptly and effectively in the issue.
 
 "A few more things have to be done, including the arrest of the remaining accused," he said, adding that the government had not done anything wrong and there was no need for covering up anything.
 
 The CPM leadership has not directed the removal DGP Loknath Behera from the office of the state police chief. Karat said the CPM did not discuss the posting of police officers.
 
 "We met recently and examined the overall performance of the LDF government," he said.
 
 Karat answered in the negative when asked if the LDF government's performance would reflect in the Malappuram byelection results.
 
 "There will not be any direct reflection. Malappuram is a constituency that has many peculiar characteristics," he said.
 
 The CPM leader said Central government had surreptitiously introduced the amendments to the finance bill to smuggle in certain changes that would have far-reaching consequences.
 
 "The government has lifted the provision that corporates can give only 7.5% of their profit to political parties. After the amendment, corporates can now donate any amount to parties," he said.
 
 Karat said by setting up the   the government has abdicated its duty of fixing the fares. "It will lead to frequent rise in railway fares and ultimately to the privation of the Indian Railways," he said.
 
