NAGPUR: Former revenue minister and state BJP stalwart Eknath   is reported to have made a U-turn to wriggle out of the land grab charges he is facing. The former minister reached here on Wednesday morning and spent over two hours at the Ravi Bhavan office of the Dinkar Zoting judicial commission inquiring into allegations of illegal transfer of MIDC land at Bhosari in Pune district in the name of his wife and son-in-law.

 In his deposition on Wednesday before the commission, Khadse is reported to have claimed he was totally unaware of the land transaction. This claim amounted to reversing of his earlier stand that the said land was not government property but purchased from private owner Rasool Ukani. Now Khadse has said he was not aware of the deal till June 6, 2016.
 
 Khadse had resigned from the government on June 4 last year following the probe ordered by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. The former minister was accused of conflict of interests while facilitating transfer of the said MIDC land for a price of Rs 3.75 crore to his wife Mandakini and son-in-law Girish Chaudhari. The opposition accused him of misuse of office as minister as the said land’s market price was in range of Rs 40 crore.
 
 Khadse was cross-examined by MIDC counsel Chandrashekhar Jaltare who asked him the reason for resigning from minister post on June 4 when he was not aware of the deal on that date. The ex-minister maintained that it was a political conspiracy against him and that he had done nothing wrong. He also claimed that as revenue minister, he had no control on MIDC land so there was no question of conflict of interest. Khadse said his wife and son-in-aw were independent entities and free to purchase land without his consent and that Mandakini had paid by cheque from her bank account.
 
 Judge (retd) Zoting also posed a couple of probing questions. He is likely to ask a few more on February 27, the next date of hearing. Zoting commission was initially asked to complete probe in three months but its term had to be extended thrice as it could not complete the work and prepare its report.
 
