City sailors made a big impression at the recently concluded   (leg 1) and Youth Nationals held in Chennai by winning six medals. Having returned home with three bronze and three silver medals from the twin championships, where they competed against 120 compatriots from 16-countries, the gang of five sailors —  ,  ,  ,   and   — have set their sights on winning a gold medal at the leg-2 of the Youth Cup slated to take place in Hong Kong from February 15. 
“It was the first time we competed with such talented sailors from around the world. So it was great to win the medals. But we also realised where we lag behind our peers from other countries — physical fitness. So we’ve hit the gym with a vengeance and trained hard to be ready for Hong Kong,” says 14-year-old Juhi, a class IX student of  , who won the bronze medal at the Youth Nationals in the laser 4.7 category Under 17.
 Having learned the ropes of the sport at Hussain Sagar, getting to ride the choppy waters of the   was a huge learning experience says K Gautham. “We landed in Chennai 10 days prior to the competition to get accustomed to the huge wavess. It was unnerving initially, but gradually the confidence levels grew. It will come in handy as we will be sailing in the waters of South China sea in Hong Kong,” reckons the Begumpet resident who is studying class X in Udbhav School.
 The youngest member of the team, 11-year-old Sachin B echoes similar sentiments. “When I saw the waves for the first time from the beach, I was so scared. But when I got into the water, I got a lot more confident.” says Sachin, who won silver medals in the optimist green category at both the Nationals as well as the ASAF Cup. 
 Juhi’s elder brother Tanishq, who fell agonisingly short of winning a medal and ended up in the fourth position in the Youth Nationals, hopes if they can win medals at Hong Kong, they will help popularise the sport in Hyderabad. 
 “A lot of my friends are scared of sailing. Yes, it’s risky but there are proper safeguards and measures that are taken to make sure the risk is removed. I hope we can inspire more of our friends to take up the sport because honestly, it’s a lot of fun,” he says signing off. 
 
