NEW DELHI: The   ( ) has slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over what it called a conspiracy to derecognise the party, warning it against questioning Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.

 Soon after sacked Delhi Water Minister   alleged on Sunday that the AAP lied about its donation figures to the Election Commission (EC), AAP leader   told mediapersons "this is a conspiracy by BJP to derecognise Aam Aadmi Party". 
 
 Times Now tweeted on Sunday, the former Delhi minister, Kapil Mishra, was singing to BJP’s tunes.
 
 Reacting to Mishra's revelations, AAP MLA Sanjeev Jha challenged him to come out with proofs about Kejriwal allegedly taking money from Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain.
 
 Jain, who has been accused of giving Rs 2 crore to Kejriwal by AAP lawmaker Mishra, had protested his innocence and dared Mishra to produce evidence to back his allegations.
 
 "You are trying to hide the inability to come out with facts by spreading white lies," Jha said, adding, if he can't provide proofs, the AAP leader and the countrymen would expose all those out to defame the party.
 
 
 
 Mishra alleged that the AAP lied about its donation figures to the Election Commission (EC), IANS adds.
 
 Mishra alleged that the AAP had over Rs 45 crore in its bank account during the financial year of 2013-2014 whereas the party in its declaration to the EC had showed an income of around Rs 9 crore.
 
 Mishra alleged that the party concealed around Rs 36 crore from the party workers and government.
 
 He said the party has accumulated the money through shell companies.
 
 Mishra made a presentation during the press conference claiming false information was given by the AAP to the EC regarding its bank accounts, and, subsequently converted black money into white through hawala transactions.
 
 The former minister has been on an indefinite hunger strike since Wednesday at his official residence here, demanding that chief minister Arvind Kejriwal must reveal the source of funding of the foreign trips of five Aam Aadmi Party leaders -- Sanjay Singh, Ashish Khetan, Raghav Chadhha, Satyendra Jain and Durgesh Pathak -- in the last two years.
 
 Mishra was sacked on May 6 in a sudden move and later was also suspended from the party.
 
