AMARAVATI: Expressing happiness over having the first   in bifurcated AP,   N   promised to develop the state into one of the most sought after places in the country. 

 Naidu said that even though grave injustice was done to AP by the former central government, he was delighted at the prospect of having the assembly session on home soil. He hoped that the new assembly will become the place where people-friendly legislations and growth policies are passed. The CM reviewed key developmental projects with senior officials, a day before the budget session, here on Sunday.
 
 Speaking to officials via teleconference, the chief minister said many vital projects have been started and completing them is the only way forward for the state to grow. He said the capitals city's name Amaravati has already trended on a number of social media platforms across the world and after the big-ticket projects are finished the state will become one of the top cities in the country. "To be honest, I want the state to be one of the top five cities in the world. Work towards achieving our goals," he directed the officials.
 
 He said designs of the government structures in the capital city are in their final phase and that works would start once all the lose ends are tied. He said great care is being taken to give final touches to the capital city structures as the government wants assembly, Raj Bhavan and high court buildings to be iconic.
 
 He said arrival of top universities in the country has resulted in many other world-class institutions approaching the government for space. He said presence of global institutions would not only help the local students get good education but also generate massive employment. When CRDA commissioner Sreedhar Cherukuri brought up The  's (TERI) interest to join hands with the state, the CM said this development reflects the state's growing image.
 
 The CM directed the principle secretary of infrastructure and investment Ajay Jain to make elaborate arrangements for the conduct of Fintec International Summit in Visakhapatnam. He said   (ADB) had signed an MoU with the Centre to give Rs 2,500 crore for the Visakhapatnam-Chennai Industrial Corridor project. He said plans were afoot to develop Bangalore-Chennai industrial corridor which will go through AP. "The development of two corridors will surely help the state catch several big-ticket projects," the CM said.
 
 
