Shyama S, a 25-year-old transsexual woman who has just completed her M.Ed, was part of the one day transgender (TG) sports meet held in Trivandrum on April 28. 

 It was the first time she was hitting the track, she says, something she had always shied away from during her school days. “I participated for the relay, representing team Trivandrum. Though we won only second position, I am super excited as I won a silver medal in a race that I participated for the first time in my life,” says Shyama, adding that she always loved taking part in races. “However, I used to avoid them during my school days as other kids would make fun of my female identity. Here, there was nothing for us to shy away from,” she says. 
 
 Beating the scorching summer heat, the group showcased a spirited performance in the events. The meet was the first of its kind in the country, organised by the Kerala State Sports Council, in association with Sexual and Gender Minority Federation of Kerala. Held at the Central Stadium, more than 140 participants from 12 districts locked horns in six events — sprint in 100m, 200m, 400m, 4x100m relay, shot put and long jump. The initiative, say the organisers, is an effort to break the stigma surrounding the TG community in our society. The community, on the other hand, say that the event was truly an opportunity for them to come to the forefront. “Many among us are active in the field of arts, but sports was forbidden to us due to discrimination. Let this be an opening window for the hidden sports talents among us,” says Shyama. 
 
 The event had also a spot registration counter for those interested. A total of 19 participants from Trivandrum showcased their talents. Coach Jagadeesh P says, “The team is very active and are good runners. As they are not regular athletes, we included only six common events this time. The pre-meet training sessions helped their body get used to the sports movements.” 
 
  Says D Mohanan, president of Thiruvananthapuram District Sports Council. “We arranged transportation facilities for the participants from each district who were accompanied by the respective district sports council coach. They were also provided with special dormitories. Next year we plan to widen the categories and include district level competitions.” Olympian Mercy Kuttan, vice-president of Kerala Sports Council adds, “This is the first ever event of its kind. It will be held as an annual event in the coming years.”
 
  The highlight of the event was the way non-participant transgender members cheered for each performance. With a total of 22 points Malappuram district became the champions followed by Kannur in second place with 14 points.
 
 
