NASHIK: The police have started conducting   in the city after witnessing rise in   and   across the city.

 Officials said that combing operations would be a regular feature in the future to keep criminals under check. Informing more in this regard, senior officials of the police department said they recently took up combing operation in different parts of the city where in they not only checked criminals but also the checked various hotels and lodges, apart from taking action against errant motorists in the city.
 
 The officials said they conducted a combing operation on Wednesday between 9 pm and 11 pm in various parts of the city. Apart from the combing operation, the police also set up nakabandi (check points) in different parts of the city.
 
 Sachin Gore, assistant commissioner of police, said, “Two DCPs, two ACPs, 12 senior police inspectors, 28 other police officials and 156 constables were part of the combing operation that was held on Wednesday night.”
 
 He added, “The idea was to visit places of criminal activities, mainly slums, and other places where criminals reside. Criminals are caught unaware during such operations and the police also take stock of criminal activities.”
 
 Officials said the criminals realise their activities are being monitored following which they refrain from illegal activities. “We checked 84 habitual criminals and also checked if externed criminals were back into the city and residing secretly,” an officer said.
 
 Meanwhile, the police also checked 58 hotels and lodges across the city to find out if criminals were taking shelter at such places. “During nakabandi, we found 70 errant rickshaw drivers and slapped them with fine. Further, 33 people were booked under different sections of the Bombay Police Act,” the officer added.
 
 Also, in a bid to bring down the rate of house break-ins, the police asked residents of various societies to install closed circuit television ( ) cameras, keep money, jewellery and other valuable articles in bank lockers instead of leaving them home while going out of station.
 
 “Do not give personal information about one’s bank account to any person calling on phone, keep your vehicles parked in safe places and properly locked and contact the nearest police station if some a person in civil dress claims to be a police officer and want to frisk you,” said a police officer.
 
 He added that police personnel would never ask anyone to remove their jewellery and in case someone was asking to do so, then citizens should realise that he is a conman. 
 
