PANAJI: It was more nervy than anyone would have liked or even anticipated but Goa can finally celebrate their astonishing record at home.
 
  For the third successive time, Goa managed to seal a place in the final of the   for the   when playing at home, never mind a jittery second half when Kerala threw everything at them at the  , Bambolim, on Thursday.
  
  In the end, Goa survived, and had young striker   to thank as the hosts put it across Kerala 2-1 for a place in the final. Goa had reached the final during the two previous editions of the Santosh Trophy played at home – 1990 and 1996.
  
  Backed by a vociferous home crowd, Liston scored both goals for Goa in an opening half dominated by the hosts, but Kerala fought back with a 61st minute strike from Rahul Raj. Kerala played some delightful football and had Goa pinned in their own half for most part after the change of ends but the hosts lived to fight another day.
  
  Goa will now meet Bengal in the final on Sunday.
  
  The evening undoubtedly belonged to Liston, the young striker from Salgaocar FC. He was under considerable pressure going without scoring for the last three matches, but in the semifinals he showed just why Goa has been raving about him.
  
  His first strike came in the 14th minute when a through ball from the crafty Leander D’Cunha saw Brian Mascarenhas intercept on the left and create an opening for Liston, who kept his cool and slotted it past Kerala goalkeeper Midhun V.
  
  Goa then quickly set about showing everyone why they deserve a place in the final. It was Liston again who did the damage, this time with a sublime finish that would have even made Goa’s most famous striker – Bruno Coutinho, seated in the stands – proud. The striker received a ball from Leander on the right and it seemed there was no clear opening. Liston, though, had other ideas; he simply used the step-over to leave his marker, captain Sherin Sam, for dead and then beat the goalkeeper with a grounder from an acute angle.
  
  Kerala have fought back from a two-goal deficit earlier in the tournament and they grew in confidence after pulling a goal back in the 61st minute. Partly, it was due to the sustained pressure created with the inclusion of Usman P in attack, but on hindsight goalkeeper Bruno Colaco should have done better with his clearance. The goalkeeper’s weak punch from a corner-kick allowed Rahul an easy header and Kerala suddenly believed they could get more.
  
  Lijo’s long throw-ins always created panic in the Goa danger zone and Jobby Justin was proving to be a slippery customer. But fortunately for the hosts, captain Peter Carvalho was in the form of his life. He marshalled the defence admirably and took Goa to the doorstep of another famous title.
  
