BHOPAL: Seven days after she was raped and assaulted, the 70-year-old woman from Chhindwara district died while undergoing treatment at a hospital in Nagpur on Sunday.

 As the news of her death spread, villagers attempted to block National Highway 47 and sought compensation for the deceased. They alleged that though the accused is under arrest, cops have not booked him for   nor he has been charged under the SC & ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Police, however, claimed that the accused has been booked for rape after the woman gave her statement.
 
 The incident took place at Bothia village under Pandurna block of the district on April 2.
 
 The woman, who hailed from a poor family, was alone at her house when the accused, identified as  , 26, and a resident of the same village barged into her house and raped her, said police. The accused was in an inebriated state and assaulted the old woman and left her unconscious, police said.
 
 “She was severely injured and was not in a condition to record her statement. That is why, initially, a case of assault was registered against Jitendra. She was immediately referred to Nagpur for treatment. Later on April 4, when she gained some consciousness, she informed about the rape and a case was lodged. On April 5, the accused was arrested and sent to jail,” Pandurna police station in-charge, Raghunath Khatarkar told TOI.
 
 Khatarkar said, “The villagers are demanding a proper compensation for the deceased. There are provisions for compensation and the family of the deceased woman is eligible for it. But, some legal formalities need to be completed”.
 
 The villagers, however, alleged that no medical-aid was provided for the treatment and the rape case was never registered.
 
 “Police and the local administration were casual in their approach and no efforts were taken to ensure the treatment of the woman. Her family members had a trying time and took her to Nagpur for treatment and had to arrange money,” advocate Sadhna Bhargav, a member of National Nasha Mukti Andolan, who was also present during the protests told TOI.
 
 “The government should provide immediate financial assistance to her family members so that they could at least perform the last rites with some honour,” Bhargava said.
 
