BHUBANESWAR: Coming under the radar of the   (NGT) for not taking adequate steps to dispose plastic waste, the   municipality in Subarnapur district has filed an affidavit with the green panel assuring it that it will make the town free of plastic waste after the end of ongoing panchayat polls. 

 The NGT will hear the case again on March 27. Based on the the petition of noted green campaigner Ghasiram Panda, the NGT had asked the municipality to file an affidavit that would assure the green body that it is to take steps for making the town free of plastic waste. 
 
 "The petitioner has alleged that plastic waste is being burnt in open spaces, leading to ambient air of the town getting increasingly polluted. The open burning of waste is a violation of Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 and   Rules, 2016," said the petitioner's lawyer Sankar Pani. 
 
 The petitioner further mentioned in the document that open burning of plastic waste leaves toxic and carcinogenic substances like furans and dioxins scattered in the environment. "The Plastic Waste Management and Handling Rules of 2016, puts a blanket ban on manufacturing, stock and distribution of plastic carry bags of less than 50 micron thickness. But the municipality has not been able to enforce such a complete   in the town yet," Pani said.
 
 Earlier, the NGT had sought explanations from the Subarnapur district collector, the executive officer, the Sonepur municipality secretary, the Urban and Housing Development department and the member secretary of Odisha State Pollution Control Board (OSPCB) on the allegation that plastic waste was being thrown into the Mahanadi river in Sonepur town. 
 
 There was also reported discharge of untreated waste water into the river that needed attention by municipality. 
 
 An NGT spokesperson had said, "Prima facie, specific provisions of Plastic Waste (Management and Handling)Rules, 2011 has been violated. There is also substantial question of breach of environmental laws." 
 
 Petitioner Panda had brought to the notice of the NGT how municipal sewage of Sonepur town meets a major drain near Tikirapada which joins the Mahanadi that passes through the town. 
 
  "The non-recyclable plastic waste are laced with metal and other thermoset plastic. They pose a major threat to the environment. The Mahandi is the life line of the town, with many people depending on it for bathing and more importantly, for drinking water," said Pani quoting the petitioner's earlier complaint. 
 
 
