PATNA: The state capital witnessed 49.1mm of rainfall since Friday morning leading to   and   in several parts of the city. Students and daily commuters were the worst sufferers as they had to wade through   to reach their respective destinations.

 The situation was grim at some of the city schools where campuses turned into virtual pools. Brother Satheesh K Don, principal of Loyola High School, said rainwater entered the school premises, much to the discomfort of students, parents and teachers. “If the water is not drained out from the campus, the school will remain closed on Saturday,” he said. Same was the situation at other schools in Kurji, Pataliputra and Digha localities, such as DAV Public School, Krishna Niketan, International School, St Michael’s High School and St Dominic Savio’s High School.
 
 Heavy rain also caused overflowing of drain water in densely-populated low-lying residential localities, such as Kadamkuan, Lohanipur, Rajendra Nagar, Jakkanpur, Gardanibagh, Kankerbagh, Ashok Nagar, Hanuman Nagar, Punaichak, Anandpuri, Nehru Nagar, Chandmari and S K Puri.
 
 “We will pump out water from prime localities and low-lying areas by midnight,” a senior   official said, adding water has already been removed from the main roads. “We are using water pumps in several localities to remove the water,” the official added.
 
 Knee-deep water near St Xavier’s High School and Bankipore Girl’s High School caused trouble to kids. Commuters travelling on roads witnessing flyover construction work also faced problems due to puddles and  .
 
 Shruti Parth Singh, a student of Rabindra Balika Inter College, Rajendra Nagar, said, “The school was dismissed early due to waterlogging. The situation was worse as drain water also entered the school campus.”
 
 Hari Prasad Singh, a resident of Nala Road, said, “I could not go to office due to waterlogging. It was not possible to drive car on the waterlogged road and the rickshaws were also not available.”
 
 For residents of Rajendra Nagar, waterlogging during monsoon is nothing new. Gayatri Sinha, a local, said, “I have no other option but to go out and buy necessary items from the market by wading through knee-deep water.”
 
 
