CHANDIGARH: A wedding in   is all set to give tough competition to the   reputation of holding the grandest weddings. The countdown to the big, fat   wedding of the politically influential   family's scion, MP  , has begun. Come April 18, the young parliamentarian will be tying the nuptial knot with Meghna Ahlawat, who he got engaged to in January.

 The wedding celebrations will begin at the family's village, Chautala, on April 11 and end with a grand reception at a five-star hotel in Delhi on April 20. The guest list includes President Pranab Mukherjee, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union ministers, chief ministers of various states, parliamentarians and other VIPs.
 
 Giving details, sources close to the family said Dushyant's grandmother Sneh Lata would host a community feast for the people of Chautala and three adjoining villages on April 11. People from Dabawali constituency of Sirsa district, from where Dushyant's mother Naina Singh Chautala is  , have also been invited.
 
 On April 13, a grand lunch will be organized at a stadium in Sirsa. For this, the Chautala family has invited the leaders of workers of its political party, Indian National Lok Dal (INLD). Sources said around 1.5 lakh people were expected to attend the lunch at Sirsa — the family's hometown.
 
 The "sangeet" ceremony will be held at Dushyant's Sirsa residence. Family members and relatives are expected to attend the event. On April 18, Dushyant will marry Meghna, a history honours graduate from Delhi and daughter of Anuja and Paramjit Singh Ahlawat (IPS officer from Haryana), in the presence of close family members and relatives at an upscale hotel in Gurugram.
 
 The week-long celebrations will culminate with the reception on April 20.
 
 Sources also confirmed that Dushyant has planned a party at his new residence in Gurugram for his close friends on April 16. 
 
 Some of his friends from the US, where he had studied during his graduation and from Lawrence School, Sanawar, where he had done his schooling, are expected to attend the party. Dushyant's mother, Naina, said the wedding had such a vast itinerary because they wanted the young couple to be blessed by all. "We can't forget our roots in the village. Party leaders and workers are our family; they stood by us in every crucial moment," she said.
 
