THOUBAL: The dust has settled and parties wait with bated breath for the final outcome of the close contest the state witnessed. For rights activist  , looking back at the election, her party -   (PRJA) - has achieved  .

 On the last day of the gruelling election, Sharmila was seen making her way across Thoubal, asking people, "Ei Irom Sharmilane, PRJA gi candidate, vote tha da-birabro? (I'm Irom Sharmila, a candidate from PRJA, have you cast your vote?)"
 
 Supporters of other contesting parties had set up make-shift camps along the road near the polling stations. No such camp for PRJA was seen.
 
 But the Iron Lady of Manipur, nevertheless, waved her hands and smiled at the workers of rival parties. Her gesture was returned with deep honour and respect. The day, incidentally, was  .
 Many people came out and shook her hands. "Sharmila, you are a great lady and, one day, you will win the nation," a supporter said.
 
 For Sharmila, it was all too humbling. "Our party is just five months old and we have received tremendous support from the people across the world. Our political journey had humble beginnings. It was not about money and power for us," Sharmila told TOI an hour after the polling ended. "Taking into account our true and openhearted journey, we have achieved moral victory," she added.
 
 The whistle became a ubiquitous presence on Wednesday as Sharmila blew the whistle outside polling booths. The whistle is the symbol of her party.
 
 Whistleblowing has been her party's major concern, as projected in the campaigning. On February 23, the party had stunned other parties after three of its candidates - party convener Erendro Leichombam and co-conveners Sharmila and Najima Bibi - had signed affidavits before the oath commissioner swearing that they would maintain transparency on fund allocation if they were to be elected.
 
 Erendro contested from the prestigious Thangmeiband constituency in Imphal West while Najima joined the fray from the Wabagai seat. Erendro, who accompanied Sharmila during Wednesday's trip, also felt PRJA's popularity will continue to rise.
 
 "Eche (elder sister) Najima Bibi is the first Muslim woman to contest the Manipur assembly polls and eche Sharmila has jumped into the Thoubal seat to take on three-time chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh. They (Sharmila and Najima) are the icons of the tireless and fearless fight for women's rights and human rights in Manipur," said Erendro, a Harvard University alumnus.
 
 "People from across the world donated money for our electoral fight against AFSPA and to bring about the true essence of democracy in Manipur. We have also signed affidavits for fund transparency if we are elected. Hence, we achieved moral victory," Erendro added.
 
 "As today coincided with International Women's Day, I'm proud of eche Sharmila and eche Najima as their ultimate electoral fight for people's justice fell on this day," he said.
 Besides Sharmila and Ibobi, L Bashanta Singh aka Bhim of BJP, AITC's L Suresh and Independent AK Manglemjao are also in the fray for Thoubal.
 
