Mumbai: A day after the tragic   at  , TOI spoke to a cross-section of suburban railway   to find what changes they seek for a safe commute. While the commuters were vociferous about their demands, they said they feel helpless in the face of the “authorities’ apathy”. 

 Theatre director Feroz Khan, who occasionally commutes by train, said, “For so long commuters have suffered without protest. Now, it seems death alone will voice their protests. Somehow, silence is interpreted as consent.” Khan added that nothing short of public demonstrations for civic issues will bring about the long-awaited change.
 
 Commuters say it is most essential for each station master to monitor real-time   footage—and relay advisories in case of emergency. “Why do you have all this CCTV footage if you won’t use it to help people? Why not dispel rumours, instruct people to stop where they are and avoid panic?” said Dawood Shah at Andheri.
 
 He pointed out how   are patronized by corrupt authorities that causes further overcrowding. “It is not just the space they occupy. They gather buyers around them at crucial entry and exit points. Look at Andheri or Dadar.”
 
 Besides narrow   and crammed entry and exit points, commuters point to overcrowding as the biggest problem. “There is no non-peak hour anymore. Barring a few hours in the day the crowd is only increasing,” said Vaneeta Patil, a regular commuter between Borivli and Dadar.
 
 Jayesh Mehta, a cloth wholesaler who works at Crawford Market, has been taking the Titwala fast from CSMT for 15 years. “A few years back, we used to wait to take the train after 10pm, which would be relatively less crowded. Today, even if I get into a train post 10:30pm, it is packed before Dadar.” 
 
 Women commuters also suggest 24/7   presence. “It would help women feel safer,” said Rishika Iyer.
 
 Jenil Doshi who often commutes from Mulund to Kurla said he has written to local authorities but to no avail. “In Kurla, Ghatkopar and Thane, the roof is broken in places, benches are absent and wires hang loose over metal poles that cause sparks. There is a real danger of electrocution during rains. Is there a blueprint for clearing waterlogged tracks and improving infrastructure?” Andheri’s Shahid Akhtar said metro is seldom flooded due to its wide concourse. “Why can’t our 150-year-old suburban network achieve this?”
 
