Mumbai’s   (CSMVS), went out of its way, literally, to give   a peek into the highlights of its amazing collection. On the occasion of International Museum Day yesterday, a ‘mini museum’ on wheels — a bus ( Citi-CSMVS 
  on Wheels) — with a chosen collection of artefacts hit the city’s streets. While it’s common for the authorities to take the mobile museum to schools across Mumbai, this is the first time the aam janta got a darshan of it. 

 And, must say, they loved it. People across age-groups queued up to see the exhibition, titled ‘As It Happened’ — a literal translation of the Sanskrit word ‘Itihas’, which means history. 
 
 The Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya (CSMVS), situated in South Mumbai, houses a 60,000-strong multicultural collection of artefacts from Asia and Europe. 
 
 
 
 Parked at key locations across the city, right from High Street Phoenix, Lower Parel and   to Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus, the exhibition opened at 10 am, and was on till 8 in the evening. 
 Bilwa Kulkarni, Education Officer, CSMVS, said, “We chose these popular spots so that a wide range of audiences could access it. Every year, nearly 3,500-4,000 visitors throng the museum to participate in various activities, which are held on the day.” 
 
 About the unique initiative, she added, “Basically, it is an attempt to take our history and culture into people’s midst. Our motto was, ‘If you can’t come to the museum, the museum will come to you’. We have been celebrating this day for the last seven years or so. What made it special this year was that we had a double celebration. Apart from taking to the roads with the bus, we also organised various quick-to-do art and craft activities on the bus and at CSMVS.” 
 
 
 
 While grown-ups gave their thumbs up to the initiative, children were most excited about it. Yashashri Surve, a 10-year-old student of class V, said, “I can relate to most of what I saw here because it’s part of my syllabus. I loved it.” Her mother added, “I am glad that My daughter and I could attend this. Now we will surely go to the CSMVS.” 
 Siddharth, a theatre artiste, confessed that he had never been to the museum. “This is a great way to bring the museum out to the people.Though it is just a minuscule part of the actual collection, it was an amazing experience,” he enthused. Azmat 14, and   10, learnt block printing, while their younger cousins stood by and watched in awe. Much to their delight, the children were also allowed to touch the exhibits on the bus, which is not allowed at the actual museum. Rashid Sheikh, a resident of Bhindi Bazar who works in Phoenix Mills, lauded the initiative. “Many people don’t go to the Museum despite staying in Town. They will get an opportunity to see it today,” he noted. 
 
 
 
 The workshops and demonstrations were in keeping with the theme this year, ‘Arts of the World’. The free-of-charge and open-for-all activities were held on the bus as well as the museum premises.
 The activities included Shibori Tye and Dye, Islamic Tile Making, Khokhloma, Egyptian Jewellery Making, Torma Making, Make Your Own Miniature Painting, Trade Route Quiz and Storytelling Sessions.
 Artist Ramesh Hengadi demonstrated   mural paintings, and taught visitors how to make their own Warli paintings. At the storytelling workshop, children were encouraged to craft fun stories about some artefacts on display in the bus. There were also special guided tours every hour.
 
 Bilwa said, “Through this programme, we aim to create an understanding of the fact that museums are an important means of cultural exchange.” 
 
 
