VADODARA: The   (OPaL) has commissioned its mega petrochemical complex at   and started production in some of its units. The plant that was to be made operational in 2014 had been marred by several delays along with cost escalation. 

 However, the 1,100 kTPA capacity dual feed cracker unit, known as the mother plant, has been operational and last week it delivered its first consignment of about 40 tonnes of polymer to an Ahmedabad-based company. 
 
 “This is like a dream come true for OPaL and its shareholders. My team and I struggled a lot over last two years to commission the mother cracker plant. When I took over as the CEO in 2014, the biggest challenge was the lack of coordination among the stakeholders apart from some logistical issues. We were able to address all the problems with the support of the board, especially OPaL chairman  ,” said K Satyanarayana, CEO, OPaL.
 
 OPaL is setting up a grassroot mega petrochemical project at Dahej as a part of the India’s first Petroleum,   (PCPIR).
 
 OPaL would be ramping up its capacity in the coming months. “We are currently operating the polypropylene unit at 50 per cent capacity. But in about four months, the plant will operate at 100 per cent of its capacity of 340 kilotonnes per annum. The polyethylene plant too will operate at full capacity from the current 50 per cent production within few months,” Satyanarayana told TOI. 
 
 He added that PM   is expected to inaugurate the plant this month. Despite the delays, Satyanarayana is confident that there will never be a dearth of business. 
 
 “The market for polymer is huge in India and it is growing by 12 to 13 per cent every year. With commissioning of OPaL plant, there is considerable addition to India’s polymer production capacity. We want to become market leader in polyethylene. Exports will also happen in coming years,” he added. 
 
 When asked about plans to sell some stake in OPaL, Satyanarayana said that they are in talks with a company in the middle-east but nothing has been finalized as of now. 
 
 
