MUMBAI:   had come in for scathing criticism from the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) in 2016 for delays in executing   on the   —32 on Central Railway and 21 on Western Railway— which not only led to cost increases but also endangered the safety of lakhs of commuters. A year later, little progress has been made on the projects that were either slow-moving or stalled. 

 Works under the   in particular, which involve replacement of rakes and crucially the segregation of the mail /express and suburban corridors by laying additional lines on Central Railway and Western Railway are nowhere close to completion although it was hoped that progress would be made at least after the CAG’s censure. The CAG had in its August 2016 report on Mumbai, which reviewed works between 2010 and 2015, noted that “status of works in CR revealed that out of 43 undertaken on the Mumbai suburban (network), there was time overrun in respect of 26 of them ranging from one month to 69 months as compared to the original target date of completion.”
 
 Six other works, the report said, were incomplete though the deadline had passed, taking the total number of projects delayed on CR to 32. And “in 13 works, there was cost overrun ranging between Rs2.87 lakh ((108.70 percent) to Rs 23.81 crore (191.07 percent) as compared to initial estimated cost.”
 
 On WR, it found “time and cost overrun in all the 21 projects” it examined, with an increase in costs of Rs7.29 crore.
 
 One year on, the cost of MUTP-II, sanctioned in 2008, has further gone up. While the original cost was Rs5,300 crore, it is now Rs7,300 crore. MUTP II includes works such as the  , the   and Parel Terminus, and the fifth and sixth line between Kurla-Parel and Bandra-Mumbai.
 
 On   too, which includes  , a new suburban corridor between   
 
 and the Airoli-Kalwa link, among other things such as procurement of AC rakes, there has been no forward movement as estimates are yet to be prepared and sanctioned by the zonal railways and a formal loan agreement is yet to be signed with the World Bank.
 
 On the CST-Panvel corridor, which will ease pressure on the harbour line, the funding pattern is still to be approved. And as far as the WR elevated corridor goes, there are differences between the state government and the railways on bearing the cost of the project in case of delay in getting a clear right of way.
 
 Rail Yatri Sangh’s Subash Gupta said, “The CAG’s observations about the poor pace of work are spot on. The report was made public a year ago, but very little has changed on the ground.”
 
 Former Railway Board member Subodh Jain alleged, “There are officers in the board who consider officials working for the good of the Mumbai suburban network as villains. They are least interested in Mumbai’s network and would like it see its slow and natural death. However, they do not understand that this cannot happen as it is the lifeline of the city.” He also accused board officials of deliberately delaying sanction for Mumbai’s projects.
 
 Another official who did not wish to be named said, “Each and every paisa the Mumbai Rail Vikas Corporation spends (on developing railway infrastructure) has to be sanctioned by the board. Why should the board interfere when MRVC has negotiated a loan with the World Bank and both the state government and MRVC are going to pay it through cess levied on commuters?”
 
 However, former railway board chairman Vivek Sahai said, “When I was the DRM, I had got the VT yard remodelled in 2001 at a cost of Rs1 crore with the approval of the GM. The officers at the divisional and general manager level have enough powers to get works executed. Nowadays, the officers are also too scared to take decisions as they fear getting embroiled in controversies.”
 
