Mukesh Kumar, Municipal Commissioner, Ahmedabad

 
 A World Heritage City really belongs to entire mankind, but connecting local communities, who are the principal stakeholders is essential. Various programmes such as heritage walks, heritage based cultural programmes, essay writing competitions, painting competitions for students, talks, to celebrate the WHC recognition will help in this.
 
 
 
 Repair or restoration of privately owned heritage buildings is the responsibility of their respective owners. Repair subsidy or grant-in-aid for conservation can be considered in future. TDR is an incentive for mobilising additional financial resources for upkeep of property. With the WHC status, TDR will certainly be the more preferred instrument. However, we are open to making TDR incentives more flexible. The WHC status will attract more business and tourists. We anticipate increasing   support for conservation and restoration. We want to involve more of civil society as well.
 
 
 
 The property owner can get benefit of TDR only once. TDR is issued under the provision of GDCR of Ahmedabad's Development Plan 2021 (second revised) as sanctioned by the state government.
 
 
 We will reconsider revival of the process of facilitating low-interest rate loans for repairs of heritage buildings, through HUDCO or any other bank.
 
 
 When any heritage property owner applies for availing TDR, a certificate is issued according to   (GDCR), on the recommendation of Heritage Conservation Committee (HCC). On commencement of repairs, 20% of total permissible tradable FSI is released and the remaining 80 % is released after satisfactory completion of restoration work, certified by HCC. The TDRC holder has to maintain the heritage character of the building and has to produce the certificate before the heritage department of AMC once every two years. The heritage department will have to verify that.
 
 
 
 Demolition of any building with heritage value will not be permitted. A strict watch will be kept to prevent this.
 
 
 We can request the state and   governments for special funding to revitalize the World Heritage City. Tax subsidies, especially property tax concessions can be considered by the AMC.Traffic management, parking issues in the old city will be given priority.
 
 
 
 As far as TDR is concerned, in case of multiple ownerships, all owners of heritage properties, according to the revenue records, will have to apply jointly to avail TDR for conservation of heritage property. The use of heritage property shall be permissible according to the provisions of GDCR, which includes Dwellings-1, 2 and 3; Business and Hospitality-1, as per GDCR norms.
 
 
 Ahmedabad's recognition as a World Heritage City is not a conditional one. However, we have given an undertaking that certain actions like detailed documentation of heritage buildings, preparation of Heritage Conservation Plan, Local Area Plan, strengthening of heritage department, impact assessment studies, visitor management plan etc, will be completed within a certain time limit. We have already launched a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) “Amdavad Heritage Management Society“ for this purpose. We are further setting up   to carry out various other functions related to WHC. Heritage experts from Cept and   are collaborating with us. We further intend to enlist experts from National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA) for heritage conservation and preparing a local area plan. It is the prerogative of ICOMOS, which is the technical wing of UNESCO, to visit any site, if they feel necessary.
 
