After taking part in a series of fun tasks, contestants of   were greeted by show host Tarak for the second week’s elimination 
 

  
 As the housemates are slowly easing into the show and are forging a bond with their initial rivals, especially  , who has finally given up weeping, the elimination news came as a bit of a shocker.
 
 Though everybody was aware Madhupriya was most likely to be evicted and that she herself wanted to get out of the house, she was taken aback when asked to pack her bags. It took her a minute or so to come to terms with the fact that she will no longer continue in the house as a participant.
 
 Before the elimination, footage from the previous day was aired. We saw Siva Balaji and Madhupriya chatting about her imminent elimination and if she still wants to leave the house.
 
 In the kitchen, Archana was mocked by Sameer, Dhanraj and Adarsh, who were trying to convince her to consider Prince as a suitor. While Archana laughed it off, Prince was seen despairing. He clearly did not like being part of the scene and expressed displeasure.
 
 All the inmates burst out in laughter when Tarak pointed at Mahesh Kathi for his unwillingness in helping with household chores. To make up for it, Tarak asked Mahesh to rustle up a chicken curry, which he appreciated after tasting, calling it ‘Kathi Chicken’.
 
 Meanwhile, a Game Of Thrones-ish throne was set up in the house for the villain of the Bigg Boss game. Inmates were asked to escort the ‘chosen one’ to the throne and explain why they chose them. Starting off, Archana named Kalpana as the villain. Later, Hari Teja, Prince, Dhanraj, Sameer, Mumaith Khan and Siva Balaji too, seconded Archana’s selection.
 
 Adarsh chose Dhanraj as the villain while Madhupriya, Kathi Mahesh and Kartheeka named Sameer. Interestingly, Kalpana pointed at Siva Balaji.
 
  
 As the episode drew to an end, an interesting update about the show was revealed. A special entrant would be added to the existing contestants in 
 
 
 
