Mumbai: After getting a beating from the   regarding application of the domicile policy in post-graduate admissions, the Directorate of   and Research ( ) is now drafting a proposal to implement the locals-only rule for undergraduate entry. 

 DMER will soon submit a policy to the state government to implement the domicile policy in private medical colleges. Barring the 15% all-India quota, the rule will be applicable to all. Moreover, earlier, while admitting candidates, those who took class X and XII exams from the state were automatically considered to be Maharashtra- domiciled, but now, DMER has stated that candidates will also need a certificate for admission. 
 
 The change in rule, experts said, would benefit those from the open category applying to private colleges. For, the domicile rule is already in place for reserved category students. 
 
 "We will soon submit a proposal for making it mandatory to have domicile status in the state for admission to private colleges," said DMER head Dr  . "We are also consulting the law and judiciary department to find out if we can apply the rule in deemed universities too," he added. 
 
 But a day before the May 5 SC directive which stayed the domicile rule for medical post-graduate admission, in another case, the apex court had ruled deemed universities are national in character and they must not be restricted to just local candidates.
 
 But DMER is planning to propose that deemed universities must reserve seats for backward category students, SC/STs and OBCs. In case of PG seats, the court had struck down the domicile policy as it came towards the fag end of the admission process.
 
 "But in case of undergraduate admissions, we are confident the state will clear the decks and the rule will also stand the test of law," said DMER officials. The state had modified the rules to make domicile mandatory for post- graduate seats to address a serious problem of shortage of doctors in its public health schemes across  .
 
 "But in case of undergraduate admissions, we are confident the state will clear the decks and the rule will stand the test of law," said DMER officials. The state had modified the rules to make domicile mandatory for postgraduate seats to address a serious problem of shortage of doctors in its public health schemes. The aim was to permit just domiciled graduates to PG in medicine as they would continue to stay in the state and fill the shortage of doctors.
 
