HYDERABAD: Wish to own an 'affordable' villa? Head straight to Kompally. Nestled at a corner of the city's congested twin Secunderabad, this quiet pocket, spread over just about 11 sq km, is blooming into a sought after destination for the   home buyer, with budgets not higher than Rs 1.5 crore.

 While Kompally's villa story started to take root close to a decade ago, it's only over the last two years that this residential suburb, not too far from the army's base in Hyderabad, has found increased interest, both among developers and prospective buyers. At present, close to 3,000 villas dot this unusually green landscape, with about another 500 on their way. The estimated date of delivery is end-2017 to mid-2018.
 
 Pricing apart, the area's connectivity with the city's wester n corridor--which houses most offices, and has a steadily growing social   such as malls, theatres, hospitals and schools--is a factor that is drawing buyers. Hence, builders' clientele here, previously comprising just local businessmen, doctors and government employees, has now broadened to include IT professionals who have workplaces as far as 25-50 km from Kompally .
 
 “It takes me about an hour to reach my office. But I do not mind the travel because it is smooth, courtesy the outer ring road (ORR). I get to come back to a home that is located in a relatively less polluted pocket of the city. I think, with time, this region is going to draw more people,“ says  , a senior HR professional who works in Kondapur.He is a resident of Aparna Palm Meadows, one of the finest villa projects in the belt. While early entrants, who ventured into the Kompally market over a decade ago, were always certain of its potential to break into the “most-wanted“ list, they confess that the phenomenal g rowth on ground has left them surprised. “When we launched our project in 2006-07, each villa was priced at Rs 60 lakh. Now their value has appreciated to double that. Resale rates are much higher, upwards of Rs 3 crore,“ says Ashwin Rao, director, Manbhum Constructions.
 
 The observations of D S Prasad, director,  , are similar.Though its villas have always been pricier (going for Rs 1-1.5 crore as far back as 2005), the firm has now launched a 'value for money' housing project, offering 220-250 sq yard homes for Rs 90 lakh. “We want to attract the salaried class, which is looking at owning independent homes within gated communities. We have already sold the first phase of the project and are in the process of launching the second,“ says Prasad, stressing that the serenity of Kompally is its USP .
 
 Affordability, coupled with wide roads and noise-free surroundings, are what made Raghuvender Rao to zero in on Kompally as his place of residence. “I have been living in Secunderabad almost all my life. While the rest of this re gion, which was once very peaceful and sparsely populated, has become very crowded now, this area is still free of the hustle-bustle of a big city. That I found an affordable house, complete with all modern amenities, is a bonus,“ said Rao, a senior private company executive living in Oorjita Grand Vie.
 
