JAIPUR: Eighteen-year-old   (name changed) waited for an hour at the doctor’s house a day before his Class XII science   with his mother. He had not slept for days and was under stress that was quite visible from his appearance. The family thought it was fatigue until the doctor said that they were symptoms of a severe neurological disorder.

 Recalling the case, Dr Bhawna Sharma, head of the department of neurology,  , said, “The child confessed to sleeping less than five hours a day and taking pain relievers without prescription for the past three months to contain fatigue. This had the cumulative effect of changing a common pain into nerve pain, vision problem and frequent dizziness. He is under medication and may take a year to recover if all goes as per plan,” said Sharma.
 
 This is not an isolated case. The stress of exams has become extreme, affecting mental and emotional health of students and leading to severe medical problems.
 
 Something as simple as a headache, vomiting, loose motion and change in behavioural pattern at home are possible indicators that the child is under intense stress.
 
 Parents often take such changes very casually and end up paying a heavy price. Dr Sanjiv Maheshwari, a physician at government hospital, said that an unusually high number of school students was visiting his home for medical help.
 
 “A child in Class X was diagnosed with a minor liver infection. Further investigation revealed that excessive intake of caffeine to stay awake for studies and not urinating for hours had caused this problem. We are finding similar cases daily which were rare some five years ago,” said Maheshwari.
 
 The recent two suicides by   (RU) students—Komal Prajapati of Maharani’s College and Shamsheer Singh of Commerce College—show the problem has become more serious as both had access to proper counsellors.
 
 M L Agarwal, a clinical psychologist who heads a counselling centre in Kota for coaching students, says that counselling was the only mechanism present in schools and colleges.
 
 “The problem has gone far beyond counsellors who are capable of giving motivational speech or improving relations with teachers,” said Agarwal.
 
 Stress has been the major reason for suicides in the coaching town of Kota. Around this time of the year, when students appear for board exams and prepare for medical and IIT entrance exams, counsellors are much in demand.
 
 Agarwal has been using modern psychological techniques and determines the level of stress by observing the change in behavioural pattern.
 
 “Everything starts with a change in reactions. This could be in relation with parents, grandparents or reaction towards food, room or routine. They become significant before exams. The onus for reporting such changes lie with parents as the child stays at home preparing for exams,” said Agrawal.
 
