JAISALMER: Members of   from   can be seen camping at  , Shakhar, Sangarh, Ghotaki and Islamgarh areas on the   for hunting   opposite Jaisalmer at Tanot and Shahgarh Bulj areas. 

 Thousands of Houbara birds from cold countries come to desert areas in Pakistan opposite the international border adjoining Jaisalmer in winter time.
 
 The Arabs hunt Houbara birds with dozens of specially trained falcons and also use firearms. 
 
 Surprisingly, this time a large number of Houbara birds are being sighted in Jaisalmer’s Desert National Park area too. They are being seen in DNP area after a very long time.
 
 According to information from reliable defence sources, big and small 4x4 Toyota cars equipped with modern communication gadgets could be seen running behind these birds on the Pak side.
 
 Sources said that for 2016-17, Pakistan government has issued many permits for trained hunting falcons. Pak has allotted different desert areas to royal families of Arab countries to hunt Houbara.
 
 These days, many Sheikhs are coming with trained falcons at Bahawalpur, Rahimiyaar, Shakhar Sangad areas in Pakistan opposite Nachna, Shahgarh Bulj and Tanot areas in Jaisalmer, sources added.
 
 These hunting falcons are of Perigon and Lager breeds. It costs Rs 4-5 lakh to train these falcons. While trained falcons come for Rs 12 lakh each. Transmitter and antenna are fitted to them. They keep flying in search of Houbara birds. The Arabs keep moving in their Toyota vehicles according to the signals received. After hunting, the falcon waits with the dead bird and till the owners come. Thereafter the dead birds are kept in deep freezers fitted in Toyota cars. 
 
 It is said that the meat of Houbara bird is very tasty and is aphrodisiac due to which Arab royals every year reach desert areas during winter and Pakistan government is being paid crores of dollars for allowing to hunt these birds.
 
 It is to be mentioned that from 1974 to 1978, the Arab royals came to desert areas in Jaisalmer for hunting. But it met with protests from the local people. Later, the issue was raised in Parliament following which the Government of India imposed a ban on Houbara hunting.
 
 
