LUCKNOW: The   paper leak case that brought special task force and Lucknow police face to face will be re-examined. Investigating officers for the case busted in May 2015 with arrest of 12 persons from a house in Jiayamau were changed four times while a fifth will be appointed now. TOI had been highlighting developments on the case regularly.

 The first investigator was able to gather evidence against the accused group, the next   officer started giving clean chit to some of them. DGP Sulkhan Singh ordered reinvestigation into the matter and directed SSP Lucknow to appoint a “competent”   who would cross-check all the facts.
 
 “In case irregularities are detected, censure entries will be given to IO concerned and to those who supervised the probes,” said Sulkhan, who issued the order on May 6.
 
 Students of KGMU (Lucknow), GSVM (Kanpur) and BIT (Ranchi) were arrested with copies of the 2015 question paper which was shared with them over WhatsApp. STF sub-inspector Sanjay Kumar Singh lodged an FIR at Gautampalli police station. Probing the case, first investigating officer Awadhesh Tripathi collected evidence against director of   educational institute Surendra Shukla. It was found that Shukla’s daughter had appeared for the CPMT paper at a different centre. The same set of question papers was passed on to the solvers.
 
 Apart from the 12 arrested, Tripathi filed charge-sheet against Shukla and three others who worked at Rameshwaram and Techno Institute, the two exam centers through which paper was allegedly leaked.
 
 In September 2015, Tripathi got non-bailable warrants against the group of four and also recommended that Gangsters Act be pressed against them for jeopardising the exam.
 
 The IO was changed and inspector Shyam Sundar Mishra was handed over the case in October 2015. Sources said instructions to change the IO came from the highest authority. Mishra, however, found no merit in his predecessor’s case-diary and gave clean chit to Shukla.
 
 Rajesh Pandey was SSP, Rajiv Malhotra was posted as SP East and DySP Ashok Verma was circle officer of Hazratganj. “It was an important case and other officers should have checked what went wrong,” said DGP Singh.
 
 Mishra retired in 2016 and a new probe officer was appointed. As the third officer got transferred, Qaiserbagh SHO was appointed fourth officer. Now, SSP Deepak Kumar is expected to appoint fifth IO who would examine all facts before deciding who gets framed and who is given clean chit.
 
