BENGALURU: A preliminary inquiry by   engineers into the wall collapse at  , Malleswaram, revealed that dampness in the structure -unwanted moisture that had accumulated in the wall of the building -could be the reason for the collapse on Monday.

 “The dampness, we suspect, is due to unchecked water leakage into the structure. This could be a leakage in water supply pipes, a problem with the air conditioning duct or even rain penetration. The continued presence of excess moisture could have weakened the wall. However, the exact reason for the incident will be established only after a thorough inquiry,“ said Bette Gowda, chief engineer (West zone), BBMP, under whose jurisdiction the mall falls.
 
 Mall officials said it was premature to tell the cause of the collapse and only a thorough investigation will give a clear picture. “The building is safe. The portion which collapsed is beyond the main structure. It is a cantilever. The building is seven years old and the material used is of good quality . We are investigating the possible reasons for the incident and will rectify them,“ said Gururaj TS, consultant engineer.
 
 Bette Gowda also said that it is the responsibility of the mall authorities to conduct regular inspections on the strength of the structure.
 
 
  “This is crucial, especially at places like malls where there is regular public movement. We have to check whether safety inspections were carried out regularly by expert structural consultants or not,“ he said.
 
 Asked why the BBMP does not conduct inspections at such huge properties where public safety is a concern, a senior official from the BBMP Town Planning wing said, “We do such checks while awarding occupancy certificates and related approvals. Once the OC is given, it is the responsibility of the property owner to ensure everything is in order. The mall is more than 10 years old,“ he pointed out.
 
  
  BBMP mayor G Padmavathy, who visited the mall, said, “I visited the mall soon after the incident was reported and found that there are chances of more danger if the mall is kept open for operations. I discussed this with town planning officials, who suggested that the mall be kept closed till a thorough inquiry on its structural aspects is completed. Following discussions with the BBMP commissioner, it has been decided to keep the mall closed till the inquiry report reaches us.“
 
 
 
 
 I have ordered a detailed inquiry into the Mantri Square mall wall collapse. We will initiate action against the guilty, once the report is ready. If the structure has any violations pertaining to the sanctioned plan or other loopholes, action will be initiated. A report on the safety and structural aspects of all high-rises and big buildings in the city will also be sought. Action will be taken against malls which have violated norms, irrespective of who owns it.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 As soon as news of the wall collapse at Mantri Square went viral, there was consternation among Namma Metro commuters, as the Sampige Road station of the North-South corridor is located adjacent to the mall. In fact, there is an entry and exit point from Sampige Road station (also known as Mantri Square station) to the mall. UA Vasanth Rao, spokesperson,  , said, “There has been no disruption to Metro operations.For safety reasons, we have only closed the mall side entry to the station. Other entry and exit points are open as usual.“
 
 
 
 
 I was waiting for a friend on the fourth floor. Around 2pm, we heard a loud noise and ran down to the ground floor. I tried to go to the rear of the building to see what had happened, however, we were not allowed to go. When I came back into the building, there was water-logging. By then people started running out of the building and I jointed them.
 
 
 
 
 I had come shopping with my family and we were on the first floor when it (wall collapse) happened. Someone told us that the building was collapsing and we all ran out. At this time, power in the building went out, and we ran out in the dark.When we reach down, there were several others who had come out of the building, we were then asked to leave the premises.
 
 
 
 
