Some came in their traditional outfits. Some came in leather biker jackets. A few came dressed as their favourite superheroes (or "sher"oes). Some came in support of their favourite causes. 

 However, the one common thread linking them all, was the celebration of the joy and pride of womanhood. Women from all walks of life thronged in large numbers to the   on Sunday, 5th March 2017. The All Women Bike Rally is an annual event conducted by the BCCL Language Publications group to commemorate Women's Day and has over the years evolved into a strong symbol of women's freedom and liberation.
 
  This concept was seeded in March 2013 in the aftermath of the horrific Nirbhaya gang rape incident, with an objective to encourage women to reclaim their cities without any fear. 
 
 Conducted jointly by Navbharat Times, Maharashtra Times and Ei Samay across Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Lucknow, Pune, Nashik, Kolhapur and Aurangabad, this program has attained the form of a national movement. Besides empowering women and giving them a tangible and constructive symbol through which they assert themselves with pride and confidence, the rally has also developed into a 'must go' event for women to express solidarity with the cause & celebrate womanhood in a fun, informal setting.
 
 The All Women Bike Rally has been recognised globally & was awarded a Gold at the most prestigious marketing awards INMA in its first year. In 2016, with a then record participation of 9612 women bikers, it also made it to the   under the category "Largest All Women Bike Rally". This year, with a participation of 10195 women, the rally surpassed its own record. With the theme "Kabhi Rukna Nahi", the rally celebrated success stories of women who have defied every boundary and emerged victorious through their sheer hard work & perseverance becoming an inspiration for many.
 
  The event was graced by celebrities like Bollywood stars Abhay Deol, Sania Malhotra and Bhumi Pednekar, Olympics medal winner and wrestler Sushil Kumar as well as leading politicians, IAS officers and top police brass. 
 
 
