MARGAO: Even as thefts are on the rise in   city, senior police officials have expressed their helplessness to nab the burglars as most of their personnel have been deployed on  .

 A group of residents of Abade Faria Road and Comba in Margao said there have been several thefts in the neighbourhood since December 4, 2016, and they suspect a gang of around seven members is committing the crimes as the modus operandi is very similar in all the cases. “We demand the authorities immediately repair the street lights and install CCTVs to nab the thieves.”
 
 Some of the locals shared with TOI how the thieves have broken into their houses through the terrace between December 4, 2016, and January 9, 2017. 
 
 While the residences of both,   and Simplicio D’Silva were robbed on December 27, 2016, thieves entered the residence of Sachit Kakodkar on December 8, 2016. 
 
 Octogenarian Julia Fernandes’ house was burgled twice on December 22, 2016 and January 2, 2017, with the thieves spraying on her face while she was asleep and stealing her mobile phone, gold ornaments and cash all worth over Rs 2 lakh.
 
 “The robbers twisted the iron bar of Simplicio’s kitchen window, climbed through it and opened the bedroom door where Simplicio, his wife and one-year-old child were asleep. His mobile phone was stolen,” said one of the residents. 
 
 Another theft attempt was foiled when  , local, saw a person crouching on his verandah. Upon seeing Prashant, the man jumped from the parapet and fled. 
 
 In another case, a thief was caught by two locals on January 9 and handed over to police. However, aggrieved locals claimed that even without having conducted medical tests, police sent the boy to Apna Ghar in Merces as he seems to be a juvenile. A senior police officer in Margao said the minor will be further interrogated. “
 
 In view of the upcoming assembly election, the Margao Town police are facing an acute staff crunch. But we are trying to do our best,” the officer added.
 
 Angry with the police’s failure to promptly register FIRs, arrest culprits and recover the stolen properties, the residents have formed a group of 15-20 youth who now regularly patrol the area. Sometimes, women and children join the team. 
 
 
