JAIPUR: Government recently announced a Rs 20 crore   to visit the ruins of Kuldhara, the abandoned villages about 20 km from   .  , nearby Kuldhara, has long served as an attraction for bird-watchers.

 However, the water of the lake is now being pumped out by unscrupulous operators to make a quick buck. If this is not curtailed, locals say, the lake could soon run dry .
 
  ruins of 83 villages which suddenly emptied out in the 13th century , reportedly after news spread that a powerful man would marry one of the daughters of the village ­ with or without the consent of the girl. State government now plans a museum and spaces where tourists can stay at night to experience the ambience of an area believed to be haunted .
 
 Bird lovers across the globe throng Jaseri Lake. There are many native and migratory bird species that find safety and adequate water in this area.However, the lake is now under threat as a regular train of water tankers fills water from it for selling in nearby areas.
 
 “The trucks do not arrive as frequently in the winter as the demand for water shrinks a little. In the summer, however, a large number of trucks line up to fill water from the lake. This is a huge disturbance for the birds ­ the trucks tend to be noisy. There are lesser and lesser birds arriving here because of this. What is worse, this is a good water reserve that is being destroyed by greed. Chief minister Vasundhara Raje launched the Jal Swavlamban Scheme last year, allocating Rs 1,500 crore for it. Here, we have a flourishing lake under threat. Authorities should intervene in time, before over-exploitation destroys the lake,“ said Virender Singh, a resident of Jaisalmer city .
 
 Singh said that at a meeting of district officials and members of the general public to discuss tourism development last month, the question of the over-exploitation of lake water was raised. However, authorities are still to take any action.
 
 Collector Matadeen Sharma said, “This has not been brought to my notice yet. I will now look into it.“
 
