VISAKHAPATNAM: The state government is taking steps to handle the heatwave situation after the   (IMD) forecast that summer-2017 would be the warmest since 1901. Rs 100 crore has been specially allocated for the   to prevent death and other problems caused by heatwave in the summer.

 Confirming this,   commissioner MV   told TOI that all the collectors in the districts had been asked to take requisite steps for the summer. “Last year, we had reported 700 deaths in the state due to heatwave. We hope to take all requisite safety and precautionary measures this year to ensure there are no deaths,” Seshagiri Babu said.
 
  collector Pravin Kumar said chief secretary Ajeya Kallam addressed all collectors through a video conference and asked them to take requisite measures in urban, agency and rural areas. Pravin Kumar said an estimated sum of Rs 2.25 crore is required to take safety measures including supplying drinking water, erecting water kiosks and makeshift stalls at public places across the district. Pravin Kumar said control rooms would also be set up in the district for rapid response to victims.
 
 Medical and health principal secretary Poonam Malakondaiah said all medical units in the districts have been alerted to provide special attention to heat stroke victims. She instructed the district medical and health officers to admit heat stroke victims on a priority basis and give requisite medical treatment. All these precautionary measures are because IMD director (forecast) K Nagaratnam from Hyderabad told TOI that the IMD had declared 2016 as the warmest year from 1901 to 2016 with an increase of 1.3 degree Celsius in maximum temperature in every area in the country. 
 
 This year, the IMD predicts a 0.74 degree Celsius increase in the maximum temperature of every area in the country. She said maximum temperature levels were continuously increasing 0.01 degree Celsius every summer since 1980. 
 
 Extreme heat wave conditions is likely to start within the next five to six days. At present, the weather condition is normal due to the presence of easterly winds. 
 
 “This summer will definitely be hotter. In most places, maximum temperatures may rise more than 40 degree Celsius from April to May,” Nagaratnam said.
 
