NAGPUR: Though this summer seems to be the hottest, and longest, in recent years, the situation is completely opposite, if one goes by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) records and its forecasts. There is a possibility that this year’s ‘nau tapa’, the nine hottest days of summer, may be the coldest one in the last eight years. The temperature is not likely to cross 44 degree in the first five days of the nau tapa, which begins on May 25, as per the  .

 While the hottest day of the month every year is mostly recorded in or around the nau tapa, this year it was recorded in the middle of the month, on May 15 at 46.2 degree.
 
 Deputy director general of meteorology (DDGM) J   told TOI, “All these factors indicate an early summer. Nowhere around March would one witness heatwave conditions in the city, but this year we have. Even the hottest days, which were supposed to occur at the end of the month, have already occurred in the mid of May.” He said, “Global warming, coupled with urbanization, are the primary reasons for the early shift in the season.”
 
 On Tuesday, the temperature was recorded at 44.7 degree, two notches above normal, while the night temperature was 30 degree. As the nau tapa begins from Thursday, temperature in the initial five days is likely to linger between 42-44 degree.
 
 However, citizens feel it’s the other way round.   (51), a housewife from  , said, “It feels like it’s the arrival of nau tapa. The heat has surely risen in last few days. Summer we experience here has a speciality, no matter how hot it is in the day, the night becomes eventually cool. However, for last 6-7 days, there is no respite even in the night. The rising humidity is making it more difficult.”
 
 Shiksha Dhillon (23), a law student who stays at  , said, “Last year, we were at least able to drive to the college during exams. This year, the scorching heat could literally be felt, making it tough to stand in the sun for even a moment. The IMD records are quite surprising.”
 
 Unlike last eight years, when the hottest day of the month was recorded between May 22 and 30, this time the hottest day was in the middle of the month, May 15, at 46.2 degree. 
 
 Adding to the surprise, the IMD predicts lesser sunshine for the next six days. The temperature on Tuesday is likely to be 44 degree with partly cloudy sky. On Friday, the temperature may go down to 43 degree. On May 26, the sky may continue to be partly cloudy with possibility of thunder and lightning. For the next three consecutive days, the temperature may further decrease to 42 degree. There is a possibility of rain or thunderstorm in those days. The night temperature is likely to stay between 30 and 31 degree.
 
