NAGPUR: Dr Neeti   Gupta, an ENT surgeon from Nagpur, has developed a scoring system for evaluating risk of malignancy (cancer) in thyroid disease. It is a nomogram, basically an online digital calculator, that compares various parameters involved and can calculate the percentage risk of malignancy of thyroid. Patients can also calculate the risk on their own using this technique.

 Dr Gupta will be presenting the system at the World Congress on   at Boston on July 27. She is one of the 25 pan-India team being led by the senior head and neck surgeon from city Dr  . For the first time, as many as five doctors from Nagpur are part of the team.
 
 The study, called Impacct (Imaging, pathological and clinical correlation in thyroid) conducted so far on 109 patients, has used a statistical tool for the assessment by  . “If the experts in congress give nod to this technique, it will be the first nomogram to be developed for assessing thyroid cancers in the world. We would publish the study after we have tried it on another few hundred patients,” said Dr Gupta.
 
 Dr Madan Kapre told TOI that he was proud to lead the Indian contingent as it had many senior and renowned surgeons. “Generally in world congresses, such an honour is given to only very senior professors. I am a private practitioner. Probably it came because of our   thyroid surgery project that has had a huge impact worldwide,” he said.
 
 Dr Kapre, who would be also delivering a keynote address in the Indian Sub-Continent Symposium, titled ‘The thyroid Gurukool: teaching thyroid surgery in tribal setting’, would be talking about the residential school system organized once a year at Chikhaldara. 
 
 “The students coming for this annual camp from all over the world are allowed to assist me. We have one faculty for every four students. These students are asked to try the surgeries in their place and give us a feedback. The residential school is a place with lessons for all, teachers, students, surgeons and patients. World’s who’s who in thyroid surgery has attended our school at least once and hence we have been invited as a team to present our work for the first time in any world congress,” said Dr Kapre.
 
 The Melghat project would never have been possible but for Dr Vidula Kapre, anaesthetist, who uses a special cervical epidural anaesthesia for conducting awake thyroidectomy. “General anaesthesia requires a lot of meticulous intra-op and post-op care. Considering the huge number of patients in the camp it was not possible to use general anaesthesia. This technique clicked in Melghat also because of the unusually cooperative behaviour and tolerance from the tribals,” she said.
 
 Dr Deven Mahore from the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) would be presenting a paper on the ‘Superior laryngeal nerve-study of 261 nerves. Dr Abhishek Vaidya would be conducting the presentations of the team.
 
