Nagpur:   vice chancellor SP Kane, on Monday, assured to restore examination section charge to pro-VC Pramod Yeole, as early as possible. Earlier, the charge was taken away from him, as per the new Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016. But the incident created a flutter in university circles.

 The VC clarified that it was done as per the new Act where pro-VC’s position was made more powerful as compared to the 1994 Act. “Now, he is entrusted with more responsibilities. He has given similar powers just like the VC. He can now demand any files from any section of university to study and given his comments. No one, including registrar and other top officials, can disobey his orders, unlike in earlier Act, where his role was limited to the conducting examinations,” Kane told TOI.
 
 He however added that the final decision-making authority would be with the VC, while pro-VC could give suggestions and comments. “He will be given full-time charge in VC’s absence. It’s good that pro-VC’s powers are enhanced. It would ensure double monitoring of all issues in the university.”
 
 VC said Yeole has performed exceedingly well. “He was responsible for slew of reforms in the exam system that ended its perennial problems like delay in results declaration. He has also got a good hold. Delegation of powers are always good thing.” 
 
 Registrar Puran Meshram, who had issued a notification on taking out pro-VC’s powers, stated that the exam section would now operate under the VC, as per new Act. The new regulation has given entire responsibility of ‘College and   ( )’ on the pro-VC. 
 
 “Earlier CUDD was known as Board of College and   (BCUD). Now, they have merged the development and college sections along with BCUD under CUDD. It would have two sub-departments — university development and college development,” he told TOI.
 
  severs all ties with BOI
 
 As reported by TOI, NU on Monday broke its three-decade old relationship with the Bank of India (BOI), following its failure to refund the dues. VC Kane held a meeting with finance officer Raju Hiwase and took the decision. BOI had sought 15 days for refunding the amount of Rs32 lakh, siphoned off from the NU accounts by fraudsters on fake cheques last year. “NU was to take decision in last   meeting only. But After BOI’s request, it was given the breather. Now, BOI would be asked to vacate its offices from its branch at NU campus,” NU officials said.
 
