The rate at which India’s rivers are shrinking, it is estimated that by 2030, 25 per cent of our country would have turned into desert. And, only 50 per cent of the water needed for our survival would be available. These dismal statistics sounded like a clarion call for 26-year-old   technical engineer  , who decided to do something about it. “But what — that was the question. I knew cycling was my biggest passion and I’ve always had an instinct to do something different. That’s when I heard about the   campaign, and that got me thinking about how I can contribute to spread the message to save rivers.”
Taking a leaf out of Sadhguru’s book, Satish thought, “if he could personally drive from Kanyakumari to Kashmir, I could do the same on my cycle.” And thus began his epic journey from Kashmir on September 9. 
 Ask him how he prepared for his solo ride, and Satish says, “My mission is to complete the ride in 20 days flat. I’ve been making good time so far and hope to make it to Kanyakumari by September 28 as planned. As for the prep, I’ve been on a lot of long-distance solo rides in the past as well. For this ride, I did work out quite a bit; I used to run for 20 kms daily, besides going cycling with my club members in Kashmir.” 
 The journey turned out to be a discovery of India and Indians for the Srikakulam native. “I faced a few challenges on the way — like getting dehydrated on the Delhi-Gwalior leg and falling off the bike and injuring myself in Dabra. But the kindness of the people I met on the way is what has stood out in this trip so far. Everyone I interacted with has been so kind. In Punjab for instance, when my tyre had a puncture, the locals helped me take my cycle to a nearby workshop and get it repaired. And when they heard about my mission and the campaign, they refused to take any money from me,” he says, adding, “I’m really happy that I am part of this campaign to raise awareness about India’s depleting rivers. I think we should all take it upon ourselves to save our country’s lifelines — our rivers — in whatever capacity we can. 
 
