Madurai: The special teams formed by Madurai city police have nabbed a bunch of robbers, chain snatchers and criminals involved in waylaying in the city limits. 

 Based on the instructions of commissioner Shailesh Kumar Yadav, these special teams were formed at various police station levels and have been investigating these cases.
 
 The team formed at Thirunagar limits headed by Inspector Nagaraj caught hold of E Sathishkumar, 27 from Alapalachery on suspicion during the vehicular check on Wednesday. During interrogation, he spilled the beans that along with three more accomplices, he had robbed M Poongotahi, 64, residing at Nehru Nagar of a gold chain while she was at home on February 20 by breaking into the house. 
 
 They also burgled the house of R Kannappan, 67 at Thirunagar and made off with a Maruti car, LED TV, gold ornaments, silver and cash when he was away with his family between April 17 and 26. 
 
 The team was also involved in other chain snatching and robberies. These included breaking into the house of L Vijaya, 49, at Pudukulam II Bit and relieving her of gold ornaments at knifepoint on April 20 and snatching gold chain from K Soundari, 60 while she was walking near her house at Thirunagar on April 21. 
 
 Sathishkumar was arrested by the special team and police recovered the Maruti car, LED TV, two gold ornaments, silver and cash from him. 
 
 In a similar manner, the special team formed to nab chain snatchers arrested a man involved in multiple incidents. After a series of chain snatchings were reported, a special team was formed consisting of police personnel from Thilagarthidal and SS Colony police stations.
 
  The team carrying out vehicle check at Mudakkusalai on Wednesday stopped Babli alias B Vidyanand, 24 from Mapalayam. 
 
 During investigation, he accepted that he was involved in a series of chain snatching incidents targeting mostly elderly women. On April 8, he had snatched a gold chain from H Sasikala, 60 from Bodi Line and snatched another chain from S Rajalakshmi, 67 of SS Colony on April 18. 
 
 He had snatched a gold chain from L Padmavathi, 60 from Duraisami Nagar Extension even on Tuesday. He was arrested and police recovered Rs 4.5 lakh worth of jewellery from him as well as a two-wheeler he has been using for chain-snatching. He was involved in these cases single-handedly, police said. 
 
 The commissioner appreciated the special teams for solving various robbery and chain snatching cases by acting swiftly. 
 
 
