RAIPUR: Joining the nation-wide agitation against   of high value  , scores of Congress workers staged protest outside district collectorates across the state on Friday. 

 The mass agitation was part of the country-wide stir called by All India Congress Committee from booth to national level against   government's anti-people policies and its failure to resolve the problems faced by common man, hit by demonetisation. State party leaders, legislators, AICC members led the picketing in front of collectorate in all 27 districts.
 
 The protesters in the state capital were seen carrying huge flex of newly introduced Rs 2,000 note with 'Modi bewafa hai' inscribed on it.
 
  president Bhupesh Baghel, AICC appointed state coordinator   led the protest march organised in the state capital. 
 
 Large number of Congress workers assembled at the collectorate to hand over a memorandum to the collector addressed to the president. Leader of the opposition in the assembly TS Singhdeo led the agitation in Ambikapur in north  . 
 
 Raipur district Congress committee president Vikas Upadhyaya said that the memorandum addressed to the president demanded an impartial probe into Modi sarkar's corruption and lifting restrictions of withdrawal of money from banks. 
 
 It said that demonetisation, implemented in haste without any prior planning or preparations, had hit almost all sections of the society, causing distress to the farmers and loss of jobs to workers in industrial and even in unorganised sector. It also sought relief for farmers and other workers as the demonetisation had turned out to be a war against the poor. 
 
 There were reports of scuffle during the protest when party workers tried to break the police barricade at Dhamtari where the police used mild force to disperse the crowd while the police used water cannons in Raigarh and Bilaspur districts.
 
 State Congress spokesman   said the agitation was a grand success as large number of party workers, including women, joined the protest march across the state as demonetisation and the resultant cash crisis had pushed the economy into a crisis, leaving common masses in deep trouble.
 
 
