PATNA: The   (BSEB) has made elaborate arrangements to conduct Intermediate examinations across the state from February 14 to 25. Examinees will be put under the surveillance of   ( ) cameras this time.

 BSEB chairman   has sent an 18-point directive to the authorities of all examination centres, asking them to follow the rules strictly during examinations. Kishor has asked all DMs and SPs to ensure deployment of static and patrolling magistrates separately both inside and outside the examination centres.
 
 All centre superintendents have been asked to provide one invigilator per 25 examinees in the examination halls. Examinees, including girls, will be frisked at the time of entering the centres. Each centre would set up a separate makeshift room for the frisking of girl examinees by the women teachers and women police. The examinees will not be allowed to carry cellphones and other items inside the examination hall. Only admit card and pen will be allowed.
 
 Sources said the Patna district administration has divided the examination centres into two zones – super zone and zone – which will be under the direct control of DM and police. “There will be separate patrolling magistrates to ensure delivery of question papers at each centre under police protection,” sources said, adding each centre will maintain a visitors’ register at the main gate.
 
 The examinations will be videographed at each centre. Even invigilators have been asked not to carry cellphones while on duty. All electronic gadgets, including Bluetooth, have been strictly prohibited at the examination centres. In case of any complaint, centre superintendents can contact BSEB chairman on 0612-2227588 and 8544429101, secretary on 0612- 2227587 and 8544429102 and examination controller on 0612- 2232249 and 8544429109.
 
 According to sources, the BSEB chairman has also asked district officials concerned to create a separate WhatsApp group linking all DMs and DEOs of the districts to share information related to Intermediate examinations. This time, the Board has decided to use codes for each paper to maintain secrecy of the examinations.
 
 Meanwhile, all city-based constituent colleges of   have been made centres for Intermediate examinations. Most of the colleges will have to suspend their classes during examination period as the district administration will clamp Section 144 in and around examination centres.
 
 
