GURUGRAM: A mob vandalised the   and thrashed its staff on Wednesday night, egged on by a local resident who was angry that his car had to wait for a few minutes to pass despite having a toll-free tag. Over a dozen toll collection staff was injured. Assistant toll plaza manager Ravinder Singh and lane attendant Ravi were admitted to hospital with serious injuries, police said. Two others suffered injuries when they jumped off the first floor in a bid to save their lives.

 A case of rioting and assault was filed against 50 villagers, most of them from Rampura near the Gurgaon-Delhi expressway, on Thursday morning. Residents of nearby villages enjoy toll exemption. But late on Wednesday, around 11.45pm, a cab headed for Rampura had to wait for a few minutes as a motorist in front was paying toll. 
 
 It took a while, officials said, because the motorist had given a Rs 2,000 note and toll collector was putting together change. But the delay annoyed Surender, a 50-year-old going to Rampura in the cab. As he grew impatient and protested, an argument started with lane attendant Sukhbir. When Sukhbir asked him to remain in queue, Surender slapped him. Sukhbir reacted by pushing him back and Surender fell to the ground. Enraged further, he whipped out a gun and threatened the staff. The Swift DZire (HR55 W 4316) was allowed to pass after this. But Surender would not let this pass. He parked the car nearby and called his neighbours for help. A while later, group of men arrived in 10 cars and attacked the toll plaza, breaking boom barriers, sensors, toll booths, glass panes and even damaging some vehicles on the highway. All this was caught on CCTV cameras. They held the staff hostage for around an hour, during which they also took several thousand rupees from cash boxes and let vehicles pass without paying toll. 
 
 Incidentally, at least 25 cops had been posted at the toll plaza in each shift ever since toll collection was resumed on December 2 after the demonetisation break. But they were recalled on Wednesday, leaving only one cop, constable Amit Kumar, at the plaza. “The goons damaged the IT department, control room, cashier’s office and validation room inside the office building. They damaged some really advanced technical machinery too. So far, we have calculated damages of Rs 5.25 lakh. This is besides the loss of toll fee,” said S Raghuraman, CEO of expressway operator Millennium City Expressways Private Ltd.
 
 The attack stopped when two PCRs from Kherki Daula police station reached the toll plaza around 1.10am. The villagers ran off on seeing the cops, who took the injured toll plaza staff to hospitals. An FIR was registered at Kherki Daula police station, based on the statement of toll plaza manager Kripal Singh, against 50 villagers, under sections 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 and 332 (causing hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement), 427 (mischief causing damage) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. 
 
 “We’re scanning CCTV clips to identify the accused. We’ll nab them,” said assistant sub inspector Naresh Kumar.
 
 
