The first flush of rain invariably heralds the end of summer, but over three decades ago, the onset of the monsoon in Goa also meant it was time to stock up for the ‘rainy days’ ahead. The ‘Purumentachem Fest’ (feast of provisions or ‘festa de provisao’) afforded just that opportunity. 

 Explaining the genesis of this feast, researcher, photographer and author of several books on traditional Goa, Pantaleao Fernandes states, “Several feasts occur across Goa before the monsoon, particularly that of Our Lady of Milagres at Mapusa, of the Holy Spirit at Margao and of the ascension of Lord Jesus at Panaji, as also Ram Navami at Partagali (Canacona). 
 
 As is the practice, every feast is accompanied by a fair. Owing to their proximity to the monsoon, these fairs are of particular importance as vendors, who would make their way from the hinterlands, would stock up on varieties of local salt fish like kite (solvve), dried prawns and Bombay ducks (sukhe bombil), and pickles like ‘para’, ‘balchao’ and ‘molho’ to substitute the lack of fresh fish during the monsoon. Stocks also included local onions, vegetables, rice, salt, tamarind, spices and so on. Hence the nomenclature, ‘purumentachem fest’, which actually refers to the fair of provisions.”
 
 However, with the evolution of time and the advent of modern storage facilities into Goa, the ‘Purumentachem Fest’ has dwindled to a mere traditional practice, changing both, in terms of logistics and configuration. “Attribute it to the free availability of these items in the market throughout the year as well as wider food choices and better transportation facilities,” reasons Maria Lourdes Bravo da Costa, historian and author. 
 
 “As compared to earlier, say even two or three decades ago, the numbers of vendors are few and there are hardly any takers. I recall the fair in Panaji would stretch out on the 18th June Road, particularly around the urban health centre, and on the adjacent road across the main street. People would arrive in droves to pick up these provisions and stock up for the monsoon. Unfortunately, the trend is now reversed with just a few vendors struggling to sell their wares. Instead, one finds more brisk business at the clothes, jewellery, plastic and household item stalls, which are now taking up most of the space at these fairs,” she observes.
 
 Lamenting on the lapse of the earlier vibrant fair, Doris Melo, a resident of Panaji for over 40 years, recalls how vendors would place their local produce on mats in their allotted spaces. “People would rush to the fair to stock up on provisions. Today, it’s just the older generation that will loyally pick up some provisions. Nowadays, youngsters have a wider choice and different tastes. Also, the fact that these items are freely available in the open market/shops is another deterrent,” she states.
 
 Witness to the fast-evolving changes in Margao, long-time resident and eminent cardiologist Dr Francisco Colaco, whose residence and hospital adjoins the Holy Spirit Church, observes how the fair itself has undergone drastic changes. 
 
 “The charm of the earlier fair, which was located around the church square, has disappeared. The large provisions fair was set up around the old market area and it would stretch up to the Kadamba bus stand. Now it is shifted to the Kadamba bus stand and the road linking Cortalim to Fatorda. But, yet again, there are hardly any vendors or buyers for these provisions. Rather one sees more clothes, plastic items and steel furniture on sale,” he says.
 
 The most telling testimony, perhaps, of the changing fair comes from old-time vendors themselves. “Earlier, we were assured of brisk business, with people stocking up in bulk for the monsoon. But now, since items are easily available in the market and travel has become easier, it has put paid not only to our business but also to the traditional ‘Purumentachem Fest’ itself,” Ida Fernandes, a vendor at Mapusa, laments.
 
 
