BHOPAL: After election results in the five states, including Uttar Pradesh, chief minister   plans to organise tiffin parties in each district of the state to make a personal connect with the booth level workers. The move is aimed to pacify the disgruntled workers and inculcate a sense of ‘belonging and responsibility' among them.

 BJP had been facing a tough time to contain party workers in rural areas as complaints of discontentment surfaced in the party due to apathy of ministers and bureaucrats. During recent meeting of the state working committee at Pachmarhi, party MLAs had raised issues that need urgent redressal. It was also cautioned that if the party failed to give due attention to the complaints, it would find itself in a position akin to the Congress in 2013. 
 
 The tiffin parties are aimed at bringing a synergy among workers and to involve them in the party's strategy for 2018 assembly elections. It also gives a message of equality within the party, unlike other political groups, said sources in the state leadership. 
 
 “Tiffin parties have been arranged from the first week of April where chief minister will address symposia on integrated humanism of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya. In the evening a tiffin party with local BJP leaders and block workers will be held where meals will be shared and plans will be discussed for the welfare of public,” BJP state vice-president Vijesh Lunawat told TOI.
 
 He said the main focus of the programme will mark the birth centenary celebrations of Pandit Deendayal where party leaders will discuss the ideology. During the visit, the chief minister will also meet local intelligentsia including doctors, lawyers and member of various NGOs to get a whiff of the development works undertaken by the ruling government, he added. 
 
 Party leaders, however, have their own observations. Tiffin parties have been planned taking a cue from Prime Minister Narendra Modi's strategy which he adopted in December last year, in Varanasi, his Parliamentary constituency from which he was elected in 2014, they said.
 
 Chief minister Chouhan will meet the workers in person and try to arrest the discontentment, they said. The party has prepared a road map for the tiffin parties. Chief minister will attend official functions during day time and have dinner with party workers. All the workers have been asked to bring their packed tiffin for dinner, while one of the workers will bring a tiffin for the chief minister too.
 
 
