

 The month of March witnesses some of the worst financial mis takes as investors rush to make tax-saving investments.   funds topped the ET Wealth ranking of best tax-saving options earlier this year. However, though financial planners recommend systematic investing, less than 20% of the total inflows into ELSS funds come through the SIP route.Traditional life insurance plans don't yield more than 5-6% returns, yet sell like hot cakes in March. When it comes to the PPF, even young taxpayers don't mind locking up their money for the long term to earn modest returns.
 
 How can taxpayers avoid such mistakes? ELSS funds are   schemes that help create wealth in the long term.The category has generated 20.2% annualised returns in the past three years and 16.4% in the past five years. But one must invest through monthly SIPs, instead of not put a huge amount at one go. This is especially true in the current situation when the markets are at high levels.
 
 Taxpayers should choose investments that fill gaps in their portfolios. Invest in ELSS funds if you are looking for equity exposure. Also, choose an ELSS fund that matches your risk appetite. Most importantly, the three-year lock-in period should not be construed as the holding period for an ELSS fund. Holding for longer periods could give better returns.
 
 Similarly , the PPF is a good option for long-term savings. However, younger people should not over-invest in this option. In most cases, the monthly contribution to the Provident Fund is more than sufficient to build up the debt portion of an individual's investment portfolio.Adding the PPF could skew the asset allocation and drag down overall returns.
 
 
 
 
 The other big mistake is to make a multiyear commitment without fully understanding the implications. Life insurance policies require you to pay the premium for the full term of the plan. You can close a plan prematurely , but not without taking a hit. Insurance plans sell like hot cakes in March as taxpayers buy them for the wrong reasons. Avoid buying an insurance plan in a hurry . Assess your need for a cover, ability to service the premium for the full term and willingness to accept 5-6% returns. If all the boxes are ticked, buy the insurance plan.Otherwise, stay away from policies that combine the benefits of life insurance, investment and tax savings.
 
 Ulips is another such multi-year investment. The new online Ulips are very different from the pre-2010 policies. Their costs are very low, which leads to higher returns for investors. Equity plans of Ulips have earned almost 12% annualised returns in the past 5 years. However, this number only denotes the growth in the NAV , and the actual returns for the investor might be lower. But these policies also require multi-year commitments.
 
 The only insurance policy worth buying is a pure protection term plan. These plans only cover the risk of death and do not have a maturity value.
 
 
 
 
 If you don't have time to assess the util ity of an insurance policy or go through the fine print, stick to the tried and tested small savings schemes. Though interest rates have come down in recent months, small savings scheme still offer 8-8.5%. The PPF offers 8% tax free, which makes it better than bank deposits where interest rates have slid to 7-7.5%. However, investors should be ready for rate cuts in the future.
 
 Another option is the Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana (SSY), but it is only open to parents with daughter below 10. Accounts can be opened at any post office or designated branches of   banks and select private banks with a minimum investment of Rs 1,000. It calls for a minimum yearly investment of Rs 1,000, and has an investment limit of Rs 1.5 lakh in a financial year. You can open accounts for up to two girls but the total investment amount cannot exceed Rs 1.5 lakh. The account matures when the girl turns 21, though up to 50% of the corpus can be withdrawn after she is 18. The SSY offers 8.5% interest, and enjoys the same tax benefits as the PPF. But there are restrictions on withdrawals and a longer lock-in period.Like the PPF, the interest rate of the scheme might be cut in the future as interest rates come down. The bigger problem is that opening a Sukanya account may take up to 2-3 days and another 3-4 days for the cheque to reach the account. Many taxpayers may not be able to beat the 31 March deadline.
 
 For senior citizen taxpayers, the Senior Citizens' Savings Scheme is the best tax-saving option. It offers 8.5% returns and the interest is paid out every quarter. The scheme is for five years and can be extended for a period of three years once it matures. The account can be opened in any post office branch and designated branches of PSU banks and select private banks. However, there is an investment limit of `15 lakh per individual. Investors who have already hit that limit should look at other tax-saving options such as PPF and NSCs. At 8%,   offer close to 50-75 basis points more than FDs, and the interest earned on them is also eligible for deduction under Sec 80C.
 
 
 
 
 Five-year bank deposits score when the deadline is very close. They are perhaps the easiest way to save tax if you have a Netbanking account. A few clicks of the mouse and your tax planning is complete. However, this convenience comes at a very high cost. Interest rates have dropped significantly and the best fixed deposit is offering 7.5%. The bigger problem is that the interest is fully taxable. It is added to the nvestor's income, and taxed at the marginal rate applicable to him. In the highest 30% tax bracket, the post-tax yield is close to 5%.
 
 Tax-saving fixed deposits are suitable for risk averse investors, especially senior citizens who might have already hit the `15 lakh ceiling in the Senior Citizens' Saving Scheme and don't want to lock money into PPF account.
 
 
 
 Some experts say that tax savings should not be the only reason to invest in a particular instrument. The National Pension System (NPS) has generated a lot of interest among taxpayers after the introduction of the additional tax deduction of `50,000 under the new Sec 80CCD(1b). However, the   is a retirement product and locks up money for the very long term. If you are 30, the investment will mature in at least 28-30 years. Even then, only 40% of the corpus will be tax free. Another 40% will have to be put in an annuity to earn pension that will be taxed as income.
 
 Financial experts also say it is better to pay tax than invest in the NPS to claim tax benefits, since NPS has a restrictive investment mandate and isn't likely to match the returns of equity funds. However, compared to debt instruments such as NSCs and bank fixed deposits, the NPS is certainly a better investment option.
 
