New Delhi: The   (NGT) on Thursday directed public sector oil companies to stop plying tankers carrying petroleum products, which are BS I or BS II-compliant, in Delhi and the rest of NCR. NGT was hearing applications filed by various contractors seeking registration of BS IV diesel vehicles, purchased to transport petrol from the company premises to various petrol pumps in Delhi-NCR.

 It also barred the contractors from plying these old diesel vehicles, saying that managing directors of the oil companies will be personally responsible for the compliance with NGT’s order. “We direct that all the vehicles of these companies, which are working under different contracts in Delhi-NCR and the diesel vehicles, which are admittedly more than 10 years old and are BS-I and BS-II compliant, shall be withdrawn forthwith from the road,” a bench headed by NGT chairperson, Justice Swatanter Kumar said. 
 
 The bench also directed the managing directors of the companies to come up with a plan as to how more than 10-year-old diesel vehicles can be phased out. “As far as the BS-III compliant vehicles run by the contractors are concerned, within two weeks from today, the managing directors of all the three companies, along with representatives of the contractors, shall hold a meeting and submit to the tribunal a complete programme regarding phasing out of all the diesel vehicles, which are more than 10 years old and are BS-III compliant. Registration for none of these vehicles shall be renewed by the RTO, Delhi and the RTOs falling in NCR,” the order said.
 
 Bharat Petroleum submitted to NGT that its contractors have 93 BS III vehicles, which are more than 10 years old.   said that the company’s contractors own 99 vehicles, of which 30 are BS II and 69 are BS III compliant.   (IOC) claimed its contractors had about 640 diesel vehicles—two vehicles BS I, 622 BS-II compliant and 16 BS-III vehicles.
 
 The tribunal referred to the SC’s recent order banning the sale and registration of vehicles, which are not BS IV compliant. Auto makers claimed they had an inventory of about 8.24 lakh vehicles, which would be affected by the SC order. “Besides the order passed by the Supreme Court, the notification dated February 23, 2012...also provides that only BS-IV compliant diesel vehicles would be permitted to ply in Delhi-NCR and further restrictions in that regard were imposed. The special commissioner (traffic police), Delhi, shall ensure compliance with this order without delay,” the NGT order stated.
 
 Meanwhile, the tribunal disposed of applications by municipal corporations and others to allow registration of new BS IV heavy vehicles. NGT allowed their registration with a condition that these vehicles must be BS IV compliant, GPS enabled and must be used only for carrying or handling municipal solid waste.
 
