NEW DELHI: Does   help alleviate symptoms in allergic   (AR), a  ? After denouncing any such suggestion for years, medical researchers seem to be positively inclined towards the claims. In a recent study published in The Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine (TJACM), researchers from India and abroad have conceded that homeopathic treatment may have small beneficial effects on the nasal and ocular symptoms of AR.

 Allergic rhinitis is inflammation of the inside of the nose. It can be caused by an allergen, for example dust, mould or flakes of skin from certain animals, say doctors. Due to increased pollution, doctors say, incidence of AR has increased in the capital. Infants, children and young adults are most affected.
 
 “Nearly 25% of all patients we get suffer from AR. Clinical experience clearly shows a positive effect. However, this is a rare occasion when review of research on its efficacy has found positives in alternative therapy,” Dr Kushal Banerjee, a homeopathic physician based in south Delhi said. He was part of the research team that reviewed evidences documented so far on homeopathy for AR. The other researchers included Robert T Mathie from   in London, Ceire Costelloe from Imperial College London and Jeremy Howick of University of Oxford.
 
 Homeopathy uses many animal, plant, mineral and synthetic substances in its remedies. Examples include galphimia glauca, a shrub found in tropical areas of Mexico and Central America, for AR. “Use of either galphimia glauca or a homeopathic nasal spray may have small beneficial effects on the nasal and ocular symptoms of AR,” the TJACM article concludes, with the rider that low or uncertain overall quality of evidence warrants caution in drawing firm conclusions about intervention effects.
 
 AR is usually a self-limiting condition that causes cold-like symptoms, such as sneezing, itchiness and red eyes. Most people have mild symptoms that can be easily and effectively treated but for some symptoms can be severe and persistent, affecting quality of life, performance and attendance at school and at work. In allopathic treatment, physicians prescribe oral or tropical anti-allergens, steroids and immune therapy. Many people opt for homeopathy because it is perceived to have lesser or no side-effects. However, in 2010, guidelines developed by scientists in collaboration with WHO recommended that AR patients should not be given homeopathic treatment.
 
 “AR is one of the most common conditions in medicine today, with some estimates putting the total number of patients at 500 million globally. The conclusions of our systematic review indicate, with caveats, that there may be a positive health effect of homeopathic treatment for this condition. This is of great significance to the population in general. It is also extremely relevant due to the current health concerns regarding air pollution and other allergens,” Dr Banerjee said.
 
 He added there is growing evidence to suggest that AR significantly increases the risk of development of bronchial asthma which further increases the importance of any intervention that may have a positive effect in the clinical management of AR.
 
 
