BHOPAL: Following failure on the government’s part to submit a timely reply, hearing for ‘merger agreement’ petition filed by a   was postponed for the 18th consecutive time by  .

 The petition, submitted by  , a resident of Bhopal, alleged that land mafias were into a scam running into crores of rupees in the name of ‘merger agreement’.   has also been named as a respondent in the case, which will now be heard after four weeks.
 
 During its last hearing, High Court had given an ultimatum to the state government to submit its reply in a case pertaining to disputed land vis--vis the Bhopal princely states   dating back to 1949.
 
 In 2004, Madhya Pradesh High Court had ordered an inquiry while hearing a different plea. A report, submitted by the then principal secretary (Revenue), Mala Srivastava said that there were serious doubts on legality of 2800 acres of land on which 14 villages were located.
 
 On August 31, 2004, High Court had ordered state government to initiate necessary action on the basis of this report. In 2011, the then district collector issued notices to the villagers but to no avail, after which the matter was brushed under the carpet. It was only in 2015 that Agnihotri filed a fresh petition seeking action on the basis of the high court order.
 
 He also moved an appeal before the court for directives to the state government for producing original copy of the merger agreement, to which the state has been unable to comply with so far.
 
 Earlier, in a separate case, Saif Ali Khan too had moved high court with royal properties worth thousands of crores belonging to last Nawab of Bhopal under threat of being confiscated under Enemy Property Act, 1968. He had sought stay on vesting of properties under the Enemy Act and listing of Nawab’s properties by state government.
 
 Saif’s grandmother Sajida Sultan inherited Bhopal State’s properties in 1961, making the Pataudi family the inheritor of royal properties. The dispute lies around Bhopal Nawab’s eldest daughter, Abida Sultaan, who was the apparent heir, but migrated to Pakistan in 1950.
 
 There are some 40 personal properties of the Nawab listed in the merger agreement. VIP Road, historic Aishbagh Stadium, BDA and NRI colony in Koh-e-Fiza, Ginnori, Talliya, MLB college, registrar office Shahjehanabad and Islam Nagar are some places listed as Nawab’s properties, said sources.
 
