CHENNAI: The   (EC) on Friday said that   by   is a “major problem“ in   with   coming in that cash and gift items had been distributed to the voters by candidates.

 In a press conference held in Chennai, deputy election commissioner Umesh Sinha said, “The EC will at all costs stop (voter) inducement activity,“ before adding that the role of the voter is crucial in preventing election code violations. “Voters should not accept gifts,“ he said.
 
 To questions on whether the EC had received complaints relating to cash distribution by candidates, Sinha confirmed that there were complaints.
 
 However, he failed to elaborate on the particulars instead maintaining that “the legal division of the EC is examining the complaints“.
 
 Sinha said fresh instructions had been issued to the District Election Officer following the complaints. “The DEO will launch a `vote is not for sale' campaign from to day ,“ he said, to promote ethical voting practices.
 
 The EC official added that the commission had instructed the election observ ers and the DEO to involve the local resident welfare associations in a bid to curb inducement of voters. “Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) will play an important role,“ he said.
 
 Election observers would meet the local RWAs at convenient locations and promote awareness and would keep a track and monitor election malpractices, Sinha said.
 
 CCTV cameras would be installed at sensitive points as well as in and around the poll booths. To promote transparency , 100% webcasting of the polling stations would be attempted in RK Nagar. Sinha said the EC had recruited student volunteers and NCC cadets to conduct a door-to-door awareness campaign promoting ethical voting.
 
 Sinha added that the EC had deployed a sufficient number of police personnel to watch the influence of anti-social elements on voters.“Tamil Nadu has a huge tradition of not having violence during the poll process,“ Sinha said, adding that the commission would provide additional central police forces if the need arose.
 
 
 
 
 Chennai: The Election Commission on Friday transferred four officers from RK Nagar constituency, including the electoral registration officer (ERO) and the assistant returning officer, to uphold free and fair election ethics. The officers include H5 New Washermenpet police inspector S Ramesh Babu and H3 Tondiarpet police inspector N Balakrishna Prabhu.
 
