Campaigning came to a climactic close on Monday in the fiercely contested battle for Lucknow, which at last count seems to be headed for a tight finish. The major parties —BJP, SP, Congress and the BSP —rallied fast and furious from the weekend— the holy city of Varanasi, PM Modi’s Lok sabha seat, their battleground in the main.

  The BJP has had nearly 25 Union ministers make Varanasi their hub for the final phases before Modi’s final three-day blitzkrieg of rallies and special visits. The much-revered Kashi Vishwanath temple, no stranger to VVIPs, saw   drop by for a high-voltage darshan on Saturday, followed hours later by Congress vice-president   and   chief   and wife and MP Dimple who stopped their “vikas rath” mid-way for a darshan. It’s been close to two months of an energetic campaign complete with slogans, barbs, bites and unsavoury comments. When elections were announced on January 4, the Samajwadis were embroiled in a nasty family war amid speculation that the party’s bicycle symbol may be frozen. But Akhilesh’s victory on the family front and SP’s unprecedented alliance with Congress changed the narrative. The alliance – with a 31% vote share even during the 2014 Modi wave ahead of the Lok Sabha polls and bolstered by two young faces – emerged a formidable force, making the contest a three-cornered thriller.
 
 The chemistry between Akhilesh and Rahul made the alliance of the two outfits – so opposed to each other in the past – possible. Their five roadshows and four joint rallies apart from their solo ones – Rahul had over 50 and Akhilesh over 230 – were big draws. For the BJP, out of power in UP for 15 years, it was more than a semi-final before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The results will verily be a mid-term appraisal of its performance in the past two and a half years. While party chief Amit Shah’s booth level management has started a year in advance, the party distributed tickets going deep into caste calculations, permutations and combinations. Its thrust on ‘winnability’ forced the party embrace a large number of turncoats as nominees, sending its own cadre into a sulk at a number of places.
 
  Mayawati’s BSP – smarting after a total wipe-out in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections – spotted an opportunity in the SP’s intra-family fight and played on the front foot, positioning itself as a strong alternative to Muslims to defeat BJP. Her core Dalit votes combined with that of 20% Muslims, believes the BSP chief, will enable her party to reach the magic figure of 202.
 
 But once SP-Congress combine was in place, BSP’s Dalit-Muslim equation didn’t appear as formidable. This was seen in the minority-dominated western UP and Rohilkhand districts: the community voted for both BSP and the alliance, depending on the candidate best placed to defeat BJP. 
 
  In west UP, BJP unleashed its fire power: Yogi Adityanath and Keshav Maurya who raised issues of ban of slaughter houses, triple talaq among Muslims and love jihad, in a bid to polarise voters. Heightened counter-polarisation among Hindu voters after the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots had ensured a clean sweep for the saffron party but sentiments this time around were not so communally surcharged. Besides, Jats, who rallied behind BJP in the LS polls seemed miffed that their quota demands hadn’t been met.
 
 
