NEW DELHI: Delhi remains an unsafe city for road users after dark once the police presence dwindles to a minimum, underlining the urgent need to improve enforcements past midnight. Though traffic police data shows an overall fall in the number of fatal accidents in the city, figures for accidents at night have not changed much. And, shockingly, the errant driver is traced and booked in only 10% of these cases. 

 Last year, 1,532 incidents were reported at night, in which 557 people died. Traffic police officers say they expect the figures to dip following a drive to check the movement of heavy vehicles at night.
 
 The curbs on night entry of trucks have brought down accidents on highways, but unmonitored colony roads continue to be accident prone. 
 
 Police sources said plans to monitor such roads with   cameras remain on paper. “We have come up with programmes to encourage private citizens to install CCTV cameras so that technology-based policing can be introduced even at basic levels,” said a police officer.
 
 Police officers say that around 1,000 cops are deployed in the city after 10 pm, but they are mostly posted at the border posts and important road junctions. When the police carried out an assessment of road accidents that took place after sunset, they found that 75% of the fatalities occurred at the smaller crossings on key arterial roads that were designed to be high-speed corridors.
 
 Most of the night accidents take place between 9pm and 4am when police presence is limited. Experts blame speeding, drunk driving and lack of concern for the safety of others for these mishaps. “Many drivers speed during this time and have to slow down abruptly when faced with a situation. This leads to a pile-up,” explained K K Kapila from the Indian Road Federation.
 
 Studies by the traffic police and IRF show that in 90% of accidents, the victim dies or his condition turns critical because precious moments are wasted with people, according to an officer, “generally avoid contacting the PCR despite assurances that they won’t be harassed”.
 
 Traffic officials say that 50% of the fatalities involve pedestrians and two-wheelers users. The ministry of road transport and   have started providing free reflective tapes to cyclists. Besides such measures, say experts, the government also needs to plug the loopholes and stiffen penalties in hit-and-run cases. 
 
 
