GURUGRAM: Good news for vintage car lovers, 'The 21 Gun Salute International Vintage Car Rally & Concours Show' is back making a buzz in Delhi-NCR.

 The largest vintage car rally of the country poised to be on the Global Vintage Rallies map is only getting bigger and grander every year. This year, the event theme on February 17 and 18 at Delhi's Red Fort will display the rich heritage and culture of Haryana with a pavilion specially designed to mark the celebrations of  .
 
 The 7th edition of the show plans for a royal rendezvous with hand-picked, rare & premium – Vintage & Classic, Indian & International cars and motorcycles with major participation from USA, France, Germany, Italy & UK. Along with a sensational display of vintage beauties from venerated collectors and car enthusiasts, the audience will also experience the classic & vintage car race on Sunday 19th February at the renowned hi-tech Buddh International F1 Track in Greater Noida.
  
 Excited about the upcoming Vintage car rally, Madan Mohan, Founder & Managing Trustee, 21 Gun Salute Heritage & Cultural Trust said “The 7th edition of vintage car rally will be organized at a much larger scale and is expected to have more eye balls than the previous editions owing to the enthusiastic and stylish atmosphere. With nearly 100 hand-picked vintage & classic cars from India, Germany, France, US, Italy & UK, this year’s rally will be grander than the previous editions. The vision of the event is to place India as a world-class global motoring tourism destination!”
 
 “Several Indian & International Vintage cars from across the globe are awaiting fans of the 21 Gun Salute International Show. The spectacular three day event will commence on 17th February and culminate on 19th February. India’s leading Vintage car rally is leaving nothing to be desired and is a show for experiencing the most classic style with the presence of royal families; great food amazing music and lots of vintage/classic cars and bikes will make this the talk of the town.” added Madan Mohan.
 
 “This year’s event is even more special on 17th & 18th February at the Red Fort. There is going to be a pavilion to mark the Haryana Swarna Jayanti. It will give the audience the perfect flavor to the local culture of the state. Haryanvi folk dance and Haryanvi folk music will only make it an enthralling experience and a day to remember!” says Madan Mohan.
 
 21 Gun Salute International Vintage Car Rally & Concourse also show boasts of being the first vintage show in a series, where cars participate from across boundaries of the Indian subcontinent. “Every year, as a tribute to the golden era of the automotive industry, we organize this International Vintage Car Rally & Concourse Show & this year, on the 17th and 18th of February, 2017 - the display of Vintage/Classic Cars & Concourse Show at the Red Fort, will be inaugurated in the presence of stalwarts of the corporate world, Vintage Car aficionado across the globe and erstwhile Maharajas. We have received great support from International Tourism Boards & the Ministry of Tourism and Hon'ble Minister of State, Culture and Tourism (Independent Charge) and Civil Aviation.” said Mohan.
 
 The spectacular vintage & classic cars will be accompanied by 25 bikes from all over the world and the exclusive Maharaja Cars, gripping musical & dance performances along with presence of royalty and the great Indian food – certainly takes this occasion to the hilt.
  
 Besides, showcasing the rich automotive heritage to the world, the rally has also taken up a social cause every year. Previous editions have supported for example the welfare of spastic and blind children, ‘Save the Girl Child’ etc. Keeping with this tradition, the 7th edition will support the welfare of spastic children.
 
 The vintage drive will witness rare cars dating from pre-war era to the glorious time of 1965, hailing from the exotic lands of Germany, United Kingdom, Italy, France and USA. One of the very precious and exclusive vintage car on display would be 1911 Silver Ghost from London.
 
 
