DEHRADUN: With each passing day, dissent within the Congress over granting of tickets to   (PDF) lawmakers is on the rise. Recently, party members raised slogans in front of chief minister   and state chief Kishore Upadhyay targeting   and minister  , who is said to be eyeing a Congress ticket from Lal Kuan. On Friday, members of the ruling party’s Tehri district unit held a meeting and claimed that Upadhyay was the deserving party candidate and if he refused it the ticket should be given to a party member rather than PDF leader Dinesh Dhanai.
 
  The situation is even more worrisome for the Congress at Devprayag, where three-time MLA and former minister   was the party candidate in 2012. However, with speculation of the ticket being given to Independent legislator and minister Mantri Prasad Naithani, Sajwan has stationed himself in Delhi to ensure a party ticket.
  
  However, Sajwan admitted that the chances of his getting a ticket for that seat were “extremely bleak”.
  
  “I will contest from Devprayag. I have been preparing for the seat for the last four years and now I do not have much time or options left,” he told TOI.
  
  According to sources, Sajwan is planning to float a political party if he is denied a ticket from the Congress. They maintained that Sajwan had applied for tickets from three assembly seats but some party seniors wanted him to opt for another seat, where the possibility of his winning was low.
  Making the situation worse for the Congress is talk of Uttarakhand Kranti Dal (UKD) MLA and minister Pritam Singh Panwar getting a ticket from the Dhanaulti seat. Senior Congress member Jot Singh Bisht, who is the state vice-president, has applied for the seat. In 2012 too the Congress had denied a ticket to Bisht for the constituency and he had contested as an Independent.
  
  A senior Congress leader, who is also a member of the state organization admitted that the situation was getting tense within the party cadres. “Now a number of Congress members, especially those from areas which are being targeted by the PDF, are turning vocal and demanding that the tickets be given to a party member and not to the ally,” he added.
  
  Tehri Congress district chief Suraj Singh Rana said that the entire district unit was in favour of a ticket for Upadhyay. “In the meeting, we have decided that no outsider will be entertained. We are dedicated members of the Congress and under any situation only a party member should be given a chance to contest elections,” Rana said.
