Kolkata: Calcutta high court on Wednesday came down heavily on the Centre for dragging its feet over clearing the decks for construction of the East-West   tunnel. The court was hearing a plea submitted by Transtonnelstroy Afcons Joint Venture, the firm entrusted with the job of under-water river tunneling.

 The future of the Metro corridor has become uncertain as it’s still not sure which route the tunnel-boring machine would take once it reaches the Kolkata bank of the Hooghly. The TBM is just 90 metres from the bank. “The TBM cannot be stopped after it reaches the east bank,” Jayanta Mitra, appearing for Afcons, said. 
 
 On Wednesday, Justice Dipankar Dutta asked additional solicitor general (ASG) Koushik Chanda to make the Centre understand that public interest was at stake and the archaic law must be changed for greater good of people. Chanda had earlier apprised the court how the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act was preventing any construction within 100 meters of nationally protected monuments.
 
 “You must see that people’s money is utilized properly. Why did not ASI raise objection earlier? Why was the objection raised after the TBM started rolling? Why wasn’t the ASI objection conveyed to Transtonnelstroy Afcons?” Justice Dutta asked. 
 
 When Justice Dutta said a law must be change if it becomes a stumbling block for a project, Chanda said such change requires approval of Parliament. “Take necessary steps to do that,” Justice Dutta retorted. He then instructed Chanda to take instruction from the Centre and appear before him on Friday.
 
 Earlier, an IIT-Kgp study had concluded there wasn’t any possibility of the Metro construction damaging the monuments. The then ASI regional director (East), Phanikanta Mishra, then sent a recommendation to the chairman of National Monument Authority for the final NOC for the alignment. But strangely, things changed after Mishra retired. ASI raised the issue again, setting aside the IIT-Kgp’s report.
 
 
