NAGPUR: The   ( ) has slammed the Mamta Banerjee-led West   and Pinarayi Vijayan-led Kerala governments for allegedly making attempts to terrorize Hindu society by resorting to violence. The Nagpur-headquartered organization lauded the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government for surgical strikes and demonetization. 

 It also appreciated efforts of ISRO scientists for creating a world record by putting 104 satellites into the space at one go. Directly blaming Pakistan, the saffron outfit added that “there are other countries that are creating hurdles in way of India becoming a strong and vibrant global power”.
 
 In the annual report published on its website, the pro-Hindu organization questioned the role of public representatives of ruling parties in Bengal and Kerala for their failure to curb attacks on Hindus, terming it as “suspicious and doubtful”. 
 
 “It’s expected that the governments in both these states would take initiatives to ensure just behaviour and create an atmosphere of peace and harmony,” the report for 2017, published by Sarkaryawah Suresh (Bhaiyyaji) Joshi, said.
 
 The report was presented by Joshi during its RSS National meet of Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha (ABPS) in Coimbatore on March 19 and was put for the public on its website a couple of days ago. The RSS also claimed that the number of shakhas have jumped from 56,569 last year to 57,233 this year till March.
 
 Commenting on the situation in Bengal, the RSS said it has remained a victim of Left violence for years and was “yearning for a change following the ouster of the Leftists from the power”. “However, ever since the transformation of power, the attacks on Hindu society have increased in most serious manner. Be it an incident of Malda or gory attacks in Dhulagarh, they have caused a serious concern for the Hindus. The naked appeasement of Muslims by those in power, and administration remaining mute spectator, reminded the events of the past. There is a need to look at all such happenings with seriousness.”
 
 Terming the situation in Kerala as “worrisome”, it added that there was a sudden rise in attacks on activists associated with RSS-inspired organizations, after Leftists’ victory in the assembly elections. “These attacks exposed their most barbaric and inhuman face. Children, women, elders, and youths, all have become victims of these brutal attacks. Besides killing of individuals, destruction of crops, industries, and houses were also carried out indicating the hateful, intolerant mindset,” the RSS said, adding that it was the duty of those who come to power by democratic means, to ensure safety and security of common citizens and instill faith in them.
 
 Defending India’s surgical strikes against terrorists in September last year, the right wing organization blamed Pakistan for raging a proxy war against India that forced the government to take proactive steps. “Instead of controlling anti-India activities, Pakistan is granting shelter to anti-Bharat forces, strengthening them and continuing firing along the border. In conducting strikes, the government used its strategic expertise to the highest possible level so that Bharatiya soldiers returned successfully after completely destroying terrorist hideouts inside the Pakistan border. We congratulate all our soldiers and officers for this heroic deed.”
 
 It added that the centre has indicated its strong will power and also successfully turned the global opinion against Pakistan resulting in cancellation of   conference to be held in Islamabad.
 
 On demonetization, the RSS said it was a bold move after which a different “Bharat” has emerged. “It’s true that common people faced some difficulties and that was most natural. But they’ve shown immense restraint, patience and patriotism, which is commendable. The move taken to curb black money, fake currency and terrorism was in the right direction and must be welcomed and lauded,” it said, while adding that only time will tell about efficacy of this decision.
 
