AHMEDABAD:   on Thursday dealt another blow to former BJP MP,  , when it transferred to the state CID (crime) the investigation of a second case of assault in Kodinar, allegedly involving him.

 Justice   ordered the state’s top probe agency to take up investigation on an FIR regarding the assault on an RTI activist   which occurred on December 12. The high court pulled up the local police and commented: “The less said about Mr Solanki, the better.”
 
 The direction was issued on a petition filed by Makwana’s mother, Dahyiben, who alleged that police were not investigating against Solanki at all after registring the FIR. Her advocate, Anand Yagnik, demanded formation of a special investigation team for impartial probe in the case.
 
 The petitioner submitted that after RTI activist Amit Jethava’s murder, her son, Mahesh, has been fighting a lone battle against the illegalities allegedly being committed by Solanki and his associates in and around the Gir forest. He came in confrontation with Solanki and was brutally beaten up on December 12 by the BJP leader’s henchmen. Mahesh sustained multiple fractures and underwent surgery. In the last three years, Mahesh has expressed before the high court on various occasions, perception of a threat to himself.
 
 The petitioner complained that Solanki is on trial for Jethava’s and a majority of witnesses had turned hostile due to threats and pressure. Solanki continues to be a mining mafia and those who try to expose his involvement in illegal mining are assaulted, the petition says. 
 
 Further, police do not write his name in FIRs. The police have institutionalized the system of keeping and treating him above the law, the petition says.
 
 Though the FIR specifically mentioned that the assault was at the instance of Solanki and those involved in the attack were known friends and mercenaries of Solanki, no investigation took place against him and his nephew, Shiva Solanki.
 
 Earlier this week, the HC tore into the administration for “genuflecting” before the powerful and for shielding Solanki in connection with another case, in which Solanki led a mob during an attack on one Rafiq Salot in Kodinar town. The HC ordered CID (crime) to investigate this case too.
 
