NEW DELHI: Colleagues of former coal secretary  , who was convicted last week for cheating and criminal conspiracy, are trying to convince him to seek legal assistance and are exploring the possibility of roping in a noted lawyer to tackle the larger implications of the verdict, which has jolted the bureaucracy once again.

 Gupta, described by many as an honest officer, has so far refused any legal assistance and his former colleagues said the retired IAS officer is not keen even now. 
 
 In August, Gupta had conveyed to the court that he wanted to withdraw his personal bond and the authorisation to his lawyers, and to face further proceedings from jail. The court has asked him to reconsider his decision, and also offered to arrange free legal aid in view of his stated inability to bear the financial burden of defending himself.
 
 The verdict of the CBI court is seen as a fresh blow to the bureaucracy with officers saying decision making would be affected if one person has to pay for decisions taken by a committee and where there is no evidence of any personal gain.
 
 Gupta, former joint secretary K S Kropha and then director in the coal ministry K C Samaria were held guilty by the court for irregularities in allocation of a coal block in Madhya Pradesh to Kamal Sponge Steel and Power Ltd (KSSPL).
 
 Gupta was investigated by the CBI in 10 cases under various provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, but the agency did not find evidence against him in seven cases. It had filed chargesheets in three cases accusing Gupta of not following guidelines.
 
 The basic argument is that as chairman of the screening committee set up for recommending allocation of coal blocks to private companies for setting up power, cement or steel plants, he failed to follow the prescribed guidelines, and that the responsibility for this rested squarely with him.
 
 Apart from the coal secretary, the committee had representatives from other departments, state governments, coal ministry, Coal India and other agencies.
 
 In addition, the screening committee was a recommendatory body, with the decisionmaking power with the minister.
 
 “The committee only decided based on the facts submitted to it and it is not possible to check each and every fact that is presented before it. In addition, the guidelines did not require the panel to do so. If you start checking facts in each case, decision making will come to a halt,” said a source. Based on these facts, some of the decisions were approved by then PM  , who also held charge of thecoal ministry.
 
 “The committee, and the procedure framed for its conduct, arise from administrative decisions whose violation cannot attract criminal liability,” said a source.
 
 
