Author   wrote the fastest-selling series in Indian publishing history, 'The  ' followed by the 
  which is the first book in the  . 
  was a blockbuster book of 2015. Roughly two years later Tripathi is set to release the second book in the Ram Chandra series, titled, 
 . He recently revealed the title in a Facebook live session along with Union Textile Minister,  .
 
 We met Tripathi in New Delhi to know more about his upcoming book, 
  and what to expect from it. He told us that the second book is about Sita's story from the time of her birth till she was abducted. While it narrates Sita's story, it is however, "not written in her perspective," informed the author, whose books have been translated into 18 Indian and international languages and have sold over 3.5 million copies.
  
 Considering the title of the book, it seems that Sita would be seen as a warrior princess and a feminist in it. When asked about this Tripathi said, "Of course! The perception of Sita as a devoted wife is the one which was portrayed in the 1980s or in Valmiki's 
 . I have portrayed her as a warrior, a strong woman. Strength here doesn't necessarily mean physical strength. It means being mentally strong as well, to have the ability to stand up and face challenges. Sita, in this book, has feminine power." 
  
 The author further added, "In Vedic 
 the male and female gods are addressed as '
 '. Whereas, if you notice in the books now, the male god is written with a capital 'G' whereas the small 'g' is used in the case of goddesses. Here's where you can see the discrimination begin. In ancient India, Rishikas wrote scriptures. This shows men and women were considered equal, which is what feminism is all about."
  
 Tripathi recently disclosed that the first three books in the five-book Ram Chandra series would tell the stories of Ram, Sita, and Ravana from their birth till the incident where Sita is kidnapped. The fourth and fifth books in the series would then have a common narrative, taking the story ahead. On being asked about how he got the idea of writing the series using such non-linear narrative technique, he said, "I don't know, it somehow struck me. I had watched this Japanese movie called 
 directed by Akira Kurosawa, where the same story is shown through various characters and it might have inspired me. It is a common narrative style."
  
 While the Shiva Trilogy humanized Lord Shiva, would the Ram Chandra series do the same— highlighting both the postive and negative points of both characters? Tripathi answered, "Ram represents the way of life of laws. As a leader he followed the rule of law in his life, which is good for the society but challenging for the family. However when it comes to your family, the rule of love applies to them. This would be seen in the book. There were many such people in history too— they were good men and their laws or way of living may have been good for the society but it affected their family life, be it Buddha or Gandhi," 
  
 The 43-year-old author had previously shared that he has been reading four to five books a month for several years now. So when asked about his favourite book, he said, "I mainly read non-fiction books. Talking of favourite books, there are plenty of them. So whenever I am asked about my favourite books, I always mention my favourite books I had read in the recent past. I liked Sanjeev Sanyal's 
  and the Meenakshi Jain's, 
 , which I'm currently reading. It depicts a research on the practice of the sati and how it started in India. If you know, sati is not in our scriptures. So how did it come about in our culture?" 
  
 While   Tripathi is known for writing mythological-fiction, few know that the author is also writing his first non-fiction book. Talking about it he said, "My non-fiction book is a compilation of my articles, speeches, and thoughts on the challenges India is facing currently. It would be out by around August this year.
 
 "But then fiction is what I love to write!", Amish added in on a parting note.
 
 
