AHMEDABAD: The Japanese expression ‘Konnichiwa’ and Gujarati ‘Kem chho’ have a similar resonance and serve the same purpose — they are used as a greeting. On Wednesday, the two cultures greeted each other amid great conviviality and pomp as the city extended a spectacular welcome to Prime Minister   and his guests,   prime minister   and his wife Akie Abe. 

 The VVIPs embarked on a road show whose route was lined by the display of the highlights of Indian culture. The show has entered the Golden Book of World Records for the largest number people dressed in various traditional Indian attire. The format of the welcome was a dazzling departure from convention.
 
 The Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International airport abounded with life-size cut-outs of  .   landed at around 2.30pm and took stock of preparations. The Abes arrived at 3.29pm and were greeted by Modi and governor O P Kohli. This is the Abes’ maiden visit to Mahatma Gandhi’s homeland. Modi escorted Abe to a group of Buddhist monks who chanted ‘Buddham Sharanam Gacchami’ in benediction. 
 
 Abe was then given the guard of honour by the three wings of the Indian armed forces. When the Abes exited the airport, people were bowled over by their sartorial transformation: Abe had changed into a kurta-pyjama ensemble with a Nehru jacket while his wife had donned a kurta-salwar with traditional bandhani print. 
 
 Modi and the Abes began the road show in an open vehicle. Crowds cheered them on with effusiveness, drawing warm smiles from both PMs. The first tableau that the visitors saw represented  . It was placed near the GUJSAIL terminus. Modi was seen explaining the scene on the tableau to Abe.
 
 
 
 
 The state’s first woman DGP, Geetha Johri, was in Kochi to participate in World Senior Badminton Championship. The top cop had to leave the tournament midway for the high-profile bandobast in Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar. Sources said that the DGP had a few matches scheduled, but she came back on September 12 to take charge of the overall bandobast.
 
 
 
 
 The open vehicle for the Indian and Japanese PMs was all set to go for the cultural roadshow in Ahmedabad with Narendra Modi and Shinzo Abe having taken position in front of the vehicle. At that time, Modi invited Japan’s first lady on board the vehicle, making space for her.
 
 
 
 
 Around 1,200 kids from Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) run schools lined both sides of the road to welcome the roadshow for the two PMs, Shinzo Abe and Narendra Modi. The kids waved flags of both the countries and were prepared with pot, coconut and Asopalav leaves to welcome the prime ministers.
 
 
 
 There were various stages showing cultural and dance performances where only security personnel and BJP workers could get access. Common citizens were not allowed near but BJP worker could just show a receipt-like card from the party and were allowed to stand near those stages. Insiders said MLAs were given responsibility to bring large number of citizens.
 
 
 
 
 The already high-strung police personnel were at their wit’s end when they had to deal with stray dogs and a person with mental health issues. About 30 minutes before the convoy of PMs reached Subhash Bridge on Wednesday afternoon, a stray dog suddenly came on the road. Policemen struggled to keep the canine within bounds before they could shoo it away. A similar incident also took place near Sidi Saiyed mosque in the evening. Likewise, a man with mental health issues was whisked away from outside Sabarmati Ashram by security personnel.
 
 
 
 
 On the route of the roadshow near Sabarmati Ashram, people from different religious groups and sects thronged to welcome Modi and Abe. Participants included Dawoodi Bohra, sects of Jain community, followers of Swaminarayan sect, disciples of Sri Sri Ravishankar, Terapanth Samaj, and Brahmakumari members along with Patanjali Yogapeeth. Members of Rabari community were also invited.
 
 
 
 
 Owing to security reasons, Ahmedabad One Mall has been kept closed for two days i.e. on Wednesday and Thursday, as Japan’s prime minister, Shinzo Abe, who is visiting Ahmedabad, will be staying at Hyatt Hotel, located right outside the mall. Jayen Naik, vice president of the mall said they had been notified about this a week ahead of the PM's visit.
 
 Spectacular Welcome, Unprecedented Camaraderie
 
 
