He carved a niche for himself in films at a time when   and Kamal Haasan were in their prime, and became the Captain of the Tamil film industry. Now, a full-fledged politician,   says that he doesn’t miss cinema and is focused on his political career. In an interview with Chennai Times, the veteran looks back on his days as an actor, his health, the likely political entry of his contemporaries, and the memes made on him. Excerpts: 

 
 I am fine. I have been having thyroid problem, and that has affected my vocal chords. This is natural. So, you should tell me how I am now.
 
 
 I am feeling good. Otherwise, will I be able to come to my office? I come here daily.
 
 
 My wife and my sons are usually around me. My elder son is into dogs, snooker and badminton, while my younger son wants to act. I am usually at my office, if I’m not touring and attending party rallies. I go home for lunch and my wife serves me food. I have a separate table at home for dining. I have always eaten sitting down on the floor, but of late, I have been eating at the table. I use the A/C when it is hot, but otherwise, I do not use it. The electricity bill also increases, no?
 
 
 In those days, it was all about acting and nothing else. I used to act in films or watch films all day. ‘Why did they marry me to you,’ my wife would ask sometimes.
 
 
 Yes. But now, all my thoughts are about political problems and solutions to them.
 
 
 Not at all. It was in the past.
 
 
 Yes, I’m content. Also, I decided to move away from cinema on my own, before people shoved me away, though I am now acting in my son’s Tamizhan Endru Sol.
 
 
 We are currently in discussion stage and it will take a couple of months. The shoot will definitely start in January.
 
 
 I have achieved those, I think. When I made my entry, there was so much resistance towards me because I have dark skin! I acted with everyone who initially said that they would never act with me. I acted in the films of everyone who said they would not direct me. Isn’t this what success is? I think so.
 
 
 I do watch new films, but these are mainly Hollywood films dubbed in Tamil. I saw The Mummy recently. The guy who keeps running… Tom Cruise. He is a favourite hero of mine. I also saw another film.
 
 
 No.
 
 
 Because I don’t even watch my own films. I have acted in 150 films, and right from my initial days, I haven’t seen my films. I have not watched Senthoorapoove yet, so you can imagine. The film’s director, Abavanan and I had a misunderstanding at that time, and though we have resolved our differences, I have not seen that film. I didn’t have time then. Now, I do have the time, but I don’t watch my films.
 
 
 I am involved in politics now, not in the industry.
 
 
 Why should I say anything? Right now, Vishal is an office bearer in two associations. Which side will he support? But I have chosen not to comment on such things, because if I say something it would be construed in a wrong way, so I give my opinion only when mediapersons like you ask me.
 
 
 My wife and my elder son take more interest in his career. They are the ones who listen to scripts for him. I listen only when they ask me to. Recently, a director called Kumaran narrated a script, and it was good. I ask Shanmugapandian what he thinks of a script and leave it to him.
 
 
 He and I are different, no? Let him come up on his own. Anyway, people will bet money on a horse if it runs, right?
 
 
 Vijay’s growth is in a different level. Let my son also come up. I am grooming him to become a big star. He has hurt his leg now, let him recover and come back. Now, people are expecting that his second film will run. But who knows which film will be a success? 
 
 
 Why should you think that it is being forced? Maybe some people in   aren’t taking it in the right spirit. Perhaps that is a way of encouraging patriotism in people. Take Modi’s Swachch Bharat initiative... Only when we start talking about it now, it will become a habit later. In fact, my wife and I talked about cleaning up our locality first. When we did it, people cleaned up on that day, but is it enough to clean up on one day alone?
 
 
 I don’t see any of those things. Still, if I am accepting someone praising me, I should also accept these things. My sons will tell me about stuff on WhatsApp and Facebook, but I just don’t care about those memes made on me. 
 
 
 They would be angry. But I tell them too that you feel happy when I’m being praised, so accept it when people make fun of me. 
 
 
 Actors who want to enter politics should prove themselves to the public. 
 
 
 You are asking about this because Jayalalithaa is no more and Kalaignar isn’t active anymore. But their parties still remain. I opposed them when I made my entry, and I continue to do so. Vijayakant will always ask questions if something affects the common man. 
 
 
 What can you do when people win by distributing cash? 
 
 
 Vijayakant will do it. I have the confidence that I will be that alternative. 
 
 
 There will be no change. 
 
 
 Let them come. Everyone can enter politics. I am not scared because I have fought against Jayalalithaa and Kalaignar in the political arena. 
 
 
 I do not want to join hands with anyone. Let them start a party first. Why are you rushing into this question before that? We can talk about this once they do that. And why don’t you ask them the same question? But every journalist is scared about asking them this question. They are good people, they won’t bite you. 
 
 
 Who are my friends in the industry? Cinema was my only friend. 
 
 
 That’s because I was busy shooting for films 24x7 and did not socialise. I loved shooting for films day and night. In fact, in those days, when arcs lights were visible in any part of the city, they would say that either Mohan, Nalini, Ambika or I would be shooting. That was how I was in those days.
 
 
