COIMBATORE: The city wore a festive look as residents, both young and old, immersed in colours, celebrated Holi on the weekend. 

 Various   had organised elaborate parties to mark the occasion. Families also celebrated it in the traditional manner by visiting temples and making delicacies at home.
 
 Holi is celebrated on two days, said  , a member of the  . On the first day, rituals are performed and on the second day, people play with colours. Every year, north Indian communities here organise   in which a fire is lit using dried cow-dung cakes and rituals are performed to mark the the  .
 
 “We organised an event at the   on Thadagam Road on Sunday. Women performed a puja in front of the fire and applied colours on each other. We will play with colours on Monday, the main festival day,” Bharat Gupta, secretary of the Aggarwal Samaj, told TOI.
 
 Alka Mittal, a homemaker, said she made a sweet called gujia and a snack named mathri for Holi. “We make these two as they are a part of the tradition. Every other type of festival food is available in shops these days,” she said.
 
 Holi is a festival that brings people together, said Heena Kotecha, another reveller. “We believe that the festival removes all negativity and brings positivity in our lives. Around 150 close friends organised a party at the Punjabi Association on Saturday. We went to a temple in the evening and later, applied colours on everyone, even on strangers. We make new friends this way,” she said.
 
 Monika Lunia of Terpanthi Mahila Mandal said they celebrated the women’s day and Holi together this year. “We organised entertainment programmes and invited a poet from Bengaluru. We also prepared organic colours using flowers, saffron and rose water. We plan to celebrate the festival with the patients of Arokyalaya in Saibaba Colony on Monday,” she said.
 
 The Jain community in the city also celebrated Holi. “Just like Raksha Bandhan, sisters do a puja for brothers on the day of Holi. Brothers visit their sisters and celebrate the festival together,” said Prem Latha, a homemaker.
 
 Not to be left out, youngsters from the communities attended parties held in city hotels and painted the town red.
 
