NEW DELHI: The   has kick-started an exercise to determine the number of additional trial judges that would be required to wipe out in five years the 2.6 crore cases pending in lower courts.

 A bench of Chief Justice T S Thakur and Justices D Y Chandrachud and L N Rao asked the states and the high courts to take steps in accordance with the interim report submitted by the National Court Management System Committee (NCMSC) to enhance strength of judges in trial courts.
 
 “The enhancement of the strength of the district judiciary should be such that a `five plus zero'   is achieved (wiping out the backlog with a target period of five years),“ the bench said. Taking note that the   had approved sanctioning Rs 9,749 crore for setting up of more courts and getting them infrastructure, the SC asked the state governments to provide necessary financial and infrastructural support to enable the HCs create the means for speedy disposal of pending cases. Terming these directions as interim measures in the big fight against pendency, the bench asked the NCMSC to formulate by December 31 a scientific method for determining the basis for computing the required judge strength of the district judiciary .
 
 A recent study by Supreme Court's Centre for Research and Planning (CRP) had pointed out that as against a sanctioned strength of 20,558 judicial officers, there was a short age of 5,018 courtrooms and 8,538 residential accommodation. The judge per million population ratio was one of the lowest in India with 18  . The same was 147 in China, 102 in USA, 56 in UK and 48 in Australia, the study pointed out. CRP had come out with interesting statistics. It said to deal with the backlog, the Indian judiciary would require 14,597 judicial officers in the next three years in addition to the sanctioned strength of 20,558 trial judges.
 
 It also did a long term projection on requirement of trial judges employing three different methods -human development index (HDI), literacy of population and normal growth -relatable to growth in litigation. Under HDI method, it said, India would require a total 75,594 judges by the year 2040.Similarly under literacy method it would need 85,734 trial judges and normal growth of litigation would require 42,561 judges. Quoting the CRP report, the bench of Justices Thakur, Chandrachud and Rao said: “The present strength of judicial officers is able to complete trial in approximately 13% of cases brought for trial under IPC each year.
 
 “The cases brought for trial is seven times more than the number of cases in which trial is completed every year.“
 
