JODHPUR: The   of the state Deepak Uprety has assured the   of public-friendly working of the police at the police stations and in entire force at large.

 Uprety gave this assurance in the high court on Saturday in person during the hearing of a suo motu petition pertaining to the deteriorating law and order situation of Johdpur.
 
 The division bench comprising Justice   and Justice   had summoned Uprety with a complete plan to address the deteriorating law and order situation of the city and near by areas.
 
 Uprety told the court that the state government was doing everything possible to restore public faith in the administration in Jodhpur.
 
 When asked about the plan, Uprety told that the state government has planned to initiate both long-term and short-term plans for peace and congenial situation in the city.
 
 “The short term plan included increased effective patrolling, security barriers at key points and public-friendly behaviour in police,” Uprety told the court.
 
 While in the long-term plan, Jodhpur will also have a command and control centre very soon after Jaipur and Kota in order to keep a sharp eye on the criminal activities in the city.
 
 A budget of Rs 25 crores has already been sanctioned, under which 800 cctv cameras will be installed at different points of the city and nearby areas. These cameras will be functional for 24 hours.
 
 Uprety also assured the court that the state government will provide every possible assistance as desired by the district administration for effective steps to address the deteriorating law and order situation in the city.
 
 Satisfied with the assurance, the court directed the officials to take immediate steps to curb the criminal activities organized as well as stray in the city of Jodhpur and its nearby areas.
 
 “The Government shall expedite its short term plans and wound up all the miscreants, who are causing injuries to the public faith through their criminal activities. We are of the view that effective steps in this regard are highly desirable,” ordered the court listing the matter for October 3.
 
 
