BENGALURU: About 1,150km from the city, resting sleepily in Sompeta mandal, Srikakulam district in   is the tiny village of Palavalasa. Although a veritable hamlet with a population of just 3,000 – 1,700 of whom are male – Palavalasa’s presence can be felt and seen in some of India’s biggest cities.

 Nearly 80% of the male population of Palavalasa work as scavengers across the country. In fact, two of the three scavengers — Yeraiah aka Yeriyappa and Davita Naidu — who died of suffocation after entering a manhole in east Bengaluru on Monday night were from Palavalasa.
 
 On Wednesday, the villagers were in Bengaluru to collect the mortal remains of Yeriyappa and Davita. They said that scavenging was a hereditary profession, one that they had been carrying on for generations together. While the men work in the cities, the women stay home and manage the household. A few women also work as wage labourers in road laying projects.
 
 Chinna Madi Reddy, who has come to Bengaluru from Palavalasa, confessed to being ignorant of the Supreme Court’s judgement banning manual scavenging. “We have been working as labourers, it could be in construction, road work,  , etc., for generations. Scavenging skills of my father and my grandfather were much appreciated. Contractors would come from cities such as Hyderabad looking for them. But yes, the money we are paid is never commensurate with the risk and hardship we encounter,” he added.
 
 Numbing their senses with liquor was the only defence against the overpowering stench amid which they worked, Reddy said. “The stench is so strong that it lingers long after we have completed work, and we have no option but to remain drunk. We used to bathe in Nilgiri oil after entering a pit to rid ourselves of the smell. But, this is rarely being done off late,” he said.
 
 While deaths of   trigger outrage and shock among those in urban areas, Palavasa villagers accept it with a sense of resignation, mingled with anguish. “Nobody in the village has heard of safety gear such as masks. We lower an earthen lamp into the pits to see if there are any toxic gases. That’s the only practice we know of,” Reddy said.
 
 He admitted that quite a few men from his village had met their deaths in manholes and pits. “But I don’t have the exact number,” Reddy said.
 
 Karthik Reddy, another Palavalasa resident, said that contractors and middlemen from the metros visited the village to ‘select’ them. “They enquire about our experience, and our wages are fixed based on that. The tragedy is that the pay is not regular, and middlemen take huge sums as commission,” he added.
 
