

 A play about two people in love, but married to others, seemed enough to pique the interest of Pune’s theatre audience; what with Bal Gandharva Rangmandir’s box office buzzing with anticipation ahead of the recent staging of Sharman Joshi’s debut Hindi directorial, Main aur Tum. 
 
 When your story centres around extramarital relationships, a subject that’s formed the base of several films and plays (like Raell Padamsee’s play  ), and has often been abused, you know you need to tread with caution. But Main aur Tum, featuring Sharman and Marathi actress  , is different in that sense. Adapted from Bernard Slade’s 1975 romantic play, Same Time, Next Year, it attempts to look at the subject through a different prism, one that’s free of judgement.
 
 Kolkata-based chartered accountant Siddharth (Sharman) and Malvika (Tejashri), a poet from Mumbai, spend a night at a Dalhousie inn. Their first meeting sees them promising to meet on the same day every year to pursue this romantic tryst. And what starts off as ‘lustful’, gradually transcends into a mature relationship over 25 years. 
 
 Like the 1975 play and the 1978 American film adaptation, this play too shows these annual meetings through five-year time-lapses, which seems like a major challenge the story throws. As a storytelling device, it requires build-up to justify itself. The characters need to truly establish a rapport to want to come back a year later, that too without staying in touch through any form of communication. This play in perspective alone, somewhere falls short of establishing this, and getting the audience to root for the couple to meet again. We meet the characters every five years. Much water has flown under the bridge. A lot has changed in their married and personal lives. Though each meeting is replete with light moments by itself, there’re several life-changing events to take stock of in one go — from birth, to relocation to death.
 
 Though their chemistry takes a while to grow, Sharman and Tejashri complement each other well. Sharman lends wit, while Tejashri seems to have stepped into Malvika’s shoes smoothly, considering she previously revealed how learning Hindi and understanding the character were challenges. But though both are shown to age with time, it does not come across easily.
 
 If there’s something the play needs to be commended for, it is for giving scope to look at ‘clandestine relationships’ as not just being about lust. Without being preachy, it gives room for narratives about relationships existing beyond our sphere of what’s morally acceptable. Packed with light moments, Main aur Tum is a delightful story, as long as you’re willing to suspend disbelief at certain points.
 
