Chennai: On March 31,  , a content website, posted a   on what would happen when Reliance Jio stops service using a scene from a Bollywood movie. Within 24 hours, the post gathered over 2 million views. This is the power the next generation online marketing driven by memes. 

 When Richard Dawkins coined the word "meme" in his 1976 bestseller ‘The Selfish Gene’, little did he know that his coinage would become an internet rage. From Pierce Brosnan and his infamous Pan Bahar ad to India Today’s cover photo with Baba Ramdev, it’s not just humour or trolling that memes convey. These quick and witty messages are being used by big brands including Panasonic, Reliance Jio, Cavin’s Milk, Air Asia and Tata Motors to garner the internet audience’s attention.
 
 Memes can be an image or video, seemingly light hearted, loaded with a message. In the age of social media, digital marketers are hiring professionals to create these memes. “All one needs is basic software like Paint and movie knowledge. They need to be able to identify what clicks with youngsters. We even announced recruitment of meme engineers through a meme,” said Lokesh Jey, CEO, The Sight Media.
 
 The success of a meme lies in how succint it is. “If a meme can’t be consumed in less than a minute, the chances that it will be viewed and shared will be less,” said Shashank Vaishnav, cofounder, Wittyfeed. 
 
 With memes finding traction on Facebook, brands tap   pages with a good following, to fetch the reach required at a price ranging from Rs 500 per meme. While Facebook pages charge on a per-meme basis, digital marketers charge as part of the marketing initiative. Jey, for instance, owns 130 pages on Facebook which command a viewership of almost 12 million. 
 
 Memes are created on a range of topics from current affairs to politics and cinema. Santhosh Palavesh, a digital marketer says,“For movies, close to 75 memes are posted per film and atleast 100 memes per day must be posted for politics. Also, for films, number of memes must increase closer to the release date. It takes a few minutes to make a meme, but it is quite a task to package everything within a picture and be different.”
 
 Digital marketers say brands are conscioulsy allocating budgets for meme marketing after witnessing its power. Jey of Sight Media says while videos have a conversion rate of 1%, memes are garnering a whopping 10%. Put Chutney, a Chennai-based channel of Culture Machine posted a meme for World Idli day which got 8,000 likes, while the video had close to 1,000. 
 
 “Last year, we decided to design an entire plane with Kabali poster which was recieved well. The Sight Media suggested creating memes with the photos which were picked up by Rajnikanth fans. This oncept delivered a huge reachfor AirAsia’s promotions,” said the Air Asia spokesperson.
 
 The challenge for marketers is to keep their Facebook pages alive by posting memes on a regular basis, whether it is a paid project or not. “1 out of every 15 memes we put out are related to a product. What is important is to keep the viewership hooked onto your page,” said Jey. Put Chutney posts 3 memes every day on their Facebook page.
 
 Social Beat, a digital marketing firm, adds meme marketing to a bouquet of services they offer to brands that target younger audiences — school and college goers. “For Cavinkare, we had used film and entertainment-related memes, drawing references from Dangal or series like The Game of Thrones, which resonate with the audience. They have a wider reach compared to static pictures or ads,” said Vikas Chawla, co-founder, Social Beat.
 
 Just as quickly these memes go viral, they can be damaging, says Jey of Sight Media. “We are very careful of the brands we work with. The idea is not to assasinate anyone’s character or show them in bad light. When I hire meme engineers, they are taken through the protocols and terms involved before they take this up,” he said.
 
 
