Deedarganj in  , our first stop. Thousands of people wave from below. They are here to meet “hamare chaheete rail mantri (our dear railway minister)”. That is  , telecom minister, MoS for railways and Ghazipur MP. Om Prakash Rajbhar, president of the Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP), has come along and has made the crowd swell.
 
  The two men hit the ground running. Rajbhar is the first to engage and he does that in his inimitable style in warm Bhojpuri. “Kaa bhaiya! Koi laptop-smartphone milal kaa? (So, people, did anyone of you receive any laptop or smartphone?)”
  
  “Naaahiiii,” is the response, in perfect unison. That’s the cue to go in for the kill. “Ab piraat ba! (Now it must be hurting)! Ee log revadi bhi cheen-cheen ke baatat hai (These people distribute even sweets after identifying one’s caste). Ab ee baar aapan galti dohrai ka naahi (Do not repeat the mistake of electing this party). UP ke Sappu miya aur Dilli ke Pappu miya se bachna ka chahi (Beware of UP’s Akhilesh and Delhi’s Rahul). Ek se mahtaari pareshan, ek se pita pareshan (The mother is fed up with one, and the father with another).”
  
  Soon it’s the turn of the BSP to be at the receiving end of Rajbhar’s jibes; it, of course, doesn’t matter that he was with   in the last assembly elections. “Ek bakhat mein haathi peepal ka patta khaat ba, aaj-kal rupiya khaat hai — toh kaha se motaai (There was a time when the elephant used to feed on foliage but these days it is swallowing money — no wonder it is not gaining weight).
  
 Aaj Modiji ki leher jo Noida se chali, woh Poorvanchal tak aate-aate tsunami ban chuki hai, jo Sapa-Basapa ko Hind mahasagar ke oo paar jaa phekegi (The Modi wave that emanated from Noida has transformed into a tsunami by the time it hit Poorvanchal; it will wash away the SP and the BSP across the Indian Ocean).”
  
  The crowd is by now hysterical, with many recording the speech for after-laughs. Almost half of those gathered sport bright mustard turbans — a sign
  of being a follower of Suheldev, a legendary warrior king who stopped the invasion of Mohammed Ghazni’s nephew in the region.
 
  
 
  The Rajbhars represent one of 17 extreme backward classes in UP and constitute 18% of the population in eastern UP and 2.5% in the country. BJP chief Amit Shah unveiled a statue of Suheldev and launched a book on him in Bahraich district in February. The rail ministry, at the initiative of Sinha, also started the Suheldev Express to send the message far and wide.
  
  The SBSP is contesting eight Poorvanchali seats in alliance with the BJP, whose other partner in the state is the Apna Dal faction led by Anupriya Patel, which is fighting in twelve seats. While Rajbhar is in the fray from Zahoorabad in Ghazipur, his son Arvind has staked claim from Bansdih seat in Ballia.
  
  It's now time for the main show, and the junior rail mantri gets into the act. "Aaj kal TV par do hee vigyapan dikhte hai -- Baba Ramdev ka utpaad aur Akhilesh ki sarkar (These days only two ads are visible on television: one of Ramdev's products and another of Akhilesh's government).
  
  Vigyapan jaisa sukhi-sampann kisan aap mein se kisi ne dekha hai? Maine ab tak ki beeso sabhao mein ek aesa chehra nahi dekha (Has anyone of you seen such prosperous farmers like in the ad in real life; at least I haven't in the scores of rallies I have attended)." If anyone does, he declares he will quit politics and serve Akhilesh for life. The gallery erupts.
  
  The junior rail mantri's next station is  . "The credit for starting the world's first invisible metro goes to Akhilesh." The rally by now resembles a comedy club.
  
  The crowd is swelling and Sinha is elated. "This is the same venue that Akhilesh visited yesterday -- the crowd today is more than one and a half times, I have been told," he tells ET Magazine, pointing towards Nizamabad, our second stop in Azamgarh.
  
  After the by-now-familiar Rajbhar hijinks, Sinha invokes Kalyan Singh. "Remember what he used to say: begunah to chhedo matt aur gunehgar ko chhodo matt (Do not touch the innocent and do not let go the culprit)."
  
  Eastern UP's 49 assembly went to the polls yesterday. The last phase of 40 seats will be contested onMarch 8. The belt is also home to the Quami Ekta Dal (QED), led by the jailed Mukhtar Ansari. The QED merged with the BSP last month.
  
  Sinha's next stop is Mohammedabad in Ghazipur to campaign for Alka Rai, the widow of slain BJP legislator Krishnanand Rai. Ansari, the prime accused in the murder, is fighting for Mau Sadar constituency from jail.
  
  Sinha corners the Ansari brothers (the others being Afzal and BSP candidate from Mohammedabad Sibgatullah). Sinha says the beneficiary of the BSP-QED alliance -- as well as the SP-Congress tie-up -- is the BJP. "The Muslim vote will now split between the SP and the BSP, in effect giving us the advantage," Sinha tells ET Magazine, just before the chopper is about to land at the day's last stop at Zamania in Ghazipur.
  
  Sinha is a Bhumihar, the community that represents 8% of Poorvanchal; he knows the importance of OBCs as well. Today, non-Yadav OBCs and non-Jatav Dalits are also with us."
  
  As the whirlwind tour comes to an end, it's time to fly back to Babatpur airport in Varanasi. Sinha sits back and declares the party is going to win in all the six seats of Ghazipur. It's been a long day. The days leading up to March 11 may be even longer.
