BHOPAL: Come to think of it. A staff of two at the   (RTO) is tasked with checking 12 lakh vehicles in Bhopal city! Senior officials at RTO say 1983 was the last time when recruitment in the department was done in the state. Thereafter, it has been a series of reminders from the transport department, from writing to finance department to either fill up vacant seats to requesting authorities for extra staff, But all pleadings and entreaties, it appears, could not stir authorities into action.

 RTO officer pleading anonymity said, “In 1983, there were only 1 lakh vehicles in the state. After 34 years, 12 lakh vehicles run in Bhopal alone.” He said against the staff of two of the rank of assistant   and constable, the requirement is of three inspectors six sub- inspectors, six head constables and 12 constables. 
 
  There are more than one crore vehicles in the state, but staff is still the same. Many retired, but no fresh recruitment has taken place since then.”
 
 According to officials, a field staff of 100 of SIs, 43 inspectors and 30 constables is required. However, sources in Bhopal said they were unaware of the existing staff in the state.
 
 The officer said, “We have sent the request for staff, but the state government is not giving us the permission to do so. As a result of which we can’t do anything.”
 
 Officials claimed due to lack of staff, the aim to check drives conducted by RTO for 15 days, can be achieved only in six months. 
 
 Problem of lack of staff is not only at the level of enforcement, it is also evident in the administrative work,too. According to sanctioned post,records of year 1983, the seats vacant in the Bhopal RTO office are 1 junior accounts officer, 1 stenographer, 1 statistician, 1 assistant statistical officer, 1 accountant, 9 assistants grade 3 and 4 peons, as per the sanctioned list 34 years ago. “The present day requirement has gone up manifold,” said sources in the RTO,adding, “We have been asking for extra staff from government, but they denied us anyway here sanctioned seats are vacant so there is need to fill that first.”
 
 Shailendra Srivastava, transport commissioner, said, “We have sent the proposal to government for filling vacant posts and creating new post to match the growing population and   It is pending from government side. As soon as it gets approved, we will recruit the staff.”
 
