MAHMUDABAD: A bus with around 25 students has just wheeled into the magnanimous fort of Quila Mahmudabad early Friday morning and after a 15-hour journey from Haryana based Ashoka University, wide eyed students have set afoot the sleepy land of Mahmudabad in Sitapur district. Decked in black and white slogans recounting the tragic tale of  , it is not just the architectural exuberance of the fort that meets the eyes of the undergraduate students from varying disciplines of study alone on the 8th day of the Muharram.

 For most of them studying political science, international relations, history, literature, philosophy even Maths and economics what beckons their deepest interest is the sight of Dalits and Muslims including both Shias and Sunnis standing together as they shouldered the Alam of   (standard symbolic of  's brother) as the over centuries old traditional juloos (procession) passed through narrow lanes of the town.
 
 The taboots (symbolic coffins of the martyrs) and the Zuljinah (symbolic horse of Imam Husain) are also part of the procession flanked by camels taken out in the backdrop of the Shehnai tunes based on ragas signifying mourning and drum beats.
 
 It is early morning at the Mahal Sara (female wing of the fort) and women of the family of the erstwhile Raja of Mahmudabad are reciting Nauhas (laments in the moemory of Imam Husain and the martyrs of Karbala). Hair left open as sign of mourning, five Imambaras inside the women's section cordoned off from male entry except the Raja and his two sons are greeted with the taboots before the procession is taken out.
 
 Walking barefoot on the rugged path under the bright sun, Raja Mohammad Amir Mohammad Khan of Mahmudabad with his zareeb (wooden staff) is reciting elegies as the procession moves. Wearing a solemn look on his face, 20-year-old Sparsh Agarwal walking right behind him has question driving his curiosity deeper.
 
 "What's baffling is the fact that Shias script the history of a battle they lost year after year, when it is usually the victor we know who writes history. We have been told by Prof Ali Khan Mahmudabad and his father, the Raja, that even when it would seem Imam Husain, Prophet Mohammad's grandson, lost the battle of Karbala in 680 AD, it was indeed a victory of right over wrong and that has lived by through times," he said.
 
 As the Zuljinah passes through the estate, number of mourners has increased including people of all religions and faith who have congregated to feed the Zuljinah as a mark of respect. In the procession, Rakesh and his relatives have been beating the drums all big and small all through the day and until night till the procession crosses the entire estate, makes a trip to five Imambaras around town and over 500 homes, to reach back the Quila late at night.
 
 Zainab Firdausi another 20-year-old student at the university studying policitcal science and belonging to Kolkata is also experiencing the first of her Muharram encounters. "The feeling is surreal even when I have been taking a course on the critical concepts of Islam back at the university, the amalgamation of cultures and religions, all really respectful of the Imam and Karbala martyrs is extraordinary," she later said.
 
 As the procession continued to move through narrow lanes, Ali Khan Mahmudabad, their teacher and his father Raja of Mahmudabad keep briefing the students about the rituals they were performing, about the tragedy of Karbala and its concept.
 
 Proud of the fact that Hindus and Muslims have in unison been commemorating Muharram since ages now, Raja Sahab recalled an incident of communal harmony from his mother's time. "Once during her time, the eighth of Muharram and Ram Navmi fell on the same day. A delegation of Hindus approached her to seek advise on how both processions will be meted out peacefully. She then sent her message to the delegation saying that she had two sons, one Hindu and one Muslim, of which the Hindu son is elder and will be respected by the Muslim son. So the Ramdol procession will be taken out first before the Muharram juloos.'
 
 The day following the procession of 8th Muharram, marks another ritualistic procession where apart from Muslims, Hindu women of the town fast for three days and stand in front of the Taziya for 24 hours straight singing traditional dohe on the matryrs.
 
