CHANDIGARH: Amid a spate of robberies and bank lootings as well as the threat from gangsters at large,   have now formed WhatsApp groups to build “trust and share” information between cops and public. The district selected for the pilot project is Jalandhar.

 It was Jalandhar-based gangster  , who had masterminded the Nabha jailbreak, along with missing goon   and others. Besides, the police have also decided to rope in youth, who will be equipped with body cameras in Faridkot for police-public interface to understand and address grievances. The initiatives have been taken by ADGP (law and order) and 1988-batch IPS officer Rohit Choudhary. The police have also decided to focus on crimes against women in Amritsar.
 
 “In Amritsar, a battery of women constables have been posted as women liaison officers in colleges. The availability of women should be must in police stations or elsewhere, considering Amritsar has seen many crimes against women,” says a note prepared by the law and order wing of the state police. 
 
 In 2012, a major controversy had erupted after SAD leader   had killed a Punjab Police ASI Ravinderpal Singh while the cop was protesting against him for harassing and stalking his young daughter Robinjeet Kaur. Rana was later sentenced to life imprisonment.
 
 The police have already transferred as many as 159 top cops, including 31 from Amritsar (rural), while gauging complaints of their alleged involvement in drug trade this year. “We are also setting up big reception rooms in police stations of Amritsar and Majitha and separate police control rooms in parts of Patiala. Besides, we are taking big initiatives in big towns like Ludhiana, where traffic is a problem. The focus is to regulate traffic in such areas than just issuing challans and installing video cameras at key locations,” said Choudhary.
 
 Choudhary had earlier taken the initiative to re-open and examine all cases involving use of .32 bore and 9 mm weapons in the last five years amid criticism of Punjab Police on being unable to solve any case related to assassinations or Maur terror attack over the last two years.
 
