GHAZIABAD:  , the newly elected BJP legislator from  , is the man with the highest victory margin across all 970 assembly constituencies in the five states of the country that went to polls in February and March. 

 He trounced his nearest rival,   of Congress, by a whopping margin of 1,50,543 votes.
 
 Speaking exclusively to TOI, Sharma (55) said he had no special strategy in the run-up to the polls because of the fact that his party cleared his name for Sahibabad barely two weeks before the polls. 
 
 Sharma’s candidature had been declared on January 22 along with that of Pankaj Singh for   while candidates for the remaining six seats of GB Nagar and   were declared on January 16.
 
 Sharma said he would push for connectivity between the under-construction Metro stations in Noida’s Sector 62 and Mohan Nagar in Ghaziabad. He plans to do this at a meeting of all five elected MLAs and the Lok Sabha MP from Ghaziabad that is to be held after BJP forms the government in Lucknow.
 
 “A plan of action for the city over the next one year will be worked out. We will work according to the plan to show tangible results to voters. My priority will be to push for the Metro connectivity. It will improve connectivity in the NCR as never before. A special financial package for development of Khoda Colony will also be planned,” Sharma said.
 
 Sharma said, “I had very little time to plan a strategy. But the efforts I made in the field over the past five years following my defeat in the assembly election of 2012 from Sahibabad seem to have paid off. I had personally visited more than 25,000 families in Sahibabad in these five years and spoke to them about the work that needed to be done in Sahibabad.”
 
 Sharma, who belongs to Patla village of Modinagar, is a lawyer and has been elected to the UP legislative assembly for a second term. He was elected for the first time to the assembly on a BJP ticket from the Ghaziabad seat in 2007.
 
  He lost the 2012 poll from Sahibabad roughly by 24,000 votes to Amarpal Sharma, who was then with BSP.
 
 “Following my defeat in 2012, I decided to get in touch en masse with the general public in Sahibabad. I undertook a signature campaign for provision of potable Ganga Water supply to the Trans-Hindon region of the city. There were more than 2 lakh signatories to the campaign,” he said.
 
 
