Pune: The Bombay   has held that a civil court has the power to call witness while conducting an inquiry under Section 340 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). The bench also held that in calling such witness it was not a requirement to hear the person against whom the proceedings are going to be initiated. 

 Justice Mridula Bhatkar of the high court recently dismissed a writ petition by the Union of India challenging two orders passed by a civil court in Pune on January 11 and February 16, issuing   to Pune district collector with directions to submit certified copies of the revenue record, mutation entries and acquisition proceedings in relation to a 28.16 hectare land at survey no 233-A in Lohegaon. 
 
 The impugned (under challenge) orders were passed in response to a suit initiated by builder Haresh Milani, who has claimed ownership of the land. 
 
 During the trial, Milani filed an application stating that the Union of India made a false statement on oath in its written statement that it had acquired the land under the Acquisition Act in 1970. As such, the Union of India committed a cognisable offence under Section 195 CrPC and prayed for an inquiry by the court under Section 340 CrPC. 
 
 In another   filed on October 4, 2016 as part of the suit, Milani sought directions to the collector to produce the documents in respect of acquisition proceeding of the suit property. The civil court allowed the plea in the first impugned order on January 11 and issued summons to Pune district collector for producing the relevant documents. 
 
 On February 16, the civil court passed the second impugned order turning down the Union of India’s plea for recall or review of the January 11 order. The Union of India had argued the collector was not given a hearing by the trial court before the order was passed. The Union of India then challenged these two orders in the high court, arguing that the same were illegal, not tenable in law and the civil court had no right to use powers under the CrPC to call or recall a witness. 
 
 Justice Bhatkar, after referring to the legal aspects of an inquiry under Section 340 CrPC, held that no interference was required with the two impugned (under challenge) orders by the Pune civil court. “The civil court while conducting the preliminary inquiry or conducting other proceedings under the CrPC, enjoys similar powers of a criminal court under CrPC for the purpose of the inquiry,” the bench observed.
 
 Manish Milani, the builder’s representative, told TOI, “Consequent to the HC judgment, the collector will now have to produce the documents before the joint civil judge senior division at the next hearing on June 17.”
 
 
