HYDERABAD: The Nizam VII,  , who founded   inspired by the modern educational systems in Japan and other countries, was unhappy over the falling academic standards in the premier educational institution in the first seven years of its birth. The Nizam made Urdu the medium of instruction to promote scientific temper through local language, but ironically the university had turned into a sort of stage for literary forum with 'sher' and 'shayiri' (poetry) flourishing. 

 The decade was 1920-1930. Except for 'Wah, Wah' (heaping praises) and 'Irshad' (request for repeat) echoing the campuses (initially the university conducted classes from eight different places), nascent Osmania university could achieve nothing concrete on the academic front. The Nizam took a serious note of the fall in the standards and initiated measures to make   one of the leading universities in the then British empire.
 
 A perusal of the official records (Proceedings of His Exalted Highness the Government in the Judicial, Police and General Departments - Education) dated October 12, 1927 reveals that Mir Osman Ali Khan was not at all happy over OU's poor academic progress. In his report   Jung Bahadur, secretary to government, writes "Government notes with grave concern that the results of the university college are becoming worse every year." Zoolcadar then mentions the pass percentage in intermediate examinations for the years 1920 to 1926 and BA for 1922 to 1926.
 
 According to the Nizam government records, while 84.64 per cent of students passed the intermediate in 1920, only 44.86 per cent cleared the exam in 1926. In case of BA, while 84.60 per cent of students passed in 1922, only 46.43 per cent succeeded in the public examinations in 1926.
 
 The Nizam used to compare the academic performance of OU college with that of City Intermediate College ( ) in Hyderabad and Aurangabad Intermediate College. "As far as the intermediate examination is concerned the results shown by the University College are not at all satisfactory compared to those of the other (two) institutions," Nawab Zoolcadar writes directing the   to hold an inquiry to find out the reasons for the falling standards.
 
 Mir Osman Ali Khan was, however, happy over the performance of the Zenana Intermediate College (Women's College), which was then headed by Canadian woman Amina Pope. "Government notes with pleasure that the Zenana is justifying its existence," Zoolcadar said. This in effect means girls were performing better than boys even during the Nizam era.
 
