NAGPUR: Even as peak tourism season has started, the jungle complex at newly-opened gate of Bor Tiger Reserve at Adegaon, 55km from here on Amravati road, has turned out to be a   with no water and canteen facilities for tourists.

 The forest department’s jungle camp at Adegaon gate has five semi-luxury tents and two suites, 500 metres away from safari gate. The tents are equipped with double beds, wardrobes, chairs and clean bathrooms with European Water Closet (EWC) pan and have got a picturesque view with valley and hills around. However, as there is no water, the accommodation is lying idle. This is despite the fact that dam is close by.
 
 The Adegaon tourism complex was built last year and it was reinaugurated along with safari on December 16, 2016 by Maharashtra forest minister   in presence of Hingna MLA   and senior forest and mantralaya officials.
 
 It is not about only the complex not having water facility. The 3km road from Bor river to the safari gate is completely in a shambles and need to be tarred by the zilla parishad to boost tourism.
 
 “There was an attempt to draw water through a two-km long pipeline from a well inside the forest. However, water cannot reach the complex due to use of poor voltage electric motor and a 200-metre long upward slope. Attempt to drill a bore well too failed to fetch water. A bore well was dug at the complex but the water is not potable,” said foresters manning the gate.
 
 Of late, tourists have been frequenting Adegaon gate owing to regular tiger sighting, but those wanting to stay put complained accommodation facility is out of use. In both shifts, 12 vehicles are allowed inside but there are no attempts to market this gate.
 
 There are two entry gates to Bor — one from Hingni and another from Adegaon. Tourists have advantage of Adegaon gate as apart from increased tourism road length, it takes you straight to Bor dam waters where animal density is high including tigers. Over 131 sqkm Bor has presently has 5 adult and 6 tiger cubs.
 
 DFO SB Bhalavi says there are plans to develop Adegaon on the lines of Sillari (Pench). “Water availability is an issue and we need to install transformer and double-pole (DP) as a long-term solution. We’ve sought funds under Wardha DPDC. A canteen to be run by women SHG is planned,” said Bhalavi.
 
 BJP MLA Sameer Meghe says last year Rs55 lakh were allocated under DPDC under which complex and other facilities came up. “A two-lane bridge over Bor river is proposed at the cost of Rs3 crore. The tar road will also be constructed and all steps will be taken to boost tourism at Adegaon,” said Meghe.
 
 Eco-development committee ( ) members admit that not many tourists visit from Adegaon and more push is needed to provide employment to local guides.
 
 
