CHENNAI: A large colourful mural of a bull and its tamer welcomes customers as they ride up the elevator to the restaurant. Opened in a residential corner of T Nagar, the rustic-themed diner packs more than just elaborate Chettinad fare. It has a name that strikes a bell with locals.

 If jallikattu is the flavour of the season, restaurateurs are looking to make the most of the spirit of protesters who want the bull-taming sport legalised.
 
 And an eatery called ‘Jallikattu’ leaves little to the imagination — not least because its delicious Alanganallur special meals fly off the counter when there is a swell of customers. Several curious passers-by on Sunday stopped and did a double-take of a banner outside the restaurant that invited guests and dropped by to check out the menu.
 
 Another diner ‘Jallikattu - Flavours of Madurai’, in Nungambakkam, finds itself, unintentionally, in an enviable position because of the stir. The eatery is raking in the moolah because of the city’s most trending theme and packs nostalgia from the southern city into its cuisine as well as jallikattu-related trivia for customers to browse through.
 
 Embracing jallikattu long before the first wave of protesters made Marina the centre of action, these city businesses found the stir nudging them into the spotlight. To what do they owe this? Their support to the bull-taming sport and love of all things Tamil.
 
 While a large number of young students and office-goers were busy taking the state government by its horns to demand a permanent move to allow jallikattu to be held every year, staff members at both restaurants stayed up to cook meals for the crowd. Over the week, they distributed hundreds of parcels of food to the hungry protesters in the city.
 
 N  , who set up the ‘Jallikattu’ in September, recounts how he and his staff visited the protest arena after restaurant hours. “The protests raised many issues,” he said. “For example, we are considering the possibility of replacing colas and other aerated beverages with Indian brands.”
 
 Sandeep and  , who own ‘Jallikattu - Flavours of Madurai’ received heavy social media traction thanks to cross-tagging during a week of protests that saturated social media. In an attempt to bring their hometown cuisine and culture into the mainstream, restaurateurs will organise a programme next week that invites authors and showcases vernacular books on Jallikattu.
 
 “We want to create more awareness on jallikattu and why it’s an integral part of Tamil culture,” Sandeep said.
 
 
