CHANDIGARH: Cab-aggregator Uber continued to provide its newly launched bike-taxi service   in Chandigarh on Tuesday without any permission from the UT administration.

 A reality check by The Times of India revealed that even as the   (STA) continued to issue challans against bike taxis registered under UberMOTO, UBER continued to make the service available in Chandigarh. At different times of the day, TOI looked for availability of UberMOTO and even booked one. In all, 10 bike taxis were available for hire every time in and around sectors 8, 18, 17, 15, 12, 14, 38, 36, 22, and 35.
 
 When TOI asked Uber if the service would to be rolled back until UT finalizes a policy for bike taxis and if it would pay for the challans issued to bike taxis, the cab aggregator’s spokesperson did not give a direct reply. “We were testing a pilot of bike-sharing services in Chandigarh. We continue to engage with Chandigarh administration towards securing all necessary approvals to allow for MOTO to be scaled across this ‘city beautiful’. With the launch of MOTO in   by the Punjab government, we are hopeful of being able to demonstrate a workable model for the consideration of Chandigarh authorities,” Uber spokesperson said.
 
 STA officials said they would continue the drive against the bike taxis and issue notices to Uber if the practice was not stopped until UT finalizes a policy. “Any vehicle in violation of Motor Vehicle Act, including bike taxis, will be challaned. We do not have any mention in the Act to allow them. We have request from OLA and Uber in this regard and are looking into the matter. But until then they cannot ply in the city,” said STA additional secretary Rajiv Tewari.
 
 On Tuesday, STA had fined two UberMoto bike taxis for violation of the MVA Act, after TOI informed the department about these bikes plying on UT roads even before the policy was approved. It was then that a reality check was planned wherein TOI correspondents booked UberMoto and STA authorities issued challans to them on arrival.
 
 TOI had reported on Wednesday that when drivers were asked whether they were aware of the fact that they were plying illegally on city roads, they had shared that the company had been assigning them locations without any such information.
 
 
