JALANDHAR: Two days after his son was arrested in snatching case, Aam Aadmi Party inducted   councilor Bal Krishan Bali in the party fold on Friday. He was welcomed by Punjab affairs in-charge Sanjay Singh and state convener Gurpreet Singh Wariach at Chandigarh.

 Bali’s son Abhay was caught on the spot by people on Wednesday evening in the Pathankot Chowk area in Jalandhar when he allegedly tried to snatch purse from a person. However Bali said that his son was falsely implicated under pressure from a senior Congress leader as he had been opposing him and this case was a fall out of his political equations.
 
 According to FIR registered on the complaint of one Jagtar Singh on Wednesday evening he was standing along with his sister in Pathankot Chowk and was holding his sister’s purse. He alleged that Abhay, who was riding pillion on a bike, tried to snatch the purse but as he was holding the purse tightly it could not be taken away and Abhay fell down. He said that while the youth on the bike sped away Abhay was caught by bystanders and was then handed over to police. Later police identified the youth who fled on his bike as one Kunal, a local resident. Abhay was sent to jail by the police.
 
 Bali joined AAP in Chandigarh in presence of Sanjay Singh and Waraich on Friday. He was welcomed by   candidate Gulshan Sharma in the evening when he reached Jalandhar.
 
 When asked AAP Jalandhar Zone observer Rajiv Chaudhary said that they checked the details of the case at their own level and prima facie it came out to be a case of false implication due to political reasons. “The case was apparently stage managed against Abhay,” he said.
 
 When asked Bali said that his son was not guilty at all and had only taken lift on a youth's bike who actually attempted snatching. He claimed that he was opposing candidature of Bawa Henry from Jalandhar North constituency and that was the reason for his implication in the case. “I decided to leave Congress and joined AAP due to this false case,” he alleged. However Henry’s camp rubbished the allegations stating that they had nothing to do with the case.
 
 Bali and his two sons were earlier named in a murder case over a decade back and they had to spend a few years in jail but later they were acquitted in the case.
 
