NEW DELHI: The Central Bureau of Investigation on Monday examined former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh   in connection with an alleged land scam in Gurgaon, in which farmers were threatened with acquisition of land, triggered a panic sale of land to private builders at throwaway prices. It is alleged that farmers lost Rs 1500 crores in the panic sale.

 Official sources said that Hooda is one of the main accused in this case, which involves several bureaucrats as well.
 
 CBI had started a probe in the matter in 2015 and conducted raids in September last year in Delhi, Gurgaon, Panchkula, Rohtak and Chandigarh, including residence of Hooda, UPSC member Chattar Singh, who was former additional private secretary to Hooda, and the premises of a few private companies.
 
 During raids, CBI had recovered documents related to bank transactions worth Rs 1.15 crore conducted by Hooda and his family, as well as several properties.
 
 CBI sources said that Hooda was questioned about possible conspiracy with private builders, who purchased around 400 acres of land from farmers in Manesar, Naurangpur and Lakhnoula in Gurgaon district at throwaway prices, after the land owners had been made to believe their land would be acquired for a government project.
 
 “Initially, the Haryana government issued notifications under various sections of the Land Acquisition Act for acquisition of about 912 acres for a model industrial township,” said a CBI officer. Then, about 400 acres were allegedly bought by a few private builders from the owners on the premise that it would otherwise be acquired by government at meagre rates. “An order was also allegedly passed by the competent authority in the state government on August 24, 2007, releasing this land from the acquisition process, and licences CLU (change of land use) were issued to the private builders,” said the officer.
 
 CBI said that against a market price of Rs 1,600 crore for the 400 acres, the land owners received just Rs 100 crore.
 
 The CBI had raided ABW Infrastructure Limited, its founder director Atul Bansal and his brother Amit Bansal alongwith public servants
 
