AURANGABAD: The State Director General of Police  , who has recently asked each of the police units in the state to upgrade at least one police station to the level of 'smart police station' has made imparting of soft skills to staff, mandatory for bagging the badge of smart PS. Authorities maintained that the state police chief, apart from other clauses, has made this clause mandatory after taking a serious note of the most common complaint against policemen of being too arrogant and insensitive.

 A copy of the circular with TOI, for the police stations working on to bag the title, the DGP has asked to meet a long list of conditions in terms of technology, mobility, police behaviour, community relations, investigations, emergency response system, traffic management and maintenance of records.
 
 Under these heads, 60 specific conditions including having a reception, adequate furniture in good conditions, separate rest room for male and female  , lockup having enough ventilation and loo area, have been laid down by the DGP office, asking the respective unit commanders to fulfil them in a period of six months.
 
 The circular defines police as the one which is strict and sensitive, modern and mobile, alert and accountable, reliable, responsive and well trained
 
 The order, under the head of police behaviour states, All police officers and men working in Smart Police Station should be imparted with soft skills. The police should be polite, courteous, empathetic and sincere in their approach to the citizens visiting the police station.
 
 It further reads that the police should follow   guidelines in respect of arrest of a person. Special care should be taken while dealing with women at police station.
 
 Aurangabad commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar said, In any case, it is essential for all the policemen to be courteous and soft-spoken with the complainants visiting the police station. Though there have been some sessions for our men at the police control room but now we are planning to impart soft-skill training to our men across police stations.
 
 The DGP in his circular has also asked the policemen to have modern and scientific temperament.
 
 The other specific requirement in terms of technology at a given police station includes having CCTV system installed covering the reception room, lock up and interview room. The police station should also have updated computers having facilities including internet, printer, scanner, fax machine installed at the police station. 
 
 Importantly, as per the directives, the officers and the policemen should be using smart phones and mobile based social networking applications for 
 
 Aurangabad superintendent of police Navinchandra Reddy said, With an objective of going paperless, reducing communication gap and also contributing our bit in the digital India campaign, the police are expected to communicate via e-mail, WhatsApp etc.
 
 The officer said that so as to further promote it, the criterion has been included in the norms to be followed for the up gradation of police station.
 
 The police stations are also required to have adequate number of GPS enabled vehicles. The circular also asks to properly guide the illiterate and uneducated complainants.
 
 In terms of community relations, the policemen at these police station have been directed to have a dedicated team of policemen led by an officer and would engage the citizens in various police/security related activities. Various community outreach programmes should also be planned and executed for improving communal harmony. This team is also expected to conduct meetings in slum areas and address the issues faced by them.
 
 
