PUNE: It has not exactly been a delectable year for the king of fruits -mango. Not only has the demand for the   dipped in the  , mango exporters have also had to contend with lukewarm interest from abroad. Export demand for Alphonsos has dipped by 40% this season, industry sources said.

 Many factors have contributed to the fall in export demand -quality issues in some mangoes due to irradiation, Europe and Gulf countries being faced with a glut of mangoes from other exporting countries, and the delay faced by Indian exporters in seeking government approval for mango treatment facilities, among others.
 
 Mandar Desai, who owns a 700acre mango plantation in Ratnagiri, and also exports to Japan and the US, said demand for Alphonsosin the export market has dropped by 40%.
 
 “As per a directive, mangoes have to be subjected to radiation at 52 degrees Celsius to 55 degrees Celsius. By the time a consignment reaches the US, skin of some mangoes turns brown, which is not good for the brand,“ he said.
 
 Desai added that another reason for dip in export of Alphonsosis that competitors from Japan, Europe and Germany export mangoes to countries like the US.
 
 Sanjay Pansare, who represents traders at Vashi APMC's fruit market and is also an exporter, said the current mango season has perhaps been one of the worst in years. “The cur rent fall in demand has created a glut for export in March. But there are only a few takers for Alphonsosin Gulf countries this season,“ he said.
 
 Manoj Kumar Barai, another mango exporter from Mumbai, had orders worth 200 metric tonnes from Europe and over 800 metric tonnes from the Gulf last year. This year, he has no orders from Europe but has orders for 200 metric tonnes from the Gulf. “There has been a delay by the government in approving our treatment facilities for mangoes,“ he said.
 
 Vivek Bhide, chairman, Konkan Mango Growers Association, said that a 50% drop in export output in coming months is expected due to high temperature variations this year.
 
