BENGALURU:   is accustomed to hearing the word “no“. Wherever she applies for a job, she gets a standard response -we will get back to you. But they never do. The problem begins when she meets her  .

 Having undergone   after completing BCom last year, her physical appearance and name no longer match the photographs and name on her documents including SSLC, PUC and Bangalore University marks cards. Despite getting the name on her   changed, officials refuse to acknowledge her new identity. Now, the outcome of a civil suit will determine her ability to get her name changed. Until her name is uniform across all the documents, Jhanavi has absolutely no job prospects. “I have a gender change certificate from the hospital where I was operated upon. I also have a court affidavit verifying that I'm no longer a male, besides the newspaper adver tisement about my name change. I still I face humiliation when I apply for a job,“ says Jhanavi, who works with Samara, an NGO advocating for LGBT rights.
 
 When Jhanavi applied for a human resourc es position at a management consulting firm, she was asked to explain a the discrepancy in her appear ance and name on her school n and degree certificates. She was asked the same question by other firms too. Left with no op tion, she is pursuing MCom through distance education under her old name.
 
 “I only attend classes on weekends, and that too is a hu miliating experience. They have given me admis sion, but I can only study under my old name. They told me that all my documents must have my new name for them to incorporate it,“ Jhanavi said.
 
 Despite having requisite documents for a name change, she was told by PUC board and BU board officials that they won't accept the SC's 2014 judg ment in the National Legal Services Authority vs Union of India case, which recognized the fundamental and civil rights of transgenders. The SSLC board issued a statement saying they would not change the name unless the court decrees it. Having sent notices to all the institutions through her lawyer Savitha Ammusiddi, who works with Alternative Law Forum, she is awaiting their official response before filing a suit.
 
 “Even if I'm good, they won't accept me. I desperately need a job to support myself,“ said Jhanavi, a polyglot who's fluent in 10 languages.
 
 
 
 
 Over the years, governments have committed themselves to affirmative action and inclusive agenda as far as treating the transgender community is concerned. But the situation on the ground -as illustrated in the story accompanying this opinion -exposes huge gaps between the intent and its implementation. The 2014 Supreme Court judgment absolutely recognized the rights of transgender people and said they enjoy all the fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution. If names on passport, Aadhaar and voter identification slip could be changed without much hassle, why hasn't the government cleared the path in case of education institutions? The marginalized communities need felicitous recognition of their rights.
 
