Darjeeling/Siliguri: The entire Darjeeling district plunged into anarchy on Thursday, with arsonists setting ablaze a popular tourist landmark in the heart of Darjeeling town and a railway station in   while a state cabinet minister’s convoy somehow managing to evade violent protesters baying for his blood not once but twice on the same day.

 The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, as has become the practice, denied any responsibility and blamed “outsiders” , indicating that its leadership may not have any control over a large proportion of the agitators any longer. Pro-Gorkhaland supporters set ablaze the tourist information office at Darjeeling’s Mall, then torched the   railway station in Kurseong and after that a for-est bungalow near the Teesta. They then targeted state tourism minister Gautam Deb’s convoy twice near Mirik.
 
 The burning of the recently refurbished tourism centre may have come as a decisive blow to Darjeeling’s tourism industry, which has already seen thousands of holiday bookings for the latter half of 2017 go to Sikkim and even Nepal and Bhutan. For both vacationers in Darjeeling and its residents, this was the town’s window to the outside world, a major money-spinner and a popular meeting point.
 
 “This has sent out a wrong signal. We would get hundreds of tourists converging here every day, enquiring about places to visit in Darjeeling and on its periphery. We would also give out information about Foreign Registration Office and hotels and answer queries on the Hill town’s history,” a senior tourism official said.
 
 Earlier in the day, protesters led a siege on the state tourism minister’s convoy near Panighatta in Mirik. Deb had a close shave while he was on his way to attend a programme held to commemorate the 200th birth anniversary of Nepali poet Bhanu Bhakta, who has become the rallying point of the   communities demanding a separate Gorkhaland state.
 
 “Protestoes put up blockades at several points. They burnt tyres and also placed huge stones on the way in a bid to disrupt vehicular movement. They tried to stop my vehicle at two points and attacked the police vehicle in front. I got off my car and placed the Nepali poet’s photograph on a table by the roadside to offer my respects. Later, I joined the cultural programme,” Deb said, citing the incidents to iterate the demand for additional central forces for the Hills. He also accused Darjeeling MP and central minister S S Ahluwalia of supporting the ongoing “violence” in the Hills and questioned why the centre was a mute spectator to the repeated incidents of violence.
 
 The widespread arson came a day after   supporters forced a shutdown of two Teesta Lower Dam hydel power stations in the lower reaches of the Hills on Wednesday. GJM general secretary Roshan Giri, on his part, had nothing but this to offer: “We neither support nor do we indulge in any kind of vandalism and violence. Our members and supporters are in no way associated with putting the place on fire.”
 
 Unlike during the Gorkhaland agitation in 1986, Gorkhaland supporters are now spreading the anarchy downhill towards the foothills and the plains — Sukna, Mirik, Panighatta and Darjeeling More — as well as towards Terai and Dooars, closer to Siliguri town that seems to be sitting on a powder keg. Miscreants also damaged several vehicles on the way to Sikkim, prompting the North Bengal State Transport Corporation to suspend bus services to the Hills.
 
 An army column has been deployed at Kalimpong and two more have been pressed into action in Darjeeling and Sonada.
 
 But things may go from bad to worse as protesters have decided to gherao the office of the district magistrate, sub-divisional officers and block development officers on Friday. Senior members of Gorkhaland Movement Coordination Committee (GMCC) will start an indefinite hunger strike at Chowrasta on July 15.
 
 The Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists (CPRM), too, questioned the centre’s silence. “They (central government) send teams to Basirhat where no one has died. But it chooses not to intervene in the Hills even when seven people have been killed. What is the secret behind this attitude of the government?” CPRM spokesperson Govind Chhetri asked.
 
