NEW DELHI: Pakistani cricketer-turned politician   accused former Pakistani prime minister   of insulting his country's army in language "that Indian PM Modi would use", reported Pakistani media.

 Khan, the chairman of the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party, was referring to revelations made in what's come to be called 'DawnLeaks', which is an article Pakistan's Dawn newspaper published last year that alleged the civilian government was unhappy with the army for not cracking down on terrorists.
 
 At a 'thanksgiving' rally on Sunday following the disqualification of Sharif by the Pakistan supreme court, Khan alleged that to safeguard his corruption, Sharif would even "compromise Pakistan's interests" and "align with the enemy", reported The News International.
 
 "PTI chairman continued that the Sharif family would align with the enemy and cited the DawnLeaks issue, wherein the PM Office, he alleged, used the type of language that Indian PM Modi would use against Pakistan Army and wondered what else could be disloyalty," said the News, reporting about Khan's speech at the rally.
 
 Khan further alleged that Sharif spoke of the Pakistani army in this manner "to cover up their corruption, as there was a strong Jewish-Indian lobby in the  ." 
 
 The cricketer-turned politician has made similar allegations about Sharif before.
 
  "I have never seen a leader defaming his own military. There remains no difference between him and Indian Prime Minister  ," said Khan at another rally a few months ago, as The Express Tribune reported.
 
 "The prime minister of a democratic state should be answerable to the nation if he criticises the country's armed forces when they are engaged in war," Khan had said then.
 
 The October 2016 article in Dawn revealed details about a high-level security meeting in Pakistan during which there was "an extraordinary verbal confrontation" between the civilian and army leaderships of the country over Pakistan-based terror groups striking in India and Afghanistan.
  
 The article said specifically that Sharif's younger brother Shahbaz had words for the inspector general of Pakistan's intelligence agency ISI, Rizwan Akhtar.
 
  "Addressing Gen Akhtar, the younger Sharif complained that whenever action has been taken against certain groups by civilian authorities, the security establishment has worked behind the scenes to set the arrested free," the Dawn story said.
 
 Apparently, Pakistan's foreign secretary  , who was also reportedly at the meeting, spoke about Pakistan's increasing global isolation.
 
 Chaudhry is said to commented in a presentation at the meeting that despite recent diplomatic outreach, Islamabad "faces diplomatic isolation and that the government's talking points have been met with indifference in major world capitals."
 
 
