CHANDIGARH: The stand-off between Jats and the Haryana government intensified on Saturday after   (AIJASS) chief   ruled out any further dialogue. He said on Saturday, “Now the dialogue will be held in Delhi and that too with the Union government.”

 Besides putting complete and indefinite ban on use of mobile internet and messaging services in Sonipat, Rohtak, Jhajjar and Bhiwani districts, the deputy commissioners have also ordered closure of liquor shops in these areas. Besides, there is also a ban on tractor-trailers carrying more than four persons entering or crossing the district and a 10-litres cap on diesel sale for such vehicles.
 
 Malik told TOI that for the past one year Jats had been interacting with the state government over the issue of reservation for the community in government jobs. “They can impose any ban on mobile phones and internet. Our workers don’t use such things. The message has already gone to Jats across the country. They will manage on their own,” he said while referring to the call given by AIJASS to gherao (besiege) the parliament on March 20.
 
 He said discussions over the matter of quota for Jats would happen only with the Union government and that too following the intervention of a Union minister. “We will certainly have a meeting with the government, but with the Union government, and that too on March 20,” Malik said. The nyaya dharna (sit-in for justice) at various places in Haryana entered 49th day on Saturday. The state government had already issued prohibitory orders in the wake of Jats’call to gharoe Delhi on March 20. 
 
 “Our priority is to ensure law and order, and therefore DCs too have been empowered to take a call on deployment of Army and paramilitary forces in their areas, if required,” Haryana additional chief secretary (home) Ram Niwas said.
 
 Pressing for their demands regarding quota under the other backward classes (OBC) category and relief and rehabilitation of those killed and injured in violence during the Jat stir of February 2016, the community members across Haryana have been staging dharnas under the banner of AIJASS. Jat leaders met the state government panel, headed by Haryana education minister  , on March 16 to finalize the modalities of an agreement to resolve the issues of the community. It was stated after the meeting that the announcement to that effect was to be made jointly by the Haryana chief minister   and Jat leaders in New Delhi on Friday. 
 
 Things did not work out as stated, triggering another round of war of words between the Jat leaders and the state government functionaries. As the talks failed, AIJASS leader Malik announced that the gherao of Delhi on March 20 would take place as scheduled.
 
 
