MOODBIDRI: Alva’s   as a precursor to its national level cultural extravaganza – Alva’s Virasat 2017 is all set to hold ‘Alva’s Shilpa Virasat’ and ‘Alva’s Varna Virasat’ in this   of the South. Eminent artists including 20 drawing artists and 15 sculptors from across India will participate. Renowned sculptor Ramamurthy will inaugurate Alva’s   on Friday. Dr M Mohan  , chairman of the foundation will preside.

 Five tribal artists from Bastar in Chhattisgarh will prepare bronze masks of God with attractive idols. Ten sculptors will prepare 4-5 feet wooden idol of Tulu folklore heroes Koti-Chennayya and other artefacts. Madhya Pradesh’s Bansilal Baid, Ravindh Nag, Ramamurthy, Akash Nag, Amir Nag and Shivshankar from Bengaluru, Manjunath Acharya from Chitradurga, Chidanand and Shashikumar from Dakshina Kannada, would be special attraction of the show.
 
 Anupama Hegde, joint managing trustee, Gurukula Public School, Kundapur will inaugurate   on January 11 at Alva’s Ayurveda seminar hall. Swastisri Charukeerthi Bhattaraka Pandithacharyavarya of Jain Math, Moodbidri will bless the occasion and Dr Alva will preside over the function. Alva’s Varna Virasat will see artists from Odisha, Tripura, Kerala, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, TN, AP, Karnataka contribute two drawings by an artist.
 
 Neelesh D Bharthi, Ramesh Haripach Pande, Sagarbandru Ami Patel, Devdas Shetty from Mumbai, Sangram Kumar Maanji from Odisha, Shrijapallam, Druvaraj N V, Smitha Vijayan, Vijay Kumar from Kerala, Ravindho Das from Tripura, Kishore Narkhandiwala from Gujarat, Nirmala Baluka and Palak Dhube from Hyderabad, Kannan, Gangatharan from Tamilnadu, Sacchidananda, Ganpathi Hegde, Kantharaju from Karnataka will participate.
 
 The valedictory program of the two events will be held on January 15 at noon. Chi Su Krishna Setty, president, Lalita Kala Academy, New Delhi and writer Gopalkrishna will be the chief guests. Alva’s Education Foundation chairman Dr Alva will preside over the program. Alva’s Varna Virasat 2017 award will be bestowed on traditional artist of Rajasthan Reva Shankar Sharma. Alva’s Virasat will get underway on January 13 and end on January 15.
 
 
