GUWAHATI: Goalpara Police have filed a chargesheet against eight people in a case of assault of a member of the additional foreigners' tribunal in Goalpara, Ajoy Phukan, on February 15. The chargesheet was filed on Saturday before the chief judicial magistrate's court of Goalpara in a record time of 38 days. 

 The chargesheet was filed against the key accused - Shahjahan Ali, Nazrul Islam, Omar Faruq Choudhury, Anisul Haque,  ,  , Mir Abdul Baten and Mainal Haque. The SP said all of them are lawyers.
 
 "Ten people were arrested, out of which eight were found to be involved in the case," Goalpara SP   said. "They were charged with rioting, criminal conspiracy, criminal force to deter a public servant from discharging his duty, voluntarily causing hurt and house trespassing. Besides, for damaging the office of the tribunal member, they have also been charged with sections under the prevention of damage to public property act," he added.
 
 Investigation pointed to their direct involvement in assaulting Phukan after the tribunal declared eight villagers from the district's   area as foreigners on February 9. Unhappy with the judgment, Nazrul and others reached Phukan's court chamber. After an intense argument with Phukan about the judgment, they assaulted him. 
 
 The incident sparked state-wide protests and was seen as an attack on the judiciary by "infiltrators".
 
 The All Assam Students' Union (Aasu), the Gauhati high court bar association, the Prabajan Virodhi Manch and various other organization, along with intellectuals across the state condemned the incident and demanded action against and protection from the culprits.
 
 DGP Mukesh Sahay instructed the state police to review the security management of all the tribunals across the state immediately. Foreigners' tribunals were set up to try the D-voter, or doubtful citizenship, cases speedily, as hundreds of suspected foreigners have been languishing in detention camps at Kokrajhar and Goalpara for years. There are some 1,43,227 D-voters in the state.
 
