LUCKNOW: All major political parties talk about development but have worked out their own caste combinations for political gains in UP . According to past results, a party needs the support of more than two dominant castescommunities -the full support of two and a section of the third -to win an election. But with BJP working on Hindu consolidation, the caste formulae of SP , BSP and the Congress could go awry .
The gameplan of most parties seems to be to poach each other's vote bank and bag the vulnerable groups -most backward among backward castesclasses and subcastes -while holding onto their core support base.
 
 “BJP hopes for Hindu consolidation but doesn't have a face like in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. BSP and SP hope that in the absence of a Hindutva face, their core support bases would vote to see a chief minister of their respective castes.Hence, both BSP (Dalit base) and SP (OBC base) are trying to woo other castes through ticket distribution.If they get their combination right to defeat BJP , they will get Muslim votes, achieving the two-and-a-halfcaste formula. BJP thinks a split in Muslim votes among BSP and SP will give it an edge,“ says political analyst  .
 
 There are 79 castes under other backward classes (OBCs). There are sub-categories of backward classes (BCs) and most backward classes (MBCs) within OBCs. Yadav, Lodh, Kurmi and Jat come under BCs and consti tute around 18% of the population, while all MBCs make up around 16.7%. Together, they have dominance in 145 assembly seats across UP . Yadavs are dominant OBCs and hold sway in 75 assembly constituencies with a population of over 20%. These include   and the adjoining areas in west UP and Azamgarh and areas border ing   in east UP . Dalits have 66 sub-castes and to gether they make up more than 20% of the population in near ly 100 assembly constituen cies. Muslims are over 20% in 145 assembly seats.
 
 Brahmins play a crucial role in 60 assembly seats (over 20% of the population) in central and east UP and Thakurs are important in 85 seats (over 15% of population) mainly in central and east UP , such as Pratapgarh, Amethi, Domariaganj and Sultanpur, and some in west UP like  . To win an election, a party needs at least 30% of the total votes, which cannot be achieved through one caste alone. Parties thus cobble up caste and communal alliances to sail through.
 
 “The role of MBCs and subcastes comes into play here. Though the numbers differ from west to east UP , the demographic distribution and concentration of castes is such that a minor tilt of one caste or sub-caste can influence the election in a seat or even a region,“ says analyst   Awasthi.
 
 For example, among OBCs, Jats constitute only 2%, but they are over 17% of the populace in 11 districts of west UP , influencing 55 as sembly seats. Similarly , Kurmis are 4% and Lodhs 2% of the population but have influence in many seats in Bundelkhand, central and east UP .
 
 Among MBCs -Mauryas, Shakyas, Sainis, Kushwaha, Nishads and Binds -have influence in central and east UP , Rajbhars in east UP . Together, they can play a crucial role in about 100 seats. Parties with bases among BCsMBCs and sub-castes have also come up.RLD has influence over Jats, Apna Dal over Kurmis, Mahan Dal over Mauryas, Shakyas, Sainis and Kushwaha, Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party over Rajbhars and Peace Party over a section of east UP Muslims. A swing of 4,000-5,000 votes can win you an election in a particular constituency. This explains why major parties ally with smaller ones,“ says an analyst.  's move to recommend the inclusion of 17 sub-castes from OBCs into the scheduled caste category is aimed at getting their votes. These castes are Kahar, Kashyap, Kewat, Nishad, Bind, Bhar, Prajapati, Rajbhar, Batham, Gaur, Tura, Majhi, Mallah, Kumhar, Dheemar and Machua -spread across UP .
 
 Similarly, among Dalit subcastes, BSP holds sway among Jatavs, which is why other parties are wooing sub-castes like Pasis and Balmikis, which are a good number in central UP.
 
