THANE: Two consecutive tree falls in Naupada left four people injured and five vehicles damaged bringing back horrid memories of the two fatal mishaps involving an advocate and a former news anchor who were killed in tree collapses recently.

 The incident occurred around 8:30am on the busy   when the huge tree got uprooted and toppled on a passing auto and bikes. Passersby, stunned to see the huge tree collapsing within a fraction of a second, rushed to help those trapped inside the fallen green debris.
 
  The injured were identified as Rajeet Yadav, a rickshaw driver, bikers Rajesh Mudavane and Ankush Jamble and an unknown person. “Jadhav was on his way to the railway station while the other three were parking their vehicle when the incident took place,” said an eye witness. Eye witnesses said the injured had a miraculous escape as their respective vehicles weren’t directly under the heavy tree weighing a few tonnes which could otherwise have crushed them under it. The injured were administered first aid at the civil hospital and discharged. Locals said the tree's stability had been compromised after some civil work was undertaken around it. The roots had already started decaying, said a resident. 
 
  Hours later, a huge old   collapsed on a car at  . No injuries were reported in this incident.
 
 With the city losing as many as 384 trees in the last two months, an average of nearly six trees daily, experts are now wanting the civic body to take immediate corrective action or formulate a policy for all further tree plantations in the city so as to arrest further mishaps.
 
 Around 35 instances of trees falling on houses have been reported in the last two months while 25 vehicles were damaged in the same period. Five people have been injured and one death reported in the last two months alone, says a civic record.
 
 "These trees often fall due to the rapid concretization around the trunks and lack of timely pruning of the branches. With less soil space, trees find it difficult to hold their ground and the rains add to their weight forcing them to topple over," said an expert. 
 
 Civic officials admitted they haven’t undertaken any pruning this year following a directive from the National Greens tribunal over the issue. “The norms set are very stringent and not feasible in an urban pocket like Thane. We will challenge the same in the higher court,” said an official.
 
