THIRUVNANANTHAPURAM: The state government will issue an order, allowing farmers to shoot   that destroy crops, minister for forests K Raju informed the state   on Thursday.

  The permission will be granted subject to certain conditions, the minister said, adding that though the previous government had conditionally allowed the culling of raiding boars in March 2013, no farmer had killed the animals.
 
 “The government is planning to issue a new order since the earlier order is about to lapse, and instances of wild boars destroying agriculture and land are on the rise,” the minister said in a written reply.
 
 The forest department would also undertake a survey of wild boars. According to a survey conducted three years ago, Kerala has more than 47,000 boars.
 
 Raju said the compensation amount to the victims of wildlife attacks would be provided by the nearest forest range office. 
 
 The compensation would be increased and the government has set aside Rs 25 crore to check the attack of wild  , he said.
 
 Two rapid response would be despatched to drive six wild elephants back into the forests from Bison Valley and Rajakumari in Idukki.
 
 SMS alert system, warning people of wild animals, introduced in Wayanad and Munnar, would be replicated in other places, Raju said.
 
 The forest department has launched programmes to plant more fruit-bearing trees and to recharge water bodies inside the forests.
 
 “Radio collars would be purchased to deal with problematic elephants. The department has erected 64-km long granite walls to stop elephants from straying into populated places near forest areas. The department is taking several other measures—solar fencing and digging trenches—to prevent wild elephants from entering farmlands and human inhibited areas,” he said.
 
 Minister   said nine new ITIs would be opened in the state as part of the campaign to improve skill development. Ten ITIs in the state would be upgraded to international standards.
 
 In a written reply, SC/ST welfare minister A K Balan informed that the financial assistance for the marriage of SC girls has been increased to Rs 75,000. SC/ST development corporation was giving loans up to Rs 2 lakh at 6% interest rate to people belonging to SC/ST categories.
 
 
