The new   has reopenend after a makeover and is now a 16-lane signal-free expressway. However, there is one major problem with the road's new avatar – there is no amenity for pedestrians, cyclists and joggers. And this miss has irked health-conscious Gurgaon. On both sides of the road are some of the most well-populated and posh societies of the city, and the new extension of Gurgaon's Rapid Metro also runs right through it. The road, which once used to be the favourite destination for morning joggers and cycling groups, has now turned into a death trap, say residents. 

 
 Residents say that in the absence of any pavement, cycling tracks and even points where cyclists and pedestrians can cross, it is impossible to walk, cycle or even reach the Metro station safely. Last year, a group of Gurgaon residents had filed a PIL regarding the lack of facilities here. The issue was also raised by Milind Soman at a road safety conference held in the city earlier this month. When CM   visited Gurgaon in the first week of May and heard the residents' grievance, he directed the civic authorities to make sure that these amenities were added. However, residents say that these things should have been kept in mind at the development stage, and any additions now will be difficult and long-drawn.
 
  
  Residents jog on the side lanes early in the morning, before it is encroached upon by vehicles (BCCL/   Gautam)
 
 
 Earlier this month, the CM directed civic authorities to make sure that these amenities were added. A spokesperson from DLF said that they were making provisions for additional amenities like pedestrian crossings and cycle tracks on the road and that the services will be planned and developed gradually. However, they did not specify any set deadline by which these plans would be implemented.
 
 Residents say that it's a case of too little, too late now. Till the pedestrian and cycling tracks are built, they will have to brave traffic each time or look for alternate spots. Latika Thukral, one of the litigants who filed a PIL on the issue last year, says, "The developers say that they will come up with a pavement and a cycle track now. But shouldn't all that have been done before the road became operational? Vehicles have started using it and since it’s a signal-free expressway, they do so with great speed. Once it’s formally inaugurated, any work for pavements or cycle track will become more difficult. DLF had promised the court that there will be facilities for cyclists and pedestrians on the road and I do hope they make good on it. For now, I can’t see how they are planning to do all that."
 
  
  
 
  
  The new Golf Course Road is functional without pavements or cycle tracks
 
 
 
 Aditya Ahuja, a resident of Sector 56, says, "There are no pedestrian walkways and no cycle tracks. On top of that, cars and autos take up the left lanes for parking, so even if those lanes do not have fast-moving traffic, you can't walk there. This used to be a beautiful road for morning runs and rides, but now it’s too dangerous. Since the road is wider now, the traffic moves much faster even during morning hours, which makes it risky for cyclists and runners. Even residents who want to walk down to some nearby place don't have that option."
 
  
  
 
 
 In fact, the road has already seen some accidents due to absence of foot-over-bridges and other amenities. Abhishek Mishra, a city-based international triathlete, tells us, "The road is dangerous, particularly because there are no points from where one can cross to the other side. Now that the Metro has been built, there is no room to build foot-over bridges. And even they will only help pedestrians and runners, cyclists will still have to weave through fast traffic. A few months ago, when the traffic here wasn’t even this fast, I myself witnessed a ghastly accident on this road and an individual trying to cross the road was killed."
 
 
  
  GT carried an article on August 23, 2016, about how Abhishek Mishra, a Gurgaon-based international triathlete, had witnessed a hit-and-run case at Golf Course Road
 
 
  
  Since the Golf Course Road is the main road in Gurgaon, the traffic forces cyclists and joggers to use that space only in the early hours of the day
 
 
 
 Groups of cyclists and runners, who use to frequent this stretch, have started avoiding it now. Shiv Kumar Jagannath, a member of Gurgaon Fun Riders cycling group, says, "We do daily rides, and the crossing near Genpact on the Golf Course Road is our assembly point. But now, with the increased traffic and no cycle tracks, we are thinking of moving it to the end of the road where it meets the Gurgaon-Faridabad Expressway. In fact, on some days we drive to Manesar and cycle along the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway. We do a 100-km round trip and then drive back to Gurgaon. I know it defeats the whole purpose of cycling, but safety is paramount."
 
 Neeta Singh, another cyclist from the city, adds, "I now take my cycle to the Aravalli Biodiversity Park and do my morning rides there. Earlier, even if I had to go there, I would ride all the way. But now, I make sure that I drive down the Golf Course Road stretch in my car and I only start riding when I’m away from this stretch."
 
 
 The irony that such a road exists in Gurgaon, which has built a reputation of being a city of runners and cyclists, is not lost on anybody. Dinesh Rana, a Sector 56 resident, who used to run along the Golf Course Road every morning till recently, says, "What is sad is that all this is happening in Gurgaon, a city that prides itself on its initiatives on non-motorised transport. It was Gurgaon that came up with concepts like Car Free Day and Raahgiri, which are being adopted all over the country now. But now, one of the most important roads in the city has 16 lanes for cars, but none for cyclists and pedestrians."
 
 
 
