RAMPUR: Muslim voters in Uttar Pradesh should stop thinking about   and its leaders as the time has come for the community to consider another option, said Syed Ahmad Bukhari, Shahi Imam of Jama Masjid, remarking on the ongoing feud in the ruling party. 

 Speaking with TOI over phone, Bukhari, who had openly supported SP, even sharing the dais with   during the 2012 assembly polls, said, “They cheated Muslims and supported BJP in forming a government at the Centre. Only five MPs from Mulayam Singh Yadav’s family were sent to the Lok Sabha back then. The SP leaders have failed to address the issues related to the Muslim community, which they promised in their 2012 manifesto.” 
 
 Bukhari said, “Muslims should teach the warring factions within SP a lesson in the upcoming Assembly polls for cheating them. The community should look for an option and not let the leaders take them for granted.” Alleging that the SP government did nothing for Muslims during its tenure, Bukhari said, “Before the 2012 assembly polls, Mulayam Singh had sought my support. Several demands, including 18% reservation for the community, were raised, which he promised to fulfil. But the government has failed to protect even basic rights of Muslims.” 
 
 Bukhari claimed that a total of 113 communal incidents took place in UP in just one year of the SP regime and curfew had to be clamped at 13 places. Besides, the Shahi Imam alleged, Muslims were not given adequate participation in administrative posts in the state. 
 
 In October, Bukhari had made a trip to Lucknow to meet the family and to convince them about sorting their differences. Bukhari had met CM  , Mulayam and Shivpal Yadav separately and then later all four of them met. 
 
 The Shahi Imam had then said, “Because of this pariwar fight, Muslims are a confused lot because they don’t know what to do. Muslims had voted for SP with a lot of hope and they pray that this rift ends. I hope that whatever harm has been done due to this will end soon.”
 
