FATEHABAD (HARYANA): Eighteen police personnel, including an   and a DSP, were among 35 injured on Sunday when 
  clashed with police on being prevented from marching towards Delhi.

 The protesters also allegedly set fire to two police buses during the clash that took place in Dhani Gopal village on Sirsa-Hisar-Delhi national highway.
 Fatehabad's SP O P Narwal, who sustained minor injury on his hand, said that 18 police personnel, including two women, were injured in the incident.
 
 "A woman ASI and a woman Constable were among the injured police personnel. Three media persons have also suffered injuries. The protesters allegedly held them hostage for some time and damaged their equipment," he said.
 
 A few protesters were also injured when police lobbed tear gas shells and resorted to lathicharge to disperse them.
 
 The situation turned tense when Jat protesters from villages of Chamarkhera and Kheri in Hisar district tried to enter Fatehabad district to join dharna at Dhani Gopal.
 
 Tractor trolleys carrying Jat protesters, some of whom were allegedly brandishing lathis, tried to breach police barricades. DSP Gurdial Singh, who was deputed at the barrier, requested them to go on foot and join the dharna peacefully but the protesters did not relent, Narwal said.
 
 Some agitators pelted the police party with stones. Retaliating, policemen resorted to lathicharge.
 
 The protesters then torched two police buses.
 
 Narwal suffered injury on his hand. DSP Gurdial Singh, Inspector Kuldeep, ASIs Sadhu Ram, Sohan Lal, Major Singh, Daya Ram and Krishan were among those hurt, he said.
 
 The DSP and the Inspector have been hospitalised, SP Narwal said.
 
 More police force was called in to control the situation.
 
 Narwal told reporters that "the situation is under control. At the barrier, we did not allow tractor trolleys from Hisar to enter our district. Instead of accepting our request, they started hurling stones at police and the situation turned tense. Some protesters even wielded lathis."
 
 The protesters also scuffled with media persons. They allegedly snatched their mobile phones and other equipment, deleted videos and photos of the incident from their cameras and damaged the devices.
 
 The news persons later filed a complaint with police, demanding action against Jat agitators. 
 
