An illegally parked   on a pavement near  , off J M Road, has opened up a Pandora’s Box of possible   by its owner like many others, using a   to hoodwink the   (RTO) inspectors and police.

 On January 29, Pune Mirror had published a picture of the stationary Jaguar, which would not have raised an alarm among the common public. It was however a menace to pedestrians at the time. However, after a detailed enquiry of this car’s vehicle registration number (MH 14 FF 0023), it came to light that the car owner was using a fake number plate. Mirror probed the matter and found out the real owner of this number, actually owns an S-Cross.
 
 Pune RTO has recently started a drive against luxury cars which are registered outside the state to evade the exorbitant vehicle registration taxes in Maharashtra.
 
 Suresh K Nair, the original owner of S-Cross car with this registration number from the Pimpri-Chinchwad RTO, was shocked to know that his car’s registration number graces another vehicle.
 
 “I bought the new S-Cross a year ago on loan from a bank. I have all the necessary vehicle registration documents of my car and I am shocked now to learn that someone else is using my number. It should be a fake number used by that owner of the car, I will file a written complaint to the Pimpri-Chinchwad RTO about this issue,” said 54-year-old Nair.
 
 Nair runs a trading business of various goods and lives in Jaimalanagar in Old Sangvi. He owns a bungalow and lives with his wife and son. He said that he owns only one car. “I can’t even afford to buy such an expensive car like Jaguar, that too with a fake registration number,” he said.
 
 When contacted, Pune regional transport officer B I Ajari said, “Our drive is against luxury car owners who purposely register their high-end cars to evade the exorbitant vehicle registration taxes in our state. In this case, both the cars have same vehicle registration numbers, with the owner of S-Cross having all the registration documents. So, we now need to track down the owner of the Jaguar, which is running with a fake number plate on roads. I will alert all our RTO inspectors who take actions on the roads. Also, we will take the help of Pune police to find this car with fake registration number. Once caught, action will be taken against the culprit according to the Motor Vehicles Act.”
 
 
