Tirupur: Three people who settled down in Mumbai after being involved in a robbery were arrested after 13 years in the city. The police nabbed them when they visited the city.

 In 2004, an armed gang entered the school on Dharapuram road, tied up a watchman and stole Rs 50000 along with two motorcycles. Tirupur rural police registered the case against eight persons and conducted investigations.
 
 Among the eight accused, K Arumugam, M Manimuthu, R Neethi and T Krishnan, all belonged to Salem and Namakkal districts, were arrested in the same year. But four other accused-P Rajesh, R Mani, P Ganesh and P Murugesan were at large. So, the case was split and being tried separately in a trial court, which sentenced the four arrested to undergo four years of imprisonment. The convicts completed their jail term while the police too recovered the burgled properties from them, said the police sources.
 
 But in other side, the police did not have any clue about the other four accused. The director general of police ordered to reopen the long pending cases and complete the trial as soon as possible. Based on the confession from the convicts, the police came to know that the absconding accused were their relatives and they had settled in Mumbai.
 
 “It was revealed that the gang’s modus operandi was to hit the educational institutions during nigh times and rob the available properties from the premises. There are seven or more such cases pending against all these same accused in various police stations in many districts,” said a police officer.
 
 In case of the accused- Rajesh, Mani, Ganesh and Murugesan, their families got settled in Mumbai several years ago. They would come to Tamil Nadu to involve in the robbery cases and go back if the police started investigations. They were used to visit their native places during festival times, said the officer.
 
 “We did not have any clue then their name, only after confession from the persons who were already convicted, it was revealed that the absconders got settled in Mumbai, where they work as daily wagers,” he mentioned.
 
 After working out a plan, separate teams were formed and they kept track of the accused movements for last one month. The police arrested three out of the four absconders when they visited Tirupur on Tuesday. Murugesan, who is yet to be arrested is likely to be nabbed within next few days, said a higher police official.
 
 
