THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister   has called for a joint effort by the MPs from the state for ensuring serious consideration of the state's reasonable demands while the Union government comes out with its  . 

 During the MPs' conference held here on Friday, ahead of the start of parliament budget discussions, he urged the parliament members to put pressure on the Union government to announce new projects and initiatives for the state. 
 
 "The biggest crisis facing the state is cash crunch, and to tide over this crisis, especially in the cooperative sector, the primary cooperative societies should be allowed to carry out bank transactions like other commercial banks," he said in his facebook page after the meeting. Another major crisis is the scarcity of foodgrains after the implementation of the National Food Security Act, Pinarayi said. "Apart from increasing the existing share of foodgrains of 14.25 lakh metric tonne, the state's allocation of sugar also should be raised," he added. The CM requested MPs to stand united and struggle to resolve the issue.
 
 Among other demands put up at the conference included speedy procedures for establishing the  ) for which required land has been identified, new roads in place of 133 kilometre roads which were removed from the approved list of   and central aid for the housing scheme for plantation workers. "Besides, the state has already put to railway minister's attention various issues related to the sector, including, railway safety and modernisation of coaches. The MPs should take up these issues and ensure that they get due consideration," the chief minister said.
 
 Pinarayi also pointed out that the state required new projects in  . "Rubber needs to be reclassified as an agricultural product and as per the ASEAN treaty the import duty should be increased to help the sector overcome the crisis. The centre should also examine whether the use of rubber can be increased by including it in the 'Make in India' project," he added. 
 
