VADODARA: Three persons, including two temple priests, in   village near Godhra were booked after they allegedly stopped eight to nine dalit girls from entering the temple for prayers on the occasion of 'gauri vrat.' 

 The girls have alleged that the temple's priest stopped them from offering prayers as they are dalits.
 
 The incident came to light on Saturday when the priest, Babu Bhatt, allegedly pushed one girl out of the temple. The complainant  , father of one of the girls, told police that the priest was not allowing the girls inside the temple since the 'vrat' began as they belong to Valmiki community.
 
 "The priest had been stopping the girls since two days but they did not inform us. But on Saturday as the situation aggravated, they told us," said Mochi, adding, "I went to meet the priest to settle the issue but his son Nilesh threatened me saying they don't care even if we go to the police."
 
 Mochi also alleged that Nilesh abused him and told him that if the girls would have entered the temple, it would have become impure. He said that they do not visit the temple since their community has a different temple. However, since it was locked, the girls went to the temple where Bhatt is the priest.
 
 As the issue was not settled after meeting Nilesh, Mochi registered a complaint of criminal intimidation and Prevention of Atrocities against Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes against Bhatt, his son and another priest Madhu Mehta at the   police station.
 
 Police have not arrested any of the accused yet. 
 
 "In his statement to police, Bhatt said that none of the girls were pushed not were they denied entry in the temple," said V R Bajpayee, deputy superintendent of police, Halol division. 
 
 "The priest said that he was busy in prayer ceremonies with other girls and therefore he had denied them from entering," said Bajpayee.
 
 Mochi said that their community will submit a memorandum to district collector regarding the issue this week and make a representation to Prakash Ambedkar, grandson of Dr B R Ambedkar, who is scheduled to visit Sanand near Ahmedabad on July 15.
 
