CHANDRAPUR: Attacking the BJP on the hike in property tax, Congress leader and former MP Naresh Puglia said that the rate of tax imposed in   was higher than Delhi, Nagpur and other metro cities. The irrational hike would be revoked and all properties will be re-evaluated if the Congress voted to power in the upcoming Chandrapur Municipal Corporation polls.

 He was speaking at the release of Congress manifesto for the elections. The Congress plans to corner the BJP on the property tax issue as it has caused a lot of difficulties for the citizens since two years. 
 
 Citizens would not have to pay the hiked property tax for year 2016-17. 
 
 Puglia said that when Congress was in power, the then CM Prithviraj Chavan had promised Rs 250 crores under penta-centenary development funds for Chandrapur and had allocated Rs s25 crore as its first instalment. However after BJP assumed power in the state, finance minister   scrapped the remaining funds. Despite repeated demand, not a single penny was given to CMC during two years. Meagre Rs 40 crore were sanctioned for city just before the polls. 
 
 Exposing the irrational expenditure of public money by the BJP, Puglia charged that estimated plan of renovation of existing   cultural auditorium in city was worth Rs 2.50 crore, but expense has allegedly reached over Rs 12.50 crore . 
 
 Though Mungantiwar announced several development projects in city, there is no allocation for any of them, he said. 
 
  A Rs 340 crore Irai river development plan was announced but it was rejected by government, he said. Though there are two ministers in Chandrapur, they failed to bring approval for a government medical college. Congress was forced to move high court, which in turned directed the Medical Council of India to award approval to medical college, he said. 
 
 Even as Rs 600 crore worth construction plan of GMCH has been prepared, finance minister has not allocated a penny for it, Puglia said. 
 
 The Congress manifesto also promises all round development and transparency in the civic administration. 
 
 It promises 10% tax rebate for those who deposit tax in first three months of fiscal, tax exemption for tile roofed houses constructed in less than 300 sq feet and 50% concession to those between 300 and 500 sq feet area. Fifty per cent exemption in water tax for these houses was also announced. 
 
 The Manifesto further promises underground electrification in city, ample parking area, repair of   fort and Wi-Fi facility at every square in city etc. 
 
 
