PATNA: Bihar  , a constituent unit of  , Sabour, turns into a ‘marriage hall’ every evening these days, making it almost impossible for the students residing in the college hostel to prepare for the final exams scheduled from May 16.

 Aggrieved students have asked the college administration to intervene and also complained to vice-chancellor Dr A K Singh, but in vain. 
 
 A student leader, Anish Kumar said the students wrote to the administration to stop marriage ceremonies and receptions on the college premises. “The girls’ hostel is more vulnerable because it is only a few feet away from the party area. The boys’ hostel is behind the college premises. Our exam is at hand. How can anyone study amid such noise,” he told this newspaper.
 
 Another student, Rupam Kumari, said, “There has not been a single day in the last ten days when marriages and receptions have not been organized on the campus. Evening to midnight is the period when we can study, but I can’t concentrate due to loud music and people making noise. We are waiting for the vice-chancellor’s reply.”
 
 There are around 80 students in the girls’ hostel. “It is shocking that the college administration is more concerned about the marriage ceremonies and receptions to make money than the future of students. But the college administration had no money or time to conduct any programme on the World Veterinary Day (April 29). We need a peaceful environment to study, but it appears there is no one to listen,” said  .
 
 “After 5pm, we abandon the ground as people start coming to the college. It’s an awkward situation for us and how the college administration allows strangers on the campus at night,” said another girl student.
 
 College principal S   supported the students, but expressed his inability to do much. “Personally, I feel it is not appropriate for the university to use the college premises for ceremonial purposes. It only hampers the education and concentration of students. It is not in my hand. Students need to approach the university officials for this,” he said.
 
 The university vice-chancellor could not be contacted despite calls and SMSs sent to his cellphone number. 
 
