MUMBAI: Eleven states, 12 franchises, and more than 130 matches spread over three months between July 28 and October 28. Pro Kabaddi just got bigger with the addition of four new teams, and organisers of Season Five of the competition claim this is now India's foremost league in terms of geographical representation.

 What's more, 10 players from Pakistan have been included for the auctions that take place in New Delhi on Monday and Tuesday. The eight existing franchises were given the option of retaining one elite player each, and all of them barring the Jaipur Pink Panthers availed of this opportunity. While two-time defending champions   have retained ace raider Pardeep Narwal, U Mumba, winners of the second season, have held on to veteran raider and skipper of the Indian team that won the World Cup in Ahmedabad last year,  .
 
 Puneri Paltan, meanwhile, chose to keep all-rounder Deepak Hooda, while releasing the likes of top raider   and Manjeet Chhillar. The Bengal Warriors retained Korea's star raider Jang Kun Lee. Meraj Sheykh, one of the world's top allrounders from Iran will be donning   colours again, while   have gone for all-rounder  . The Telugu Titans have reposed faith in raider  , one of the faces of kabaddi in India.
 
 Four new franchises from Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Haryana will complete the 12-team line up and it will be interesting to see the choices they make over the coming two days, in which a total of 420 players will be auctioned. Of this 131 players are from the 'New Young Players' category.
 
 This lot was selected after trials and rigorous camps held in Gandhinagar and Navi Mumbai over the past few months. The Services too have enlisted 38 players, most of whom are likely to make the cut, given their focus on pursuing various sporting disciplines.
 
 A total of 60 foreign players from across 17 countries, including Pakistan, have been enrolled and it will be interesting to note the response that players from across the border get, given the hostile environment that exists in both the nations.
 
 The teams enjoy a purse size of Rs4 crore each, amounting to a total of Rs48 crore. This is the money that will be used by each franchise to draw up a squad size of 18-25 players. Since the new franchises could not retain any elite player, the concept of 'priority selection player' has been introduced for them, wherein, they will be given the option of retaining one player from Season IV, available after the allocation of the elite players retained by the existing franchises. 
 
 
