LUCKNOW:   is understood to have taken charge of negotiations with the   on alliance at a time when UP chief minister   has laid down a final offer of 99 seats for Congress in the  . Congress is likely to announce its decision on Sunday morning.

 In a late evening development, Sonia's political secretary Ahmed Patel reportedly swung into action and restarted talks with the SP leadership to salvage the tie-up. A highly placed source in Congress said this is an indication that Sonia has now personally got involved with the alliance issue and wants a positive result.
 
 SP sources said Sonia stepped in after her daughter Priyanka Gandhi's emissary failed to bring about a resolution.During the recent parleys over the SP-Congress alliance, the Congress president had receded into the background, virtually vacating the stage for her son and party vice-presi dent Rahul Gandhi. Her entry at the last minute is a last-gasp effort to revive negotiations and may yield a bonus in the form of a few more seats from Akhilesh.
 
 “Some top Congress leaders called us up late in the evening with a fresh offer of changing the party's stand on the number of seats and also on Amethi-Rae Bareli belt,“ a senior SP leader told TOI, adding that CM Akhilesh Yadav was still in favour of an alliance but the intention of Cong ress leaders was unclear. While SP has offered Congress 99 seats, the latter is insisting on 120-plus. Earlier, throughout the day , Congress's image-maker Prashant Kishor, emissary Dheeraj Srivastava and some other non-political faces negotiated with Akhilesh at his official residence here. Akhilesh was earlier of the opinion that Congress was a serious contender only on 54 seats ­ those where it stood first and second in 2012. Despite this, he is believed to have offered 84 seats to the party , sources said. But when Congress negotiators refused to scale down their demand, Akhilesh reportedly hiked the offer to 15 seats and said that nothing beyond 99 was acceptable.
 
 Afirm stand by the SP chief caused concern in the Congress camp, forcing the party high command to resume negotiations late in the night and save the alliance.
 
