Chandigarh: It is election time in Panjab University (PU) and the student bodies seem to have found common issues to protest. On Wednesday, while the Panjab University Students Union ( ) started a door-to-door campaign to gather support against their claims on the restriction of not allowing girl students to go to the library at night, the Students For Society (SFS) also staged a similar protest outside the office of the VC on the same issue. After staging the protests, the students also rallied in the campus.

 According to Satwinder of SFS, the girls are being denied access to visit the library at night. “The wardens do not sign the library pro forma, which is required to let us go out. They rather question us as to how we can ensure them that whether we are going to the library or roaming around,” Satwinder said.
 
 Another prominent student leader, Naval Deep of PUSU, informed that the protests will continue till the female students are allowed entry to the library at night. “It is discrimination on the part of the Panjab University authorities since they allow boys but not girls. It was after a lot of struggle that the female students of the university were provided the facility to go to the library during night hours. Now, they are doing this,” said Naval Deep. 
 
 However, the dean student welfare ( ) Prof Emanual Nahar, had a different take on the matter. When TOI spoke to Nahar, he said that they did not impose any kind of restriction and have adhered to the rules in the handbook of information. He also informed that the security of women hostellers is their priority and the library has already communicated to the authorities that they don’t have security for female students during the night.
 
 In the meantime, SFS plans to stage more protests outside the girls’ hostels on the same issue. Also, the university campus was buzzing with activity on Wednesday with diverse student bodies planning a different kind of actions ahead of the student council election.
 
 BOX: Digvijay Chautala visits PU
 
 Digvijay Chautala, national president of the Indian National Student Organization (INSO), convened a meeting of Panjab University INSO here on Wednesday. Chautala sounded optimistic about the upcoming student council elections and said that the organization was working hard and results will be in their favour. Chautala appointed Devkant Rana, a law student, as the president of INSO. He also criticized the “communal agenda” of BJP and said that INSO is a socialist party and will always work for the betterment of the farmers and workers. While addressing the meeting, INSO chairman Raman Dhaka said, “We are fully prepared and will definitely win the upcoming election.”
 
 
