MEERUT/ALIGARH: Virtually releasing the BSP's manifesto in poll-bound UP, party supremo  , who held her first major rally in the state after election dates were announced, said in Meerut on Wednesday that she will start a drive for victims who could not file FIRs in the   rule. "Innocents in jail will be released after scrutiny," she added as the gathering clapped.
 
  The BSP has traditionally never released a manifesto for any of the elections it has fought. In the run-up to the 2014   elections, Mayawati had dis missed manifestos of other parties as "nothing but tall claims", saying her party believed in doing “real development work” instead for the people. This year, however, the party had taken to social media to highlight the points they would be focusing on in the 2017 UP elections. As usual, they hadn't released a party manifesto though.
  
  Dubbing the BJP "anti-Dalits", Mayawati warned people that the Union government would discontinue reservation for SCs and STs. Addressing an election rally in Aligarh, she claimed that she had "information" that the Union government was contemplating ending reservations. She said a vote for BJP in UP would be a vote to end reservations. For good measure, she asked Muslims to stay away from the Congress-SP alliance.
  
  Alluding to the law and order situation in UP, which BJP, too, is talking about in its rallies, Mayawati said, “BSP will start a special drive for victims who could not file FIRs during the SP rule in UP. Fresh FIRs will be filed if it is voted to power. Not just this, all innocents who have been framed and sent to jail will be released after proper scrutiny. People in UP live under constant fear as goondas rule the roost,” she said.
  
  Doling out sops for farmers and students, she said, “Not only all pending dues of sugarcane farmers will be cleared, Rs 1 lakh worth of loans of farmers, poor and labourers will be waived off and paid by my government. We will jail those who have illegally occupied land given to farmers on lease."
  
  The BSP chief said that in place of SP’s "ghatiya" (bad) mid-day meal, her government will provide cake, milk, biscuits and fruits to students. "The quality of food being provided will be taken care of.”
  
  Repeating her previous promise, Mayawati said she will ensure cash is given to the poor according to their needs "and not laptops and cellphones that other parties are promising". The former chief minister, who has been criticised for the statues of elephants – her party symbol – that she put up in Lucknow and other parts of UP, said no such statues would be constructed "as that work has already been done".
  
  Raising the exodus issue, Mayawati slammed both the SP-Congress combine and BJP. “The biggest exodus was during the   rule when after Independence the maximum number of people left UP in search of employment. In SP rule, people migrated from UP due to bad law and order situation. And with BJP at the centre, many were forced to go out in search of jobs to save their demonetisation-hit, starving families."
