MUMBAI: The   that   has been facing appears to have come to the aid of teachers, as officials have decided to release their pending   from last year within a week. 

 To ensure more participation of teachers, on Tuesday, the university issued a circular announcing a hike in the remuneration for exam work. Though a decision to revise the pay for exam work was taken earlier this year, it remained on paper.
 
 Vinayak Dalvie, officer on special duty for assessment, said it was brought to his notice that several teachers were to receive their pending dues for last year’s   work. “These dues will be cleared in a week. And based on the consolidated work done by teachers now, we will start releasing the revised remuneration for this year’s work too,” he said. Remuneration for assessment has increased from Rs 8 to Rs 16 in most cases and moderation from Rs 12 to Rs 20, he said.
 
 On the second day of the “break” announced by the university in a bid to expedite the assessment work, more than 1.1 lakh papers were assessed and moderated by 5,415 teachers, said registrar M A Khan. However, teachers continued to report technical glitches at various assessment centres. “We continue to get blank papers and even the ones from subjects which we are not teaching. We report the matter to the help desk and the matter is resolved. To increase productivity, the university should ensure that these glitches do not recur,” said a teacher.
 
 Though Nagpur University has extended their help, not more than 20 teachers have participated in the process so far and they have not assessed more than 100 answersheets, said an official. A principal said the decision to rope in other state universities was flawed as most teachers there instruct in Marathi. “Universities like Nagpur and Kolhapur do not even have all the courses that we offer. In addition, many of the teachers communicate in Marathi,” said the principal. A team of officials from Pune University, too, have come to extend their help in the process.
 
 With assessment reaching its set target per day, the university is likely to start announcing results of some of the important exams from Wednesday. “Some of the results of exam with fewer students are almost ready. We will start declaring them in a day or two,” said Dalvie. 
 
 However, teachers said that several thousands of papers are still pending to be assessed in commerce and allied courses. Courses like BMS and BCom (Accounting and Finance) have more than 20,000 papers pending and BCom (Banking and Insurance), too, have over 10,000 pending papers. These figures does not include the papers pending in BCom, which are huge in numbers.
 
 
