Kolkata: Sourav Ganguly’s   did it in 2001. The Men in Blue took 16 years to achieve the feat yet again. No wonder, #Bullythebully and #Aussiekitaisi were the most trending twitter hashtags on Tuesday to sum up the fans’ reactions as India outplayed Australia to reclaim the Border-Gavaskar Trophy and win seven series in a row.

 “India has beaten several top teams, including England, New Zealand and South Africa, in the last two years but beating Australia is the best feeling. It is far pleasing than even beating Pakistan. The win in the first session has made my day. Now even the boring and hectic excel sheet maintenance feels good,” said Soumya Bandyopadhyay, a CA and an ardent cricket lover.
 
 Fans like Deepta Chakraborty had skipped college to not to miss a single ball and the presentation ceremony. “I wanted to see what Steve Smith and the rest of the Aussies had to say at the presentation. The very look of the team, their arrogance, the way they shrug off, their mocking smiles just put me off. Nothing is as satisfying as beating them,” he said.
 
 The Test series has seen several controversies and on- and off-field verbal spats between the two teams. The obvious flashpoint was the DRS controversy in Bengaluru, when Australia captain Steve Smith looked up at the dressing room while asking for suggestions when he was adjudged LBW, against the rule of the game. Virat Kohli followed that up by laying an unsubstantiated charge at his door.
 
 Then came Glenn Maxwell’s reaction in the next test as he held his shoulders with the other arm while fielding, mocking Kohli as he had to leave the field due to a shoulder injury. Spinner Nathan Lyonn’s comment that India was a headless snake without Kohli added fuel to the controversy. 
 
 Former cricketer Sambaran Banerjee was also amused with the win. “Aussies are known for their ugly cricket. They taunt, sledge and play all sorts of mind games to run down the opposition. I am very happy that they have been tamed,” he said.
 
 Explaining the fans’ reaction of going overboard with celebrations when it comes to beating Australia, sociologist Prasanta Roy said: “Australians are known for their rude behaviour and arrogance and for years India have regularly lost to them and they have mocked us. Hence, a win over them is doubly satisfying.”
 
 
