There was a video doing the rounds on social media a few days back. It showed  , with his back to the goal, setting it up with one-touch passes for   and Asensio to take cracks at the goal. It all looked relaxed, easy and precise, just the way   used to play his football.

 But during that practice session, behind the exterior of an easy-going artist, there was a man who demanded the best out of his talented would-be superstars. Just the way, he used to do it from his France, Juventus and   teammates between 1996-2006.
 
 Geniuses don't always make great coaches, unless you are a Johan Cryuff. Maybe masters want their players to produce the same game that they used to -a demand that often proves unreasonable. But Zidane seemed to have kept the ego aside when he decided to make a foray into coaching.
 
 Learning the ropes under   was a step in the right direction, but when Zidane took over at Real Madrid towards the end of 2015, there were a few raised eyebrows.
 
 The first thing that Zidane brought to this Real Madrid side was a sense of calmness. It was never short on resources, the Frenchman tried to make them believe that there will always be a way to win. The Champions League trophy that went to Real last season ideally should have been Atletico's, but Zidane was bringing in a change. It seemed the touch artist was teaching his talented wards in Real how to win ugly.
 
 Game after game after game, Real struggled. Even when Cristiano   was not there. Zidane had nurtured a bench -Morata, Isco, Asensio, Nacho -who kept landing the punches. Morata and Isco are so good that they can walk into any first XI across the world.
 
 After Real lost to Barcelona 2-3 at home, it seemed that Madrid were done. But Zidane again showed his guts. He rested most of his superstars against Dportivo. But it seemed Morata, Isco and Asensio were waiting to prove a point to their coach and it resulted in a 6-2 thrashing of the dangerous Depor.
 
 Zidane had proved he has come to stay here as a coach.
 
