Chennai: Last week, Nexus Venture and Matrix backed Stayzilla suspended its operations. This is not the first startup in this space to freeze operations. The consumer travel tech ecosytem has witnessed rapid changes in the last few years and while several have shut shop or been taken over, some continue to thrive.  “As disturbing as the news of Stayzilla’s shutdown is, it would be hasty to use it as an excuse to find faults with the travel tech space in India. After all, we must not ignore the recent news of the handsome returns made by SAIF Partners on MakeMyTrip or the solid performance of India-first business approaches in travel such as Redbus or RailYatri,” said Shubankar Bhattacharya, partner with Kae Capital.  Since 2010, consumer travel tech has seen a total investment of $825.14 million in 140 deals. It has also seen 67 shutdowns and 10 acquisitions. After $111. 44 million were pumped in 2011, there was a lull until 2015. A flurry of activity in 2016 where $623.4 million logged in (almost 75% of the total investment in the sector was made, data from Traxn said), including the MakeMyTrip-ibibo merger and Yatra Online’s NASDAQ debut. On the consolidation side since 2010, Travelguru’s acquisition by Yatra, Mygola (which had earlier raised funding from Helion, Blumberg, 500Startups and other angels) being taken over by MakeMyTrip and the continued talks between Tiger Global-backed Zo Rooms and Oyo are some of the prominent instances. Other players like Polama and WeAreHolidays (backed by Blume Ventures and Matrix Partners) have either shut shop or are tottering. “Challenges includes travel being not an easy repeat engagement product. For startups that are either marketplaces or have a niche product,monetisation could be a concern.,” said Karthik Reddy of Blume Ventures. The seed stage investor has placed multiple bets in this space including AudioCompass, RailYatri and Tripvillas. For content discovery startups like Tripoto and TripHobo, the challenge lies in differentiating its own content from the myriad of information already available.  Players like Stayzilla ended up investing standardising supply and did not see enough demand to justify the economics. “The travel marketplace does not have local network effects and we can’t really take a focused city-by-city approach in terms of matching supply and demand. The demand and supply for homestays was non-existent 18 months back, excluding a few small pockets. As a result, we had to invest extensively in both sides of the marketplace, creating homestays as well as guests who would choose a homestay across the country. We were actually successful at this  –  we have created 8,000 homestays in over 900 towns  – but this stretched us thin,” Yogendra Vasupal, co-founder Stayzilla blogged. Hari Ganapathy, co-founder, PickYourTrail offers customised itineraries for international travel only. “Visa restriction along with constraints of time and money are keeping travellers at bay. Information overload and restricted budgets mean that travellers visit only the popular spots with little left for exploration. It will take another 5-6 years before Indians travel without inhibition,” he said.  With the MakeMyTrip-ibibo merger, the breathing space for existing players has reduced and startups are looking to differentiate by solving specific issues. For example: The Bengaluru-based Byond Travel is betting big on community travel. “We are investing in bringing like minded interest groups together like women only groups, senior citizens, yoga aficionados and curate experiences for them. We have community influencers and leaders. For example, a group of 20 people were led by dancer Lourd Vijay to a trip to Cuba,” said Vikram Ahuja, founder & CEO.  Ends