BENGALURU: Those travelling to and from Kempegowda International Airport will have to negotiate gridlocked stretches on the way for some more time. Reason: A dispute over shifting and relaying of electrical cables on a two-km stretch in Begur village is holding up work on the  . 

 The 22-km alternative road linking Hennur flyover and KIA was scheduled to be completed by August. It is expected to reduce travel time to the airport by half an hour, especially for residents of east and southeast Bengaluru, areas which are home to many tech hubs.
 
 According to the public works department ( ), which is building the three-km stretch that will enter the southern gate of the airport, the road is likely to be ready by October. But engineers at the site said work may go on till December. 
 
 Madhavraju N, an IT professional from Indiranagar, flies in and out of the city at least four times a month. And every time, it takes him two hours to get to KIA. The commute is even longer if he heads to the airport from his workplace in Whitefield. “The alternative road will reduce my travel time to an hour and 20 minutes. In the wee hours of the day, it may take me just an hour to reach the airport or get back home,” he said.
 
 The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has already laid a four-lane road up to Begur village. Work on the three-km stretch is being executed by PWD through Begur, Chikkanahalli and Mylanahalli villages. The road will enter the southern gate of the airport’s second terminal, which is likely to be a reality by September 2019.
 
 PWD,   pass the buck 
 
 The PWD is in a fix as it says the   (KPTCL) has delayed the process of shifting of cables from the planned carriageway. 
 
 “Earlier, KPTCL took up the responsibility of moving the cables and we paid the shifting charges. But now it is asking us to shift the main set of electrical conduits under the median before we build the road. KPTCL says it will provide power connections for streetlights later. We are formulating a model to construct the road under the present conditions and it will be ready in three months,” said M Lakshminarayana, MD, PWD.
 
 But KPTCL has something else to say. H Nagesh, director (transmission), KPTCL, said initially PWD didn’t pay the shifting charges, which stalled the work. “We invited tenders for shifting of cables in the third week of July and the contract will be awarded before September 15. PWD paid us shifting charges of Rs 7.5 crore only recently,” he said.
 
 MISSED DEADLINES
 
 On October 17, 2016, chief minister Siddaramaiah inspected the road and announced it would be ready for use by March 2017. The deadline was pushed to June. Later, it came to light that the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) had made tardy progress in finishing the ramp of the Hennur flyover and widen the road towards the airport. BDA had set a deadline of August to complete the work.
 
