KANPUR: Amid tears, sobbing and anger, mortal remains of   were consigned to flames with full military and state honours at   in the city on Saturday morning. 

 Captain Ayush was given tearful adieu. In the presence of thousands of people raising slogans 'Jab Tak Suraj Chand Rahega Ayush Tera Naam Rahega', senior army and air force officers paid their rich tributes to Captain Yadav who had laid down his life while fighting terrorists in Kashmir's   on Thursday morning. People from all walks of life had reached the Siddhnath ghat to be witness to the cremation of brave son of soil. Everyone present at the spot had tears in their eyes. They raised slogans against Pakistan and demanded a very strong action against the enemy nation. 
 
 The pyre of Captain Yadav was lit by his cousin Abhishek. Armymen accorded guard of honour to the departed soul. Captain Ayush's family kept sobbing and could not stand the scene of their son being laid to rest. Ayush's mother who was unable to express herself at this hour of deep grief said 'that someone had once said that your son would bring laurels to the family and this proved to be true'. Cabinet minister Satish Mahana and Chairman of  , MS Bitta also paid homage to the brave army officer.
 
 Martyr's father Arunkant Yadav said that Ayush was the son of the soil and that he laid down his life for the country. He said that each one of them were proud of Ayush as what he did in 25 years of age is something people are unable to do in achieve in their entire lifetime. He also said that it is enough and that the centre government should provide a permanent solution to the militancy in Jammu and Kashmir and deal firmly with the enemy country. Ayush's mother Sarla and elder sister Rupal were inconsolable. Rupal at times tried consoling Sarla. Abhishek was also witnessed consoling Sarla and Rupal. Yadav family said that Ayush's loss was irreparable. 
 
 Both Sarla and Rupal were unable to take their eyes off the mortal remains of Ayush. They kept gazing it. A disturbed Sarla was seen rubbing the forehead of her son. Ayush's corpse had been placed in a coffin and kept at home for 'Antim Darshan' before cremation where hundreds of people had arrived to pay homage to the departed soul.
 
 While the military truck carrying mortal remains of Captain Ayush was on its way to Siddhnath ghat, people who stood on both the sides of the road, showered petals. This lot also included Madarsaa students who had come to pay homage. 
 
 The mortal remains of Captain Ayush Yadav had arrived by a special service aircraft in the city on Friday evening and were taken in a decorated military vehicle duly escorted by a ceremonial guard to his residence at 5 pm the same day. The body was then shifted to 7 Air Force Hospital from where it was brought to Captain Ayush's Defence Colony house in Jajamu on Saturday morning before conducting cremation at Siddhnath ghat. rites.
 
 When the mortal remains of Captain Ayush were taken to Siddnath ghat, hundreds and thousands of people followed the military truck. They kept raising slogans in praise of Captain Ayush and against Pakistan. Commoners were brimming with anger that first Maoists caused massive loss of human lives in Sukma in Chattisgarh and then an attack by terrorists in Kupwara caused deaths. They stated that just one surgical strike is not enough to teach Pakistan a lesson, this time the action should be much stronger, forcing the enemy nation to come on it's knees.
 
 A 26 year old Captain Ayush Yadav had displayed exemplary courage in fighting the terrorist attack at Panjgam in Kupwara army camp on 27 April 2017 and attained martyrdom in the process. Former UP Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav had paid a visit to the house of Captain Yadav on Friday and consoled the martyr's family. Yogi government had also announced an ex-gratia of Rs 30 lakh for the kin of the martyr. 
 
