Niharika.Alva@timesgroup.com

 Bengaluru: The earthmovers   Bellandur Lake might be doing their job, but they have been blocking almost half the road near Yemlur. Two machines that have been deployed to clean the lake directly from the road were found dumping weeds and hyacinth on the road itself on Friday, leading to a pile-up of vehicles. 
 
 “We remove the muck from the road only in the evening,” said one of the operators. But this has clearly hit commuters during the day. 
 
 “Weeds and other waste pulled out of the lake are piling up on the road. Traffic jam apart, the stench is unbearable,” said Seema Sharma, a resident of the area.
 
 Earlier this week, two new water-based weed harvesters joined the clean-up operation. Officials say that these machines are capable of clearing up to 50 tonnes (each) of weeds daily. “These machines have cleared over 100 tonnes of weeds in the past three days and two more machines will be brought in next week,” said Vir Singh Naik, executive engineer, BDA.
 
 However, as far as the process is concerned, there are several technical glitches. “One problem is of wind blowing away the weeds from the water’s surface. Also, while the harvesters can go deep into the water, it takes a lot of time for them to resurface with the weeds. Now, we plan to use bamboo and ropes to tie the weeds so that they don’t move away with the breeze. This should help speed up the process,” said Rajendra Shetty of Clean Tec, the firm that’s operating the machines. 
 
 The BDA said that it has identified a quarry nearby and all the accumulated weeds and hyacinth will be eventually dumped there. “For now, whatever the harvesters are pulling out is being kept on the lake’s boundary. Once a substantial amount is collected, it’ll be transported to the quarry,” said a BDA official present at the site.
 
 Inspection of lakeside residences
 
 Earlier this month, BBMP officials had said that individual houses and apartment complexes around Bellandur Lake were equally responsible for polluting the waterbody. Civic agencies had been asked to survey apartments and check the metres connected to read sewage discharge from each of the units.
 
 Residents, however, say that officials have only visited one of the apartment complexes around the lake. “As far as the inspection of domestic pollutants goes, we think we are the only lakeside complex to be inspected,” said Nagesh ARH, a resident and environmental activist.
 
 “According to our calculations, the residents of our complex, which has ten buildings, are contributing less than 1 per cent to the lake’s pollution. The BWSSB and the KSPCB want to show that they are doing something and so they are hauling us up. They haven’t even looked into the fact that more than 400mld of sewage is coming from other parts of the city. Right next to our complex is a large settlement that has no STP, yet they haven’t been inspected till now,” he said.
 
 “While our complex has an STP, it’s a third of the required size and needs repair. Since our builder hasn’t been maintaining it, the residents have spent lakhs on its repair. How could the KSPCB approve this STP in the first place,” he asked.
 
 
