CHENNAI: Would you have to pay more to watch a movie in a theatre once   comes into effect in July? The jury is still out on that. 

 Some chartered accountants say the costliest movie ticket in   -- still one of the cheapest in any metro -- may go up from Rs120 to Rs153. This is a 28% increase, which includes the state-imposed 30% entertainment tax. But shouldn't the entertainment tax go once the single-tax regime kicks in? With state's rights to introduce new taxes being debated upon, clarity is yet to emerge.
 
 While analysts are divided, theatre owners are clueless. “I am not sure how the new ticket price will be calculated based on announced GST rates. We will have to wait and see,” said Chennai Theatre Owners Association president Abirami Ramanathan.
 
 National award winning film critic Dhananjayan Govind subscribes to the view that the 28% increase has to be applied over the existing rate. The current highest ticket price is Rs120, which includes an admission fee of Rs83.3 and entertainment tax of Rs35.7, besides Re1 as maintenance charge. “GST is going to be over and above the prescribed price (MRP) is what most auditors in the film industry believe. Another segment, however, believes it will be covered within the existing price of Rs120 by replacing the 30% entertainment tax with the 28% GST,” Dhananjayan said.
 
 Tamil Film Producers Council (TFPC) president Vishal said any increase in ticket price would be bad. “We have not got the exact numbers yet. It will take a week before we get clarity on the impact that the GST rates will have," said Vishal. To reduce the burden on the audience, Vishal has proposed a centralised e-ticketing mechanism which will bring down the internet booking fee from Rs30 to Rs10. “TFPC can set a centrally-controlled server and enable booking of tickets to any movie hall in the state. The running cost will work out to about Rs10 per head, and this can be passed on to the audience.”
 
 Vishal said the online facility that TFPC proposes to set up will bring transparency. The online mechanism was recently introduced in Kerala and it has been working well. “With better understanding of footfalls through online monitoring, we can calculate profits and ensure producers get their fair share. We want to prevent sale of black tickets as it only serves the theatre owners and not producers,” he said.
 
