AHMEDABAD: A project on building housing colony for construction labourers in Ahmedabad was rewarded among the eight best projects at   2017 – a biennial international competition for the best graduation projects in architecture.  , 28, a post-graduate student of   in Auckland, New Zealand, who conceptualized the project was rewarded at the final award ceremony of Archiprix 2017 held at CEPT University on Friday. The jury of Archiprix 2017 termed it as an ‘excellent example of the social relevance of architecture’.

  “While undertaking my research, I noticed several limitations in the existing on-site labour colonies at the construction sites. These include, waterlogging during monsoons and consequent outbreak of diseases such as malaria and cholera, people inhaling smoke of the wood-fire used for cooking, poor ventilation, natural lighting, drainage and sanitation facilities,” said Hannah, who has been doing a research for her project since 2014.
 
 “While most of these issues can be addressed by architecture, they haven’t been addressed and its consequences are real and measurable with adverse impact on the labourers’ and their families’ health,” she added. Addressing the issue in her project, Hannah designed temporary housing system to accommodate around 280 workers and their families using recycled building materials to make it more environmentally sustainable. The system will improve living conditions for the inhabitants by providing practical aspects of drainage, insulation, ventilation, sanitation, safe spaces for women and children as well as social spaces for communal daily activities, a children’s crèche, open spaces and a structural grid that allows for negotiation and flexibility.
 
 “True solutions go beyond the limits of architecture, but architecture can contribute substantially to improving the quality of life for the workers. My project aims to address what I think architecture is about – making life better for people,” said Hannah.
 
 From the 385 graduation projects designed by 469 young architects, landscape architects and urban designers that were submitted for the Archiprix International Ahmedabad 2017, an international jury nominated 23 projects for the 2017 Hunter Douglas Archiprix Awards. Out of these nominees, 8 winners were selected and announced at the award ceremony.
 
 
