NEW DELHI: Despite PM Modi’s blitzkrieg in the last few days, it was CM Akhilesh   who campaigned the most in Uttar Pradesh, followed perhaps by   state president  .
 
  At his rally number 211, his last in this election season, at Kerakat in Jaunpur on Monday at 5 PM, the CM let out a fervent plea: “This is my last rally of this election and my last appeal to you (crowd) is do vote and help me.” Yadav’s real campaign began from February 1, only after he sealed an alliance with the   after emerging victorious in the family feud. The state witnessed seven rallies by the UP CM on some days.
  
  He covered the constituencies of most SP candidates, combining multiple seats for some rallies. “The CM has done more rallies than any other leader in these elections. He began late, the special rath could not run, still he outran everyone else with his pace,” Sunil Singh Yadav, the party spokesperson who managed the CM’s rallies, told ET. This now rivals 242 rallies done by RJD chief Lalu Prasad and 220 rallies by CM   during the Bihar  .
  
  In comparison, Congress V-P   did only about 40-odd rallies in the state since February, besides three joint roadshows with Akhilesh Yadav. Some SP leaders said Congress could have done more.
  
  Nearly 40 rallies were done just by  . “Her standalone rallies helped SP cover more ground and we found a new and popular star campaigner.
  
  Earlier,   was to campaign for our   candidates, but later many requests came from men candidates too and she did many more rallies,” an SP leader said.
  
  Dimple surprised many with her frontal attacks on the PM, including on the last day when she said she was a soldier’s daughter and was disturbed that BJP was politicising the Army by taking credit of the  . On Monday, both Akhilesh and Dimple campaigned separately in Jaunpur, making the CM say in Kerakat that it was hence a “double appeal” by them.
  
  There were some constant themes in the CM’s speeches — like attacking  , invoking child ‘Khajanchi’ born in a bank queue, justifying the tie-up with the Congress and extolling virtues of schemes like Samajwadi   scheme, free laptops, expressways.
  
  The UP CM was also quick on his feet to counter PMs actions and words, like on Monday when he mockedPMfeedingacowinVaranasi earlier in the day. “The PM, who used to roam abroad, is now roaming in streets of Varanasi for three days due to cycle’s speed,” Yadav said in his last of the seven rallies on Monday.
  
  Realising perhaps that many of his candidates may be facing antiincumbency, Yadav in most speeches reminded the crowd that they were voting not just for the local candidates but also to make him the CM. 
