HARIDWAR: If the mood of seers in Haridwar is any indication, the community is no more the BJP stronghold it had been for decades, even though the majority of ascetics seem to support the party. The Congress has fielded  , an influential godman against BJP's Madan Kaushik, a three-time MLA. The move is expected to cut into the traditional vote bank of the saffron party. "In fact, Congress has already succeeded in making inroads into it with chiefs and inmates of many ashrams and akharas having decided to support the Congress instead of BJP in the assembly polls," said Swami Surendra Muni of Jagatram Udasin Ashram, Kankhal. According to him, Brahmachari stands good chances of winning the election. "Local residents have tested Madan Kaushik three times. They want a change which will favour Brahmachari," he said in a tone of finality. He is not alone to think so, it was pointed out. 

 Baba Hathyogi, former spokesman of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, thinks differently. He said that Brahmachari will suffer due to the anger caused against the state government as a result of house tax rates for religious institutions being increased many times. The government has also failed miserably to check mining in Ganga river. Besides, it has done nothing regarding prohibition. "The CM will lose Haridwar (rural) seat from where he is contesting besides the party being thrown out of power in the state, he predicted adding BJP's Kaushik will win for the fourth time. He saw an anti-Congress wave in the polls. 
 
  of   seemed equally disappointed with both Congress and BJP. Raising the issues of lack of water and pollution in Ganga as well as mining, he said both the parties are to blame for it. "They have done nothing to sort out the problems." We launched an agitation for days demanding adequate water at Ganga ghats as pilgrims were returning disappointed seeing no water in the river for ritual bath. We called off the agitation on the CM's assurance. "But he did nothing in the matter, so we feel cheated," he said. Neither Congress, nor BJP governments took measures to promote tourism, he alleged. "Now, many ascetics besides members of Bharat Sadhu Samaj have decided to vote for no party in the polls. They would rather press the NOTA button," he said. 
 
 
