At 6 feet 4 inches and 96kg with a well-built physique,   might look intimidating in an army attire. 

 According to the Bollywood actor, that’s one of the reasons he was roped in for Major Ravi’s  , which has him playing a Pakistani Army officer.
 As the actor speaks in his trademark baritone about his character and working in his first South Indian film, it’s clear why the filmmaker would have chosen him for the part that has him pitted against   in the movie. Excerpts from the interview…
 
 
 
 It was serendipity.   called me after watching couple of my movies. We met for coffee. I look a lot bigger in person than onscreen, so he was quite taken aback (laughs). He narrated the story to me and I really liked it. More than just the plot, I liked the fact that it was something about the army and the real heroes. I thought it was a really important tale to tell, and unlike the usual war films, the director has brought in a balance to the movie. Soldiers are soldiers. They might be on the opposite sides of a political divide but they are just men like us and are dying for someone else’s cause. I have never done anything like this before. And I am a big fan of war films, so it was really hard to say no when I got the offer.
 
 
 
 Mohanlal sir’s character and mine are rivals. I am commanding the Pakistani troupe across the trench and he is leading the Indian army. So, we have a major face-off. I wasn’t part of the tank crew. I play an infantry man. The entirety of my work was in Rajasthan.
 
 
 
 I was in Kodaikanal since I was six and went to a boarding school there. So I have watched a lot of South Indian films while growing up. I also still keep in touch with my friends there. It’s not a culture that is alien to me. When a lot of Bollywood remakes come out, I am one of those few Bollywood actors who have actually seen the original movies.
 
 The film 1971: Beyond Borders had a thoroughly charming crew. They were supremely efficient and I thought the language barrier was actually sweet because every day while trying to communicate, they would all laugh and I would too, and still we managed to get the job done. We were staying in Suratgarh, Rajasthan, where you don’t have hotels. They were more like highway dhabas. We were all staying together, and they were a warm bunch of people.
 
 Major Ravi was a pleasure to work with; he was so on the ball and confident about what he wants. I think that’s all you need in a director. He is also very open to communication, he let me improvise on a lot of stuff, which was great fun. My character is a Pakistani, so I speak Urdu. Major Ravi would tell me this is what he wanted the character to say and I could do my own version of the lines.
 
 
 
 Working with Mohanlal sir was an altogether different experience. I can’t honestly say if we shared any camaraderie or not. He’s very senior so I wouldn’t dream of getting to tally with him. It was surprisingly effortless working with him though. He’s a very giving actor who is extremely conscious of another actor’s space and method. He is courteous and also knowledgeable. We would walk through some of the fight scenes we had together. He’s done so many films that acting is second nature to him. 
 
 But he never made me feel that way. I never felt like I was an amateur in front of a master. I think to have that level of success, fame and ability and to be so graceful and gracious with it is just incredible. That’s probably the reason why he is beloved.
 
 
 
 I have found that my focus should only be on the quality of the work. If there’s a lovely script and they have a smaller budget, I am not going to let it go because I desire more money. There’s nothing beneath you if the work is good. I focus on the work; and I loved the fact that it had a great director, Mohanlal sir and my part is opposite him and that it was a war film. Every film that you do, no matter the budget, you have anxieties when you start; what you are going to do and how the work will turn out, where will you be staying? But these are all just comfort worries. As an artiste, if the art and craft of the people around you are good and if they are approaching it with a positive attitude, it’s always effortless. I can stay in a rest house, hotel or even a tent – it doesn’t matter. Because everyone else is also giving their all. This was a great project and for me that’s all that mattered.
 
 
 
 I have a cameo in Gurinder Chadha’s Viceroy’s House. It’s once again a period movie and I have done a week’s worth of shooting for them. So, that would be my next release. I haven’t signed anything yet. So, it’s the usual grind of auditions, meeting people and figuring out where the next blessing would come from. 
 
