ROHTAK: Several hundreds of Jat protesters from Haryana left for Delhi on Thursday to participate in the rally at Jantar Mantar to press for their demand for quota in jobs and education for the community. They left for the national capital to extend support to the movement in Haryana even though the   (AIJASS), which is spearheading the agitation, had called for the community members from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh to hand over a memorandum to President Pranab Mukherjee.

 AIJASS chief Yashpal Malik termed the Thursday’s rally as important since they planned to announce the date of laying siege to Parliament to press for their demands. All vehicles ferrying Jats to Delhi started reaching the Haryana-Delhi border crossing in Bahadurgarh around 8am and displayed ‘Jat Nyay’ banners in the front.
 
 To check any untoward situation, police force from Delhi and Haryana personnel manned the national highway-10 on both sides at Tikri border. Delhi cops allowed the entry of rally-bound vehicles after noting down their registration numbers but stopped tractors-trailers in the cavalcade from entering in national capital.
 
 While Sonipat district administration had deployed paramilitary force, a team of Haryana police regulated the movement of Delhi-bound vehicles on the Sonipat-Delhi highway. Heavy deployment of security and police teams prevented things from going out of hand. The Kundi-Delhi border connecting national capital with the state in Sonipat district was under special supervision of law enforcing agencies.
 
 The tractor-trailers were banned to enter Delhi on this route also. Krishan Kumar, a protester from Kurukshetra who was heading for Delhi rally, said they were “anguished over the fact that the state government was not ready to listen to the community’s demands despite their protest for the last 33 days” across the state.
 
 
 
 
 A Jat protester was killed in a road accident near Bahadurgarh of Jhajjar district after he fell down from a tractor-trailer on the Rohtak-Delhi road on Thursday. The deceased has been identified as Vijay Kumar, 20, a resident of Sunaria village of   district. Vijay, who was among several youths travelling in the trailer behind a tractor, was standing in the vehicle and lost his balance when the driver braked to avoid hitting a cow. He was crushed under the tyre of vehicle he was travelling in. He was taken to a trauma centre nearby, where doctors declared him brought dead. 
 
 
