Chetan Advani

 To score well in Chemistry, you must resort to smart work instead of just hard work. First of all, focus on the chapters related to organic chemistry. Read more and more about it because students are more likely to commit mistakes in this section.
 
 I would insist you to write down the reaction in the form of a statement just below the chemical equation. You should mention the catalysts used to enhance the reaction, the name of reactants and product obtained. When you finish writing the reaction, check if the valencies are satisfying at both ends. This way, you can ensure that your answers are error free.
 
 It is mandatory to write the units and you must be extra careful while doing numericals. Sometimes, students don’t read the question properly and just begin solving the numericals without paying attention to the details.
 
 At times, you need to convert the units of the given data from MKS to CGS and vice-versa. You cannot escape numericals because they will be asked for minimum 7 marks. You must go through Solutions & Chemical Kinetics as most numericals are asked from these chapters.
 
 Nomenclature can be problematic for some students. So, thoroughly read the rules given for IUPAC and common name system to avoid confusion.
 
 In chapters like Biomolecules, Chemistry in everyday life and Polymers, you can look out for definitions, their types and uses, explanations of different drugs with examples.
 
 You must try to fit in the chemical equation wherever possible. Even in short notes, if you don’t remember the intermediate product, at least write the reactants and products.
 
 If a question carries 1 mark, then mention just 2 distinct points for it. You don’t need to increase the length of answers unnecessarily.
 
 Create key words to learn difficult reactions. Instead of learning new topics at the eleventh hour, try to revise whatever you have studied previously. Because retaining old concepts in your memory is mandatory to reproduce properly on the answer sheets.
 
 It is not necessary to solve the question paper sequentially. Look out for the question you are very confident about and go ahead with it. Do not waste your time thinking. Be easy and avoid panicking because being composed during the three hours is the most important factor to score well.
 
 The writer is a lecturer at  
 
 
 
 Subject: Chemistry (CBSE XII)
 
 Exam Date: March 25 (Saturday)
 
 Exam Time: 10.30am to 1.30pm
 
 Marks: 70
 
 Expert tips
 
 Write and practice every reaction
 
 Cover different types of numerical
 
 Concentrate only the question that you are solving
 
 Keep ten minutes in the end to revise your answers
 
 Attempt all questions
 
 Last-minute revision
 
 Learn the formulae thoroughly
 
 Go through the name of reaction, products and reactants
 
 Know your paper format to build confidence
 
 (Compiled by Juveriya Khan)
 
