BHOPAL: A farmer, who considers organic farming a videshi (foreign) idea, is pushing for swadeshi form of ‘spiritual agriculture’ with the dung and urine of only “desi cows”.

 Subhash Palekar, who was given a Padmashri for his concept of “zero budget spiritual farming” in 2016, is training over 1,200 Madhya Pradesh farmers in the new technique. “Organic farming is harmful. It is a European concept that creates global warming,” he said.
 
 Agriculture minister   on Saturday told a gathering of farmers that the government would take forward ‘zero budget farming’. “His is a beautiful concept and we have to adopt it. Spiritual farming is really organic farming,” Bisen told TOI. After Palekar objected to the earthworm used in organic farming, agriculture minister Bisen asked the department to ensure that use of “videshi earthworms” is stopped. Only desi sevai-like earthworms should be used, he said.
 
 Palekar believes if a farmer has even one desi cow, he can cultivate 30 acres of land. Fertiliser made from cow dung and urine mixed with water and jaggery among others can work wonders, he said. His magic formula is: 10kg of desi cow dung mixed with 5-10 litres of go-mutra, 200 litres of water and 1kg each of jaggery and dicot flour. This mix is kept in shadow for 48 hours and then sprinkled on 1 acre of land once a month for good yield. “Organic farming is dangerous and leads to emission of greenhouse gases,” he told TOI, adding that he is in   to create awareness among farmers and train them in ‘zero budget farming’.
 
 Why is he against organic farming? All four factors in organic farming have been borrowed from abroad, said Palekar, who belongs to Amravati in Maharashtra. “Compost technique was developed by a British, vermi-compost is a European concept, EM solution was developed by a Japanese and garbage enzyme component of organic farming has been taken from China. Thus, organic farming is not a swadeshi concept. It is fully videshi,” he said, adding after 28 degrees Celsius, organic farming material “starts emitting greenhouse gases, including nitrogen oxide and methane.” Palekar is training farmers at a three-day workshop organised by the state agriculture department and  , an NGO with which Union environment minister   is associated. Organic farming is pushing farmers into debt and reducing the fertility of land, he claimed. 
 
 When pointed out that MP claims to be No. 1 in promoting organic farming, Palekar said, “This is because of lack of awareness. After Union minister Dave went through my books, he recommended zero budget spiritual farming to the state.”
 
  , who was given a Padmashri for his concept of ‘zero budget spiritual farming’ in 2016, is training 1,200 MP farmers in the new technique. He believes if a farmer has even one desi cow, he can cultivate 30 acres of land. Fertiliser made from cow dung and urine mixed with water and jaggery among others can work wonders
 
 
