NEW DELHI: US President   appears to have forgotten that he didn't win the popular vote in the November 8 US elections, because he tweeted last night asking why the hundreds of thousands who protested him on Saturday in the US "didn't vote". 

 Trump's Democratic opponent   won the popular vote by as many as three million votes.
 
  
  
 
 On Saturday, more than 2.5 million people are estimated to have taken part in the 
  and around the world to defend women's rights and oppose an array of policy stances from the new president, AFP reported. 
 
 Of the protesters, half a million were in Washington DC alone, dwarfing the numbers who attended 
  a day earlier. At least a million people marched in other US cities, according to a tally of official counts for 15 major demonstrations compiled by CNN. That figure does not include the many smaller marches held across the country and worldwide, which organizers numbered at over 600, AFP said.
 
 Trump aimed a barb at celebrities because a whole host of them, including  , pop star  , actors  , Scarlett Johansson, America Ferrara and  , also took part in the marches around the US.
 
 After his initial "why didn't they vote" tweet, Trump again tweeted in a slightly more conciliatory manner.
 
 He said:
 
 
  
  
 
 
 People certainly expressed their views on Saturday and peacefully
 
 "Yes, I'm angry. Yes, I am outraged. Yes, I have thought an awful lot about blowing up the White House. But I know this won't change anything. We cannot fall into despair," Madonna said at the march in New York City,   magazine reported. The singer later clarified that she didn't mean she wanted to 'literally' blow up the White House.
  
  
 
 Actor and political activist Ashley Judd read out a poem written by a 19-year-old poet Nina Donovan. The poem was titled: 'I am a Nasty Woman'. The reference was to Trump calling Clinton "such a nasty woman" in one of the US Presidential debates.
 
 
 "I am a nasty woman, but not as nasty as a man who looked like he bathes in Cheeto dust. I'm not nasty, like the combo of Trump and Pence being served up to me in my voting booth. I'm nasty like the battles my grandmothers fought to get me into that voting booth," Judd recited, according to Variety magazine.
 
 
 
  
 (Video: YouTube via Lev Grossman News)
 
 
 
