NAGPUR: The Super Specialty Hospital (SSH) has got itself into yet another controversy. Even as over 150 patients visit the outpatient department (OPD) at the department of gastroenterology every day, with 2-3 of them requiring surgery, the   had been closed for the last eight months. 

 Now, a dispute between the associate professor (AP), who joined back recently, and the head of the gastroenterology department has almost paralysed OPD functioning, leaving patients as well as students harassed.
 
 Associate professor Dr Amol Samarth has alleged that his chamber in the ward is even now locked up by department head Dr Sudhir Gupta, forcing him to work from the corridor outside.
 
 Dr Samarth told TOI he had been facing problems due to Dr Gupta in practicing as well as teaching. He said, “While attending OPD, if I admitted patients, Dr Gupta would discharge them by evening. He also used to brainwash my students not to follow procedures taught by me. He wouldn’t allow me to use medical instruments. He would always accuse me of not attending the complete day, which is not true. Functioning at the department was becoming worse day by day.”
 
 The AP claims to have written to the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) and   and Hospital dean Dr Abhimanyu Niswade, but none of them took cognisance. Finally, he went on long leave from June 1, 2016, after which the OPD had become non-functional.
 
 Dr Samarth added, “When I came back on February 6, 2017, Dr Gupta refused to sign my joining letter. I had to get it signed from hospital   Dr Manish Shrigiriwar. However, the next day, Dr Gupta locked my OPD chamber.
 
  A week after that, the nurse in-charge gave in writing to the OSD that the locked OPD is hampering patients, following which a new room was allotted to me. However, I am still sitting in the corridor and looking after ward patients since my ward chamber has been locked up by Dr Gupta.”
 
 Dr Shrigiriwar said, “The AP took leave beyond three months and will require DMER’s permission to join back. I have already written to DMER but this process may take three months. Till then, we don’t want to let go a candidate with a Doctorate in Medicine (DM) and posted as associate professor. So, I signed his joining letter. No other candidate is qualified to hold this post.”
 
 Dr Shrigiriwar also admitted that the AP’s chamber is locked, and said he will look into the matter.
 
 Dr Gupta said, “The AP did not go on official leave, he was absconding. On one hand he used to apply for non-practicing allowance, on the other had he has been carrying out private practice. He used to visit SSH only to give attendance. So, I had complained against him and an enquiry committee was also set up.”
 
 Also, Dr Gupta rejected Dr Samarth’s claim that he was an AP. He said, “Dr Samarth is basically an assistant professor, who was given ad hoc promotion in 2015. His tenure as assistant professor expired in 2016. According to MCI, an assistant professor has no authority to have a separate OPD chamber.”
 
 Sources from SSH said, “This isn’t the first time there has been a complaint against Dr Gupta. In the past too, doctors have resigned because of similar problems with Dr Gupta.”
 
 SSH OPD closed for the last eight months 
 
 Dr Samarth claims to have written to DMER and GMCH dean but none took cognisance
 
 The AP went on long leave from June 1, 2016 after which the OPD was closed
 
 Dr Gupta refused to sign Samarth’s joining letter after he returned and locked his chamber 
 
 Dr Gupta said Dr Samarth carrying private practice at the hospital
 
 Inquiry committe set-up against Dr Samarth
 
 
