BHUBANESWAR: Sword of Damocles hangs over the head of Congress state president   as the party’s vice president Rahul Gandhi may name the former’s successor anytime. In the backdrop of growing revolt against Harichandan from his colleagues and massive preparations by BJD and BJP for 2019 elections, at least 35 Congress leaders from the state met Rahul in Delhi on Monday and demanded complete overhaul of the party’s organisational setup in the state. 

 Rahul, who convened the meeting of his party’s 16 MLAs and other leaders in the wake of growing infighting, interacted nearly five minutes with each touring leader during the individual discussion at his residence. Harichandan too was present in the discussion.
 
 “I proposed to change the existing leadership in Odisha. I hope most of my colleagues must have raised the same demand. Rahulji assured to announce name of the new Congress state chief very soon,” Rajnagar MLA   told TOI over phone. 
 
 Jharsuguda MLA Naba Kishore Das said change of leadership was not the lone agenda. “Apart from change of leadership, we also discussed with Rahulji on strategies to counter BJD and BJP in 2019 general elections,” Das said. 
 
 Senior legislator and leader of opposition   said his interaction with Rahul was fruitful. “He sought suggestions to strengthen the party in the state. He also received feedbacks about our weaknesses. He assured to take new strategies ahead of 2019 elections,” Mishra said. Mishra kept mum when asked whether he proposed to change the party’s state leadership. He even parried whether he and his colleagues raised the issue of infighting in the party before Rahul. 
 
 Despite repeated attempts, Harichandan could not be contacted for comment. Sources said Rahul discussed with him after interacting with all others. Demand by several Congress leaders of Harichandan’s ouster grew shriller in the run-up to February Panchayat elections as several delegations of the party met Rahul in Delhi and revolted against the state leadership. 
 
 The fresh meeting came a day after   and chief minister   revamped his council of ministers. Like many other states, Congress appears worried about BJP’s surge in Odisha after the saffron party pushed the former to the third position in the recent Panchayat elections to occupy the space of the principal opposition party. Congress has also reasons to worry of possible exodus as the party’s Odisha in-charge B K   recently accused the BJD and the BJP of “poaching” its leaders.
 
