KOCHI: Prior to implementing the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act 2014,   has identified a total of 2,328 street vendors in the corporation area. However, the daunting task before the local body is to identify the genuine vendors who make a livelihood out of sales on streets who need to be rehabilitated. A committee comprising councillors, officials and vendors has been formed for this purpose to identify the genuine vendors. 

 "The vendors identified for rehabilitation will be given identity cards under   (NULM), which was formed to address the concerns of urban street vendors by facilitating access to suitable spaces for vending, institutional credit, improved skills and social security linkages," said health supervisor of the corporation Beena T K.
 
 While conducting the survey, officials stumbled upon some unfair practices involved in street vending in Kochi. "We found a merchant who brings fruits from Tamil Nadu, distributes it among his employees who work as street vendors in the city. The workers get only their daily wage by selling fruits while the merchant amass all the profits. We need to take a decision on such matters", said welfare standing committee chairperson A B Sabu. "We also found many vendors are 'seasonal'. With identity cards, we can prevent such issues," Sabu added.
 
 The local body needs to find out for how long a vendor has been working in a particular area. That will be one of the main criteria for identifying a genuine vendor.
 
 All these years, the corporation and revenue officials tried to evict the illegal street vendors but to no avail as the encroachers would come to the same place next day after eviction.
 
 Aneesh Mattanchery, a rehabilitated street vendor in Fort Kochi said, "When the local body rehabilitated around 56 street vendors near Fort Kochi beach in 2008, many beneficiaries were unqualified people. 
 
 They later leased out food courts or sold out to others for a lump sum amount, he said, and added that those who were favourites of political parties or association members had been included in the list.
 
