HARIDWAR: The recent episode of a Haridwar-based sadhu, Swami Achyutananda, who anointed himself as shankaracharya of the Dwarka Sharda peeth on Mahashivratri day has brought into focus the proliferation of shankaracharyas across the country. 

 Adi Shankaracharya who started the monastic order set up only four 'maths' whose chiefs were to be ordained as shankaracharyas. But it is estimated that over 50 seers have proclaimed themselves as shankaracharyas of various peeths, although exact numbers are hard to come by. Disputes and litigation are ongoing in many. 
 
 In the Dwarka Sharda peeth, for instance, there are currently three seers, including Achyutananda, who have declared themselves shankaracharya. Swami Swaroopananda, the incumbent shankaracharya of the peeth, soon after Achyutananda's anointment, claimed he would file a criminal case against the seer. 
 
 Haridwar sadhus say that the move by “a few individuals who are desperate to grab high religious offices by any means” is giving the seer community a bad name. These things are very disappointing, and put the sadhu community under a cloud,” said Swami Ravindra Puri of Mahanirwani Akhara. Another seer Brahma Vidyanand said, “None of the self-styled shankaracharyas can hope to fulfil the stringent eligibility conditions for becoming a shankaracharya laid down by Adi Shankaracharya. Only someone with pure conduct and character, possessing deep knowledge of the scriptures including the Vedas, Vedantas, Puranas, and Prasthanatrayee, which includes the Upanishads, Brahmasutra and the Gita, can be appointed shankaracharya.” The anointment must have the sanction either of the predecessor, or of the Kashi Vidwatparishad, a body of scholars based in Varanasi, he added. 
 
 TOI tried to speak with some of the seers who are alleged to have taken on the title of shankaracharya. One of them, Swami Rajarajeshwarashram, the chief of Jagadguru Ashram at Kankhal, who has anointed himself shankaracharya of Dwarka Sharda peeth, said he was in Nagpur and would be in a position to speak in detail only when he returned to Haridwar in a couple of days. 
 
 Another sadhu Trikal Bhawanta Saraswati, a woman seer, who claims to be shankaracharya of Gayatri Triveni Prayag Peeth, said male sadhus were biased and not giving the shankaracharya's post to females. "A lawsuit regarding my anointment as shankaracharya is pending in the Allahabad high court but I am confident it will soon be decided in my favour,” she said. 
 
 According to Brahma Vidyanand, most of the selfstyled shankaracharyas had assumed the title secretly. “That is why nobody bothers much about them, nor is their number known,” he claimed.
 
