BIJNOR: Uttarkhand police have invoked   on eight people from   MP   and former minister  , all from the   and also raided their homes for arrest. The matter pertains to the election of zila panchayat president in 2013 in which the then candidate for president, Vijayaviri (independent candidate but supported by BJP) had taken her supporting voters to a hotel in Uttarakhand to avoid horse trading but these eight men had “abducted” the voters from the hotel with the help of UP police and brought them back to Bijnor to compel them to vote for their candidate. An FIR was lodged in the hill state accusing the SP leaders of abduction.
 
  On Tuesday night around 11pm, police from Lakshman Jhula in Uttarakhand raided several places of Bijnor’s Dhampur in search of the former minister, MP and others, but could not arrest them. So far only former SP leader Shehwaz Pathan had been arrested on March 24.
  
  Sanjay Pratap Singh, SHO Dhampur police station, said, “On Tuesday night a team of Uttarakhand police raided the houses of Moolchand Chauhan and Yashveer Singh but with no result. Police on Wednesday morning returned to their state.”
  
  SHO, Lakshman Jhula police station, BL Bharti, said, “The case about district board polls which were held in Bijnor in 2013. Our team raided the house of the accused but they had fled.”
  
  According to the police, the election for the post of district board chairman was held in January 2013 here. The then ruling SP fielded its candidate, Nasreen Saifi, while Vijayaviri, wife of former ADO Chhatarpal Singh was her opponent, as an independent candidate (supported by BJP leaders). There was a tug-of-war between Saifi and Vijayaviri to entice the voters. In this election, only members of the district board were entitled to cast their vote. Both the camps were picking up the voters and taking them to a safe place so that the other could not poach the voters.
  
  Vijayaviri had shifted her supporters to a resort in Lakshman Jhula. Former ADO Chhatarpal Singh said, “It was intervening night of January 17 and 18. SP leaders including then state minister Moolchand Chauhan, his son Amit Chauhan, present MLA from Nagina Manoj Paras,   Yashveer Singh, Sherwaz Pathan along with police force raided the place where our voters were staying. They beat them up and kidnapped them and Nasreen Saifi was elected as a district board chairperson misusing political power. I had filed a complaint against all SP leaders who were involved in the abduction.”
  
  Singh alleged, “Then Uttrakhand Congress government had withdrawn the case and the court quashed it. I had challenged the order of local court in the high court. In September, 2016, high court accepted my plea and ordered the local court to restore the case. Since then case was going on in Pauri Garhwal court but none of the accused presented themselves in the court while several dates have been fixed for hearing. After this, the court issued arrest warrant against them.”
