MUMBAI: The   will soon send   it had collected last year to bolster its case for 16% reservation for the   community in education and public sector jobs to the Maharashtra State Backward Class Commission for  .

 On Thursday, the state informed the   that the commission had earlier not scrutinized any data collected by the Narayan Rane committee to study the socio-economic conditions of Marathas and make recommendations about reservations, and said the data now available is “multi-dimensional and extensive, touching various aspects like socio-cultural, socio-economic, socio-political, historical, geographical and merits a detailed examination” The HC bench of Chief Justice Manjula Chellur and Justice Girish Kulkarni observed that it was the “prerogative of the state” to send the data it collected to the commission for analysis.
 
 A petitioner, who had challenged the Maratha reservation, also opposed the state’s keenness to send the data to the commission. He argued that the law required the state to first have had quantifiable data before introducing the reservation in 2014 and cannot be allowed to gather data after the enactment to justify it. Another petitioner supporting the reservations had sought court’s permission to send the data to the commission for its scrutiny and recommendations. The state, when asked by the HC, said it too wished to present the date before the Maharashtra State Backward Class Commission.
 
 The court too saw “no impediment” in the state sending the data, which includes farmer suicide rates among Marathas, to the commission, which is now headed by a former high court judge Justice S B Mhase. 
 
 Some counsel made submissions that there be a timeline for the commission, but none was set.
 
 The HC, on a plea by the government, continued the interim employment to candidates from the open category to government jobs reserved under the Maratha  , on which there is a stay, for another six months. 
 
 The HC had stayed Maratha reservations after a bunch of PILs challenged its constitutional validity alleging violation of a Supreme Court ruling that set a 50% cap on reservations in a state. The HC will hear the PILs in the third week of June.
 
 
