DEHRADUN: Days after Char Dham yatra began in Uttarakhand, four pilgrims were killed and six others injured — all hailing from Amravati in Maharashtra — after the vehicle they were travelling in from   to Kedarnath fell into a 300-metre-deep gorge in   tehsil of Tehri Garhwal district Saturday afternoon.
 
  The accident took place after the driver of the Tempo-Traveller, Shahnawaz, one of the injured, allegedly lost control over the vehicle that fell into a gorge between Kemundakhal and Chamiyala, about 175 km from Dehradun, killing four on the spot.
  
  In all, there were nine pilgrims and a driver in the vehicle, which they had hired from Haridwar for Char Dham yatra, and visited Gangotri shrine before leaving for Kedarnath in Rudraprayag district on Saturday morning.
  
  Tehri senior superintendent of police (SSP) N S Napalchiyal said all the six injured were rushed to a Baleshwar hospital in Tehri. “Four people were killed on the spot, and among the six injured, two are critical, while the other four sustained minor injuries. The critical injured are being airlifted to Dehradun for further treatment at   hospital.”
  
  The deceased have been identified as Chandrakant Kelkar (61), Kunda Kelkar (50), Meena Tai (48) and   (46), while the injured are Sudhankar Musre, Purnima, Archana, Satish Vasudev and driver Shahnawaz, who hails from   in Haridwar.
  
  Divulging details, Napalchiyal said, “The accident took place around 12:30 pm under Ghansali police station when the pilgrims were on their way to Kedarnath from Gangotri in  .”
  
  According to reports, locals rushed to the accident scene and launched rescue operations on their own. In the meantime, they also sounded police, which throng the spot in 30 minutes and took over rescue operations.
  Soon, district magistrate Sonika and Napalchiyal also reached the accident site to monitor the rescue operation.
  
  “Family members of the deceased have been informed, and they have left for Uttarakhand,” said the SSP.
  
  Meanwhile, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat expressed grief over the incident, and declared a compensation of Rs 1 lakh to the next of kin of the deceased, Rs 50,000 to critically injured, and Rs 25,000 to those who sustained minor injuries.
