 is on an   to beat his own   feat by   along the entire western coastline of India. Khade, accompanied by girlfriend Shanjali, who will be cycling along the coast, aim to cover the distance in 100 days. A member of India’s dragon boat racing team that won nine medals in the Asian Championship, Khade talks about his introduction to the sport, thanks to a visit to Goa, his experience of the expeditions and India’s absence on the water sports map, despite its huge potential.
 
  Your kayaking experience started from Goa. Was it a sudden interest or have you been into water sports before as well?
  
  It was the dolphins in Palolem to be honest. A friend and I took a kayak out to be closer to them. And I fell in love with kayaking. It followed me back to Bombay. A boat show in Panjim introduced me to a trainer in Bombay. And I’ve been kayaking every since. It was an interest in the risk of being 2 kms out on your own that built up my love for water sports. I also sail now.
  
  How was the experience during your first major expedition when you travelled from Mumbai to Goa?
  
  Mumbai-Goa was quite a path breaker. I feel I was a novice when I did it, so there was a lot of learning. The tide changes, the wind, the changing landscape, everything was spectacular and new. Sandbars in the sea caught me offguard and people welcoming me into their houses was an amazing experience.
  
  Also, we had a lot of close shaves. With crash landing in beaches with no way out apart from walking 6kms, or facing headwinds for 3 hours straight, everything was a new experience.
  
  How has been the experience so far in this expedition. You are targeting 3,000 kilometers -- what are the challenges? Any particular record you are eyeing?
  
  The experience has been rather different this time. Gujarat was a totally new state. And very different. Because of the state’s shape, the winds changed directions everyday, and tide fluctuations really made a difference. Both the gulfs (Kutch and Khambhat) are very treacherous and it changed the speed on the water. Rocks, eddies, fishing poles, marshy lands and sandbars have all posed challenges.
  
  The primary challenge is to keep going. Everyday we finish in pain and the next day we start afresh. You need to have a short memory of yesterday’s challenges and an eye on the prize.
  
  There’s also the fact that no one has run the coast like this. Sailors too haven’t been this close and fishing vessels haven’t gone this far. So you’re mapping out the terrain yourself. I’m attempting to set a larger Limca record for the longest solo kayaking by an Indian.
  
  Our country’s societal setup generally doesn’t encourage sports. What was your experience in that, as you made a tectonic shift from being an IIT alumnus to being a kayaker?
  
  It’s one of the most important things I’m campaigning for. Kayaking hasn’t arrived in India. Despite winning two silver medals and one bronze in an Asian Championship people don’t know about it. Sports in India needs corporates to invest in them.
  
  Regarding the shift, people ask me what I do and I say - I kayak. And they say, “Right, but what do you do?” And I know they want to know about my product manager past.
  
  How do you see the future of kayaking in the country? What are the hurdles involved?
  
  India is already doing well at competitive events. When we participated in our maiden Asian Dragon Boat Championship, India came back with six silver medals and three bronze medals. I see us doing very well, but people need to know more about it. This is why I took to expeditions because more people get to know about the team and what they are doing.
  
  India boasts a coastline spanning 7,500 kilometers yet that is not shown in our presence in the water sports arena. Are we utilising the opportunity in our hands to its full potential?
  
  There is a lot of competitive sailing, kayaking and canoeing in India. But obviously it can be grown to new heights. The 7,500kms make us the 20th largest coastline, but we aren’t anywhere close to being that high on the scene. Not that there should be a correlation, but we aren’t running at capacity in terms of sports people on the water.
  
  I’ve seen sportsmen from south-east Asia, South Africa, Hungary. There is a massive chasm between confidence levels, conditioning, the way they are treated by their country officials. It comes through exposure and respect for sports. We need more of that. We need people to get up and pay attention.
