AHMEDABAD: There may be hundreds of complaints pouring into the civic body’s grievance box requesting removal of wandering dogs, but each of these are being turned down by the   (AMC). 

 “We cannot do anything as the animal welfare board rules are strictly against removing of stray dogs from their areas,” says a senior official of AMC’s cattle nuisance department. Over the last month the AMC has received 454 complaints. The maximum being from the new west and areas like Bodakdev, Ghatlodiya and Jodhpurgam. Last week the CNCD department while replying to an RTI query claimed that some 69,906 dogs have been neutered between 2014 and 2016 for which the municipal corporation spent Rs 4.21 crore. 
 
 This indicates that an average of 95 dogs were neutered everyday by four agencies. Each of these agencies were paid close to Rs 600 claim AMC officials. “Each agency neuters close to 23 dogs in a day which is being disputed by some competing neutering agencies. We may check the authenticity of these figures supplied to us,” says a senior AMC official.
 
 Stray goes missing, resident files complaint 
 
 Ahmedabad: A lawyer in a housing colony on   road registered a complaint with the Sabarmati police station after a stray dog called ‘bhoori’ went missing. The dog was taken away by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) appointed neutering agency last week and released within the society premises five days later.
 
 The complainant,   claimed that the AMC’s neutering agency released the dog on February 16 at Padmaprabha society on ONGC road. Sharma says that the dog was not feeling well after neutering and was last seen in the open ground behind the society on Friday evening, after which the dog went missing. 
 
 “The dog never left our premises. We fear that he she may have been killed and her body disposed off,” claims Sharma in her complaint. She has requested the Sabarmati police to investigate the case under relevant sections of laws pertaining to cruelty towards animals.
 
