PUNE: The fate of the ambitious project to lay 1600-km long water pipeline is now hanging in the balance.

 The project intends to overhaul the entire water supply network in the city. But the stop work notice to the 24X7 water supply project has raised questions about the future of the pipeline work costing Rs 1,800 crore. The entire project was expected to be completed by 2020-21.
 
 All the pipelines in the city, including the one laid during the British era, were to be replaced to prevent leakages and curb water wastages.
 
 The state has ordered an inquiry into the tendering process for construction of water tanks after questions were raised against it. Elected members had raised objections against invitation of tenders for construction of 82 water tanks during the winter session of the state assembly. The   ( ) in its inquiry report had justified the action to club the tenders for 24X7  .
 
 According to PMC officials, no immediate relief is expected from the stop work order. The civic body has already issued tenders for laying the pipeline. The civic body will have to dig up the recently laid concrete roads in some areas for the pipeline.
 
 “The issue has taken a political turn now. Finding a breakthrough will take some time. The decision is not expected soon. It may lead to delay in the execution of the big ticket project under equitable water supply system,” said sources.
 
 The sources added that as per the project’s timetable, the deadline to submit the bids for pipeline work will end on March 31. After that actual ground work was to start in three months. But with the fate of the project hanging in the balance the invitation of tenders will get lukewarm response; putting the whole project in jeopardy.
 
 PMC had issued eight tenders for construction of water tanks. Small firms had expressed interest in carrying out the project but later all these tenders were merged and the contract was given to a big industry. The merger was questioned in the assembly session and an inquiry was ordered by the state government.
 
 According to the civic administration, the inquiry report stated that the delay caused due to stoppage of work may lead to cost escalation, so the decision on withdrawing the stay should be taken as soon as possible. Stop work order can also lead to legal complications.
 
 “We have submitted the report. Now we are expecting action from the state government,” said V. G. Kulkarni, head of PMC’s water department.
 
 Citizen activists felt cost escalation or delay will ultimately affect the project. “More funds from the tax payer’s money will be given to the project. People will have to pay more but will get the benefit late. The politicians should be held responsible for this interruption,” said  , member of Sajag Nagrik Manch.
 
