NAWADA: The authorities have snapped   services in  , where   has thrown normal life out of gear for the last three days.
 
  Sources said Nawada DM Manoj Kumar ordered the withdrawal of internet services on Thursday noon to prevent spread of rumours and provocative messages by vested interests. The DM’s move followed the attack on Aurangzeb, a policeman, while he was on duty near a Lord Hanuman temple on Wednesday midnight. The temple is situated a few hundred metres from the official residences of the Nawada DM and SP.
  
  At the time of the incident, Nawada SDO Rajesh Kumar and SDPO Sanjay Pandey were offering prayers at a mazaar nearby apparently as part of the administration’s efforts to spread the message of universal brotherhood. They rushed to the constable who had his head smashed, and took him to a hospital.
  
  A worried state government drafted ADG Gupteshwar Pandey, zonal IG Naiyyar Hasnain Khan, Magadh division commissioner   and DIG Saurabh Kumar to the strife-torn town. Five companies of forces, including central armed police force, were also dispatched to quell the possibility of any communal flare-up, esepcially when the Ram Navami procession is taken out on Friday.
  
  The DM told newsmen on Thursday he had assured a VHP and   delegation that the administration would provide protection to the Ram Navami procession between 2pm and 6pm. Though DJs have been allowed in the procession, the organisers have been warned against playing vulgar numbers.
  
  Earlier on Thursday morning, Nawada district VHP and Bajrang Dal conveners Raj Kumar and Jitendra Kumar pulled down several flags and posters of Lord Ram and announced that the Ram Navami procession would not be taken out in protest against the alleged police excesses on their activists.
  
  After the DM and the SP assured them that they would be released, the flags and posters were restored.
  
  SP Vikash Burman told newsmen 30 people had been detained for rioting, but nine of them were released on being found innocent. 
