NEW DELHI: In a big breakthrough, Chinese researchers claim to have successfully repaired   defect that causes beta  , a blood disorder, in human embryos. The result has been published in the journal Protein and Cell’s September issue.

 The scientists at China’s Sun Yat-sen University, study report says, conducted the experiment in cloned human embryos.
 
 They took skin cells of beta thalassemia patients, removed their DNA-containing nuclei and introduced them into donor eggs collected from infertile couples. The eggs developed into early stage embryos that carried the beta thalassemia mutation.
 
 Then, they edited the bases, single building blocks of DNA, using a technique called Crispr. Our DNA is made up of four bases, namely adenine, cytosine, guanine and thymine.
 
 In beta-thalassemia patients, the disease is caused by a defect in a single base in the genetic code. The scientists claim they were able to fix the defect by 20%. Scientists say if the experimental success is replicated further, it might pave the way for similar action to prevent hereditary disorders where genetic mutation is the cause of transmission.
 
 “The explosive growth of human genomic data has revealed unprecedented numbers of disease-causing point mutations. Repairing such mutations may offer the best, and in some cases, the only cure for genetic diseases,” they have reported.
 
 Dr Anupam Sibal, medical director of Apollo hospital, said the successful experiment is a scientific marvel. “It holds out a big hope for thousands of patients suffering from genetic disorders. But that may take time,” he said.
 
 Beta thalassemia is a common genetic disease in China, India, and   region. It is a blood disorder that reduces the production of haemoglobin, the iron-containing protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen to cells throughout the body.
 
 In beta thalassemia patients, low levels of hemoglobin leads to a lack of oxygen in many parts of the body which can cause anaemia, and other serious complications.
 
 People with beta thalassemia are at an increased risk of developing abnormal blood clots.
 
 The signs and symptoms of thalassemia major appear within the first 2 years of life. Without treatment, doctors say, many patients suffering from the disease die before they are five years of age. Those who survive require lifelong blood transfusion and iron chelation treatment and even then complications remain.
 
