BENGALURU: Progressive thinkers, political leaders and activists, religious heads, jour nalists and writers from across the country came to gether here on Tuesday to condemn the "prevailing at mosphere of hate and intoler ance" which they said mani fested in the murder of jour nalist-activist   took part in the protest meeting, `I am Gauri' held at the Central College Grounds, following a massive rally from the Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna railway sta tion to the venue of the public meeting. Sporting black badges that read # IAmGauri, the protesters demanded justice for Gauri. Anger and grief alternated through the day , as slogans of "Naanu Gauri, Navellaru Gauri," (I am Gauri, We are all Gauri) rented the air.
Many of the speakers, including Gauri's mother Indira Lankesh, sister Kavitha and civil rights activist Teesta Setalvad, couldn't hold back their emotions and broke down. Choking with emotion, Indira said, "All of you have become my Gauri for me. I wanted my daughter to become an engineer, but she chose journalism. She fought with every sinew of her body."
 
 Gauri's brother Indrajit was also present in the meeting.
 
 The organizers of the pro test meeting are planning to organize similar events across the country . Lawyer-activist Prashant Bhushan said a big ger rally involving civil soci ety representatives will be organized in New Delhi soon Senior journalist Sid dharth Varadarajan said jour nalists across India will on October 2 hold a candlelight vigil near statues of Mahatma Gandhi. Social activist Swami Agnivesh said he would launch a protest march in Haridwar on September 21, the World Peace Day. Recalling her association with Gauri, civil rights activ ist Teesta Setalvad said, "We both were born in 1962. But . she called me her little sister as I had to learn a lot from her." Recalling the May 2014 victory of Narendra Modi-led BJP in   elections she said, "We cried together in May 2014, lamenting where the country has come to."
 
 CPM general secretary Si taram Yechury said even if there was no direct evidence that RSS members had killed Mahatma Gandhi but then home minister Sardar Vallab hbhai Patel got the outfit banned. "Their crime is that they have created an atmos phere of intolerance, to cele brate the killings," he added.
 
 Taking exception to PM Narendra Modi's silence over the killings of progressive thinkers, Narmada Bachao Andolan leader Medha Patkar said: "While violence is doing nanga naach in the country , the prime minister is preparing to celebrate his birthday on September 17."
 
 "The PM was all in praise for Sanatana Samstha, suspected to have carried out murders of Gauri, Kalburgi, Dabolkar and Pansare at the BJP's plenary in Goa in 2013.Now, we will fix a date to question Modi. We will hold a protest meet in Delhi," Dalit activist Jignesh Mevani said
 
 
 
 
 Shivamurthy Murugha Sharanaru, the seer of Murugha Mutt, said pontiffs of various mutts too are facing death threats as they are profess progressive thinking."Eight months ago, I received a threat call and I had to complain to police. Even seers are not safe if they are progressive thinkers," said Sharanaru.
 
 Other seers, including Virabhadra Channamalla Sri of Nidumamidi Mutt, Jaya Mrutynjaya Swami of Kudala Sangama Panachamasali Peetha, Nijagunananda Swamiji of Nijaguna Mutt and Swami Agnivesh, endorsed Sharanaru's views. But they asserted that they will never be cowed down by threats to life. The protest meet passed a resolution that the probe into Gauri's murder must be speeded up and culprits be brought to book at the earliest. Ministers U T Khader and H M Revanna received the list of demands.
 
 
 Even as the protest meet opposing Gauri Lankesh's murder was happening, the BJP at another protest meet said "the intellectuals have no better work to do than condemn the BJP and RSS."
 
 BJP leaders who had assembled at the Palace Grounds for a party event accused the Congress of levelling baseless charges against the Sangh Parivar."From dawn to dusk, the intellectuals think it's their job to criticize and accuse the BJP & RSS," said BJP opposition leader Jagadish Shettar.
 
