Chennai: Powering over 25 billion customer interactions ever year, US-based Genesys’s technology offers omnichannel customer experience to over 10,000 customers across 100 countries. Slava Zhakov, CTO,   talks to TOI about new age technologies that the company is deploying to ease customer interactions.

 How is analytics and AI is changing customer experience?
 
 Analytics and AI gives us the ability to create more personalisation. Say you are browsing your bank website late night looking for options to transfer money to a recipient in another country. There are two options but you don’t know which one to pick. When you call the bank next morning, the Genesys software identifies who you are and predicts what you could be calling for. An automated voice guides you to someone who is proficient with the area where you need help. The agent is simultaneously sent information on what you could be calling for and is able to guide you. Say the call disconnects. You immediately get a call from the agent and the conversation continues. It’s a pleasant and shortest possible resolution for the consumer, and it saves cost for the enterprise. These technologies also facilitate better connect between consumer and resource. We have a product that offers predictive matching, taking parameters of the consumer and the agent to drive better experience and business outcome. For example in the case of a banking customer, we consider past interaction duration, no of calls, balance in the bank account etc. Say, in a span of 3 months, there were atleast 5 calls every week on a particular issue, we could use that intelligence to help the next customer.
 
 Tell us about your speech and text analytics tool.
 
 If you are talking to the bank representative and are progressively getting angrier, we can escalate it to the next level. The senior can then silently move in and coach the agent. Our tool will transfer the call if the threshold of excitement goes above a particular level. If the customer says something like - I am going to close my account – the call will be escalated. Our technology can not only identify cue words but analyse phrases and context of the conversation. For example, if a customer says, “I was so frustrated when I called you but I am satisfied now. Thank you so much.” Most systems will detect the word ‘frustrated’ and escalate the conversation. Our technology will analyse the phrase and identify that the customer is actually happy. We are also able to train agents and define good and bad habits using the millions of conversations that we facilitate every day. A supervisor can easily select two similar conversations by an agent and help him understand which he handled better. The tech helps in assessing the agent based on historical data and real time. If an agent is routinely capable of addressing a particular issue, the next time a query comes up, we can route it to them. 
 
 There a lot of CRM players like  , Salesforce and   Dynamics. How is your business different from theirs?
 
 We provide infrastructure and intelligence to connect consumers and enterprise. When consumers make a phone call or chat or send an email, Genesys understands who the customer is, the context of the conversation and connects the call to the most appropriate resource. CRM provides records and a database of customers and their details. We provide the communication and intelligence. We frequently integrate with CRM systems on the customer side. For example, we are partnering with Salesforce, Microsoft CRM, Zendesk, SAP and Oracle CRM.
 
 
