KOLKATA: Almost 90% of the students who join   in Santiniketan are unaware of the contribution of   and his students in designing the original handcrafted  . On Republic Day, that’s an observation made by the principal of Kala Bhawan Dilip Mitra. However, the silver lining is that they begin to take interest in it once they start taking lessons at Tagore’s abode. In some cases, Mitra has also noticed a trend of “reviving” Bose’s tradition when they are designing alpanas and following tempera methods.

 The original handcrafted Constitution of India was exquisitely designed and executed. The fine calligraphy was done by Prem Behari Narain Raizada using a holder and nib (nib no. 303). Along with his students, Bose had completed the art work. The Preamble page was done by Beohar Rammanohar Sinha. Another Kala Bhavan artist associated with the artwork was Kripal Singh Shekhawat from Rajasthan. Bose had personally sketched Gautam Buddha and Tipu Sultan, among others. According to Shiv Kumar, professor in history of art department, “Most of the works are derived from images in Indian art. The borders are largely derived from the scrolls of Ajanta paintings. The other works were based on Indian relief sculptures. Sometimes, one can recognise images derived from traditional Indian art.”
 
 Tapas Bhowmick, librarian of Kala Bhawan, isn’t sure about if the Constitution is kept in the library. “I didn’t even know that the Constitution had artwork designed by Bose,” Bhowmick added.
 
 Kala Bhawan’s museum curator Sushovan Adhikari pointed out that Kala Bhawan has also changed with time. “I have found a majority of students too busy with their syllabus, studio work and semester. Most of them don’t know about Nandalal Bose and his students’ illustrations and artwork for the Constitution of India,” Adhikari said.
 
 There is a reprint of the iconic work that has been kept in the library of Kala Bhawan. “Recently, I went through it while writing a book on Bose. However, very few student know about the existence of this reprint. Lesser still go and take a look at it,” Adhikari added.
 
 Said Sanchayan Ghosh, associate professor of Kala Bhawan’s painting department, “The problem lies in accessibility of things and information about this copy reaching students.”
 
 Soumyadipta Sen, a PhD scholar at Kala Bhawan, admits that not too much of discussion happens on this issue on campus. “I never knew about it before I joined Kala Bhawan. Some of my friends have taken a look at it though I am yet to do so,” Sen said.
 
 Sisir Sahana, professor of Kala Bhawan’s design department, pointed out that the fundamental issue with the current generation is that most of them are ignorant about the tradition. “We are still in awe when we see the kind of detailing in Bose’s works. During the time Bose had designed the Constitution, he had also done other works. As a principal, he made a handwritten detailed documentation of all archival material in the Kala Bhawan museum. If a teacher shows this to the students, they will learn,” Sahana said.
 
 But did Bose’s successors in the artworld follow the tradition he left behind with his work in the Constitution? “During Bose’s time, artists had to assert their nationality that was partly spurred by colonial criticism of Indian art. Nandalal brought all that back to the fore. Post-independence, that focus shifted. Artists were interested in doing work that established themselves as part of the world,” Kumar said.
 
 Yet, conceptually or otherwise, many artists have sought inspiration from Bose. “KG Subramanyan didn’t take the surface stylisation though he was inspired by Bose’s structuring of Indian art. Then, there have been A Ramachandran, Gulam Mohammed Sheikh, Nilima Sheikh and others who have been inspired,” Kumar pointed out.
 
 According to Sahana, there are some conceptual similarities between   with the way current students attempt to design book covers and illustrate pages. Ghosh insisted that the current students are now engaged in reinterpretation and reengagement with the tradition followed by Nandalal Bose. “But that is in context to the new global and urban phenomenon. Without concentrating on his works in the Constitution, I see an expansion of the idea of eclecticism that Nandalal had initiated,” Ghosh said.
 
