NAGPUR: After keeping it on hold for over three months, the   ( ) has finally released the appointment letter of the candidate who was selected to the post of research officer. 

 Sanjay Gajbiye, currently working as section officer at Neeri, received the letter on Friday. He has been given a month to join. “As per my current contract, I would have to serve a three-month notice period to Neeri. As per government rules, the joining period can be stretched up to six months,” he said.
 
 On April 13, TOI had reported how the NU was dilly-dallying in announcing the interview result, allegedly to favour a candidate backed by Dr Ambedkar Chair’s head Pradeep Aglave.
 
 The NU had held back the announcement on the pretext that it was a co-terminus post and that the selected candidate, if having a stable job, would be rendered jobless as soon as the term of the head of department’s comes to an end.
 
 Aglave, who is professor in the Ambedkar Thought department, is on lean period to the Ambedkar Chair department. Aglave, who is on US tour, couldn’t be reached for comment.
 
 Registrar Puran Meshram, who too is currently on US tour, told TOI over phone that Aglave’s lean period was extended by a year after it expired on April 30. Meshram clarified that co-terminus referred to the term of Chair. 
 
 “The Chair’s term is extended every five year,” Meshram said.
 
 On April 13, he had said that “the research officer will have to resign if the head of the department resigns or retires” while explaining why the appointment was being delayed.
 
 Gajbiye too said NU had advertised for the post on May 27, 2016, and conducted interviews of shortlisted candidates on January 11. Some aspirants had alleged that the announcement was deliberately delayed to favour the chair HoD Aglave's candidate.
 
 Meshram refuted the charge and stated that the delay happened because of model code of conduct due to civic elections besides the coterminus issue.
 
 On May 27, 2016, NU had invited applications for the post of research officer in open category. The advertisement stated that the post was to be filled on regular basis in Dr Ambedkar Chair and that it was sanctioned by  , Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, New Delhi.
 
