Will the February 4 elections be a game changer?  My answer is a firm yes. Every election is. Even if it’s just ruffling of feathers, the government that will settle in the saddle will have a changed look. If not for change, why elections? The fact that we are asked to exercise our constitutional right to vote clearly means that the Constitution wants the people to bring about a desirable change. So here is an opportunity, especially for those of us who day in and day out criticize the government.  Problems are galore. Unfortunately, issues get politicized when solutions could be found through dialogue. Issues like the medium of instruction (MoI), OL or Mopa are communalised; SEZ or Regional Plan are blown out of proportion. Illegal mining, drug nuisance and gambling on casinos are never taken seriously by the elected parties, though every single candidate vouches to stop the menace if voted to power. Every bit of the issue turns into a divider. Hate-mongering has entered Goa that is best known state for her exemplary communal harmony. Castes and religions are potent and divisive forces all over India. Can’t we prove that we are different? Former US president Barrack Obama, in his farewell speech, said, “We must guard against a weakening of the values that make us who we are.” He further said, “All of us, regardless of our party, should throw ourselves into the task of rebuilding our democratic institutions.” Let’s trust our youth who will vote for the first time to keep the corrupt, greedy, casteist and communal elements at bay. Ultimately, what we need is good governance. It is heartening that the chief election officer of Goa has taken pains to reach out to first-time voters. With India becoming the world’s youngest country, with 64 per cent of its population in the working age bracket, the youth has a definite role to play. Goa is no exception. With the Western world and countries like Japan and China aging, India’s demographic potential offers her growing economy an edge that economists believe could add a significant 2 per cent to the GDP growth rate in the near future. But success cannot come without hard work. India, and in particular Goa, needs to concentrate on the youth who are the pillars of our future. Our youth must realize the significance of electoral power. It is necessary to help them turn their attention from looking to the West for greener pastures and instead open avenues within Goa. Politics can be a challenging field that they can enter, not as business prospect, but as an opportunity to serve for the state’s well-being. Will they? Demonetization was introduced with great fanfare supposedly to curb corruption and to drive fake money out of the system. The present election scenario is the best situation to judge the rationale behind the government intentions. The role of money bags has always remained a major concern for fair conduct of elections. Election funding is easily the biggest source of corruption in the country and obviously no one is genuinely keen on curbing this menace. “Why me alone. Let others start” seems to be the general refrain. Look at the corporate houses who are the main contributors to election funding. As part of their survival instincts, they generally go with the tide. So many of them do so much wrong that it is important for them to be on the right side of those who wield power. Without the patronage of authorities, the rich can’t be powerful. And to get that power, they sink funds into those who are in power or are likely to come to. Almost all political parties admit that it will be a good way of reducing corruption, but none want to be the first one to bell the cat. The elections are drawing closer. Soon people will queue up at the booths to cast their votes. Their choice will be sealed. When they are done with, will they return home with their conscience clear, that they haven’t allowed the false promises to overtake their better judgment? The writer is a Sahitya Akademi awardee and a prominent author