PUNE: The  's order banning liquor outlets within 500 metres of   has come as a boon to those outside the periphery with many of them witnessing doubling and even tripling in their sales.

 For instance, wine shops in areas such as Kothrud, FC Road, Yerawada and Model Colony have said that their sales have gone up three to four times since the ban, with peak hours witnessing never ending queues of tipplers.
 
 Industry sources said there has been a 50% rise in customer footfall in restaurants that do not come under the Supreme Court purview.
 
 Ganesh Shetty, president, Pune Restaurants and   (PRAHA), told TOI that permit rooms and restaurants that do not come under the purview of the ban have witnessed an exponential rise in footfall post the apex court verdict.
 
 Nilesh P Kolapkar, Post 91's director, said, “Our business has gone up by 30% since the ban. There were over 50 people waiting to find a table last weekend. People now have a limited choice of restaurants and bars to visit, so the frequency of their visits to restaurants and lounges that have not been affected by the ban has increased.”
 
 A top source from the Pune District Wine Merchants' Association said that out of the 263 wine shops in the district, 168 have shut down, causing a spurt in footfalls during peak hours. “Outlets that are still selling liquor are witnessing a four-fold rise in sales. For instance, in Kothrud, rough estimates show that out of the 24 liquor shops, only four are currently functional, while only a couple of them are operating on Ahmednagar Road,” he said.
 
 TOI contacted 12 wine shops falling outside the 500 meter radius of various highways passing through different areas in the city. Two wine shops on FC Road have witnessed 1.5 times rise in sales since the ban while sources in another liquor vend in Kothrud said that their sales have quadrupled.
 
 Other functional wine shops in areas such as Ahmednagar Road, Hadapsar, Peth areas, Yerawada, Gokhalenagar and Kalyaninagar witnessed an increase in sales by over two-folds to four-folds in the last few days.
 
