AHMEDABAD: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday assured   that it would correct its press release about initiation of insolvency proceedings by lenders against 12 defulters, including  , before the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT).

 On Wednesday, the high court sought explanation from the RBI on how it could issue a directive by stating that “such cases will be accorded priority by the National Company Law Tribunal”. The court was of the opinion that the bank cannot issue any mandate to a judicial forum.
 
 To this, the RBI’s counsel explained that such a directive was a mistake committed in a press release, and it was not part of the directive issued to lenders on July 13. However, the mistake would be rectified and wide publicity given to this to clear the confusion. The court also asked the RBI to do the needful in this regard.
 
 The court had come down heavily on the RBI for this after   complained about such instructions in its petition against the Standard Chartered bank approaching NCLT’s Ahmedbad bench for insolvency proceedings against the company. The high court passed an ex parte order on Wednesday that the NCLT would adjourn the insolvency proceedings scheduled on Thursday against Essar, and issued notice to the RBI seeking its reply to Essar’s petition. 
 
 The high court has now asked the RBI to file its reply by July 12 when further hearing is posted. Meanwhile, the Standard Chartered bank as well as a leading lender, State Bank of India, have assured the high court that they would not press for any proceeding before the NCLT till July 12.
 
 In its objection to insolvency proceedings, Essar has raised the contention that the RBI’s recommendation for insolvency proceedings for all accounts with fund and non-fund based outstanding amount greater than Rs 5,000 crore, with 60% or more classified as non-performing by banks as of March 31, 2016, was in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution. Essar Steel, which has a debt of about Rs 42,000 crore, has also argued that the debt restructuring process was going ahead very well with a payment of more than Rs 3,000 crore in the past one year, but the RBI’s sudden directive may disrupt the process because the appointment of Interim Resolution Professional (IRP) may complicate things further for the company. Once the NCLT admits the matter, the IRP will supervise the process for next nine months and, in case of failure to turn around, the company may go into liquidation.
 
