NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: BJP’s clean sweep in UP polls has evoked mixed reactions in some corners though the urban centres overwhelmingly welcomed it.

 For some residents, BJP’s win is the dawn of a new era for development and an end to dynastic politics. Some others went a step ahead and said that it is the ‘reversal of V P Singh’s politics of Mandalisation.’ “I have been waiting for this day for 25 years. The victory of BJP brings a 360 degree reversal of Mandalisation initiated by V P Singh. Sad it took 25 years to clear the mess that was created by Singh. The SP and BSP were all unfortunate fallout of Mandalisation. The political scenario was dominated by casteism instead of growth and development issues,” said Anil Batta, CEO of Marketels, a Noida-based enterprise.
 
 Ashok Hak, senior vice president Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Associations (FONRWA) maintained that the massive win for BJP augurs well for the country, UP and Noida city. 
 
 “BJP’s victory is a sign of approval for Modi's leadership, development initiatives, and it also shows that people want to junk disastrous appeasement politics,” said Hak.
 
 Residents are also hopeful that the law and order situation in the state would also improve in the coming months. “We are hopeful that the government would work for better law and order and development,” said K K Jain, RWA president Dhawalgiri (B5), Sector 34.
 
 Meanwhile, P S Jain, president, Indian Citizen Council (ICC) sees BJP victory as a clear acceptance of Modi’s policy of demonetisation. “We can look forward to coordination of Centre and state governments,” said Jain. 
 
 While Mohinder Singh, RWA executive member, Sector 40 added that the poor governance of BSP and SP over the past two decades have compelled the people of UP to vote for change.
 
 In Ghaziabad, the mood is no different. While Alok Kumar, a resident of Arihant Harmony, Indirapuram and an RTI activist hoped Atul Garg (Ghaziabad) and Sunil Kumar Sharma (Sahibabad) will work towards implementing the Lift Act, which is absent from Uttar Pradesh, Colonel T P Tyagi, a resident of Indirapuram expects better accessibility and responsiveness from the BJP government. 
 
 
