CHENNAI:   ( )’s plans of conducting this season’s   from February 26 may hit a roadblock after the   ( ) deemed it ‘illegal’. It’s been almost 11 months since last season’s league got over, but the association is yet to announce the winners after getting itself into a legal tangle.

 TFA president J Villavarayar questioned the viability of the league. “They have got almost a year to get their house in order. But they haven’t come up with a solution. The statute of TFA says you need to conclude last year’s proceedings before starting next season. So it might be illegal to conduct the league,” Villavarayar told TOI on Sunday.
 
 Last season, Chennai FC finished at the top of Super Division table with 28 points while Viva Chennai were second with 25 points. However, CFA’s decision to dock Chennai FC three points for fielding ‘ineligible’ players forced the side to lodge an appeal in the Madras High Court. After almost six months of hearing, the HC ordered the club and the association to settle the matter outside court.
 
 CFA, though, stuck to its stand and it forced Chennai FC to appeal to TFA. Villavarayar said TFA had instructed CFA to not jump the gun and put everything on hold. “Neither CFA nor the club had their papers in order. So we were unable to arrive at a decision. That’s the reason we referred the matter to All India Football Federation (AIFF). The matter is yet to come up at the general body. So we asked them not to jump the gun until we decide,” Villavarayar said.
 
 CFA secretary E Sugumaran said they will go ahead with the league. “Our statutes don’t say that we cannot hold the tournament if we don’t conclude last season’s league. At the end of the day, we want development of football in the state. That will only happen if we conduct tournaments. So we are going to go ahead,” Sugumaran said.
 
 Interestingly, Chennai FC are gearing up to play in this season’s league. They have also appointed former Mohammedan Sporting coach Tope Fuja as their manager. “Our hands are tied. So we have started our preparations. But we are keeping our options open. If the AIFF takes too much time in announcing a decision, we will approach the court again,” a club official said,.
 
 
