MANGALURU: The   (MCC) on Friday rebutted charges of former MLA   that the civic body has been supplying contaminated drinking water to many wards in the city. Mayor   claimed that laboratories tests showed that 98% of the water supplied by the corporation is potable and free from contamination.

 Harinath said the 2% contamination is due to mixing of sewage into drinking water due to the on-going road works as both the pipelines run parallel. “Even this has been attended to by the MCC staff,” he added.
 
 Palemar had said that the drinking water supplied by the MCC to most of the wards is not suitable for drinking. He had claimed that he did get water samples collected from Surathkal, Katipalla, Krishnapura, Chilimbi, Bondel and other places tested at an NABL-accredidated laboratory and the report showed the water is highly contaminated with faecal coliforms. 
 
 The mayor said that adequate precautions have been taken from source point to the supply point besides using a modern filtration system. The laboratory at Thumbe filtration unit monitors filtration of water and chlorination. Further chlorination is being done at Bendorewell, Panambur and Thumbe water filtration units.
 
 Mangaluru City South MLA JR Lobo said MCC does test the quality of water at regular intervals and it was done again after Palemar's accusation. ``We cannot accept the findings of a private lab as we don’t know whether proper procedure is followed or not while collecting samples. We have tested the water samples in the areas pointed out by Palemar and only 2% of samples showed coliform,'' he said.
 
 He also expressed his displeasure at Palemar for creating a panic-like situation and said if his accusations are true, then half the city's population should have been sick with infectious diseases like cholera or they should have symptoms like diarrhoea or vomiting.
 
 Lobo said such false news does not augur well for a city and Palemar should have taken the corporation officials into confidence before making a public statement.
 
 
