VISAKHAPATNAM: Despite the introduction of   modes in primary sector market yards, the lack of proper storage facilities for perishable goods has affected the quality of the products. Despite growing demand, the   in   district are still ill equipped.

 Sources in   market, which serves as the wholesale market for flower sellers from north coastal AP, Odisha and West Bengal, complained that the storage space is extremely low. 
 
 “The Anandapuram flower market is a very old daily shandy and still remains so. The market itself is barely spread over a few acres of land and the storage facilities are extremely primitive,” K Ayappa, a wholesale dealer from the market said. 
 
 “We cannot operate beyond a particular volume on a daily basis and are forced to reject stock as the storage facilities are virtually non-existent. Bare storage space which is properly covered and can offer shelter to the packed flowers for at least two days is also missing,” he said. According to him, the number of storage sheds were less than 10 and they were only partially covered and not multi-tiered.
 
 Similar is the case for the vegetable market yards in Visakhapatnam (near   and  ), and the one at Anakapalli.
 
 “I sell about three tonnes of bananas per day. Bananas do not have much shelf life like most fruits. However, there is no way of storing it. The sheds and buildings are in deplorable conditions. The government can help improving the volume of storage space through multi-tiering. We can then accommodate more stock as there is always enough demand for basic fruits,” said R Narsimham, a wholesaler and trader of bananas in Poorna market.
 
 A Nookala Rao a merchant in the Anakapalli market yard, said unless the market yards are modernised, the amount of produce wasted would always be high. “Let the government build a modern multi-tiered refrigerated storage facility for high-end fruits and vegetables. The traders can ensure that they are available over an extended period of time, handle more volumes and reduce the price. Products such as potatoes, tomatoes and even mangoes can be sold better this way. Maybe in the short run, the expenses will be high. However, the traders can take the space on rent, thus ensuring that the government makes more money.”
 
 P Mahesh, a mechanical engineer, said “Cold storage facilities which are multi-tiered and multi-produce serving in nature can be set up for Rs 3.5 crore on just 4,800 square yards of land (roughly an acre). It offers roughly 5,000 metric tonnes worth of storage space.” 
 
 Mahesh further added that market societies could avail loans from various banking agencies including NABARD. However, he said very few state governments have given this the necessary push. According to Mahesh, this would help make Indian agro-industry export oriented benefiting both the farmers and traders.
 
  The sheds and buildings are in deplorable conditions. The government can help improving the volume of storage space through multi-tiering. We can then accommodate more stock as there is always enough demand 
 
 
