NAGPUR: In a step towards privatization of Nagpur airport, the Union home ministry has granted security clearance to five private companies, which had responded to request for qualification (RFQ) floated by   (MIL). This can follow with the process of inviting financial bids.

 MIL, which is the current operator of airport, hopes to start the bidding process by December end.
 
 Flights connecting   countries are expected to take off from Nagpur in coming days.  , which runs a maintenance repair and overhaul (MRO) depot here, has indicated that it plans to start flights to countries such as Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore from here. It would deploy the large-bodied planes like B-777 and 747, which are flown to the MRO.
 
 MIL too got the financial push to create infrastructure required for handling large planes. Board of directors of Maharashtra Airport Development Company (MADC), the majority stake holder in MIL, has approved a grant of Rs7 crore for expanding parking bay to accommodate B-777 and B-747 type of planes, stated an MIL press release.
 
 Air India plans to start flights to new domestic destinations from Nagpur too.
 
 MIL is a joint venture of MADC, a state government entity, and   (AAI) having a 51% and 49% stake, respectively. MIL plans to give up 74% stake to a private partner, which would develop the airport on revenue sharing basis.
 
 In October last year, six companies had responded to RFQ. All the companies, which include GVK  , PNC Infratech, Tata Reality and Infrastructure, GMR Airports Ltd, Essel Infra Project Ltd and IRB Infrastructure Developers, were found eligible to bid further. However, this also needed security clearance from the home ministry. Other companies, except IRB, submitted the documents to the ministry, which cleared the case of five other entities.
 
 “Now, a draft concession agreement and papers for request to proposal (RFP) will be prepared. Internally, a deadline of December-end has been set for starting the bidding process, which will take place under RFP,” said a source.
 
 Certain formalities related to lease of land will have to be finished first. MIL is a joint venture between MADC and AAI, whose equity contribution is in the form of land. However, separate lease agreements for the land have to be signed between MIL and the two entities. This will begin with AAI, which has to first finish survey of its land. The process has been expedited and expected to be over soon.
 
 The private partner will be a capital investment of Rs1,420 crore in the first phase and take up 74% stake. Bids will be quoted on the quantum of revenue to be shared with MIL, which will remain a minority holder then.
 
