NAGPUR: The state-level expert committee on tiger rehabilitation on Friday gave a green signal to release the captured tigress (T27-C1) of Brahmapuri in its original habitat, with the condition that it be released in an administratively suitable area for tracking it in future.

 Earlier, PCCF (wildlife) AK   had told TOI that all options to release the tigress have been kept open. “I’ve not received the committee’s report, but if it has given a go ahead, we will release the tigress in a suitable habitat and location. It needs to be given a chance,” said Misra on Friday.
 
 Currently, the tigress, which was captured on July 10, has been kept at   rescue centre. It is healthy and doing well. The decision to release the tigress was taken after marathon discussions by seven expert members amid many ifs and buts. They also agreed not to release the tigress at the location where it was captured.
 
 The members were tight-lipped about the exact discussions at the meeting. However, one of the expert members,  , said, “The committee has recommended release of the tigress as early as possible in an administratively suitable area after fitting it with a radio collar.”
 
 According to sources, the meeting discussed threadbare whether conservation of an individual tiger is important or species as a whole. During the last six years, 4-5 problem tigers have been removed from Brahmapuri division. “It is not a question of one tigress being removed. Every year 10 cubs are born in Brahmapuri division alone, so how does it matter? Relocation should not be on emotional grounds,” said one of the experts.
 
 “If this is so, then all tigers coming from conflict areas will have to be caged, flooding rescue centres and zoos. We took the decision on scientific basis,” said a panel member.
 
 However, Misra also cited the cost of caging a young tiger for 14 long years. “It is better to give a fresh lease of life to the animal. We will collar the tigress and a dedicated team will monitor it. In case of problems, we will recapture it.”
 
 Some experts on the panel agreed that all the factors were in favour of the tigress, which is young and trying to establish its territory, and healthy. If it settles down, it can add at least 8-10 tigers in her lifespan, they said.
 
 Even National Tiger Conservation Authority’s (NTCA) standard operating procedure (SOP) states that if a tranquillized tiger is found to be healthy, in prime or young age, and without any incapacitation (loss of canine, injury, broken paw etc), then it may be released after radio collaring in a suitable habitat with adequate prey base, away from the territory of a resident male tiger (if any), or human settlements.
 
 Many wildlife NGOs and conservationists were against the release of the problem tigress since it has killed two persons and injured five. However, experts countered, “It is difficult to say how the tigress will behave after release. The attacks in case of T27-C1 occurred when people ventured deep into the forest. In these cases, the tigress has not consumed dead person’s flesh,” they added.
 
 “The fact that a particular animal has killed more than one human being does not prove it to be a man-eater. The circumstances under which the animal killed the human being have to be examined in detail to arrive at any conclusion,” they added.
 
 
