HYDERABAD: The family of Adam Purinton, the alleged killer of Srinivas Kuchibhotla in Kansas, apologised to the bereaved family while saying they never thought Purinton was a ‘racist man’.

 “First of all, I would like to deeply apologise to the victims and their families, we are sorry for their loss and the senseless actions that have occurred. My uncle was never a hateful person and was never a prejudiced person. He had a very bad drinking problem and it has progressed through the years and when my grandpa (his father) passed away in October 2015, he went downhill from there. He has been trying to get help with his drinking and physical health,” Adele Mathews, niece of Purinton said. 
 
 Even as there has been an outrage over what is believed to be a hate crime, Mathews said that Purinton was never a hateful or prejudiced person.
 
 “My family and I have been in such shock and pain that he would do something like this. Just because it’s not him to even think about killing another individual. I don’t want people to think of him as a monster because that’s not who he is. He just made a very, very bad decision that hurt and affected everyone around him,” she said.
 
 Whether Purinton, 51, violated the civil rights of a person is something the   (FBI) is investigating parallel to the Olathe police investigation into the shoot-out at Austin’s Bar and Grille on February 22.
 
  In the incident, an aviation engineer   of Hyderabad, India succumbed to bullet injuries. His friend, Alok Madasani, also an aviation engineer hailing from Hyderabad, suffered bullet wounds. A local man Ian Grillot who tried to intervene in the shooting was also shot and has been hospitalised.
 
 Meanwhile in Olathe, Austin’s has reopened after the Wednesday night incident. A large number of people stopped by and placed flowers at the memorial for Srinivas Kuchibotla. The community which turned out at Austin’s was welcomed by the management hoping that it could be the place that it used to be where people bonded.
 
 At the memorial, someone left a hand written card offering condolences to his family and feeling sorrowful at the incident. On a tree close by, a heart-shaped poster with Srinivas’ name hanged. Brandon Blum, the owner of Austin’s in particular welcomed those who were there that night on Wednesday when the incident of shooting had taken place. 
 
 Pastor Mark Hinojosa who had rushed to Srinivas’ assistance after he was shot, was among those who went back to Austin’s which reopened. “Bandon, one of the owners sat down with us for a few minutes. I bought a gift card for Ian and left it with Brandon to thank him for what he did trying to help,” he told TOI.
 
