NEW DELHI: “Venkaiah   will find a way of getting around all that,” remarked PM   when foreign minister   jocularly pointed out that the constitutional office may deprive Naidu of two of his pet interests — the media and frequent travel. The PM’s response, typically understated and pithy, drew another round of laughter as the comment acknowledged that Naidu was not the sort to be tied down by protocol and the cares of office. The PM, who has often wondered at Naidu’s peripatetic ways, should know.

 “Don’t worry, we will not let your BP shoot up,” the PM told Naidu after the   leader filed his nomination on Tuesday. Leaving the party as becoming the next vice-president will require is not an easy task for Naidu who has been an ideologically committed warrior in the saffron cause. The leader stressed as much when at the meeting of the BJP parliamentary board on Monday, he turned emotional and could not continue after a point.
 
 The meeting ended on a lighter and more celebratory note as his colleagues ribbed him on his penchant for alliterative speeches and how this might have to give way for more gravitas. Modi noted that Naidu would become chairperson of RS after four unbroken terms.
 
 BJP chief   told the meeting that Naidu’s elevation was a loss for the party, while Modi said the leader had personally visited nearly all districts of the country. “Those who have worked for the BJP know how he (Naidu) gets work done,” Modi said. “He has been a good listener and always made pertinent points in cabinet meetings,” the PM added.
 
 “Having been brought up by the party after I lost my mother at a very young age, it was very painful to leave the organisation,” Naidu told his party colleagues. “I had already made up my mind. I told my colleagues also that I want to see Modi come back again in 2019 and then I will call it off and join social service... but destiny decided otherwise. I have agreed with whatever decision was taken finally after discussion,” Naidu said. “I am now above the party. I do not belong to a party. From a humble agricultural background, I rose to this level because of the support of the people and BJP,” he added.
 
 
