LUCKOW: It has just been five days since   were brought into effect at   to facilitate   and long queues of vehicles, frequent jams and confusion are already giving nightmares to those commuting to, from or via  , Indiranagar, Nishatganj, Rahimnagar, Vikasnagar, Aliganj, Janakipuram and the adjoining areas. 

 The route for   rail was decided over two years ago but neither Lucknow Metro Rail Corporation nor   police has been able to implement a proper traffic plan before bringing into effect any diversion.   being the busiest route of the city and used by commuters in Mahanagar and Nishatganj, while traffic moving towards Indiranagar calls for attention to problems faced by commuters. 
 
 In the present diversion, two-lane traffic from Mahanagar and Nishatganj is being diverted on less than a lane’s width, which is about 3.5 metre. Faizabad Road is four-lane but with metro barricading about 9 metre in the centre, it leaves only about 5 metres (about 2.5 metre) on sides for traffic on both sides to move. Even including the roadsides without encroachments, both sides get less than 6 metre width, which is way less than space required. 
 
 SP Traffic told TOI, “Here, two-lane traffic gets less than a lane’s width to move towards Indiranagar. Similarly those coming from opposite direction, merging with Mahanagar traffic (which takes a U-turn) to reach Nishatganj flyover are getting less than one lane to move. This is a serious problem and can’t be sustained for long as it will lead to major traffic bottlenecks at all following roundabouts. We have to negotiate with LMRC to provide us at least one lane on each side to facilitate regular commuting.”
 
 Another big problem is lack of metro marshals and traffic policemen on site to monitor diversion. During inspection, only two marshals were found at the   guiding Mahanagar traffic to turn left, away from the the flyover and take a U-turn to reach it. Traffic police faced a tough time and some who took a shortcut were issued challans. 
 
 Also, only three traffic personnel was present on the site, unable to clear the jams. Moreover, there is no supervision on smaller modes of public transport like rickshaws, e-rickshaws and tempos parked randomly on roadsides and hindering traffic. The chaos is aggravated during rains when puddles form on roadsides, congesting the route further.
 
 
