AHMEDABAD: The resignation of senior judge of   high court Justice   on Monday has evoked strong reactions from   here against the   collegium's transfer and promotion policy . Justice Patel has sought to be relieved from duty following his impending transfer to Allahabad high court.

 Following Justice Patel's resignation, the Gujarat High Court Advocates' Association (GHAA) called a meeting on Tuesday and decided to go on strike on Wednesday and file a petition in the Supreme Court challenging Justice Patel's transfer just before his appointment as Karnataka HC's chief.Chief Justice S K Mukherjee of Karnataka HC is retiring on October 9, and being No 2 in the HC, Justice Patel was likely to be elevated as either acting chief justice or chief justice.
 
 The Karnataka State Bar Council (KSBC) and the Advocates Association of Bengaluru also condemned Justice Patel's transfer. Y R Sadashiva Reddy , co-chairman of the Bar Council of India and member, special committee of the KSBC, said, “Honesty has no place if one were to look at present scenario of the justice delivery system of the higher judiciary in Karnataka.“ Expressing its disapproval against Justice Patel's transfer, the GHAA passed a resolution that read, “The decision of the collegiums of the SC of transferring Justice Jayant Patel, senior-most judge of the Karnataka HC, on the eve of his likely appointment as acting CJ or CJ of that court, to Allahabad HC has shaken the belief of the Bar in the independence of the judiciary and has the potential of adversely affecting the morale of the legal fraternity and the judiciary. The association strongly condemns the aforesaid decision of the collegiums of SC.“
 
 The GHAA has urged all Bar associations in Gujarat courts and tribunals to abstain from work “as a mark of protest and to vindicate the independence of judiciary“. Following this appeal, the Bar Council of Gujarat has called a special meeting of 25 executive members on Wednesday morning, and an appropriate decision will be taken then, said Bar coun cil member Anil Kella.
 
 GHAA has also decided to file “appropriate legal proceedings before the SC challenging the decision to transfer Justice Jayant Patel. It will also demand full disclosure of reasons of the collegiums with regard to the appointments, transfers and promotion of judges in HCs and the SC.
 
 While Justice Patel has not stated any reason for putting in his papers in his resignation letter sent to the CJ, he said that his proposed transfer to Allahabad high court, wherein he will be No 3 in seniority , prompted him to take this decision. He was scheduled to retire in August 2018.
 
 “My transfer is contemplated for Allahabad high court, but there is no point in going there since there is not much time left for my retirement. I worked for 15 long years in Gujarat high court and everybody knows about my work there,“ Justice Patel said when asked about the reason behind his sudden resignation.
 
 Justice Patel, who was elevated to the bench in Gujarat HC after his 22-year prac tice as an advocate, became an acting chief justice in August 2015. One of many cases he presided over was the 2004 Ishrat Jahan encounter case, where he ordered a CBI probe.
 
 After Justice Patel became acting chief justice of Gujarat HC in August 2015, his bench stayed Gujarat government's politically ambitious move to make voting compulsory for all citizens in local body elections.
 
 It was the bench headed by Justice Patel that quashed Gujarat government's ordinance delaying local body polls after the Patidar reservation agitation. The bench quashed the ordinance and directed Gujarat government and the Election Commission to hold elections in time. BJP got a major setback in rural areas in these polls.
 
 GHAA president Asim Pandya termed the development as a big blow to the rule of law and said, “If judges are to be punished for their judgments in this fashion, the fundamental rights of citizens will just remain on paper.“
 
