NEW DELHI:   Limited is the only two/three-wheeler company to inform Environment Pollution Control Authority on Friday that it will comply with EPCA’s direction of not manufacturing or registering any pre-BS-IV vehicle from April 1. 

 The company has said no amnesty should be given to other companies as that would hurt Bajaj commercially. Even if a short-term amnesty of one-two months is given, it should be accompanied by a “sizeable financial penalty on per-vehicle basis on all BS-III compliant vehicles registered after April 1, 2017”, the company wrote to  . 
 
 The SC-mandated authority reiterated that no leeway would be given to the manufacturers and the regional transport offices (RTOs) would have to stop registration of all non -BS-IV vehicles from April 1. It will meet two-wheeler manufacturers again on February 17.
 
 In a meeting called by EPCA on the countrywide rollout of BS-IV norms, most commercial vehicle manufacturers submitted that they won’t be able to comply with the direction because of the pending inventory. The companies, including  , Mahindra, Eicher Motors, Piaggio and Ford India, submitted that on an average, they sell about 60,000 to 75,000 vehicles every month. They also highlighted that commercial vehicles have a four-stage process in which the chassis is bought separately. “They were aware of the April 1 cutoff date set by EPCA last October but said they still cannot commit to any timeline,” said an official who attended the meeting. 
 
 Bajaj, on the other hand, said, “You were kind enough to give a five-month notice to the industry... Bajaj Auto will be complying with this directive. In fact, we have commenced dispatches of BS-IV vehicles to our dealerships in a phased manner since October 16.” It added, “We should not be seeking any amnesty especially when the directive concerns a burning issue.” 
 
 Urging EPCA not to allow any amnesty, the company said, “Tightening emission norms comes at a cost. If amnesty is given, those who don’t change over on time will actually benefit by selling their products at a lower price during the amnesty period.” 
 
  EPCA discussed its plans to audit all PUC stations across NCR and asked state governments, including Delhi, to submit all data. It also said the governments could use CNG-run mechanised vacuum cleaners.
 
