KOLKATA: The   on Sunday were a low priority for tourists and locals in Darjeeling, who gathered in front of the giant screens across the Mall on a cool Saturday evening to watch the IPL match. Cut to Domkal in Murshidabad — there was hardly any business in the local market, such is the scare.

 If there was a poll-o-meter to gauge the public mood, then the scene in the four Hill municipalities — Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Kurseong and Mirik — the readings would have similar to daily temperature readings in the municipalities in the plains — Pujali, Domkal and Raiganj — going to polls on Sunday.
 
 Tell-tale signs of the tension were all too apparent around Dakghar and Budge Budge areas leading to Pujali municipality in South 24-Parganas on Saturday. Auto-rickshaws went off the roads, putting a question mark on what is in store on Sunday. Outsiders have checked into several lodges in the neighbourhood, said CPM South 24-Parganas district secretary Shamik Lahiri. Rival BJP is busy holding meetings with activists over poll booth management in a bid to take a pie in this Trinamool-dominated municipality. Trinamool, though confident of victory, fears its own men due to internal bickering.
 
 Domkal and Raiganj are already under the scanner. The State Election Commission has already engaged a DG-rank police officer to oversee the polls in Domkal to avert violence during polls, particularly after a Trinamool Chhatra Parishad leader was killed in Behrampore in the run-up to the polls. The Domkal market put on a deserted look on Saturday evening. Dakshinpara residents (ward 16) kept indoors on Friday night while miscreants opened nine rounds of fire in the locality. 
 
 With police beefing up surveillance on Behrampore-Domkal Road, the supply of arms has shifted to the Jalangi-Domkal side along the Indo-Bangla border, and also to Bakshipur in Nadia. 
 
 “Chances are that a couple of jote (Congress-CPM) candidates may ask people to vote for the ruling party,” a Domkal resident said.
 
 Outsiders are also a worry for the poll battle in Raiganj, where Trinamool is desperate to win a majority. Priya Ranjan Das Munshi loyalist Mohit Sengupta is leading the opposition camp here. People fear mobilisation of toughs from the neighbouring villages — Chakulia, Chopra and Itahar — that have stockpiled arms for long.
 
 The scene in the Hills is different. Even as Bimal Gurung’s GJM is likely to face a tough contest at Mirik from the Trinamool-GNLF combine, Harka Bahadur Chhetri’s Jan Andolan Party may give GJM an edge at Kalimpong by splitting opposition votes. 
 
 Trinamool, however, is banking on “spontaneous support” of voters after chief minister   gave Kalimpong district status. GJM has an edge over others in Darjeeling and Kurseong, where the demand for separate statehood dominates the minds of the people over development issues. 
 
 “Trinamool has shown its frustration by getting state ministers to seek vote for candidates in a small election such as the one to the municipality. They are using state machineries to crush the statehood demand. But people will vote for a separate state, for their land,” said GJM assistant general secretary Binay Tamang.
 
 
