'Kha, piye, aani majja kar!’ With this,  , the mythical king of carnivals, will declare the year’s four-day   celebrations open on February 25. Oh, what one would give, just to head to Goa and partake in the customary grand colourful parade at Panaji, along the Mandovi river! If that ain’t happening, the Goan community settled here in Pune, has a celebration of equal pomp on the cards, if not more. And the best part is, you’re invited! 

 
 
 Festoons adorn the courtyard of the 113-odd-year-old   ( ) at Rasta Peth. Here’s where the city’s Goan community will meet for a weekend of fun and frolic. Back in Goa, the grand parade is led by King Momo, atop a float with his queen and entourage of subjects. Jesters, dancers, fire eaters and revellers join in the jamboree.
 Clint D’Souza, honorary general secretary of PGI, promises that the celebrations here will call to mind memories of home. “There’s a food festival to partake in on Saturday, where one can sample Goan traditionals (sorpotel, sannas, and the likes). Musician Denver Mascarenhas will provide us with some foot-tapping music too.” 
 On Sunday, King Momo and his entourage will declare the carnival party open. Goa Tourism might have selected musician Roque Tome Fernandes to essay King Momo this time, but PGI will have its own king. The parade is one that’s fresh out of Mario Miranda’s caricatures. “It features people you see in everyday Goa — a fisher woman, a paowalla, and a padri (priest), among others,” says Clint, adding that it is also customary for King Momo to choose his wife from the crowd. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 What good is the celebration, if we don’t talk about the fare? City food blogger Hilda Mascarenhas, who specialises in Goan cuisine, says, “Back then, when fewer people attended the parade, one had the luxury of enjoying their sorpotel, vindaloo and chourico (sausage) pulao by the wayside. But with large crowds now, people prefer finger foods.” The Goans love their meat, so there’s a plethora of snacks, like prawn rissoles, mackerel 
 croquetas and mince potato chops, one can relish off roadside stalls. 
 But no Goenkar can do without chourico pao (pao stuffed with pork sausages). “Made with spices, smoked and dried, it can be prepared in various ways, either a dry chilly fry, or a thick gravy, to be enjoyed with Goan pao,” Hilda adds.
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The last day of the festivities, Pancake (or Shrove) Tuesday, sees the community preparing ‘alle belle’, melt-in-the-mouth pancakes with a sweet stuffing of Goan ‘pyramid’ palm jaggery and freshly grated coconut. Hilda says, “These are enjoyed with tea throughout the year, but Pancake Tuesday is when we use all the remaining home supply of eggs, sugar and milk to make these, before the onset of Lent, a period of prayer and abstinence.”
 
 
  
  
 
 
