Life as we know it isn’t smooth sailing, more over when it comes to your workplace existence. The office comes with its own mixed drama — deadlines, unreasonable colleagues, that nasty gossip, frustrations, a monotonous work routine and more. But what happens when you can no longer handle the daily discontent and predictability? At that point, not even those seven hour-plus sleep nights or a healthy diet can counter the resulting loss of enthusiasm. If you have been feeling like your nine-to-five is a drag for a while now, you’re not alone. Occupational or job   is being seen as a top cause of   and   among professionals, today.
 
 
 
  
  
 Dr Amita Nene, head of chest department at a city hospital, warns of how such occupational burnout can have dire consequences on health. “This is a serious situation today. We come across so many, even in a younger age bracket, suffering from it. What happens is, the person becomes so uninterested in any physical activity that he or she gains weight and that’s just the start. Tension causes blood pressure, sleep disorders like insomnia and sleep apnea and if unchecked, it can lead to depression. It also predisposes you to getting   because increased amounts of cortisol — connected to our ‘fight or flight’ response in tough situations – can spike blood sugar levels. Gastric problems arise as you may start eating too much or lose your appetite. You are also at risk of developing heart problems. What is dangerous is that rising stress levels causes people to take up smoking to stay awake and try and cope. This in turn is an appetite suppressant that reduces immunity and predisposes a person to getting other smoking-related diseases. It’s nothing but a vicious cycle,” she says.
 
 
 
  
  
 Blame the rat race on this one for sure. The constant need to peak and stay ahead is one huge cause of this professional fatigue. “Today, it’s no longer 9 to 5, but 8 to 9 day. I have people say they can’t remember when they had dinner with the family together at home. By the time they do reach, they are so fed up that there is no expression of any emotion,” says   Dr  . “The condition can make one feel increasingly doubtful and negative. Escalating feeling of isolation and conflict makes one unable to relate to family and friends or give enough of oneself relationships.” And practically everyone is a victim today. “I get I get so many clients suffering from this that they want urgent appointments even on a Sunday. They say they feel no inclination to do anything, no desire to take up any therapeutic activity, like a walk among nature, even. In such cases, you tend to magnify a lot of things in the mind and go through what is termed as ‘chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS)’. An increasing sedentary pattern makes one prone to joint pains. What is worse is that many a time we hide this and peg the resulting stress down to other reasons. I recently had a client — a young corporate executive who went through unexplained crying spells. She didn’t realise that she was having underlying stress at work. Her brain couldn’t handle it. I had to write to her HR to ask them to slow things down with her and allow her time off,” she reveals, adding, “If you feel like that, take it as a warning sign immediately before it affects your life in entirety.”
 
 
 Chief business officer at a healthcare services company, Dr Sameer Khan, adds that it is imperative to stop burnout before it affects professional efficacy. “Today, we are losing 2% of our capital spent on workforce due to disability and absenteeism arising out of chronic diseases. The need of the hour is a ‘shift’ from just ‘reactive’ care to preventive care. I think this will bring up productivity levels tremendously,” he states. 
  Famous chef   says he has one rule when comes to workplace happiness. In a podcast interview he is quoted as saying, “Absolutely everyone I do business with I like. I always ask myself: Look. There’s a lot of money involved here — but if the phone rings at 10 at night, am I going to go, ‘aw damn’? I’m not going to do that... life is too short.” 
 
 
 
 
 This arises from too much exhaustion.
 
 Feeling disengaged due to job monotony. 
 
 Wanting to achieve, but being too tired to do it.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The two may sound similar, but are in fact very different. Stress arises out of having too much pressure and it takes a toll on you, physically and psychologically. Burnout, on the other hand, is about not doing enough. It leaves you feeling empty and beyond caring, with a diminished interest in daily tasks. While stress can happen every day, burnout is the more serious consequence of it. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
