NAGPUR: The Pune bench of   ( ) has issued notices to state and others seeking response on a petition against sale of unpackaged chilled drinking water in cans and jars.

 A bench of Justice Umesh D Salvi and expert member Ranjan Chatterjee issued notices on Thursday to state government,   (MPCB), ministry of health and family welfare, commissioner of Food and Drug Authority ( ), Pune and Nagpur municipal commissioners, state water sanitation department and regional director of Central Ground Water Authority ( ).
 
 Observing orally that it was a matter of serious concern, the bench directed the respondents to file their replies before July 24, which is the date of next hearing.
 
 Based on TOI’s report of September 6, 2016, a group of three petitioners moved the case through counsels Asim Sarode and Smita Sarode Singalkar. Two petitioners — Vijaysinh Dubbal and Dattatraya Bharne — are from Pune while the third — Santosh Sinha — is from Nagpur.
 
 Extensively quoting TOI's report, the petition stated that the water sold in unpackaged and unsealed chilled jars and cans was not potable and was hazardous to health. Though the unit owners claimed the water was RO and UV treated, no regular monitoring was being done. The units did not have licences from Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) and Food Safety and   (FSSAI) that are mandatory for selling drinking water, it said.
 
 The petitioners have prayed for closure of all such units. They also pleaded for directions to the state government, MPCB, Nagpur Municipal Corporation and Pune Municipal Corporation that they submit a list of all such units to the tribunal.
 
 Though those selling unpackaged drinking water do brisk business, experts had warned that consuming untreated water could cause diseases like typhoid, diarrhoea, hepatitis, cholera, jaundice and many viral infections. 
 
 The ministry of health and family welfare, through a notification issued on November 15, 2016, had made it mandatory to sell packaged drinking water in sealed containers only. Following this, FDA commissioner issued directives to inspect all such units in the state. In the last one week, FDA’s Nagpur division has issued closure notices to over 20 units in Vidarbha.
 
 
