DEHRADUN: Malaysian minister   and his delegation called on chief minister   at   in Delhi on Monday, and both sides agreed to form a   (JWC) to chalk out strategies for infrastructure development, including metro train and better road network, in the Himalayan state.
 
  During the discussion, the Malaysian side offered assistance of a specialised government consultant — Performance Management and Delivery Unit (PEMANDU) — to draw a blueprint for the infrastructure development in the state.
  
  Both sides also discussed issues concerning development of urban areas, metro train and better road network.
  
  The chief minister said, “We need to establish good coordination between the   government, PEMANDU and the Malaysian government. This is a positive initiative, and we are optimistic of a good outcome.”
  
  On the occasion, Rawat invited the Malaysian delegation to Uttarakhand to have a glimpse of serene beauty of the state.
  
  After a detailed conversation, it was decided that Uttarakhand chief secretary, additional chief secretary and department heads would be named as members of the committee, whereas from the Malaysian government, secretary and other senior officers would be members of the committee.
  
  It was also decided that the first JWC meeting would take place in Malaysia. However, the date and itinerary will be chalked out later.
  
  Minister for higher education Dhan Singh Rawat, who was also present in the meeting, told TOI, “The Malaysian delegation will visit Uttarakhand to study possibilities and areas of investments. Malaysia has expertise in highway construction, which will definitely help Uttarakhand.”
  
  Terming the meeting “a positive discussion”, he pointed out that after a few rounds of meetings in Uttarakhand and Malaysia, it would be decided that which projects could be initiated with their assistance.
  
  Army Chief General Bipin Rawat and Uttarakhand chief secretary S Ramaswamy were also present at the meeting.
  
  Later in the day, the chief minister met national security advisor Ajit Doval.
