HYDERABAD: Refuting the argument of dwindling support of Scheduled Castes to the Congress, All India Congress Committee ( ) SC cell chairman   claimed the party has won more SC seats in Punjab and retained its strength in Uttar Pradesh in the recent elections. He pointed out that the vote share of BJP has shown a decline compared to the 2014 Lok Sabha elections while the BSP, which fared miserably in the number of seats, improved its vote share. 

 In an exclusive interview to TOI, the former IAS officer who quit his career to join the Congress said, “The BJP numbers are falling while BSP’s improved and the Congress retained its base. The   suffered a slight loss in overall vote share. This is the problem with the ‘first-past-the-post vote’ system where one can’t gauge public mood correctly,” said Raju.
 
 The ‘first-past-the-post’ voting method is one in which voters are required to indicate on the ballot the candidate of their choice and the candidate who receives more votes than any other candidate wins. “But this does not necessarily represent the total picture of the electorate and the difference between the single winner and many losers,” Raju said.
 
 Claiming the Punjab win as a great success of the Congress party’s pro-SC initiatives, he said, “Of the 34 SC seats in Punjab, Congress won 22. We want to spread to neighbouring Himachal, Haryana and Gujarat too by further strengthening the  .”
 
 Raising concern over the role of money in the UP election, the AICC leader alleged that the BJP had spent more than Rs 5 crore in each assembly constituency. “This is unprecedented in UP. The BJP used all its money power in the election.” He opined that the BSP should have been in the Great Alliance to beat the BJP plans. “If the BSP were in the alliance, the BJP would not have got one seat in UP.” 
 
 He also pointed that division in Jatav votes and branding of SP as Yadav party swung the result towards BJP. “Other BC castes rallied behind BJP in the last minute and Jatavs, who used to vote en bloc to BSP, got divided”, said Raju.
 
 
