BENGALURU: Slightly over a month after Namma Metro’s entire Phase I became operational, Bengalureans are making their commuting preferences clear. While   (east-west corridor) records higher footfall during workdays,   (north-south corridor) finds more takers on Sundays. 

 Statistics from   back this: On July 16 (Sunday), 2.84 lakh commuters rode the  . Of them, 1.5 lakh took trains on Green Line, while only 1.34 lakh travelled on Purple Line. On July 17 (Monday), the entire network saw 3.31 lakh passengers — 1.96 lakh on Purple Line and 1.35 lakh on Green Line.
 
 The surge in Green Line ridership comes despite the entire network seeing a lower footfall on Sundays. The network records a daily ridership of 3.15 lakh on weekdays. 
 
 “Purple Line is packed during weekdays because it sees more officegoers who go to MG Road, Indiranagar and Byappanahalli and further towards Whitefield. Green Line connects temples, shopping enclaves/malls, picnic spots and entertainment hubs, so more commuters use it on Sundays,” reasoned Pradeep Singh Kharola, MD, BMRC.
 
 
 
 
 Green Line Apart from fulfilling the daily commuting needs of professionals, Namma Metro has also made tourism accessible during weekends within the city, say BMRC officials. Green Line is dotted with major tourist attractions like Banashankari Temple, Lalbagh, KR Market, Chickpet, Mantri Square mall, Malleswaram, Orion Mall and Iskcon Temple.
 
 Lalbagh is also witnessing a 25% increase in visitors through its West Gate, which is near the Lalbagh Metro Station. “Before Metro connectivity, 3,000-4,000 people used to enter the park via this gate on weekends. But now, the number has gone up to 5,000. We are hoping to see a record number of visitors during the upcoming Independence Day flower show because people can easily access the Metro,” said M Jagadeesh, deputy director of horticulture in charge of Lalbagh.
 
 Aditya Sikri, CEO, commercial and retail, Mantri Developers, said Mantri Square Sampige Road Metro Station has witnessed a whopping 116% increase in passenger traffic since June 17, when the entire Phase I became functional. 
 
 Sajjanraj Mehta, trade activist and member of Chickpet Traders Association, said, “Getting autorickshaws was a hassle for women who came to shop here earlier. But now we see many more women coming from Yeshwantpur, Peenya and Dasarahalli. Metro has definitely increased footfall in the shopping hub and changed people’s mindset. Business will significantly improve in the coming months.”
 
 Kharola said but for MG Road, Purple Line would see even lesser crowd on weekends. “We are seeing a rise of 3,000- 5,000 Metro users every week. By Dasara, daily ridership will touch the four lakh mark,” he asserted.
 
