JODHPUR: The   (SC) on Monday granted bail to former vice-chancellor B S Rajpurohit who was arrested last week by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) over the alleged teachers’ recruitment scam at Jodhpur’s   (JNV).

 The division bench of Justice   and Justice Rohinton Fali Nariman directed Rajpurohit to furnish bail bonds of Rs 50,000, while hearing a contempt petition moved by him to challenge his arrest by the ACB.
 
 Talking to TOI over the phone, Rajpurohit’s lawyer Aishwarya Bhati said, “We did not seek bail but pleaded for his immediate release since it was illegal detention by the ACB. We will mention it in the court tomorrow (January 17) when the matter will be taken up again.”
 
 At the same time, the apex court directed ACB to file charge-sheet in the matter within a week.
 
 ACB SP Ajay Pal Lamba said that the arrests were the part of investigation and were exercised in pursuance of the opinion of the Additional Advocate General of state government.
 
 Elaborating the apex court’s directions that investigation should be completed but without the permission of the court, no further steps should be taken, Lamba justified the arrests and said that it was followed by the legal opinion.
 
 “With the order to release Rajpurohit, the apex court has directed us to complete the investigation and submit the chargesheet in the court in a week’s time,” said Lamba, while ruling out the possibility of further arrests.
 
 Rajpurohit is one of the six accused, arrested by the ACB, which included the former Congress MLA Jugal Kabra, two former syndicate members D S Khinchi and S S Sharma, one professor D S Chudawat from   and a clerk of the JNV University.
 
 On the other hand, the episode has taken a political hue with the former chief minister Ashok Gehlot openly challenging the state government terming the action to be an action of revenge.
 
 Gehlot has asked the party unit to call one-day city bandh on January 24 and show the state government, the strength of the party standing in full might against the politics of vendetta being fanned by the state government.
 
 Terming the scam as nothing but an offshoot of procedural lacunae, Gehlot said it was unfair to take such an extreme action for just procedural lacunae and if this happened, entire secretariat would be vacant. He claimed that the accused did not extract money in the process.
 
 Rajpurohit community also took to roads on Monday in support of Rajpurohit protesting his arrest and demanding his immediate release. They took out a huge silent procession and submitted a memoranda to the district collector favouring the chief minister.
 
 
