PUNE: The division will strive for   under the leadership of  , who took over as the Pune divisional commissioner last week. 

 Addressing his first formal press conference on Monday, Dalvi emphasised on “zero pendency” of cases for the Pune division and said a circular will be issued to all district collectors to ensure that all pending cases are identified and cleared within five months.
 
 The division comprises Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur districts. “In the first two months, we should identify the pending cases. The next three months will go into their classification and clearance. For this, we would follow the zero-pendency disposal model that was earlier implemented in Pune district,” he said. 
 
 Dalvi had implemented the model as the district collector of Pune and as well as the cooperation commissioner. He now plans to put take forward the zero-pendency model to the collectors of the five districts. “The aim is make the administration citizen-friendly,’’ he said, adding that the clearance of a case should not be delayed beyond a stipulated period. 
 
 At the taluka level, he said, cases should be cleared within a month and it would be two months at the SDO level. Dalvi has set three months as the time frame at the collectorate level four months at the divisional commissionerate level.
 
 Airport, ring road plans
 
 The divisional commissioner said development projects, which included the Pune airport and PMRDA ring roads, national highways road repair and road widening and infrastructure work like those related to the railways, will be taken forward.
 
 A meeting with the chief minister was recently held on the new airport project. Dalvi said the administration was awaiting a government resolution on how to implement the rehabilitation proposals. 
 
 He added that the specific initiative would be taken up for the youth likely to be project affected for the airport at Purandar. “The Maharashtra Airport Development Company Ltd will have to line up job opportunities for the youth so that they can start working in the project,” Dalvi said. 
 
