BENGALURU: Cops are in hot pursuit of the   in Gandhinagar, Kengeri, where a   was found stuffed inside a wardrobe.

 The postmortem conducted on the body on Monday has given ammunition to police suspicion that the body belonged to the tenant’s  . 
 
 According to DCP (West) MN Anucheth, the   report said the murder might have taken place at least three months earlier, and the body belonged to an older woman.
 
 Sanjay, 25, an engineering student, lived in the house with his mother Shashikala and grandmother Shantha Kumari. The family vanished in early February. Sanjay had told the landlord that he was also working with a realty firm.
 
 The landlord, Naveen, opened the doors on Sunday, the day the tenancy agreement was to lapse. He found something suspicious in the freshly painted wardrobe, and signs of plastering work in an attempt to seal the wardrobe. He alerted the police, who broke open the door and found the decomposed body.
 
 “The suspicion that the victim was Sanjay’s grandmother was based on the statement of the landlord, who said he hadn’t seen the older woman in a long time. However, with forensic evidence suggesting the age group of the grandmother, the case against the suspect is getting stronger,” the DCP said.
 
 The autopsy, however, has not revealed the cause of death. The DCP said that more tests will have to be conducted to find this out. Ascertaining the motive of the murder is a tough task as the investigation is still in the early stages, he added.
 
 The teams investigating the case are trying to track the suspect, but are yet to land any actionable evidence. Sanjay had left some addresses and phone numbers with the owner, but they turned out to be false. 
 
 Even the real estate company he was said to be working for turned out to be a non-existential one. 
 
 Talking about the evidence in the house, the officer said the occupants of the house appeared to have left in a hurry. “They have left behind several documents, including Sanjay’s marks cards. We are trying to track them based on these papers,” said the officer.
 
 
