GURGAON: Summer has turned more unbearable for residents, with Gurgaon reeling under an intense   wave — temperatures are four degrees above normal. Add to that erratic   supply and regular power cuts.

 On Tuesday, the maximum   recorded in Gurgaon was 43.6 degrees Celsius, which is 4 degrees above normal. “The heat is too much for this time of the year, the mercury has already touched 44. One can only imagine what would happen in June,” said Ishita Kapoor, a research analyst.
 
 The state government issued an advisory to beat the heat on Monday. But agencies are failing to provide basic services like water and power. Several residential pockets are struggling with long power cuts. The problem is graver in developer areas where power distribution infrastructure is reeling under pressure. Some of the worst affected areas include DLF Phase 3, Ardee City and Suncity.
 
 “We had a six-hour long power cut last night, because one of the transformers caught fire for the third time in a month. The last time, we were without power for 11 hours,” said Abhay Poonia, resident, Suncity. He added that while the colony requires 15MW, the available infrastructure is capable of supporting 4.7MW leading to frequent breakdowns. A similar problem exists in   1, where transformers are unable to take the load, especially in Block C.
 
 “Power cuts are common. The excess load in Block C also causes frequent voltage fluctuations,” said A K Nagpal, RWA president, Sushant Lok 1. “On average, there is a daily power cut for 4-5 hours,” said R K Gupta, RWA president, Ardee City. 
 
 This affects water supply in many areas, as pumps and boosters stop working, which disrupts water supply many a times, complained residents.
 
 In sectors 21, 22 and 23, it has been a month since residents had sufficient water. “We’ve been facing shortage for a month now. If one problem is fixed, another crops up, affecting the supply,” said Bheem Singh Yadav, RWA president, Sector 22B.
 
 Residents of Sushant Lok 1 also braved severe water shortage this season, after their supply was cut over unpaid bills. Suncity residents have not been getting sufficient water for the last two weeks. 
 
 Huda officials said a reason for the water supply woes was the on-going construction work on NH-8, which has disrupted pipelines. “We’ve been getting complaints from many areas. We’re trying to build a mechanism to get feedback and figure out the reason for water supply problems,” said a Huda official.
 
 On the brighter side, according to the met department, the weather is likely to see a correction on Wednesday, with the maximum temperature falling slightly to 40 degrees, and the likelihood of some rain.
 
 
