NEW DELHI: With Manohar 
  , his successor will have to grapple with challenges on several fronts. From bolstering the fledgling indigenous defence production sector and plugging huge operational gaps in military capabilities to carrying out much-needed reforms in the country’s higher defence management and fixing the civil-military divide, he will have to tackle them all.

  was a “reluctant” defence minister when he took over at the first-floor office of the Raksha Mantri in South Block in November 2014, making it quite clear he would have much preferred to stay on as the chief minister in Goa, but the IITian quickly learnt the ins and outs of the gigantic defence ministry with all its complexities and national security imperatives.
 
 He did set in motion several far-reaching policy initiatives, from the 
  to replace the earlier indiscriminate one to reforming the moribund Defence Research and Development Organisation ( ), but most remain to be fully executed on the ground.
 
 Higher defence management reforms, ranging from a new chief of defence staff post to usher in some much-needed synergy among the armed forces to the eventual creation of unified theatre military commands, are still to take concrete shape despite Parrikar talking about the need for them for close to two years now.
 
 More importantly, the armed forces continue to make do with critical operational gaps in areas ranging from submarines and artillery guns to fighter jets and helicopters, with the 2017-18 budget also providing them with hardly any funds for 
  , as was reported by TOI earlier.
 
 Just last week, the parliamentary standing committee on defence slammed the government for this “ad-hoc”, “casual” and “lackadaisical” approach, which could adversely impact the country’s defence preparedness as well as the morale of the armed forces.
 
 The IAF, for instance, is down to just 33 fighter squadrons when at least 42-44 are needed to tackle the “collusive threat” from China and Pakistan. Though the government last year inked the Rs 59,000 crore deal for 36 French Rafale fighters, they alone will not do much to stem the fast-depleting number of fighter squadrons.
 
 India needs to assiduously work towards building a strong domestic defence industrial base, the absence of which means it still imports over 65% of its military requirements. The much-touted “Make in India” policy is yet to gain ground in defence production. A drastic overhaul of the five defence PSUs, four shipyards, 39 ordnance factories, DRDO and its 50 labs is needed, apart from realistic measures to encourage the private sector to enter into defence production in a big way. But despite several promises, the defence ministry is yet to finalize its much-touted “strategic partnership” model for the private sector in defence production.
 
 
