BENGALURU: The high court on Thursday imposed a cost of Rs 1 lakh on  , former joint/additional director of town planning in  , for trying to mislead the court by backdating an order. 

 A division bench headed by Justice Jayant Patel gave two weeks' time to the official to deposit the money with the court. The embargo on Tippanna's foreign travel will be lifted only after he pays the cost.
 
 While Rs 50,000 will go to the complainant,  , Rs 25,000 each will be forwarded to the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority and the Bengaluru Professionals Benevolent Fund at the office of the Advocates' Association of Bangalore.
 
 During the proceedings in the contempt petition, the court noted that a single-judge bench had, on July 21 last year, directed Thippanna to pass appropriate orders on some constructions after giving opportunity to both parties within two months. But Thippanna said the order was already passed on August 20. However, based on the record and going by the language used in the order, the court concluded that it appeared to have been backdated. Even in the original file, there was no endorsement on August 20, 2016 for passing such an order.
 
 In his affidavit, Thippanna claimed that it was a bona fide mistake on his part. He said he feared the court may take a serious view of the matter since he was directed to pass the order within two months.
 
  
 
 
  The high court on Thursday asked the Lokayukta police not to take any action against former CM B S Yeddyurappa in an FIR registered by them in the Mathadahalli denotification case. 
 
  During the hearing, Justice Aravind Kumar asked the agency why it was showing urgency to investigate an FIR registered more than two years ago (May 5, 2015). The counsel for Yeddyurappa claimed that since the petitioner was projected as the chief ministerial candidate in the coming assembly elections, investigation was sought to be continued. Following the direction to the Lokayukta, the judge adjourned the hearing to July 24 on the petition filed by the former CM. 
 
 It is alleged that in 2010, Yeddyurappa, as chief minister, denotified more than 48,000sqft of prime land at Gangenahalli to benefit the mother-in-law of former CM H D Kumaraswamy, who claimed to have a GPA from the original land owners. The land in question had been acquired by   in 1976 for the formation of Mathadahalli Layout. However, in 2007, one Rajashekariaah applied for denotification, contending that he was in possession of the said land.
 
  
 
 
  The Medical Council of India on Thursday claimed that the state government lacked the jurisdiction to decide the issue of citizenship and that it was the Centre's domain. The MCI was referring to a batch of petitions relating to eligibility of OCI (overseas citizen of India) students. The MCI councel said the state government had the power to take decision only in the domicile issue. A division bench headed by Justice H G Ramesh posted the matter for Friday, asking the parties to submit a gist of their contentions. The court also indicated that it would pass orders on the issue. 
 
  
 
 
  The high court permitted Mahendra Jain, additional chief secretary of urban development, to visit California to participate in a training programme organised by the Union government. Jain is an accused in a case being probed by the Special Investigation Team of Karnataka Lokayukta, pertaining to loss caused to the state-owned Mysore Minerals Limited. 
 
