BHUBANESWAR: The strong presence of Maoists has cast a cloud over Panchayat elections across 151 villages located inside the cut-off area of  

   , the secretary of the   (SEC), on Monday said they will take a decision on whether to defer the poll there after reviewing the situation on January 22.
 
 The commission is following the norms since the final list of candidates is due to be published on January 21.
 
 With just a day (Tuesday) left for filing of nomination papers and poll officials not reaching the respective panchayat offices fearing the rebels, the process has automatically got stalled, official sources said.
 
 The cut-off area, a land mass inside Balimela reservoir, which doesn't have road links with the mainland in Odisha, has 10 panchayats under Chitrakonda block. Around 21,000 people stay in these villages, considered a Maoist hotbed. In a joint operation, the Odisha and Andhra Pradesh police had killed 26 ultras in October last year in the same area.
 
 One has to cover a distance of 60 km in waterway from Chitrakonda in the mainland to Jantri, the last ferry point inside the Balimela reservoir.
 
 While the poll officials had gone to only one panchayat Badapadar (nearest to the landmass) and returned fearing for their life, no official dared to visit Panasput, Jantri, Andrapali, Gajalmundi, Jodaamba, Dhuliput, Ralegada, Papermatla and Barpada so far.
 
 The Andhra-Odisha   secretary Jagabandhu has called for boycott of the rural poll citing lack of development in the areas.
 
 The Left-wing extremists had kidnapped five poll officials on January 13 and let them off after a warning in a praja (kangaroo) court not to perform poll duty. The administration is on the back foot ever since.
 
  Officials said given the present scenario its not safe to sent poll staff to the cut-off area, which is surrounded by Balimela reservoir from three sides and shares boundary with Andhra Pradesh, to conduct the election process. 
 
 "We have informed the state election commission about the developments in the cut-off area and necessary action will be taken based on the commissions direction," said collector (Malkangiri) K Sudarshan Chakravarthy. He, however, added barring the cut-off area the poll process passed peacefully in other parts of the district and no untoward incident was reported. 
 
 It may be noted that of the 1509 booths, as many as 741 and 453 booths have been identified as hyper-sensitive and sensitive in the district.
 
