JAIPUR: Setting an example for residents, city mayor   deposited the urban development (UD) tax, due on his residential property in 10 (B) scheme near Gopalpura bypass, on Wednesday. 

 The mayor deposited Rs 96, 628 through cheque at   (JMC) headquarters. According to JMC sources, the   was not calculated correctly, which disgruntled the mayor. However, the amount was paid and later Lahoti asked to refund the difference amount. 
 
 “The mayor’s family owns two plots of size 325 square yard each. On these plots, a basement, ground floor and first floor are constructed. The assessment of tax is done after including second floor, which does not exist. Also, the tax is calculated on 1900 square feet area on commercial rates. However, the mayor claimed the constructed area is far less.” said a JMC source. 
 
 Lahoti claimed that the size of his plot is more than 300 square yard and no notice was received by JMC administration. This was done to educate and aware residents to deposit tax voluntarily. 
 
 It was decided in recent   (GBM) to disconnect sewerage connection of the people who have defaulted on payment of UD tax after seven-day from issuing notice. 
 
 JMC will also serve notices to 1.26 lakh defaulters of UD tax, as an ultimatum, after which it will block the sewerage lines of property owners. To start with, it has prepared a list of 695 defaulters who owe more than Rs five lakh of dues.
 
 The list comprise Central and state government offices, properties of erstwhile royal family of Jaipur, media houses, marriage homes, hotels and influential private owners. As per the figures released by JMC, 1.26 lakh people have not paid their UD taxes which amounts to Rs 700 crore. However, it is just 695 people who owe Rs 350 crore, almost half of the total amount. 
 
 Among 695, major defaulters include, state government own departments like Rajasthan Avasan Mandal, RUIDP, Rajasthan Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited, bus stand. There are temples, NGOs, media organizations and jewellers along with properties of the erstwhile royal family. Hotels, resorts and marriage homes, some owned by the politicians too are among the biggest defaulters. 
 
