PUNE: Mind your steps and steer the wheels with caution as over 195km of roads in the city will be dug up in the next 20 days. 

 Various private cellphone companies and government agencies will lay cables and pipelines within April 30 — the deadline to complete their respective work.
 
  (PMC) officials said Reliance, L&T, Maharashtra Natural Gas Limited (MNGL) and Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) have sought permission for laying cables and pipelines.
 
 “A couple of them are using trenchless technology to reduce damage to the roads. The rest have opted for the regular road digging process,” an official in the civic body’s road department.
 
 The MNGL supplies piped gas to around 40,000 homes in Pune and operates over 40 CNG refilling stations. It has plans to expand the service to about 60,000 more houses, for which it has to lay the pipelines. 
 
 L&T, on the other hand, has plans to build a Wi-Fi network and underground cables for that. The civic body is contemplating to allow digging without levying any charges, as the work is part of the Smart Cities project.
 
 “The project will finally cater to the city’s infrastructure. It will also benefit the civic body and meet its future requirements. The Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited’s board has sought a permission for the charge waiver,” PMC commissioner   said. The proposal will be sent to the standing committee for approval.
 
 The entire road digging work, in accordance with the civic administration’s calendar, has to be completed by April 30. The repair of the roads has to be wrapped up by the end of May.
 
 “The repair work should be over before monsoon arrives. Only emergency work will be allowed after the deadline,” said Rajendra Raut, head of the civic body’s road department.
 
 Citizens’ groups have, in the meantime, demanded that the trenching policy be implemented strictly as it will reduce damage to roads. “The policy has been drafted. Only those who are willing to abide by it should be allowed to work in the city. If there are any loopholes in the policy, people responsible for leaving these escape routes should be punished,” said Vivek Velankar, founder of  .
 
 The tentative amounts to be spent on digging and repairing the roads are around Rs 10 crore and Rs 95 crore, respectively. The expenditures to be shared between the civic body, government agencies and the private players are yet to be decided.
 
