I have been married from last 3 years and was enjoying a fine relationship with my wife with occasional ups and down until last month, when I had to shift to another location because of my transfer. My wife chose to stay with my parents. One day, by default, I got access to her email id and found out that she is indulging in online chats with a boy and chats approximately the entire day, whenever the duo get free. Initially, I didn't bother about it but then I observed that these chats go on till midnight and casual chats have turned into flirting. I was alarmed when they both exchanged their contact numbers a few days back. I know things are progressing, just want to know what should I do now. Even if I talk to her, I may not trust her my entire life and then, will have to manage with broken trust and remain doubtful throughout life.
 
  
 Dear reader, given that you had a good relationship for the initial years of marriage, chances are that your relationship is threatened by the demands of the long-distance - the distance makes one feel sad, lonely and disconnected from the partner. Your wife may be filling the emotional vacuum caused by the geographical distance currently. I would reflect on what was the reason she chose to stay back and not come with you. Were there early signs of stress in your relationship that you may have missed? If the decision to stay apart was due to some practical constraints and was mutually decided, define a timeline for the time apart to make coping easier.
  
  Use technological advancements to bridge the physical gap and sustain the emotional connect to feel loved, involved and attended to mutually. It will also stimulate sexual tension– which is undoubtedly most important between couples, and will keep the excitement of periodic meetings strong. Sex is not just a biological need; it is an emotional one as well.
  
  When the relationship is strengthened – decide if you feel the need to discuss the episode about her chats with the boy in a non-threatening manner. Trust can be rebuilt and the relationship can be better than ever. However, it takes work and doesn’t come quickly. This healing journey will require patience, courage, inner strength and time from both your wife and you to regain balance. Keep holding onto the bigger vision that you’ll both get through this, no matter how shaky it seems at the moment. Before you know it, your relationship will grow closer, more loving, solid and strong.
  
  
 
  
  Want expert advice for your relationship? Send us an email at expertadvice.toi@gmail.com
  
  
