It is an incident straight out of a 1980s action film.   ordered police to escort a man and his two sons from   to attend the wedding of the daughter on Tuesday. They were ordered to be taken back to prison by 6 pm.

 The three are undergoing trial in a murder case. While the Sessions Court refused to grant them bail for attending the wedding, the High Court gave them permission to attend the wedding under police escort.
 
 Manohar Malade (49), his two sons Amogond (23) and Siddeshwar (21), are charged for murder and criminal intimidation by the Tikota Police. The case is pending before an  , Vijayapura.
 
 The three sought bail to attend the wedding of Manohar’s daughter on Tuesday.
 
 The Sessions Court rejected their plea and they appealed to the High Court. The wedding invitation card was attached with their memo.
 
 The High Court noted that the bail plea was been rejected by the Sessions Court on merits. “Since there was no change in circumstance since then, there was no need to reconsider the matter. Therefore, they are not entitled for bail. However, they can be permitted to attend the marriage under proper police escort,” the HC said.
 
 The HC judgement by Justice KS Mudagal on May 18 says, “The   and the Superintendent of the Central Prison, Vijayapura and the Sessions Court, Vijayapura, in co-ordination with each other, shall make arrangement for the attendance of the petitioners to the wedding of Rajashri — daughter of petitioner No.1 at Kudala Sri Sangameshwara Temple, Nevargi of Indi Taluk, Vijayapura District under proper police escort. They shall be taken from the custody from the morning of 23.05.2017 for the said purpose and they shall be dropped back in the Central Prison, Vijayapura by 6.00 pm on the same day.”
 
 The case against Manohar and his sons were registered following a complaint by Lalita, the wife of Mahadev Malade. It was alleged that there was a dispute over a property between the two families.
 
 There is a civil case pending about the dispute in court. Allegedly on September 19, 2015, Manohar and his sons accosted Mahadev and assaulted him.
 
 When Mahadev tried to escape he was chased and finally murdered. Mahadev’s brother-in-law tried to intervene but was threatened.
 
 
