BENGALURU: It's that time of the year when   has her hands full. She brings out her diverse collection of  , meticulously arranges them on platforms and invites friends and relatives to witness the vibrant spectacle. Innovation is what makes her Gombe Habba ( ) unique every Dasara.

 Step into her Jayanagar home and a Mount Kailash replica -this year's theme -is hard to miss. While her son   has given final touches to the model made of cotton rolls, Anitha has placed the Ashta Lakshmi and Nava Durga figurines on the steps.
 
 Many Kannada households dish out a new theme every year. The dolls are exhibited in an eye-catching display for nine days from Mahalaya Amavasya to Vijayadashami.Gombe Habba is not only about inviting relatives home to celebrate but also a tradition that has passed on from previous generations, says Yoganarasimha MS, a banking professional from Nanjappa Layout.As Yoganarasimha and his wife Nivedita are busy arranging the dolls, their two-year-old daughter Ninada joyfully trots around.
 
 
 
 “It's all about keeping our tradition alive and getting together with family and friends,“ says Asha Ashok, a resident of Kalyan Nagar and a member of the Telugu community.
 
 Asha has started doing up the house and creating a miniature park like every year. “I made a replica of Tirupati hills last year. This time, the focus is on Ambari Aane of Mysuru Dasara. I am expecting around 200 guests through the nineday festival. I love the sheer joy of arranging the dolls and conceptualizing Dasara festivities,“ she says. At Asha's home, Gombe Habba is more than a 100-year-old tradition. “ A Rajarajeshwari doll, which belonged to my husband Ashok's grandmother and is over 120 years old, still adorns our collection,“ she adds.
 
 On Ayudha Puja, equipment are washed and worshipped. On Saraswati Puja, musicians seek blessings for their instruments, while others worship books. Sakre pongal, holige and masala idlis are savoured on Vijayadashami, the concluding day .
 
 Copies of epics like the Ramayana and Mahabharata are placed in doll displays in many Telugu homes. “Offering Baagina to young girls on Ashtami (eighth day) is a custom,“ says Padma Raghavendra, a Malleswaram resident, adding, “I gift a set of dolls to newly married couples in my family.“
 
 
 
 
 On Mahalaya Amavasya, the dolls are placed on a stepped platform. Most South Indian families ensure the display resembles Goddess Durga's court. Legend has it that the goddess waged war against the demon Mahishasura and sought energy from all living beings on earth to help her win. Mahishasura was so powerful that every drop of blood that fell on earth would give birth to another one. All living beings transferred their energy to Durga and became statues. Empowered, Durga triumphed over Mahishasura on Navami. On Dashami, the 10th day, the dolls are removed after performing pooja
 
 
 
 Nine Kannada films will be screened as part of Chitta Chittara Chalana Chitrotsava at Kappana Angala in JP Nagar I Phase from September 21 to 29 on account of Navratri. The films are: Nanu Avanalla Avalu by B S Lingadevaru (September 21), Aake by K M Chaithanya (September 22), Puttakkana Highway by B Suresh (September 23), Matadana by T N Seetharam (September 24), Munnudi by P Sheshadri (September 25), Mysura Mallige by T S Nagabharana (September 26), Haseena by Girish Kasaravalli (September 27), Rama Ram Re by Satyaprakash (September 28) and Kanooru Subbamma Heggadathi by Girish Karnad (September 29).
 
 
 IN REVERENCE Devotees throng Kashi Vishveshwara Swamy Temple to pay homage to their ancestors on the occasion of Mahalaya Amavasya, which marks the first day o Navratri, on Tuesday.Poojas are performed and offerings made.
 
