KOLKATA: Meet a Dutch who doesn’t believe in going Dutch.   unabashedly seeks help from strangers to provide him with food, a bed to sleep in or electricity that powers his car. And he has come a long way doing just that. From   to Kolkata, the 30-year-old has travelled 45,000km across 24 countries without spending a dime. He has around 20,000km more to go before he reaches Sydney in Australia and completes his graduation project — PlugMeIn —that began on March 15 last year.

 “I wanted to explore the world, experience new cultures and meet different people. In 2009, I travelled as a backpacker to Australia and enjoyed the experience. Back home, I was hungry for more. But I didn’t want to do the same thing again. Hence, this road trip to Australia in an electric car that combines the adventure of travel with the message of sustainability,” recounted Wakker, an Event Management graduate from Utrecht University.
 
 Like he had done in 2009, Wakker started the journey without any money. The car — an electric Volkswagen Golf — was sponsored by Dutch laundry brand Bundles. What Wakker has done since is log into Facebook when someone’s plugged him in, offering food, a night stay and a power socket to charge his car. Since he depends on hospitable strangers, it is they who end up defining his route. Hence, after he started from Holland, he went all the way to North Cape, the northernmost tip of Norway and in the virtually opposite direction from his ultimate destination, because Norwegians were glad to host him. 
 
 The situation, however, changed once he drove into eastern Europe. “That was the time I had to travel 1,200km witout anyone offering anything. I had to charge the car on the sly and spent three days without food. But so long I was travelling, I was happy,” he said.
 
 Wakker’s car with 37kWH power can travel 200km in a single charge before it needs to be plugged in for 12 hours. 
 
 He had initially planned to drive into India through Pakistan. But with the latter denying him visa, Wakker drove back to Dubai and got the car shipped to Mumbai from Oman. In Dubai, he worked for two months to earn around 5,000 euro that he requires to travel through Myanmar and Thailand with a government guide.
 
 Wakker arrived in Kolkata on Tuesday and plans to leave on Thursday. Putting his car on charge in a house at Hindustan Park, he roamed the streets to soak in the atmoshphere and bumped into a Mahindra E2O+, India’s own electric car. “It’s great to see electric cars here. It just goes to show people are embracing the future of mobility. I am sure there will be more Mahindra electric cars in India when I visit next,” he said.
 
 After the trip is over, Wakker isn’t sure if he will take up one of the several job offers that he received during the journey or do something on his own. He has such fun during the trip that he isn’t even looking forward to completing it.
 
