AHMEDABAD: The city has over 30 public and private museums – with collections ranging from world-class vintage and classic cars to different kinds of locks, sculptures dating back to 7th centuries; works of modern art and centuries of textile to unique kites.

 Experts said that while there is great variation in subject and style among city museums, the need of the hour is to make the places more relevant. A few museums no longer have anything new to offer and are already fighting obscurity, whereas new and private museums are working to keep the torch of inquisitiveness and knowledge burning bright.
 
 On the occasion of International  , four curators talk about the most significant collection or artefact in the museums under them, and about the future of museums as places of collective memories.
 
  
  BJ Institute of Learning and Research | Chamar Nayika 
 
 Professor Ramji Savaliya, director of the institute, said that the sandstone idol of a chamar nayika (maiden holding a fly-driver) dating back to late 7th century is closely tied to the city’s history. “The idol was found during excavation in Paldi area and it belongs to pre-Solanki era,” said Savaliya, adding, “The idol is a great example of the prowess of the artisans in city and it is possible that it might have been part of a temple-like complex.”
 
 “It is one of the oldest surviving idols excavated from the city area and would surely have influenced the style later developed in central Gujarat,” he said.
 
  LD Museum and NC Mehta Gallery | Ladol sculptures
 
 Professor Ratan Parimoo, director of the museum, said that the marble sculptures retrieved from Ladol, a village near Vijapur in Mehsana district, are the closest to those found at the Mount Abu derasar and show an intimate cultural relationship between the hill station and Gujarat. The idols of Tirthankaras date back to 1256-1280 AD. “There are both seated and standing idols at the museum that represents the same style as Abu,” said Parimoo. “It is believed that the derasar at Ladol might have been renovated at the same time (12-13th century) as Delwada temple by Vastupala. A few of the idols are also housed at   in Mumbai,” he said.
 
  
  City Museum | Textile mill labels
 
 At ‘Karnavati: Atit ni Jhankhi,’ better known as city museum, there is much to savour ranging from sketches by M F Hussain inspired by the city to the original land deeds of 19th century and the progress of the city over decades. However, what catches the visitors’ eye most is a section on textile mills – which had given the city the sobriquet ‘Manchester of the East.’ In this section, the visitors can see the gradual rise and fall of the mills with a timeline, original labels and advertisements of various major brands and a model of the weaving machine.
 
  
  KL Museum | Hand-painted postcards
 
 The youngest museum of the city, inaugurated in January this year, hosts a collection of hand-painted postcards representing the era from 1913 to 1940. The museum officials said that the period encompasses a number of luminaries of Bengal Art School. There was a tradition where budding artists used to send postcards to their teachers from across India, capturing daily lives, people of different regions and landscapes. The collection is a unique relic of the period providing a peek into the rigorous training process artists went through. Visitors would stumble upon many familiar names in the bunch.
 
 
