BAREILLY:   Ali, one of the prominent kite and manjha (kite-string) sellers in city, is troubled. The first week of July is almost over and he is yet to receive a single order from Delhi or Haryana-based customers who used to approach him every year from this time onwards, for their requirements for Independence Day.
 
  Inam says every year he supplies over five lakh kites to Delhi and Haryana markets alone before August 15. This time, however, he has no idea how to calculate GST, and all his labourers are illiterate. “My clients are asking about my   registration number,” said Inam, himself poorly educated. Most kite makers are in the same position, and production of kites has taken a hit.
  
  In several parts of the country, including in Delhi and Haryana, kite flying is an important part of Independence Day celebrations.
  
  “I have absolutely no idea about how to calculate GST. Now, kite flying is not restricted to one or two occasions or festivals. Enthusiasts fly them round the year, whether it is Makar Sankranti, Basant Panchami, Raksha Bandhan, New Year’s Day, Republic Day, Independence Day, Eid, even Sundays or any other day. Gujarat and   are the biggest markets to our products,” said Nazim Ali, another kite trader in the famous Sarai Khan Market, which attracts kite fliers from other states also.
  
  Kite   said that they wished to come under the ambit of GST but were puzzled over how to calculate and file it.
  
  Inam said, “Since we didn’t get any order for the coming season of Independence Day, we are yet to ask our labourers to make kites and manjha. Though our customers in Delhi and other states have asked us to get registered under GST, they didn’t give any hint about when and what number of orders they would place this time. All my kite makers are daily wage earners. If things do not change in the next couple of days, they will certainly switch to another line of work to meet their daily needs. And if it happens, it would hit our trade for sure.”
  
  “We don’t oppose GST but we have some anxiety what we want the government should pay heed to. Till now, we pay around Rs 10,000 annually as tax to the government and one-time fee of Rs 15,000 to our charted accountant. We know that being registered under GST, we will have to pay tax manifold more than what we pay so far, but we can make up for day by raising prices. But we have two major concerns. First, after registration in GST, the tax department will be able to calculate our turnover following that officials will ask to produce previous accounts. And second, CAs will charge huge fees every month, making a dent in our profit,” a kite trader said on condition of anonymity.
