MUMBAI: Following the   on compensation to the BMC after the introduction of the   (GST) and abolition of octroi,   Sudhir Mungantiwar met Sena president Uddhav Thackeray on Monday morning and assured him that the state would compensate the Sena-ruled Mumbai civic body.

 Mungantiwar rushed to   and gave Uddhav a presentation on the GST. He assured the Sena boss that it will be the state's responsibility to pay compensation to the BMC. "We will make an amendment in the State   at the special three-day session (of the state legislature) scheduled to be held from May 20," he said.
 
 The minister said a draft of the SGST bill will be sent to Uddhav so he can study it. "If they have any doubts, they will be cleared on Tuesday morning. Thackeray was apprehensive about BMC having to depend on the Centre and state for compensation," said Mungantiwar. He added the state will compensate not just the BMC for loss in octroi revenue but also other municipal corporations in the state which will also face loss of revenue due to abolition of the Local Body Tax (LBT).
 
 This year, BMC's estimated octroi revenue was Rs 7,200 crore. Considering the average 4% rise in revenue over the last decade, the state has assured the BMC that it will compensate it at the doubled rate of 8% rise every year. The government will release funds to all civic corporations one month in advance. This would place a burden of Rs 14,300 crore on the state, of which Rs 7,000 crore would go to BMC alone.
 
 Leader of opposition Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil took strong objection to Mungantiwar's   to Uddhav."If Uddhav Thackeray is taking a final decision on GST, there was no need for a special session of the legislature to consider the GST Act. CM Devendra Fadnavis has set a wrong precedent by sending cabinet members to Matoshree. Fadnavis is encouraging extra-constitutional authorities," Vikhe Patil said. "Mungantiwar should have called a meeting at state guesthouse Sahyadri and invited Uddhav there," a bureaucrat said.
 
