HYDERABAD: Hosts   were in cruise mode as they made short work of debutants Tamil Thalaivas to register an impressive 32-27 win in the inaugural match of the Vivo Pro Kabaddi Season-5 at the Gachibowli Indoor Stadium here on Friday. However, the fireworks were reserved for the second match as   turned the tables on former champions   to score a superb 33-21 win.

 In the inaugural tie, skipper Rahul Chaudhari with his exceptional raiding skills led his team from the front with a perfect-10. He was ably assisted by the experienced Nilesh Salunke, who bailed out his team at crucial moments and landed himself seven points. However, the surprise pack of the day was the young defender Vishal Bhardwaj, who proved himself with seven tackle points.
 
 For Thalaivas, it was too much to ask from the skipper  , whose valiant attempt went in vain. Ajay, who played an instrumental role in India's World Cup triumph against Iran last year, took up the responsibility and made a total of 17 raids. But the Titans' defence was rock solid. Seasoned campaigners Rakesh Kumar and Rohit Rana and the young Bhardwaj, forged an excellent combination to keep Thakur at bay.
 
 The former India coach   was all praise for Titans' skipper Chaudhary. "Rahul made all the difference today," the Thalaivas' coach conceded later. "It's a good experience for our young side. We'll learn from our mistakes and try to put up a better display in the next match," he said. "Our defenders got a bit excited as this was their first match. It's just a start for them. I hope they will settle down soon," he said.
 
 "Our strategy worked perfectly today. Our main aim was to control Ajay Thakur. Our defence was successful in that," said Chaudhari later. He also thanked Rakesh Kumar for his excellent tackling skills.
 
 "It was not an easy match as the scoreline indicated. We played very well today. It's a good warm-up before the big match tomorrow," he said. Titans will take on two-time defending champions Patna Pirates on Saturday.
 
 In the second match, it was the Paltan defence that put up a splendid show. "We know U Mumba are an all out attacking side. And we 8.00pm prepared our   strategy accordingly," said Puneri coach B C Ramesh.
 
 For Paltan, Sandeep Narwal stood out with his tackles as he top-scored for his team with six points, followed by   with five points.
 
 "Nothing worked for us today. We need to sit down and rethink our strategy," said India skipper and U Mumba captain Anup Kumar, who top-scored for his team with eight points but all that proved to be in vain.
 
