
These words in the note that Rohit Vemula, the Dalit student at   (HCU), penned before he bid adieu to the world a year ago had brought tears to many eyes and sparked protests in many places. A year later, HCU has just seen The Alliance for Social Justice (ASJ), a coalition led by Ambedkar Students Association (ASA) and Students Federation of India (SFI) sweeping the students’ union election. ASJ swept all the central panel posts including President, Vice President, General Secretary, Joint Secretary, Sports Secretary and Cultural Secretary.
 
  P, a PhD scholar in regional studies from Angamaly, who got elected as the president, shares his views on campus politics and how it will impact the future of the country.
 
 “Like most of the youth in India, I too used to believe that being neutral is right. During my graduation in Sree Sankara College, Kalady, I was associated with SFI just because all my friends were active members. After reading Shajahan Madampat’s book JNUvile chuvar chitrangal, I got interested in ASA and got to work with this outfit on many occasions after my Masters. I found Ambedkarism as a new way of emancipation and joined HCU for my MPhil and also to be a part of ASA,” says Sreerag, who knew Rohit Vemula well. 
 
 “In 2015, when ASA was forming its new committee, Rohit had proposed my name for the General Secretary’s post but I did not take it up. But we used to work together and Rohith’s suicide was a shock and it actually made everyone work more actively for the organisation.” 
 
 According to him, the turbulent days following the death of Rohith Vemula are still fresh in the minds of the students of HCU. “Our victory is for Rohith. It actually brought together all the progressive minds who felt that things aren’t headed in the right direction. The social boycott and consequent institutional murder of Rohith Vemula brought all organisations except ABVP to join hands to fight for Rohith’s justice. The formation of a grand alliance took inspiration from the struggle. Also it can be a model for upcoming political formations,” he says.
 
 Sreerag believes that the poll result holds out a lesson for the rest of the country. “Here we saw the microcosm of India coming together breaking the boundaries of caste, creed and colour which I believe the national politics should consider as a model. We actually defeated the arguments that the youth are taking a step back from politics. I think the students are not stepping back from serious politics, rather they are suggesting a new politics for the entire nation.”
 
 Commenting on the trend in Kerala, Sreerag says that the campuses mostly have taken an apolitical stance. “When we look at the larger picture, there is a tendency to take a neutral stand and reject all kinds of politics. Some of them even say, ‘I am not interested in politics’ as a style statement but I would say that when you take such a stand you are actually indirectly supporting the growing fascism around us, the right-wing propaganda. There is need for intervention, even in the approach of the parents and teachers towards politics. Earlier, strong campus politics had moulded many visionaries in our state. It should continue to happen,” he says.
 
 Sreerag is very optimistic that the youth will play a key role in determining the future of the country. “I am sure that the future of politics will be decided by the youth in the country,” he sums up.
 
 
