BENGALURU: This Bengalurean is India’s only rider to have ridden to all four motorable corners of the country in record time, but when he returned home an achiever, he was taunted and told to fix telephones.

 R Chiranthana, a grade C state government employee at Bangalore University, has travelled solo on a motorcycle to all four motorable tips of India --- the Narayan Sarovar (Gujarat) in the east, Leh (Jammu & Kashmir) in the west, Tezu (Arunachal Pradesh) in the north and Kanyakumari (Tamil Nadu) in the south --- in 32 days. The 43-year-old telephone operator at BU’s Jnanabharathi campus covered a total of 14,104 km, passing through 20 states and four Union territories.
 
 A Jnanabharathi resident, Chiranthana completed the ride on July 20, 2016 and on Friday, he received accolades from the World Records India Foundation. Joined as a peon in BU in 1997, the enthusiastic biker had already entered the Limca Book of Records and the   for his daring expedition on his Yamaha FZ-S 150cc machine.
 
 Claimed to be waiting for the recognition of the World Records University of UK, Chiranthana is a proud man but a little pain casts shadow over his joy. “I have received three national honours and umpteen appreciations from across the country for the bike journey I started from Bengaluru city and ended here. But till this day I’m yet to hear a compliment from any authority in Bengaluru including those in the university, the place I have been working for two decades,” lamented the biker, who saved around Rs 40,000 for his ‘dream ride.’
 
 The then vice-chancellor and the Registrar had endorsed the efforts of this peon-turned-telephone operator following the latter’s plea for an authority authentication to apply for the records books. Last year, Chiranthana took a month’s leave and set off on the road trip starting from the university’s Jnanabharathi campus early on June 18 with no customary flagging off. He hit Goa, entered Maharashtra and rode into Gujarat to halt at Narayan Sarovar, the western most tip of India. Chiranthana rode on to Rajasthan, Haryana, Punjab, Jammu to brake at Leh. He throttled to Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and entered Bengal. 
 
 “I will never forget the rainy ride through Assam and I managed to reach Tezu in Arunachal Pradesh. After a brief halt, I returned via Siliguri, Kolkata and rode down through Bhubaneswar, Vijayawada to reach Chennai and ended at Kanyakumari, the southernmost tip of India,” recalled the father of two young girls. His family had no clue that he was on a record-attempt road trip but heard stories with awe only upon his return to Bengaluru from Kanyakumari.
 
 While the family reeled in astonishment on his return, the biker claimed that his efforts are hardly appreciated at his workplace. “I expected some appreciation the day I returned from the ride. But what I heard was rebuke for my trip and orders to immediately repair the telephone at the VC’s office,” he added. 
 
 BU Registrar K N Ninge Gowda expressed delight over his subordinate Chiranthana’s feat. “We have always encouraged our staff in all ways possible. We will felicitate Chiranthana when the time comes,” he told TOI.
 
 
