NEW DELHI: While the plan to make Connaught Place a vehicle-free zone was postponed (a three-month trial run was to begin from February 1), the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) is in discussions with stakeholders to pedestrianize   soon. In November, Urban Development Minister   asked the civic body to make major markets within its jurisdiction vehicle-free while reviewing the NDMC’s Smart City project. The decision to pedestrianize CP for a trial period of three months was strongly objected to by the New Delhi Traders Association (NDTA), who even protested against it.

 Now, discussions are underway to make Khan Market vehicle-free. Sources in NDMC say that chances are that both markets will be made car-free (first, for a trial period of a few months) around the same time. "After the meeting with Venkaiah Naidu, there are plans to make both CP and Khan Market car-free as an experiment for a few months. We are having discussions with all the stakeholders in this regard," says an official from the NDMC.
 
 "Making Khan Market a vehicle-free zone will require meticulous planning as parking has been an issue in the area," says the Khan Market Traders Association.  , president of the Khan Market Traders Association, says, "We haven’t got any final word or decision from NDMC on pedestrianization of Khan Market, but it came up as a suggestion a few days ago from  . Then, we had said that this is a step that should be taken after proper planning – after recognizing places that can be a designated parking area for visitors to Khan Market. Unlike CP, which has such space to be used only as parking space, Khan Market doesn’t have that space. Khan Market is an area that was created for the residents around, and may need a special plan to not cause inconvenience to anyone. We are also mindful of our business, we will have a discussion with NDMC and will make it clear that our business should not suffer. The profile of visitors who come to Khan Market is different from CP. More than 50% of the people who come for shopping here are above 50 or 60 years of age and may not be able to walk long distances from the parking space, if the market is made car-free."
 
