Cleared/Anil (396)

 Coimbatore: A 32-year-old man was on Tuesday sentenced to 10 years rigorous imprisonment (RI) for repeatedly raping his eight year-old daughter, while his wife was awarded 10 years and six months RI for not filing complaint against her husband after the child informed her about the sexual harassment.
 
 The convicted couple was identified as P Raja Sethupathi, and R Indira, 30, of Samathuvapuram at Neruperichal in Tirupur. The duo, who used to make a living out of alms, has two sons and a daughter.
 
 Raja Sethupathi was a drunkard and he had sold the house at Samathuvapuram a few years ago. Since then, they had been staying in a roadside tent at Neruperichal. He used his sons for begging. At the time of the incident, the girl was a class III student of a government school in the area.
 
 At night, police said, Raja Sethupathi used to rape his daughter repeatedly after gagging her and tying both her hands. The girl narrated everything to her mother but Indira not only did not take any action but also supported her husband’s activities. Unable to bear the sexual torture, the girl told the same to her school headmaster, who informed child line on January 26, 2015.
 
 Child line members rescued the girl and lodged a complaint with the Tirupur North all-woman police station, who registered a case and arrested the couple. Both of them were subsequently lodged at Coimbatore Central Prison and the children were sent to a shelter home in Tirupur.
 
 The case trial was held at the Tirupur district mahila court. Special public prosecutor V Parimala pleaded the court to award maximum punishment to both Raja Sethupathi and Indira.
 
 Judge (incharge) A Muhamed Jiyaputheen, who heard the case, pronounced the verdict on Tuesday. He sentenced Raja Sethupathi to 10 years rigorous imprisonment for under Section 5 (l) (m) (n) and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and also imposed on him a fine of Rs1,000.
 
 The judge awarded Indira 10 years RI, besides a fine of Rs1,000, under Section 16 read with 17 of POCSO Act and another six months RI and a fine of Rs500 under Section 19 read with 21 of POCSO Act.
 
 Raja has already spent 615 days in jail and Indira 731 days. The couple had earlier approached the court for conditional bail, but it was rejected.
 
 
