PANAJI: As the ‘Mission Rabies Goa’ project nears completion in the state, the team is open to continuing with their efforts even beyond the August 2018 deadline. The large scale   conducted by the mission has managed to successfully vaccinate 54,492 dogs in the state in the last financial year. 

 The mission has been laboriously working to make Goa rabies-free by 2018 through vaccination, known to be an effective method to tackle rabies.
 
 “We’re nearing our deadline with steady progress. The number of dog bite cases and human rabies cases have significantly come down ever since this project has been in action. We may continue with our efforts even after the deadline if need be,” said director India Education, Mission Rabies Dr Murugan Appupillai.
 
 Conducted in association with the Goa government and NGOs in the state, the team started its mission in 2014. With the help of veterinarians and trained volunteers, who were spread out across the state, the volunteers, on an average vaccinate over 100 dogs a day.
 
 Reports of Mission Rabies for the financial year 2016-17, reveal that of the total number of dogs vaccinated by them, 55% were stray and 45% were owned. A total of 71 dogs were tested positive for rabies.
 
 The dogs are located with the help of EpiCollect, a smartphone app that gives the user updates about every individual dog’s whereabouts, gender and health. 
 
  from Chandor said, "We have been getting a vaccination shot for our dog from the Mission Rabies programme every year. It's free of cost and the volunteers come home, which makes it convenient for us. An initiative like this is helpful in curbing rabies."
 
 A report of total dogs vaccinated, percentage coverage achieved in their respective areas, contact details and GPS locations of over 13,000 pet owners is submitted on a monthly basis to the directorate of animal husbandry and veterinary services (DAHVS), municipalities and panchayats in Goa.
 
 “The project is going on well. As per the reports, there is a drastic reduction in dog-mediated human rabies cases since 2014,” said assistant director, DAHVS, Santosh Desai.
 
 Notably, 17 human rabies cases were reported in 2014, which went down to five in 2015, and further down to one in 2016 and none in 2017.
 
