AURANGABAD: Vice-chancellor of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University ( ) B A Chopade met police commissioner   on Monday and assured full cooperation in the ongoing investigation in the engineering paper  .

 Chopade also assured to share the internal investigation report with the police. The university has formed a three-member panel to probe the scam in which students were caught writing answers after the examination at the residence of a local corporator. 
 
 After meeting Yadav, Chopade said, “I had contacted the police commissioner on Saturday to discuss the ongoing case and he had given me today’s appointment. We have assured our full cooperation to the police.”
 
 “The VC paid a courtesy visit. He has assured us of support and cooperation in the investigation. The VC has also assured of sharing their internal inquiry report with us, so that we go ahead with action against those guilty,” Yadav said. 
 
 The meet raised quite a few eyebrows as Chopade reportedly set aside protocol to meet the top cop. The VC is of the deputy governor rank and Yadav is deputy inspector general rank officer. 
 
 Chopade said interests of students and the university have paramount importance rather than any protocol. The meeting with police commissioner, the VC said, would be serve as confidence building measure among students that varsity was leaving no stone unturned to keep credibility of examination system intact. 
 
 In the meantime, Yadav said they would definitely initiate criminal action against those found guilty in the university report. “We are not relying solely on the inquiry report of the university. The police would carry out separate investigation and arrest the suspects, even if they do not feature in the probe conducted by university,” Yadav said.
 
 The top cop said the crime branch will definitely initiate criminal action against all those found guilty in the university report. “We are not only relying on the inquiry report that would be submitted by the university. The police would carry out separate investigation and arrest the suspects, even if they do not feature in the probe conducted by university,” Yadav said.
 
 He added that another 25 students of Sai Institute of Engineering and Technology, who also allegedly wrote the answersheets after the examination, are under scanner.
 
