By Vinay Dalvi

 Following a   against the attendants of a payand-park at Crawford Market, a   posed as a motorist on Saturday afternoon and got two men arrested for  .
 
 DCP (Zone 1)   Sharma drove to the pay-and-park around 2 pm, and was asked to pay Rs 100 for an hour. When he argued, he was told to park his car someplace else.
 
 The accused attendants, Khaleel Bismillah Shaikh and Mukhtar Ahmed Abdul Gaffar Shaikh, couldn’t believe their misfortune when the harmless-looking motorist identified himself as the deputy commissioner of police. The two were arrested by the Azad Maidan police and charged under the Indian Penal Code Section 384 for extortion.
 
 As per the guidelines issued to all pay-and-park facilities in the city, Rs 60 should be charged per four-wheeler for an hour, and an extra Rs 20 for every added hour. Under no circumstances can the vehicle be charged more than Rs 180 for a 12-hour parking, or Rs 200 for beyond 12 hours.
 
 For two-wheelers, the cost of parking per hour is Rs 10, with Rs 5 added for every extra hour, and a maximum charge of Rs 60 per 12 hours, said Sub-inspector Swapnil Chavan from Azad Maidan Police Station.
 
 The police said attendants at the   would take advantage of the massive traffic surge in the area, and demanded Rs 100 for an hour, Rs 250 for four hours, and Rs 500 for parking beyond five hours.
 
 “A few traffic constables and BMC officials are hand-in-glove with the attendants. Several people have also complained of their vehicle parts being stolen at this pay-and-park. We are looking for the contractor and other accused,” an officer from Azad Maidan Police Station said.
 
 The police said the contract to run the facility was awarded to a firm named RT Corporation, which sub-let it to another firm, run by a man identified as Ateeq. DCP Sharma said the idea was to catch the attendants red-handed.
 
 “The complaints ranged from overcharging, stealing vehicle parts, to threatening people. We wanted to set an example and have booked the accused for extortion,” DCP Manoj Kumar Sharma said
 
 
