VILLUPURAM: The district police and health officials sealed a private hospital and arrested a paramedic on Friday after a 34-year-old polio-affected  , who underwent   at the hospital at Thirukoilur in Villupuram district, died three weeks later. Police have launched a hunt for three others — hospital proprietor T Vijayalaskhmi, a nurse and two paramedics — Sankari and Gowthami, who are on the run.

 E Navasakthi of Aradipet near Thirukoilur, a mother of four, underwent tests to determine the sex of fetus at T V Hospitals. Learning that the fetus is a girl she decided to abort. The hospital staff aborted her fetus on June 7. The woman was discharged after two days. She developed complications after 10 days and was rushed to Thirukoilur government hospital. She died on July 1 despite medical attention. She was given first aid and referred to   government medical college cum hospital on June 18. She died despite medical attention on July 1 triggering the district administration to order a probe. Inquiries revealed that the woman’s first baby (boy) died immediately after birth. Her second baby (girl) and third baby (boy) were normal deliveries while her fourth baby is a mentally-retarded child. Health officials said the woman, who suffered from dysthymia, a mild depression, died due to septic abortion. Inquiries also revealed that T V Hospitals, established by an  , is currently being managed by her daughter Vijayalakshmi, a nurse, and son-in-law Tamil, an advocate. The hospital does not have a regular duty doctor, adequate trained nurses and paramedical staff, and a doctor from Rajiv Gandhi government woman and children hospital in   visits the private hospital once in a week.
 
 Police registered a case against Vijayalakshmi and three others under Sections 314 (death caused by act done with intent to cause miscarriage), 315 (act done with intent to prevent child being born alive or to cause it to die after birth), 304-A (causing death by negligence), 419 (punishment for cheating by personation) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian penal code and Sections 5 (2) and 5 (3) of the medical termination of pregnancy act, 1971.
 
 “The woman affected by polio died of septic abortion. She was a dysthymia patient. Her condition had completely deteriorated when she was taken to Thirukoilur government hospital. She was referred to Mundiyampakkam government medical college hospital almost in a state of coma. She did not respond to the treatment and died on July 1. We have sealed T V Hospitals and have launched action against those involved in the crime,” said a health official.
 
