MUMBAI: The draft   (DP) 2014-34, which will be the blueprint for the city’s land use policies over the next two decades, was debated in the   house on Monday evening for final approvals. A total of 267 amendments to the DP were moved. The amendments pertained to land reservations for day care centres, children’s parks, and even a central park and a museum. 

 The BJP, the second largest party in the BMC with 82 corporators, sought 114 amendments. The Shiv Sena, which has 88 corporators, sought 82. Other smaller parties like the Congress, the NCP, the Samajwadi Party and the MNS moved 26, 21, 12 and 9 amendments, respectively. All 227 corporators from the various political parties were involved in moving the different amendments.
 
 Corporators also sought two amendments to the  .
 
 Leaders said most DP amendments pertained to plot reservations. The BJP wanted a reservation for a central park on Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) land spread over 250 hectares between Mazgaon and Sewri. “The MbPT intends to develop the Eastern Watefront as a recreation and tourism district. Hence we feel that the BMC should put in place the reservation for a central park,” Manoj Kotak, BJP leader in the BMC, said. 
 
 The BJP also proposed a museum in Juhu near the JVPD circle.
 
 The Shiv Sena sought over 80 amendments. The Shiv Sena is opposed to the proposed Metro car shed in Aarey. NCP party leader Rakhi Jadhav too came out opposing the car shed. Congress party leader Ravi Raja sought an   that would ensure Aarey remained a green zone.
 
 The planning committee, which submitted its report to the mayor in March, after considering public suggestions and objections marked open spaces in the city at 3.77 sq m per person.
 
 Trustee of NGO NAGAR Nayana Kathpalia said they were not convinced with the revised draft DP 2014-34. “There is no definition of public open spaces and neither does the existing figure of open spaces proposed per person indicate anything considering there has been a dilution in the open spaces to some extent,” Kathpalia said.
 
