MUMBAI: A 30-year-old pregnant woman from Bhandup became the third patient in the city this year to succumb to complications arising from an   viral infection, said civic officials. 

 The rest of the state is worse off with 45 people dying of   in May so far. The statewide toll since January 1 has climbed to 210.
 
 Mumbai’s third victim was seven months pregnant and a known patient of asthma. “The woman, originally a resident of Allahabad, came to live in Bhandup (West) a month ago. She died on May 16,” said BMC executive health officer Dr Padmaja Keskar. 
 
 The patient was first taken to BMC’s   in Bhandup on May 13 with high-grade fever, chills, cough and shortness of breath. 
 
 However, doctors advised her to be moved immediately to   for specialised care. She developed pneumonia and septic shock before dying three days later.
 
 Civic officials maintain H1N1 cases have been too sporadic and spread out in Mumbai to be considered an epidemic. They said there is no reason to panic, but people with flu-like symptoms should seek medical help at the earliest.
 
 Dr Keskar said the BMC has undertaken door-to-door surveillance near the woman’s home in Bhandup. Over 2,026 people have been checked for flu-like symptoms in the last few days. The patient’s 11 close contacts are asymptomatic, but three people with flu-like symptoms have been identified and put on treatment. The area will continue to be under surveillance for a few more days.
 
 Dr Pradeep Awate, who heads the epidemiology cell of the state government, said 1,058 patients tested positive for H1N1 virus so far this year. “We have recorded 210 deaths in this period, but the death rate seems to be slowing down in comparison to April,” said Dr Awate.
 
 The H1N1 viral infection, previously called swine flu, has changed its pattern in the last two years. “We noticed H1N1 infections peaking in the March-April period over the last two years. The incidence drops during rains, but doesn’t disappear completely,” said Dr Awate.
 
 There has been talk of the H1N1 virus undergoing a mutation, and leading to different symptoms and patterns. In fact, the new batch of H1N1 vaccines which will be available next month will contain a new strain called the Michigan strain, he added.
 
