NAGPUR: The controversy over   of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury’s cancelled seminar refuses to die down with the Left party’s mouthpiece slamming the   vice chancellor SP Kane for coming under pressure from saffron fountainhead RSS.

 On March 17, TOI had reported that Kane’s abrupt decision generated a major controversy. The seminar was organized by Nagpur University's Dr   where Yechury was the chief guest. It was scheduled for March 18-19 at the Convocation Hall. 
 
 But, after allegedly receiving some calls from right wing organizations, Kane cancelled it citing “law and order” situation. Retired IRS officer SN Busi, noted author and thinker, was another guest of the national seminar on ‘Erosion of Indian democracy: Challenges and solution’.
 
 In its March edition, the CPI (Marxist) mouthpiece ‘People’s Democracy’ mentioned that “there was no doubt left in anyone’s mind that the VC had cancelled the programme under pressure from the RSS and its outfits” in the full page article titled ‘People Give Fitting Reply To VC’s RSS-Dictated Action’.
 
 After cancelling the event, the VC had refused to specify the reason of cancellation stating that “it was an administrative decision, not meant to be revealed to the media”. However, he had told a delegation led by former state minister Nitin Raut that he feared a law and order situation, particularly in the aftermath of recent developments in Jawaharlal Nehru and Delhi universities.
 
 The mouthpiece documented all the developments preceding the seminar, that was later hosted by Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar College, and hailed the “progressive forces” for giving their leader a rousing welcome. 
 
 “On March 18, a series of programmes was conducted by the progressive forces right from receiving   at the Nagpur Airport. Hundreds of activists of Left parties like CPI(M), CPI, Forward Bloc, and also Republican parties of all groups, the Congress Party, Aadmi Party etc were present at the airport till the arrival of Sitaram Yechury,” wrote the paper.
 
 In the later part, the article mostly speaks about Yechury’s speech in which he spoke about liberty, equality and fraternity besides targeting the right wing parties.
 
