DEHRADUN: Congress on Wednesday took potshots at the   state government over the Centre expressing its reservation in CBI taking up an inquiry into the alleged   in  .
 
  Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat’s recommendation for a probe by the central agency hit a roadblock after Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari said that such an investigation would have a “demoralizing” effect on the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) officials.
  
  Congress’   on Wednesday said the letter written by the Union minister to the CM clearly shows that “BJP wants to save some politicians and government officials”. He said Congress has been repeatedly demanding an inquiry into the alleged irregularities in land acquisition for the project. “Their claim of zero tolerance for corruption is an attempt to mislead people. In fact, BJP is trying to save some powerful people. They have been targeting Congress over the issue, but it has not come back to haunt them.”
  
  Leader of Opposition in the state assembly, Indira Hridayesh, said BJP’s actions suggest that it wants to save the “big fish” involved in the alleged scam. “They are in power in the state and at the Centre. Who is stopping them from going for a CBI probe? The issue has exposed BJP in front of the people of Uttarakhand,” she said.
  
  On March 25 this year, the CM had recommended a CBI probe into the alleged Rs 240 crore scam in which six senior government officials were suspended. On Tuesday, Rawat confirmed that he had received a letter from Gadkari and that the Union minister felt that an investigation by CBI will hurt the morale of NHAI officials. When asked about the possibility of an investigation, the CM said that it was up to the CBI to decide.
  
  Meanwhile, Uttarakhand BJP spokesperson Vinay Goel told TOI that the state government had made its intent clear by recommending a CBI probe into the alleged scam. “We have stuck to our claim of zero tolerance for corruption. The alleged scam took place during Congress’ regime and its leaders do not have the moral right to target us,” he said.
