PATNA:   will inaugurate free Wi-Fi facility on university campuses across the state on February 20. The installation work for Wi-Fi connectivity in more than 308 colleges, nine universities and scores of other professional institutions in the state would be completed by February 10.
 
  A meeting of the principals and nodal officers of all the educational institutions, including NIT Patna, National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT),   (CNLU) and A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies was held at   (PU)’s academic council hall here on Wednesday to review the progress made by different institutions with regard to the installation of Wi-Fi server. It was found that the work has already been completed in several institutions and it was nearing completion in others. In PU colleges, the tower has already been installed and necessary hardware and software components have been made available to different departments and colleges as per requirements.
  
  PU students’ welfare dean and nodal officer Dolly Sinha, PU science faculty dean and Patna Science College principal M N Sinha and senior government officials, including IT department secretary Rahul Singh attended the meeting.
  
  After the meeting, Singh said the free Wi-Fi connectivity is chief minister’s pre-poll commitment to the people of Bihar and the government is keen to implement it at the earliest in the larger interest of students. “The state government has already sanctioned a sum of Rs220.50 crore for providing free Wi-Fi connectivity to all the universities and colleges in the state. Moreover, this ambitious project assumes greater significance in the light of the recent initiative of implementing cashless transactions in all educational institutions,” he added.
  
  Meanwhile, about 19 Magadh University (MU) constituent colleges in Patna district are likely to get free Wi Fi connectivity. These colleges include AN College, ANS College, Barh, B D College, B S College, Danapur, College of Commerce, J D Women’s College, J N Lal College, Khagaul, Mahila College, Khagaul, G J College, Bihta, M D College, Naubatpur, M M College, Bikram, R K D College, Kankarbagh, R L S Y College, Bakhtiarpur, RPM College, Patna City, R R S College, Mokama, SGGS College, Patna City, S M D College, Punpun, Arvind Mahila College and T P S College.
