PUNE: The prosecution in the   argued on Thursday that the postmortem report and the evidence provided by doctors have clearly established gang-rape and   of the victim.

 Pujari, an engineer with a software firm in Kharadi, was kidnapped on the night of October 7, 2009 from Kharadi bypass while she was waiting for a transport to return to her home from office. Her body was found in the Zarewadi forests under Khed police jurisdiction in rural Pune on October 9, 2009. 
 
 The Yerawda police later arrested four suspects in connection to the crime. One of them,  , has since turned an approver while main accused   and co-accused Mahesh Thakur and Vishwas Kadam are being tried for kidnapping, gang-rape, murder and other offences. The trial that started in 2011 is now in its final stages with the summing up of arguments by the prosecution and the defence lawyers before additional sessions judge L L Yenkar. 
 
 Special public prosecutor Harshad Nimbalkar argued, “The medical evidence not only established it to be a case of homicidal death, but has also established the date and time of the murder and the weapons (stones) used.” He also dwelt on the circumstances in which accused-turned-approver Chaudhary recorded his confessional statement before a first class judicial magistrate in October 2010. 
 
 Nimbalkar argued that the court ought to rely on Chaudhary’s confessional statement as the prosecution has established that the same was recorded on his own free will without any external pressure, threat or coercion. 
 
 The special public prosecutor submitted that the postmortem report mentioned that Nayana Pujari was murdered first by strangulation with her dupatta and later by smashing a big stone on the right side of her forehead. “The doctor has corroborated that the victim was strangulated in the car (used by the accused) and later thrown in the forest area where she was hit by the stone,” he said. The spot panchanama showed recovery of blood-stained stone that was found near the body and the stains on the stone had Nayana’s blood group AB+, which established how she was killed, he argued. 
 
 Nimbalkar submitted, “The postmortem was conducted at 1.10pm on October 9, 2009 at the Khed rural hospital and the doctor who performed the exercise opined that the death occurred 24-30hrs prior to the postmortem. This clearly indicated the time of death around early morning of October 8, 2009. Nayana was kidnapped around 9.30pm on October 7, 2009, and she was gang-raped in the car at four different places and later killed early morning of October 8, 2009.
 
 He argued that the doctor as well as the medical officer who assisted him in the postmortem corroborated these details besides the fact that there were number of abrasions and contusion marks in the front portion of the body, indicating resistance by the victim. 
 
