CHANDIGARH: The upcoming assembly election is a question of proving a point after the 2012 loss, says   president Capt  .The former CM believes that winning Punjab will help the Congress upswing nationally .“Punjab can turn out to be the one state that puts a stop to the series of losses for the party,“ he says.

 Claiming that AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal has “chickened out of having a debate with him or contesting him“, Amarinder adds, “He still wants to become the CM.He is hoping that if his party wins, he can fight a by-election in six months.“
 
 In the last election the party had to face rebel candidates who were propped up by deputy CM   using money power, Amarinder claims in an exclusive interview to TOI.
 
 You seem to have raised the stakes by calling the 2017 elections your last. How important is winning Punjab, for you and for the party?
 
 Naturally, one would like to win his last election. For me, it's also a question of proving a point after we lost the 2012 election. That is why I am absolutely determined to pull this off. Once this is through, a time comes for everyone to take a call. I will be 75 when fighting and 80 when the five year term is over. I am not a (Parkash Singh) Badal, who is making an appeal that winning this election will add 10 years to his life. Besides, 70% of India and Punjab is now under the age of 40. Let younger generation emerge and that is why we have brought in so many of them (as party candidates).
 
 What about the party? Will a victory in Punjab give the Congress a chance or revival at national level?
 
 Of course it will. I think it is very important. I do not know what the (party's) position in other poll-bound states is going to be. But certainly, we have been losing and it's time that we put an end to that.And I think Punjab is very much in a position to block this series of losses. That is my personal feeling.
 
 You had said that the Congress would release one comprehensive list of candidates.However, tickets are being announced in batches. What happened?
 We did want a comprehensive list but we had sent panels of names.When discussion takes place on a panel, the (central election) committee may be half and half divided. Then they say hold it or hold that, we will look at this seat again. That is why this happened. Otherwise we would have finished early .
 
 Was the issue of fielding turncoats the main roadblock, or were there other issues too?
 
 I don't think they are turncoats. They are leaders who have done enough but don't have confi dence in the par ty. Look at me, in 1984, I left the Congress and joined Akali Dal be cause I did not agree with the Operation Blue star. Then I found that Barnalas had done the same thing and I heard that even Badal and Longowal had given their consent to 1984, saying they h av e d o n e their bit and the Centre can do whatever it wants. I could no longer relate with the Akali Dal and came back (to Congress).
 
 Akalis cannot think beyond the (River) Ghaggar. We have been brought up as nationalists in the family and I found it really strange to be part of their party .
 
 Are you satisfied with the ticket allotment process adopted by the Congress this time?
 
 Yes. This time there is no problem. I am getting full support. Last time I was not satisfied. Then 39 seats were given to other people (contrary to his recommendation). I may not agree with choice on every seat but my contention was that whoever is fielded should be a winner. We won six out of these 39 seats, and out of the seats given to youth Congress only two of eight won. This time whatever discussions we are holding it is going very well. In case of the 77 names announced so far, I have no complaint. God willing, the rest 40 will also not be an issue.
 
 According to you, does the party gain from taking   on board?
 Look , anybody (party) gains if someone known joins. In his case, he has two plus points.
 
 For one, he has played cricket and Indian is crazy about cricket. So he's known. Secondly, he's into this comedy show. I have never watched it and I am told it's a popular show. He has also been an MP twice.
 
 Rival parties are saying that the entire state leadership of the Congress is camping in Delhi and campaign here has slacked. Your response?
 
 I have been heading the state unit since 1998 when Sonia Gandhi appointed me straightaway on this position.Since then there have been so many elections and it always happens like this. In case of the Congress it is not just Punjab being discussed, as is the case with Badals. Five states are being discussed in our case.
 
 Akali plan seems to tie you down in Patiala by fielding Gen J J Singh. How do you see that?
 
 I have been very fortunate to get the affection of people of Patiala who have allowed me to tour the state while visiting there in between. If they want to tie me down with this General, they will not be successful.
 
 When we speak to Congress cadres, they say their worst fear is that things may go the 2012 way in terms of ticket allotment or rebels contesting as independents.What is your take?
 
 Well, that is a threat and fear we always have. Last time, 6-7 people contested as independents, mainly because they were prompted by Sukhbir Badal who offered them money. We had 1,600 applicants and when we allot tickets, some people will obviously be disappointed. But this time things are different because this time people feel the Congress is coming to power.
 
 AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal has taken over the reins of his party's campaign. Your comments?
 
 This is because he wants to become the CM of Punjab.He is not going to fight me despite my challenge. He is going to hope that his party comes to power and then he can take over as CM and fight a by-election in six months.I have even asked him to debate Punjab's issues with me.I have stayed in Delhi for a while and people there are fed up of AAP government.Delhi is a Punjabi city and things travel here fast. All of the key people, like Durgesh Pathak, appointed by them here are outsider.
 
