BHOPAL: Come April 1 and Tamil Nadu’s popular Amma canteen will make its debut in the state, albeit in a new avatar. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s plan to dish out ‘Deendayal Thali’, the subsidised food scheme, will see light of the day with the state government deciding to open its first outlet at Rain Basera shelter home near Shahjahani Park in Bhopal where one can have a meal for a measly Rs5.

 The scheme will be launched as a corporate social responsibility (CSR) activity with financial assistance from corporate groups, in Bhopal, Indore, Jabalpur and Gwalior. ‘Deendayal Thali’ will have four rotis, dal, vegetable curry, pulav (fried rice) and pickle, while a plate with additions like sweets will come for Rs10.
 
 The government that is observing 2017 as ‘Garib Kalyan Varsh’ (poor welfare year) has made an initial provision of Rs10 crore for this scheme in the state budget for the financial year 2017-18.
 
 “The scheme will be started on April 1 to mark Deendayal Upadhyaya’s 100th birth anniversary. We will gradually increase outlets in Bhopal. Later, it will be opened in other cities,” Chouhan had told reporters on the sidelines of the state budget presented by finance minister Jayant Malaiya, on March 1.
 
 “We have been looking for assistance in Bhopal and elsewhere. If the scheme gets good response in Bhopal, it will be introduced all over the state,” said minister for urban development and housing Maya Singh.
 
 In Bhopal, the subsidised meal will be arranged by Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) in coordination with select social organisations. The BMC has has also called upon social, religious and non-government organisations (NGOs) besides corporates to submit their proposals for running subsidised kitchen by March 10. The meal will be distributed from 11am to 3pm. The organisation running the kitchen for ‘Deendayal Thali’ cannot charge more than Rs5 for a plate, said officials of the state secretariat.
 
 The municipal corporation with the state food and civil supplies department and civil supplies corporation will supply ration on PDS rates from consumer centres. The civic body will also provide room, kitchen, electricity and water to the social organisation for running the outlet.
 
 “The municipal corporation aims to open more than 10 outlets in Bhopal after the first kitchen at Shahjahani Park. We are looking at public places, preferably Nadra, Halalpur and Kushabhau Thakre bus terminal besides Bhopal and Habibganj railway stations to serve meals,” said officials of the BMC. 
 
 As far as funding is concerned, organisations will have to manage the same from donations. Moreover, they will have to disclose names of donors contributing to the scheme before accepting the money, added the officials.
 
 Being high on the state government’s popular agenda, district level coordinating and monitoring committee will regularly monitor the scheme.
 
