PUNE: Chief minister   on Wednesday stated that the state government has approved the development plan (DP) for the old city area. The government’s approval comes only a few days before the civic election. According to Fadnavis, the government has approved 850 of 937 reservations proposed in the draft plan.

 A committee, appointed under Pune divisional commissioner  , had submitted a draft plan to the state government in September 2015. The committee was appointed after Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) general body failed to approve the plan within the stipulated time.
 
 While addressing a function at Vadgaonsheri, Fadnavis said, “The city’s DP had been pending for the last many years. Today, we have approved it. Some new reservations have been added considering the city’s requirements.”
 
 While reservations proposed on government-owned land have been deleted, the metro rail zone has been fixed in the development plan. Besides, the government has given due consideration to develop the transport corridor. Reconstruction of buildings in Peth areas will also be possible as required space has been in the DP, the CM said.
 
 The committee had deleted 379 reservations meant for public use and opened up 458 hectares for residential purpose. It had also reduced reservations meant for playgrounds, primary schools, nullahs, gardens, affordable housing for the economically weaker sections, open spaces, etc. Opposition parties had raised objections saying that taking away DP from PMC was not correct. Party leaders insisted that the government clarify its stand on the changes made by the committee.
 
 As per sources in the state urban development department, the government has not taken any decision on hilltops and hill slopes since it is similar to BDP and has reserved the call on Central Business District Zone.
 
 Special reservations have been proposed to promote affordable housing and slum rehabilitation, while provisions for redevelopment of old buildings have been simplified. The government has also given a go-ahead to Development Control Rules, which will be applicable for old city areas as well extended limits. The metro route has been marked on major roads and the metro zone has been defined.
 
 The committee’s revised draft DP for mid-city area had proposed widening of major roads including FC Road, Laxmi Road, JM Road, Senapati Bapat Road and Karve Road, citing the “terrible” traffic problem and ineffective public transport, and thus the need for comprehensive traffic and transport provisions. It had insisted on road widening in Peth areas, even as it acknowledged that properties would be affected.
 
 However, the state’s DP has brought some relief. The 100ft road between   and Shaniwarwada has been cancelled for instance. The state government has also made changes to the HCMTR alignment to make it’s execution hassle-free.
 
 When the plan was with the civic body, it was mired in politics with corporators making arbitrary changes, even as the city suffered due to the slow pace of development. The opposition had accused the ruling NCP and Congress of “manipulating” the DP in favour of the builders’ lobby.
 
 
