MUMBAI: One died and 17 people were injured when a   hit the divider and turned turtle at a sharp turn  , at   in Vikhroli (West), on Saturday. 

 The bus, which had  , left Malad at noon and was headed to a   at  . Around 1pm, the driver lost control after taking a sharp right “at high speed” and hit the divider. The impact cracked its fuel tank spilling oil on the road and the bus toppled to its side. Six of the injured had fractures while the others were lucky to escape with minor injuries.
 
 The deceased was identified as Imtiyaz Shaikh (40), manager of the travel agency which booked the bus. The other passengers were his relatives. Parksite police in Vikhroli (West) registered a case against bus driver Sanoj Nishad (28) for rash and negligent driving. He is absconding.
 
 “The 40 people on board the bus were from the bride’s side. The marriage took place at Mumbra on Friday and the newlyweds were waiting to receive the passengers at the reception there when they learnt about the mishap,” deputy commissioner of police (zone VII) Sachin Patil told TOI.
 
 On hearing about the accident, relatives of the injured also rushed to the hospital. “I was at home when I got a call about the accident and I rushed to Rajawadi Hospital. The family members and relatives of the bride were travelling for the dawat (reception) when the mishap occurred,” said a relative of one of the injured. 
 
 “The bus was taking a right turn and suddenly the accident happened. After that I don’t recall anything as I fell unconscious,” said an injured passenger Yunus Makrani (24), at Rajawadi Hospital. “About 14 people were admitted to the hospital and we received one dead body. Most of the patients have either been treated or have been shifted to other hospitals,” said an official from Rajawadi Hospital.
 
 Locals said many mishaps have occurred at the spot, though there have been few casualties. Four teenagers in an SUV, which hit a pole at the same spot last July, were among those who had a lucky escape though the vehicle fell into a gorge. 
 
 “Motorists drive at high speed without realizing there is a sharp right turn ahead. Many motorists had a lucky escape after they suddenly noticed the turn. Several bikers lose control and skid after they apply emergency brakes,” a shopowner on Adi Shankaracharya Marg in Powai told TOI.
 
