BENGALURU:   across Bengaluru are feeling the heat of the ongoing truckers’ strike across south India. The strike is set to enter the fourth day on Monday. While prices of some vegetables have crashed, there’s glut of others because they aren’t being lifted from the city and its neighbouring villages. Also, some vegetables have become dearer as they aren’t being ferried to the city, leading to a shortage.

 “I got my last delivery of onions three days ago. I was supposed to receive another shipment on Monday, but now that doesn’t seem likely,” said Seyid, 21, a vendor in  . While Seyid continued to sell onions at the same price as before, he said he might be forced to jack up the rates if he doesn’t get new stock soon.
 
 Pushpa and Venkateshappa get their provisions from the Kalasipalya wholesale market. The couple normally trades in cauliflowers, drumsticks and carrots. “It’s very bad. We last got a delivery two days ago. We haven’t been getting anything fresh. The cauliflowers have begun to rot. I usually sell each cauliflower head for Rs 25-30. Now, with everything spoiling, I wouldn’t even get Rs 10 for a piece,” said Pushpa, adding normally she would sell carrots and drumsticks for Rs 15-20 per kilo, but the prices have shot up to Rs 35-40 due to the strike.
 
 Pyarejaan, 64, who gets onions from the Yeshwanthpur APMC four times a week, said he hasn’t faced any problem so far, but might in a couple of days when he’ll run out of stock. Ibraz Khan, a wholesaler in Kalasipalya, gets his produce from Karnataka, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. While his prevailing stocks will last for a few days, he says he isn’t receiving new shipments.
 
 “If there is a shortage of a particular vegetable, the price will rise. But if there is an excess, we’ll have to lower the prices substantially,” he said. “Since truckers are on strike in south India, I’ll have to pay Rs 5,000-15,000 extra to those ferrying potatoes from northern states,” he added.
 
 Ilias, a potato, onion and garlic wholeseller, said that his stock will last only two more days. “Price per bori (50kg sack) has gone up by Rs 50. Additionally, we were earlier selling onions at Rs 10 per kg; now the price has increased to Rs 15,” he said.
 
 “As of now vans and tempos seem to be doing most of the transporting, something that may not be sustainable in the long run as they aren’t equipped for inter-state deliveries,” he added.
 
 Vendors in Russel Market were largely unaware of the ongoing strike and said business is continuing as usual. Aslam Amin, a vendor, said three tempos come from the City Market every day with his stock, and that the strike hasn’t disrupted this schedule. “Our stock will last for another week, so we haven’t been affected. However, if the strike continues, we might have a problem,” said Mushtaq Ahmed, a vendor who gets his vegetables from Yeshwantpur and Kalasipalya markets.
 
 Noor, a small-time vendor, gets 10-15 kg of each vegetable every day, but received his last shipment two days ago. “If this goes on, I won’t have anything to sell,” he said.
 
 Truckers are protesting the Centre’s move to scrap old vehicles and levy toll on state highways, and are demanding a reduction in third-party premium paid to insurance firms.
 
 
 
 
 Not in a mood to relent, truckers intensified their strike on Sunday with nearly 23 lakh vehicles transporting important commodities staying off the roads. 
 
 G R Shanmugappa, president of the Karnataka State Lorry Owners and Agents Association, said they’d continue their protest till they get a response from the central government and the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA).
 
 “Some 23 lakh trucks stayed off the roads on Sunday throughout the south zone. We have also got an assurance from LPG association workers that they’ll support us in our protest. There are only three filling stations for the four southern states – in Mangaluru, Vizag and Salem and they have informed us that they’ll not go in for filling. We are also in talks with petrol and diesel association workers who have said they will join us from Monday,” he said.
 
 The truckers are protesting high insurance premiums and scrapping of old vehicles. According to Shanmugappa, private insurance companies are hand in glove with central government agencies as well as IRDA to ensure that decisions benefit them alone. “They do this once a year. Hike the rates and wait for the money to flow in. They earn crores through this. But we’ll not give up till we get some respite,” he said.
 
 However, the truckers’ leader said they had not interfered with the supply of certain crucial commodities. “We have not disrupted transportation of some essential commodities like milk, medicines and water because we don’t want the public to suffer. However, the supply of wheat flour, corn meal, finger millet and other foodgrains has been affected,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 Commenting on the strike, chief minister Siddaramaiah on Sunday said that he has directed transport minister Ramalinga Reddy to hold meetings with the truckers’ association to resolve the issue soon.
 
