At the recently-concluded literary festival in the city, Bharatanatyam exponent   and her troupe presented a dialogue between literature, music and dance. And to say that the performance left the audience awestruck will not be a hyperbole. The production titled   was a collection of works that represented the present, the past and the future, through a celebration of poets like  ,  ,   and  . The poetry of ancient poets, the evocative music of  , music mixing by Sai Shravanam coupled with the skills and grace of the dancers made the experience unforgettable.
The evening commenced with ‘Atishaya’, based on Purandara Dasa’s lyric visualising the scene where young Krishna danced on the hood of the venomous serpent Kalinga in Jamuna after vanquishing it. The second piece, ‘Kumarasambhavam’ adopted from Kalidasa’s epic portrayed the courtship of Lord Shiva and Parvati. It was followed by elegantly envisioned ‘Sthahi Sanchar’ based on Muttuswami Dikshitar’s composition that narrated the story of Ganga’s decent to Earth and her containment in Shiva’s matted locks when her arrogant flow threatened to submerge earth. The images of the evening Ganga aarti in Varanasi added to the appeal. Leela Samson’s solo, ‘Nibhrite Nikunje’, where a sakhi urges Radha to put her ego aside and bring back Madana was inspired by Javadeva’s composition. Leela as Radha recalling her moment of togetherness with Madhava was outstanding and left the audience spell-bound with her mature bhava. The evening concluded with spectacular choreography and mesmerising nrittya on Dikshitar’s lyrics for ‘Gangae Maampaahi’.
 Speaking on the occasion, Samson said, “It’s a privilege for dancers to dance on the greatest sahitya the country has ever produced. It was tough; we had to step beyond our comfort zone but the experience was exhilarating and even beyond words. While connecting with the works of legendary poets of India, I felt that the biggest challenge lies in vernacular translation — from Urdu to Tamil, from Tamil to Assamese and so on. And over the years, I have grown so much love for these languages and their expressions that I think we should turn our heads back perhaps a little away from politics and preserve our vernacular literature by translating them not in English, but other vernacular languages so that every child of this country has access to all the great poets and prose writers of this country.”
 
