NEW DELHI: Four labourers fell unconscious after they inhaled toxic gas inside a tank in  , near   in south Delhi, on Saturday morning.

 The tank, which was originally meant for harvesting rain water, was filled with filth and sewage which hadn’t been cleaned for long.
 
 A case under Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against J K Mehta, the owner of the property, its staff and the builder, said Chinmoy Biswal, additional DCP (south).
 
 Police said one of the labourers made a PCR call to inform that his coworkers were not responding to his voice. A police team, along with two fire tenders, was immediately dispatched. According to police, the labourers came to the spot around 10am. They removed the lid of the tank and one of them, Anil, stepped inside. It seems the men were not using any safety harness or rope, police said.
 
 A minute after Anil went in, he stopped responding to questions from those outside. Assuming that Anil could not hear them as the tank was 10 feet deep, Balwinder descended into the tank.
 
 The others, Deepu Dubey, Swarn Singh, Jaspal Singh and Lokesh, waited outside, chatting. Deepu then went near the tank and called out to Anil and Balwinder. Like last time, he got no reply, at which he got scared and informed the others.
 
 After waiting for 15-20 seconds, Deepu stepped inside, but even he stopped responding like the other two. Swarn then tied a rope around his waist and asked his son, Jaspal, to tie it to a pole so that he could go inside and pull the others out. “It was very dark inside and I couldn’t see much. My father was first replying to my questions, but after 20-25 seconds he stopped,” Jaspal told TOI.
 
 Jaspal then stepped on the pipe which the others had used to go down the tank. He said he could at once smell the gas inside the tank and started feeling dizzy. He stepped out immediately and fell unconscious. Lokesh then raised an alarm and called the cops.
 
 The bodies were pulled out by 1pm, after which three of them — Deepu, Swarn and Jaspal — were taken to Fortis Hospital, Balwinder to Safdarjung and Anil to AIIMS Trauma Centre. Four of them were declared brought dead, while Jaspal was given treatment and later discharged. Jaspal, Anil, Lokesh and Deepu were residents of a village in Ghitorni and lived with their families while Deepu lived in a night shelter with his only surviving family member, a brother.
 
 
