The ' ', who is feared to have died recently, was a   that ruled the tourism zone of   for many years. His territory encompassed the major chunk of the   Believed to have been first recorded from   of Bandipur Tiger R eserve, he was identified BPT 222 in the logs of WTI by Dr Ullas Karanth and the forest department. He was referred to as Kunta by tribals and forest guards because of the limp owing to an injury to his front paw. 

  The carcass of a tiger, which had almost similar stripes like the ones Prince had, was found near Lokkere on the fringes of Kundkere range recently and the officials are still not sure it's the famed cat. 
 
  Prince was the one of the most photographed tigers of south India. He was a dare devil 'Muscular Hunk', who enthralled the ensemble of wildlife enthusiasts and tourists alike by his camera-savvy nature and bold and nonchalant show. He occupied the territory of the legendary Agastya in early 2009, his boldness was exemplified by the show he used to put up, never was he perturbed by the presence of tourists. Such was his fearlessness that he used to walk bang on the safari track, forcing the vehicles to pull back at times. 
 
  The tigers of south India are seldom bold and tourist-friendly unlike their counterparts in central India. A sighting usually implies 'a glimpse' of a tiger when they sprint across the road or grab a quick sip of water on a hot summer day. Prince was a legendary cat who changed the very definition of such a sighting. He used to comfortably dip in a pool of water for hours at times, used to get up and put up an impressive cat walk, scent-marking his territory. His territory was huge and extended from fringes of Kundukere range, Mulapura extending up to Shetti Kere and Basavana Katte. He frequented the popular water holes of the tourism zone like Dayyad Katte, Ane Katte, Hulikatte and Moor Kere among host of others. He instilled inspiration by the way he defended his territory, defeating many young and strong tigers who challenged him. Even with an injured limb he continued to dominate his territory for years, proving everyone wrong who felt the injury would mark his demise. 
 
  Prince won the hearts of millions by his charisma, attitude and audacity. He was a charismatic tiger who can be accorded the credit for putting Karnataka on the world map of wildlife photographers and tiger lovers. As they rightly say "once a legend, always a legend", Prince will continue to rule the hearts and minds of every enthusiast forever. His legacy as the legendary tiger that roared in the wilderness of Bandipur will not end here. 
 
  The writer is a wildlife photographer 
 
 
