NEW DELHI: Amid confusion over a section of   calling off the strike, the   corporation was able to clear the accumulated trash from main roads, but the stink from inner colony lanes continued to inconvenience the residents in trans-Yamuna areas on Tuesday. More than 50 trucks from the refuse removal depot lifted around 1,400 MT of waste from the dhalaos. 

 However, streets in Khurenji, Shiv Puri, West Vinod Nagar, East Azad Nagar and Geeta Colony remained filthy. Shabbir Ahmed, a resident of Khurenji Khas, said, “There was news of the strike being called off by midnight and sweepers started cleaning the main road in the morning. But they abandoned it mid-way. Colony lanes are still littered with trash. God knows what exactly is going on!”
 
 Krishna Nagar and Vishwas Nagar also witnessed some activity around midnight. Vimla Devi (60), a resident of Krishna Nagar’s A block, said: “MCD people came to pick up the garbage around 2.30am. They did clear some portion, but the situation is still far from normal. My grandchildren are sick and I am really worried about their health.” 
 
 R K Verma (55) from West Vinod Nagar looked confused as well. “The entrance to our colony is strewn with garbage. The dhalao was cleared by the MCD workers, but the streets are still filthy.”
 
 Meanwhile, chanting slogans against BJP-led corporations and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, hundreds of sanitation workers dumped garbage at many places. Among their targets were AAP’s Trilokpuri MLA Raju Dhingan office and   near  . 
 
 Officials at Ghazipur sanitary landfill site said 1,400 MT of garbage was dumped till Monday night. The number of trips reduced to around 100 during the day as many trucks were prevented from plying by the protesting employees. Nepal Singh, the head of Municipal Vehicles Drivers’ Union, said: “While 50-odd trucks operated at night—as everyone was under the impression that strike was called off—30 drivers in the morning shift were stopped by the protesting workers. Some were even physically assaulted. In the past, acid was thrown at one of our drivers. So, we won’t work until the mess gets sorted out or we are given police protection.”
 
 By noon, the unions, which had announced truce with the civic body, joined the striking employees. There was heavy deployment of central forces at the refuse removal (RR) depot in Jhilmil Colony, where garbage collection trucks remains parked, even as the striking workers cried foul, saying they were “misled and cheated” by the authorities. Said Vir Singh Dhingan, who heads  : “The strike has resumed as the commissioner backtracked on the promises.”
 
 Satya Sharma, mayor of the east corporation, confirmed that the strike had resumed on Tuesday. “I wanted to meet deputy CM   but he has left for Punjab. AAP has abandoned Delhi. The demands of safai karmacharis can not be fulfilled by us alone. The Delhi government will have to pitch in.”
 
 However, there were some unconfirmed reports about a section of the employees agreeing for a truce late on Tuesday evening. “A final call will be taken on Wednesday,” said a union leader.
 
 
