MUMBAI: Procter & Gamble, the world's largest consumer products company, posted a decline in sales during October-December quarter, which the company attributed to the   of two high-value currency notes in India.
 
  “India demonetisation, the elimination of Rs 500, Rs 1000 bank notes that accounted for over 80% of that country’s currency in a cash-dominated economy was an unexpected head wind. It (sales) was flowing high single-digits growth last quarter to a decline of high singles this quarter," the company’s chief financial officer Jon Moeller said during an investor call on Friday.
  
  P&G's three entities in the country, which sell an array of products ranging from detergents to razors to sanitary napkins, had combined revenues of Rs 10,248 crore in last fiscal. The maker of Tide detergent and   said organic sales grew 2% after a one percentage point drag due to portfolio rationalisation in  , and includes negative impact from Indian demonetisation apart from difficult operating environments in a few other markets.
  
  Last fiscal, the Cincinnati, US-based company posted a marginal decline in overall revenues after it de-focussed several unprofitable lines of business in India, which has negatively impacted its short-term topline growth rate. Besides, P&G has been more focused on premium products that generate high sales at modern trade outlets in contrast to its rivals who stock several mass brands on retail shelves.
  
  Various companies in the   have reiterated that the government’s anti-black money measure would benefit the Indian economy in the medium term but that they have to brace themselves for a short-term blip.
  
  P&G's largest rival Unilever had warned that consumer spending would be impacted by lower cash in hand. Hindustan Unilever, the Indian unit of the British-Dutch multinational, said in a investor’s presentation in November: “In the short term, market growths to be adversely impacted for a few months.”
  
  According to industry experts, the demonetisation came at a time when consumer goods industry grew marginally by 1% in volume in the September quarter and most companies were looking to ramp up promotions and offers to persuade consumers to loosen purse strings.
  
  The FMCG sector continues to be in a flux with the liquidity crunch as retailers have held back on procuring new stock and suppliers are constrained by available credit.
  
  According to global performance management company Nielsen, the Rs 2.5-lakh-crore FMCG market could take a hit of nearly 1.5% of net sales, which works out to Rs 3,840 crore.
  
   , equity analyst at Jefferies India, said: "2017 presents an interesting dichotomy. While the shift from un-organised to organised trade is an imperative post demonetisation, this would come on the back of a weak macro environment, where the pace of premiumisation will be slowing down.
