RANCHI: Most slaughterhouses and meat shops in the state capital remained closed on Tuesday as the   (RMC) and the district authorities prepared to launch a drive to shutdown unlicensed abattoirs by Friday. 

 A day after the   government ordered the closure of illegal slaughterhouses and meat shops, the RMC handed over a list of 52 licensed meat shops operating in the city to the Ranchi deputy commissioner (DC) Manoj Kumar and superintendent of police (SP) Kishor Kaushal. The list, however, says that the city does not have a single licensed slaughterhouses. 
 
 The RMC guidelines mandate that any shop culling and selling more than 10 animals a day be termed as slaughterhouses. “However, meat shops owners are meant to cull animals in a different store and only sell the meat at the counter,” RMC deputy mayor Sanjeev Vijaywargia said. 
 
 Though the RMC had initiated drives in past, the order of the home department is the first. “A joint team of district authority and the RMC will be formed to crackdown on illegal abattoirs from Wednesday,” Vijaywargia added.
 
 The closure of illegal abattoirs is likely to send the rates of mutton and chicken soaring in coming days. While mutton is priced at Rs 450 per kilogram, chicken is priced at Rs 120 per kilogram. The crackdown is likely to give an impetus to fish business as it does not fall in the category of meat shops or slaughterhouses.
 
 With the tribal festival Sarhul scheduled on Thursday, the crackdown on illegal meat shops is likely to fuel a crisis in supply of chicken and mutton. However, the demand is likely to nosedive with Ramnavami set to be observed in the first week of April. 
 
 Mohammad Mohsin, a 65-year-old meat seller in Bahu Bazar, is one of the 52 in Ranchi to have a valid license to do business. “The shop was opened by my father in the 1970s. It has been running on a valid license ever since,” Mohsin said, showing the license issued by RMC. 
 
 On the other hand, a section of meat sellers in Ranchi expressed their discontent on the government move and said they will sit with the latter for a discussion. 
 
 
