A   or ' ' has been set up near gate number 7 of Sector 21 in Noida to help the poor and the homeless. This is the second such wall (one such wall is in Sector 25) that allows the residents of the nearby societies, government and non-government organisations to donate clothes and other items to the underprivileged people. The initiative has been started by   of the Lucknow-based organisation, Indian Youth Forum (IYF), and   of Anandam Foundation, and has a specific theme – "If you don't need it, leave it. If you need it, take it."

  
  ANOTHER HOOK ON THE WALL: The first wall which was erected in Sector 25, with donated clothes hanging on it 
 
  
 Madhuri Agarwal, the leading member of this initiative in Delhi-NCR, who is also a professor and an architect, told us, "In this modern age, we are so caught up with our daily lives that we seem to have forgotten our responsibility towards the society. Keeping this thought in mind, we have constructed this wall, and are planning to set up 100 more such walls across India to help the underprivileged sections." She added, "People can donate books, clothes, bed sheets, shoes, and anything which is in good condition, and is usable."
 
  Madhuri, along with her students at  , and students from Jamia Millia Islamia have painted the graffiti on the wall, highlighting on the importance of educating a girl child. Madhuri said, "We chose graffiti as a medium to express our thoughts, as we believe that visuals have a better impact on the society."
 
  Anjali, a maid who was present at the launch, said, "Yeh humare liye bahut sahi hoga, iss se hum logon ko fayada bhi hoga, aur paisa bhi bachega." She added, "Free mein milega kya yeh sab? Humein police pakad kar le gayi toh?"
 
  
  The wall in Sector 21
 
 
  
 The wall is not just a designated spot where people can leave clothes, shoes, books and other materials, but it can also be used as a platform for putting across social messages. "It can be used for spreading awareness on topics like ‘Say No To Acid Attack’, education for girls, gender equality, etc," added Madhuri.
 
 
  
  Vishakha Goel, performed a special act on ‘Stop Acid Attack’ at the newly launched '
  of Kindness'
 
 
  At the launch, Vishakha Goel, a student of Ambedkar Institute of Advanced communications Technology and Research performed an act near this wall, giving the message -– 'Stop Acid Attacks'.
 
  D C Goel, chairman of Jalvayu Vihar Sehkari Awas Samiti, who was present at the event, said, "After getting an overwhelming response to the wall set up in Sector 25, we decided to set-up a wall in Sector 21."
 
  
  Donors pose in front of Sector 25 'Neki Ki Deewar'
 
  
 
 "We all have things that we no longer use, this wall is a great opportunity for us to donate such things," says Ashok Sawhney, president, Jalvayu Vihar Community Centre (Sector 21 and Sector 25). "The wall has already started generating curiosity in the minds of the passersby," adds Sawhney.
 
 
  
  'Neki Ki Deewar' in Sector 25
 
 
 
  
  The group of students who painted the graffiti on the wall along with   (in brown kurta) and Vishaka Goel, who performed the act on 'Stop Acid Attacks' (BCCL/ Lokesh Kashyap)
 
 
