PUNE: It was the best of times, it was the worst of times.

 On Tuesday, when the dance of democracy was in full swing, several women who were presiding over polling booths had to battle considerable odds to serve their city.
 
 Right from whipping the venue into shape, to spending the entire day in those cramped, unhygienic confines, and not even being able to take a bathroom break, the women   persevered through it all. 
 
 Niranka Mulye presided over the   polling station No. 70, which had about 800 voters. When she reached the school on Monday night, she found there was not enough light or a working fan; the dirty washroom didn’t have running water. Her pleas for water were heard only on Tuesday.
 
 “While polling started at 7.30am, our work began at 6am, and continued till 5.30pm,” said the primary schoolteacher. “We will gather the material and return the electronic voting machines at 7.30pm. The submission and paperwork will consume more time. I don’t know when I’ll return home,” she said. 
 
 Mulye said the arrangements were much better for the Lok Sabha   in 2014. “The fans don’t work here, and with so many people coming in, the room becomes very stuffy. Yesterday, the rooms were extremely dirty — we cleaned them up with a broom. There was no staff to help us so we had shift the tables and benches. We had to get our own water and food. I suffer from hypertension, and I even forgot to take my medication. We need to be provided relievers, and at least two breaks of 15 minutes each,” she added.
 
 Sameedha Tikhe, a PO in Someshwarwadi, had to come all the way from Karve Road for election duty. “I started from home when it was still dark outside, at 4.45am. I will go home probably by 11pm, when it will be dark again. The government holds our jobs to ransom if we decline election duty. At least make sure that the infrastructure that you provide is good,” was Tikhe’s appeal. “Women face many problems. There is a need to provide clean, well-lit and stocked washrooms. The scene here is pathetic. The government also needs to make provisions for food and water,” she added. 
 
 “Everyone talks of women’s safety,” said another presiding officer of a polling booth near the Baner-Pashan link road. “We arrived when it was still dark outside. I come from the other side of town, and thankfully my husband dropped me. What about women who have no vehicles or relatives to accompany them?” she said.
 
