CHENNAI: In a move that could extend the lifespan of the Edappadi K Palaniswami government by at least six months, Tamil Nadu assembly speaker P Dhanapal on Monday disqualified 18 MLAs supporting T T V Dhinakaran,on charges that the legislators have “voluntarily given up their membership of the political party, the AIADMK ...“ by submitting a petition to governor C Vidyasagar Rao, communicating lack of confidence in chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami.

 Dhanapal declared the assembly seats held by the MLAs as having fallen vacant and intimated it to the EC. The Tamil Nadu government gazetted the 21-page or der of the speaker in the evening. The disqualification move, which temporarily puts the EPS government on a stronger wicket, was taken after the TTV camp failed to convince the speaker, who is sued three show-cause notices, including two notices for personal hearing, since August 24. TTV supporters had sought more time and documents besides seeking to cross-examine the CM and whip.
 
 In his order, the speaker recalled DMK leader M K Stalin's visit to Raj Bhavan to meet the governor and seek a floor test against the EPS government after 19 MLAs withdrew support to the chief minister. “I cannot view this as an isolated act or an unconnected incident. It is quite evident that the respondents herein have deviated from their loyalty to their party and have voluntarily taken the side of an opposition party ,“ he said. “These facts lead to the conclusion that the respondents have in fact moved away from the ideology of the party and the political party itself.“
 
 While the dissidents have been sheltering under the Supreme Court judgment in the   case involving the Yeddiyurappa government, the speaker rejected the claims.
 
 The speaker let off S T K Jakkaiayan (Cumbum), one of the dissidents, after he said he was pressured into submitting the representation to the governor and sought to withdraw it.The rebels accused Palaniswami of “favourtism, abuse of power, misuse of government machinery to cover up the corrupt practice“ and sought the governor's intervention. The rebels were herded to Coorg on September 8, after a fortnight at a Puducherry resort. With the disqualification of 18 MLAs, AIADMK tally is now 116 in the 215-member House. DMK and allies account for 98 members.
 
 Even as the disqualification triggered political frenzy , its main architect, Palaniswa mi held talks with bureaucrats and later met office bearers in  . “I wish to reiterate that none can lay hands on the party and government as long as we have your (cadre) support ... I am just Palaniswami, not a chief minister. Amma is eternal general secretary and chief minister. I am following the path laid out by her,“ he said.
 
 Dhinakaran alleged that Palaniswami's aim was to cling to power and evade possible action of enforcement agencies.
 
 The MLAs disqualified include S Thanga Tamilselvan (Andipatti), R Murugan (Ha rur), S Mariappan Kennedy (Manamadurai),   (Periyakulam), C   (Gudiyatham), P Palaniappan (Pappireddipatti), V Senthil Balaji (Aravakurichi), S Muthiah (Paramakudi), PVetrivel (Perambur), N G Parthiban (Sholingur), M Kodandapani (Tiruporur), T A Elumalai (Poonamallee), M Rengasamy (Thanjavur), R Thangadurai (Nilakottai), R Balasubramani (Ambur), S G Subramanian (Sathur), R Sundararaj (Ottapidaram) and K Uma Maheswari (Vilathikulam).
 
