BHOPAL: Lack of teachers in state-run schools has seemed to slow down government’s ambitious plan of improving Madhya Pradesh’s education standards.

 Many government schools in the state have vacancies for regular teachers as well as guest faculty. Especially, the students of classes 10 and 12 of   schools suffer as there aren’t sufficient teachers to take classes. Further, government’s cap on appointing guest teachers this year has added to the woes.
 
 Teachers association of Bhopal are up in arms against the government for failing to appoint over 1000 guest teachers even after providing assurance ahead of the academic session.
 
 “In some school there are no science and maths teachers, but in many government higher secondary schools there are no teachers to take classes for many subjects across all the three streams,” said  , secretary, Teacher’s Association, Bhopal.
 
 “The government should not blame the teachers if the board results of classes 10 and 12 come out bad this year,” said a teacher. “It’s humiliating when teachers are blamed for bad results. There is an acute shortage of teachers in state and it has been 4th year in a row now, nobody cares and eventually we will be blamed if the result is bad,” the agitated teachers said.
 
 Since the beginning of the session, there has been no faculty for science, arts and non-medical stream. The students have not been taught important subjects like maths, biology, physics, the teachers added.
 
 The situation in the commerce section is even worse. “Government as per the policy had to appoint over 1000 guest teachers, not taking the regular appointments in account. But it’s been a month since schools have reopened for the new session, nothing has happened so far,” the members of teachers forum added.
 
 The students are worried about how they will take their final examinations which have been scheduled two months ahead in February in wake of the assembly elections.
 
 “It is a shame that we have to tell our students that they would be taught by teachers from junior classes till government makes some arrangements. The education system of this state has totally collapsed,” the teachers said.
 
 Dhirendra Chaturvedi, joint director,   (DPI) said “From our side the file has been sent to the ministry and it is now their work to take a call on it.”
 
