JAIPUR:   in the state capital including   (JCTSL) buses and metro will go intelligent. Under the   city project, the   (JSML) will introduce   for Jaipur.

 Once the system is established, commuters in the state capital can get exact schedule, location and seat availability regarding JCTSL buses, Jaipur Metro and details required to hire cabs through a mobile app.
 
 The app - Journey Planner, is a part of many other initiatives being taken by the JSML to streamline the public transport sector which include integrating bus, metro and cab services.
 
 The app will give information about JCTSL bus routes including private operators. The mobile application will have inbuilt route information of all the routes. The user will give inputs about the origin and destination of trip and the app will provide information about what are the routes available to make the trip and what is the frequency, the timings and fare information.
 
 The same app will also have the latest Jaipur Metro routes details. The users will be provided with information about route, frequency and fare.
 
 The Smart Passenger Information System project will also have features such as integration of the services of JCTSL, passenger information system, vehicle scheduling and dispatch system, development of web application – Journey Planner and command and control the center.
 
 Sandesh Nayak, chief executive officer, JSML, said, “The estimated cost of project is Rs 22 crore. The JSML will invite tender for the same on Wednesday.”
 
 The official further informed TOI, under the project a control room would be established. Movement of each and every city bus would be tracked by control room since each of them will be equipped with Vehicle Tracking System (VTS) and be GPRS-enabled.
 
 The JSML will also install Passenger Information System at 250 locations. Passengers waiting at bus shelters will be provided with information about routes, next bus arrival (real time) of the particular routes, location of the bus, arrival of the next stop.
 
 “It will be also possible for the control room to see who all boarded the bus at the designated stoppages through camera and at what point did they alight from the bus. In the first phase, SPIS will be rolled out for city buses and Jaipur Metro,” added a JSML official.
 
 
