CHENNAI: The city corporation is taking ahead it plan for restoration of the   and wants residents of the area to chip in. On Tuesday, a group of five   (GCC) officials led by the regional joint commissioner conducted an inspection and met people in the neighbourhood.

 An official who was part of the inspection said the joint commissioner wanted to review the plans the corporation had made for revival of the lake, a large portion of which has been encroached upon.GCC has planned to fence the water body , strengthen the bund and create an area where residents can jog or walk. It also plans to put up benches and set up some equipment for children to play . The restoration will be on the lines of the   project, but not on such a big scale, officials said. Last August, the corporation resolved to allocate 94 lakh for the eco-restoration. On Tuersday , officials told residents that the sum might not be sufficient. An official later declined to comment when asked about the paucity of funds.
 
 During the meeting, residents urged the corporation officials to garner funds from companies in and around   through their corporate social responsibility (CSR) programmes.
 
 In response, the officials asked residents to pitch in with funds and also get donations from small shopkeepers in the vicinity . “This was a pre-budget site visit,“ the official said. “It is difficult for us to approach people for donations when we don't know under what sub-heads the government had divided funds for the lake revival. For example, if recreating a bund requires X amount of funds, we can target a collection and ask for donations accordingly .GCC should give us a copy of the plan,“ said S Murugan, a resident and member of the federation of associations which spearheaded the demand for revival of the lake.
 
 After a long battle by residents who highlighted how the lake had shrunk from 27acres to the present 4acres, the corporation last year decided to desilt the lake and put up a fence to prevent further encroachment. “But the fencing work stopped half-way and dumping of garbage has become regular. Lack of proper desilting and letting out sewage into the lake has made the situation worse,“ Murugan said.
 
