KOCHI: In order to regularize functioning of   in the city, the corporation has directed them to register with the local body. The move comes after the owner of such a centre was arrested for beating up a one-year-old boy. 

 According to the corporation's directive, the registration process has to be completed within June 10-30. The decision was taken at a meeting convened by mayor   on Wednesday.
 
 The centres do not fall under the category of institutions, which require a Dangerous and Offensive Trades and, Factories (D&O) licence or a tutorial licence. Hence, the corporation has decided to draft a new by-law for regulating their functioning. "Currently, the corporation does not have any data on the number of day care centres. As the city gets more urbanized, it will have an increasing number of working couples. When parents go for work, they are forced to leave the kids at the day care centres. It has become necessary for the local bodies to regularize the operations of such centres," said welfare standing committee chairman AB Sabu.
 
 The local body has entrusted the staff working with integrated child development scheme (ICDS) to prepare a report on the facilities required at the day-care centres. As per ICDS, a day care facility should provide 40sq ft area for a child, besides providing one ayah for 10 children. It should also have sufficient playrooms (indoor) and toys and proper sanitation facilities. Stability of the building housing the centre is also equally important.
 
 Once the registration process is completed, the day care centres will have to start applying for licence. "The local body will be ready with the by-law by then. Licences will be issued to centres which fulfil the requirements stated in the by-law," said Sabu adding that the corporation has also decided to direct heath inspectors to identify day care facilities which do not register with the local body. He also said the local body will impose a registration fee. "It should get the approval of the council and should also get approval from the state government," he added.
 
 In the meeting it has also been decided to put in place a two-tier monitoring system. At ward or division level there will be vigil groups or ' ' chaired by the respective division councillor. Police officers as well as doctors, lawyers and other professionals residing in the area will be members of the group.
 
 A monitoring committee will also be set up at the corporation level. Mayor will chair the committee.
 
 Meanwhile, the Kerala State Commission for   has sought a report on the incident of a child being brutally treated at a day care centre in Kochi. The commission has sought a report from Ernakulam district collector, city police commissioner, Kochi corporation secretary and district child welfare officer to be submitted within 10 days.
 
