BATHINDA: Police on Sunday claimed to have cracked the   in Mehraj village of Bathinda with the arrest of nephew of the victims. Police said that  , 48, and his wife Gurmail Kaur, 46, were killed on April 18, for the eight acres of land they owned.

 The couple had no child and their nephew   was living with them for a year. Police said that Narinder hired Gursewak Singh to help him eliminate the couple and take possession of the land. Both the accused have been arrested and confessed to their crime, police said.
 
 The couple was found dead at their house on the intervening night of April 17-18. The bodies had severe head injuries. Police said that Harpal Singh owned eight acres of land in Mehraj and his wife’s nephew Narinder Singh of Wajidke Khurd village in Barnala, who was living with the couple for one year, was eyeing the property.
 
 Bathinda IG M S Chhina and Bathinda SSP Naveen Singla on Sunday shared details of the investigations. IG Chhina said, “Narinder did not do any work to earn his livelihood. He had been living with the couple for the past one year. Nearly a month ago, Narinder hired one Gursewak Singh of village Sehjara in Barnala. Gursewak already has four cases against him, including under the NDPS Act, for causing hurt and under the Arms Act.”
 
 “Narinder gave Gursewak Rs 30,000 initially. He also promised to him Rs 2 lakh after the crime and one acre of land out of the eight acres he was eyeing. The land per acre is valued at Rs 20 to 25 lakh,” the IG said.
 
 Narinder called Gursewak at village Mehraj on the night of April 17, Chhina said. Armed with baseball bats, they together entered the room where Harpal and Gurmail were sleeping. Gursewak hit Harpal and Narinder hit Gurmail with the weapon and and fled with some gold jewellery, Rs 20,000, and two Aadhaar cards of the deceased persons, police said.
 
 Police said that they initially police suspected role of Harpal’s brother Jugraj and nephew Baljit but zeroed in on Narinder after getting his call details. They said both Narinder and Gursewak were arrested on Sunday morning from village Sehajara in Barnala and police recovered Rs 50,000 cash, 42 gram jewellery worth Rs 1.26 lakh, two baseball bats, two Aadhaar cards and a motorcycle.
 
 
