The next time your child makes paper  , and flies them, don’t discourage him. They might make a living out of it — just like the Australia-based duo   Parker and  . The duo met at a   plane contest in a university and since then, has been travelling the world to teach kids 
how to make paper planes. “When we won the competition, we qualified for the national championships and world championships. We never thought we will be doing this for a living. This is the ninth year we have been doing this. We have been pinching ourselves because we keep wondering how long this will last, and where this is taking us… It is such a ridiculous career, isn’t it, folding papers on a full-time basis for a living?” laughs James, who can make more than seven different kinds of paper planes. They have unusual and quirky names like gliders that have wide wings, acrobatic planes, sting ray, etc. “Making a paper plane can take from five minutes to a month, depending on the size and technique,” shares Dylan. 
 As a note for parents, the duo tells us that making paper planes is serious business. “It involves a lot of engineering and physics. Paper planes defy the laws of physics. The way you throw them and the speed, etc, are very important. It teaches you a lot of transferable skills like mathematics, technology,   and physics. If you introduce this into children’s curriculum, they can easily solve problems. It is always fun to learn from play and that is what we are doing,” shares James. Adding to that, Dylan says, “Ten years ago, nobody knew there would be so many different kinds of jobs that would involve science and technology. Parents are more open these days and want their kids to be creative and find a field that they like. “Ironically, James has a background in landscape architecture and Dylan has a marketing background, but their love for the plane brought them together. In fact, the movie, Paper Planes made by Australian filmmaker  , is inspired by the Paper Pilots (This what they call themselves!).
 Making paper planes, is also apparently a nice way to learn how to take risks. Dylan says, “A lot of parents and teachers bring up their children in a protected environment. They are taught not to make mistakes and are spoon-fed at every point of time. Sometimes, we give a sheet of paper, and kids are afraid to do anything with it. They expect us to help them. But what we tell everyone is, don’t let the fold fold you. What’s the worst that can happen? Go ahead. Take a risk. Mistakes are what you learn from. You never know where you would fly to next.”
 
