NAGPUR: The wards from where political bigwigs like mayor Pravin Datke and opposition leader Vikas Thakre will contest are under observation for expenditure. To make observation more effective, the   (SEC) has appointed officials of   department who will join   department officials for expenditure observation.

 TOI was the first to report on January 25 about the SEC’s decision to appoint expenditure observers for the first time in the history of municipal elections. The SEC had appointed six officials of Income Tax Officer (ITO) rank as expenditure observer for the   (NMC) elections. They were appointed to monitor expenditure of candidates.
 
 As it is a pilot project, the six expenditure observers — SP Meshram, Asif Gani, SC Nimodia from Nagpur, J Naresh Kumar from Wardha, RS Wakodikar from Yavatmal and Amit Kumar Chandrapur — will look after one ward each. They have selected one ward in each of six assembly constituencies.
 
 The six wards selected for observation are witnessing contests from bigwig candidates. The six wards include ward no. 18 of Central Nagpur from where Datke, standing committee chairman Sudhir Raut, Congress’ Bunty Shelke will be contesting.
 
 Ward no 37 from South-West Nagpur has Thakre, Congress city president Thakre, BJP’s Dilip Diwe, younger brother of Purti managing director Sudhir Diwe in the fray.
 
 Ward no. 31 will see clash between deputy mayor Satish Holey from BJP and Congress’ Prashant Dhawad. Dr Ravindra Bhoyar, Yogesh Tiwari and Sujata Kombade will also contest from this ward.
 
 Ward no. 1 has been selected from North Nagpur from where some prominent persons like Vicky Kukreja (BJP), Vedprakash Arya (NCP) and Suresh Jagyasi (Congress) will battle it out.
 
 West Nagpur’s ward is no 18 will have BJP MLC Parinay Fuke’s wife Parineeta and NCP MLC Prakash Gajbhiye’s spouse Sujata contesting.
 
 From East Nagpur, Ward no 23 has been selected. Chairman of city transport committee Narendra Borkar of BJP, NCP’s sitting corporator Duneshwar Pethe and others are in the fray from this ward.
 
 The officials of Sales Tax department will join as assistant expenditure observers. Six persons from finance department are posted under expenditure observers. These six teams will report to municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar and an income tax commissioner, who has been appointed specially for 10 municipal corporations witnessing elections.
 
 
