CHANDIGARH: The opposition parties on Wednesday blamed the ruling BJP for its failure to deal with   in  . The third day of the state assembly budget session witnessed heated arguments over the stir adjournment motion.

 The INLD staged a symbolic walkout as chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar sought support from all parties and gave a detailed account of measures taken by the state government in dealing with the   issue.
 
 Independent legislator Jai Parkash, former speaker Raghbir Kadian ( ) and leader of opposition Abhay Chautala (INLD) asked the government to set up a panel of MLAs for a direct dialogue with the Jat leaders. “This is a political issue, hence, public representatives too should deal with the agitators so that an amicable solution can be worked out,” said Kadian. 
 
 He also alleged misrepresentation of facts and concealment of certain information by government while filing short affidavits in the Supreme Court while contesting Haryana’s claim of justifying the special backward class and OBC quota for Jats in the central list. “The case would not have fallen through if the Haryana government had produced the multiple page affidavit prepared during the Congress regime. Instead, they gave a single-page statement,” said Kadian, who was seconded by former chief minister   Hooda.
 
 Kadian also asked the government to honour its commitment for implementation of the seven-point programme agreed upon with Jat leaders during their meeting with Union home minister Rajnath Singh.
 
 Chautala flayed the government and Khattar, demanding an explanation for delay in controlling law and order situation and failure to protect a minister’s house and the residences of MLAs Jasbir Singh and Geeta Bhukkal.
 
 Speaker Kanwar Pal Gujjar warned the MLAs against making any objectionable comment during the discussion and urged them to not to take up any issue which was pending in the court.
 
 The two-hour discussion saw heated arguments between Abhimanyu, Congress MLA Bhukkal and INLD legislator Parminder Dhull. Kalayat MLA Jai Parkash accused BJP of reviving the Jat stir issue during the election rallies.
 
 
