PATNA: Three days after his mother and former CM   asserted that people of Bihar wanted to see him as the chief minister, triggering speculation about change of guard in Bihar, Deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Sunday himself came forward to clear the air over raging controversy. Refuting speculations in political circles, Tejashwi categorically said his uncle Nitish Kumar would continue as CM.

 “Hamare Chacha CM hain, CM rahe hain, aur aage bhi rahenge (Our uncle is CM. He was the CM and he will continue as the CM),” Tejashwi said while addressing a socio-political function organised to celebrate the birth anniversary of   at the SK Memorial hall here.
 
 Nitish Kumar and two other ministers of his cabinet—Alok Kumar Mehta and Shiv Chandra Ram (both from the  )-- were on the dais when Tejashwi made the clarification.
 
 He also said that the RJD boss Lalu Prasad had categorically stated during the 2015 assembly polls that Nitish Kumar would be CM even if the JD (U) bags less seats than the RJD in the state elections.
 
 “Some people get carried away in sentiments,” Tejashwi, the younger son of Lalu-Rabri, said without taking name of any persons. He was apparently referring to his mother’s Thursday statement in which she said people of Bihar wanted to see Tejashwi as CM.
 
 In a bid to put water on the raging controversy, the deputy CM further said some people were making all-out efforts to cause conflicts among three allies of the Grand Alliance by issuing baseless statements. “Lekin, Hum chadane wale nahi hain (But, I am not going to be carried away by their attempts),” he said. 
 
 Earlier on Friday, Rabri and Lalu both came out with clarification over Rabri’s Thursday statement and said Nitish Kumar would continue as CM. Reacting over his wife’s statement, Lalu had on Friday said, “Koi Aaapa-dhapi nahin hai yehan, CM post ke liye. Samay Sab Tay Kar Dega (There is no hurry for the post of CM in the grand alliance. Time will decide everything).”
 
 Lalu had also said that the present government under lesdeship of Nitish was doing well and there was no need of any reshuffle in it. 
 
