He started twice and stopped as many times, never ran an ultra-marathon but went on to finish back-to-back marathons that too at a high altitude in   to come in the reckoning of running enthusiasts of the city. Meet computer tutor  , 30, who once wanted to join the   and serve the nation but instead got inspired by professional Kenyan runners and became passionate about running. He is now exploring new avenues with his strong legs.

 At the World’s Highest   in Ladakh last week, Choukse created a record for himself by covering 114km in 16 hours in the back-to-back marathons in 2 days. Excerpts from an interview...
 
 
 
 
 A. Like any kid, I too used to participate in all running activities in school — DHS Hindi Medium School in  . Mostly, I used to walk or run to school from home and sometimes to impress my father I used to walk as if I am at a parade. I used to love the way army men march.
 
 
 
 
 A. Since I finished fifth in the cross country, I was eager to do well and started participating in small races in Chhindwara. The longest that I ran in school days was a 15km race. After matriculation, I stopped running as I had to fend for myself and family.
 
 
 
 
 A. I was a school topper in science and participated at state level exhibitions too. I have won medals at the zone, state levels. At home, I used to repair TV, fridge and some appliances. At an exhibition, I met Vinay Tiwari of English medium school who triggered my interest in computer and internet. He told me how computer and internet works. Then I started surfing more on internet and generated interest in computers too. Soon, I assembled a PC for myself. Looking at the interest, my father (Nareshchandra Choukse) arranged two computers through the Pradhan Mantri Rojgar Yojana when I turned 18. With a loan of Rs50,000, we bought two computers and started an internet café with a computer institute. I started a teaching scheme offering people to learn internet in seven days. This helped me earn and I repaid the loan within a year.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 A. In a bid to earn more and on my uncle’s (Akhilesh Chandra Choukse) advise in February 2010, I shifted my business to Nagpur. Within two days, I was in a city where I never thought I would be. I came here with my two computers, a cycle and Rs10,000 that papa gave me. I started taking computer classes and also became a home tutor. ‘Learn internet, computer within seven days’ was how I started teaching people. One of my senior students, Ashok Naidu, offered me a room near his house in Mohan Nagar. At that time, I had some 40 students and till now I have taught around 1,500 students.
 
 
 
 
 A. After shifting to Mohan Nagar, the historic Kasturchand Park attracted me. I started running again here and nearby Civil Lines area. Soon, I saw some banners of Nagpur International Marathon and it had huge prize money to offer. Along with my younger brother, I decided to give it a shot and was hoping to win. Though I did not, I managed to complete the 42-km run six years after my last competitive race. It was my first full marathon.
 
 
 
 A. Not a single race is easy. One needs to prepare according to a race, work hard. I met some professional Kenyan athletes. They changed my idea of earning while running. We are still friends and I regularly take suggestions from them. After this, I only ran in 2015.
 
 
 
 
 A. They gave me a detailed schedule, inputs on how to improve speed, endurance. They told me about hill training, cross training, core exercises, skill development, cooling down and all such things. The most important thing I learnt from them was confidence. They were sure about the timing they would clock in the race.
 
 
 
 
 A. One of my students used to taunt me of my paunch. That got me running again. In 2015, I took part in the 21km Nagpur’s timed marathon which I completed in 1.50 hrs. Here, I met Peter, my friend from Kenya. A medal winner of the 2010 and 2015 Nagpur races, Peter inspired me to participate in more such marathons. After that, I started my regular training. I used to run on flyovers, at the KP ground and in Civil Lines. I have so far participated in around 25 races in two years. I took part in all the small races in Nagpur. In 2016, I took part in the Ladakh half marathon and then ran in the Mumbai Marathon. Though I haven’t won any prize money, there is great satisfaction in finishing a race.
 
 
 
 
 A. Some regular runners in city were talking about the Ladakh marathon, so I thought of giving it a shot. With my brother Ashish, I went on a road trip to Ladakh. On seeing ice for the first time, I started running on the hills. I think it helped me complete the half marathon there.
 
 
 
 
 A. When I finished the 21km Ladakh half marathon, everyone was talking about the 72km Ultra Khardung La marathon and I wanted to challenge myself by running it. After coming back, I contacted experienced runners who have finished or won medals in Khardung La. A couple of them (Abhishek Dutta and Dharmendra Kumar) helped me. They guided me on how to practice and many such things.
 
 
 
 
 A. My Kenyan friends gave me a weekly schedule of 250-300kms and this included cross and hill training. On Sundays, I was told to cover a long 50km stretch at one go. Their guidance helped me a lot. I used to start my training at 3am and was running till Saoner, Khaperkheda and nearby places. On an average, I ran 25km a day for the Khardung La Challenge. As a final practice session and specially to test my endurance level, I went home running all the way to Chhindwara (more than 125km) while my brother followed on his bike. On July 23, I covered 107km in 10.48 hours — Nagpur to Umranala.
 
 
 
 
 A. My brother Ashish and a friend Irfan Siddique. During the early training days in Leh they used to be on bike and support me.
 
 
 
 A. I want to participate in the 161km Kutch desert marathon. It is a qualifying event for the 200km Sahara Desert marathon that I wish to compete in 2018. Also, I hope to win my first medal in Kutch.
 
 
