PANAJI:  , Panaji, registered an FIR against state  , his wife Sandhya and son Milind in an alleged   harassment case, on Wednesday.   and his family members were questioned by the police and their statements recorded

 Suchitra Shirodkar accused Hoble and family of physically assaulting her daughter Sweta — wife of Milind Hoble — over dowry demands charges, which have been denied by the family members as politically motivated.
 
 The government recently appointed Anil Hoble as the chairman of the OBC corporation.
 
 Shirodkar in her police complaint alleged that Hoble and his family started making dowry demands even before the marriage could take place, in 2009, and that their demands continued till date.
 
 Around 2pm on Tuesday, Shirodkar said her husband received a call from Anil Hoble saying that they should come and collect their daughter. “We arrived at Hoble’s residence at 3pm and were shocked to see the state of our daughter. She had injuries on her body,” Shirodkar said in her complaint.
 
 “My daughter told us that she was severely assaulted and beaten,” the complaint said.
 
 Shirodkar alleged that Anil Hoble also tried to intimidate and assault her and other members of her family while her daughter was narrating the story of her torture.
 
 A case was registered against the trio under Sections 498 — A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (ii) (criminal intimidation) read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal code (IPC).
 
 Anil Hoble told reporters, “The police have taken my statement, but the complaint against me and my family is politically motivated. It is all fabricated and done at the behest of Aires (Rodrigues).” 
 
 Reacting to Anil Hoble’s allegations, Rodrigues said, “Anil Hoble’s futile attempt to deviously implicate me in his gory sins will take him no where. The parents of the victim rushed from Mumbai to rescue their traumatized daughter. As every lawyer has to do when called upon, I have only assisted the grieving family.” 
 
 Milind Hoble said that the complaint was done to malign their image.
 
 Anil Hoble denied that his family’s relationship with their daughter-in-law was strained. He also refuted allegations of her being ill-treated and assaulted.
 
 Asked about injury marks on her body, Hoble said, “I don’t know. I know nothing about it. Maybe its her parents who inflicted the injuries on her.” 
 
