Vishal Bhardwaj’s ' ' features a scene in which the actors sing the National Anthem. On Tuesday, the Supreme Court stated that the audience need not stand up when the   plays as a part of the narrative of a film, newsreel or documentary. While talking to BT, Vishal welcomed the move, saying, “Standing up for the National Anthem should be out of gratitude, not obligation.”

 He adds, “The National Anthem was played in cinema halls even in the 1970s but the practice stopped for a few years. And now, when it has started all over again, it’s considered odd. I wonder why we over-sensitise this. In the US, they wear T-shirts with American flag prints. It’s time we go beyond all this. When the anthem plays, I stand up out of respect, which is a personal thing. Even after this SC clarification, if people stand up when the anthem plays in the middle of a film's narrative, it's true nationalism. That will stem out of happiness and gratitude. People should have the freedom to decide. This is just the beginning.”
 
 In November 2016, the Supreme Court, responding to a PIL, had ordered cinema halls to play the anthem before screening a film, and every individual in the hall must stand up respectfully for as long as the anthem plays. The bench, comprising judges Dipak Misra and Amitava Roy, observed, "It is our 'sacred obligation' to stand and show respect to the national anthem and that doing so in the confines of a film theatre would 'instill a feeling within one a sense of committed patriotism and nationalism.'" However, the aforementioned order was modified by the Apex Court on Tuesday. 
 
 Bring up the National Anthem scene from 'Rangoon', and Vishal adds, “If people feel like standing up, they should. No one will be sued for that. A good film moves you emotionally and makes you do these things. If the film is bad, may be you won’t act the same way. When people watch a movie together in a theatre, there’s a collective consciousness that makes us laud the morals, no matter how immoral we may be otherwise. For instance, people who may be cheating on their lovers may not like a movie character who commits adultery. Aap chor ko bhi judge bana do toh woh sahi decision lega.” 
 
 When asked about the scene in ' ' in which the anthem plays, Vishal says, “I watched the film in a theatre. In the film, the anthem is played when the girl wins a medal. Ideally, why should I stand up in the middle of watching a film? But I did because everyone else did.” 
 
 
  
  
