KOLKATA: Last week, the police handed over a list of directives to nightclubs and pubs in the city for them to follow to prevent drunken driving at night. This came after model   died in a car crash on April 28. Actor  , who was driving the car, escaped with minor injuries but is believed to have been drunk while driving. Three weeks later, TOI went out for a reality check of the roads of Kolkata. 
 
 
 
 A three-hour search finally fructified when a few cops were seen using breathalyzers on a group of men on   Street-Camac street crossing. After five minutes, three youths were put into a taxi and taken to the   police station. But this was not a part of the regular drill. The story ran like this. A group of men got into a brawl. When the cops intervened, they heckled the men in uniform. The sergeant requisitioned more forces and a breathalyzer kit to check if the troublemakers were drunk. After an agonising wait of 10 minutes, a home guard arrived with a breathalyzer. After the men were tested and frisked at the police station, the cops left the spot with the kit. “We do not have adequate manpower to conduct tests at so many spots,” said an officer.
 
 
 Most of the party points are concentrated within two kilometres of Park Street but TOI did not spot a single checkpoint on Park Street, Russell Street, Theatre Road, AJC Bose Road and Sarat Bose Road. Bikers had a free run racing down roads swarming with cars ferrying families back home after dinner. None of the bikers wore helmets and in many instances there were more than two occupants on a bike.
 
 “We do not wear helmets during the day when there are cops on the roads. There is no question of wearing one at night,” said a gang of bikers on AJC Bose Road. There were some cops on Park Street but none of them seemed keen on hauling up the violators. “We are trying to keep the traffic moving,” said a sergeant in front of The Park (hotel).
 
 
 On Thursday, the police sent a list of around 30 nightclubs in Kolkata which use breathalysers on patrons who have been drinking in excess. The authorities are also expected to bar a guest from consumption of alcohol if they have crossed the limits. The party haunts are also required to keep a pool of drivers who can ferry guests home for a fee. But the managers of nightclubs and lounges said that it was easier said than done. “We have influential guests coming in. We can only request them to limit their drinking or take a cab back home lest they take offence. We cannot assert ourselves or it could lead to a big showdown,” said the manager of a newly-opened club.
 
 The clubs also feel that it is not viable for them to maintain a fleet of cars and a pool of drivers. But some of the places have made arrangements. Places like   on   and Myx on Park Street have accommodated app cab kiosks. “But we are not forcing any of our guests to use these services. It is up to their discretion to avail cabs. Guests often want to drive back on their own - we ask them to be careful,’' said Abhijeet Sen, manager of Afra Tafri. “We attended the meetings and the police never said these were mandatory. These are good suggestions and we are trying to implement them as much as possible,” said Ritesh Shrivastav of Myx.
 
