One of the biggest, and longest festivals that's celebrated with much fervour across the country is  . According to legends, the occasion marks the victory of Goddess Durga over the demon king Mahishasura, the victory of good over evil. The 10th day is celebrated as  . It's believed that Durga takes nine different forms -Sailaputri, Brahmacharini, Chandrakantha, Kushmanda, Skandamatha, Katyani, Kaalarathri, Mahagowri and Siddhidatri -on the nine days she waged war against Mahishahura.

 People attach great significance to each day of the Navarathri and worship the Goddess in these forms with kanya puja, special naivedyam (offering) and alankarams (decorations) at home. Women gather in huge numbers to recite Devi Mahatmyam and sing classical numbers in ragas dedicated for each of these days.
 
 While the celebrations are already on in full swing, with a couple of days already behind us, we give you a lowdown on how these special pujas are performed and which flowers, naivedyam and ragas are significant during Navarathri.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 On the first day of Navarathri, Durga is worshiped as Baala in the kanya puja or Maaheswari. 
 It is believed that Goddess slayed the demons Madhu and Kaidaba on this day.
 Jasmine and Vilvam are primarily used to perform the puja.
 Ven Pongal and Karamani Sundal are considered the perfect offerings for this day.
 It’s said that singing devotional numbers in Thodi raga will please the Goddess. 
 
 
 
 On the second day, the Goddess is worshiped as Kowmaari or Rajarajeswari. 
 People draw katta kolam in rice flour before they start the puja. 
 Jasmine and Tulsi are used for worship on the second day. 
 Puliyodarai, Puttu and mangoes are usually offered as naivedyam.
 Raga Kalyani has a special significance today. 
 
 
 
 Goddess is worshiped as Varali Ambigai or Vaaraahi on the third day. It’s considered auspicious to draw kolam either in rice flour (rose or lotus designs are recommended) or using flowers. 
 Shenbakam, Champangi and Marikozhunthu are ideal for performing the puja. 
 Sakkarai Pongal and Ellu Podi are offered as naivedyam.
 Songs in Kaambhodhi raga can be sung today. 
 
 
 
 Goddess is worshiped in the form of a Lakshmi. Padi kolam in rice flour or rangoli in the shape of steps (using atchatai — a mixture of rice, turmeric and ghee) is considered ideal. 
 Adorn the idol of the Goddess with wild turmeric (Kasthuri Manjal), apply scented oils and sprinkle rosewater. 
 It’s believed that the fragrance of Jaathi Malli and Rose please the Goddess. 
 Offer either Kadhamba Sadam, Curd Rice, Green Peas and Groundnut Sundal or Lemon Rice as naivedyam.
 Sing songs in Bhairavi raga in praise of the Goddess.
 
 
 
 On the fifth day of Navarathri, Goddess is worshiped in the form of Vaishnavi. You can decorate her in the form of Mohini as well. 
 Draw rangoli using Bengal gram flour; designs resembling birds are said to be ideal. 
 Pavazha Malii, Paarijaatham and Mullai are considered among the most auspicious ones for the puja today.
 Offer Ven Pongal, Vadagam, Payasam and Mocha Payir Sundal today.
 In praise of the Goddess, sing songs, especially the Panchamaavaranai Keerthanai, in raga Panthuvarali.
 
 
 
 Today, the Goddess is worshiped in the form of Indraani and the alankaram can be in the style of Sandi Devi. 
 Decorate the idol using red silk and adorn her with red stone-studded ornaments. While drawing kolam, write the name of the Goddess in Bengal gram flour.
 Flowers for the puja should be in red — Hibiscus and Kumkum flower are among the most preferred. You can also use Parijatham for the puja. 
 Offer Coconut Rice or Ellu Sadam today. 
 Neeelambari raga is considered auspicious today.
 
 
 It’s believed that Goddess appears as Annapoorani today. She is also worshiped as Saraswathi by many. 
 Use flowers to draw the kolam and adorn the Goddess with yellow sapphire ornaments. 
 Use Thazhampoo, Thumbai and Jasmine to perform the puja. 
 While Lemon Rice is ideal, you can also offer Vellai Sadam, Kalkandu Sadam or Sarkkarai Pongal today. 
 Chickpeas Sundal can also be considered for naivedyam.
 The raga for the day is Bilahari. 
 
 
 
 On this day, the Goddess is worshiped in the form of Narasimhi or Durga. 
 After slaying the demon, Rakthabeejan, she appears as karuna moorthy. 
 Use flowers to draw rangoli in lotus design. 
 Adorn the idol using emerald stones and green silk cloth. 
 The flowers for puja today include Rose, Sambangi and Magizham. 
 Offer Paal Saadam or Paayasaannam and Appam as naivedyam.
 It’s considered auspicious to sing songs in Punnagavarali today.
 
 
 
 The last day of Navarathri is for Goddess Chamundi. Decorate her with arrow, bow, ankusam and corn, in the form of Lalitha Parameshwari.
 Draw designs of these weapons using scented powders and decorate the Goddess with diamond jewellery.
 Today, performing puja using Lotus and Marikozhundu is considered auspicious. 
 You can offer Ellu Sadam, Konda Kadalai Sundal or Akkaravadisal as naivedyam.
 It’s considered auspicious to sing songs in raga Vasantha today.
 
 
 
 Today, Goddess takes the form of Devi Vijaya. While jasmine and rose can be used for the special puja, 
 Sarkkarai Pongal and other sweets can be offered as naivedyam
 
 
 
 Navarathri is celebrated not once, but five times a year — Vasanta Navarathri (from March-April), Ashadha Navarathri (June-July), Sharada Navarathri 
 (September-October), Paush Navarathri (December-January) and Maha Navarathri (January-February). 
 People in Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, Trinidad and United Kingdom also celebrate Navarathri with full 
 fervour. 
 While Navarathri is mainly a Hindu festival, it’s reportedly mentioned in Sikh literature, especially the Dasam Granth, and Jainism.
 
