VELLORE: Making a mockery of the 24x7 surveillance at the central prison here, inmates have been sneaking in prohibited items with impunity. 

 The latest seizure was made on Saturday evening. Prison department personnel led by Jailer C Murugesan seized two cell phones (Apple I phone and   basic model) and three SIM cards (airtel) and a charger from Murugan (alias) Sriharan, a life convict in Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. Murugan's cell was in the high-risk prisoners' block.
 
 Acting on a complaint from jail officer Murugesan, the   police registered a case against Murugan under section 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his/her duty) of IPC read with 48 (1) of the Tamil Nadu Prisoners Act and began  .
 
 "We conducted a surprise check in Murugan's cell and found the gadgets behind the photographs of deities," said a senior prison official and added that this was not the first time, they seized the gadgets that was prohibited inside the prison as per the TN Prisoners Manual.
 
 "We have asked for the call logs of the three numbers found in Murugan's cell. We will also investigate how he sourced it," said Inspector of Bagayam Station Arul Prasad. It cannot be ruled that he was in touch with his daughter Harithra who was in the UK and his in-laws, added the sources in the prison.
 
 This was not the first time that prison officials confiscated the banned gadgets from Murugan's cell, said sources. In the second week of September 2012, a 2 GB memory card, a mobile phone and charge were seized from him in a joint raid conducted by the prison department's vigilance wing and   Unit of   Investigation Unit (OCIU). 
 
 The prison officials had seized mobile phone from Murugan's wife and the country's longest serving woman prisoner, Nalini Sriharan. In April, 2010, a cell phone and SIM cards were seized from Nalini's cell in the   for Women in Vellore. The inquiry revealed that she had contacted foreign numbers and also sent several SMS to foreign numbers. Her advocate M Radhakrishnan, however, said, "The charges against Nalini were not proved." 
 
 The seizure of banned articles from the cells of Murugan and his wife may act against them in the event of the courts granting their premature release.
 
  "It will stand in his way of premature release on the grounds of violating the prison manual," Radhakrishnan said.
 
