BENGALURU: Twenty-six seats under the government merit quota at   (KMC),   have been transferred to private management paid quota, according to the medical seat matrix published by the   (KEA) on its website. 

 Karan J, aspiri ng for a medical seat at KMC, Manipal, let out a huge sigh of relief when he secured an all-India rank of 790 in NEET. Hopeful that he would make the cut through a merit seat in the college, Karan was stunned when the KEA seat matrix was put up on Wednesday evening. The 26 seats of the college which were supposed to be held for Karnataka students under merit category were instead listed as 'Private' seats. 
 
  " The institution has not confirmed why the change was made. My son has secured a good rank and I hope d he would get a merit seat. I can't afford a private seat," said Karan's father. Nilima J, the parent of another aspiring candidate, said: "It seems there isn't any value for merit. Shifting 26 seats from government to private quota is a massive setback for aspiring candidates who have worked so hard and scored well to get a government seat." 
 
   , director, medical education, told TOI, "Until last year, the department was in an MoU with the institution which was using the district hospital for various purposes. The 26 seats were given to the government as part of that MoU. However, this year, the MoU was revoked. It was because of the intervention of the department that the seats are now being given at a 50% concession rate even though they are under the "private seat" category." 
 
 
 
 
 Students aspiring to be doctors have had a rough time in the run-up to getting a seat in a medical college. Given the huge difference in fees for government merit seats and management quota seats, all of them most certainly hope for the former. The Karnataka Examination Authority has not made things any easier for them by not listing a large number of merit seats in the seat matrix. Though the medical education minister has assured students this glitch will be swiftly corrected, the authorities would have done well to organise things better and spare students and parents some avoidable stress.
 
