GURUGRAM: Every weekend through the month of April, women from all walks of life have been showing off their skills on the   field. 

 These are not, however, professional cricketers. They’re women who’ve always had the desire to smite a six over long on, send down a leg break (and take the outside edge), or just throw themselves around in the field with merry abandon. And they’ve been provided the opportunity to do so courtesy the All Ladies Cricket League, organised by the city’s Ryder Sports Academy and GuGu Events and Adventures, at Ajanta Public School. 
 
 The heat meant that all games were scheduled in the evenings, which made for a carnival-like atmosphere at the ground (while the players dueled for supremacy out in the middle). The league got under way on April 2 with a ‘friendly’ between players from the Police Commissioner’s office – led by sub-inspector Geeta Yadav – and an eleven from the city magistrate’s office.
 
 Empowerment was the theme of the All Ladies Cricket League. “Choosing sports as a medium, we wanted to provide such a platform to ladies and encourage them to come out and show their passion the same way their male counterparts do,” said Raj Hazarika, director, Ryder Sports Academy. The league comprised of Sharda Cricket Club (Gurgaon), Valley View Pink Power, Utsav Cricket Club and Salwan School Parents Forum (SPF). ‘Sharda’ was made up of women from the city’s Kashmiri community, while ‘Valley View’ included residents of the eponymous apartment complex in Gwalpahari.
 
 Team Utsav, meanwhile, embraced the kids and teachers of the Utsav Foundation, an NGO. “These girls who are being taught at the foundation had never ever dreamt of playing at such a level,” shared Ajay Pandita of the Kashyap Kashmir Sabha, Gurgaon. 
 
 Puja Mangal, of SPF Women Power, was in the thick of the action, the all-rounder excelling with both bat and ball, while special mention must be made of Poornima Koul, as agile a fielder as any on show, and responsible for some stunning catches. 
 
 For the record, Valley View Pink Power won a closely contested final by five runs, on Saturday night. Winning the toss and batting first, Valley View scored 98 for 2 in their 15 overs, in response to which SPF Women Power totalled 93 all out in 14.3 overs. 
 
 
