AHMEDABAD:   has advised the police to act like guardians and protectors, and not predators on lovebirds who are from different religions.

 A bench of Justice Abhilasha Kumari and Justice A J Shastri frowned upon the police authorities of   district for taking side of one community and targeting the boy and his family. The bench was “quite disturbed” at knowing that the boy’s family was targeted and the house was vandalized even after the high court ordered protection for them.
 
 The police officials separated the couple forcibly and send the girl to women shelter home at the behest of her family members and neighbours. This led the judges to say, “Police should act as guardians and protectors, not as predators.”
 
 The case pertains to   village near  , where a Muslim boy and a Hindu girl, who is studying in 4th year of physiotherapy, decided to get married amid strong objection from the girl’s family and neighbours. When they applied for registration of their marriage, communal tension spread in the village. The couple went into hiding. The youth’s house was vandalized and his family was forced to leave the village.
 
 A few days later, before the couple could get their marriage registered, police hunted them down and separated them from each other. The girl was confined in a women shelter home by police. The youth approached the   and sought police protection for his family. Despite the HC order for police protection, villagers attacked the family.
 
 Local police even picked the youth’s brother, tied him with a neem tree and beat him severely. This came to the notice of the high court when the youth filed a habeas corpus petition to free the girl so that they could get married. The girl told the court that she would marry the Muslim boy and requested the court to protect them and the boy’s family from the wrath of villagers as well as expressed apprehension of reprisal from police because the police officials were exposed before the court.
 
 The court ordered Kheda district SP to ensure protection for the couple and the youth’s family. The HC sent the couple back to the boy’s house under police protection, but ordered local police inspector to stay away from them. Instead, the HC asked Sola police to escort the couple.
 
 
