AURANGABAD: While the horrific incident of rape of a girl from tribal school in 
  district is still afresh, yet another case of alleged   has surfaced in a government-aided   in Maharashtra's   district, with a group of young girls mostly belonging to families of sugarcane harvesters claiming to be the victims.
 
 The girls from the school, located in Shirur taluka of the district, around 150 kilometre from here, have accused a male teacher of making them forcefully take bath naked in open and making sexual advances during night, besides levelling other serious charges.
  
 While the sexual abuse was being committed for the last five months, the matter came to light only a few days ago when one of the victims broke her silence on the matter by writing a letter to an advocacy group.
  
 Lek Ladki Abhiyan founder Varsha Deshpande said, "The letter narrated the details about the sexual abuse committed by the male teacher and we visited the school without wasting time taking serious note of it. Senior government officials from the social welfare department also accompanied us in our visit, during which we asked the affected girls to share their experiences without any fear. The girls echoed similar experiences of sexual abuse that were mentioned in the letter."
  
 Assistant commissioner with the social welfare department (Beed) Ravindra Shinde said the school management has suspended the accused teacher.
  
 “The inquiry at our level is still in progress and we will serve a show-cause notice to the school management once it is over. We also prevailed upon the school management for lodging a police complaint in the matter,” he said.
  
 The Shirur police have registered an offence under the stringent Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act 2012 and have also invoked IPC 354 (A) (Sexual harassment).
  
  The accused teacher has been declared an absconder by the police.
  
 The incident has also brought to the notice alleged ill management of a section of aided residential schools in the region which have been operating without female wardens among other blatant violations, Deshpande alleged.
 
