Over the past few months, Gurgaon has stepped up its efforts to prevent minors from smoking or using other   products. In the last eight months, 2,302 challans have been issued in Gurgaon to those violating the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (COTPA). The data was released by  , the   commissioner, at a recent event on tobacco-free Haryana. 

 The Gurgaon Police also recently registered the state’s first case ( and the country’s second) under Section 77 of the Juvenile Justice (JJ) Act against a store owner, who was arrested for allegedly aiding a minor to sell tobacco products and cigarettes. The Act, amended last year, aims to curb tobacco use among minors, and prosecutes adults who aid them. It prescribes strict punishment for anyone who gives or causes to give tobacco products to children – rigorous imprisonment for up to 7 years and fine up to Rs1 lakh. 
 
 
  
  
 
  After the recent arrest and Rs 1 lakh fine, vendors selling tobacco products in Gurgaon are a scared lot. They say that there is no way for them to know if the customer is a minor and that parents should also be held responsible if minors are caught smoking.
 
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
  
 
 A store owner in Sector 56 tells us, "A few vendors in our area were fined for selling cigarettes to minors, but a fine of Rs1 lakh is unimaginable! Before the recent arrest, I didn’t even know that there was such a law. Now, I am being very careful about who I sell tobacco products to."
 
  After the arrest, shopkeepers and vendors have started turning away school students. A vendor in   says, "I have refused to sell cigarettes to many students. But they get abusive and argue a lot when we refuse. The standard answer is, 'Paise de raha hoon na?' Now I have started replying ki, Rs10 nahin, ek lakh de do. Jab police pakdegi toh main unko de doonga.' They argue and leave. Agar woh school uniform mein hote hain toh pata chal jata hai ki minor hai. If they are not in uniform, then we give them the cigarette. Ab ID toh nahin maang sakte hain na cigarette bechne ke pehle?"
 
 
 
 All the vendors we spoke to said that they are being extra cautious but parents should also be held responsible if minors are caught smoking. A vendor in Sector 54 says, "I used to have my shop near a school in this area, but now I have moved from there. Par agar main nahin bechunga toh koi aur bechega. It doesn’t matter to the customer who is selling the products. Jise chahiye woh jugaad kar lega."
 
  Another vendor in Sadar Bazar area says, "When they are not in school uniforms, how are we supposed to know if they are minors or not? Last year, I had put up a notice saying that I don’t sell cigarettes to minors. But after two days, somebody tore it off. It’s unfair to challan just the tobacco sellers. Parents should also be challaned for their kids’ mistakes."
 
  
 
 The vendors told us that after the arrest, they don’t allow those in school uniforms to smoke outside their shops. A vendor in Sector 29 tells us, "You won’t spot groups of school boys in front of kiosks selling cigarettes now. But if we don’t sell cigarettes to them, they get it home delivered from shops. We cannot be solely responsible for implementing these laws. Ask any shopkeeper ki kitni home delivery hoti hai cigarettes ki and that will give you the real picture." The shopkeepers maintain on the record that only adults opt for home delivery.
 
 
 
