Many   stars commented on the banning of jallikattu in the state, recently. Some of these comments, however, were trolled on social media, for, they did not go down well with their young fans. However, this isn't the first time celebrities have faced the ire of the janta for making their opinions public, for, when it comes to Tamil pride and sentiments, we're a touchy lot, after all. Which is why, in the past, stars have had to face the heat following some comment or other by them, on issues of public interest' 

 
 The actress, who is known for her compassion for animals, inadvertently got into trouble due to her association with PETA, the organisation instrumental in getting a ban on jallikattu. Though she never made any comments against conducting the sport, she was dragged into the controversy. Trisha finally decided to clear her stand through Twitter and criticised the online trollers for foul-mouthing her without knowing facts. Unfortunately, those who were in support of the sport were in no mood to listen to her, and made things worse, despite senior actors like Kamal Haasan, Raadhika Sarathkumar and others, expressing their solidarity. A tweet, which appeared later on her timeline, announcing her support to PETA, according to her, happened without her knowledge. She alleged that her Twitter account had been hacked, and hence, deactivated it.
 
 
 A video of the actor saying, 'I'm a law-abiding citizen. The law will take its own course', when asked about his stand on jallikattu, a few months ago, has been doing the rounds for some time. This triggered a fuss among the social media users ' they posed several queries to him, asking him what his issue was in supporting a tradition which has been in practise for several centuries.   later tweeted that he is very much in support of conducting the sport, and that he has plans to initiate it in many places. However, his riposte came a little late, as the online jallikattu enthusiasts refused to take his words at face value. He, too, had to quit Twitter.
 
 
 The actor, who often posts jovial and sarcastic comments on his Twitter account, is considered to be someone who maintains a good rapport with almost everyone. Call it his bad luck or wrong timing, he, for sure, would have never expected the 'roast' when he tweeted, 'What is jallikattu?' on his account. What followed was a series of replies condemning his 'insensitive joke'. However, the star remained undeterred and a few days later, there was an announcement of his upcoming film, Sandanadevan, in which he will be seen as a jallikattu participant. But even that couldn't rescue him from being roasted further.
 
 
 The actress was temple-idol stuff till she made a highly controversial statement over a decade ago, when she commented that she was in favour of pre-marital sex. The statement was considered a mockery of Tamil culture, and several political outfits, religious organisations and individuals came out strongly against her. The same people who built a temple termed her comments unacceptable and insensitive. A few years later, she was in trouble again when a picture of hers wearing footwear while seated close to a Goddess' idol went viral' an outraged Hindu Munnani warned her of dire consequences.
 
 
 The actress was the toast of the town in Kollywood after she paired opposite Superstar   in the blockbuster, Sivaji. On the silver jubilee function (175th day) of the film which was held in the city, she was seen in a stylish mini skirt with a low-cut top, which, surprisingly didn't go down well with many. A political outfit, Hindu Makkal Katchi, filed a complaint against her, objecting to the outfit she wore, which according to them, disrespected Hindu culture! 
 
 
 A picture of the actor wearing a shirt which had PETA on it went viral on social media. But, before a huge damage was done, many started clarifying that it was a morphed image. Luckily, didn't have to face the ire like his contemporaries in the industry.   was quick to clarify!
 
 
