SURAT: The visit of GST Council’s sectoral committee co-convener   in the city on Wednesday has failed to impress upon the leaders of diamond and textile sectors. 

 Despite a series of representations by players of both the sectors to the central government and the GST Council over demands and challenges in implementation of GST, Garg refrained from giving any assurance on resolving the issues.
 
 While the diamond and textile sectors — the two key industrial sectors driving the economy of Surat — are puffed over implementation of GST, the central government deputed Garg to gather sense over the prevailing situation in both the sectors on Wednesday.
 
 Garg said, “We are examining GST rate structure issue faced by the sectors. Uniform rate structure is difficult. We are also working on technical problems in GST portal. Also, the council is thinking positively on refund of input tax credit (ITC) after October 10.”
 
 A meeting of the textile industry leaders from the power loom sector, textile dyeing and printing mills, traders etc was organized at the Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) to discuss the problems and challenges faced by the trade on GST. 
 
 Federation of Indian Art Silk Weaving Industry (FIASWI) represented a slew of demands for the textile sector for effective implementation of GST. 
 
 The demands included opening stock credit on MMF and fabrics, imposing additional non-modvatable taxes on fabrics imported from China and other countries, level playing field for MSME and integrated units under GST regime. 
 
 Removal of differential or inverted duty structure to increase export through merchant exporter, GST credit on machinery for textiles, non-clarity on income tax applicability on non-refundable accumulated ITC and the exemption range for e-way bill to be extended up to 50 km and others. 
 
 On the other hand, Gems and   (GJEPC) raised issues concerning the trade, including the supply of diamonds, from a branch in Surat to the same branch in Mumbai and liable for 3% GST rate. 
 
 
