COIMBATORE: More than 1,600 workers of various political outfits staged a   here on Sunday morning against the   to construct six check dams across  . They raised slogans against the union government for not intervening in the issue and lambasted the state government for not taking any steps to stop Kerala’s move.

 Organised by the joint action committee against check dams across Bhavani river, the road roko at Ettimadai on Coimbatore-Palakkad Road saw participation of members of DMK, Congress, Tamil Maanila Congress, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, SDPI, Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi, Kongunadu Jananayaka Katchi, Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam, Gandhiya Makkal Iyakkam, Revolutionary Youth Front and various traders’ and farmers’ associations.
 
 DMK state deputy general secretary Subbulakshmi Jagadeesan took a dig at both the state and union governments for their inaction to stop the   construction work. “If we come to power, we will divert the Bhavani river from where it originates in the Nilgiris district and teach a lesson to the  ,” said Subbulakshmi Jagadeesan.
 
 Kerala, she said, had already constructed a check dam across Bhavani river at Thekkuvattai. “Now, it has commenced construction of second check dam at Manjakandi. It will affect the potable water supply and irrigation across Coimbatore, Tirupur and Erode districts,” the state DMK deputy general secretary said.
 
 Pointing out that AIADMK leaders only have time for fighting among themselves, Subbulakshmi said the ruling party hadn’t raised any objection to the union environment, forest and climate change ministry’s nod to the Kerala government for the construction of check dams across the Bhavani river. “The ministry should immediately cancel the permission, “she added.
 
 TPDK general secretary K Ramakrishnan, meanwhile, said the Kerala government was trying to make the best use of political instability in Tamil Nadu. “The state’s political scenario is unstable and Kerala has selected this time to construct check dams across the Bhavani river. If the Kerala government did not stop the construction work, we will divert the water by constructing a dam at its origin in Nilgiris. We will raise funds from the public to construct the dam,” Ramakrishnan said.
 
 DMK youth wing secretary Vellakovil MP Saminathan, former DMK minister Pongalur Palanisamy, Manithaneya Makkal Katchi leader Jawahirullah and leaders of various political outfits participated in the protest.
 
 As the traffic came to a halt, the police intervened and detained and removed all the protestors. They were kept in various marriage halls and released in the evening.
 
