KOLKATA: If an   can be lodged alleging   negligence in case of the loss of a human life, why can’t the same be done when a   dies hours after being  ? Debapriya Ghosh Goswami put forward the logic when she went to lodge an FIR on Friday at the Netaji Nagar police station. 

 Seven days back, Debapriya had chanced upon this new-born kitten peeping out of a shopping bag that was left on DPP Road in Naktala. Some stray dogs were about to pounce on the kitten when Debapriya rescued it. She named him Oliver Ghosh and started feeding him diluted milk with a dropper.
 
 All was fine till on Thursday morning, when Debapriya spotted a cut mark on Oliver’s left ear. In the evening, she and her husband Samujjwal took Oliver to the Aarogya Pet Clinic on Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Road. “Dr Pori Talukdar checked Oliver and told us that its temperature was low. Hence, the injections (Decadan 0.5 ml and Conciplan 0.5 ml) were necessary. We were asked to keep it warm at home. Besides, she also prescribed other medicines. After the injections were administered, he started to droop,” Debapriya claimed.
 
 Oliver’s condition worsened after being brought home. “We could understand that it was losing consciousness. Oliver passed away at 2.30 in the morning. We fail to understand how a playful kitten who went for a regular check-up can die this way within hours of been given two injections,” she said.
 
 At the police station, the reaction of the cops was pleasantly surprising for Debapriya. “The cops were extremely cooperative,” the couple said.
 
 Meanwhile, Aarogya Pet Clinic owner Pranabesh Dutta told TOI that the doctor wasn’t at fault. “We can’t even guarantee the life of a human being. How can we guarantee the life of a kitten? However, no doctor wants to kill a pet. Our doctor didn’t prescribe any wrong medicine. The kitten’s temperature was below 90°F. While returning home, the kitten got drenched in the rain too. Our doctor had given a life-saving injection. The prescription can be shown to any other doctor to check if she has gone wrong. They are just making a mountain out of a molehill. Yes, we give gifts as incentives when puppies are brought to our clinic for check-up and vaccination. But there’s no gift for kittens,” Dutta said.
 
 The couple, however, insisted that Oliver didn’t get drenched on Thursday evening. “I have checked with another vet. The injection dosage was wrong. They are just making up stories to save themselves,” they argued.
 
 
