Religious rituals may mainly be considered superstitious, but science tells us that many of them are actually good for our health. Bangalore Times explores the science behind these traditions.

 
 
 Walking barefoot on natural surfaces builds a relationship between our bodies and electrons in the Earth, and helps in increasing antioxidants, reducing inflammation and improving sleep. One study, published in The Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine, found that earthing increases the surface charge of red blood cells, as a result of which the cells avoid clumping, decreasing blood viscosity and reducing the risk of heart diseases.
 
 
 
 Increases the flexibility of the spine, expands the chest and develops the leg and arm muscles, apart from increasing flexibility in the neck and shoulders. Apart from this, the regular namaskar for greeting people also has its health benefits, as the finger tips are connected to the pressure points of eyes, ears, and mind, and joining the tips together activates them, which helps us remember that person for a long time.
 
 
 
 It is a good exercise as it stretches the back, hamstring and arm muscles. This posture also works the erector-spinae muscles in the lower back.
 
  
  
 
 
 Waking up before sunrise for namaz equates to starting the day with light. Early morning sets the tone and energy for the entire day. The kneeling down position of namaz is a good exercise for the back. Also, during sajda, your brain gets more blood supply, leading to sharp memory. The ‘throat chakra’ is activated by turning the head towards the right and then the left shoulder in the closing of the prayer.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Normally, toe rings are worn on the second toe. A particular nerve from the second toe connects the uterus and passes to the heart. Wearing a toe ring on this finger strengthens the uterus. It keeps it healthy by regulating the blood flow to it and the menstrual cycle will be regularized. As silver is a good conductor, it also absorbs polar energies from the earth and passes it to the body.
 
 
 
 The ablutions five times a day clears the vital parts of the body from dust and grime, and ensures your skin is always refreshed and hydrated. The process relaxes the body. Ablution also helps in hydro massage of the biologically-activated spots of the body, and their thermal and physical stimulation, which recharges the organs of the body.
 
 
 
 This might be a good exercise, but, last year, the   stayed the 500-year-old ritual during the annual fest at the   temple in   district, as it involves people rolling on plantain leaves left by Brahmins after their meals.   state had argued that the rituals were against public order, morality and health, and resulted in injury to limbs.
 
 
 
 The spot between the eyebrows is considered a major nerve point in the body. Red kumkum between the brows is said to retain energy in the human body and control concentration. While applying kumkum, the points on the mid-brow region and Adnya-chakra are automatically pressed. This also facilitates the blood supply to the face muscles.
 
