JAIPUR: Kite flying is not only a fun but also a serious sport in the city. Perfection and precision in the art of flying kite can also take someone to the stature of an ustad just like as music. As the numbers of flying kite club are increasing, count of   (disciple) is also on the rise.

 “No one can become ustad quite easily. It is quite a difficult title to earn which requires lot of hard work. I was a shagird of Ustad Salaam from Tonk. As I’m an ustad now,Now, I have 28 shagirds. Ustad Salaam has one more disciple,  , in the city,”   said.
 
 Ustads pass on the art of kite flying to their shagirds, who later attains the stature of ustad. “Ek ustad, skagird ko patang udana, pech ladana and patang katna, sab sikhata hai (a ustad teaches his disciple the art of flying kite and how to snap others kites),” Abbasi said.
 
 A kite lover can become shagird of an ustad by presenting him some gifts and sweets. For this purpose, a simple function is organised. “When a shagird shows his talent in   and learn the art of kite flying from his ustad completely, he also become eligible for being ustad,” said Abbasi adding that a function is organised where ustads of the city are invited to take part in the ceremony of a shagird becoming ustad.
 
 The tradition is continuing for centuries. There are families who have ustads in each generation. Even erstwhile royal families awarded these uatads for mastering kite flying.
 
 Sixty-eight-year-old Ustad Latif became nostalgic when he talked about his  , who was the only naushera of the city at time when he was taking part in kite flying. “Naushera was the title given to a player who cut string of nine kites with his own kite before grounding it. No one has done it,” Latif said, while taking pride of being a disciple of a ustad, who achieved naushera. Latif said that he learnt the art of flying kites in kite flying competition.
 
 Ustads say that Chinese manjha is not allowed in kite flying competition. If a player uses Chinese manjha, the kite flying association imposed ban on the player.
 
