KOLKATA:   accused   on Tuesday claimed she isn’t ‘Madam Rose Valley’ even as   inched closer to answers to the mystery. 

 According to sources, ‘Madam Rose Valley’ may have received Rs 15 crore of   funds which is now under Enforcement Directorate-CBI scanner for alleged money laundering. The police have seized nearly 30 hard discs which they believe can lead them to her. 
 
 Denying any knowledge of the Rs 15 crore that was allegedly deposited in her account, Subhra claimed she is yet to be questioned by the cops about it. “If there was any bank transaction, cops would have taken me into custody by now. They have not even showed me the CCTV footage so far,” she said.
 
 Subhra says she took a consultant’s job at her husband’s company Adrija Gold and Diamond two months ago after she got permission from both   and ED. Subhra has also claimed the money which was traced to the   file never belonged to her. 
 
 “I had to go through a lot of hardship after my husband Gautam Kundu got arrested. We had no funds to run the day-to-day expenses as the accounts were attached. After I approached CBI and ED officials, they allowed me to work with the Adrija company as a consultant,” said Kundu.
 
 “I have submitted my appointment letter of the company with the agencies. I have also informed them I’m being paid Rs 75,000 per month,” Subhra said. “I do not have any other source of income. If the law enforcing agencies feel it is inappropriate, I will have to resign from there,” she said.
 
 Subhra, who also holds a diploma in designing, helps them in planning the layout of the stores, jewellery designing and marketing the product. 
 
 Subhra has lodged a complaint with the Jadavpur police after receiving a threat letter. “We have already spotted the culprit. He stays in the Jadavpur area and was a driver with the Rose Valley group. But we are yet to know why he has done that,” said Vishal Garg, Joint CP (crime), Kolkata. While police have not made much headway in the case in which additional director of ED   had allegedly guided Subhra in laundering money, sources said they are interrogating some people linked to the case. 
 
 
