TRICHY: With recurring   breathing down his neck, 30-year-old S Kalaiselvan of   village in   district has been struggling to reap success in farming on his seven acres of fertile land. Finally, he abandoned paddy cultivation, but for a good reason. With failures teaching him lessons, Kalaiselvan, instead of relying on paddy crop to make ends meet, cultivated more than eight varieties of crops by adhering to mixed cropping system. To his surprise, it has fetched him an eight-fold surge in net income which includes meeting the food requirements of his family.

 A graduate in BSc (Physics) and an organic by profession for more than half-a-decade, Kalaiselvan has been cultivating paddy on seven acres supported by an open well for irrigation. But the young   failed to get lucrative returns. Realising that the mono-cropping system of paddy cultivation has become increasingly risky due to failing monsoons, he decided to change the cultivation pattern in early 2017 by experimenting with mixed cropping system. 
 
 “I took less than an acre of my land to experiment mixed cropping cultivation. Groundnut was taken as the major crop inter-cropped with pulses like red gram, cowpea, and mung dal in the field. Small onion (shallot) was also cultivated on the irrigation bunds. To avoid cattle from feeding on the cultivated pulses, sesame crop was grown around the standing crops to act as fence since cattle would not consume the crop owing to its sticky nature,” Kalaiselvan told TOI.
 
 A couple of months after the attempt, he found that the weed growth was suppressed in the mixed cropping system due to multiple cultivation occupying more space, thus resulting in the reduction of farm labour required for weeding. As Kalaiselvan found available space to cultivate other crops, he introduced cotton too. “In mono cropping system, only paddy can be harvested for the family and other food items had to be sourced from outside. On the other hand, the mixed cropping system contributed food products such as pulses, small onions and oil extracted from groundnut and sesame for the family needs,” Kalaiselvan adds.
 
 Besides the financial gain, the problem with pest was also said to be contained in mixed cropping system. “In mixed cropping, if one crop fails, the loss can be compensated with other crops. But such assurance and risk reduction component are missing in the mono-cropping system,” K Suresh Kanna, deputy director of  , an organisation promoting organic farming, said. With this success, Kalaiselvan said that he has been planning to extend some more areas to mixed cropping method and also attract more farmers to it.
 
