One small incident or story can change your life, or at least your attitude towards life, believes  . This  , emcee,   turned technician and filmmaker is convinced that if experiencing or even listening to an inspirational story can change his life, it is something that should reach out to as many others as is possible. His web series   is the result of his attempt to do just that.
 Yes, web series seem to be the current trend in the Kannada film industry — what with so many creative Bengalureans opting to showcase their talents and reach out in the most financially viable way possible. While the whole wide web is waiting to consume all the entertainment it can lay its figure on, Vinayak’s series promise to bring in a new dimension to the way a person thinks in just those few minutes of each of his stories.
  “There are six stories in my web series, including one of my own. But each one comes under the broad purview of Joshelay because of the nature of the stories — each story inspires. Take for example the story of Jayanth — a swimmer who did not give up his dreams of being able to swim in spite of having no hands to help him glide through waters,” says Vinayak, who says this story is just the tip of the iceberg.
  Speaking of why he chose the few stories that he is currently shooting for, Vinayak tells us, “Life and experiences teach you so many things. Personally, I have been through my share of depression. But the decision to pick up, reinvent yourself and move on is something that is left entirely upto the individual. In that process, if I can do my bit to help inspire lives of so many such people who may be looking for as direction or some sign, I would consider my job done.”
  A rather young and team comprising of Raghav Ramaiah, Bharghav Shandilya, Varijashree Venugopal, Dheerendra Doss, Santosh Radhakrishna and RJ Pradeepa, help complete Vinayak’s mission. “While we are raising money for this venture through sponsors, a lot of these guys who make up the team are supporting the cause because they believe in it too,” says Vinayak. The team recently released the teaser of the web series, shooting is currently in progress.
