Panaji: The Union ministry of civil aviation has constituted a three-member committee to look into the accident involving Jet Airways flight 9W 2374, which took place on December 27, 2016, at Goa International Airport, Dabolim. The committee, which has been asked to submit a report within six months, is tasked to find out the cause behind the incident. “It appears to the central government that it is expedient to investigate and determine the causes and contributory factors leading to the accident and make recommendations to avoid recurrence of such accidents in the future,” joint secretary, ministry of civil aviation Satyendra Kumar Mishra, said. The Boeing 737-800 skidded off the Goa airport runway while taking off in the wee hours, but the 161 passengers and crew on board escaped with minor injuries. The aircraft sustained significant damage and remains grounded at Goa International Airport, where a team of Boeing engineers are making an attempt to get the aircraft air-worthy again. The aircraft accident investigation bureau (AAIB) inquiry committee will be headed by deputy director for air safety with the directorate of air safety, R S Passi, who will investigate the incident. The other members of the committee include assistant director, AAIB, Jasbir Singh Largha, and flight operation inspector captain Nitin Anand. The formal inquiry comes after a team of DGCA and AAIB officials waded through the data from the flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder. The crew’s statements have also been recorded, sources said. There were 154 passengers and seven crew members on board when the Jet Airways aircraft had reportedly spun 360 degrees before veering off the runway.  The incident damaged the landing gear of the aircraft and it came to rest on its nose about 250-300m away from the runway. According to the notification, the committee will also take the assistance of other experts/agencies whenever required. Around 15 passengers suffered “minor” injuries during the evacuation process. The Indian Navy, which controls the airport and operates the air traffic control service, shut down the runway for flight operations for nearly five hours.