GALLE: In a debatable move, India allowed Sri Lanka to perhaps stay for a bit longer, and certainly avoid an innings defeat, when they didn't enforce the follow on despite pocketing a massive 309-run first innings lead on Day Three in the first Test at the Galle International Stadium here.

 The decision, taken with an idea to rest the bowlers and allow the wicket to deteriorate further going into Days Four and Five, looked even more risky when the rain gods, a regular feature here, arrived with full force to halt play for 84 minutes in the afternoon, with India at 56 for two. When play resumed, the visitors at least ended up making a few gains with the bat to somewhat justify their call.
 
 While   (caught at point off Dilruwan Perera) and   (out to a brilliant catch at leg gully by Kusal Mendis off Lahiru Kumara at the stroke of the rain break) failed to repeat their first innings heroics,   (81, 116b, 8x4) and skipper   (76 not out, 114b, 5x4) dug in, adding 133 in 178 balls for the third wicket, before Mukund was trapped lbw by Danushka Gunathilaka in the last over of the day.
 
 Sitting pretty at 189 for three in their second dig, India hold the aces as they're 498 runs ahead with enough time to bowl the 10-man Lankan team out in the final innings and take a 1-0 lead in the series.
 
 Like Dhawan, Mukund, who made his highest Test score, is also playing this game only because the regular openers are injured or ill. The 27-year-old has bounced back brilliantly after a poor jab outside the off stump resulted in his early dismissal in the first innings on Day One, by first effecting a superb run out and then pulling off atop-class catch. With the bat, he has chipped in with a timely half-century, which was his first in six years.
 
 It was the much-needed Kohli's return to form in Test cricket, though, which should please the Indian dressing room. After his double hundred against Bangladesh at Hyderabad in February, his scores have been 38, 0,13,12,15, 6, and 3. A shoulder injury didn't help his cause.
 
 After falling to a needless hook shot in the first innings, the 28-year-old looked to put all that behind by crashing the first ball he faced -a full toss from Lahiru Kumara - for four to the covers. Using his feet superbly to smother the spin of  , Kohli recorded his first fifty in eight innings, and crossed 1,000 overseas runs as a Test captain during the knock.
 
 On Saturday, he looks set to complete his 17th Test hundred, before India go for the kill with the ball.
 
 Earlier, India encountered a surprising obstacle in off-spinner Dilruwan Perera, who slammed an unbeaten 92 (132b, 10x4, 4x6) to keep the visitors in the field for slightly longer than what they'd have anticipated.
 
 Taking over after   (83, 130b, 11x4) departed to a well-set up dismissal by Ravindra Jadeja, who lured the batsman to smash a flighted delivery to Kohli at short cover, Perera used the long handle to good effect. He got a lucky reprieve on 38 after successfully reviewing an lbw decision against Jadeja. That was one of the few bright spots for the hosts on a day when they saw their makeshift captain Herath leave the field due to a finger injury which he suffered while trying to stop a Kohli drive at extra cover.
 
