If there is one word that can aptly describe this 23-year-old Hyderabadi, it would unanimously be “bullet train”. Why? Firstly because he is a fast bowler who can consistently cross the 140km/hr mark, and secondly he isn’t ready to compromise with his pace; come what may. And in the ongoing T20 league, the speedster has managed to impress everyone with his consistent performances by bagging six wickets in the five matches he has played for  . 

 “For me bowling is all about pace. The simple trick is to work on your line and length and continue hitting the deck hard,” says  , who has managed to live up to the expectations that came with his `2.60 crore-price tag this season which was almost 10 times his base price of `20 lakh. The youngster seems to have got his priorities clear. “I want to take mom and dad to Haj. There is nothing more important in this world than your parents. Money is not everything. For me the ultimate dream is to play for my country,” he says adding, “I think it’s very important to perform well in IPL. But it is only a means to an end and not an end in itself. Every Indian cricketer dreams of wearing the blue jersey and play for the country. And for that to happen one should keep going for strength to strength and such leagues play a big part in doing so.” 
 
  Well, the story of his rise to fame has all the makings of a blockbuster. Son of an auto rickshaw driver, Siraj comes from a humble background. He caught the eye of the selectors when he bagged 41 wickets in nine matches in the Ranji Trophy and helped Hyderabad storm into the knockout stages of the tournament for the first time in five years. “Recently, I watched MS Dhoni: The Untold Story. Uss film story billkul meri life ki tarah hain. Even I want to storm my way into the Indian team the way Dhoni did,” he says smiling.
 
 Just like most 23 year olds, when Siraj is not running in quick and bowling bouncers on the pitch, loves spending his free time watching movies and listening to music. “The soundtrack of Ae Dill Hain Mushkil is running on repeat mode on my phone,” says the cricketer who confesses to being a fan of   Fernandez and  . “I like Jacqueline and Deepika as they are the most beautiful women in the Hindi film industry now,” he says signing off.
 
