CHENNAI: Airports Authority of India (AAI) is planning to set up an MRO (maintenance, repair and overhaul) facility for planes in a 60-acre area on the left of the second runway and a modern fuel farm for refueling planes on 20 acres on the right. The state government has notified the land which does not have houses on it but is green wetland.

 A senior official of AAI said, “There are some empty patches of land that is available on either side of the second runway. We will set up hangars and an MRO which are essential for an airport to provide facilities for airlines to run mandatory checks and other maintenence."
 
 “This will help the airlines to attend to the repairs A maintenance, repair and overhaul facility will come up on the 60 acre land (left red circle) on the left of the second runway. A 20 acres area on the right of the runway (right red circle) to have an aviation turbine fuel farm to attend to the repairs and maintenance while the airport will be able to make some money. 
 
 The aviation regulator insists on certain mandatory annual checks after which airworthiness certificates will be issued to the aircraft. The MRO can be used for this work also, “ the official said.
 
  He said AAI was looking at reviving the MRO facility and Chennai has been selected because it is a major government-run airport in the country after Kolkata. 
 
 “There is a need for an MRO facility because airlines are purchasing more aircraft as the ministry of civil aviation is promoting the regional connectivity scheme called Udan.
 
  Indigo, Spicejet and   are bringing in more planes, especially 70-seater planes, to start services on the Udan routes."
 
 There were hangars for MRO at Mumbai, Delhi and Kolkata run by AAI specialising on different aircraft.But, the expertise was not given priority over the year.Now, Air India has a MRO facility in Hyderabad while other airlines sends their planes abroad for major checks.
 
 A fuel farm planned in 20acre on the right side of the second runway will help make the airport safer as fuel will be moved by underground pipelines. The four fuel companies which handle jet fuel will be given space and pipelines at the fuel farm.
 
