HYDERABAD: Soon, a refreshed version of the `common man' will appear in our daily newspapers and television sets.This was disclosed by  , daughter-in-law of the late cartoonist  , who was in the city on Thursday to participate in a memorial lecture organised in his honour.

 “In addition to two memorials, which will come up in Pune and Mumbai, we have already started work on an R K Laxman Cartooning Academy , which will have cartoonists mentored by Laxman himself. A new mascot for the `common man' has been created and the artists in the academy will also contribute cartoons to electronic and print media, to keep Laxman's wit and humour alive,“ said Uma Laxman who is also the director of the Pune-based R K Laxman foundation named R K   Rights (IPR) Management Pvt Ltd.
 
 Also present at the event organised by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) was governor E S L Narasimhan, who remembered Laxman as one of the greatest social reformers the country has seen so far.
 
 RK Laxman passed away in January 2016 at the age of 93.
 
 “Through his iconic `com mon man' caricature, he understood and portrayed the issues and troubles of the common man, for several decades.Behind all the wit and humour, all his cartoons had a sharp, underlying message that he wished to convey . With his humour, unique art of caricatures and consummate intelligence, he managed to raise important issues and portray them in a new light,“ the governor said.
 
 Titled `Cartoons and Indian Politics', the lecture was held at the   and Andhra Pradesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FTAPCCI) auditorium to commemorate the life and works of the legendary cartoonist, who used his iconic `common man' caricature to create satirical, political cartoons for many decades.
 
 While Narasimhan pointed to Laxman's cartoons regarding `corruption in schools and colleges', `the Mumbai monsoon deluge of 2005' and the `iron curtain' as some of his favourites, Uma Laxman shared how his last piece of work, on the ISRO's Mangalyaan mission was in fact, a tribute to his son  , who was always fond of space.
 
 “Long before the term Aam Aadmi was coined, R K Laxman managed to portray the troubles of the urban middle class through the common man, who represented the `mute millions' in India and the silent spectator of modern times,“ said Devendra Surana, chairman, Telangana State Council, FICCI.
 
