HYDERABAD: As the country observes the   on March 10, city doctors reveal that   coupled with obesity is causing   in pregnant women. Though   emerged as a major health problem in the last decade, it was only in 2016 that doctors decided to dedicate a special day to focus on the elevated blood sugar levels in women during pregnancy.

 Though this temporary or gestational diabetes recedes within a few months after delivery, it continues to stay as normal diabetes in some women. The incidence of gestational diabetes is increasing in Hyderabad with about 15 per cent of pregnant women reporting elevated levels of blood sugar. It eventually causes health complications in mother and child.
 
 The Diabetes in   (DPSI), whose brainchild is the National Gestational Diabetes Day, points out that gestatio nal diabetes mellitus is a “transient abnormality of glucose intolerance during pregnancy“. The DPSI, however, warns that women suffering from gestational diabetes are at “increased risk of future diabetes“.Children born to such women also carry the risk of diabetes in their adult life.
 
 According to Dr Manjula Anagani, head of MaxCure Suyosha Woman & Child Hospital, one of the contributing factors for gestational diabetes is endocrinal disorders like polycystic ovary syndrome. Other factors are obesity and sedentary lifestyle. “Pregnant women need to check their blood sugars every three months. If it turns out to be gestational diabetes, the pregnant woman needs to keep a watch on her weight. She should not put on more than seven or eight kilos,“ Dr Manjula observes.
 
 She recommends that pregnant women should also keep a check on her weight and blood sugar level after the delivery. This is because about 25 per cent of women diagnosed with gestational diabetes run the risk of sustaining the problem.
 
 Nutrition expert Dr Sri Latha suggests that those diagnosed with gestational diabetes should follow a strict diet regimen. “They should plan a strict split meal pattern with a two-hour gap,“ she points out, recommending replacement of carbohydrates with a protein diet and good amount of complex carbohydrates like whole grains and cereals.
 
 “A meal should be packed with large amount of vegetables and greens. Frequent healthy snacks like boiled grams and sprouts are suggested between the meals.They should also consume liquids like buttermilk. They should avoid simple sugars,“ adds Dr Latha.
 
 The DPSI in its guidelines recommends that in view of high prevalence of gestational diabetes in India, there should be compulsory screening for all pregnant women. It also calls for a team approach for comprehensive treatment of the problem. “The team should comprise obstetrician, diabetes physician, diabetes educator, dietitian, midwife and paediatrician,“ the DPSI suggests.
 
