MOHALI: The   (VB) of Punjab arrested three men in connection with the scam in which   of several   conducted by Punjab and Chandigarh were leaked.  , the kingpin, a resident of Lucknow, was arrested along with two associates, Anoop Kumar and Shiv Bahadur, the latter an employee of the government press in Delhi. 'Guruji' was the man who would inform candidates about questions and aid in cramming answers.

 The three were involved in leaking question papers meant for the recruitment of junior basic trained (JBT) teachers, trained graduate teachers (TGT), nursery training teachers (NTT), junior engineers (JE), assistant corporation engineers, assistant municipal engineers and sub-divisional engineers (SDE) in 2015.
 
 The   for which papers were leaked were held in January-February 2015. VB officials explained that the examinations were conducted in Panjab University , while question papers were printed in Delhi. At Delhi, agents of Guruji and two other men, Dinesh Yadav and Suresh Yadav, were posted to facilitate the question paper leak. Shiv Bahadur, the government press employee, was the one to aid the gang by leaking papers to Lucknow and New Delhi. The question papers were sold for a price ranging between Rs 10 lakh and Rs 40 lakh.
 
 Sources said the fraud was conducted through two modules -one run by Guruji in Lucknow and the other by Suresh Yadav in Najafgarh, Haryana. VB suspects that Suresh Yadav got in touch with candidates from Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to sell question papers of recruitment examinations conducted by Panjab University for the state government. 
 
 VB estimates that the kingpin had raised over Rs 12 crore from selling question papers. In November 2016, police arrested nine people in connec tion with the scam. Those arrested then had leaked papers of examinations held for recruitment of sub-divisional officers. 
 
 The exam had been conducted by Panjab University (PU). Guruji was also wanted after the leak of the recruitment examination paper for the local bodies and municipal corporations in Punjab, for ap pointment of civil engineers, sub-divisional engineers and other posts for which examinations were held on November 8, 2015 and November 15, 2015.
 
 More than 67,000 candidates took the test for 682 vacancies, including junior engineer, assistant corporation engineer, assistant municipal engineer and sub-divisional engineer.
 
