THANE: At a time when the elections to the municipal corporation in Thane is closing in, the   is struggling to find a voter-friendly face in Thane who has a mass appeal and can shoulder the poll campaign single-handedly.

 The absence of strong leader who can take on the Shiv Sena and silence the growing dissent and one-upmanship in the city BJP unit here, appears to be the big worry for the party leadership who has understood to have started poaching on its political rivals.
 
 The BJP commands a strong traditional voter base in old Thane and in recent years has gained immense popularity in the upscale working class enclaves here, but turns feeble before the strong-arm tactics of its ally.
 
 “Politics in Thane has been driven more by personalities and leaders such as Anand Dighe, Eknath Shinde of the Shiv Sena, Jitendra Awhad from NCP. The then BJP MLA from Thane, MD Joshi had an appeal among the traditional Hindutva voters in the lake city and there was stalwarts like   and Ram Kapse from Dombivli and Kalyan who commanded respect pan Thane. However, in recent years the party has been overshadowed by the Sena and lacks a strong leader,’’ a party insider said.
 
 The absence of a strong leader has resulted in drubbings for the BJP in the 2012 civic   where the party could barely secure eight seats while the Sena bagged a lions share of 53 seats.
 
 “The BJP strategy will be directed to cut to size the Sena and it could not hesitate to rope in members from its rival camp who can assure a victory in the ward. Presently, the elections in Thane would be supervised by minister of state for food and civil supplies Ravindra Chavan and MP   from Bhiwandi but it is all likelihood CM Devendra Fadnavis would be the decision-maker. As of now there is not much clarity on who is leading the pre-poll activities and the party seniors are looking at a face that could help lead the elections,” said a party activist.
 
 In the last few months several rival corporators including former Congress leader of house, Sanjay Ghadigaonkar, Bharat Chavan and   from the NCP among others have been inducted in the party. 
 
 Sources said the BJP senior leaders are apparently in talks with two senior functionaries of their rival party pursuing them with lure of better position and stature.
 
 Politics in Thane has been driven more by leaders such as Anand Dighe, Eknath Shinde of the Shiv Sena, Jitendra Awhad from NCP. The then BJP MLA from Thane, MD Joshi, had an appeal among the traditional Hindutva voters in the city. However, off late the party has been overshadowed by Sena and lacks a strong leader
 
 
