NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   is expected to flag off on Friday a direct train service between Varanasi and Vadodara, the two constituencies he won in the 2014 general elections before choosing to represent Varanasi in Parliament.
 
  The PM will launch the   on Friday, when he visits Varanasi on a two-day tour, senior government officials told ET. Railways minister   will be present in Vadodara that day while junior railway minister   is expected to be present in Surat, they said.
  
  At present, Sabarmati Express runs between Varanasi and Ahmedabad, with a stop at Vadodara, while a Mahamana Express runs from Varanasi to Delhi. There has long been a demand for a direct train between Varanasi and Vadodara. The Mahamana Express is a 'Made in India' superfast express train with plush interiors.
  
 
  Modi had contested from both Vadodara and Varanasi in 2014, winning the former seat by 5.7 lakh votes, beating Congress' Madhusudan Mistry, and the latter by 3.71 lakh votes, defeating AAP's  . He relinquished Vadodara seat, which was later won by BJP's RD Bhatt.
  
  The PM will also launch a 'Jal Ambulance' service and a 'Jal Shav Vahan Sewa' in Varanasi — the former will be boats with medical facilities operating in the Ganga to ferry the ill from one shore of the river to another. The latter will be a mortuary service boat to transport bodies for cremation on the ghats of the Ganga, officials said. They said the PM will attend a 'pashudhan mela' (animal fair) on Saturday in the Shahshanpur Farm in Varanasi which is known for rearing hundreds of indigenous breeds of cows and buffalos. The PM will cap his visit with a public meeting on Saturday where he will launch a number of new projects.
  
  A trade facilitation centre for weavers to display and sell their wares will be the first project to be unveiled by the PM upon his arrival in Varanasi on Friday, an official said, adding that the PM will also inaugurate a branch of the Utkarsh bank, which deals in micro finance. 
