CHENNAI: Chennaites who experienced a rather chaotic December now get a much needed break as renowned artists and international performers gear up to hit the stage and amp up the city's energy levels at   this week. 

 From melodious classical renditions to EDM and rock shows, chef wars and eating contests to wacky sports like muggle Quidditch, IIT-M's annual cultural fest `Saarang,' presented by The Times of India, is back this year in a new avatar completely cashless.
 
 From food stalls to ticket sales, visitors will have to whip sales, visitors will have to whip out their debit cards or resort to their online wallets and other digital modes to pay. Dean of Students   said IIT, being a government institute, was working to raise awareness about the government's drive to go digital and cashless. “Bank representatives on the campus will also explain to visitors how to go cashless," he said at IIT-M on Tuesday .
 
 Saarang, touted to be the largest student-run fest in the country, is on from January 4 to 8 with a new theme 'enchanted forest'. “We have a lot of memories tied up with the forest and we wanted to give a glimpse of that for students from outside and make them a part of it," said student secretary Shreyas Harish. The students hope to focus on the aspect of ambience in a way that a walk through the campus itself should give them a feel of the wooded area.
 
 To make up for the loss of green cover that took a hit dur green cover that took a hit during the December cyclone, the Saarang team will be planting 100 saplings on the campus.The fest this year boasts over 90 large scale competitive events, 200 informal shows, 14 lecture demonstrations, 6 professional shows and 7 world culture show acts, including graffiti, sand art and street dancing. Other than classical, choreo, EDM and rock shows, a feature is the spotlight lectures which in cludes a line-up of doyens like T M Krishna, Prachi Tehlan, Anirudh Ravichander, Shekhar Gupta, Siddharth and Gautam Menon, among others. New additions this time include a comedy show by Biswa Kalyan Rath, a gaming zone and a food fest.
 
 IIT-M director Bhaskar Ramamurthi said the aim of the fest from the institute's perspective is two-fold wherein students learn skills outside the classroom through the process of conceiving and executing the fest along with being exposed to a wide variety of talent. “IITs can also become self-contained and having students from outside is an opportunity for them to learn," he said.
 
