HYDERABAD:   last played for India in a Test match against New Zealand in Kolkata and in the ODI against England in Cuttack on Jan 19. And that he missed the recent hard-fought series against Australia, against whom he made a smashing 187 on debut at Mohali in 2013, rankled.

 “It's a good memory but I can't live on past laurels,“ he said as ToI caught up with him on Monday , as the   warmed up for their title defence in   X with the inaugural match here on Wednesday . “It was sad not to be in the Indian team because I have the ability to play international cricket. But having said that, I'm working hard, keeping my process strong and am enjoying my game.“ With 501 runs from 17 games in the last edition, Dhawan was one of the leading scorers for SRH last season along with skipper  . It's like two swords in one sheath ­ both left-handed and for whom attack is the best form of defence. They share a good rapport and feed off each other's success, though. “We're one of the most successful pairs in IPL, which is a big thing. We complement each other. Last year, David was the aggressor and that gave me time to get settled and play easily . At the same time, I enjoy playing aggressively ,“ Dhawan said.
 
 The 128 for India `B' against India A ` ' in their Deodhar Trophy match couldn't have come at a better time for the opener. “From the time I've been out of the Indian side, every tournament has been important. Even the one-day tournament I played for Delhi was very important. Unfortunately it didn't go the way I wanted it to, but now by the grace of god, things have gone my way . I hope to take the good form to a longer stretch.“ For a batsman with such attacking mindset, his poise in face of criticism is laudable. “I don't really focus on that energy (criticism). God has made a few people like that. Criticism actually gives me a kick, burns the fire in me. I try not to read comments and make sure I stay away from that because those who are talking about cricket don't know anything about cricket. I'm talking about fans for instance on Twitter. To criticise is the easiest thing to do. And the worse thing will be for me to read and feed that energy to myself. I don't do that.“
 
 Talking up the chances of SRH making a successful title defence, the elder statesman of the team was excited by his new teammates from Afghanistan. “It's a very good thing for cricket that Afghanistan boys have come into IPL and they've earned it,“ Dhawan said. “That shows there's a chance for players from other countries, countries that just started playing cricket, that they can make it to big leagues like IPL, Big Bash and other leagues.We're lucky to have that leg-spinner, I'm told no one's been able to read his googly . So that's an advantage for us,“ he added referring to Rashid Khan.
 
 Virat Kohli or not, the Royal Challengers Bangalore are a dangerous side, Dhawan reckoned, and can't be taken lightly . “We're looking forward to the first game. Of course Virat is the biggest player in their line-up. He's had an exceptional year. He's not playing against us, but still they have big guns in their side -Chris Gayle, AB de Villiers and Shane Watson. It's not good to underestimate opponents.They're a strong side. But we're on our toes actually to get started and start on a winning note.“
 
 
