MUMBAI: The   and the   (CoA) are losing sleep over a substantial sum, suggested to be in excess of Rs 800 crore, being held in an escrow account under the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court which pertains to the long drawn arbitration between the Board and its former   ( ) partners   ( ).

 An arbitration process has been on between the BCCI and the WSG for several years now over the former's objections over $80m facilitation fee that was paid by   (MSM) to the WSG with BCCI claiming they were the rightful claimants to any such fee. WSG had also gone to the court against the BCCI, citing wrongful termination of the contract back in 2010.
 
 Three individual arbitrators overseeing the matter have sent the BCCI several reminders, asking the latter's then office-bearers to come and testify but there has been no response so far.
 
 Recently, the CoA-looking into the matter - wrote to former BCCI president  , who was the secretary of the board at the time of terminating the contract with WSG, to come and testify. It is learned that "Srinivasan gave it a serious thought at first but later declined." A member of the CoA confirmed to TOI that the letter had been sent to Srinivasan but added that he did not have details about the reply received.
 
 Ironically, when Srinivasan was the BCCI secretary back in 2010, current ICC chairman,  , happened to be the president of the BCCI and it was under his supervision that the termination of the contract was carried out.
 
 When asked if the CoA would write to Manohar asking him to testify in the matter, one member said that "it is a very serious issue and will be discussed in our meeting in Hyderabad".
 
 What BCCI members find "odd" in this context is that the CoA found it prudent to ask Srinivasan to come and testify in the matter but did not find the need to write to Manohar at the same time. "Will Manohar come and testify in this matter? After all, it is no small sum. The arbitrators have already sent several reminders in this regard and time is running out," a senior functionary in Indian cricket said. In 2015, the   (ICA) had directed WSG to pay $27.7 million (Rs 183.1 cr), including interests, to MSM Satellite, Singapore (then a subsidiary of Sony Pictures), in connection with the dispute related to IPL media rights. WSG's parent company Lagardère Sports & Entertainment, which owns 70 per cent stake in the company, has acknowledged the ICA decision.
 
 Those tracking developments suggest that the BCCI has clearly lacked any kind of strategy in defending its actions and protect the money that rightfully belongs to the board.
 
 "If the matter is further delayed, BCCI will lose that money. But one has to see the bigger picture here. And that is, who does that money belong to?" a source in the know of things said.
 
