GURUGRAM: If, today, more young Indians are dreaming of space exploration – or helping pave the way to more of the same – the Indian Space Research Organisation, and its under-the-radar but wholehearted efforts, deserves much credit. This week, schoolkids can dream some more. 

 A   astronaut and engineer will be in town to interact with students at a city school. Steven Ray  , 56, has flown on a couple of Space Shuttle missions, undertaken an expedition to the International Space Station, logged over 640 hours in space, and completed four spacewalks. That’s a lot of experience and expertise for budding youngsters to tap into!
 
 Swanson’s visit is part of ‘Mission Discovery’, an initiative of the International Space School Educational Trust (ISSET) and Young Edsplorer – in partnership with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration – which seeks to deliver the best of NASA teamwork and leadership to young students. The American will be speaking on how space exploration can benefit life on earth.
 
 Swanson’s tryst with space began in 1998, when he was selected as mission specialist by NASA. As a member of a select band, Swanson would journey to the International Space Station (ISS) on three occasions, one of which was an extended halt at the orbiting laboratory.
 
 Swanson’s first space trip was on board Atlantis in June 2007, followed in March 2009 by a voyage aboard Discovery. Both times, he travelled as a mission specialist, and on each of these missions he led spacewalks, totting up more than 26 hours of extravehicular activity experience. His third and final tour was in 2014, with the Soyuz TMA-12M, the Russian spacecraft.
 
 On this third trek into space, Swanson would end up spending six months in the ISS, additionally assuming responsibility as the station commander. He held the fort here from May to September 2014, touching down in Kazakhstan on his return to earth. Of a total of 195 days in space, Swanson spent 169 days in orbit during his final mission.
 
 ‘Mission Discovery’, a five-day workshop, offers students the chance to learn and work directly with astronauts, rocket scientists and NASA leaders. During the five-day program, to be hosted by Shiv Nadar School-Gurgaon, students will be presented with an opportunity to design an experiment which will be launched into space, with the winning experiment to be performed aboard the International Space Station.
 
 Swanson called time on his career as astronaut in August 2015, and has since been focusing on sharing his encounters in space, and knowhow of space exploration, with students of all ages. For those kids at Shiv Nadar, it will be an experience they’re unlikely to forget – a meeting with one who’s flown close to the stars.
 
 
