CHANDIGARH: As many as  , most of which are unserved or non-operational, in Punjab and Haryana may soon witness hectic activity as the Union ministry of   (Moca) has identified these under its   called ‘Ude Desh Ka Aam Naagrik’ (Udan). 

 Giving details of the inclusion of these airstrips from the region under  , assistant solicitor general of India Chetan Mittal told the Punjab and   on Tuesday that all facilities where frequency of flights was limited or negligible had been included under Udan so that airlines could launch flights on local routes. The airlines would be permitted to run short flights of less than an hour on these routes and fare has been capped at Rs 2,500 so as to promote regional air connectivity.
 
 The assistant solicitor general was responding to a petition filed before the high court on the issue of non-operational airports in Punjab. He also placed a copy of the scheme on record before the HC. 
 
 The airstrips of Punjab which have been identified under the scheme include Adampur, Bakshiwala, Beas, Bathinda, Dablan, Faridkot, Ferozepur, Gurdaspur, Halwara, Jawalapur, Jalandhar, Khemkaran, Ludhiana, Nabha, Nanak, Pathankot and Patiala. Eight air strips of Haryana which have been included under the scheme. These 25 airstrips/airports of Punjab and Haryana are part of 440 identified across the country.
 
 The court was also informed that the civil aviation ministry had invited tenders from those interested in launching flights on these routes and that response had been received for around 30 routes from across the country.
 
 Mittal, who was representing the Union ministry, also submitted before the bench headed by Justice S S Saron that initially good response had been received from the airlines which had expressed willingness to start flights on regional routes. He added that most of the routes are expected to become operational in two years. To encourage the airlines, the ministry would offer them subsidy on fuel price and tax exemption.
 
 
