MUMBAI: You could soon see more   on the city's roads. There should be no restriction on the number of  , the committee set up by the Centre to frame a   for   has said. It made the recommendation in its report submitted in December and it is now being considered by the   government.

 Mantralaya sources said the government is keen to do away with the nearly 20-year freeze on the issuance of taxi and auto rickshaw permits in the state.There are 1.15 lakh taxis and tourist cabs and 1.39 lakh autos in Mumbai and its suburbs.
 
 Additional transport commissioner Satish Sahasrabudhe said, “Several existing permits had lapsed and were considered as dead permits. We have revived these and are issuing them them through a transparent lottery system to ensure that there are more autos and taxis on road.No new permit has been issued since 1998.“ Taxi unions have welcomed the proposal to remove the cap on permits and issue new ones based on demand.
 
 “Between 1962 and 1983, we had the freedom to apply for any number of permits, which is when kaali-peeli taxis became popular among Mumbaikars,“ said A L Quadros of the Mumbai Taximen's Union.“But after the permits were frozen in1998, we have not been able to increase our taxis.“
 
 He said removing the permit cap could benefit the new City Taxi Scheme, wherein the government plans to issue permits for app-based taxis. Nearly 30,000 private tourist taxis operating as Ola and Uber, as also 12,000 kaali-peelis, are likely to apply to join the scheme.
 
 In its report, the central taxi policy committee, of which the state transport commissioner is a member, states, “There is a need for national-level policy intervention to promote shared mobility over private vehicle ownership to reduce congestion and pollution in urban agglomerations. States should facilitate unhindered grant of city taxi and all-India taxi permits without a restriction on numbers. City taxis may continue as street hailing taxis.They should also be allowed to ply on the aggregator platform.
 
 “The committee strongly recommends avoiding unreasonable restrictions that will make taxi operations economically unviable, thereby causing inconvenience to citizens, leading to increased use of personal vehicles.“
 
 The latest transport department statistics (till March 31, 2017) show that there are 1.15 lakh taxis (kaali-peelis, tourist cabs) and 1.39 lakh autos in Mumbai. Street taxis are present only in Mumbai as there is no demand for these vehicles in the other metros of the state.
 
 Arguing for doing away with permit restrictions, the official said pollution, congestion, and a lack of parking space were the reasons given for not granting permits. “But don't these same arguments hold for private vehicles and now cab aggregators? Why should an ordinary citizen not get a licence to ply a taxi or auto? Let market forces decide the number of taxis and autorickshaws on the road,“ he said. The government too will earn revenue from issuing permits, he said. “The government's refusal to issue permits for two decades has resulted in old taxis and autorickshaws continuing to ply .“
 
 Transport expert Ashok Datar said the government should encourage better public transport. “If you look at Mum bai, private cars occupy 85% of the road space, but carry fewer people than public transport buses, taxis and autorickshaws. A single bus can carry passengers equivalent to eight to nine cars, while a taxi can also carry commuters who otherwise would have travelled in two or three vehicles,“ he said.
 
 TIMES VIEW :
 
 If government-run public transport, like trains and buses, is inadequate to cater to the needs of millions of Mumbaikars, then it is logical that self-employed cabbies and auto-rickshaw drivers step in to meet the demand. By insisting on a quota for them for over 20 years, during which time the city's population has grown rapidly, the state government is doing a big disservice to citizens.It would do better to let market forces, as the central committee has suggested, dictate the ride-hailing business.
 
  
 
