PUNE: In his first round of campaigning in Pune, chief minister   on Monday took on both the NCP and   by saying that the former was confused while the latter was in a bad shape and in desperation turning to the  .

 Fadnavis addressed four public meetings in the city. Speaking at Baner, Fadnavis said, “The NCP is a confused party which has no place among the masses. It will lose in Pune and in Pimpri Chinchwad. So don’t think of the NCP. The Congress is non-existent. Give the BJP in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad a decisive majority.” 
 
 Coming down heavily on his party’s former ally, he said, “Our friendly party is in a bad shape. One has to look for its existence and that’s why it is busy fixing up with the other parties in various parts of the state to win the  . But it will not be able to do anything as the people have already decided to bring BJP to power (in the civic bodies),” he said.
 
 At a rally in Kothrud, Fadnavis claimed that Shiv Sena’s 18 MPs had won the 2014 general elections because of a Modi wave. “The Sena was criticizing the Congress during the Lok Sabha polls, but now it is in cahoots with it,” Fadnavis said.
 
 He blamed the NCP and the Congress for stalling the city’s development and said the formation of Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority was delayed because of differences between these parties. 
 
 He said the city’s flyovers were constructed not to meet traffic solutions but to make money because of which traffic issues still remained unresolved.
 
 “The city’s DP was a topic of debate in the last two civic elections. This time it is not a debate because the government has acted on it on priority. The BJP government cleared Pune’s development plan (DP) and the party will ensure its full implementation after coming to power in the civic election,” he said.
 
 Fadnavis also claimed that his government made the metro rail project a reality after it had languished on paper for many years. “Things have moved ahead after people voted the BJP to power at the Centre and in the state. Now, the time has come to give BJP a chance in the civic body,” he added.
 
 Fadnavis promised that the party will make Pune the country’s startup capital in the next three years once it was voted to power. “People are looking at Bengaluru as the IT capital. We will make Pune the startup capital of the country. The party has a comprehensive plan for the city’s development. We will have an integrated approach to handle the city’s traffic. There will be a joint plan for the metro and PMPML services,” he said. 
 
 Fadnavis also said that the BJP will stop open dumping of garbage and process it scientifically.
 
 
