ALAPPUZHA: Four quotation gang members were arrested by the special investigation team in connection with the murder of DYFI Karuvatta region joint secretary Jishnu. 

 The arrested in   have been identified as Arun, 23, son of Sivapalan,Moonumanackal, Karuvatta, Arun Chand, 30, son of Ramachandran Nair, Alakkattusseriyil, Pradeep, 25, son of Viswanathan, Kaluthara, Karuvatta and Rahul, 28, son of Rajan, Raghi Bhavanam, Karuvatta. 
 
 Five other accused are absconding since the incident. DGP Lokanath Behera said the investigation has been intensified and the hunt is on for the other accused, who are still at large. The DGP along with ADGP B Sandhya visited Haripad on Sunday.
 
  The funeral of Sumesh, 30, Saravana Bhavanam, Kalarickal, Kandalloor, Kayamkulam, who was hacked to death on Saturday night was held on his house premises. He was hacked to death by a five-member quotation gang who arrived in a car at Kalarickal Junction. Sumesh was sitting on the verdandha of a local shop when the quotation gang reached there. 
 
 He is an accused in various criminal cases and he was released from jail one and half month ago. The enmity between the quotation gang is said to be the reason behind his murder. However, the police could not arrest anybody in connection with the murder till Sunday evening.
 
  Kayamkulam DySP N Rajesh, Kayamkulam CI K Sadan, Chengannur CI T Manoj and Haripad SI S S Baiju are the members of the special investigation team constituted for probing the   case. Haripad circle inspector Binu Sreedhar was placed under suspension by Kochi range IG P Vijayan for the dereliction of his duty in connection with the murder of Jishnu. He was suspended after he kept away from his duty on the murder day.
 
 It was in the day broad light of Friday, 24-year-old Jishnu of Vishnu Bhavanam, Karuvatta was hacked to death by nine-member quotation gang wearing masks at Karuvatta while he was going to home after attending the temple festival of   temple along with his brother Vishnu and friends. His friend Suraj, 19 suffered serious injuries in the attack.
 
