MUMBAI: It may have decided to spend Rs 3,600 crore to build a grand Shivaji memorial off the coast of the city, but the state government seems to be so strapped for cash that it has sought a loan of Rs 1,600 crore from the   (Hudco) for an urgent project like the repair and reconstruction of old and dilapidated bridges.After the collapse of a British-era bridge on the Savitri river near Mahad on August 2 last year killed 30 people, the state public works department (PWD) began drawing a road map to repair and reconstruct all dilapidated bridges across the state. The project is likely to cost Rs 1,750 crore.

 The state government is already reeling under a debt of over Rs 4 lakh crore and its interest burden is Rs 31,027 crore.Its expenditure on salaries is Rs 87,147 crore.
 
 In such a situation, the   (MNS) said the government should first spend on bridges and then on the   statue.
 
 “We are not against the Shivaji Maharaj statue as he is the inspiration for all Marathi people but, to preserve his memory, forts built by him should be maintained well and conserved by the government instead of spending on building the tal lest statue of his,“ MNS general secretary   said, adding that if the state had to seek a loan for a mere Rs 1,600 crore, the financial position of the state was not anywhere near good.
 
 PWD minister Chandrakant Patil countered him, saying the state was doing well.“Even after the (farmer) loan waiver scheme, the state is in a good position to handle the situation,“ Patil said.
 
 A PWD structural audit showed 271 of its bridges were in the `most dilapidated' category and would need Rs 570 crore for total reconstruction.Another 896 bridges need major repair works immediately , while 2,127 bridges need minor repairs.
 
 Considering the inadequate budget of tte PWD, it has sought to borrow from Hudco, a central government enterprise. A senior official said that even if the loan is sanctioned, repayment would be punis hing at an interest of 10.4%.
 
 The   has also assured the PWD that it will provide funds in a phase-wise manner for repairs once it starts getting its share of GST on a regular basis, which may be possible in the four to five months.
 
 The budget for the PWD for 2017-18 was upped by Rs 2,700 crore to Rs 7,000 crore, but officials remain skeptical regarding spending even after the increase. The state finance department has already decided to streamline the budget for a few schemes after its announcement of a farmer's loan waiver scheme, which is claimed to be the biggest ever in the state and for which Rs 20,000 crore has already been budgeted as an initial provision.
 
