KOLKATA:  's job was cut out on Thursday afternoon. Members of the BJP's youth wing were to draw from his detailed knowledge of central   and lead small groups of protesters through serpentine bylanes. The strategy was to disorientate the cops, making it easier for Sonkar's colleagues to attack them and dodge them to reach the police headquarters in Lalbazar.

 For over an hour, the BJP men engaged the cops in a cat-and-mouse game, making them run from one end of the road to another in their pursuit.
 
 On B B Ganguly Street, when the cops started chasing the protesters, they divided themselves in smaller groups and took refuge in the lanes and bylanes which even many cops did not know. To keep the police engaged, they kept throwing stones.
 
 “In chasing so many smaller groups, our numbers got divided. At one point, a particular stretch on BB Ganguly Street was completely unguarded.They took advantage of it and put a police vehicle on fire,“ said a deputy commissioner.
 
 One group did the unthin kable. They led a team of cops chasing them into Central Metro station. When they reached near the ticket counter they got merged with the other passengers making it difficult for the cops to identify them. “The cops rained blows on some innocent passengers too, which is good because it tarnished their image further in the eyes of com mon people,“ said a member of the BJP's youth wing.
 
 BJP workers also surprised the cops by surfacing in front of the police headquarters at Lalbazar and trying to force their way in. Around 21 BJP members spent the previous night in buildings near Burrabazar.They were later arrested, but it clearly showed that police were not prepared for it.
 
 At Brabourne Road, the strategy was to keep the cops busy by using the pavements and two key roads -Pollock Street and   -posing as office-goers of Dalhousie.Such was the planning, that a few even carried laptop bags that carried BJP flags inside them.
 
 “But, we read them out in half an hour. We used water cannons to disperse them. The idea was to identify them wet if they tried sneaking in through other roads. We then blocked the pavements,“claimed an officer.
 
