COIMBATORE: Hailing from a   in Mettupalayam,   G used to watch the alarming disappearance of traditional sari patterns from the market. It prompted him, a school dropout, to design a semi-automatic handloom that has been selected under the National Initiative for Developing and Harnessing Innovations- Accelerating Young and Aspiring Innovators & Startups (NIDHI- PRAYAS) initiative of the department of science and technology (DST).

 Agni Devan on Wednesday received Rs 2.4lakh as grant from DST to further his research on the loom that will reduce time and labour and increases returns. “I designed the machine to revive traditional patterns and to help the weavers community,” he told TOI.
 
 The loom is at the designing stage and the inventor will be supported by PSG College of Technology’s Science and Technology Entrepreneurial Park (PSG-STEP). Like Agni Devan, 10 others have been granted funds under the NIDHI-PRAYAS scheme.
 
 A total of Rs 80lakh has been allocated by the DST to PSG College of Technology under the scheme. On Wednesday, Rs 40 lakh was disbursed to the 11 candidates. who were selected by a committee of 11 members by the director of national science and technology entrepreneurship development board (NSTEDB), DST, Naveen Vasishta. 
 
 “The committee invited applications from interested candidates and 88 applications were received. After scrutiny, 22 were called for presentations, after which 11 were selected for grants,” said the general manager of PSG-STEP, K  . Eight out of the 11 committee members were industrialists from Coimbatore.
 
 Naveen Vasishta said NSTEDB has given thrust to the fields of agriculture, medicine, information and communications technology, energy and water. The beneficiaries range from school dropouts to PhD holders. “The projects that have been awarded the grants are in stages of research. They will be given three years to come out with a commercially viable model,” Suresh Kumar said. “We will release the grants in three parts (50%+30%+20%), which will be milestone-based,” he added.
 
 PSG College of Technology is one of the 10 institutions across the country and one of the two in Tamil Nadu that has been selected for the NIDHI-PRAYAS scheme. The other institution from Tamil Nadu is Kongu Engineering College. The research under NIDHI-PRAYAS will be monitored by the society for innovation and entrepreneurship at IIT-Bombay. 
 
  PSG College of Technology is also the only institution from Tamil Nadu (a total of 10 in the country) to have been chosen for NIDHI- entrepreneurship in residence (EIR) scheme. Under the scheme, candidates will be given Rs 30,000 per month for one year as fellowship to test the   of the ideas. 
 
