NEW DELHI: Sacked AAP minister   visited the Hanuman temple at   on Saturday evening and announced that he will be making a big revelation on Sunday. “Tomorrow at 11am, I will put some documents in front of the nation. After that,   will not have the moral strength to continue as chief minister and people will stop having trust in him. That is why I have come here to seek blessings of Hanumanji to give me strength.”

 The fourth day of Mishra’s hunger strike saw AAP MLA from Burari, Sanjeev Jha, reach Rajghat and release an open letter to Mishra. “He (Mishra) should release details like at what time he went to CM’s house on 5th May, when he allegedly saw the said Rs 2cr transaction, which car he used and if he came before Satyendar Jain or after him. I have the CCTV footage of CM’s house and we will match his responses,” he said. Jha added that if “Kapil is right and gives evidence, I will sit along with him on hunger strike, but if he is wrong, he should apologise”.
 
 Jha’s attempt to go to Mishra’s house in Civil Lines and stage a hunger strike was unsuccessful as he and his supporters were detained near barricades, 500m ahead of the house. They were bundled into a bus and taken away even as they were shouting “inquilab zindabad” and carrying banners saying “Kapil Mishra jis thali mein khata hai, usi main chhed karta hai”. Cops said Jha had no permission to carry out the protest. 
 
 Later in the day, Jha once again attempted to sit on a hunger strike with Praveen Kumar, AAP MLA from Jangpura, on the footpath in front of Mishra’s house but was once again removed swiftly. He protested against the alleged discriminatory behaviour of Delhi Police, adding, “I will continue my anshan at Jantar Mantar”.
 
 Responding to the letter from his colleague, Mishra said in another letter: “Sanjeev is in love and has blind devotion for Kejriwal, just like I was once. But my eyes have opened and god willing his will too.” He said he had details of the alleged Rs 2cr transaction and had given them to the investigative agencies. “How can I give proof of theft to the thieves themselves?” 
 
