NEW DELHI: With the   as technical partner,   and the health ministry have proposed a public-private partnership model to provide diagnosis and treatment for three non-communicable diseases in three fields — cardiac sciences, oncology and pulmonary sciences — in non-metro cities.

 The proposal envisages each state identifying five to six facilities to test the viability of the model. The centres under the PPP model would be run in district hospitals based in Tier 2 or 3 cities with at least 250 functional beds and an average daily OPD of 1,000 patients in the last two years. The hospitals must have enough vacant land within their premises for the PPP facility, which would have 50 or 100 beds.
 
 These facilities are expected to provide minimum screening, diagnostic and treatment procedures or services for cardiology, oncology and pulmonology. There will be two kinds of patients — self-paying ones and those paid for by the government under various schemes — but both would pay the same rates. The rates would be those fixed for a state health insurance scheme or, where none exists, the central government health scheme.
 
 The Niti Aayog wrote to all chief secretaries last month seeking the states’ comments on the draft model concessionaire agreement and guidelines prepared with the help of the World Bank and “working groups comprising the industry”.
 
 Prevention measures for non-communicable, the cheapest intervention, are entirely the government’s responsibility.
 
 Complicated cases the PPP facilities can’t deal with would be referred to government tertiary hospitals or medical colleges or to private hospitals empanelled under government health insurance schemes.
 
 The proposal has been criticised by activists, who said this was a bid to privatise public health facilities which would raise healthcare costs and lead to exploitation of patients for profiteering by private sector.
 
 Consultations on minimum services to be offered were held with working groups constituted by Niti Aayog. Those involved included private healthcare providers, the Union health ministry, a few states, an expert group of healthcare providers, regional workshops organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry, and representatives of some district hospitals.
 
 The Niti Aayog letter, however, has no mention of any civil society groups, public health activists or patients’ representatives being consulted.
 
 “The experience within India and globally has been that when you outsource services, the cost goes up. The cost of regulation is huge, about 30%, and even then the regulation isn’t perfect. So you either spend on regulation or open yourself up to unethical practices like over-investigation or patients being lured into more complicated procedures not covered by public funding,” said Dr Amit Sengupta of the People’s Health Movement.
 
 The health ministry maintains the proposal “is not exactly privatisation of public healthcare” and is rather in line with “strategic purchase of services for secondary and tertiary care, as has been envisaged in the National Health Policy by the ministry”.
 
 “Treatment of non-communicable diseases is expensive and is often unavailable at district level hospitals. The model contract has been drawn with a view to make such sophisticated services available to patients at local levels and at a government determined price,” the senior ministry official said.
 
 When asked if this can lead to increase in healthcare costs, the official said the government will fix pricing through tendering for different services. Moreover, prices under government insurance schemes have been set as benchmarks. For BPL patients, services will be provided free or at pre-fixed prices.
 
 For any private hospital, one of the biggest expenses is cost of land. The other big challenge is to ensure adequate patient footfall. With this PPP model, both are taken care of as land will be provided by the district hospital and the government is supposed to refer patients to the PPP facility.
 
 “Once you outsource and erode the public system, the bargaining power of the private sector goes up and so do their demands. This happened in the Arogyasri programme in Andhra Pradesh and the state is continuing to give in to the demands,” pointed out Dr Sengupta.
 
 In 2016, private hospitals empanelled under Arogyasri went on strike demanding revised rates for services under the scheme. Undivided Andhra doled out over Rs 1,900 crore as reimbursement to 350-odd private hospitals in just five years from 2008 to 2012, said a Lancet study. In contrast, 150 Arogyasri-empanelled   could claim only Rs 400 crore, a finding local experts argued revealed how the scheme benefits corporate hospitals.
 
 As of now, the model will be run on a pilot basis and is likely to be implemented only in two states.
 
 
