GOA: In Goa’s male-dominated music industry, two young belles are strumming their way into the limelight and the  . At just 17, Feviola Fernandes makes heads turn when she strikes a drum roll or plucks a chord on her bass guitar. The Class XII student is now practicing to  

  With a few more years under her belt is 25-year-old Shiroda resident Delcy Silveira. Delcy has five musical instruments in her repetoire– violin, keyboards, drums,  
 
 Although Feviola usually sticks to playing the bass guitar in tiatrs, she has a soft spot for the drums which she learnt to play in Class V. “I was taught the guitar by a family friend around two years ago. But playing the drums is in my genes. My younger brother Fedrich and I used to observe my dad, Francis (affectionately called ‘Bikru’), play the drums in his studio. When I started banging on them and enjoyed the beats my dad decided to teach me, and till date he has been my constant source of inspiration. My mum, Pedrina, also encourages me,” she says.
 
 Since her first drumming gig in 2010 for former minister Filipe Neri Rodrigues birthday party, Feviola has come a long way. She has been busy strumming her bass guitar at tiatrs for the likes of Anthony de Colva’s khell tiatr, Elvis-Carmen’s ‘Tankam Suttka Diat’, Dominic Fernandes’ ‘Maim Pai Ti Maim Pai’.
 
 She has also worked closely with well-known directors Patrick Dourado, Menino Mario, John D’Silva, Peter-Roshan, Kissan de Chinchinim, Vilton and Remedios Coutinho, Wilma Pacheco and Zina Dias. 
 
 Feviola looks forward to her performance in Delhi for a musical show organised by Konkani stage artiste C D’Silva on December 2 this year.
 
 Delcy, on the other hand, is a seasoned pro in a realm usually occupied by men. She performed her first violin concert at a young age for Fr Peter Cardozo in Margao. But now the tables have turned and she instructs music to students of three Salcete schools.
 
 After her tiatr debut in director Wilma Pacheco’s all-women production ‘Atam Borem Chintat’ (Now Think Properly) in 2013, this female trumpeter recently performed for Fr Doel Dias’ Lenten tiatr ‘Kaklut Amchi Kor Saiba’ (Forgive Us Our Lord). Delcy has studied solffegio (music intonations) and also successfully completed her VII Grade (violin) and III Grade (trumpet) at the   of Music, London.
 
 She credits her musically-inclined elder siblings, Diana and Richie, for inspiring her every day. She fondly remembers the role her dad, Anthony Silveira, a retired marine radio officer, played in her musical journey. Every time she had a music class in Panaji, he would be there to accompany her. Needless to say, none of this would have been possible without the support from her mum, Fatima.
 
 When asked to pick her favourite instrument, the country music aficionado says, “The trumpet. Some claim it is difficult to play it as you require a lot of energy, but I have been greatly appreciated for my 
 performances.”
 
 Feviola Fernandes prefers playing on an old Glendenning drum set that has been modified and made smaller. Formerly part of the all-girl band  , Delcy Silveira and four others enthralled audiences before calling it quits after 6 years
 
