Gandhinagar: Shankersinh   tendered his official resignation to the Congress party and as leader of opposition (LOP) in Gujarat Vidhan Sabha on Saturday, and uploaded a copy of the three-page resignation letter addressed to AICC president, Sonia Gandhi, to Twitter on Sunday. 

 The exit of Vaghela, a former chief minister of Gujarat, from Congress in this election year, has set off ripples across the state’s political circles.
 
 Gujarat Congress’s deputy LOP, Mohansinh Rathwa, will now take over as in-charge LOP in the state assembly. Congress sources said a new LOP will be chosen only after Rajya Sabha elections are over, as infighting for the LOP post may harm the party’s prospects.
 
 The most immediate impact of Vaghela’s exit from Congress may fall on Sonia Gandhi’s political secretary, Ahmed Patel, who is Congress’s sole Rajya Sabha member from Gujarat, and will face elections for his Rajya Sabha seat on August 8. If Patel wins, it will be his fifth term in the Rajya Sabha, where he has been a member since 1993.
 
 In his resignation letter to the Congress party, as posted on Twitter, Vaghela has said that he will also resign from the Kapadvanj legislative seat. When contacted, Vaghela said, “I am morally bound to resign as Kapadvanj MLA, as I have left the Congress party. I will tender my resignation as MLA on August 8, after Rajya Sabha polls.”
 
 When asked whether he will vote for the Congress candidate in the Rajya Sabha elections, Vaghela said, “I need not clarify on this issue.”
 
 With 11 Congress MLAs, allegedly belonging to Vaghela’s group having cross voted in favour of NDA’s presidential candidate, Ram Nath Kovind, Gujarat Congress is now wary of keeping its flock together. In the 182-seat Gujarat assembly, Congress needs 47 votes to send Ahmed Patel to Rajya Sabha, and has chances to fall short.
 
 Congress, however, claims it can pull through with the aid of two NCP and one JD (U) MLA. The terms of the two BJP Rajya Sabha members from Gujarat, Dilip Pandya and Smriti Irani will also end on August 8.
 
 Bapu claims to have been betrayed
 
 
 In resignation letter Vaghela points out that a few people in Congress were out to sabotage his political career. “During the 1999 Lok Sabha polls I was offered to contest against L K Advani from Gandhinagar. But to my surprise, I came to know through reliable sources that some senior Congress leaders had started questioning my candidature. Fearing a sabotage, I decided to contest elections from Kapadvanj (assembly) constituency,” Vaghela has written. In the second instance, Vaghela claims that after the Kapadvanj Lok Sabha seat ceased to exist in 2009, he lost Godhra Lok Sabha seat by a narrow margin due to sabotage by a few Congress leaders.BOX 2
 
 Solanki calls all-member meeting
 
 
 Gujarat Congress president Bharatsinh Solanki has called for an all-member meeting at Rajiv Gandhi Bhavan in Paldi. Sources claim that the meting is being called to officially announce Ahmed Patel’s name for the upcoming Rajya Sabha polls.
 
 
