MUMBAI:   filed by prominent corporators in the   (BMC) show that their assets have shown a significant increase in a five-year span.

 Shraddha Jadhav, who is senior corporator and has also been mayor in the BMC, had to face intra-party opposition while filing her nomination. She has declared assets worth Rs 37.16 crore, which includes movable and immovable properties and self-earned properties. This is up from her 2012 declaration of Rs 17.39 crore. That is a 117% jump in five years.
 
 Jadhav has declared mo vable properties worth Rs 1.7 crore and immovable properties worth Rs 23.48 crore, which include flats in Mumbai and agricultural land in Sangameshwar, her hometown. She has declared liabilities worth Rs 3.04 crore.
 
 The current mayor Snehal Ambekar's affidavit was not uploaded on the election commission's website till the time of going to press on Saturday , while affidavits of other candidates contesting from her ward had been uploaded. Similar was the case with the affidavit of leader of the house Trushna Vishwasrao.
 
 The current standing committee chairman, Yashodhar Phanse, had declared Rs 4.5 crore worth of total assets in 2012; this year he has declared assets worth Rs 11.41 crore. He owns three flats in Mumbai and some properties in Vadodara and has no liabilities. Kamini Shewale, a former corporator and wife of MP Rahul Shewale who was also standing committee chairman in the BMC, has declared assets worth Rs 78.1 lakh and has claimed that she doesn't own either a car or a house in Mumbai. She has studied up to HSC and has two pending criminal cases against her. She had last contested civic elections in 2002 and had declared no assets.
 
 Deepak Thakur, son of BJP minister Vidya Thakur, is contesting from Goregaon.He showed his total income Rs 2.48 crore in the election affidavit. Tulip Miranda, wife of senior Congress corporator Brian Miranda who is unable to contest the election as his ward is reserved for women, has declared assets worth Rs 48.88 crore.
 
