CHENNAI: In a shocking practice that has shades of the ancient devadasi system, virtually in Chennai's backyard, girls dressed as brides take part in a ceremony which ends with young boys stripping them naked, an NGO has complained. They are then forced to live in temples in Tiruvallur district as `public property'.

 The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has taken cognizance of a complaint drawing its attention to the inhuman treatment meted out to girls and women, who are forcibly taken to the Mathamma temple as offering.
 
 The commission has issued notices to the chief secretaries and the directors general of police of   and Andhra Pradesh besides district magistrates and superintendents of police of Tiruvallur and Chittoor ( ), calling for reports within four weeks. As part of the ritual, the girls are dressed as brides. Once the ceremony is over, they are stripped by five boys. After the ceremony, they are not permitted to live with their families and are denied education.
 
  They are forced to live in the Mathamma temple and deemed public property and face sexual exploitation, said a report the NHRC has cited. The practice is another form of devadasi system, which is still practised in some parts of TN and AP, the NHRC said. 
 
 The commission observed that the allegations made in a complaint as well as published in a section of the media of such a barbaric prac of the media of such a barbaric practice were “serious in nature, and if true, amounts to violation of human rights including rights to education, life and dignity."
 
 As early as 2003, the   (CCRD) and the   did a series of studies on the practice of devadasi system in Tiruvallur villages. But the then district police said the practice that had been in vogue a decade ago, had stopped completely. 
 
 “We came to know that people in Tiruvalangadu as well as nearby villages used to leave little girls to the Mathamma deity . There are at least two or three such temples in Tiru vallur district, along the AP border.Parents of these girls are not tribals but belong to a particular caste and once the girl attains puberty, she is left under the `protection' of the goddess, " said an activist, who is a member of the   Justice Board.
 
 Most of these girls end up in prostitution. “In earlier days, devadasis attached to temples are exploited by the local landlord and abandoned after a few years, until she takes up prostitution for livelihood. Now, the girls take to prostitution straight," said the activist.
 
