AURANGABAD: After the State Directorate of Technical Education (DTE), Aurangabad recently asked the institutions under its purview to offer   to students, the   (NSUI) has raised a similar demand from  . 

 The NSUI, which has accused several traditional colleges from the city and the region for overcharging students for parking facility, has also sought necessary intervention from Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) in the matter. 
 
 NSUI district secretary   said that even some of the leading institutions that have received ‘A grade’ from the   (NAAC) have been burning holes in the pockets of students.
 
 Facilitating free parking is one of the criteria for receiving an ‘A grade’, and despite this fact, colleges in question ask its students to pay for parking. The fees charged from students for parking their two-wheelers is in the range of Rs 5 to Rs 10 per visit. The amount ends up being huge when calculated annually,” he said.
 
 When contacted, a section of college authorities from the city defended their move to charge parking fees from students. “The management of college parking has been outsourced and the concerned contractor needs to be paid. We do not have a workforce to manage college parking and therefore have to rely on these private players. Unmanned parking spaces can lead to chaos everyday as students tend to park in a hurry, which can cause unruly scenes,” said a college principal, preferring anonymity.
 
 Like professional institutions, college authorities also spoke about the need for bringing in uniform parking charges instead of abolishing it completely.
 
 The higher education department authorities concerned from Aurangabad region could not be reached for their comments. Suhas Morale, director of students welfare at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu), said that the university will decide on its official resolve on the parking fee in colleges shortly. “The issue has been brought to our notice recently. Keeping in mind the large interest of students, we will try and decide some policy on the matter,” he said. 
 
 Recently, the DTE, Aurangabad region, had had asked institutions coming under it to provide free parking to the students. 
 
