New details emerging after the death of legendary actor   have revealed that the actor wanted to meet his son, who was staying with his for mer wife  , and had even visited their residence. The latest revelations came after   police, which has registered a case of accidental death after the actor's demise, recorded the statement of producer  , who claimed to have been with Puri till a few hours before his death.

 "Om Puri wanted to meet his son   on Thursday evening. So we (Kidwai and Om Puri) went to Trishul building where his ex-wife Nandita lives with Ishan but were unable to meet them as both Nandita and Ishan had gone for a party. Om Puri then had an argument over the phone with Nandita and asked them to come soon as he wanted to meet his son," read the statement.
 
 "He poured a drink in his glass and waited for almost 45 minutes at Nandita's flat. But when they did not turn up, he took the glass and liquor bottle and started drinking in the car. After finishing the drink, we left," added Kidwai's statement.
 
 Sixteen-year-old Ishan is a special child and was very close to Om Puri.
 
 When contacted by Mirror, Kidwai, producer of the movie 'Rambhajan Zindabad', said that his statement has been recorded twice by the police. "I have given them a detailed account of whatever happened on Thursday. I have also told police that he desperately wanted to meet his son, Ishan, but unfortunately, it did not happen," said Kidwai.
 
 "As Khalid Kidwai was with Om Puri since afternoon to hours before his death, we recorded his statement. We will corroborate this piece of information with Nandita's statement. Only then can we make any conclusion," said a senior police officer of Oshiwara Police Station.
 
 OM PURI WANTED TO SHIFT BASE
 
 Sources close to Om Puri have also added that the actor was planning to shift his base of operation to US so that Ishan could get better treatment. Puri was consulting with a few people in US and India for buying a house abroad.
 
 "Om Puri wanted to provide better treatment to Ishan. He had also consulted some doctor and was serious about it," said a source close to the actor. Police had registered a case of accidental death after post-mortem report of Om Puri revealed that his death was not natural. When police arrived at Om Puri's residence on Friday, he was found lying on the floor with a sharp injury on his head.
 
 "We suspect that Puri died of heart-attack however it will be confirmed after viscera report. After suffering the cardiac arrest, he might have fallen causing the injury on his forehead. He was alone at home and there was no sign of forced entry. At this stage, we have ruled out possibility of any foul play," said a senior officer of Mumbai Police.
 
 The veteran actor, who delivered riveting performances in more than 100 films, passed away on Friday morning. He was 66 year old and is a   recipient.
 
 
 
