Hoshangabad: Chief minister   seems to be on a cleansing drive. On Monday, while launching a massive project to clean up River Narmada, he announced that all liquor shops within 5km of the riverbanks will be shut down.

 This comes in the wake of de-addiction rallies held by the CM in several parts of the state, triggering speculation that Madhya Pradesh could be the third state to enforce prohibition. The state government receives around Rs 7,300 crore a year as excise duty on liquor.
 
 On Monday, he was addressing a large gathering after culmination of a 3km march ‘Narmada Sewa Yatra’ under his ambitious Namami Devi Narmade project. “How many of you like drinking liquor?” asked the Chouhan, to which the crowd roared back: “No.”
 
 In the same breath, the CM laid down the “evils of liquor”. “Drinking liquor is not only injurious to health but also disturbs the family life,” he said, adding that many men who get drunk beat wives and abuse children.
 
 “Therefore, I have decided to shut all liquor shops along the Narmada banks, be it Bedagat, Budhni or Hoshangabad,” said the CM, taking everyone by surprise. As the women cheered, the CM hurled a question at the people of Hoshangabad: “I hope you all are happy, and no one is disappointed with my decision.” The women cheered louder.
 
 Switching to the clean-up of Narmada, he said that the government has allocated Rs 1500 crore to set up sewerage treatment plants (STP) along the river. “The STPs will prevent sewage from directly flowing into the river. Household and other sewage will be diverted to STPs first.” Recalling the effort to link Narmada with Kshipra, he said the link-up could turn the barren Malwa in “Nandanwan”.
 
 He appealed to the pilgrims not to discharge puja materials into the Narmada, warning that this could threaten its very existence. “Like any Hindu, I wish that my last rites be performed on the banks of Narmada in Hoshangabad, but we must also ensure that the river does not get affected," said the chief minister, assuring the pilgrims that he would direct the local bodies to make arrangements so that religious sentiments are preserved as well.
 
 Film producer and director Prakash Jha, who has been a part of the Narmada Sewa Yatra, compared the river with mother. “No matter what we do, we will always remained indebted to river Narmada,” he said. Olympian wrestler Sushil Kumar shared the dais.
 
 
