YAVATMAL: One man died and his two nephews are serious after they consumed a   at the district collector’s office here on Thursday in connection with a   

 Kundan Gautam (44) succumbed on Saturday, while his nephews, Ashish and Umesh Gautam, are battling for their life at Government Medical College here.
 
 The brief backdrop of the incident is that there was a legal dispute over the ownership of five acres of land in Dolari Shendri village of Darwha tehsil in the district between one Gangabai Bais and the trio. On April 16, 2013, the dispute was decided by the subdivisional magistrate of Darwha in favour of Gangabai. The trio then filed an appeal before the additional  , which was rejected.
 
 Further, the trio approached the civil court in Darwha against the order of the  , but again, their plea was turned down.
 
 There arose an enmity between the parties which forced Gangabai to seek police protection on August 7, 2015, and the same was given to her on August 11, 2015. A   was registered against the trio under sections 341,447,504,506 and 34 of IPC and the trio was granted bail on condition of keeping peace and harmony in the village. But they violated the assurance and Gangabai again sought police protection on June 30, 2016 which was granted on November 11, 2016.
 
 Police station officer Anilsingh Gautam of Darwha police station summoned both the parties at the behest of the village police patil on Thursday with their original documents to establish their claim of ownership on the disputed land. Gangabai reached Darwha police station with her documents but the other three did not turn up.
 
 On the contrary, they went to the district collector’s office and made the attempt to suicide in front of the office. The trio was rushed to the GMC.
 
 Yavatmal SP Megnathan Rajkumar said, “Both the ministers from the district, Sanjay Rathod and guardian minister Madan Yerawar, conducted separate review meetings of the incident and we briefed them of our role in the case,” Rajkumar said.
 
 “With the death of Kundan, we have registered an FIR under section 174 of CrPC and ordered an investigation,” he added.
 
