MUMBAI: A day after TOI exposed attempts by   to claim residence in more than one state, the Maharashtra government has   its   college admission process. The first list of allotted seats that was to be released on Tuesday has been put on hold for   certificates to be verified.

 The TOI report said some candidates had claimed to possess domicile in various states to be eligible for a larger pool of seats, including in all government colleges and 85% of seats in private colleges, in the respective regions. Some of them have landed on merit lists in UP, Maharashtra and Delhi at the same time, apart from holding an all-India NEET rank. As of now, there is little coordination among states on the issue.
 
 Head of DMER, which oversees the admission process, Dr Praveen Shingare, said the process has been stayed till candidates who claim to be residents of Maharashtra are screened. 
 
 “We will be checking domicile certificates of candidates who have not taken class X and class XII from Maharashtra.” A list of “suspicious” candidates will be drawn up and they will be asked to furnish certificates and other documents.
 
 A group of parents who have been campaigning on the issue met medical education minister Girish Mahajan on Monday and submitted a list of 50 names of candidates who applied for seats in more than one state and are among the first 2,000 on the state merit list. Mahajan said, “We will come out with a plan in the next two days. No deserving student will be affected.”
 
 The Opposition in the state has also demanded that government intervene in the matter. Dhananjay Munde, leader of house in the legislative council, said government should launch a probe. "The state government should approach Supreme Court on the issue and till then   must be stopped," said Munde.
 
 Parents have demanded that a list of students who did not pursue their class X from the state be sent to district collectors to check how such candidates were issued domicile certificates. "Our question is that if these students did not take class X from the state, how could they have 15 years of continuous stay in Maharashtra, which is a pre-requisite for granting a domicile certificate," asked parent Sudha Shenoy. 
 
 All rounds of admission in private medical colleges will be conducted by the DMER. As the first list is likely to be delayed, subsequent admission rounds may be pushed back further. 
 
 Apart from government and private colleges, such candidates, like others, can also apply under the 15% all-India quota filled by the DGHS and for the 85% seats in all deemed universities across India.
 
 The Race For Medical Admissions 
 
 MBBS aspirants are simultaneously vying for govt seats in many states—Maharashtra, Goa, Gujarat, Telangana, MP, Karnataka, Delhi, Rajasthan, UP
 
 For instance, someone with a unique NEET rank has a state rank in Maharashtra, Delhi and UP. Some south Indian candidates have applied in one state with their full name (first name and surname) and in other states with their first name and their father's name as the second name. 
 
 By the rules, if a student has domicile in one state, he/she would be categorized as out-of-state in all other regions, and would not have access to govt medical colleges in those states or to the 85% seats in their private colleges
 
 
