KOLKATA: At a time when women were mostly confined to their homes, a handful of them crossed all barriers and set out to discover the world, literally.

 In 1882, when   shed her   and a hat to   with her husband, who took up teaching Sanskrit, Persian and Bengali to clerks and officers in the British administrative services, the couple was disowned by their family in Habra. The stigma of crossing the ocean was such that Krishnabhabini was not allowed to see her daughter ever again. For the eight years she lived in England, she documented her experiences in Bengali, published in 1885 as `England e Bangamahila', the   by a Bengali woman.
 
 Another Bengali woman taken over by wanderlust was Rajkumari Banerjee, who travelled to Bristol with her husband Sasipada at least a decade before Krishnabhabini. The Banerjees visited England on an invitation from Mary Carpenter, who worked for the cause of female education in India.Though the couple left to work for women's emancipation, they faced extreme social ostracism, being thrown out of their Baranagar home and pelted with stones by neighbours. Their first child, Albion, was born in Bristol after which, Carpenter wrote to Queen Victoria saying, “History's first Brahmin subject was born on British soil.“ Rajkumari's son documented her travel, describing her effort as a “sacrifice for the cause of the Indian women“.
 
 According to Jayati Gupta, Tagore National Fellow for Cultural Research at National Library , the foundation of Bethune School in 1849 along with the Brahmo movement, was a watershed moment and perhaps the two teamed up to enthuse women to cross the thresholds. A researcher of   travellers between 1870 and 1945 as part of Cultures of Travel in Bengal, a ministry of culture project, Gupta taught at Presidency College before joining West Bengal State University .
 
 Social reformer Keshub Chandra Sen's eldest daughter, Suniti Devi, who became the queen in the Cooch Behar royal family , recounted her travel to England in her ` Autobiography of an Indian Princess', one of the earliest treatises in English by a woman. “She was part of the 1877 celebrations when Victoria became the empress. She described it in her memoir, just as she recounted her mother's tribulations in climbing down the staircase at her in-laws' home and walking out with her husband after he became Brahmo,“ Gupta said.
 
 Among the other women travellers of the time was Jagatmohini Chowdhury , who visited England in 1896; her `England e Saatmash' was published in 1902. Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose's wife, Abala Bose, travelled with him to England around the same time.
 
 “While most went to England, a few visited Japan as well. The rise of Japan as an Asian power and the women's wonder at Japan's discipline, cleanliness, aesthetics and native wisdom are interesting,“ Gupta said. She has documented this group of women, starting from 1912 with Hariprava Takeda from Dhaka, who married a Japanese entrepreneur, who owned a soap factory in Dhaka and travelled with him to Japan, to Suhasini Biswas, who was taken a prisoner of war by Germany and handed over to Japan. Civil servant Gurusaday Dutta's wife Saroj Nalini Dutta and historian Kalidas Nag's wife Shanta Devi travelled to Japan in 1928 and 1938, and recorded them in travelogues.
 
