Emphatic electoral approvals of Narendra Modi’s   and governance — most critically so in the recent   assembly election — are a common thread as the BJP-led NDA government completes three years. Since Modi took charge as Prime Minister, BJP has formed governments on its own in four states for the first time — Maharashtra (2014), Haryana (2014), Assam (2016) and Manipur (2017) — and joined hands with the PDP to form its first coalition government in Jammu & Kashmir. It also came back to power in Jharkhand, Uttarakhand and Goa.
 
  Even as its winning streak was reflected in rural and urban local body elections, from tribal Odisha to urbane Maharashtra and Chandigarh, the BJP had to suffer electoral humiliation in 2015 assembly elections of Delhi and Bihar. This was partially avenged in Delhi with a comprehensive victory over the Aam Admi Party in the municipal election.
  
  At the perception level, policy calls such as the surgical strike and demonetisation saw Modi continually reinforce the image of a decisive and audacious leader running a pro-poor government. While many experts and rivals ranged against him over demonetisation, results of assembly elections barely months after the move proved the public at large was with the PM. The absence of even a whiff of big-ticket corruption underlined the contrast with the previous regime.
  
 
  
  Meanwhile, the opposition lurched from one issue to another — ghar wapsi, award wapsi, land acquisition bill, demonetisation and now the presidential election — in a so-far-futile bid to pose a united challenge.
  
  At the policy level, the government suffered a massive setback when it was forced to retrace its steps on land acquisition legislation early on, and its attempts to reform appointments in higher judiciary were struck down by the Supreme Court.
  
  The apex court and the government remain in a stand-off over the issue of judicial appointments while the government suffered a judicial setback over imposition of President’s Rule in Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh. The challenges in tackling the volatile situation in J&K also remain an active faultline that the government finds itself struggling with, even three years on.
  
  However, the government appeared to have taken these big setbacks in its stride and demonstrated its sense of purpose by pushing through legislations for the goods and services tax and the more recent provision of statutory basis for Aadhaar.
  
  On the international stage, Modi made bold moves — inviting   leaders for his swearing-in, hosting the US President on Republic Day, making a strong pitch for National Suppliers Group membership and moving away from convention in engagements with Pakistan and China, always a risk.All of this drew fresh attention towards India. However, headwinds of the global economic situation have muted benefits, barring the fiscal elbowroom provided by low crude oil prices.
  
  Challenges notwithstanding though, Modi appears to have grown taller after three years as Prime Minister while the opposition has become more fragmented. 
