NEW DELHI: The number of   admitted every year: 36,000. The number of beds available for chemotherapy: 36. While not every   patient admitted would require  , the disparity explains why the wait for a chemo session could be “infinite” at   which houses one of India’s top cancer centres, the Bhim Rao Institute Rotary Cancer Hospital (IRCH).

 A recent review conducted by the institute says the cancer centre is crumbling under the load of patients since their numbers have only grown while infrastructure has not. The AIIMS report says patients seeking one to two week-long chemotherapy have to wait “infinitely” for their turn. Those undergoing three-week-long chemotherapy often miss their dates due to unavailability of beds. The crisis does not end here. The IRCH does not have a dedicated MRI facility so patients have to queue up with the rest at AIIMS. So they could end up waiting upto a year or more for the crucial diagnostic test. Should surgery be in order, they could wait for one to three months.
 
 More than 1.33 lakh cancer patients visit AIIMS every year and around 36,000 are admitted.
 
 More than 1.33 lakh cancer patients visit AIIMS every year and around 36,000 are admitted. The institute is now pin ning its hopes on the Na tional Cancer Institute (NCI) coming up at Jhajjar.“There is no space left for expansion of infrastructure at IRCH and hence they are working overtime to complete the 710-bedded cancer facility in Jhajjar to handle the constantly increasing patient burden,“ said V Sriniwas, deputy director (administration), told TOI. “NCI is projected to handle 5.19 lakh patients on OPD basis and 1.41 lakh indoor patients annually once it is fully operational.“
 
 IRCH began functioning in 1983-84 with 35 beds on two floors. At present, it has 182 beds, of which only six are ICU beds, say doctors. “There are 30 beds for chemotherapy on daycare basis,“ Sriniwas added, explaining the “infinitely long“ waiting for chemotherapy . IRCH has only three functional operation theatres and two PET CT scan machines. Cancer patients from across the country come to Delhi for treatment but, health experts point out, barring AIIMS and the newly opened Delhi State Cancer Institute (DSCI), no public sector hospital has an efficient cancer facility. “Poor people cannot afford private treatment for a disease like cancer which can cost anywhere between Rs 5 lakh and Rs 40 lakh,“ said an oncologist.
 
 Top officials said NCI, which will be run by AIIMS, will have 25 OTs and a reasonable number of PET CT and MRI machines. “The 710-bedded cancer facility in Jhajjar is projected to handle 5.19 lakh patients on OPD basis and 1.41 lakh indoor patients annually once it is fully operational. It will be headed by Dr G K Rath,“ Sriniwas said.
 
 India requires at least 1,300 radiotherapy units but has only around 750, said Dr P K Julka, medical oncologist at Max Super Specialty Hospital, Saket. Most of the machines, he added, are in the private sector hospitals. Delhi has around a dozen radiotherapy units, of which four are in government-run hospitals -AIIMS, Safdarjung, Lok Nayak and DSCI. Safdarjung Hospital, sources said, does not have a simulator or treatment planning system (TPS) for precise administration of dosage and has been using Cobalt-60 machines for radiotherapy services when most hospitals have switched to newer technologies such as linear accelerators.
 
 Oncologists say that infrastructure for cancer treatment needs to be scaled up rapidly . “In 1977, when I worked at Lok Nayak Hospital, it had one Cobalt 60 machine. That hasn't changed in 38 years although the number of patients has multiplied,“ said an oncologist.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
