KOLKATA: With a spike in   in  ,   have started spreading faster around the city . Kolkata, which doubles up as a destination and   for   headed for the northern part of the country , is witnessing an increased presence of 'wholesalers'.

 According to Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) records, in 2016 alone the agency arrested over 60 peddlers and seized 1,379kg ganja from the state, almost four times the amount it seized a year back.However, even as the peddlers are being caught, there are senior operatives who stay behind the curtain, running the show. There are at least 35 key operatives in and around Kolkata, an officer told TOI.
 
 The area of operation of each operative is well demarcated, NCB sources said. Their territory covers Kidderpore, Ek balpore, Watgunge, Taratala, Be hala and Thakurpukur. At least 5,000 men and women work as NG ON channels, spre ading the drugs across the city and neighbou ring areas. The state and central agenci es are concerned about the setting up of some “store houses“ in and around Barrackpore. The Barrackpore store houses, allegedly run under the patronage of a local strongman with lots of political clout, supply to retail stores spread across the city. Earlier, there used to be just a few smallsized wholesalers in South 24Parganas, but the business has gradually shifted to North 24Parganas, with the growth of the Barrackpore store houses.
 
 A large chunk of the retailers (peddlers) in Kolkata are fed by sellers around Garden Reach and Metiabruz. A lot of middlemen near Sovabazar also store cannabis and supply them.“There are no big suppliers in Kolkata,“ said Dilip Srivastava, regional director of NCB. “Most sellers do it on a retail basis, commonly termed `puria'.“ Based on the quality of the product, the entire chain -from wholesalers to peddlers -can earn as much as 100% to 200% profit.
 
 The key operatives source the stuff -in consignments weighing 2kg to 3kg -from their counterparts in other states and from Nepal and Myanmar. In Kolkata, there is a three-tier distribution system. The drug lords, who invest several lakhs in each consignment, divide it into packets weighing 50g to 100g and sell those to another group, the second tier. This group splits the consignment into the smallest unit, known in the market as `puria'. The third level compri ses hundreds of men and women, like those selling the purias outside school and college gates.
 
 The price of the drug depends on the amount of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the main intoxicant in cannabis.The variety of cannabis that commands the highest price in Kolkata markets is sourced from north-eastern states like Manipur. The second in preference is the variant procured from Odisha. The variety of ganja grown in north Bengal districts like Cooch Behar are considered poor quality , since they are low in THC. “The largest amount of ganja that reaches Bengal is procured from cultivators in Odisha. From Odisha, it is sent to neighbouring states like Bihar and Bengal,“ Srivastava said.
 
 After the consignments reach Bengal, it is sent to wholesalers in the state. Traditionally, cannabis wholesalers were located in Cooch Behar and parts of Nadia districts.After they seized 27.5kg ganja at Sealdah last week, NCB officials found that the consignment came to Nadia first, from where it was routed to Kolkata. “Although carriers are an intricate part, they do not know others in the chain.That is how kingpins stay immune and carriers are arrested,“ said an NCB official.
 
