He is popularly known among many as a rock poet. His philosophical lyrics touch on lives of people around him, and his music fits perfectly into the rock music genre. That’s  , a Bengaluru-based musician and former vocalist of  . He was in the city on Thursday to perform at a city pub. In a chat, he tells us about being called a rock poet, why he sports a half-painted face on stage and more. Excerpts. 

 
 I am basically someone who likes to write. First, I write lyrics and get it the way I want it to be. Then I set a tune for that. So, I am supposed to be a good lyricist and over the years people started calling me a rock poet (smiles). I see concerts as storytelling sessions. Each song that I perform will have a story to tell. 
 
 
 I got ragged in engineering college and somebody asked me to sing. I sang. They liked it and told me that I sang well. That was like a new realisation for me that I could sing well. That’s how it all began. But what really got me hooked to music was the time with Motherjane. That also happened by chance. I went to drink tea at one restaurant in Kochi. And there was this band that was playing without a vocalist. That was Motherjane. I sang a couple of songs with them. They liked my voice and asked me to join. And I sang with them for 11 years before I left the band. 
 
 
 In case, if you wonder why I get on stage with a half-painted face, I have a reason for that. When I am on stage, I reflect the lives many people around me — sometimes yours, sometimes mine or a third person’s life. Our shows are like a mythical traveller who goes around the society and gains different experiences. That makes audience at our shows relook at their lives. There’s another reason for my half-painted   face. According to the folklore, Kathakali artistes depict gods. So, when I sport a half-painted Kathakali face, it depicts both the human and divine side in me. The human in me help me to enjoy the life as it is. And at the same time, I also find divinity in me to create music. Then the name of my current band. That was also done consciously. Tattva in Sanskrit means the principle of things. In every song, I take principles of life and trip on that. Hence the name Suraj Mani & The Tattva Trip. 
 
 
 I left Motherjane after I had a ruptured disc. I was bedridden for sometime before I recovered. I couldn’t travel 28 hours up and down from Bengaluru to Kochi every month for practice. I even thought of quitting music then. But I realised that I was already into music too much that quitting it was not an option. I kept making original music and started playing guitar myself. Slowly, I met other band members one by one at different gigs and that’s how we formed the band. Since then I have only been singing original stuff. After leaving Motherjane, I've written 55 new songs. I am someone who believes that a musician should make original music to remain relevant. Or else, 10 years down the line, another bunch of youngsters will sing   with much more energy. And you will lose out in the race. 
 
 
