NAGPUR:   and   will be pleasantly surprised when they wake up and see the newspapers on Monday morning. The two have been included in the Indian probables for the  . It has happened for the first time in Nagpur's basketball history.

 City's best two forwards Shreya and Siya have been rewarded for their excellent performance in the Under-19 and Under-14 national championships at Andhra Pradesh and Gwalior respectively. The school national basketball championships were organized by the School Games Federation of India ( ).
 
 With an aim to pick the best Indian talent, the SGFI will also conduct Basketball School League in Rajnandgaon, Chhattisgarh, for the first time from April 20-23. Prior to that the national camp of all the three age categories will begin at the Yugantar Public School in Rajnandgaon from April 12. After attending the preparatory camp both the city players will vie for their berth in the 12-member Indian team during the four-day School League.
 
 Both Shreya and Siya are versatile players. Despite being the best forwards, they can do the equally good job as point guards. The Rajnandgoan preparatory camp is the perfect platform for them to play alongside the best Indian talents. The national basketball teams for the   will be selected on the basis of performance during the camp, which will be followed by the School League.
 
 Shreya, 17, who practices at the Shankar Nagar-based Dharampeth Krida Mandal (DKM), is a student of Ambedkar College and represented Maharashtra in the U-19 nationals held at Krishna, Andhra Pradesh, earlier this year. Last year in the U-16 nationals, Shreya was the top scorer for Maharashtra. She was also included in the state U-18 team.
 
 Siya, a   (SNG) player, is a student of Bhavan's BVM, Civil Lines. The 14-year-old played for Maharashtra in the U-14 nationals held at Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh, last April. Siya had represented India in the U-12 Pacific International School Games festival at Melbourne, Australia. In November 2015.
 
 Earlier in 2013, DKM post-guard Mugdha Amraotkar had become only the second player from the city to represent the country in the Fiba Asia Basketball championship. In the same year Mugdha's teammate Anushree Kaloti was included as India probable player for the World Schools Basketball Championship but was forced to skip the event due to the clash of dates of her SSC examination and the international event.
 
 Both Shreya and Siya give the credit of their success to their parents, college and school authorities and club coaches. Shreya is the daughter of Harish and   is being trained by Dhiraj Kadao. Siya is the daughter of Shreesh and Swati Deodhar and is being trained by Shatrughna Gokhale and  .
 
 President of   (NDBA)   congratulated Shreya and Siya for their achievement.
 
