NEW DELHI: The   of roads in the capital that are prone to   is imminent.   has instructed the task force working on a policy to decongest the city to begin enforcing changes, including removal of encroachments and increasing road space, within the next three weeks.

 A team led by Ajay Kashyap, special commissioner (Traffic), had submitted a report on 77 of the most congested corridors in Delhi that could be improved with changes in road geometry, increase of road space and demarcation of pedestrian zones. 
 
 These corridors have been categorised as ‘A’, ‘B’ and ‘C’ types on the basis of volume of road users and visibility of corridors. Of them 28 corridors under ‘A’ category will be treated on priority.
 
 “The LG has emphasised that the immediate implementation of the projects and identified works is be undertaken in a time-bound manner to ensure timely completion,” informed a government official. “For each action point, a specific timeline will be fixed.”
 
 The chief secretary and the traffic police have been asked to identify four or five corridors where changes could be implemented on pilot basis. Periodic monitoring and evaluation of the impact of such interventions will carried out and proper documentation logged.
 
 Most of the selected stretches fall on the Ring Road and Outer Ring Road, and the chief secretary has been asked to coordinate among the agencies concerned.
 
 Part of the work, according to police officers, will involve cleaning up areas beneath flyovers and near U-turns to facilitate movement of a bigger vehicular volume, and the civic bodies have been instructed to keep such spaces green and beautified. 
 
 The civic bodies have also been asked to carry out repair works on potholes on the identified roads, a major reason for the slowing down of traffic.
 
 The road-owning agencies will be responsible for the repair and maintenance of roads and for keeping them encroachment free. The transport commissioner has also been advised to fast-track the parking policy and the rerouting of interstate buses as also to ensure that buses do not ply without proper permits.
 
 
