PUNE:   in the state have urged the government to bring all   under the   ambit and   on them for any   in  .

 Even as the figures of developers registering with MahaRERA crossing the the 10,000-mark by late Monday evening, the consumers appeared quite concerned about the builders not getting registered with the authority.
 
 The Mumbai Grahak Panchayat has written to CM Devendra Fadnavis and MahaRERA, stating that there should be compulsion for all ongoing projects to be registered, even if was beyond the deadline.
 
 In its letter, the association suggested a penalty of 5% on the developers registering their projects till August 15 and another 5% till the end of the month. For the developers getting registered with MahaRera after August 31, the Mumbai Grahak Panchayat wants a 10% penalty.
 
 Shirish Deshpande of the Panchayat told TOI that the consumers’ main concern was the unregistered projects and fly-by-night operators, “who will manage to stay out of the RERA net unless serious action is taken against them”. 
 
 “It should be like the Income Tax return model. People have to file I-T returns with penalty. The same should be done for all developers in connection with RERA,” he said, adding that it will be the local authorities’ responsibility to ensure that none of the constructions got the permission to continue work without getting registered.
 
 Pune Grahak Panchayat member Vijay Sagar said all the developers should be covered under RERA, so that people can lodge complaints in case of grievances. MahaRERA secretary Vasant Prabhu told TOI that the builders will be able to register their projects on the website, “but the decision of giving them a RERA enrolment will depend on the committee”. 
 
 Till now, over 190 talukas in the state have not seen any registration so far even as the developers have to do it eventually.
 
 Credai-Maharashtra president Shantilal Kataria said even as the numbers soared on the final day of the registration process, various small towns and cities faced issues with certification from chartered accountants and architects. “They should get an extension. We have requested the CM to allow them a little more time,” he said.
 
 Ranjit Naiknavare, secretary of Credai-Pune Metro, said while registration of projects was highest from Pune, the safety of the data has to be ensured. “The city areas have responded well, but there was less awareness in smaller towns. Most big developers were able to register their projects without any difficulty. Smaller developers, however, found it difficult,” he said. 
 
 
