NAGPUR: In a big blow to Congress faction led by former mayor Vikas Thakre, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court refused to grant interim stay to Tanaji Wanwe’s election as leader of the Congress group in Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC).

 A single-judge vacation bench comprising justice Atul Chandurkar, on Friday, adjourned the hearing till June 7. Former leader of opposition from Congress in civic body Sanjay  , had knocked the judiciary’s doors after he was ousted following a split in party. He prayed for reinstatement contending that Tanaji Wanwe’s election, as a leader of Congress group in the civic body, was conducted without following the rules governing municipal corporations in Maharashtra.
 
 On May 19, Wanwe replaced Mahakalkar claiming majority of 16 out of 29 Congress corporators in the NMC. Subsequently, divisional commissioner Anoop Kumar appointed of Wanwe, on the basis of numbers of corporators supporting him. Sensing his rival’s move, he had already filed a caveat in the court.
 
 The petitioner challenged commissioner’s orders arguing that once he was appointed with the proper endorsement of the party high command and with full support of all the 29 corporators, there was no way he could be replaced by another faction.
 
 The opposition lawyers informed the court that staying commissioner’s orders wouldn’t make any difference as mayor and municipal commissioner later appointed Wanwe as leader, as per their authority. 
 
 A disappointed Mahakalkar, who has strong backing of city unit President Vikas Thakre and his mentor, ex-MP Vilas Muttemwar, told TOI that he would wait for outcome during next hearing.
 
 Endorsing him, Thakre clarified court proceedings wouldn’t affect his co-option process of becoming the corporation member.
 
 Wanwe, who seemed to be unperturbed by the court’s happenings, told TOI that he would rather be focusing on his new responsibility of NMC’s leader of opposition. 
 
 Senior counsel Surendra Mishra pleaded for Mahakalkar while Wanwe was represented by Anjan De. Gemini Kasat argued for the NCM and   appeared on government’s behalf.
 
 During last hearing, the court issued notices to the divisional commissioner, municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal and Wanwe.
 
