World Heart Day, a global initiative created by the   to better educate citizens about the prevalence of   (CVD), serves as an opportunity for clinicians to review the rapidly evolving patterns in   epidemiology and refocus on the implementation of policies and therapeutic approaches that incorporate healthy lifestyle changes and prioritize CVD prevention.

 CVD accounted for one-third of all deaths in 2015, with nearly 18 million estimated CVD deaths globally, according to the results of a study on the   and cardiovascular mortality from 1990 to 2015, recently published in the Journal of the American College of Cardiology. 
  
 Data from the most recent Global Burden of Disease study, an international consortium of more than 2,300 researchers in 133 nations, revealed that nearly 13 million deaths due to CVD occurred in 1990, increasing to 17.92 million by 2015. However, significant declines in CVD death rates were observed in all high-income and some middle-income countries over the 25-year period. The highest CVD death rates occurred throughout Central Asia, Eastern Europe, Iraq, Afghanistan and many South Pacific island nations; the lowest were seen in Japan, Andorra, Peru, France, Israel and Spain.
 
 Globally, there were an estimated 422.7 million prevalent cases of CVD in 2015, but prevalence varied significantly by country. Countries with the lowest prevalence in 2015, after accounting for population size, included Singapore, Japan, South Korea, Chile, Argentina, Uruguay, Canada and Australia, among others. Western European countries, as well as the U.S., the United Arab Emirates and Nepal, exhibited only slightly higher prevalence. The highest prevalence was observed in West African countries, Morocco, Iran, Oman, Zambia, Mozambique and Madagascar. According to study authors, Gregory Roth, MD, MPH, FACC, et al., the steep declines in CVD prevalence experienced by the U.S., Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, South Korea and countries in Western Europe over the past two decades have begun to plateau.
 
 An estimated 8.92 million deaths due to ischemic heart disease (IHD) occurred in 2015, making IHD the leading cause of death in the world. The highest IHD death rates were observed in Central Asia and Eastern Europe. Globally, stroke and ischemic stroke were the second and third largest CVD causes of disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), a combination of information regarding premature death and disability caused by the condition to provide a summary measure of health lost due to that condition, in 2015. DALYs for ischemic stroke outranked other types of stroke only in Central and Eastern Europe and high-income North America.
 
 "The prevalence of CVD varied widely among countries, and when age-standardized, was declining in many high-income countries," wrote Roth, et al. "Our analysis of mortality and sociodemographic change demonstrates a global disease gradient, dominated by atherosclerotic vascular diseases such as IHD and stroke and with the most rapid decline occurring only at the highest levels of development. An alarming finding is that trends in CVD mortality have plateaued and are no longer declining for high-income regions. Overall, these results demonstrate the importance of increased investment in prevention and treatment of CVD for all regions of the world."
 
 Socio-demographic change over the past 25 years has been associated with dramatic declines in rates of CVD mortality in regions with a very high sociodemographic index, a measure of development status that combines levels of education, fertility and income, while most regions have experienced a gradual decrease, if any at all. The authors note that it is concerning that large reductions in atherosclerotic vascular disease mortality are no longer apparent in many world regions despite impressive advances in technical capacity for preventing and treating CVD.
 
 Moving forward, Roth, et al., explains that "Countries should consider further investment in CVD surveillance and population-based registries in order to benchmark their efforts towards reducing the burden of CVD. Future updates of the GBD study can be used to guide policymakers who are focused on reducing the overall burden of non-communicable disease and achieving specific global health targets."
 
 Educating patients on CVD prevention is essential to combatting the global threat of non-communicable disease. The American College of Cardiology’s ASCVD Risk Estimator Plus mobile application uses the latest science and user feedback to help clinicians and patients build a customized risk-lowering plan by estimating and monitoring change in the patient’s 10-year atherosclerotic  .
 
 Use the app to receive an individualized, risk-based, intervention approach, project the impact of specific interventions on a patient's risk, guide clinician-patient discussion and support your clinical decision making process. Search "ASCVD Risk Estimator Plus" on the web or in your iTunes or Google Play app store to download the app for free. Launch the web version of the app 
 .
 
 
 
 
 
