NAGPUR: In order to bring more uniformity, the central government has decided to formulate new   Rules, 2017, by amending old rules of 2012.

 The department of personnel & training (DoPT) has prepared draft RTI Rules, 2017, in supersession of RTI Rules, 2012, and has invited views and suggestions of the stakeholders concerned on the draft before April 15.
 
 Although major changes are not evident in the draft, the rules seem to be made more specific and will bring uniformity as now proof of service, condonation of delay application and other things will have to be specified.
 
 The new rules now make provision for submission of online appeal before chief information commissioner (CIC) in addition to existing offline appeal. It will also allow filing of non-compliance application by the authorities.
 
 “This appears to have been done to develop pressure on public authority for complying with CIC directions. Such applications can be speedily disposed of by separating it from appeal and complaints,” says RTI activist  .
 
 Earlier, no such provisions were available and hence, appellant had to file complaint under Section 18 for highlighting non-compliance by public authority and it took time owing to pendency of appeals and complaints. Now, time limit has been specified as 90 days for filing such applications.
 
 Another new provision proposed is that in case of death of an appellant, the proceedings before commission shall cease to exist. “I think this is unjustified and legal heirs should be allowed to continue appeal proceeding in line with the provisions pertaining to civil court matters, where legal heirs are permitted,” says Prabhune.
 
 The RTI activist suggested restrictions on number of free copied pages to be provided to a BPL (below poverty line) category person need to be imposed. “This is necessary to avoid ‘misuse’ of provisions by big contractors who file RTI petitions through casual labourers under BPL category,” says Prabhune.
 
 In Maharashtra, the government issued circular on February 1, 2017, on the recommendations of the   (SIC) by making provision to provide information of 50 pages free of cost to BPL category candidates.
 
 “In case of more pages, it has directed to offer inspection to BPL category citizens and provide information only after payment of necessary charges. It will certainly restrict misuse of RTI Act under BPL category. No such provision is evident in the draft rules,” says another RTI activist  .
 
 In the new draft application, fee has been retained as Rs10, which is applicable since inception of RTI. “I feel the fee must be increased to Rs50. This will help reduce unwarranted RTI applications filed by people without any benefit to self or society,” says Prabhune.
 
 The views have to be sent via email to  , under secretary (RTI), North Block (usrti-doptnic.in).
 
