HYDERABAD: The   to book minors driving vehicles and vehicle owners who facilitate this will commence on Monday.

 This was decided on Saturday at a meeting of traffic police and RTA officials. The drive will also focus on autorickshaw drivers and bikers, particularly minors.
 
 Vehicle owners who allow their vehicles to be driven by those not having a licence will also be booked. Though all category of vehicles would be covered under the drive, auto drivers would be on the radar of the traffic cops and RTA teams for the first few days of the drive in the light of a recent accident in which a person was crushed under the wheels of an autorickshaw. The incident caused much embarrassment to the traffic police. 
 
 “The joint teams comprising traffic cops and RTA officials will book cases against all motorists but the focus would be more on autorickshaws and bikes. In case of autorickshaws, we will check and book cases for over-loading, lack of fitness of vehicle, not having permit to run in the city and lack of insurance and driving licence,” said joint transport commissioner  .
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (traffic) AV Ranganath told TOI that another special drive to remove encroachments from footpaths would also be launched simultaneously on Monday. “Photographs and video evidence of the area of footpath encroached upon by the trader or showroom owner or management would be taken and submitted to the court seeking imprisonment,” he said.
 
 Traffic cops, along with   officials, will jointly book cases. To begin with, traffic cops want to focus on big shops encroaching space on the footpaths in front of their shops and showrooms. Managers of malls, showrooms in the city and wholesalers and dealers in   are likely to be the prime target in the first one week. Traffic cops said though the maximum punishment as per Section 402 of GHMC Act is one month, the quantum of punishment will be decided by the judiciary depending upon the extent of area encroached upon by the squatter.
 
 For example, imprisonment for drink driving varies from single day to even 15 days depending upon the blood alcohol levels of the accused. Likewise, the extent of space encroached would be the criteria for deciding the number of days of imprisonment. 
 
