NAGPUR: The rift between Pro-Vice Chancellor Pramod Yeole and department of pharmaceutical sciences of   seems to be only widening.

 This became evident as the Pro-VC’s name is missing from the invitation brochure of the national conference on traditional healers being organized by the department on July 22. It is being jointly held with the   at  .
 
 After the setback in faculty grouping issue, Yeole is learnt to be unhappy with the department, especially its head whom he believes had spearheaded the demand for bringing pharmaceutical sciences under science and technology.
 
 In a series of reports, TOI had highlighted how the inclusion of pharmaceutical sciences in faculty of interdisciplinary studies jeopardized careers of many students. The decision was taken on Yeole’s recommendation. This had led to outcry by students and teachers. The NU had to finally rectify its mistake after government orders.
 
 The episode further strained the ties between Yeole and the department, sources said. They have hit a new low with the department now not printing Yeole’s name.
 
 Besides being the Pro-VC, Yeole’s presence was a given since he has pharmacy background. Names of faculty members   and Prafulla Sabale, who are considered close to him, too are not printed on the brochure.
 
 Yeole said the department head JG Avari and others had come to invite him for both the events. “I would be busy on the day the event is planned, so I can’t go,” he said.
 
 However, sources told TOI that Yeole was not ready to share the dais with Avari in the aftermath of the faculty reorganization row.
 
 Last week too, Yeole had skipped a seminar organized by the department despite being invited. While Kakde had not registered for the seminar, Sabale had attended it.
 
 PR Itankar, convener of the upcoming conference, said, “The Pro-VC was busy during that period so he expressed regret. He was invited for the July 15 seminar too.”
 
 Kakde couldn’t be contacted. Sabale said, “I specialize in chemistry while this conference is on herbals therefore my name is not there.”
 
 Sources said both Kakde and Sabale are generally not in the department and claim to be busy with exam section work assigned by the Pro-VC.
 
 The sour relation between Yeole and the department can gauged from the allegations levelled by a former head too. In his letter to VC SP Kane on June 2, the former head of the department NJ Gaikwad had accused Yeole of threatening principals, teachers and students of pharmacy to give up the demand for re-organizing faculty.
 
