THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Speaker   ruled that there was ‘nothing unparliamentary or defamatory’ in chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s allegation that Shiv Sena’s goons were hired by the   to stage the moral policing act at Marine Drive. The statement has snowballed into a controversy, and the opposition boycotted the assembly sessions on Thursday and Friday.

 “After a detailed examination of the chief minister’s remark and the complaints raised against it by the opposition, the chair is convinced that the former was presenting his political opinion and a suspected circumstance. Besides, there’s no precedence of removing political statements from assembly records,” the speaker told the assembly on Monday, adding that Vijayan’s would remain in the records of the house.
 
 Referring to Congress MLA V D Satheesan’s demand for removal of Vijayan’s controversial remark invoking Rule 307 of procedure and conduct of business in the assembly, the speaker said the particular remark cannot be categorised as unparliamentary or defamatory. “The chair gave opportunity to both the chief minister and the opposition leader to clarify their stands on the issue to their satisfaction,” he added.
 
 Sreeramakrishnan asserted that it was not logical to compare the chief minister’s remark with the one made earlier by the opposition leader (questioning MLA K V Abdul Khader’s interest in the rituals at Sri Krishna Temple, Guruvayur, which was removed from records on ruling members’ demand). The speaker also added that the chair was obliged to prevent any idea or argument presented in the assembly from creating misunderstanding among public or leading to false campaigns
 
 “The chair has the responsibility to remove such a remark, even if it was an unintentional one on the part of the opposition leader. While, raising political statements and allegations are common in the assembly, on which the chair can only give opportunity to give counter statements,” he pointed out.
 
 On Monday, though the issue was raised by the opposition during zero hour, the speaker promised a ruling before the sessions dispersed. As promised, he delivered the ruling just before the day’s session concluded. The opposition is unhappy over the ruling and is set to raise the issue again in the assembly on Tuesday.
 
