In a first, the latest survey by Quacquarelli Symonds, compilers of the QS World University Rankings, has ranked Mumbai among the world’s top 100 student-friendly cities. Mumbai has been placed 85, the highest position for an Indian city on the list, followed by Delhi at 86. From safety and affordability to better employment prospects, Mumbai has emerged as a favourite among students, both within India and abroad. BT got talking to youngsters about what makes Mumbai special for them.
 
 
 
 Nineteen-year-old Natasha Handa, a final year BA student at   college, says, “Apart from the courses that the colleges here have to offer, Mumbai is known for its youth and cosmopolitan culture. I haven’t seen a more vibrant city. Since I come from Jamshedpur, I wanted to make most of the exposure a Metro city offers.”
 
 
 
 Student coordinator Santosh Naik says there’s huge demand for subjects like mass media, communication, PR and advertising. He says, “I receive about 50,000 applications every year. And applicants aren’t restricted to smaller cities and towns. We even have students from Delhi, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Kolkata applying to colleges here.”
 
 
 
 Turkish origin Suden Toprak, a first-year BA student at  , says that it’s the city’s humble attitude that won her over. “I had heard about Mumbai being a top choice for academics, especially for subjects like art and humanities. I know many students who’ve studied here, and they’ve always said the most amazing things about the place. Apart from the fact that education is great, the city warmly welcomes everyone. There is so much to learn from here,” she says. 
 
 
 
 Apart from extracurricular activities and exposure, Mumbai also lures students with high-quality, affordable education. Tukaram Shiware, Chairman of the Non-Government College Principals’ Association, elaborates, “There are around 65 A-grade colleges in Mumbai alone and their fee structure is extremely pocket-friendly. For subjects like BA, B.com and B.sc, these colleges charge only `4,000 per year. This is very less compared to other Metros in India.” 
 
 
 
 Many college students love the fact that Mumbai helps them explore and enhance their hidden talents. Priti Rajvanshi, who has moved from Indore to study mass media at National College, Bandra, says, “When I moved here, I realised that apart from attending classes, students are actively involved in extracurricular activities and college festivals that help them tap their inner talents. I have already 
 started working with a music director and have jointly composed a few jingles with him.”
 
 
 
 While many argue that rents are exorbitant in Mumbai, student counsellor Arvind Gowardhan says, “Most of the hostels in the city are state-owned or class-based. However, many students prefer paying guest (PG) accommodations, as it allows them more freedom. It also helps them to choose a stay closer to their college.” 
 
  Apurba Saha, a final-year B.Sc student at a suburban college, says, “We are a bunch of four boys from Assam and we have a band that sometimes performs at festivals, post college hours. Had we been living in a hostel, practising everyday would have been difficult. Now, each one of us pays `10,000 as rent. It’s not only affordable, but also lets us live the way we want to.”
 
 
 
 With crime against women rising alarmingly across the country, most youngsters find Mumbai a ‘safe’ option. Final year mass media student Archana Kakkar, who moved from Delhi to Mumbai three years ago, says, “During my schooling in Delhi, my parents were always concerned about my safety. While girls step out even post 10 at night here, it’s unthinkable in Delhi. When I spoke to my parents about moving to Mumbai, they agreed instantly.” 
 
 
 
 Money is another major attraction. Compared to other cities, Mumbai offers better financial prospects to its students. Ananya Banerjee, a student of the West Bengal National University of Juridical Sciences (NUJS), who is doing a one-month internship in the city, says, “Kolkata has limited options. In Mumbai, I am interning under a leading law firm for a monthly stipend of `15,000. Had I stayed back in Kolkata or moved elsewhere, I wouldn’t have been able to draw this much money. Mumbai definitely pays better than any other city in the country.”
 
 
 
 Affordability: 30 
 Employer 
 Activity: 40 
 Desirability: 90
 Student View: 74
 
 
 
 1. Montreal, canada 
 2. Paris, france 
 3. London, united kingdom 
 
 
 
