MUMBAI: The man who holds the key to the leadership struggle in   is expected to arrive in Chennai on Thursday. Governor  , who holds joint charge for Maharashtra and TN, is not yet scheduled to meet with the   camp though an appointment was sought through his office after she was elected leader of the AIADMK legislature party. 

  Indications are the governor will wait for the Supreme Court verdict on the appeal against  's acquittal in the disproportionate assets case before he decides on the prospect of swearing her in as CM. The verdict is expected next week. 
 
  "Governor is not in a hurry to take a decision. Since the Supreme Court has announced that the verdict will be pronounced within a week, Vidyasagar Rao will prefer to wait. As of now, there will be no swearing-in event. Heavens are not going to fall if a new person is not sworn in immediately,'' a source close to Raj Bhavan told TOI on Wednesday. 
 
  The source also ruled out the possibility of President's rule in the state, saying there was no void at the moment; caretaker chief minister O Paneerselvam is discharging his duties as political head of state. 
 
 "There is no vacuum. The CM's post is not vacant, there will be no justification for imposition of President's rule,'' was the view put forward by the source. The governor had earlier accepted Panneerselvam's resignation, but the latter has since claimed that the resignation was submitted by him under duress.
 
  Rao's stand to put off the decision is in line with the opinion expressed by constitutional expert and former attorney general Soli Sorabjee, who has said that deferring a decision may be the right legal option for now in view of the extraordinary situation. "Governor can defer the swearing-in till the verdict of the Supreme Court,'' Sorabjee told TOI . 
 
 There are conflicting views on the subject though. Some experts have weighed in on side of the argument that there is no bar on Sasikala's appointment as CM and that the Constitution does not allow the governor much elbow room on the issue as she has been duly picked as leader by the party's legislators. 
 
 But given that the SC judgment in her case is expected soon and that a disqualification could cause further political uncertainty, the governor appears to be taking a cautious approach. The Centre, meanwhile, has chosen to be non-committal allowing events to play out in the state.
 
 A sessions court had on September 27, 2014 convicted then TN chief minister J Jayalalithaa, V K Sasikala and others under the prevention of corruption act. They were sentenced to four year rigorous imprisonment along with a fine.
 
 Karnataka high court had on May 11, 2015 acquitted them, following which the AIADMK supremo was reinstalled as CM. 
 
 
