Bharuch/Surat: Despite being the arterial connect to India’s commercial capital Mumbai, it has been nearly nine years of a cumbersome journey to get a new bridge over Narmada built.

 The first need for an additional bridge arose in 1977 when the old Sardar Bridge because unusable due to large deflection at each cantilever end. The foundation stone of this bridge was laid by then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on January 24, 1970.
 
 Ultimately, the bridge was partially closed for heavy vehicles in 2009 and permanently closed since October 2012 after heavy rains worsened its condition.
 
 Over a period of time, the pre-stressing in the box girders of bridge loosened and bearings near cantilever expansion joints were also damaged. In absence of this bridge, the entire vehicle load fell on the new Sardar Bridge constructed by L&T in 1990. However, with ever increasing traffic, this bridge too did not suffice.
 
 Jivraj Patel, a structural engineer and vice president of Bharuch Citizen Council (BCC) said, "The old Sardar Bridge was constructed using pre-stressing technology, which has been used in at only two other places in the country besides Bharuch. The government has spent a colossal Rs 40 crore to repair this bridge that was ultimately closed.”
 
 BCC, an organization of prominent citizens of the town, has played a pivotal role in abolishing the toll tax just before the bridge at Zadeshwar, which used to worsen the congestion. The government gave in to their agitation in November 2013.
 
 Finally, the foundation stone for construction of a new bridge was laid by then union minister for road and transport CP Joshi on May 1, 2012. Hindustan Construction Co. Ltd was awarded the tender but the company failed to abide by the conditions. Oscar Fernandez, then union minister for road and transport, rushed to Bharuch on August 12, 2013 after senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel dashed off an angry letter expressing his unhappiness over the bridge remaining a non-starter. Finally, after a delay of two years L&T won in the rebidding process.
 
 The traffic jams even became a strong talking point for both the BJP and Congress in 2012 assembly elections and 2014 Lok Sabha polls. Leaders of both parties traded barbs over the delay. 
 
 
