KOCHI: The inspection conducted by national transportation planning and research centre (NATPAC) at   has found that skid resistance on the bridge is lower than the minimum limit fixed as per the British Pendulum Number (BPN).

 Skid resistance is the frictional resistance at the interface between a vehicle tyre and the road surface. The skid resistance on the bridge is below the international BPN threshold of 45 for a wet road.
 
 The lower skid resistance will cause vehicles to lose control and cause accidents, especially in wet conditions. 
 
 Officials conducted the inspection using the British Pendulum tester. The inspection was conducted last week following the death of four people in an accident on the bridge last month.
 
 Following the accident, the   had asked public works department (NH wing) to conduct a road safety audit on the stretch.
 
 The number of accidents on the 24-km stretch of NH between Varapuzha and Moothakunnam had increased.
 
 “The lower skid resistance can be caused due to many reasons. If the quantity of bitumen exceeds from the permissible level for pavement laying, the bitumen will come out of the surface. It is called ‘pavement bleeding’. We found this issue towards the end of the bridge facing the toll,” said a scientist who was part of the inspection.
 
 “Pavement bleeding can be solved by relaying the surface before the onset of monsoon. We have completed the audit and need to analyse it. The accidents on this highway can be brought down by evicting illegal vendors, removing advertisement boards and curtailing the truck movement. The public should be careful and prevent speeding,” said Subin B, a Natpac scientist.
 
 Road safety authorities were also part of preparing the audit report. They also looked into the vehicle density on the stretch and the accident-prone areas. Police told officials that there were more than 20 accident-prone areas from Varapuzha to Moothakunnam. 
 
 Under Varapuzha police station limit, there are six accident-prone areas, including the bridge and   where two elderly people lost their life in an accident when a truck rammed an autorickshaw recently.
 
 In north Paravur police limit, 10 accidents-prone areas are there and five under the Vadakkekara police.
 
 The officials also found that many heavy vehicles were not using the Vallarpadam road to reach Thrissur. Instead, they were plying on Varapuzha – Moothakunnam-Kodungallur road to reach Thrissur to avoid toll in Paliyekkara plaza in Pudukkad.
 
