NEW DELHI: Some Pakistanis have now begun to ask questions about why Indian national   was 
  

 This soul-searching comes a day after the   ( ) ruled that 
  pending its decision in the case filed by India.
 
 Since Jadhav's arrest last year in March, India asked Pakistan as many as 16 times for consular access to the Indian national. It wasn't granted that access even once.
 
 
 
 "Who gave the opinion to deny consular access to Jadhav in the first place," asked Pakistani rights activist  , reported Dawn today.
 
 "Will it not endanger the rights of the prisoners languishing in Indian jails? Can one change international law?" Jahangir further asked.
 
 An eminent Pakistani lawyer echoed Jahangir's question.
 
 "Pakistan should have provided Kulbhushan with the consular access from the start," said lawyer Yasser Latif Hamdani to DunyaNews.
 
 "The ICJ was not going to say don't give consular access", Hamdani said.
 
 The lawyer further justified the ICJ's decision to deliver a quick ruling a mere 10 days after India filed its case at the Hague court.
 
 Hamdani told DunyaNews that the ICJ took up India's matter on an urgent basis because Pakistan hadn't assured it that it wouldn't "hang Jadhav before the hearing is over. Hence this stay order."
 
 Yesterday, the ICJ agreed that 
  was indeed an issue because Pakistan denying it was a violation of the Vienna Convention. India and Pakistan do have a "dispute" on the matter, ICJ president   observed.
 
 As for what Hamdani was talking about in relation to Jadhav's hanging, the ICJ ruled yesterday that there is the possibility of "irrevocable prejudice to the rights of Jadhav." That is, the ICJ agreed that it is possible Jadhav may be hanged before its verdict.
 
 In its plea to the court, India, represented by lawyer  , had expressed the fear that Jadhav might be executed even while the hearing at the ICJ was on.
 
 Jadhav, a former Navy officer, was arrested in March 2016 from Balochistan, Pakistan claimed. He was awarded the death sentence by a Pakistani military court on April 10 this year for alleged espionage and subversive activities.
 
 India stated that Jadhav was kidnapped from Iran where he was involved in business activities after retiring from the Indian Navy.
 
 
