GUWAHATI: States in the   have asked the   to step up the presence of   in five contiguous districts in   and  . These districts, they said, have emerged as the hub of the last remaining militants in the region. 

 "We have apprised the home minister of the security situation in the northeast and informed him that all militant activities are being controlled from Arunachal's Tirap, Changlang and Longding districts, and Nagaland's Mon and Tuensang districts," said a top security official who participated in the northeast security review meeting by Union home minister Rajnath Singh in New Delhi on Tuesday. "We requested him to increase the presence of central intelligence agencies and security forces in these districts," the official added.
 
  According to the MHA report at the review meeting, the security situation in Arunachal Pradesh (the three districts) and Manipur remains a subject of concern, though relatively less than it has been in the past. 
 
 These five districts also border as many districts of Assam on the other side, including Tinsukia district, where the anti-talks Ulfa (I) is active and has been carrying out strikes jointly with Meitei outfits of Manipur. "The biggest advantage of these five districts is their proximity to the NSCN (K)-controlled areas of Myanmar and their highly difficult terrain, which makes patrolling a difficult task for security agencies," the official said.
 
 The MHA on May 4 extended the term of Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act in Tirap, Changlang and Longding districts in Arunachal Pradesh for three more months, along with few more areas of Arunachal Pradesh falling within police stations bordering Assam.
 
 The central notification states that the three Arunachal districts continue to remain 'disturbed areas' because "NSCN (IM) is contriving to dominate areas hitherto occupied by NSCN (K) and is resorting to intimidation and extortion, NSCN (R) is also active has been focusing on recruiting local youth, NSCN (NK) has managed to gain a foothold in Longding district and is engaging in extortion and abduction". It adds, "Ulfa (I) ... has started indulging in extortion in certain pockets along the Arunachal-Assam boundary, movements of NDFB (S) and NDFB (R) cadres along Arunachal-Assam boundary have been noticed for escaping counter insurgency operations and for movement to/from Myanmar."
 
 
