KOCHI: Despite owning vast expanses of land, buildings and other moveable and immovable properties, Kochi corporation doesn't have proper assets register. The corporation also doesn't have any idea on many issues such as length of roads owned by the local body. So, it is high time the corporation conducted a social audit on identifying its assets, sources of revenue, population, etc.
The audit should be conducted at each division with the help of people residing in the area. Councillors representing the division, residents, NGOs and officials of the corporation can be members of the group which is to conduct the social auditing.
 
 “The length of   at Thevara is almost 3.5km. But, as per the assets register maintained by the corporation, the length of the road is just 1.8km. This narrates how inaccurate are the records maintained by the local body,“ said  , councillor from   division.
 
 “When I inquired about the number of vehicles owned by the corporation, authorities didn't have any answer. The case of streetlights, KWA water taps are also the same,“ he said.
 
 Squads in each division should prepare a comprehensive record which contains as much details regarding the civic body as possible.
 
 Number of households, shops,  , alienated assets like land and buildings owned the corporation, underutilized assets of the civic body, number of roads and their length, alignment of water supply pipes, streetlights, hoardings erected by advertisers, population in the division, their jobs etc can be identified by the division-level squads.
 
 “The squads can suggest the number of professional tax payers in the area. Giving the exact number of hoardings, unauthorized buildings, number of shops and households will help plug the leak of tax revenue,“ said Peter.
 
 “Meeting to be attended by mayor, deputy mayor, standing committee chairpersons, secretary and other important officials should be convened in each division at least once a year,“ he said.
 
 Once a division-wise data bank of assets, utilities, buildings etc is prepared, it should be scrutinized by a committee comprising members of ruling front, opposition, councillors from the respective divisions, experts in town planning, engineering, waste management, health, etc. While preparing the list of alienated or underutilized assets, the squad in each division should give suggestions on how to use them in better manner.
 
