Earlier this month, the   conducted an exercise for the first time ever – asking its officers their choice of posting before shuffling them. The move, done in a bid to be more officer-friendly, asked circle officers or deputy superintendent-rank officers for a list of five districts where they wanted postings, were to be transferred. It revealed something many in the state policing circles have always maintained – that Noida (  district) is the preferred posting for UP Police personnel, followed by Ghaziabad and Lucknow. But despite the option of bigger cities like state capital Lucknow, Agra and Varanasi, and even more ‘lucrative’ ones such as Meerut and Allahabad, what makes Noida the top choice for the state cops? We had some officers, who’ve spent time in the district, tell us the reasons for Noida being every UP cop’s dream posting destination.

 
 The geographical proximity to Delhi is cited as the biggest reason by most cops for Noida’s status as the number 1 posting choice. Officers say that only in a Noida posting can you virtually live in Delhi without actually living in the national capital. An IPS officer who was posted in Noida as SP a few years ago says, “It’s the closest UP city to Delhi, not just geographically but also in terms of lifestyle and character. Living in Noida is almost like living in Delhi. Most of my circle was in the capital when I was posted there. A Noida posting is the only way a UP cop gets to live in Delhi, apart from a central deputation, which happens rarely.” An SP-level officer from the region tells us, “In some aspects, Noida is even better than Delhi. It has markets, malls and multiplexes, with less traffic and better roads. Officers would naturally prefer such a modern city in their postings. Ab kaam toh har jagah karna hi hai. The crime rate and manpower shortage are pretty much the same across the state. You can at least try and be in a good city for a few years.”
 
  
  
 
 
 Many officers say they prefer NCR because of the good higher education institutions in the region. A former circle officer from   says, “The schools here are quite good, and there is no shortage of good private colleges either. In fact, if you talk about colleges, Delhi University bhi hai yahan. Bachchon ki education ke liye perfect city hai yeh.”
 
 
  Picture for representational purposes only
 
 
 For many officers, the choice is influenced by the relatively low crime rate in the district’s ‘rural’ areas. “Every district has two SPs – SP (City) and SP (Rural). Most officers don’t want postings in rural areas as that involves keeping a check on the hinterland, which is crime-prone. In Gautam Budh Nagar district, however, SP (Rural) is in charge of Greater Noida and Dadri, which are urban areas. In many ways, Greater Noida is quieter than even Noida,” says a senior officer who has spent three years in Noida in the late 2000s.
 
  
  
 
 
 Cops say that Noida is not only one of the few metros in the state, it also has the added advantage of not having senior cops like the IG and ADG there. A DSP-level officer, who’s spent three years in Noida, tells us, “Noida is the only metro city in the state where you don’t have very senior officers. Lucknow has the entire PHQ with the top-most officers. Even places like Agra, Varanasi and Kanpur are zone headquarters with an IG and a DIG. Since Noida falls under the Meerut zone, the senior-most officer here is an SSP. So for any cop who wants to be posted in a big city without being under the watchful eyes of senior officers, this is the ideal city.” Officers add that the combination of being in a big city without having big-city responsibilities is unique to Noida. An officer posted in the district says, “The only other city in the state that matches Noida in terms of infrastructure and lifestyle is Lucknow. But Lucknow has added pressures, being the state capital, since all the seniors in the department, bureaucracy and government sit there. Noida is far away from the power centre and hence is considered much more ‘relaxed’.”
 
  
  
 
