KOCHI: The Aluva police on Monday arrested a 21-yearold man for abusing a minor girl after promising to marry her. The arrested has been identified as P S Shamzeer of   in Thrissur. The incident came to light recently when the minor girl left for Bengaluru without informing her parents in Edathala.

 According to police, the abuse happened last year when the girl was only 16 years old.
 
 Recently , the girl had given her gold chain to her old boyfriend, who is currently behind bars in a theft case.When her parents came to know about the incident, they insisted her to get it back.
 
 Last month, the girl left for Bengaluru believing that friends of the boy could help her to get the chain back.
 
 On January 30, family of the girl registered a missing complaint with the police.They brought the girl back to Kochi and conducted a medical test. It was then the girl narrated the incident to the doctor about the sexual abuse involving Shamzeer, who is now working in Ernakulam.
 
 Shamzeer was working in a company near the victim's house. Police brought Shamzeer to the station and arrested him. He was produced in the court and remanded to jail.
 
 
 
 
 The North paravur police on Monday arrested six people in connection with sexually abusing three minor girls, who are studying in a private school in Koonammavu. The arrested -Anup, Midhun, Vishnu and Akhil -were produced in court and remanded in custody . The rest two are minors and they were sent to juvenile home.
 
 According to police, the girls came in contact with the accused at bus stop and later through mobile.
 
 
 
 
 The Mulavukadu police have registered a case under the Pocso Act against a 38year-old man for allegedly sexually harassing an eightyear-old girl. The case has been registered against Shagi. He is at large since the incident came to light on Monday morning.
 
 The police said the girl was classmate of his son. The man allegedly sexually harassed the girl on two occasions.
 
 The incident came to light when school authorities conducted a counselling in which the girl revealed the incident.The case has been registered based on the complaint of PTA.
 
 
 
 
 The central police on Monday arrested a 55-year-old man for stealing mobile phone from KSRTC bus stand in Ernakulam. The police said the accused, Jahangir of Thiruvananthapuram, is a historysheeter. “He was released from jail 14 days ago in a pick-pocketing case in   limit. He also faces several cases registered at various police stations in the state,“ said the police.
 
