LUDHIANA: Taking a dig at government apathy, city residents are going to mourn the death anniversary of one portion of the Jagraon Bridge on Sunday. A bunch of city-based NGOs will pay tributes in a one-hour programme at Jagraon Bridge. The members have organized the event just to make the administration realize that it has been one year since the closure of the bridge, and in a whole year, the authorities could not arrange funds for the construction of just one portion.

 The members will also send condolence letters to local bodies minister Navjot Sidhu, deputy commissioner Pradeep Aggarwal, MC commissioner  , and railway authorities as well, because Jagraon Bridge was their son. The members of NGOs like Sambhav Foundation, Ludhiana Cares, I am NGO, Transformation of City (TOC), and Hum Log are coming together to wake up the government and local authorities.
 
 One of the founder-members of Sambhav Foundation, Rahul Verma, said on July 14, it would be one year since the railways closed one part of Jagraon Bridge, declaring it unsafe for the movement of traffic. He said it does not take such a long time to execute the work, no matter what the nature of the work is. Verma said their move was just an attempt to shake officials, who are indifferent to the requirements of city residents.
 
 Another member from Transformation of City, Ravi  , said the local bodies minister was busy suspending officials, instead of paying attention to development works. He demanded that in one year, MC kept delaying payment to railways, and the cost would increase gradually with the passage of time.
 
 One of the members from Hum Log,  , said they were appealing to residents to be a part of this initiative, so that it became an eye-opener for the administration, and they should arrange funds for the construction of the bridge, which is a lifeline for the city. Meanwhile, Jaskiran Singh said they were trying hard to arrange funds, and they have talked with the excise department and transport department over the issue. He shared that they would be able to make payments only when funds were arranged. 
 
 Notably, the MC has to pay Rs24.30 crore to railways for the re-construction work of one side. Also, the MC needs Rs1.87 crore for construction of approach roads for the bridge. The total cost of the project has already escalated to Rs26.17 crore, and in case the departments kept delaying the work, the cost would increase again. However, Congress MLA Sanjay Talwar said he, along with local MP Ravneet Bittu, and MLA Bhushan Ashu, had requested Sidhu to allocate funds for Jagraon Bridge, and Sidhu had agreed in principle for the same. He said the minister would make an announcement shortly.
 
 Sidhu said: “The re-construction of Jagraon Bridge is on our top priority, and very shortly, there will be some good news for residents regarding this bridge. Even the local MLAs had brought this to my knowledge, and funds will be arranged.” 
 
 
