PUNE:   care two hoots about   or   when they stop at random spots on the Pune-Mumbai expressway even though halting is strictly banned in these fast lanes. 

 As many as 2,951 people who were pulled up had to pay a fine of Rs 200 each for halting on the expressway in the last seven months. Many cited reasons ranging from the urge to relieve themselves to catching a glimpse of Gahunje stadium and stopping to watch the panoramic views of the valleys in Lonavla and Khandala.
 
 Additional director general of police (traffic) R K Padmanabhan and superintendent of police (Highway Safety Patrol, Pune) Amol Tambe have taken stern action against the motorists who have flouted the ‘No Halting’ rule.
 
 A huge drive to check rule breakers was taken up in May as many motorists were on the expressway to commute between the two cities in the vacation and police fined 1,076 motorists.
 
 The HSP has two police chowkies on the expressway at Khandala and Vadgaon Maval. Policemen keep patrolling the Pune-Mumbai expressway and fine the motorists on the spot where they have halted. 
 
 In January, police had fined only three motorists and in February and March, no action was reported. The number increased to 724 in April and further to 1,076 in May. In June police fined 434 motorists and in July, police fined 714 motorists. 
 
 Details of the action taken by Khandala chowkey for June and July were not available.
 
 A senior police officer told TOI that the number is higher in the rainy season as police have fined many persons in the Khandala ghat section for halting. “The data is being tabulated,” the officer said, adding that it would be over 500 for both the months,” the officer said.
 
 The motorists generally halt at a spot near Gahunje stadium (on the Mumbai corridor), at different secluded spots, beneath the bridges or over the bridges, near petrol pumps or food malls and in the ghat sections to watch the waterfalls in Khandala valley or to take selfies.
 
 Family members or friends, who are travelling in two separate cars, were generally seen halting in one of the cars on the expressway while the other car entered the petrol pump or the food mall. Isolated spots are used by motorists to relieve themselves though toilets are available at the authorised stops at the food malls on both the corridors, police said.
 
 The ghat section, where lanes are narrow, often turns into traffic bottlenecks due to such illegal stops taken by motorists. 
 
 
