The recent government notification might have made paying   while eating out optional, but the added charge will still find its way in your bill in Noida. If you thought that restaurants would voluntarily remove the service charge from your bills, you might want to pay closer attention to the bill when you eat out in Noida next. Restaurants in the major markets and malls of the city continue to levy service charge, albeit with the assurance that they will remove it if and when a customer asks for it. And asking for it to be removed is not easy, particularly with the restaurant staff ‘insisting’ that guests recognise their 'good service'. In fact, despite the government notification, restaurants and cafes in Noida have not yet put up any notices or signboards about the service charge issue. The management at most restaurants in Sector 18 and nearby malls say they are clueless about how to proceed, as they haven't received any written intimation regarding service charge being optional now. Only a few eateries have actually done away with service charge completely, and most choose to play the wait-and-watch game.

 
  
 Restaurants in Sector 18 are yet to put up notices or signs regarding service charge being optional. While some say they are in the process of formalising the procedure and that it will take a few days, others attribute it to a lack of clarity in the absence of a formal written notification. Staff and management at restaurants in Sector 18 say that because there's no formal notice or message from the government, they are simply going by what their owners have told them. A staff member at   tells us, "There hasn't been any written notification, we've just seen it on the news so far. But still, the owners and management have told us to levy service charge, but to remove it from the bill if the customer insists. However, we aren't specifically telling customers that they have such an option. It's all in the news, so everyone knows anyway." At   in a Sector 18 mall, there was no notice or sign up as yet, and service charge is still part of the bill. Restaurant staff say that they have no intimation from the management about removing service charge. They do so on request occasionally, since they do not want a scene in the restaurant.
 
 
 
 Restaurant managers say that it will take some time to remove service charge from their bills, and for now, they are continuing with temporary measures. "It will take some time to get service charge removed from the billing software and to include a one-liner regarding it being optional on the menu. For now, we are adding service charge in the bill, but if a customer objects, we remove it without any argument," says Manish, manager of Dhaba at Atta.
 Staff at Desi Vibes say that initially, they refused to do away with service charge because they hadn't heard from their bosses, but eventually relented under the barrage of such requests from customers. "The very evening this was announced, we had guests coming with screenshots of the notification or links to the news coverage, asking why we had added service charge to the bills. We simply told them that so far, we had no information about it. From the next day on, nobody was ready to listen and we had to remove it from several bills," says a staff member at the restaurant. Some restaurants in the area say that they were slow to react because they were waiting to see if this would be rolled back, as there was no official notification. A staff member from Cafe Delhi Heights says, "There was talk that since there is no written notification yet, it might be rolled back. We don't know for certain, but till there is some clarity, we won’t change our policy." The restaurant continued to add service charge in its bills, and there was no sign or notice about the charge's optionality.
 
 
 
 But while others remained uncertain about making service charge optional,   was the only eatery in Sector 18 to proudly proclaim that they won’t be levying it anymore. A big board outside the restaurant read, ‘No Service Charge, Govt Taxes as Applicable.’ "It's clear that the customers don’t want to pay service charge, so why impose it on them? Making it optional confuses the customers and the staff, so we have done away with it entirely. It’s also a good and positive marketing strategy for the restaurant," says a member of the restaurant’s management team.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Restaurant managers say that a sizable number of their customers are asking for service charge to be removed from their bills. Rawat, manager of  , says, "On Wednesday alone, we waived off service charge from about a dozen bills when customers asked. This number will only go up as more people become aware of the rule. Most of the bills on which people ask for service charge to be removed are bigger ones, above Rs 2,000 or so."
 Customers say that since it’s their discretion now, it makes dining cheaper and more convenient. Sanjiv Malhotra, who was dining at Kaffiiaa, says, "Service charge should always be at the discretion of the customer. Earlier, restaurants would argue that it is mandatory. I had a case where one restaurant wouldn’t let me leave without paying a service charge. At that point, you don’t want to create a scene or threaten to call the cops for a few hundred rupees. I’m glad that now we have official word on it, and restaurants won’t be able to do their manmaani."
 Ravish, a student who had eaten at Mumbai Matinee recently, says, "I went there with three friends and our bill was around Rs1,600. We asked the staff to remove the service charge from it since it’s now optional, and they did so easily. It’s just a way to fleece customers. It saves us about Rs 200, so why shouldn’t we opt for it?"
 
 
 
 Some customers say that they're still willing to pay a service charge – provided the service is actually good. Akanksha, a student who ate at a restaurant in a nearby mall, says, "We asked them to remove the service charge from our bill, and the waiter politely asked us, ‘Kyun madam, service mein kuch kharaabi thi?’ Since they were so nice, hamara mann hi nahin hua phir deduct karane ka."
 Dinkar Agarwal, who dined at   recently, says, "The service was quite good and the staff was courteous. I didn’t ask them to remove service charge even though I had that option because I felt they had earned it."
 
 
