UNNAO: State government's tall claims about   having seen the smoothest acquisition ever in UP holds a ring of truth for those whose land paved the way for 302 km long eway. But there are certain quarters (especially in Unnao district) where farmers' land has been taken away to construct service lanes without paying them any compensation till date. Many farmers have complained their lands have been “grabbed“ without proper registration.

 The expressway is already being used by public, while the nearby villages are still not connected with it.To provide connectivity to these rural areas, government is also constructing service lanes on both sides. Farmers of nearby villages complain that in most cases, their land has been acquired without registration while in other cases where registration was already done, contractor has seized more land than permissible limits as mentioned in the papers.
 
 Disgruntled farmers sitting in a group under a neem tree in   show photos and maps of their   were taken by the contractor for constructing service lanes without seeking permission. Shiv Shankar, an old farmer in Nasirabad said, “I got Rs 13.25 lakh for 15 biswa land on the main e-way but not a single penny for 5 biswa land acquired for construction of service lanes. Land has been grabbed forcefully without carrying registration process.“
 
 The farmers have made many rounds to the lehkpal and SDM's office in the past but got no satisfactory reply.  , a farmer in Haibatpur told TOI, “The kind of swiftness administration showed while giving compensation for land taken for the main e-way is lacking in paying for service lanes. I have visited lehkpal of fice many times but he always tells me that government clearance for registration has yet to come.“
 
 TOI inquired with the Unnao district magistrate Surendra Singh about land discrepancy . He said, “There could be few cases where farmers have not received compensation for their land acquired for service lanes and they should visit immediately the SDM office to register complaint. We will take swift action.“
 
 He clarified that in most cases, the acquisition for service lane was done during the time of acquisition of main e-way and same contractor was deployed for constructing e-way and service lane of that area. Villagers, however, complained there are many areas where the contractor has grabbed more land than permissible limit shown in registry papers.
 
 Jwala Prasad of Gauriya Kala village of Unnao told TOI, “The contractor has exceeded limit while acquiring my land. He has taken more land than allowed officially for constructing service lane. I have even filed suit against him. In my village, 12-15 farmers are facing the same problem.“ In reply to this complaint, Singh said if contractors are constructing on more than permissible limit, they will be made to pay penalty to the farmers.
 
