AURANGABAD: Possible spells of heavy showers in the catchment and upstream areas could spill out water from   dam, one of the largest irrigation projects in the country, officials have informed.

 Nathsagar, the dam reservoir, was filled to over 87% of live storage capacity by Monday evening. “There are chances of heavy to very heavy rainfall in   and   areas during next few days, which could escalate the water level in the dam. Therefore, we have sounded alert in downstream areas about the imminent water release,” dam in-charge, A H Chavan, said on Monday.
 
 The Godavari River flowing through tail-end areas, Jayakwadi downstream have somewhat dry stretches at certain places and the Irrigation department has also specifically warned people form these areas to remain wary about possible water release as the dry river bed shelter many houses. The dam, which is lifeline to   and parts of  , was holding more than 66% live storage during last year’s corresponding period.
 
 The authorities have sounded similar alert in some of the low lying areas from Latur district as irrigation projects, other than major ones, have been nearly filled.
 
 Meanwhile, acting on inputs from the meteorological department, the divisional authorities have issued rainfall alert at many places of Marathwada till September 22.
 
 As forecast suggests, this monsoon could overcome the rainfall deficit for the region comprising eight districts. Marathwada has been showing nearly 7% rainfall deficiency in September till date, while progressive deficiency of Monsoon has reached around 15%.
 
 Incidentally, three drought-prone districts have been showing surplus rainfall, while remaining five have recorded Monsoon deficit.
 
 Osmanabad (110%), Beed (107%) and Latur (100%) have been showing occurrence of more than rainfall so far. On the other hand, both Hingoli and Parbhani have been showing around 30% deficit, followed by Parbhani (28%) and Aurangabad (21%). The latest showers have brought down Monsoon deficit in remaining Jalna district to marginal 4%.
 
 The   (IMD) had also issued a forecast of heavy rainfall at isolate places in Aurangabad, Parbhani, Hingoli, Latur, Jalna, Osmanabad, Beed and Nanded districts during past 48-hours.
 
 As far as city is concerned, the meteorological department has predicted generally cloudy sky with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers over Aurangabad during next 48-hours.
 
 
