VADODARA: The   (WRMS) and supervisors of all departments of   division on Monday staged a demonstration at the   (DRM) office at Pratapnagar demanding that a   who was removed from the service be immediately reinstated. 

 The railway union has threatened to stage similar demonstrations at Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Ratlam divisions on Tuesday. “Rakesh Kumar, a senior section engineer was removed from service by Vadodara DRM Amit Kumar Singh on March 3 without giving any chargesheet and an opportunity to defend the charges, said JG Mahurkar, general secretary of WRMS and vice-president of  . 
 
 “The actual defaulter are the contractor’s men who started working on the track between Makarpura-Varnama where the work of total fitting renewal was being done. This work is to be done only in presence of section engineer as per rules. But Kumar was not there because he was deputed for another work at Kashipura,” said Mahurkar. According to the union office-bearers, Rakesh Kumar was directed by a senior officer to stop work at the site and proceed to Kashipura for taking measurement after which he left the site. But the contractor’s labour in violation of all safety rules started going the total fitting renewal work in absence of Rakesh Kumar. 
 
 “Instead of lodging FIR against the contractor for endangering safety of Shatabdi Express which had started from Vadodara station for Mumbai Central, the railway administration has crucified Rakesh Kumar by removing him in an unconstitutional manner,” said Mahurkar. 
 
 Rakesh Kumar has been removed under rule 14 (2) under Disciplinary and Appeal Rule without giving him a chance to defend, he said. 
 
 Singh, however, told TOI that all the actions have been taken under prescribed rules and regulations. “We have taken action against all the people who were found responsible for the incident. This are departmental level actions for which there are laid down rules. All the decisions have been taken based on facts,” he said. 
 
