CHENNAI: The state   has slapped notices on more than 500   and   who signed a bond promising to serve the government but reneged on it. These doctors may have to pay up to Rs 20 lakh as fine if they don’t don’t join duty, mostly in rural hospitals and PHCs.

 Heads of various hospitals and departments found that for more than six years now, several doctors haven’t either joined duty or have been absent without leave or approval before completing their term. “The bond was introduced so we can have non-service doctors work in government hospitals for at least two years. They are experienced and are posted to rural and difficult areas so people there can benefit. But we found several people haven’t even joined duty. We are asking them why we should not initiate revenue recovery procedure against them,” said director of medical education Dr A Edwin Joe. Noticies will be issued to at least 100 more doctors in the next few weeks, he said.
 
 The government was forced to act as it was unable to reserve 50% of PG seats for government doctors after introduction of NEET, say senior doctors. “Now, students from across the state will enter government colleges where the clinical experience is rich and the fee is subsidised. If we mandate them to serve in the government for at least two years, we will have a steady stream of experienced doctors. Else there will be an acute shortage,” said TN Government Doctors’ Association president Dr K Senthil.
 
 Until 2016, non-service candidates admitted to government-run medical colleges at a subsidized fee 10 times lower than private colleges and deemed universities were asked to execute a bond with sureties for up to Rs 10 lakh on admission to PG diploma courses and up to Rs 20 lakh (changes every year) on admission to PG degree and super-speciality courses such as neurosurgery with an undertaking to serve the government for a period of not less than two years, in the posting issued.
 
 If a candidate is unable to work in   for the specified period the bond has to be credited to the government along with the stipend received. These doctors are paid a salary on a par with fresh recruits of the state medical services. 
 
 The notices issued are showing results, said director of medical services Dr P Bhanu. “At least eight doctors have joined duty in districts already.”
 
