KOCHI: Even as the commissioner of   rail safety (CMRS) begins inspection of   from Aluva to   on Wednesday, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) speeds up the works between Palarivattom and Maharaja’s College. A team of   officials inspected the progress of the work on this stretch.

 “We want to complete the work up to Maharaja’s College by September. As of the now, the track laying works are over. The traction work is in progress, and we expect to complete it by May-end. Then signalling work will have to be taken up,” said a DMRC official. 
 
 He also said that structure works of the Metro stations between Palarivattom and Maharaja’s College were over.
 
 DMRC officials said that the decision regarding awarding of various contracts for works between Maharaja’s College and Pettah was expected by May-end.
 
 Meanwhile, K A Manoharan (Bengaluru southern circle of the CMRS) and his team began inspection. KMRL managing director received the team at Aluva station. They are in the city to conduct a three-day scrutiny of Kochi Metro as part of the procedures before the commissioning of Metro train operations. 
 
 KMRL said that they were ready with the safety reports issued by various agencies and all required documents for CMRS inspection.
 
 “Our senior officials explained the details to CMRS and his team. On the first day, the officials inspected the Metro viaduct, track and stations from Aluva to Muttom. This included stations at Aluva, Pulinchuvadu, Companypady, Ambattukavu and Muttom,” said KMRL spokesperson. 
 
 She said that on Thursday, the team would inspect the track, viaduct and stations from Kalamassery to  . 
 
 On the final day, they would check flawless operation and safety on the Edappally - Palarivattom stretch. They would also analyze the work and operation of operation control centre (OCC) and other facilities at the  , said the spokesperson.
 
 “Once the clearance of CMRS is obtained, the Kochi Metro will attain the status of being the first Metro project in the country to be commissioned within the shortest time span,” said a KMRL official. However, regarding completion of works on the Aluva-Palarivattom stretch, the DMRC said that they had completed almost all works at stations except those at Edappally and Changampuzha Park.
 
 “This will not be a hindrance for CMRS inspection. All the works will be over by June,” said the DMRC official adding that once they complete the works, KMRL will have to undertake remaining works such as doing interiors and exteriors of the building.
 
