PANAJI: Two brothers from the village of Uguem in Pernem –   and   – are facing criminal action after their plot to deny their sister her share in the family property backfired. 

 When the government initiated the process to acquire 19,600sqm land owned by the Mahales in the Uguem village, for the Mopa international airport, the brothers had submitted that they were the only legal heirs.
 
 Their chicanery, however, came to light after the office of special land acquisition officer investigated into the complaint received from thier sister,   alias Sushila Mahale.
 
 The special land acquisition officer has written to PI Pernem police station to register a FIR against the two. The directorate of civil aviation has also directed the brothers to refund the compensation received. 
 
 The Mahale brothers submitted documents stating that both their parents - mother,   and father, Ganesh Mahale - were deceased. They also produced documents before the special land acquisition officer, Mopa airport cell, to prove their case. The death certificates of both parents and affidavit-cum-indemnity bond were submitted.
 
 Accordingly, in 2011, the land acquisition officer had paid each brother Rs 7.74 lakh as compensation. In February 17, 2016, Aruna Tilve informed the office of the land acquisition officer that she was the daughter of Rukmani and Ganesh, and, as such, one of the legal heirs.
 
 The enquiry was initiated after her complaint. The office of the land acquisition officer sent letters to the brothers seeking their reply, but the letters were returned ‘unread’. The brothers had refused to accept them.
 
 The sister also submitted a copy of deed of succession that proved that she was legal heir of late Ganesh Mahale and substantiated her claim that her brothers had received compensation by misrepresenting facts.
 
 A land official said they were satisfied with the documents submitted by Tilve. 
 
 After the office of the directorate of civil aviation was intimated about this, on January 5, it directed Harischandra and Tukaram to refund the compensation amount.
 
 “The government decided to lodge a FIR against the two and initiate criminal proceedings,” an officer said.
 
