KOCHI:   is a place of tourist importance, thanks to its rich heritage which dates back to Portuguese, Dutch and British colonial period. But much of its heritage lies buried in the thick layer of neglect thanks to apathy shown by departments of  , tourism and  . 

 Around Rs seven crore was spent on renovation of   in Fort Kochi for converting it into a heritage museum. Even after a year of completing the work the authorities could not manage to open the museum for the public. "Once it is opened for public, the bungalow can attract a lot of tourists, especially foreigners. But the authorities continue with their apathetic attitude," said Antony Kureethra, former councillor and president of Tourism Promoters Association, Kochi. 
 
 According to the officials with archaeology department, which maintains the museum, they are yet to install galleries displaying heritage of Kochi. A nodal agency was selected for setting up the museum but they are yet to start collecting material having heritage value. "Such objects are to be displayed in the heritage galleries. In absence of the galleries, it is just a structure," said P G Laljee, local historian and medical practitioner. "The building was originally constructed by Portuguese. Later, Dutch took it over from the Portuguese. And finally, British took it over from the Dutch," he said.
 
 Though the officials with the archaeology department have collected some objects which are to be displayed in the galleries, they are not sufficient even for a single gallery. According to sources, the nodal agency was paid a huge remuneration. "We will have to collect the objects to be displayed in the gallery. We will be collecting such objects and open the museum soon for the public," said J Rejikumar, director, archaeology department. He had no answer to the question why the nodal agency couldn't collect the objects.
 
 Authorities are paying little attention for the upkeep of other places of heritage importance. "Tourists are not allowed inside the Dutch cemetery. It is certainly one of the most important tourist destination in Kochi." said Laljee. "Many foreign tourists would like to see the tombs in the cemetery. There are inscriptions in Portuguese language on the tombs," he said.
 
 The same is the case with Vasco da Gama square, which has been encroached by street vendors. Steam boilers of a dredger installed near the walkway have also rusted, but no efforts are being taken to protect them.
 
