AMRITSAR: The unresolved issue of the Bhagtanwala garbage dump is raising a stink again. The area residents, in order to draw the government’s attention to the long-drawn issue, are planning to resort to protest once more. They have been seeking removal and relocation of the dump away from the residential areas for the past many years.

 “Our patience is now running out. Like the previous government, every leader is only giving verbal assurances but there is no work seen on the ground. During rainy days, the dump becomes marshy and make us susceptible to various diseases,” president of joint action committee (JAC) for the shifting of the dump,   told TOI.
 
 He said if the government didn’t take quick action, they would be left with no option but to resume their agitation and start a dharna again. Kurl said instead of shifting dump, garbage of the whole city was being thrown at Bhagatanwala dump. “There is a dump each at Bhagatanwala, Fatehpur and Bharariwal. Instead of just Bhagtanwala, waste should be thrown at all these dump sites,” he said.
 
 After having failed to move the government machinery to act in their favour, the residents of ward numbers 37, 38 and 39, who constantly face the hazards of open dump at Bhagatanwala, constituted a 51-member JAC in November 2014, to get the site shifted. For around two and a half years, the JAC members sat on dharna every day.
 
 However, on assurance of the previous SAD-BJP government, they had suspended the dharna for 42 days only to resume their agitation later in 2016. Hoping, that the new Congress government would resolve their issue, they ended their protest.
 
 JAC general secretary Naval Chawla alleged that leaders had just made the dump a ‘political issue’ but had done nothing to find a solution. “It’s a matter of life and death for us. I wish these leaders stay here for some days to realize how dangerous it is to live next to a site emitting poisonous gases,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 During the regime of the SAD-BJP government, local residents, on the instigation of former Akali MLA Inderbir Singh Bolaria, had started dump waste at nearby Fatehpur. It was objected to by the residents of Fatehpur, who enjoyed the support of BJP secretary  . While Bolaria didn’t allow city’s garbage to be dumped at Bhagatanwala, Chugh didn’t allow waste to be thrown at Fatehpur.
 
