On Jan 2, a distressed father called the   of Hyderabad to save his daughter from two unidentified youth who were   his daughter. Seeing the boys tail her college bus everyday, either on a bike or a red car, the girl was petrified. She stopped going to college. Even though the father was unwilling to file a written complaint, the cops swung into action and filed a suo moto case. The accused were put behind bars after the girl identified them. Moral of the story? The best way to deal with stalkers is to report them! Because stalking is a serious form of sexual harassment and often the first warning sign of worse things to come. Not convinced? This list of recent stalking cases that made headlines will seal it.

 Last September in Delhi, a 21-year-old woman was stabbed to death in broad daylight by a man who had been stalking her for months. 
 In October the same year, a 34-year-old beautician was brutally assaulted and stabbed to death by her stalker. 
 
 Chennai’s horrific Swati murder case which made national headlines started with a stalker following the victim daily. Chennai reported two other such incidents last year alone. 
 
 In Bengaluru’s molestation case that’s being regarded as ‘India’s shame’, it has been established that the woman was being stalked by the same men before it escalated to molestation. 
 
 Do we see a pattern here?
 
 
 
 Stalking needs to be nipped in the bud, asserts  , ACP, She Teams, saying, “Stalking is a serious crime. And girls really need to nip it at the bud. If they don’t come forward and complain, they will be sending out signals of weakness and the stalkers will only get bolder. Girls should just rely on their gut instinct, they need not wait for days or weeks to observe a pattern. It’s simple. If you feel like you are being stalked? You are being stalked. That’s it. Just report the case as soon a possible.”
 
 Stressing on the importance of filing a police complaint, advocate Mrunalini Deshmukh, who deals with women’s issues, says, “Stalking is the initial stage. The ultimate intention of the stalker could be molestation or rape. Women need to issue stern warnings to their stalkers, even in cases when they are calling you from unknown numbers. In fact, most of them don’t even know the age of the women they’re stalking. So, just let the cops deal with it,” says Mrunalini.
 
 
 
 Counsellor and programme head at a city women’s rights NGO, Dr   says stalking is sexual harassment and nothing lesser. “Girls live in constant fear of the stalker. Stalking is like a tool to test the waters. When the girl doesn’t confront, the stalker's confidence grows. They begin to approach them, like try to strike up a conversation or even ask for phone number. This is when most girls decide to resist the advances. And that is when the stalking turns to physical assault and even sexual assault,” she explains adding, “In many cases girls stop stepping out of their homes, fearing their stalkers. Living in fear constantly, the victims become vulnerable to anxiety, depression related mental illnesses.”
 
 
 
 Statistics indicate that the number of stalking cases being reported is rising. In 2014, 4,699 cases of stalking was recorded by NCRB followed by a total of 6,266 complaints in 2015. However, the conviction rates remain very low. In 2014, 35 per cent of cases led to convictions. And in 2015, only 26 per cent of stalking cases ended in a conviction. This is the result of the unwillingness of the victims to register formal complaints, reckons Swati Lakra. “We file suo moto cases like we did in the Abids stalking case. But suo moto cases don’t stand much of a chance in the court of law, in the absence of an FIR. Which is why we really insist, in fact even beg, the girls and their families to file an FIR. Most victims request: ‘just get them to stop troubling us and that’s enough’ or ‘Don’t drag us into it.’ Ideally, a case filed means that a culprit is off the streets or won’t bother another girl again,” she says.
 
 Women’s rights activist   too echoes similar sentiments: “The conviction rates are low because most victims do not testify and leave the case half way or better still nowadays only speak to the media but never report to the law enforcement authorities. Let’s say, even if the police are insensitive, abandoning the case midway does not serve any purpose. We can end this, only if we fight back. Change will come, only when we will become the change.”
 
 
 
 Stalking is passive-aggressive in nature and even if you think that it is not physically harmful, it could turn so soon enough. Here are a few ways you can recognise a stalker…
 
 
 
 According to statistics, more than 80% of the time, the stalker is someone you probably know. Look out for signs. See if someone is following you while you are going to work or getting back home. If possible, do not take the same route every day.
 
 
 
 The basic aim of a stalker is to try and scare you. They may try to prove their power over you by their actions. They will try to increase their proximity to you. However, instead of getting scared, you must be brave and call for help in case you sense danger. Don’t wait for him to physically harm you.
 
 
 
 This shouldn’t come as a surprise to you — the stalker will make every possible attempt to approach you – either physically or through the virtual world. Constant messages or calls could be one sign. The other could be that you spot the same person around you whenever you are travelling alone.
 
 
 
 
 
 Resentful stalking happens when the stalker feels as though they have been ill-treated or that they are the victim of some form of injustice or humiliation. Resentful stalking can also be the result of severe mental illness, where the perpetrator develops paranoid beliefs about the victim and uses stalking as a way of ‘getting back’ at her.
 
 
 
 Stalking arising out of rejection often happens because of the breakdown of a close relationship. Victims are usually former sexual intimates. However, family members and close friends of the stalker can also become targets. The initial motivation of this kind of stalker is either to attempt a reconciliation or to exact revenge for the rejection.
 
 
 
 The stalking behaviour is usually initiated as a way of obtaining sexual gratification (e.g., voyeurism targeting a single victim over time), but can also be a way of obtaining information about the victim as a precursor to a sexual assault. “It’s basically a kind of obsession which is the main component of the stalker’s thoughts. In some cases, it’s an OCD (Obsessive Compulsive Disorder), where the stalker feels an uncontrollable urge to follow, chase or harass someone. For others, it’s just ‘fun’, rather, an exercise to prove their manhood. Some stalkers could have a history of rejection or it might also spring from an impulsive fondness for the target. They basically suffer from a complex, which urges them to cause harm without worrying about the consequences,” says  , a psychologist who deals with women and children’s issues.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
