Gurgaon: This city is sometimes held out as some sort of El Dorado, a place of promise. But tell that to the residents of  , inside  , and they’d think you’re playing a cruel joke on them. Here’s a complex that can serve as the perfect example of everything that’s wrong with Gurgaon. 

 On Sunday, when TOI Gurgaon sat down with Fresco residents, it came face to face with men and women who were disenchanted, exasperated and angry, caught between a builder that has arrogantly washed its hands off their problems and an administration that has seemingly forgotten about them. It’s almost as if these apartments have fallen off the city map, the residents left to fend for themselves. 
 
 “If there’s a complaint, we don’t know who to approach,” said one of them. “Nobody picks up our calls,” said another. Fresco Apartments has 16 towers with 830 units, 670 of which are occupied (the first occupants came in 2010). Yet till date, not a single occupancy certificate has been issued.
 
 For years, says Ramesh Kathuria, they have had to put up with terrible roads. The juddering entrance into the apartment premises has led to many a gammy back and damaged car. But that’s just one of the litany of complaints the residents had to share. 
 
 Their many cries for help have gone unanswered, their concerns over health and safety repeatedly given short shrift. It’s a story of broken promises, and of a lack of accountability.
 
 “We face many miseries,” said Kathuria. “There are giant craters around the roads, and navigating vehicles is an everyday nightmare.” In fact, the road that leads to Fresco is a road in all but name. “I know of a couple of cases in which women have suffered miscarriages because of these bad roads,” shared Sonica Kohly, a tenant here for four years.
 
 Then there are issues over water. “In these seven years, all the water that we use is extracted from the ground, about 6,00,000 litres every day – none of it is water from the canal,” shared Pradeep Arora. 
 
 “The sewage treatment plant has been non-functional since July 2016, and even the seven rainwater harvesting pits have not been functioning. In fact, the pits only started being cleaned last year, and a lot of muck came out.” With the STP out of order, untreated water is used on the lawns. “There’s a strong stench, and with children playing, there’s the risk of infection,” said a worried Kohly.
 
 The less said about the quality of service, the better. The lifts function fitfully, and it’s entirely possible to be trapped inside for 30-45 minutes. In Tower no. 11, only the common lift is operational. “Since the goods lift isn’t working, workers end up using the common lift to carry construction material, and movers use it to transport furniture, etc.,” said Shraddha Saxena. 
 
 “Annually, we’re paying Rs 50,000 for upkeep of the façade, but we’re actually paying for shoddy maintenance work,” complained one of the residents. 
 
 “I get scared every time my son takes the lift down,” said Kohly. 
 
 Meanwhile, around 50 buyers are still waiting to take possession of their flats in Tower no. 17 (there is no ‘number 13’). “We’re in our late 70s, and unlikely to be around for much longer. We hope to see it in our lifetime but even when we’re gone, I doubt our children will get to see the property,” said a distressed elderly lady.
 
 Despite the best efforts of the RWA members, there appears to be no salvation in sight for Fresco’s residents. Ramesh Kathuria summed it up best, saying, “For us there is no ‘Nirvana’!”
 
 
