BENGALURU: “I may not be able to see them, but I can hear them. That is enough for me to feel them. The roar in the skies is satisfying,” says Sudhir Kumar, a 34-year-old, visually challenged employee of the Indian Air Force (IAF). Sudhir, who works in the Air Headquarters in Delhi, had heard stories about the aero show from his colleagues. “I listened to the videos they played and could visualise the fighter planes. I was desperate to come for the show this year,” he told STOI here on Saturday. 

 Sudhir’s passion best captured the excitement at the Yelahanka Air Force Station, as the curtains came down on the 11th edition of world's second largest air show. 
 
 The early birds were the wisest. Experienced Bengalureans reached the airbase as early as 6.30am even though the first flying display was only at 9.30am. The   was packed with bumper-to-bumper traffic with over 1 lakh citizens heading to the show. 
 
 For Dimple Ved, who came from Shirdi, Maharashtra just to witness the planes in the skies, “ecstasy” was not enough to describe her feelings. “We were worried seeing the traffic pile-up on the highway. I prayed the show would not get over by the time we entered. The experience inside was magical.”
 
 Deepanker Ray from Sarjapura said, “I’ve seen them in Hollywood movies. There’s no way I would missed this today. I left home at 6am so that I could get the best spot to take the best shots.”
 
 Shutterbugs couldn't take their cameras off the air, even for a water break. From the photographers who had invested lakhs on high-end equipment to shoot the air show to the selfies with the men and their machines, they clicked every minute.
 
 “I’ve started shooting for the past couple of years and this is a great opportunity for amateurs,” said D Ghosh. While entertainment was part of the show, the business end was sedate. The show saw several major announcements like the resurrection of civil aircraft project, testing of cruise missiles and setting up innovation funds, apart from the numerous deals signed.
 
 As the show expands, the traffic has been major logistical worries. The expressway to the airport was jammed. But once the visitors entered the parking, there was discipline. BMTC shuttle buses helped to an extent to streamline the movement.
 
 Riya Bagade said it was worth all the wait. “I have to wait two more years for this excitement. And my father said the show could happen in another city then. I did not want to miss it,’’ she said.
 
 Like Riya, many had heard rumours of the show moving out. “Bengaluru will be the home for  . The planes will be back again in 2019,’’ said defence ministry officials
 
