The reare five railway stations in   (KGF) Marikuppam, Champion, Oorgaum, Coromandel and   Nagar. If you include the trains from the nearest big junction,  , there are 25 trains to the state capital every day. The first train starts well before dawn, but is crowded -with all the young people of Kolar commuting to Bengaluru to work.

 On the face of it, KGF looks like any other small town in India - but then you notice that there are very few cars on the roads.It's all either two-wheelers or autorickshaws. The people on the roads are mostly students or women and children. “What do you expect? All our young people are in Bengaluru, working as housemaids or security guards.There are no jobs here," says G Jayakumar, the coordinator of  , Supervisors and Officers United Forum.
 
 A TOWN OF MEMORIES
 
 Sixteen years ago, last week, the company at the heart of India's most famous -and fabled -company town shut down.BGML, the public sector enterprise that operated and managed Kolar Gold Fields, was one of the most visible casualties of liberalization, when the recommendation made by the   to wind down the company was accepted by the central government. When the company shut down, it had 3,100 workers, down from 35,000 employees during its heyday in the 1960s.
 
 “The population of KGF is around 2.4 lakh. That's more than that of Kolar, the district capital.Even though KGF is not even a taluk, we have a separate superintendent of police and a separate district surgeon,“ says R Vikramadithan, former chairman of   . “This was one of the first places in India to get electricity -in 1902, from Shivasamudram, before even Bengaluru.KGF had the largest hospital in Old Mysore, BGML Hospital, a 300-bed facility, built in 1880. Now, we can't even compete with Kuppam, which Chandrababu Naidu is developing at a record pace,“ he says.
 
 GHOSTS OF THE PAST
 
 Scattered around KGF are the shafts, marked by rusted metal platforms, around two storeys high. They still bear British names -Bullen, Champion, Edgar and so on. But with the Brits long gone, the names have been Indianized. Hancock's shaft is now `Uncox's', Rodgers camp is `Rajesh' camp.
 
 Next to the Hancock's shaft is a building that looks like a cathedral -it's housing for an aircompresser, feeding power to the cart that took the miners 3,200 feet below the surface. The cart is rusted solid, and the sheds nearby are falling apart. “This is where the agents would sit. This is where the explosives were stored. The mines clerk would have a key , the officer would have another. Both of them had to unlock the stores at the same time to access the gelatine and the ANFO (explosives),“ says 64-year old Francis Peter.
 
 Peter used to be a detective, guarding against gold thieves among the miners. He and his crew would navigate the miles of tunnels under the surface, with a single torch to guide them. The idea was to conduct surprise checks on the miners -who had their own ways of communicating to each other that checks were on the way . But now, those gold thefts seem minor. “They looted this place -those socalled-officers who were supposed to be looking out for us,“ he says. “Everything that could be moved, they stole, from the machinery to the copper wire that connected the compressor to the shafts.“ He spits in disgust.
 
  
 
 
 
 OPEN AND SHUT
 
 Every once in a while, news of developments in the myriad court cases surrounding BGML sweeps through KGF. Or talk of the mines being reo pened. But this week, there's been a significant development.“We have got the penal interest on the delayed gratuity payments for the miners,“ says Jayakumar.
 
 According to him, it's more viable to get the gold from the socalled “tailings“, the cyanide salt dumps that dot the landscape around KGF. “We are ready to do what is needed to revive mining in this area. But there are vested interests who have been working against the workers, while p r e t e n d i n g to speak for them,“ he says. Jayakumar has been fighting for the miners in the courts, as well as representing their issues to the government for years.For him, the next target is getting compensation for the miners' lung infections. T he miners call it silicos i s , and it's a result of inhaling the crystalline dust from the mines. “1,500 people have died as a result of BGML's neglect,“ he says. “Now we are going to the   and Prashant Bhushan is representing us.“
 
 But as far as the revival of mining is concerned, KGF seems to be the ball in a ping-pong game between the Centre and the state.“The Centre has said it is okay with the idea of the Karnataka government taking over and running these mines. But the Karnataka government does not want to take on BGML's liabilities of Rs 1,700 crore,“ says Jayakumar.
 
 A SERIES OF DEPARTURES
 
 Over the past seven decades, the story of Kolar has been one of departures. After Inde pendence, the British officers left. “The company began to entrust more responsi bilities to the Anglo-Indians.
 
 Other educated Indian of ficers and agents joined the min ing company at this stage and took over many admin istrative and managerial posts when the European exodus began,“ says Bridget White Kumar, a long-time Kolar resident and the author of Kolar Gold Fields Down Memory Lane, an account of the mines and the lives of the people who worked there. But the Anglo-Indians too found themselves considering other options. “Towards the beginning of the 1960s till the end of the 70s there was a mass exodus of the community from KGF to England, Australia, America and Canada,“ she says.
 
 In 1956, John Taylor & Sons, the company instrumental in the development of Kolar Gold Fields, handed over charge to the State of Mysore. “Fourteen years later, in April 1970, the firm closed down, after two centuries in mining, when their term in KGF as consultants came to an end“ says Gayatri Chandrashek ar, the author of Grit and Gold, a history of KGF.
 
 Today, most of the BGML officers have gone, too. A few remain, dreaming of reopened mines and gold from sand. The old workers stay on, hoping for compensation and payments that may never come. The younger generation has abandoned KGF, preferring gruelling commutes on crowded trains to Bengaluru every day. And with talk of the privatization of   (BEML), the last big employer in the area, it looks like Kolar is set for another exodus.
 
 (With inputs from Ranganath Krishnaswamy)
 
 THE NEXT GENERATION
 
 There are around 140 students in the Government Higher Primary School in Lower Maskum, Kolar. “These are children from the poorest families. We have a few students from the local remand home for children as well,“ says Nagaraja Rao, the school's principal.For the children here, the mines are irrelevant, the stuff of stories their grandparents tell. They aren't living in the past, but immediately, vitally, in the present.
 
 There are the brothers Ameenu, Siddique, and Saleem, whose father is an autorickshaw driver.Ameenu, the oldest, wants to be an engineer. “He's smart enough, he can do it if he studies,“ says his teacher Varalakshmi, smiling with pride. Siddique wants to become a car mechanic. Saleem, the youngest, has the grandest plans. He wants to be a Collector. Ramesha ran away from home when he was nine, unable to take the constant beatings his parents dealt out. Now, he's at the remand home, where he's happier. There's little Vidya, nine years old, very shy and heartbreakingly pretty, with her left hand horrifically withered and burnt after an accident with hot tar. She's a remand school resident as well. Her parents left her there, unable to take care of her. They give her breakfast and dinner, and the school provides her lunch. Life is better at the remand home, she says.
 
 Despite the poverty, despite the hardships, these children are bright and inquisitive. They've possibly never seen an iPad and live in a world without Instagram and Snapchat, in a world where books and play still matter. They aren't blasé or jaded and retain a sense of wonder.“They're all good kids,“ says Indumathi, another teacher. “Of them, we hope that at least 50 percent will go on to college. But we can only help them up to 4.30 pm, when school ends.After that, when they go home, they're on their own."
 
