CHANDIGARH: A woman has accused the police of not taking action against a stalker out on bail for allegedly threatening her to withdraw a case against him, asking if cops were waiting for her to get murdered.

 The case has come to light just a day after a vegetable vendor, who had been   an 18-year-old girl after she rejected his advances,   in Grain Market, Sector 26.
 
 “I am living under constant fear. Anything can happen to me. Are the police waiting for me to be murdered? He is roaming freely and threatening me but the police are not even registering a case against him,” the woman told TOI after she approached Sector 34 police station on September 27 and also lodged a complaint to the SSP through public window on September 29 but to no avail.
 
 Narrating how it all started, the victim said she used to know the accused, Vishavjeet Kapoor, but started maintaining a distance from him after finding out that was keeping a bad company last year. Irked, the accused had fractured her hand by twisting it hard, she alleged. He had barged into her house and   and her family members on November 13, 2016. Kapoor was then booked under sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) 354 A (sexual harassment and punishment for  ), 354 D (stalking), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) and 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt). He got   in the first week of December in 2016.
 
 Now, on September 18, the accused again allegedly stalked and threatened the woman. “He tried to stop my car. When I alighted, he tried to run his car over me," the woman alleged. She pleaded in her complaint to the SSP to save her life as the accused “could do anything to her and she is living in a state of fear”. “Kapoor has threatened to kill me a number of times. Earlier as well, he barged into my house and tried to kill me and my parents,” she alleged.
 
 The woman accused the police of taking her complaint lightly. “I have gone to the Sector 34 police station four times but the cops say they will trace the mobile phone location of the accused at the site of the crime and then lodge a fresh complaint. That is yet to be done," she said.
 
 
 
 
 Woman knows accused but begins to keep distance from him after finding out he keeps bad company in 2016
 
 On November 13, 2016, accused barges into her house, fractures her hand and threatens her and attacks her family members with iron rod
 
 Accused is booked under different sections of IPC
 
 Accused gets anticipatory bail in the first week of December 2016
 
 On September 18, accused allegedly stalks and threatens the victim to withdraw the case
 
 On September 27, victim asks Sector 34 police station to register a case against him
 
 Victims lodges a complaint to the SSP through public window on September 29
 
 
 
 
 “I really feel very insecure because the accused can do anything with my life. Please save my life…”
 
 The victim’s complaint to the SSP
 
 I have recently joined as the station house officer of Sector 34. We will look into the matter. We will speak to the victim and take appropriate action against the accused.”
 
 Ajay Kumar, SHO, Sector 34 
 
