NAGPUR: An exhibition on the theme of water was organized at Ram Mandir, Ram Nagar, on Monday evening to spread the message of   among people. More than 100 pictures with various slogans were displayed at the expo. 

 Praveen Mahajan, the organizer of the event said, “If every person takes oath to save one litre water per day, then we could save 50 lakh litre water everyday in Nagpur itself. People waste a lot of water which could be avoided through simple means. Due to scarcity of surface water, consumption of   has increased rapidly in the recent years.”
 
 Mahajan further said that pumping water out of the ground faster than it is replenished can cause many problems in the long term. “Thus, due to overuse, the groundwater levels are depleting fast in many areas,” he said. 
 
 Some of the pictures at the exhibition carried slogans like ‘When you conserve water, you conserve life’, ‘Save water, it doesn’t grow on trees’, ‘Don’t waste it, just taste it’ and so on.
 
 Speaking Mahajan, further said “Groundwater depletion is primarily caused by sustained groundwater pumping. Some of the negative effects of groundwater depletion are drying up of wells, reduction of water in streams and lakes, deterioration of water quality, increased pumping costs etc” 
 
 Mahajan said that one of the most successful ways of saving water was rain water harvesting. “Through rain water harvesting, we can deal with these problems. It is one of the best way to reduce scarcity of water everywhere in the world.   provides an independent water supply and can help mitigate flooding of low-lying areas, and reduces demand on wells which may enable groundwater levels to be sustained,” he said.
 
 “Application of rainwater harvesting in urban water system provides a substantial benefit to both, water supply and wastewater subsystems by reducing the need for clean water in water distribution system. Every corporator should make a rain harvesting model in his or her respective ward to spread awareness among people. Rain water harvesting should reach the masses. We provide technical support to anyone for rain water harvesting without any charges.” Mahajan added.
 
