After much glitz and glam that was seen in theme-based days celebrations of   colleges, collegians are now testing their athletic skills. As part of their annual festivals, many   in the city have organised   competitions. Consequently, college grounds are full with sport persons as well as spectators cheering for their favourite teams.

  “Watching a live match is pretty exciting. Every college has their own Kohli and Dhoni. When they hit sixes and fours and bring victory home, the happiness is no less than India winning an international match,” expresses Shubham Shelar, a commerce student.
 
  Most of such sports events are organised by student councils aided by college administration. “Recreational activities are immensely important for students along with their studies. January is the season of all extra-curricular activities. During this time college auditoriums are buzzing with cultural events and grounds are houseful with   and cheering crowd,” says Vijay Mahale, professor at KNH, CIDCO College.
 
  
 
 
  All the reputed sports trophies include only one and one game. Cricket! “It’s the religion of India, how can we not play it?” asks Rajan Bhoyir, an aspirant cricketer and FY Bsc student. “We have been practising from last month. Our goal is set, to win the inter-collegiate cricket trophy,” he further adds. If you walk alongside grounds when the matches are going on, you will find all the rules of cricket twisted and turned to facilitate amateur cricketers. “Actually, these college competitions are a version of gulli cricket. Most of the matches are of 10 overs as time doesn’t allow us to play fulltime match. No one here is a seasoned cricketer. The ultimate aim is to have some fun with friends, and impress girls if possible”, smiles  , an engineering student. However, the same girls, who boys want to impress with their gaming skills, demand cricket trophies for themselves. “All the trophies are for boys. If boys can play then why can’t we girls?” asks Praniti Desai, an engineering student.
 
  
 
 
  Yes, cricket is immensely popular among collegians. Does this mean no one is interested in other sports? “No it’s not like that. Everybody gets to participate in competition of their own favourite sports. We have badminton, jump rope, athletics and basketball competitions,” says Ravinder Kumar, an electronics student and member of a student council. 
 
 
 
