A look at the major talking points from the second T20I between India and England in Nagpur which the hosts registered a close five-run victory:

 
 
 
 With Champions Trophy a few months away, KL Rahul's position at the top of the batting order in limited-overs has of late come into question. In the preceding ODI series against England, he returned scores of 8, 5 and 11 and in the first T20I in Kanpur, he managed just 8. On Sunday, he put those talks to rest with a well-crafted half-century, his first in the format, on a difficult track. With England landing regular blows, he became the fulcrum around which the Indian innings revolved. It was his partnership with   for the fourth wicket that revived them and his 71-run knock was essential in them posting a winning total. 
 
 
 
 
 The problem of bowlers overstepping has hit India hard. For three matches in a row, no balls have cost them three major wickets. For the first two, in the third ODI and the first T20I - both of which India lost - the culprit was Jasprit Bumrah. During the third ODI in Kolkata,   was on 28 when he was caught at third man but survived when replay showed Bumrah had overstepped. He ended up with 56 runs. The next one didn't heavily impact the result when Joe Root was bowled off a no ball by Bumrah during the first T20I in Kanpur. The latest one was delivered by   in Nagpur which castled Ben Stokes first-ball for a duck. He went on to score 38.
 
 
 
 
 Stokes must count himself very unlucky for finishing wicketless in Nagpur. He could have easily finished with one had the off stump bail complied after the ball brushed past before landing in the gloves of wicketkeeper  . It was the penultimate delivery of the 15th over and Pandey was on strike. The ball was pitched on a length, outside off and Pandey aimed to work it past the point region. He missed and a bail flashed but it remained stuck to the stumps. With hands on head, disappointment was writ large on Stokes' face. Pandey could only smile on his luck.
 
 
 
 
 During the England innings, a faulty bail caught wicketkeeper MS Dhoni's attention. It refused to light up on disturbance as it is supposed to. The Zinger bails light up when dislodged from the stumps and it comes helpful in adjudging close calls especially in case of run outs and stumpings. So, after   had bowled the first ball of the eighth over, Dhoni brought the matter to the on-field umpire's attention and as a result replacements were called for resulting in a minor delay. 
 
 
 
 
  and Jasprit Bumrah put up a brilliant show to seal a last-ball victory for India, especially in the death overs. Nehra had a terrific match apart from one over in which he was taken for 16 runs. He finished with figures of 3/28 from four overs. His younger partner too had a memorable game with figures of 2/20 from four overs. They bowled in tandem during the death overs to outwit England batsmen. When Bumrah returned for a second spell, England needed 41 from 30. A well set Stokes was now finding boundaries and he managed to hit Bumrah for a four to take nine from the over. Nehra joined him from the other end and got rid of the left-hander. Bumrah then tightened the noose further with an over in which he landed four dot balls and allowed just three runs. Buttler gave India a brief scare with clattering Nehra for a four and a six in the 19th over before Bumrah sealed the door on England batsmen with a double-wicket final over.
 
