BENGALURU: When Tryphine, a student from Zimbabwe, learned that she had landed a scholarship to study in Bengaluru, she was shocked and excited in equal measure. But over the course of two years, Tryphine has realized it’s not all rosy for   in Bengaluru. It’s important that they learn to be outspoken, she feels. 

 “Africa offers abundant educational opportunities but I wanted to come to India to gain exposure and learn more. In films, the country and its people are portrayed as peaceful, but several experiences have made me paranoid,” said Tryphine, a member of the Federation of International Students Associations, Bangalore. “But one thing I’ve understood is that the lack of education leads to racism.”
 
 In the wake of two incidents against African students in the city within a year,   conducted a panel discussion on Friday. Tryphine was joined by David Amum of the   (Bengaluru) and Darshana Mitra of the Alternative Law Forum in a conversation about being an African student in India.
 
 “The problem is that the government still looks at the African student population as a law and order issue. Unfortunately, even the   (FRRO) doesn’t factor in many unfair experiences that these students go through in their colleges,” said Mitra.
 
 “Six students from a Hennur college couldn’t get their visa or residence permit extended because the college was holding on to their original documents like passports. This is illegal. The college told the students to pay a sum to get back the documents. With time running out of their hands, five of them were given exit visas while one was detained and continues to wait for bail,” she added.
 
 Apart from the government, which is responsible for maintaining the records of students from other countries, Mitra questioned the apathy of cops when an FIR has to be lodged. “For cases like minor thefts, police are usually quick at filing FIRs. But when it comes to students being harassed by colleges for money, they show the least interest in taking action,” said Mitra.
 
 Gelling with crowd is important
 
 Having lived in Bengaluru for five years, David Amum has had his share of mixed experiences. The one thing he has learnt is that no community can be isolated in this day and age. “We need to be more acceptable. We can break the ice only if we understand one another’s cultural differences,” he said.
 
 David added, “We come here as students because we are told how multicultural and diverse this city is. The climate is another draw. An unwillingness to mingle with the foreign crowd can further increase the divide.
 
