CHARMINAR: Days after the   constituted the first elected   of the state, it has now come to light that two officials -including the officer on special duty (OSD) to the chairman -have been `illegally' occupying endowed properties. In a bizarre case, the OSD has been found to have leased one such property to himself.

 Documents accessed by TOI revealed that   has been enjoying possession of a house endowed to   institution as a `tenant'. Mohiuddin was appointed OSD to chairman   on February 25, a day after the constitution of the board.
 
 The internal proceedings of the board issued by the chief executive officer (CEO) and ratified by then competent authority Syed Omer Jaleel pointed out several irregularities and a failure to comply with rules. It also noted that Mohiuddin had failed to get the lease sanctioned in his fa vour. The documents showed that the OSD, whose services have been engaged after retirement, has been paying meagre rents to the Wakf Board.
 
 Citing stipulations, the document invoked Rule 4 and 17, among others, of the Lease Rules which provide that letting out a wakf property for over a year and up to 30 years requi res government approval and `wide publicity'.
 
 An excerpt from the proceedings tersely reminded Mohiuddin, who once served as in-charge CEO, of his duty to protect Muslim endowment.“Further, it is more particularly observed that the employees of the Wakf Board are supposed to protect Waqf property and follow rules but in the instant the employees have itself violated rules and regulations which (have) caused irreparable damage to the Wakf which attracts severe action (sic),“ the excerpt reads.
 
 The board issued similar proceedings for M A Gaffar, also a retired employee but now serving in the capacity of executive officer. Gaffar has been in possession of a structure in Moghalpura, which is a part of the Nadir Shah Wakf. The proceedings, which were issued last January, instructed the officials to hand over possession to the Telangana State Wakf Board within a period of 15 days. However, sources said that they have not yet complied.
 
