MUMBAI: Employees and visitors who travel to   (BKC) are protesting against   ( ) for closing four ‘pay and park’ lots three days back. They said they were forced to park vehicles at a private facility which charges Rs 200-250 a day.

 Office-goers launched a WhatsApp campaign, circulated a petition on change.org and are threatening to block roads if the issue is not resolved.
 
 Romolin Charatkar, who works in BKC, said, “Around three weeks ago, MMRDA tried to close four lots that have been in operation for six years. Nearly 6,000 vehicles use these lots. We protested and forced them to stall their move. But they have barricaded the space and pasted notices barring parking there. How can they close them without providing a viable alternative?”
 
 Charatkar said MMRDA had been charging Rs70 a day for two-wheelers and Rs25 for four-wheelers. “Now, the only option is the parking lot run by Reliance Jio, which charges Rs30 for the first hour, followed by Rs20 every hour. This comes to around Rs200-250 a day. It does not even accommodate two-wheelers.”
 
 Rahul Kumar told TOI, “Has the end use of the parking plots been changed to some other purpose? What alternate arrangements has MMRDA made for public parking? The Reliance Jio parking lot is charging Rs200-250 a day. Is this the MMRDA approved rate?”
 
 Employees in G Block also filed a query under RTI and posted a complaint on MMRDA’s website and raised the issue on social media.
 
 A Worli traffic police headquarters spokesman said he was unaware of the issue but added, “But how can office-goers threaten to block roads with their vehicles? We will take proper action if they do.” Senior inspector Kalpana Gadekar of BKC police station said, “The lease has expired, perhaps they were unable to sort out terms for renewal.”
 
 Senior MMRDA officials said there are nine parking spaces in BKC, of which two are enclosed one multi-storeyed area close to Trident and other near Reliance Jio.
 
 Out of the seven open parking spaces, three were closed since over 10 days following complaints that anti-social elements were illegally charging parking fees despite they being declared free by MMRDA. The zones in front of ICICI, adjacent to Naman Centre and in front of   initially did not get bidders, after which they were declared free. They were shut after complaints of illegal charge collection. “We reopened the three slots for a few days after growing complaints about shortage of parking space. We request motorists not to pay fees at these spaces. We have flashed boards cautioning people about illegal parking fee collectors till these spaces are awarded to contractors,” a senior MMRDA official said.
 
 At Reliance Jio’s parking area, out of 2,000 cars slots, 1,000 are with MMRDA. For MMRDA’s slot, no contractor bid for three consecutive rounds of tenders during the last one-and-a-half years, leaving it virtually closed for regular motorists and visitors. 
 
 
