RIHANA JATTAN (PHAGWARA):   Harsimrat Kaur Badal laid the foundation stone of the   here on Friday and said the   would be a major help to farmers to shift from  . 

 The food park would have facilities like modern cold storage, deep freezer, sorting and grading lines for grains/cereals, vegetables and fruits, silo storage, raw and finished dry goods warehouse, NABL accredited food testing laboratory, standard design factory sheds (providing plug and play facility), water treatment plant, steam generation unit and captive power plant.
 
 Harsimrat revealed earlier that the Union water resources ministry had shown red flag to the project as the area fell in the dark zone in terms of over usage of groundwater. She said she pursued the matter with the Union water resources minister Uma Bharti arguing the project would help save water by making farmers shift to maize from paddy. 
 
 I K Sardana and K K Sardana, managing director (MD) and Joint MD respectively of the Phagwara-based Sukhjit Starch and Chemicals Limited, one of the leading maize processors in the country, said they were setting up the food park with an investment of Rs 125 crore. They said the food park had a capacity to consume maize from over 90,000 acres. The food park is at a distance of around 15km from Phagwara on the Phagwara-Hoshiarpur road. 
 
 The minister said the park, sprawling over 55 acres, would attract more investment and even foreign players could also establish their units. 
 
 She said such projects would reduce wastage of agriculture produce at each stage of the supply chain with a particular focus on lesser water intensive crops. 
 
 "As this particular food park was strategically located in the Doaba region, it would contribute to the development of the food processing sector in the region and create immense opportunities for entrepreneurship and employment in the state," she said.
 
 "Before we go to the polls in 2019, we will make all the 42 mega food parks operational which was announced by the UPA government in 2008, but till 2014 only two were made operational," she later told the media. 
 
 The event was attended by six Shiromani Akali Dal MLAs from the Doaba region and Phagwara BJP MLA Som Parkash while Congres leaders including irrigation minister Rana Gurjit Singh and former minister Joginder Singh Mann preferred to address the gathering and leave before Harsimrat arrived. 
 
