HYDERABAD: More than 4,000 doctors from government hospitals and   across the city boycotted outpatient duty for one hour for the second day on Tuesday, demanding payment of allowances and clearance of  .

 They were joined by 400 doctors from 11 government hospitals in the city who also did not attend to their outpatient duties.
 
 Out patients at Gandhi and   were worst affected as doctors here staged a boycott between 9 am and 10 am. While doctors said that they compensated for it by working through lunch hour, several patients were seen waiting.
 
 Members of the Telangana Government   have been protesting against the same issues for the last one month. Addressing the gathering, TGDA state joint secretary Dr G Vasanth said: “Many doctors appointed as teaching and nonteaching staff have not been given promotion for years. We have submitted our list of demands to the government and now they have to take a call on it. If they don't, we will intensify our protest.“ Recently, Telangana health officials held discussions with government doctors, but not hing came out of it.
 
 “We will continue to boy cott OP duties for an hour, for the next 15 days. From May 16, we will completely boycott OP, and from June 1 we will not even attend to emergencies,“ said Dr Pravin Pallam, president of the association. Doctors rued how discharging duties in the rural areas is even more difficult as they aren't paid any transport allowance.
 
 
 
 
 Telangana TDP leader   on Tuesday extended solidarity to protesting veterinary students of PV Narasimha Rao Telangana Veterinary University and alleged that state is planning to distribute lakhs of sheep just to please dealers. Speaking at the varsity, Reddy said: “In Telangana, we already have about 1.29 lakh sheep and if the state is planning to distribute another 89 lakh sheep without recruiting doctors, ultimately all these animals will die.“ He further added that as per the Veterinary Council of India (VCI) guidelines, there should be one veterinary doctor for every 5,000 cattle, but the state has just 40% of the required capacity. 
 
