CHARMINAR: Days after   senior leader Digvijay Singh said that hate is taught in madrassas, dozens of students and staff of the Islamic seminaries conducted the proceedings of an entire event in English.

 They touched upon topics such as unverified social media content as they deliberated the pros and cons of free speech. Singh took to the microblogging site and questioned, “Is there any difference between madrassas and Saraswati Shishu Mandir Schools run by   (RSS)? I don't think so. Both spread hatred (sic).“
 
 Students of Islamic seminaries from across the country converged at the Mahad ul Aali al Islami, an Islamic seminary, in the city, to speak on good gover nance, ideal leadership and whether there is a disconnect between faith and science.
 
 “Islam does not allow despots or dictators. It provides that leaders be elected by the people,“ said Mohammed Habibullah, a madrassa product from Muzaffar Nagar, Uttar Pradesh. He argued that faith does not allow discrimination. Fuzail Ahmed from the Markaz ul Ma'arif Education and Research Centre, another madrassa product, argued that while on the one hand social media has brought about the revival of reading and writing, it has also posed a challenge for many on account of its unfiltered content.
 
 He sought to reconcile the use of social media with ethics prescribed by Islam and the perils of ru mour mongering and fake news.
 
 “Messages should never be shared unless the content is verified,“ he said, adding that the religion does not permit slander in any form. Mahmoodul Hasan from the Islamic Study Centre also spoke about good governance.
 
 “The World Bank, nongovernmental organisations (NGO) and many others have said that good governance depends on the quality of infrastructure,“ he said.
 
 Earlier, Hafiz Peer Shabbir, Jamiat-e-Ulama Hind, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh unequivocally condemned Digvijay Singh's statement.
 
 “I want him (Digvijaya Singh) to show me if any madrassa has weapons stashed in it? he said.
 
 He shared that it was part of a larger conspiracy which seeks to have no imams, muftis and aalims, pointing out that several madrassas teach students contemporary subjects such as English and Mathematics.
 
