PATNA: The   ( ) on Friday withdrew its appeal filed against an order passed by the Patna   (HC) on Thursday for allowing 35 candidates to appear for the preliminary test (PT) of the combined civil services exams to be held on Sunday.

 Accordingly, 45 candidates, who could not get computer-generated admit cards, will now be allowed to appear for the PT on Sunday and complete the registration process afresh following the exams.
 
 Earlier on Thursday, a single bench of Justice Ravi Ranjan, while hearing a petition filed by one Nishant Kumar and 15 others, ordered the BPSC to allow them and 19 other interveners to appear for the PT of the combined civil services exams and get their applications processed afresh after the exam. However, the BPSC filed a Letter Patents Appeal ( ) challenging the same and hearing was scheduled to be held on Friday considering the urgency of the case.
 
 The petitioners had pleaded before the court that their admit cards could not be issued from the website of the BPSC owing to technical snag and the commission was not allowing them to appear for the PT without it. The petition filed by the aggrieved students before the court on February 3 stated that their forms could not be submitted on the last date (December 12, 2016) due to slow server of the BSPC.
 
 The division bench, headed by acting Chief Justice Hemant Gupta on Friday asked the BPSC to demonstrate its online application system, following which the court asked the commission to allow the aggrieved candidates to file their applications afresh in two hours. The counsel of the BPSC requested the court to allow them to take consent from the chairman of the commission for the same. However, the chairman apparently asked the counsel to withdraw the LPA itself.
 
 Meanwhile, ten more candidates approached the single bench of Justice Ravi Ranjan to allow them to appear for the PT. The single bench initially asked them to wait for the order of the division bench and later allowed them to appear in the test following withdrawal of the LPA by the commission.
 
 
