LUCKNOW/MEERUT:   ( ) chief   released the first list of 100 candidates on Thursday, giving 36 tickets to Muslims and replacing 10 sitting MLAs, including four who had defected to   last year.

 All 100 seats fall in the communally sensitive western UP. In the last assembly polls, BSP had fielded 31 Muslims in this region and won 30 of the 100 seats.   candidates, who account for 45% of UP's total population, have been allocated 20 seats. In contrast, upper castes, whose share in the population is much lower, have been given 27 tickets. Of these, 17 are Brahmins and eight Thakurs.
 
 Mayawati's outreach to upper castes, brahmins in particular, has disappointed her core support, the scheduled caste vote bank, with some dalit outfits calling the list a "stab in the back".
 
 Radhe Shyam, district president of the  , was disappointed that out of 100 candidates only 17 are Dalits.
 
 "When   founded the party, he had a very simple slogan -
  (welfare of the oppressed masses)'.Mayawati changed it to
  (welfare of all)'. That was the first sign of her moving away from Kanshi Ram's message. She has forgotten that this is a party of Dalits. Now, she has surrounded herself with Brahmins like Satish Chandra Misra who want to take her away from her message. This is no longer a party we can support," Shyam said.
 
 Other Dalit outfits, too, said they were surprised at the number of tickets given to upper caste candidates.
 
 But they have no issues with Muslims getting more tickets than Dalits. Shyam said Muslims are "our comrades in the Bahujan revolution".
 
 Over the last three assembly elections, Dalit representation in BSP's candidate list has steadily declined. In 2007, the party fielded 89 Dalits, which came down to 88 in 2012. In these elections, it is down to 87.
 
 Mamta Shiva, a function ary of the All India Backward and Minority Communities Employees Federation, found ed by Kanshi Ram, said, "I have nothing but respect for behen Mayawati. She has risen above her social condition of being a dalit and a woman. But she is surrounded by Manuwadis. I can't support BSP."
 
