Mumbai: Facing criticism from the opposition, the   government expanded the scope of the Rs 34,022 crore loan waiver on Thursday to include farmers who had restructured their loans till 2016. 

 They had earlier been excluded from the waiver since they were not defaulters. 
 
 Around 4 to 7 lakh farmers are expected to benefit from the decision, government sources said. The financial burden of the decision is yet to be ascertained. 
 
 Making the announcement in the assembly, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis also said that the waiver would be applicable to families of farmers who committed suicide due to agricultural distress. He added that the   would consider including farmers, who were army jawans, in the waiver. They are currently excluded in the eligibility criteria. He said that the state would launch a mobile app in a few days through which farmers could apply for the waiver.
 
 Fadnavis said that the aim of the waiver was not to wipe out farm loans but to make cultivators credit worthy. “Of the 1.36 crore farmers who are account holders, 44 lakhs are out of the institutional credit system because they are defaulters. The waiver will enable them to get fresh loans,” he said. The maximum defaults were during the drought years between 2012 and 2015, he said.
 
 Fadnavis also said that while the government was paying an incentive to farmers who had repaid their loans till 2016, the state could consider expanding the incentive to the future as well.
 
 Criticizing the UPA government’s loan waiver, Fadnavis said the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report showed how money had gone to the wrong beneficiaries. “The Vidarbha region received Rs 286 crore and Mumbai received Rs 208 crore. Some received funds for land development. Some beneficiaries received up to Rs 60 lakh,” he said. He said his government was taking time before disbursing the waiver to ensure it goes into the right accounts.
 
 Fadnavis also criticized district central cooperative banks, many of which are controlled by the Congress-NCP for delays in disbursing the kharif loan advance of Rs 10,000 announced by the state. “We gave a guarantee of Rs 3,000 crore for the loan advance but the district banks were uncooperative,” Fadnavis said. Fadnavis also sought to dispel the impression that prices of farm produce have fallen drastically. “The price of 80% of farm produce has risen. In the case of 20%, prices have fluctuated,” he said. While replying to a proposal moved by BJP MLC Sujitsingh Thakur in the legislative council in connection with the loan waiver scheme, leader of the opposition Dhananjay Munde welcomed the proposal, but said the government must expedite procedures. 
 
 (Inputs: Sujit Mahamulkar)
 
 
