NEW DELHI: As the   community threatens to revive a mass agitation for   status at the national level, all eyes are on the Uttar Pradesh election results and which of the three players — SP, BJP or   — wins the sprawling state. Vocal Jat groups campaigned against BJP in their stronghold of western UP and March 11 could be the community’s big test.

 Jat leaders concede a BJP victory would weaken their bargaining power by sending out a message that a political player can override the community’s resistance to the Lucknow throne. They, however, are confident that their veto will “definitely deliver a defeat” to BJP. It was the overwhelming support of Jats, who dominate the socio-political landscape of western UP, that created the tidal wave in favour of BJP in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. Their decision was fashioned by the communal polarisation triggered by Muzaffarnagar riots which pitted the community against Muslims.
 
 But much water appears to have flown down the Hindon river since – underlined by the desperate negotiations that BJP was forced to open with the community on the eve of the first phase of polling amid indications that they were gravitating towards Rashtriya Lok Dal of Ajit Singh. For the farming community, it is now time to check the harvest. A top RLD member said, “A victory for BJP will be a blow for the community.”
 
 The quota protagonists are already mulling contingency measures. Pushpendra Chaudhary, who heads Sanyukta Jat Arakshan Sangharsh Samiti, said, “If BJP is able to pull off a miracle in UP, then we will work to defeat it in Rajasthan polls in 2018 and then in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and then in Haryana. We will continue to work against BJP till the Centre fulfils its promise of March 2015 to include Jats in the central OBC list.” The Jat reservation issue is tricky as it has been turned down by the  .
 
 In the wake of the threat of renewed agitation, discussions are firmly around which way the dice will roll in UP. A veteran politician worried that a “negative outcome” would “show up” the disproportionate voice the community has in politics given that it accounts for just 2% of UP’s population.
 
 However, Jats see strength in numbers elsewhere. Even “our worst result”, they say, would leave BJP with no option but to coddle the community because of its massive presence in Rajasthan, Delhi and Haryana – which provides it with serious political heft.
 
