NAGPUR: Confusion reigns supreme over  , a compulsory paper that was introduced a couple of years ago by Nagpur University (NU), with some colleges claiming that the subject has been “cleverly scrapped” this year while officials calling it “oversight in syllabus preparation”.

 On Monday, some colleges told   that environmental studies, which is compulsory for all second year undergraduate students, has been excluded without any prior intimation from NU. The academic section denied the scrapping theory but couldn’t explain why the topic was not included in the syllabi of all UG courses.
 
 When TOI checked NU’s website, the topic was not part of third semester of any of the undergraduate courses. Following Supreme Court rulings, the University Grants Commission (UGC) had asked higher education institutions to introduce the topic from the second year of undergraduate courses to create awareness about environmental issues among youth.
 
 Pro vice-chancellor  , who is in-charge of academic section, didn’t respond to TOI’s calls till late Monday evening.
 
 Deputy registrar   said he would need to check the course directions but denied that environmental studies was scrapped. Asked why the topic is not included in the revised syllabi of UG courses, he said, “There is a separate direction for the course. I will need to check it on Tuesday.”
 
 Director of Board of Examinations and Evaluation   too couldn’t clarify about the topic missing from the UG syllabi. “The course is assessed internally and not by the university. Only the marks are forwarded by the colleges to us. But, this is done annually and not in semester pattern,” Khaty said.
 
 Countering the claims, some college principals and teachers asked how can the topic be skipped in the syllabus if the university didn’t cleverly scrap it. They also expressed anguish since it was not yet clear if they have to follow annual pattern or semester.
 
 “We conducted field visit to Futala Lake during the recent Ganesh festival to study the impact of immersion on water bodies and what measures can be taken to prevent their pollution. Later, we wanted to check what portion was covered and what was left to be done. But we were surprised to see that the topic was not there in the revised syllabus. In the old syllabus, environmental studies was clubbed with the regular course syllabus,” they said.
 
 Environmentalist  , who is member of special task committee that frames the syllabus, slammed NU for being non-serious with the subject. “The introduction of environmental studies itself is an eyewash. Unless they link it directly with passing standard, there is no use of the course. Right from the beginning, NU has been lackadaisical about the course,” said  , who teaches at all the six colleges offering environmental sciences.
 
