By Praveen Das

 No other festival celebrates   like  . It’s a time when the world’s creative geniuses rub shoulders, meet, greet, argue, bitch, become friends for life, and end up in ‘The Gutter’, the famous local pub. All this bonhomie and camaraderie is something one grows to look forward to, year after year.
 
 Over the years, technology has become a big buzzword and its presence is now ubiquitous. But this time around, there was something that stood out as refreshingly different. The 64th Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity, or just plain Cannes 2017, celebrated mind-blowing ideas that focused on bringing about a positive change in the society we live in, and in the world at large. 
 
 Needless to say, among these ideas, a few stood out.
 
 The bronze statue of the ‘Fearless Girl’ standing defiantly in front of the iconic charging bull on Wall Street drew attention to the ‘SHE’ fund of the State Street Global Advisors — a fund that invests in companies who put women in top jobs. It bagged three Grand Prix awards in the PR, ‘Glass’ (which recognises work that embraces gender diversity in the workplace) and Non-traditional Outdoor categories.
 
 The unusual football fields commissioned by the property development company AP Thailand found a creative use for vacant spaces to benefit the local community, with the insight that a soccer field doesn’t have to be the traditional rectangle shape. Instead, an oddly-shaped pitch was dropped into the middle of a city, between skyscrapers, giving kids a place to play football and stay out of trouble. It won the Grand Prix award for design. So much for thinking ‘out of the box’!
 
 The Refugee Flag that gave the 10 refugee athletes a unique identity when they participated in the Rio Olympics last year, later helped in rallying attention to the cause of refugees, and the plight of athletes without a country. This Amnesty International work won the Titanium Lion award (which honours game changers). Meanwhile, Legacy Berlin’s ‘Art Beats Hate’ transformed hate messages with swastika symbols into beautiful artworks symbolically welcoming refugees. This campaign won big time, in multiple categories.
 
 The ‘Immunity Charm’ campaign created for the Afghanistan’s public health ministry used the local tradition of a charm bracelet (worn by youngsters for better health) in an innovative way. The colours of the beads in the bracelet would signal to a physician the number of immunisation jabs received by a child, and how many more to go. This clever use of a simple and traditional piece of jewelry gave a much-needed boost to the country’s vaccination drive. The campaign won four Gold Lions in the Pharma category and a Health Grand Prix for Good.
 
 Every person who has had the opportunity to attend the festival would agree that a typical day at Cannes usually overloads your system with a rush of creative adrenalin, to the point where they become ‘comfortably numb’. Often, the rush comes in the form of brilliant ideas that help brands rake in the moolah. This time around, it was heartwarming to see real work that made a real difference, take home the heavy metals.
 
 The author is MD and chief creative officer, Happy Mcgarrybowen
 
 
