Bengaluru has gotten itself into a mess with its garbage and pollution issues that has the   ( ) and the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board ( ) up in arms. The once Garden City of India has now earned itself international shame after the heavily-polluted   caught fire multiple times. Albeit late, the authorities have finally woken up and are looking at preventing other such incidents in the state. In the process, though, an unlikely participant has fallen under the scanner of these authorities, namely the city’s  . 
Bengaluru, known for its love for beer, flaunts the status of being among the cities with the highest number of microbreweries. While examining possible pollutants at Bellandur, the NGT and KSPCB have cracked down on the water discharge at microbreweries. In fact, those located in and around the   Lake have been asked to close shop temporarily, while water and electricity supply has been cut. On condition of anonymity, a partner of one of the mircobreweries that has been affected by the order, says, “The order is directed at industries that are in the Bellandur catchment area and directs them to comply with certain effluent norms. Around 70-odd industries that have water discharge have been earmarked for inspection and this includes microbreweries. While we are willing to comply and undergo inspection, our request is that the process should be quick, as shutting down operations is a massive loss for us. Moreover, instead of stopping service completely, the authorities could have allowed us to operate the bar and restaurant, while the brewery remains closed.” 
 Meanwhile, the effluent treatment operations of other city microbreweries that don’t fall in the Bellandur pipeline are also being checked. A spokesperson of a   in the   says, “Inspections were recently carried out to check the effluent treatment at both our branches. While the one in Whitefield has a treatment plant, our Central Business District space has all the requisite measures in place.” 
 
 
 
 Now, any new microbrewery opening in the city will require an additional set of clearances apart from the usual ones needed for an F&B outlet. Sources tell us that some microbreweries that are nearly ready to open shop are now working extra harder to get these in place
 
 
