BHUBANESWAR: The   (ECoR) requested the state government to review speed restrictions imposed on trains by forest department in particular elephant passing stretches in  . It alleged that the restriction for several hours causes delay of different Bhubaneswar-bound important passenger trains. 

 The restrictions came into exist after a speeding train dashed against a herd of jumbos killing six of them on December 30, 2012. The Union   (MoEF) and the Railways jointly issued advisories to impose speed restriction of 50 km per hour in major elephant crossings in the state.
 
 Two such routes were Rambha-Humma-Ganjam and Sadashivpur-Hindol-Meramundali. The forest department has lifted speed restrictions in Rambha-Ganjam route, but it continues in the second identified route of 23 km, said Braj Mohan Agarwal, divisional railway manager, Khurda Road.
 
 Agarwal said the passengers always complain against the delay of different superfast trains in the route. These train are- Balangir-Bhubaneswar intercity express, Puri-Durg Intercity express, Tapaswini Express, Garib Rath express and some weekly trains. 
  
 “If we restrict the speed limit of a train from 100 kmph to 50 kmph, it cannot reach its destination in the scheduled time. The officials of Dhenkanal forest division should give look out advice to train crew within 2km of presence of the jumbo herds, but they impose the restrictions over a long stretch (even beyond 12km for 12 hours),” he added. 
  
 He said the railway is very sympathetic about the safety of the pachyderms, but the trains should be allowed in its normal speed when elephants are not present within 2 km area of the passing train. 
  
 Sandeep Tripathy, principal chief conservator of forests (Wildlife), said they impose speed restrictions after getting information about movement of elephants near the railway tracks.
 
 “Sometimes the jumbos come in separate groups and move in different directions in the area between Sadashivpur and Meramunduli of Dhenkanal forest division. Some herds come from Sadashivpur and another from Hindol area. In such cases, we have to impose restrictions from Sadashivpur to Hindol and sometimes its next stoppage Meramunduli. For the safety of these wild animals we have to bear this,” he added.
 
 He said they also review the situation time to time and take actions accordingly.
 
