Kolkata: Higher Secondary students have fared better than their counterparts in other boards in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test, given that they account for two-third of the successful candidates from   to have made it to the counselling level.

 Among the 55,979 students, who took the national medicine entrance test from Bengal, 27,000 qualified; two-third among them — all from HS schools — have cleared the counselling cut-off. “The cut-off for general candidates is 50%, while that for SC/ST and OBC students is 40%. For physically disabled students, the cut-off is 45%. In the general category, 27,000 students took the test this year and 24,000 among them qualified. Among the total candidates securing the cut-off, two-third are from HS schools,” said a source in the health secretariat.
 
 Citing the reason for the success, experts pointed that candidates from Bengal were this time aware that NEET questions would be on the lines of CBSE curriculum and that the central board would conduct the test. “Earlier, more CBSE or   students cracked the national entrance exams as their syllabi are more aligned to the tests. But now, even with the   revamping the curriculum, they do not seem to have that advantage any more,” said Amiya Maity, formerly associated with  . “Moreover, unlike in the past few years, as there was no confusion over which board would conduct the test, candidates could start preparing well ahead.”
 
 The achievement story, however, does not mean good news for candidates from Bengali-medium HS schools. “They suffered massively. Most of the students who have cleared the   cut-off had taken the test in English,” said the source. “We may come up with a detailed analysis of the results.” Some teachers regretted that had the Bengali question paper not posed a problem, the number of candidates clearing the cut-off percentile from the state could have been higher.
 
 All medical aspirants, irrespective of their earlier attempt, will be eligible to appear for NEET thrice.
 
