AURANGABAD: The first ever official ranking of agricultural universities released by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research ( ) has drawn embarrassment for the four agricultural universities in the state.

 Out of the total 57 universities rendering   education in India, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri has been ranked at the 33rd position, while the other three universities from the state — Dr Balasaheb Sawant Konkan Krishi Vidyapeeth, Dapoli, Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth, Akola and Vasantrao Naik Marathwada Agricultural  , Parbhani — feature at the fag end of the list. 
 
 The maiden ranking exercise, according to a section of stakeholders, has brought to light the alleged sorry state of affairs at these state-run educational institutions that cater to thousands of students, while exposing the policy-makers and university authorities. Incidentally, the poor ranking has a year after the ICAR kept the accredition of the four agricultural universities in the state under consideration for serious lapses and shortcomings. 
 
 A senior scientist associated with one of the agricultural universities in the state said that the ICAR ranking showcases the drastic decline in the standard of the four state-run institutions. 
 
 “Why should citizens and farmers admit their children to study in agriculture universities when their standards are not at par with the such other institutions in the country. What will be the future of the students who graduate from such low-ranking universities,” he questioned. 
 
 Maharashtra Council of Agriculture Education And Research (MCAER) vice-president   said vacant posts and state of affairs at private colleges have cost agricultural universities in terms of ranking.
 
 “The recruitment and related process was paralysed for the past 15 years, resulting in almost 50% vacancy against sanctioned posts. Post the decision of ICAR to keep the accreditation of four universities under consideration, we have formed action plans to address the recruitment and other issues. We have filed 11 key positions of directors and deans, offered Career Advancement Scheme (CAS) benefits to 60 and effected 74 promotions,” he said. 
 
 Talking about private colleges, Kharche said, “Efforts were on to improve standards of private colleges. We have around half of total private colleges in either the lowest C or D categories and they need to improve upon on different parameters.”
 
 Elaborating on the past decisions and their adverse impact, former vice-president of MCAER Vijay Kolte-Patil, said, “Attempts were made to push for certain unecessary decisions by the previous Congress-NCP government, which had an adverse impact on the recruitment process.” 
 
 B Venkateswarlu, vice-chancellor of Vasantrao Naik Marathwada Agricultural University, said, “Lesser orientation of students as well as faculties towards research was one of the reasons behind poor ranking.”
 
 “A considerable chunk of students who enroll for agriculture courses in Maharashtra tend to prepare for MPSC, UPSC and other competitive examinations. On the contrary, students from other states pursue research fellowships. The faculties too have to go for more research and get it published through reputed platforms,” he said.
 
 Venkateswarlu also said that state universities from the state have scored in developing crop varieties among other parameters. 
 
