
 This is a victory of SP’s ordinary workers, MLAs, leaders and, above all,  . People had reposed their faith in Akhilesh by submitting their individual affidavits. About 90% of total (SP) delegates, MPs, MLAs, national executive members gave their affidavits. This in itself proved SP being led by Akhilesh is the real SP.
  
  
 
  We will continue to regard Netaji as our patron. I know Netaji is angry with me. I want him to bless Akhilesh to form another SP government. Akhilesh had released a preliminary list of candidates earlier.
  
  
 
  There will be a new candidate list.
  
  
 
  There will be a new list for the first two phases of polls within two days.
  
  
 
  I am not aware about RLD. Our president Akhilesh will be best placed to respond to this. But I see a possibility of it (alliance with Congress).
  
  
 
  A general formula could be based on 2012 (assembly) elections. The seats won by the party (in 2012) and in case of seats lost (by both in 2012), the party that polled more votes than the other should get the right to contest respective seats.
  
  
 
  No one has contacted me. They consider me anti-alliance (chuckles).
  
  
 
  No. I will entirely be with the decision of my national president. I had said at the time of my expulsion (from SP by Mulayam) I will stand with Akhilesh till he forms the next government.
  
  
 
  First, they do not have a large following. They had 10-12 MLAs with them. We could not have accepted some of them (tainted elements). As for the untainted people, if they wish to join, I will request CM to accept them (back).
  
  
 
  Absolutely not. No party senior will be ignored. You will see even in our (candidates) list. Akhilesh has never ignored seniors. Netaji had repeatedly criticised the CM, but Akhilesh didn’t retort with even a single word.
  
  
 
  If the rival faction decides to contest polls and the way Netaji has announced to contest against Akhilesh, then we will have to see. Else, we consider Netaji as our patron and we plead him to bless Akhilesh. 
