There have been only a handful of Bollywood actresses, who have had a stunning debut in Kollywood. Though she has only one Tamil film, Minsara Kanavu, to her credit, she enjoys quite a big fan following here even after two decades of the film’s release. Thanks to the memorable role she essayed in the film. The ever-charming  , who stole the hearts of youngsters across the country through films like Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge and Kuch Kuch Hota Hai, is now looking forward to her second outing in Tamil. She will be seen in Dhanush’s Velai Illa Pattadhari 2 (VIP 2), which is directed by  . The ravishing actress talks to Chennai Times about her Kollywood comeback, her admiration for  , the social media attention on celebrity kids, and more...

 
 
 Well, Dhanush and Soundarya conned me into this film (Laughs). I was told that I will have only a few Tamil dialogues, but only after landing here I found that I have so many lines in Tamil to deliver. But they found a way to deal with the challenge I had to face. Both of them spent time with me, to make the experience more enjoyable and made me quite comfortable.
 
 
 
 He is a wonderful actor — very cool and composed during the shoot. I must say, Dhanush is not a person who throws tantrums. He is great fun to work with. He has written the screenplay and dialogues of the film, so he was more involved with every scene. I haven’t watched the prequel of the movie, so he narrated the entire story to me. 
 
 
 
 When I first heard it, I was like, what? Do I look like a piece of butter to you? But then they explained the context to me and then I got it. It was super funny though.
 
 
 
 I have worked with several first-time directors. But Soundarya is very efficient — she knows what she wants from every scene. She has a clear vision about the mood of each scene, how she wants to shoot it, its impact, etc. 
 
 
 
 It certainly did. But the last time I spoke Tamil, I found it too difficult. I remember after I packed up, I would sit with the assistant director for two hours and get my lines straight. It was like going back to school and I was doing homework. That was one of the main reasons why I never did another film in another language. But for this film, we figured out a way. It did take me two days to get the sense of the language again and to get used to it. But it was all fine after a while.
 
 
 
 I do agree that Hollywood has a lot more options. But I certainly feel that the Indian film industry has changed a lot over the years. They know how to make money out of movies. They are making more women-centric movies and they are all commercially viable films. So, I think things are definitely changing and looking better for female actors.
 
 
 
 Most certainly. In fact, cinema itself has adopted a very corporate setup. Today, in the industry, there are so many divisions and people have strange designations. But they know their jobs well and do get recognition. This never existed back then. Everybody who was part of a film had to do everything. There were no special duties assigned to a particular person. So, the industry has expanded and it is constantly evolving.
 
 
 
 I am very sporadic when it comes to watching movies. I am not the kind of person who goes for the first day first show, or go for a film because the reviews are really good. I only watch movies when I have the time for it. 
 
 
 
 I totally agree with them on this. But it is not about finding the writers, what we need to do is to foster the writers, cultivate them, accept them and most importantly, recognise them. That is how we will get to hear better stories.
 
 
 
 I think the social media attention that is going on is totally unnecessary. But people click pictures and put it on social media to make it go viral. I find all that intrusive, especially with my kids. I understand if people want to take pictures of my kids if they have already entered the film industry. But not now. I think there has to be a line drawn somewhere. A lot of people keep asking me if my kids are interested in films. But they are only six and 13, we have to give them a lot more time to discover themselves and for them to know what they want to do. We have to give them that freedom and that is every child’s birth right. 
 
 
 
 I think cinema has changed drastically. There are no stars anymore. It is an interesting time to be in films and all these new actors are so fantastically well prepared. They know what should be done, when I couldn’t figure that out even after doing so many films. They are well rehearsed and put together — both on and off the screen. 
 
 
 
 I definitely would like to do more Tamil films, if I have the right kind of people around me who understand where I’m coming from. I need a good script and I should be able to see myself in it. As for Hindi, I am doing a film under our home production, which should begin shooting by October or November.
 
