NIZAMABAD: The Telangana government, on Sunday, officially launched the ‘Kakatiya Hub for Social Innovation’-the country’s first social innovation facility, on the sidelines of ‘Development Dialogue’, a one-day social entrepreneurship conference held at Nizamabad.

 The conference was organized by  , an initiative inspired by the Deshpande Foundations sandbox in Hubballi. Plans for the structure, spread over an area of 50,000 sq ft, were officially unveiled by IT Secretary  , who was accompanied by philanthropist and founder of  , Gururaj Deshpande. The state-government funded facility will function as a rural incubation centre that will focus on developing a support system for innovators and encouraging entrepreneurship at the grassroots level.
 
 Speaking about the initiative, Ranjan said “The CM envisioned establishing incubators akin to to T-Hub in other districts of the state and this facility, which will be rolled out in a period of six months in Nizamabad, is one of the steps taken towards realizing his vision. The next such facility is likely to come up in Warangal. There are hundreds of problems in rural India that require intelligent solutions. Rural innovations will hence be of tremendous importance to the country.”
 
 Deshpande, meanwhile, stressed on the importance of combining innovations with ‘social relevance’ or need, in order to create impact.
 
 “The experience of running four sandboxes across the country has shown that social relevance of an innovation must be considered before developing the innovation itself. This is how innovations can have a much-needed social impact. If you want to create social impact, instead of pushing the innovation on people, one must create solutions that people believe in. Community participation is key,” said the entrepreneur whose bottom-up ‘sandbox’ model is currently operational in Hubballi, Nalgonda, Nizamabad and Varanasi.
 
 Raju Reddy, founding patron, Kakatiya Sandbox and founder and former CEO of   pointed out that even city-based startups whose target customer market are located in rural areas will soon start moving into these district-level sandboxes. 
 
 “A startup building solutions for the rural population has a higher chance of succeeding, if it decided to operate out of a sandbox,” said Reddy.
 
 Speaking to TOI after the event, Deshpande shared insights about the Indian start-up ecosystem.
 
 “Building low-cost solutions is one segment where India shines. It is hence in this segment that India will build solutions that the world has not previously seen. Statistics show that the world needs about 70 million entrepreneurs, of which 10 million hail from India. Of this number, the major players in the market such as Flipkart account for a mere 100,000, thus pointing to a huge gap. This shows that we need many more entrepreneurs, especially from districts such as Nizamabad,” said Deshpande.
 
