VARANASI: While the   (BHU) vice-chancellor has justified curbs on women students’ movement outside campus by saying they are not safe in public spaces, women students have pointed out that men have harassed and performed objectionable acts just outside their halls of residence, raising questions about the safety of women inside the university and hostels as well. The roots of the unsafe environment in the university lie in how   has been, over time, institutionalized around campus and in Varanasi.
 
  BHU is arguably the only university in the country where harassment of women has a unique term — ‘lanketing’. It is derived from Lanka Market, near BHU’s iconic Singh Dwar gate. The market has a lot of cafes and restaurants frequented by students. It also sees local youths on bikes cruising the area, following women and harassing them. The trisection outside BHU’s only women’s college, the Mahila Mahavidyalaya, also sees men loitering around and harassing students. Such behaviour has led to frequent clashes between students and youths.
  
  A student group had created a huge ruckus in Lanka Market following a harassment incident in February this year. The situation was controlled only after several brawls and incidents of vandalism between students and local traders. Cases of harassment emerge on a daily basis here.
  
  "We get a male friend to come along every time we go to the market. The risk of a stranger accosting us or passing remarks always exists,” said Sakshi Malik, a BA student. Other students said they have not reported such harassment on several occasions fearing victim shaming.
  
  "We would encounter harassment on a daily basis and be numb about it. What happened this time in the university just shows how bad things actually are, whether in the campus or around it. We are not even safe from harassment when we are in our hostels. Men stand outside and commit objectionable acts with impunity,” said a student on condition of anonymity.
  
  BHU alumni, pained over the current developments, claimed that the culture of ‘lanketing’, once referred to as ‘hanging out in Lanka’ by students, had become worse after the area became commercially important. "There wasn't much except a few roadside eateries and stores for general purchases. Till a few years ago, ‘lanketing’ was not a serious issue," said Bipin Rai, who graduated in 2005.
  
  “Not everyone approves of what is happening on the road. 'Lanketing' is inappropriate for an institution like BHU, which draws thousands of students from across the country and abroad. We need space where young people, including girls, can mingle without fear,” said the owner of a popular café in Lanka Market.
  
  Interestingly, there is a police outpost at one end and a police station at the other in the market. "There is quick assistance if anyone raises the alarm. Most brawls are the result of rivalry between student groups,” said a sub-inspector at Lanka police station.
  
  Locals felt that ‘lanketing’, which was once considered harmless, has become a menace. "Every evening, students on motorcycles, the fancier the better, would roam around, stand in groups or just aimlessly watch activity on the street. Nobody ever discussed the fact that such a culture could be slowly feeding harassment of women," said a shopkeeper at Lanka Market.
