LUCKNOW: The Akhil Bhartiya Brahmin   on Sunday extedned its open support to Bahujan Samaj Party. The development has brought the spotlight back on Mayawati’s   experiment that propelled her to power with absolute majority in 2007.

 Members of mahasabha gathered at the residence of  's close aide and party's Brahmin face, Satish Chandra Mishra, and raised slogans like `Haathi Nahi Ganesh Hai...Brahma Vishnu Mahesh Hai...,''. Mahasabha president, Rajendra Nath Tripathi said that the community got the maximum respect during the previous   regime. “The community would again back Behenji,” he claimed.
 
 The mahasabha’s support to BSP has come close on the heels of Mayawati’s strong Muslim outreach especially in west UP where she eyes a direct contest with a surging BJP. Sources said that BSP hopes to get requisite support from the upper caste community which form a major chunk of floating votes and can potentially determine any party’s fate, specially in reserved constituencies. Mahasabha support, therfore, has come as a shot in the arm, it says.
 
 Mishra said that the party would be greatly benefited by the support of the community. “We are not surprised by support the community which has been been feeling neglected in other political parties. Brahims need a strong platform to show its strength,” he said, while speaking to TOI. “Brahmins got maximum representation in the assembly when they aligned with the BSP in 2007...we expect that to happen again,'' he said.
 
 Accounting for 11% of the total state population, Brahmins had traditionally sided with the Congress until Mandal and Ram temple movement made the community move towards BJP. However, BJP’s Brahmin vote share has been decreasing consistently since 2002 when it got 50% of the total votes of the community, according to Centres for Social and Developmental Studies’(CSDS) projection. It dipped to 44% in 2007 and then to 38% in 2012. Political experts said that the Samajwadi Party, which won the 2012 election managed to get 19% of Brahmin votes, while BSP too got almost similar percentage of votes.
 
 Mayawati, too, has been consistently wooing the Brahmins since 2007 when she started her social engineering experiment by giving nearly 86 tickets to the candidates from the community. The number of Brahmin candidates has since been declining -- 74 in 2012 and now 66 in 2017. Mayawati relied heavily on Brahmins in 2014 Lok Sabha elections by giving 21 out of 80 tickets to Brahmins. The move, however, did not yield enough results even as BSP got decimated to a nil, thanks to the ‘Modi wave’.
 
 
