NAGPUR: City’s oldest higher education institution, Hislop College would be scripting history by conducting online admissions to all its undergraduate and postgraduate courses from this academic season.

 Buoyed by the success of online admissions to its Class XII students, the college would be the first in Nagpur to digitalize the process.
 
 Principal   told TOI that the college was well-prepared since the Nagpur University (NU) was planning to make all admissions online but couldn’t materialize this year.
 
 “Each year the college is taking a step ahead. It will bring complete transparency in our admission. We may encounter some glitches but we are prepared to overcome them. We are also in talks with a couple of banks to get the admission fee transferred directly into the account,” she said.
 
 Christian added that the link for admissions would be activated on the college website soon after the declaration of results.
 
 Once the link is activated, the students will need to visit the website and create a login ID and password. They would need to purchase e-prospectus, fill the form and upload documents. The admissions will be confirmed only after verification of documents followed by fee payment.
 
 Explaining the rationale behind pioneering the concept in city, college’s NAAC coordinator and English faculty member Prantik Banerjee said the move is based on UGC’s principles. “It is based on equity, accessibility and ease. The students should be treated equally, have access to resources and the process must be easy. Besides this, it is also the college’s efforts towards Digital India.”
 
 While Hislop is on its way to becoming paperless, many top colleges of the city, too, are planning to make admissions online.
 
 GS College of Commerce principal NY Khandait said the college’s will offer online admission from next year. “We are preparing for autonomy. Once that is done, we too will go digital.”
 
  principal Sanjay Charalwar said since the college has been awarded NAAC ‘A’ grade, digital admissions would be part of its upgrade plans.
 
 The Nagpur University had plans to conduct centralized admission process (CAP) for all its UG and PG courses this year but it dropped the idea recently following state government's prohibition. Since the college had already trained its staff in the wake of NU’s decision, it decided to go ahead instead of waiting anymore.
 
 Vice chancellor   welcomed the college’s decision to go online. NU public relations officer   said, “The VC has hailed the move. The way university is moving ahead with introducing reforms, it is happy that one of its affiliated colleges has taken such a positive step. It is a matter of pride for the Nagpur University.”
 
