LUCKNOW: The team from   ( ) headed by the vice president Andrew Denis McDowell, along with his six team members, recently visited   and praised the speed and quality of the project, which is being implemented by the Lucknow Metro Rail Corporation (LMRC) under the leadership of LMRC managing director Kumar Keshav.

 Lucknow Metro team said that EIB team is immensely impressed with the Lucknow Metro project and the way it is moving ahead so fast in such a quick time. “We are very excited for this project and feel very proud to be a part of this Metro Project. This is one of our most important projects that we have funded,” said McDowell.
 
  
  
 
 
 From Chaudhary Charan Singh Airport in Lucknow, McDowell along with his team members straightaway visited the Sachivalaya underground metro station site to take a glimpse of the tunnelling activities and the two tunnel boring machines (TBMs), which are in operation these days for the underground section of the project.
 
 Afterwards, the EIB team visited the administrative office of Lucknow Metro where a presentation was given by Kumar Keshav, LMRC’s MD. The vice-president, EIB, and the managing director, LMRC, signed papers related with disbursement of the second tranche of the EIB loan amount to Lucknow Metro. 
 
 The next day, the European Investment Bank (EIB) signed an agreement with the government of India (GoI) for disbursing 250 million Euros (Approximately Rs 17, 52, 50, 00000) to Lucknow Metro as the second tranche of the loan amount for this Metro Project.
 
  Earlier in March, 2016, a foreign loan agreement for 450 million Euros (equivalent to Rs 3,502 crore) was signed between the government of India (GoI) and the European Investment Bank (EIB) in Brussels during the visit of Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi to Belgium.
 
 The funds had to be released by the European Investment Bank in two tranches of 200 million Euros and 250 million Euros respectively. The first tranche of 200 million Euros has already been received by LMRC, while an agreement for disbursing the second tranche of 250 million Euros has been signed between the government of India (GoI) and the European Investment Bank (EIB) on March 31, 2017 in New Delhi. 
 
 The visiting EIB team comprised Andrew Denis Mcdowell, VP, Maria Shaw Barragan, deputy director, Global Partners Department, Angela Marcarino, head of division, Andrew Rosser, senior advisor to the vice-president, Sunita Lukkhoo, senior loan officer, operations in Asia and Pacific Division, Richard Willis, media officer, communication department, secretariat general and Donal Cannon, head of external office in New Delhi. 
 
