KOLKATA: The state government on Monday formed a six-member team, including a senior police officer and   , to   that led to the death of   at   Hospitals.The step was taken in response to the complaint by Sanjay's wife Rubi Roy , who turned up at the hopsital on Monday afternoon to pay the residual bill amount, a move indicating that she was getting ready to take on the hospital.

 The hospital put out a release in the evening stating that they were willing to bear the entire cost of Roy's treatment who died at SSKM Hospital on Friday . He was brought to Apollo a week ago after a road accident.
 
 The cops moved swiftly on Monday as the Phoolbagan police asked for relevant papers from the hospital. In addition, the investigating officer, additional OC Suman Kumar Naskar, has decided to summon Apollo doctor Shyamal Sarkar to record his statement. “We are at a very early stage of investigation. We do have a plan on how to proceed in this case,“ said DC (eastern suburban) Debasmita Das. Police have deci ded to move for a medical board for which they will approach the health department.
 
 Meanwhile, Rubi turned up at the hopsital around 2.30pm to deposit the rest of the money and fetch the fixed deposit slips that the hospital had kept as a security indicating that she was getting ready to fight against the hospital. “I am here to pay them the money and take back the fixed deposit slips that they had forced us to deposit with them,“ said Rubi, who was accompanied by her brothers and other relatives. She paid an amount of Rs 2,90,640.
 
 The hospital authorities have been trying to refund money they charged for treatment of Sanjay but his wife refused to accept it. “I do not want the ho spital to waive-off the money .They are sympathising with us now but what had happened when we begged them to release my husband so that we could shift him to SSKM? They delayed it which is why my husband died. They can return the money but can they return my husband? I do not want to show disrespect to my late husband by accepting a refund from the hopsital,“ she said.
 
 Apollo Gleneagles put out a release saying they wanted to refund the entire amount that went for the treatment of Sanjay Roy . “However, out of respect for the wishes and sentiments of his family , we have accepted the balance and returned all documents deposited with us,“ stated the release. Cops also plan to speak to and record statements of a few other witnesses, including hospital officials, before they decide on whether to summon general surgeon Dr Sarkar for questioning. The FIR mentions the name of only one doctor. Sources said the notice will be requisitioned under CrPC section 91.“The papers will relate to Roy's medical history and will include copy of the bills. In addition, we have asked the authorities to send us the rate charts,“ said an officer. Most importantly , the cops said it's the documents related to the final night of Roy at the hospital that they have requisitioned. The officers, however, clarified that they are yet to ask for any CCTV footage from the hospital.
 
