BHIWANDI: Two   of slain Congress corporator   from Bhiwandi were arrested near Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus on Saturday night. Police are still hunting for the main accused,  , the deceased’s cousin. 

 On Sunday, police produced Mayur Mhatre and Mahesh Mhatre before the holiday court that remanded them in police custody till February 28. 
 
 On February 14, when Manoj returned to his residence in Samruddhi building after filing a police complaint against Prashant for issuing threats to one of his supporters, around seven men, including Prashant, Mayur and Mahesh, attacked him, claimed police. They shot a round at him, stabbed him with choppers and fled in a waiting car. Manoj was rushed to Jupiter Hospital in Thane where he died during treatment. Footage of the assault was captured by a CCTV camera in the building, while other witnesses confirmed Prashant was present at the spot.
 
 Police registered a   case based on the statement of Manoj’s driver, who had witnessed the incident. “On getting information, that Mayur and Mahesh were visiting a spot near CST on Saturday night, we laid a trap and nabbed them,” said S D Jadhav, Narpoli senior police inspector. DCP (Thane zone-II) Manoj Patil said, “Nine teams are working on the case. We will soon nab all the accused.”
 
 Manoj, a three-time Congress corporator, was leader of the House in the Bhiwandi-Nizampura Municipal Corporation. Police said Manoj had personal as well as political differences with Prashant, the son of his uncle Bhaskar Mhatre, who launched Manoj in politics in 2002. 
 
 Sources said the rivalry dates back to 2012, when Prashant wanted to become a corporator and sought Manoj’s help, but he refused. Prashant filed his nomination as a Shiv Sena candidate but later withdrew. Manoj won the poll. In 2013, Prashant was arrested for shooting at Manoj, but was out on bail. Later, Prashant reportedly joined BJP. The cousins were gearing up for the Bhiwandi-Nizampura polls, which are likely to be held in April or May.
 
 
