COLVA: On Tuesday, at around 3.10pm,  , 40, was walking on the main road at Varca, when a speeding car driven by Damodar Hanuman Talwar rammed into her. The impact was such that she was thrown into the air and landed on her back. She sustained severe injuries on her head and limbs and is recuperating in hospital.

 Two days later, on Thursday, at 3am, in the village of Orlim, the driver of a speeding car lost control of the vehicle. It went off the road, hit a coconut tree and turned turtle. Later in the day, in the neighbouring village of Varca, at around 3pm another speeding car turned turtle after the driver hit the brakes to avoid hitting an oncoming two-wheeler.
 
 One night in October 2016, a speeding car rammed into two electricity poles and broke them.
 
 On the   stretch, accidents seem to be occurring with alarming frequency. The reason: when this stretch of road was given a fresh layer of hotmix carpet in preparation for the international BRICS summit, authorities removed all notified speed breakers along the entire stretch to allow for speedy movement of dignitaries’ vehicles, including those of world leaders.
 
 Five months after the summit, the public works department (PWD) is yet to put the speedbreakers back in place. Consequently, vehicles are speeding on this stretch of road, endangering lives of other motorists and pedestrians alike.
 
 Assistant engineer   blames the code of conduct for the delay in constructing speedbreakers, but when it is pointed out that the code came in force only in January 2017, he claims that after the work order was issued to the contractor, the machinery failed. Fernandes informs that speedbreakers will be in place immediately after the code of conduct is lifted.
 
 Meanwhile, every other day an accident occurs on the Benaulim-Cavelossim road.
 
 The PWD is not the only authority adopting such a lackadaisical approach. The police also seem to be a casual lot, citizens say.
 
 As per police records, only 10 accident cases have been registered from October 2016 till date. While this figure is high by itself, there are many cases that have remained unregistered.
 
 For instance, Thursday’s two accidents have not been registered even though the police were summoned to regulate traffic while the crane-cum-towing vehicle turned the vehicles and towed them away. Why? Because nobody complained. The police personnel in the patrol vehicle did not even effect a diary entry as the vehicle owner bore all expenses.
 
 “The parties involved in the accident settle the issue among themselves, hence we do not register any case,” Colva police inspector   says.
 
 For instance, in October 2016, a car rammed in two electrical poles at Varca and broke them. This amounts to destruction of government property. However, there is no record of the case at the police station. Within a couple of hours, the electricity department replaced the poles. Junior engineer N Nadkarni claims that the party paid the department the cost of the poles and other expenses. End of matter. No case, no record of accident.
 
 This area comes under the jurisdiction of the Colva traffic cell, which is absolutely not interested in carrying out their basic function of regulating and maintaining smooth movement of traffic in the area. The only duty they carry out is that of issuing fines for not wearing helmets. Ironically, they do not address the issue of speeding as long as the rider is wearing a helmet and the driver of the four-wheeler is wearing a seat belt.
 
 As many as five to six Colva traffic cell personnel block roads at the Colva-Mungul junction and Khareband at Benaulim just to issue fines. They are never seen on the Benaulim-Cavelossim road regulating traffic.
 
 “If there is an accident, information first goes to the Colva police. We collect data from there every morning,” PSI, traffic cell,  , says. When asked about speedbreakers he says, “After BRICS, we had written to the collector and PWD asking that the speedbreakers be constructed. We will send a reminder today.”
 
 Asked why his personnel are more interested in issuing fines and not in regulating traffic, he has no answer.
 
 
