RANCHI:   (Ajsu-P) has decided to amend its constitution to rename some of its wings and include ten representatives, each from four districts of Odisha and three districts of West Bengal, in the central committee. This   was placed during the three-day general convention that began here on Friday. 

 While the party is going to decide its future course of action and political agenda during the next couple of days, indications were loud and clear that the party is not ready to toe the line of its alliance partner BJP, which amended the Chotanagpur Tenancy (CNT) and   (SPT) Acts and also introduced a policy to declare locals without taking Ajsu leaders into confidence.
 
 Party spokesperson   said five amendments to the party's constitution were proposed, which includes renaming Jharkhand Swayam Sevak Sangathan as Ajsu Party Buddhijivi Manch and Akhil Jharkhand Mahila Samity as Akhil Jharkhand Mahila Sangh. 
 
 "The representation of people from Odisha and West Bengal is proposed to be increased in the central committee so that they have a say in the party affairs and are also eligible to cast their vote on important issues," Bhagat said. Ten representatives each from Mayurbhanj, Sundargarh, Keonjhar and Sambalpur districts of Odisha and Bankura, Midnapore and Purulia districts of West Bengal will be included in the central committee.
 
 Amendments have also been proposed to hold the general convention of the party once in every five years, instead of the present three-year gap. The last convention was organised in 2014 in Bokaro.
 
 Party's central president   said their party was duty bound to give proper honour to the kin of those who sacrificed their lives for the country. "Through discussions and debate, we must reach to a conclusion about the objectives of the formation of Jharkhand separate state and once we are able to decide if those objectives have been completed, we will be in a position to decide our future course of action," he said. 
 
 One of the party MLAs and central committee member Ramchandra Sahis said the party was vocal against the government's decision to define locals and extend benefits to a particular section of the society. "We have also written letters to the state government on the amendments made in the CNT and SPT Acts but a political stand will be clear only after the convention," he said. 
 
