JAIPUR: There’s relief in sight for the stressed out students of Kota. The state government is planning a music and sports ‘therapy’ in a bid to de-stress students in   there.

 Speaking at a programme, chief minister   revealed that she had directed the local administration to find out places where students can jam together with musicians.
 
 Talks are also on with Coke Studio to host a function there for spotting talents. Sports will also be promoted through competitions. Raje was speaking at a programme, All Smiles, held by the district administration in association with the Art of Living (AOL) Foundation.
 
 “Coaching students should participate in games, music, painting and other activities to explore and nurture their hidden talent,” said Raje, while directing coaching institutes and the administration to plan such activities for students.
 
 Recalling the three-day Coke Studio musical event held in Jaipur, she said, “Similar programmes should be held in Kota so that the youth get an opportunity to identify their talents and be groomed via such platforms.”
 
 Kota has seen 16 suicides by coaching students in 2016. Many succumb to the pressure created by themselves, parents and peer groups. Raje advised parents to stop putting unnecessary pressure on students while reminding coaching institutes to create a healthy ecosystem for students.
 
 Braving the chilly weather conditions, around 50,000 students from coaching institutes gathered to hear the chief minister.
 
 Raje interacted with coaching students and responded to questions put forward by students. Replying to a question by girl student Pooja on how to become a popular like her, Raje replied, “Fulfill all the promises you have made to yourself.”
 
 AOL head Sri Sri Ravi Shankar asked students to change their daily routine for relief from their stressful life. He also shared yoga and meditation tips with students and asked them to convert negative thoughts into positive.
 
 Kota has a coaching student population of 1.50 lakh. Students from classes VIII to XII pass outs come here to prepare for engineering and medical entrance exams. Over the past two years, the suicides rate has spiked despite efforts by district collector Ravi Kumar Surpur who introduced measures such as ‘Masti-Ki-Pathshala’, penned a graphic book and provided career counselling to ease the situation.
 
 BOX
 
 Raje claimed that the state government had constrcuted 22,000 km of roads in the last three years which had surpassed the target of 20,000 km set for the last five years. She was speakingafter laying the foundation stone of Rs 120.60 cr Gonda-Makida bridge in Kota on Sunday. She said another 10,000 km of road would be constructed in the next two years. 
 
