LUCKNOW: Of the 44 ministers, outsiders have got a  , but barring former  , not all have got significant ones . 

 While Joshi has got women and family welfare and women, child welfare and tourism, former Leader of Opposition from BSP and now cabinet minister, Swami Prasad Maurya has been allotted labour, urban employment and poverty alleviation. 
 
 Former Rajya Sabha MP and a prominent Brahmin face in BSP and now a cabinet minister, Brajesh Pathak has got law and legal services, additional energy resources and political pension. 
 
 Dara Singh Chauhan, who started off with BSP and later joined SP, has been given forest and environment, zoological gardens and horticulture. 
 
 Another outsider, SP Singh Baghel, who had joined BJP just before the 2014 LS polls and also contested the election from Firozabad seat against Ram Gopal Yadav's son Akshay, has got animal husbandry and minor irrigation and fisheries. He has been a three-time MP from Jalesar as an SP candidate from 1998 to 2004. 
 
 Laxmi Narain Chaudhary, who has been with Lok Dal, Congress and BSP earlier, is also now a cabinet minister. Chaudhary has been given dairy development, religious endowment, culture and minority welfare. 
 
 Another turncoat Nand Gopal Gupta 'Nandi', who was BSP minister and joined BJP just before the elections in January 2017, has got stamp and registration and civil aviation. 
 
 Dharam Singh Saini, a four-term MLA, was first elected in 2002 as a BSP nominee from Saraswan and appointed cabinet minister in the Mayawati government in 2007 after election from the same seat, joined BJP in September 2016 after BSP denied him a ticket. Made minister of state (Independent charge), Saini has been allotted ayush and relief and rehabilitation. 
 
 Similarly, Anil Rajbhar, a former SP member, joined BJP in 2015 and won from Shivpur Assembly segment of Varanasi district. Now a minister of state with Independent charge, he has been sainik kalyan, food processing and home guards and civil defence. 
 
 Likewise, Suresh Pasi, a former SP member, joined BJP just before the 2014 elections. There was a huge protest when BJP fielded him from Amethi (SC) seat in Gandhi family bastion Amethi. 
 
 The district general secretary of the party even resigned. But, he proved the party's trust right and snatched the seat from Congress in UP assembly election. 
 
 Rewarded as minister of state, Pasi has been allotted housing, vocational education and skill development. 
 
 
