Nora Roberts’s latest novel, 
  is a resounding best-seller added to her credit. With Come Sundown, the powerful romance fiction with a sizzling saga of familial love, dire passions, strength of character, and undeterred commitments, Roberts ventures deeper and darker into her narrative with a mystery that is quite veneered.

  
  is a romantic suspense novel set in the landscape of Montana which is home for the tightly-knit Longbow family that owns two large scale businesses: a resort and a ranch, alluring tourists with the bait of maximum Westernized experience. Supplying rich family details, Nora has sketched four generations of Longbow family with women of substance at the centre. Bodine, the protagonist, thinks she has it all figured out until the sudden appearance of her teenage crush; Callen and the long-lost aunt, Alice, one after the other bring with them an emotional upheaval and some forbidden secrets that hold the promise of rocking Bodine’s world out of order. Equipped with fiery dialogues, the book moves into unknown, nightmarish territories of unexpected violence and insecurity with Bodine and Callen working in sync to unveil the anonymous lunatic murderer.
 
  The story has a lot of mechanisms at work: the past and the present, the ranch and the resort, the romance and the mystery, the familial love and the revelations of family history, the violent psychopath and the disturbed Alice and the horse, Sundown, all interspersed with the magic of Nora Roberts’ language.
 
  Her ability to establish fine order between the dark and light elements i.e. love and suspense/violence is exemplary. The visual imagery is a feast. Roberts’ aptitude of situating a slow building romance in a fast-paced novel despite the violence and insecurity lurking at the corners is commendable. 
 
  
 
 
  
  writes, “With her past couple of titles, Roberts…is moving into more complex and darker storytelling, to terrific effect.”
 
  
  writes, “What makes this novel most engaging is Roberts’s ability to suffuse her story with rich details of one family’s life, as well as sizzling doses of romance and mystery.”
 
  Author 
  writes in the 
  that 
  is “impossible to put down”. 
 
 
