Nagpur: Coming down heavily on the plot seller for failure to complete registry of plots sold to eight customers, the Additional District Consumer Forum here, in a rare verdict, sentenced him to one year simple imprisonment. He was also slapped a fine of Rs40,000 for non-compliance of the forum’s earlier orders of either registering their plots or returning their amount within a month. In case of default, he would be put behind bars for about 24 days. Accused Purushottam Bhange, one of three partners of Subhadhra Realties, failed to register sale deeds of customers on plots at firm’s layout, despite clear orders from the forum. A bench comprising President Shekhar Mule and member Chandrika Bais held that when an agreement was inked between customers and a partnership firm, the terms and conditions are binding on all its partners. The panel also absolved of other partners—Subhash Mate and Dilip Hinge—from all charges labelled by the complainants. Complainants Anmol Bhurle, Vaishnavi Khadaskar and six others purchased plots from the Subhadhra Realties, but the partners failed to register their sale deeds since 2008. They then lodged a complaint with the forum under Section 12 of Consumer Protection Act, 1986, which ordered the firm to register their sale deeds or return their investment with 9% interest. However, the firm didn’t comply with its order for a long time and neither responded to its notices. It led to complainants against knocking judiciary’s doors for non-compliance of its orders, invoking Section 27 of the Act. The complainants prayed for registry of their plots or refund of full payment as per prevailing rates prescribed by the state government. Bhange’s partners, Mate and Hinge, showed willingness to register sale deeds, but cited Bhange refusal to sign the document for registration. Even the applicants corroborated their claims. In his defence, Bhange contended that the agricultural land purchased for the proposed layout only had an unregistered sale deed made in 2009, but sale of plots started in 2008 by his other partners. He had reserved one-third portion of the layout with a view to sell some plots on his own. Mate and Hinge were not owners of the layout in 2008 and sold plots from his one third portion. Therefore, it was not his responsibility to get the sale deeds registered and is not liable to repay the customers. He argued that the applicants were not his customers and sale deed was not binding on him. He also failed to challenge original order of the forum. While cancelling Bhange’s bail bonds, the forum held that applicants are his customers and the contract was binding on all three partners in a firm. “When a customer inked a contract with a partnership firm, all its partners become vicariously responsible, as the pact was not signed individually. So, if one partner refuses to sign a deed, he can’t be absolved of its responsibility, the judges held, before partly allowing the case. (With inputs from Mohnish Nelarwar)