LUCKNOW:   chief   decision to resign from   will only advance her party’s depletion in the   by around 10 months. Mayawati, who announced her resignation from the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday, saying she was stopped from speaking on the issue of Dalit atrocities, was going to retire from Rajya Sabha in April 2018 and may not have repeated her term given the bleak strength of 19 MLAs in the UP Assembly.

 Political experts view Mayawati’s move as an attempt of aggression against the BJP by raking up the anger of Dalits. “Mayawati would have anyhow been out of Rajya Sabha and would not have been able to come back easily, so she probably saw an opportunity to strengthen her image as torch-bearer of Dalit cause by resigning after being stopped from speaking on the issue of Dalit atrocities in Saharanpur,” said political expert J P Shukla.
 
 In 2015, Mayawati got into a war of words with the then HRD minister Smriti Irani in Rajya Sabha over the issue of suicide by Hyderabad University’s Dalit scholar Rohith Vemula. This was after her party got decimated to nil in 2014 Lok Sabha elections.
 
 The four-time UP chief minister has been staring at political oblivion since 2017 UP Assembly elections in which her party’s strength reduced from 80 to barely 19. BSP sources said Mayawati’s announcement to resign from Rajya Sabha was aimed at fueling the anger of Dalits and further cement her position as a champion of Dalit cause. “It is a master stroke of our leader. We can now tell our supporters that BJP forced Behenji to resign from the Rajya Sabha since she tried to raise the issue of Dalit atrocities. She is sure to consolidate her position in the coming months and force other parties to support her,” said a senior BSP leader.
 
 Political experts, however, said Mayawati may find it hard to return to Rajya Sabha in 2018 and could think of lending support to other parties by fielding a candidate for the upper house. “This somehow, raises chances of BSP’s fresh political tie-ups,’’ said a political expert.
 
 BJP MP and president of SC Morcha in UP, Kaushal Kishore termed Mayawati’s resignation as a political drama. “She knows her party is in no position to come back and she is just trying to gain sympathy,’’ he said. 
 
 
