NAGPUR: City   leaders are all set for the grand celebrations for   Nitin Gadkari’s 60th birthday on Saturday. Final touches to the preparations were given on Friday.

 Guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule held a large number of meetings in rural areas of the district to ensure there is a decent crowd at Kasturchand Park on Saturday evening. The target is 50,000 people. He has invited party workers and other citizens to attend the programme. To ensure a good show, Bawankule conducted 27 meetings in his assembly constituency Kamptee alone in the last few days.
 
 Bawankule has appealed to people attending the function not to bring garlands, bouquets, shawl and coconut. They should just greet Gadkari on the stage and express their feelings, he said.
 
 City leaders have also held meetings to ensure a large number of Nagpurians attend the programme. City BJP president Sudhakar Kohale, ruling party leader in Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) Sandip Joshi and others are working hard to make the function a success.
 
 Other than the main function at Kasturchand Park, leaders of BJP linked organizations are organizing a large number of other functions to mark Gadkari’s birthday. A free health check-up camp for police officials and constables has been organized by Alpasankhyak Morcha, Jain Samaj, Nagpur. The overzealous activists have put up posters on the gates of 12 police stations. Many other such camps too have been organized in the city.
 
 The activists of BJP’s Nagpur South-West unit have started cleaning Sonegaon lake under the leadership of Sandip Joshi to mark Gadkari’s birthday. The drive will continue till Sunday evening. The BJP leaders have assured that they will continue the drive beyond this if required.
 
 On Saturday morning, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis will release a book on Gadkari’s life. A vocational training institute named after Gadkari will also be inaugurated near Narkhed on this day.
 
 BJP will present Rs 1.01 crore to Gadkari during the function on Saturday. This amount has been collected through Rs1 lakh contributions from all BJP MLAs and MPs of the state. The amount will be donated to 100 charitable institutions. The names of the recipients will be announced by Gadkari.
 
 Several top politicians, including BJP national president Amit Shah, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, former union minister and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar,   chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Chhattisgarh chief minister Raman Singh, Assam governor Banwarilal Purohit, former Union home minister   of Congress, Union minister Ramdas Athawale of RPI, state industries minister Subhash Desai of Shiv Sena, and former state revenue minister   of Congress will attend the function.
 
 The BJP has organized a musical programme of singers Sudesh Bhonsale and Vaishali Samant at Kasturchand Park at 5.30pm. They will present Hindi and Marathi songs before the felicitation ceremony begins at 7.30pm.
 
