This budget offers some initiatives, which could improve Bengaluru's contribution to the state. Bengaluru, the primary city of Karnataka, which is more than eight times bigger than Mysuru, is economically important in terms of its share of investment proposals and credit disbursed by banks.

 A road network spanning150km has been proposed to decongest traffic in the city. With the controversial steel bridge shelved, the budget has also proposed widening of some flyovers and construction of underbridges. A sum has been allocated for the BBMP to build railway over bridges and underbridges to enable uninterrupted movement of vehicles. These are positive developments, given that travel time to work has been increasing, and companies have been threatening to move out of Bengaluru because productivity is being hit. However, the development of roads, flyovers and underbridges is only part of the problem.
 
 The bigger problem is to do with transport modes. While the budget says the feasibility study for   3 is complete, it proposes addition of 3,000 buses to the BMTC fleet, of which 150 will run on electricity. While procuring more buses rather than the Metro given the price factor, is a welcome move, the vehicles have to be made affordable and frequent. They must offer lastmile connectivity in remote areas. Another problem is that the incentives offered to high-income commuters to switch to public transport haven't worked. Though the proposed electric buses will be environment-friendly, the number is too small for them to have a significant impact on the city's   quality.
 
 While the budget has proposed separate toilets for women staff in police stations, there is nothing to supplement the Swachh Bharat Mission.The proposal to provide 10,000 litres of water every month to slum residents living in 30x20 sites (free of cost) is populist and location specific, and could encourage over consumption wastage of water during summer months. The grant for development of storm water drains within BBMP limits would help rejuvenate infrastructure in the city's peripheral areas, if at all it rains! It is proposed that the   (BDA) will complete 3,000 flats by end of 2017-18, which is only a drop in the ocean, and treats only a symptom of the housing malady, not the underlying cause. Land use regulations in our cities are too restrictive, and transaction costs for developers are too high, which they end up passing on to consumers. Unless these regulations are streamlined and simplified, affordable housing will continue to be a dream in Bengaluru, as in other Indian cities.
 
 
 
 
