NASHIK: The real victims of the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited’s ( )   will be the personnel who will carry out the work as there is   for them to work efficiently.

 Lack of equipment will force the workers will to climb up the poles and trees to cut the branches than doing the same with the help of bucket cranes.
 
 “In a team of about 10 members under the command of the assistant engineer, 50% are seniors who climb onto the trees and electricity poles. This definitely retards the momentum of carrying out preventive maintenance and repairs. If we had bucket cranes that lift the people to the height of the poles we would be able to carry out the work efficiently,” said an assistant engineer of MSEDCL.
 
 Under the preventive maintenance being carried out on a weekly basis all through April and May, the trees are trimmed and insulators on top of the electricity poles are inspected and replaced if required.
 
 The move to trim the branches of trees has been initiated so that there will be no power cut during monsoons due to branches falling on it.
 
 There is a huge quantum of the work that has to be carried out in the short period. “We have to trim the trees for a stretch of about 120km and deal with about 4,000 electricity poles. The trimming is outsourced. But, it still takes time. If we had proper equipment the task would have been done swifter and in a better manner,” the officer said. 
 
 “The faster we do the work, the shorter will be the duration of the power cuts on days that we work. The power supply has to be snapped when we work,” said a   member. 
 
 A senior official said that the company cannot afford such mechanism currently.
 
 “We have enough manpower who are capable of climbing trees and poles to carry out the maintenance work and repairs. So we have no such provision, nor has any such proposal been made despite demands from the staff,” an official said.
 
 The power supply company has also recruited youngsters as   who have been trained in scaling the poles.
 
