Panaji: Two Goan heroes but two different receptions.
 When Anurag Mhamal became the first Goan chess grandmaster and landed at the Dabolim international airport less than a fortnight ago, children and fans made their presence felt at the airport.
  On Friday, Goa’s cricket star Shikha, a member of the Indian team that made it to the final of the ICC Women’s   and lost agonisingly against England at Lord’s, arrived, but not many took note. Probably it was because the Goa Cricket Association ( ) didn’t take active interest in publicising her arrival. Shikha, too, wanted a low-key arrival. But imagine what would have happened had Shikha returned home after winning the World Cup.
  That disappointing feeling will linger for some time, especially for Shikha who could have won the Cup for India. The Goan allrounder had a bad day in the final. She bowled seven overs and conceded 53 runs without a wicket. She could have made amends when she was at the crease with Deepti Sharma. The duo put on 17 runs and at 218-7, India needed just 11 runs from the 16 remaining balls. In an attempt to take a non-existent single, Shikha got run out and with it India’s hopes came crashing down.
  The first question, not surprisingly, that journalists asked her upon arrival was the nine-run loss in the final on Sunday. Shikha was expecting it.
  “Everyone keeps asking me the same question. I could have won the final for India. I should have done that. May be nerves. During the last part of the game, England took singles. I feel better understanding could have helped us,” said Shikha, who was welcomed at the airport by her parents, GCA CEO Prashant Kakode and his wife Anita, chairperson of GCA’s women’s selection committee.
  “As a player, you want to win every game for India. Unfortunately, it doesn’t always turn out that way. Some days will not be yours. I am trying to learn with every game I play. The next time I face the same situation, I will take my team through. It was a learning experience,” said Shikha.
  Shikha’s disappointing performance in the final was in sharp contrast to her showing earlier in the tournament, including the crucial last league clash against New Zealand and semifinal against Australia. The Goan took eight wickets in six matches and her economy rate of 3.69 was among the best in the World Cup. She also provided early breakthroughs in must-win games against New Zealand and Australia in the semifinals.
  “Reaching the final is a very big achievement for women’s cricket in India. Women’s cricket will certainly grow now. I will try to improve and become a bowling all-rounder,” said Shikha.
  She will take a deserving rest at home after a gruelling season but will soon be back on the field.
  “It is time for off-season training now. I can work hard and do net practice,” she said.
