The narrow, serpentine lanes that lead to it don't quite prepare you for what the huge house of renowned Varanasi astrologer   has to offer. The Bhadury family has owned, and kept in this house, over 40,000 ancient manuscripts, some of them rare enough to be the only ones in the world. That's a conservative number given by the Bhadury family. If experts are to be believed, there must be around a lakh of rare manuscripts in the collection.

 “Perhaps the rarest and the biggest in the country, the collection is so rich that one cannot really assess its exact value, both in literary and monetary terms. Every manuscript expert in the country would vouch for its invaluable legacy,“ said deputy librarian of   (BHU), DK Singh, who is an expert in restoration and conservation of manuscripts.
 
 Some manuscripts in the collection are those we have read about in our history books; the rest would be known only to historians. To name a few, `Bh rigu Samhita', `Dharmveda' and `Nagaruna Kukshputam' are invaluable as they focus on dif ferent fields of knowledge. 'Goraksh Godhri' was written in the 16th century by   of the Gorakh pith of Gorakhpur. The current chief minister, Aditya Nath Yogi, is the pithadishwar of this pith.
 
 The collection was first owned by Sudhir Ranjan Bhadury, Bramh Gopal's father, who belonged to the royal family of Navdeep (Nadia) in West Bengal, and settled in Varanasi in the mid-19th century. “The collection had earned quite a name for itself even back then. It finds mention in the work of one Glep Kalyan and a journalist from some European country had also visited my grandfather to see it. It also finds mention in 'Gupt Bharat Ki Khoj',“ said Bramh Gopal's younger son Hemant Kumar as he let TOI go through the collection. He said, “My father was just 13 when my grandfather died. Soon after, most of the collection was passed on to Sampurnanand Sanskrit University, Sampurnanand (Sanskrit and Hindi scholar Dr Sampurnanand) being a friend and disciple of my grandfather.“ When   grew up, he turned to the court to reclaim his father's collection and won in 1993. Since then, the collection has stayed with the family. “We want these manuscripts to be conserved and microfilmed so that experts and scholars can decipher the content,“ said Jayant Kumar, Bramh Gopal's son. “Many foreign agencies, including Wikimedia, have approached us but we always wanted our own experts to do the work of conservation,“ he said.
 
 National coordinator at national mission for manuscripts, Delhi, Kriti Srivastava said, “We have been trying to get the approval of this family for conserving these manuscripts for a long time.Getting their consent is a big achievement and the entire nation would benefit once we manage to conserve these ancient manuscripts.“ The institution, which comes under the ministry of culture, Government of India, hunts for such manuscripts across the country and conserves them for posterity.
 
 “The central agency wouldn't press for the original collection to be handed over; it can remain with the Bhadurys. Experts would only need prints for research,“ said BHU's Singh.
 
