BENGALURU: Close on the heels of an alleged diary that claims to have entries of sitting Karnataka ministers giving black money to the party high command, the Congress retaliated with a supposed diary seized from   that claims to give money to   Rs 154 crore during the saffron party reign in 2013.

 Releasing an alleged diary that has been doing the rounds in the social media, Karnataka pradesh Congress committee working president Dinesh Gundu Rao said the diary also had a signature similar to that of Sisoriya who was the former treasurer of the   during the reign of B S Yeddyurappa.
 
 Rao said the diary was seized by the I-T department during raids conducted on Sisorya’s home and office on November 9, 2013.
 
 “The diary seems to be speaking about the same allegations which have been levelled against the Congress government. Will the BJP now seek the resignation of their leadership. I do not know who is Namo or AS, but it is the same with the names of RG and SG allegedly found in the said diary that was seized from MLC Govindraju’s home. So will they seek resignation of their BJP national leadership on moral grounds?” questioned Rao and Congress MLCs V S Ugrappa, H M Revanna, Ivan D’Souza and Sharanappa Mattur.
 
 The said diary speaks of abbreviations like CMO+RA, M Nirani, Renu, JS, SK, SR, RR + KSE, DVS + PS, others (companies and contractors), all of whom are mentioned under a column listed as “recieved”.
 
 At the other end, another column of “paid” shows name of AS, BSY, Namo, SS, AK, MD Rao, DP, party fund, media (PTV) and HV.
 
 The total amount recieved has been calculated in the diary at Rs 391.5 crore and the total paid tallys to that amount of Rs 391.5 crore.
 
 However, Sisoriya dismissed the diary as a total fabrication and said the contents do not even tally.
 
 “First and foremost, the diary shows a signature of mine with Leher. I never sign in that fashion and always put my signature as Lahar. Also, when I was the treasurer of the BJP, neither Amit Shah nor   were part of the national leadership. The alleged diary is fabricated and my signature is forged,” he said.
 
 Singh said he never ever maintained a diary and the contents were laughable and childish.
 
 The Congress on its part has asked for an impartial probe by the hands of a sitting Supreme Court judge to get to the bottom of all these diaries which are being released by either of the two parties.
 
 “Be it the Leher singh diary, the Sahara-Birla diary or the supposed diary seized from MLC Govindraju, let there be a probe by a sitting SC judge. We will face the consequences, if the diary against us is proved. Is the BJP or the Centre ready for the same?” questioned Congress leaders.
 
