AHEMDABAD: In a first, Gujarat high court on Tuesday transferred from its   to the state’s   ( ) the investigation into corruption charges against two  .

 Justice Sonia Gokani directed ACB assistant director Rupal Solanki to complete the probe within three months in this case. Incidentally, there is no provision in the rules to assign a probe in a corruption case involving a judicial officer to any agency other than the high court’s vigilance cell  . 
 
 Solanki will work in consultation with HC’s registrar (vigilance). She has been asked to look into seven aspects of the hitherto lackadaisical investigation, including collection of call details of judges and others involved in the ‘unpardonable’ crime. The high court ordered an ACB on a petition filed by advocate Jagat Patel who had allegedly caught two judges on a hidden camera when they were demanding money and putting pressure for a bribe in 2014. The two judges are P D Inamdar and A D Acharya, who were then serving in Vapi town. 
 
 After Patel’s sting operation, both the judges were suspended, an FIR filed and the vigilance cell’s investigating officer (IO) AC Jadeja initiated the investigation after arresting them.
 
 Patel moved the high court in December 2015 with a complaint that the vigilance cell was going slow on the judges by not filing a chargesheet and thereby allowing them to be released on default bail. No necessary evidence had been collected. Advocate Patel demanded a CBI probe in this case.
 
 When the high court inquired about non-filing of chargesheet in time, it was told that the FSL report on electronic evidence was awaited. After going to the draft chargesheet, Justice Gokani found it hollow. 
 
 The high court said that the FSL report was never a necessity in filing a chargesheet and it can be submitted at a later stage. The high court was appalled by the way vigilance cell functioned with only 15% staff and no regular investigator.
 
 The high court declined a CBI probe on the ground that the case does not have national or international ramifications. However, looking at the way the vigilance cell functions, it said the case is fit for transfer of probe to a specialized agency.
 
 Expressing unhappiness at the sorry state of the vigilance cell, Justice Gokani said mere issuance of notification for creation of such an independent body is not enough without adequate manpower. Insisting on changing rules if need be, the high court asked the registrar general to refer the issue to the chief justice for further direction. The government has also been asked to depute manpower to the cell at the earliest.
 
