HYDERABAD: Once the seat of power,   has fallen on bad days. The Haveli was witness to the childhood of at least two   rulers and is a masterpiece of 18th century architecture, but encroachments have eaten into the 28 acre-premises, leaving less than 10 acres.

 Purani Haveli is one of the four palaces of the Asaf Jah rulers. While Falaknuma, Chowmohalla and King Kothi are private properties of  , grandson of Nizam VII Mir Osman Ali Khan, the Purani Haveli is managed by a trust. The history of Purani Haveli, also known as Haveli Qadeem, dates back to 1777 when the Nizam II, Nizam Ali Khan, acquired land from a nobleman Rukn-ud-Dowla. He constructed a palace for his son, Mir Akbar Ali Khan, who became the Nizam III under the title Sikandar Jah.
 
 The Nizam VI,  , spent his childhood in the Haveli while his son and successor, Mir Osman Ali Khan, was born there. The Nizam V, Afzal-ud-Dowla, too spent a major portion of his life in the Haveli.
 
 The Purani Haveli once had three palaces, but only one of them, Masarath Mahal, the official residence of Mir Mahbub Ali Khan, remains today .The other palaces have been put to different uses.
 
 According to some historians, the Nizam V and the Nizam VI were born in Masarath Mahal and the latter spent most of his life there. His famed wardrobe, the largest of its kind in the world, is now part of the Nizam's Museum.However, it has not been scientifically preserved. Another treasure is a manually-operated wooden lift, which is still in a working condition.
 
 Apart from the eight-acre Masarath Mahal, Purani Haveli has a number of ancillary structures, including Zenana Mahal, Balakhana and Rahat Mahal. Masarath Mahal lost its prominence after the Asaf Jah shifted their focus to Chowmohalla.
 
 The Purani Haveli is one of the surviving examples of the Asaf Jah rulers' love for art and architecture. But lack of maintenance has affected it.The complex was whitewashed several years ago. A huge gate at the entrance is also no more.
 
