BENGALURU: After 14 years of playing hooky, a police constable was finally dismissed on September 18. The   No. 4519 -K Chikkaraju of SR Nagar -only emphasizes that the wheels of administration grind slowly.

 Instead of  , the government let the case drag, giving the truant cop second and third chances.
 
 Chikkaraju joined the police force in 1980 and served in the   for 23 years. In 2003, he was posted to guard the  . On October 15 that year, he disappeared without informing his superiors or seeking leave of absence. Giving him the benefit of doubt and the possibility of him suffering from health issues, the government extended his service and sent him a notice in 2004, stating his extended leave of absence will be considered as leave without pay. Chikkaraju accepted the notice in July 2005, and agreed to return to work.
 
 Four years went by. And he did not comply. The government sent another notice in 2009. Finally, in May 2010, the government decided to issue him a final warning that he would be dismissed.
 
 Fearing loss of pension and other retirement benefits, Chikkaraju decided to respond to the notice in June 2010, and said he would rejoin that month. But the elusive cop decided to further extend his seven years of absence, without any explanation.Then Bengaluru DCP (central) and   dismissed him after conducting a one-sided inquiry.
 
 Chikkaraju decided to contest this order and sought a review of the disciplinary action in 2011. He was granted a review in 2012. Chikkaraju is said to have given a vague explanation of being unwell as a reason for his unexplained absence from service for eight years.
 
 However, it took five years for the government to set aside the constable's review petition. The additional commissioner of police (admin) of Bengaluru City Police said Chikkaraju did not have the documentation or evidence to prove he was unwell, so his review was dismissed.
 
 The final order ratifying Constable No. 4519's dismissal was issued last week. It is still not clear how he sustained himself all these years.
 
