KOCHI: The state's government schools are showing resurgence but they along with private schools leave a lot to be desired when it comes to reading and arithmetic skills of students.

  (rural) data for reading in mother tongue or solving math in class V do not show much consistent improvement for either government or private schools.
 
 Educationists said there is an urgent need to improve the children's skills both in private and government schools. “On one hand, reading habit of children may have reduced and on the other children, when enrolled in English medium school, fail to have proper understanding of the subject as they don't get to learn in their mother tongue,“ said educationist C  .
 
 The percentage of children who can read in class III has come down both in private and government schools in the last 6 years. In 2010, almost 43 %   students and 54 %   students could read well. But in 2016, it came down to 38 % in government schools and 52 % in private schools. Reading tasks includes ability to read commonly used letters, familiar words and simple sentences.
 
 The trend is no different even in classes V and VIII. While the percentage of children in a government school who can read a standard II-level text in class V came down from 74 % in 2010 to 63 % in 2016, in private schools it dropped from 78 % to 75 % during the same period. In class VIII, the reading ability in government schools dipped from 88 % to 83% while in private schools it fell from 91 % to 88 %. The arithmetic skills too have fallen.The percentage of children who can do at least subtraction in class III dropped from 58 % to 36 % in government schools and 73 % to 53 % in private schools. The percentage of children who can do division in class III and VIII has also dropped. While in class V government schools, the drop is from 43 % to 27 % in class VIII it is from 78 % to 49 % in last six years. On the other hand, even in class V private schools, there is a drop from 53 % in 2010 to 49 % in 2016 and in class VIII, the drop is from 83 % in 2010 to 58 % last year. But the percentage of children who can read English sentences in class V has shown a marginal increase in government schools in the last two years.
 
 ASER says that there are three factors behind this -first, a strong demand from parents and parental support for children's learning. Second, the human capital -the teachers -is probably getting better at teaching English. A possible third factor could be the introduction of one or two years of pre-school that prepares children for  .
 
