PANAJI: Students vying for a seat at St Xavier’s Higher Secondary School,  , state’s largest higher secondary school, left nothing to chance as they queued up for hours and well before the break of dawn on Friday.

 Sherwin Fernandes from Mapusa, who works in Dubai, had heard of the chaos that takes place every year and flew down to oversee his daughter’s admission. The father-daughter duo had reached the campus as early as 3am only to find that a number of students had beaten them to be in the front of the line.
 
  from Colvale had arrived at 7am, received a token number of 60 and was able to exit the campus only at 11am after completing the formalities. Pre-empting the rush, the school’s attendants were called in at 5am along with traffic police barricades to bring in some order to the chaos. Students shoved and desperate parents argued with attendants, manning the gates of the school building, who struggled to issue tokens.
 
 About 1,500 students sought admission for about 800 seats in science, commerce, arts and vocational streams at the premier higher secondary school. Akin to customs clearance at airports, each stream had two queues, a green channel and a normal channel. Those who secured a percentage of 85, 75 and 70% and above were granted access through the green channel for admissions in science, commerce and arts streams, respectively, on a first-come-first-serve basis. Their admission was confirmed after they paid their fees.
 
 Those in the normal channel with the cut-off of 80% for science, 70% for commerce and 65% for arts weren’t as lucky. While some were able to confirm their admission, others despite having waited for hours in the queue went back with no confirmation.
 
  from   had reached the school before 5am, but she received no confirmation of her admission despite waiting in the queue for five hours. “The entire process should be online. Or tokens should have been issued to all those waiting in the queue and the numbers called out on a loudspeaker,” said a frustrated parent from Saligao.
 
 Principal of the higher secondary school   said about 800 seats were filled up within the first two hours of the admission process kicking off. “Despite introducing 20 counters on various floors of the building, there was a rush. We’re helpless. We weighed the pros and cons of the online admission process, but realized that this was the better option where we could confirm admissions on the spot,” he told TOI.
 
 Stating that higher secondary section doesn’t admit students from Panaji and South Goa as students are unable to reach on time, the principal added, “We want to give an opportunity to locals in the area.”
 
 When asked about the mad rush, Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education chairman Jose Remedios Rebello said that with 900 less students appearing for the SSC examination this year compared to last year, there shouldn’t ideally be a rush at higher secondary schools in the state.
 
