GURUGRAM: A   gang broke into a house in   in the early hours of Friday and   the family living there before fleeing with cash, jewellery, mobiles and other valuables, worth several lakhs.

 The robbery happened around 3am on Friday at the house of 50-year-old Akbar Yadav at Dhani Ramjilal. The robbers knocked on the door and declared they were cops who were looking for illegal arms. The family opened the door, hearing them, but discovered it had been deceived. 
 
 After entering the house, the robbers started thrashing the women of the family and even snatched their earrings. Within 20 minutes, they managed to collect all the jewellery and cash from the house and flee. According to Yadav, there were around eight robbers who came armed with rods, country pistols and sticks with them. 
 
 “They asked my wife, Ombati, to give them the cupboard keys and when she resisted they hit her with an iron rod. One of them dragged my daughter-in-law, Babita, along with my 10-month old grandson and threatened to kill child. They tied my hands and legs. We were scared for our lives, so we gave away keys.They stole Rs 1 lakh cash, gold and silver jewellery worth Rs 3 lakh, three mobiles and other valuables,” said Yadav. “Once they left, my wife untied me and I rushed to the neighbours for help. On reaching there I was told it was not just us who were robbed. The robbers had stolen ghee, milk and cash from their house too.” 
 
 Yadav’s son was out of town at the time of the incident and only four members were there . 
 
 After getting information, a police team reached the spot. Tanya Singh, ACP (Pataudi), SHO, Farrukhnagar and   police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar also visited the house.
 
 An FIR has been registered against the unidentified robbers under sections 458 (breaking into a house to commit offence), 395 (dacoity) of IPC and 25-54-59 Arms Act at Farrukhnagar police station. 
 
 “We have already started the probe and formed three special teams to look into the matter. We have got some leads and hope to arrest the robbers soon,” police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar said. 
 
 
