PUNE: German company Dorsch will prepare the   (DPR) and will also develop the new airport at Purandar, senior officials of Maharashtra Airport Development Company Limited (MADC) announced on Friday.

 After a three-hour meeting with senior officials of the Pune district administration, MADC vice-chairman and managing director Vishwas M Patil said the company, which had prepared the DPR and developed airports in cities like Berlin, Munich, Kuwait and Frankfurt has been given the contract. 
 
 “The meeting focused on   for landowners whose land will be taken for the project. A global tender had been floated for choosing a consultant who will be preparing the DPR for the project. There were many bidders and a Germany-based company was chosen. There are two phases as per the contract — one related to the finalisation of the DPR and the second related to developing the new airport. The site for the airport remains unchanged and it will happen in Purandar only,” Patil told TOI.
 
 Maharashtra chief minister   had announced the new airport project, named after Chhatrapati Sambhaji Raje, in October last year. He had said the airport will spread across an area of 2,400 hectare. The new airport, which is expected to be built at a cost of Rs 14,000 crore, will take at least five years to complete and be operational.
 
 “The obstacle limitation survey (OLS), which was done by the district administration and MADC, will be sent to the MADC board of directors for study. Another meeting of the MADC board of directors with the Pune district administration will be held and further studies will take place. Taking into account all the factors, the compensation package will be declared for the people within a fortnight. Dorsch will be starting the techno feasibility study or the DPR preparation soon and will hold site surveys. The finalisation of the DPR will take six months,” Vishwas Patil said.
 
 ‘Houses won’t be touched’
 
 Patil said the acquisition of land will take place in seven villages – Pargaon, Udachiwadi, Vanpuri, Kumbarvan, Ekhatpur, Manjauri and Khanauri. He added that the MADC assures that the houses of the villagers would stay intact. “Only the land will be acquired and adequate compensation package will be given. The villagers have been complaining and protesting against the project and we believe that the protests will subside and people will be happy,” Patil told TOI.
 
 Landowners still unhappy 
 
 However, the villagers who have formed the Vimantar Virodhi Sangharsh Samarthak Sanghatan, would like to differ. 
 
 “They are saying that the villages will not be touched. But our fight is different. It is about our land, which will go away and we cannot allow this to happen. We are protesting and our stance remains the same. The protests will kick off soon,” Datta Dhurange, the president of the organization and a resident of Pargaon village , told TOI.
 
 Many options available
 
 Pune collector Saurabh Rao told TOI that the landowners will be given a choice of compensation packages.
 
 “We have studied different models like the land pooling scheme of Andhra Pradesh and the compensation plan taken up by Kerala for the Cochin airport. Other states have rolled out just one consolidated package for those affected in their states. But we have an initial compensation package ready and the plan is to give at least three to four options to the villagers,” he said.
 
 The villagers can study and choose the one they feel is best. There is still a lot of work to be done and the administration will hold dialogues with the landowners simultaneously in order to assure them that they will not be cheated in anyway, Rao told TOI.
 
 Around Rs 2,000 crore is expected to be spent on land acquisition, the collector added.
 
