PUNE: A  , which had apparently ventured out of the forest area near   in  , was found dead near Chandani Chowk on Thursday. Forest officials believe it must have come out in search of water and mauled to death by  . 

 Mahesh Bhavsar, assistant conservator of forests, Pune, said, “As summer approaches, deer wander out of the forest area in search of water. Any place with water will also have cooler surroundings making it favourable for the animal. However, this is also where they are attacked by stray dogs and killed. The mud around these watering holes is loose and sticky inhibiting their hops to escape and making them easier to hunt.” 
 
 “On an average, three deer die in such a manner every year,” he added.
 
 “Four animals died under similar circumstances around this area in the summer months of March, April and May last year. While one was killed in an accident, the other three were attacked by stray dogs. The attacks took place in forest areas of Warje-Malwadi, Khadakwasla and Katraj,” Bhavsar said. These areas on the outskirts have a significant number of stray dogs, he added.
 
 “The high number of stray dogs in these areas can be attributed to the civic body’s dog squad catching them from various parts of the city and releasing them on the outskirts,” said Meher Mathrani, animal welfare officer, Pune.
 
 “These dogs usually feed on garbage dumps or are fed by animal lover communities in the city. In the outskirts, however, there are neither dumps to scavenge from, nor anyone to feed the animals. Moreover, there may already be other dogs in the area, forcing the animals to hunt for their food, resulting in the deer being killed,” she said.
 
 First case this year
 
 Deaths of deer are usually recorded in the months of summer. However, this year, the first case has occurred in January. 
 
 “There are three watering holes in the 100-hectare forest area, which are full. When there is water scarcity or too much heat during summer, they sometimes move out of the area and get attacked. We are planning to have more water holes in the forest area before summer begins,” Bhavsar said.
 
 “A post-mortem of the fully-grown male deer found dead on Thursday will reveal the exact cause of its death,” he added.
 
