VISAKHAPATNAM: The fascinating   has always interested the young and the old alike. The  , the  ,  , the animals with their ringmaster, the   and acrobatics — all have kept the audience spellbound for decades. The port city is currently hosting the 94-year-old Great Bombay Circus for over a month now.

 But how is life for the circus artists outside the performance arena? “It’s like an extended family travelling together, with pan-India members,” say all together.
 
 Tulsidas Chowdhury, the oldest member, had been with the circus family for 57 years. “When as a little child, I first saw a circus in my native village of Chhapra in Bihar, I just loved the new world. Mera dil lag gya tha (I was hooked to it) and my family’s repeated efforts to bring me home failed. I am a dwarf and I got trained as a joker,” said joker Tulsidas.
 
 Hoola hoop artist Poonam Jadav from Punjab and her Maharashtrian husband juggler Suraj Jadav have been associated with the circus for three generations — grandparents, parents and now them. “We met and interacted and did shows together. That’s how we fell in love and got married a few years ago,” said Poonam Jadav, mother of a toddler Vihaan. Poonam has also performed in various television programmes and reality shows.
 
 Her husband Suraj pointed out, “Contrary to the derogatory manner in which circus life is usually portrayed in films and TV shows, in reality, we are happy to be in the circus. From adequate monthly salaries to free food, lodging, medicines, travelling — all expenses are borne by the company. We are safe here and there is no torture or coercion on the artists.”
 
 The livelihood of 186 staff are connected to the Great Bombay Circus. There are 53 artists from various parts of India and Nepal, around 50 per cent of whom are women. Besides, there are four acrobat artists from Ethiopia. 36 types of performances are shown within two hours.
 
 Artists like Michael Topp from Kolkata and his partner Vijay Kumar from Dehradun are in demand for the most risky game that they performs — stunt biking within a small globe. “I like gymnastics and stunts. But it took almost 18 months of training to become a stunt biker inside the globe.”
 
 Circus is incomplete without the ringmaster and shows by the animals. Ringmaster and animal trainer for 22 years Shiv Prasad, the only man from Andhra Pradesh (Vijayawada), rued that the government ban on wild animals in circus has partially taken off the sheen from the shows.
 
 Many luminaries have witnessed the circus in its 94-year history including former Prime Ministers Lal Bahadur Shastri and Indira Gandhi and several actors. 
 
 Late Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalitha had also presented the ‘Best Circus’ award to them while certain films were shot in the circus.
 
 So how do the artists pass their time when they are not performing or practising? “Whenever we are not performing, we go sightseeing, shopping, watch movies,” stated foot juggler Chetu Ch who had come with her circus artist father from China and settled in India.
 
 Do they miss their homes and family? “In the era of smartphones and internet, we can keep in touch with our family through video calling or Skype. Also, every few months, we can go home and visit our families,” said roller acrobat Sushila Magar from Nepal.
 
 Most of them joined the circus out of thier own interest to escape schooling or poverty, informed manager PV Jayaprakash. Speaking about the problems that plague modern circus industry, he said, “Wish there was more support from the government, at least by providing us ground in cities where we can set up tents. Though in some states like Tamil Nadu and Gujarat we get municipal or government-owned grounds at Rs 100-Rs 250 per day, in places like Vizag, we have to shell out Rs 20,000 per day for setting up shows. Kerala is the only state that gives pension to circus artists. Another problem is banning of child artists below 18 years to stay in circus. Children have the best flexibility for gymnastics and acrobatics, which is difficult to muster once they are grown up.”
 
 Come what may, none of them think of quitting the circus, as if they are wedded to the famous track from the movie ‘Mera Naam Joker’ - ‘Jeena yahan, marna yahan. Iske siwa jaana kahan’.
 
 Contrary to the derogatory manner in which circus life is usually portrayed in films and TV shows, in reality, we are happy to be in the circus. From adequate monthly salaries to free food, lodging, medicines, travelling — all expenses are borne by the company. We are safe here and there is no torture or coercion on the artists”
 
 
