HYDERABAD: Daily water supply in the city may soon become a reality. With the main requirement of a good monsoon this year. Municipal Administration minister   on Saturday announced in the Legislative Assembly that the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) was getting ready to provide daily water supply in the core city.

 He said the erstwhile 13 surrounding municipalities that were merged with the then Municipal Corporation of Hyderabad, would also get water supply from June this year. The HMWS&SB has completed construction of about 50 reservoirs to provide drinking water in the surrounding areas with financial assistance from Hudco.
 
 Speaking during the Question Hour and also responding to Khairtabad MLA Chintala   question on water supply, the minister said that on pilot basis, the HMWS&SB began daily water supply in 155 slums for the past one month.If the monsoon is good this season, it would be extended to entire city, he said.
 
 Rama Rao said while 352 million gallons a day (MGD) of water was supplied last March, about 370 MGD is being supplied to the city now.He said works for construction of a 20 TMCft capacity reservoir at Shamirpet would soon begin.
 
 On the Godavari drinking water project, he said it begins at Murmur at Yellampally barrage and water is brought to the Ghanpur reservoir in Medchal district over a distance of 186 kilometres.Siddipet, Gajwel and some panchayats were also being given water supply through the project. Ramachandra Reddy said though the Godavari drinking water project began more than seven years ago, it is yet to be completed.He also objected to diversion of   to Siddipet and Gajwel areas. He said instead of depending on Krishna and Godavari, water from Singur and Manjeera can be better used for the city.
 
 Rama Rao said it was not correct to say the villages and panchayats, where Godavari drinking water scheme pipelines were laid, should not be given water. He also said TRS government improved water supply in the city in the past two and half years.
 
