GURUGRAM:   and   chief T L Satyaprakash was transferred out of Gurgaon on Saturday as an administrative reshuffle that had been anticipated for the last three months took effect.

 Hardeep Singh, the   administrator in Panchkula, was given charge Gurgaon’s new deputy commissioner, though the highlight of the exercise was the Haryana government’s declaration of intent quickly forming the Gurgaon Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA). 
 
 As it works on a draft bill to set up the GMDA, the government appointed a joint CEO and an additional CEO for the proposed agency on Saturday. They will pilot the initiative on the ground and work closely with senior IAS officer V Umashankar, the Khattar regime’s officer on special duty for GMDA. Amit Khatri, currently additional commissioner of MCG, was named additional CEO of GMDA. Ashok Kumar Garg, Haryana Civil Service officer, was appointed joint CEO. Umashankar, a 1993-batch IAS officer, has also been given charge of the MCG, as its commissioner.
 
 Officials said the reshuffle had been made to speed up the formation of GMDA which, according to sources, could be created by March-end. Heading the GMDA vertical will be the CM himself, as its chairman. And though Satyaprakash will be in Chandigarh, he too will play an important role. That’s because the government has decided to put GMDA under the town and country planning department. Khattar holds that portfolio himself and Satyaprakash was on Saturday named director and special secretary of the department.
 
 The next step would be to appoint a full-time CEO who, according to the draft bill, should be an officer of the rank of a principal secretary or above. However, the decision to hand Umashankar reins of the MCG has raised eyebrows because of his seniority. Satyaprakash is a 2002-batch IAS officer and Umashankar is 11 years his senior. “It is strange that such a senior officer has been posted as MCG commissioner. Usually, a junior officer or one from the same batch as the predecessor is appointed,” said a senior district official. 
 
 Satyaprakash was posted in Gurgaon in November 2014 and was recognised by residents’ groups and RWAs as an honest officer who worked towards solving complex administrative problems the Millennium City faces. The highlight of his tenure was the formation of the Allottee Grievance Redressal Forum that got homebuyers, real estate companies and the government to sit across the table. 
 
 At the other end was the embarrassment of Gurujam, the 20-hour gridlock of July 28 and 29 last year triggered by showers and waterlogging and administrative lapses. Satyaprakash had apologised to the people of Gurgaon after that and promised a roadmap to permanently rid the city of its chronic infrastructural problems. That is now a job for his successor.
 
 
