NEW DELHI: Nearly three months after it was shut down due to  , cheerful ‘welcome back’ banners greeted   to the National Zoological Park on Wednesday, with children in particular delighted to be back with the animals again.

 “We saw the news clip about the   and decided to visit it on the first day of its reopening,” said  , who was there with his daughter. Like the Tyagis, well insulated against the cold in jackets and caps, the visitors enlivened the air with their chatter as they carefully avoided the lime powder and disinfectants still being used near the cages. Some zoo workers who sported gloves and masks were the only hint to why the park had temporarily shut.
 
 Many unaware visitors found out how lucky they were when told at that the gates that the zoo had barred visitors for a lengthy period. Monu Thakur, a Nainital resident on a visit to Delhi, who brought his family in the morning, said, “We found out from the people at the ticket counter that the zoo was allowing visitors in only from today. It would have been disappointing if we had found it closed because I wanted to show my children around.” 
 
 Ashok Nigam, a government employee, travelled from Chanakyapuri on the insistence of his children. “They have never come here, so after hearing that the zoo was reopening, we decided to come in the morning. We thought that there wouldn’t be many people around, but the queue at the ticket counter was pretty long and filled with excited people,” said Nigam.
 
 According to the zoo, 6,020 visitors walked past the gates on Wednesday. And with the return of visitors, it was back to business for the vendors. “Our business had been hit in the past few months. The zoo closure and then the demonetisation were a double blow,” said Pradeep, a bhelpuri seller.
 
 The zoo authorities too heaved a sigh of relief. Around 10,000 people visit the facility every day, with over 15,000 congregating on weekends. Closure during the holiday season, particularly December, had financial implications. “We were losing Rs 1.5-2 lakh daily,” said Riyaz Khan, zoo curator. 
 
 Though no birds have died in the zoo since November 29, precautionary steps would continue to be in place for a couple of months more. A path adjacent to the water birds enclosure has been closed to visitors.
 
 
