INDORE: At a time of uncertainty, when their entire set of office-bearers may have to vacate their chair, and to make matters worse, they do not even have access to their share of funds and grants from the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( ) unless they implement the  , at least a couple of state associations are not shying away from their 'grand plans.'
 
 In a highly ambitious project, the   (GCA) is aiming to build the biggest stadium in the world in terms of seating capacity, at Ahmedabad. The Sardar Patel Stadium in Motera, when it is ready after a complete makeover, will be able to accommodate as many as 100,024 or 1 lakh 24 spectators.
  
 Earlier this month, the GCA announced that it was handing over the contract of re-building the stadium from scratch to Larsen & Turbo (L&T). The arena is supposed to be a dream project of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a former chief minister of Gujarat, and GCA president Amit Shah, who's also the BJP president.
  
 "The new stadium will be complete after a couple of years. The cost of building it will be around 800 crores," a GCA official told TOI on Wednesday. Amit Shah's son Jay was incidentally the chairman of the BCCI's infrastructure and subsidy committee, which has been rendered ineffective after the Supreme Court's order to restructure the Board.
  
 "We'll raise loans from the market, apart from taking help from the BCCI," said a GCA official, when quizzed on how the GCA plans to raise funds for the renovated stadium. A GCA official claimed that Shah still has some time left to serve in the association even after the Lodha clause of tenure (maximum of nine years) are applied, which provides some hope and relief to the association. The GCA, like many state associations, is also banking its hop on filing a review petition against the reforms in the SC on January 19, when the apex court is scheduled to appoint a new set of administrators for the BCCI.
  
 Meanwhile, the   (MPCA) is planning to build a second cricket stadium in the state, after the Holkar Stadium in Indore, where it can host international games. This stadium, which will take around five-six years to build, will come up at Gwalior, which used to host international fixtures at the Captain Roop Singh Stadium earlier.
 
 It will boast of a capacity of around 55,000, and should not cost more than Rs 120 crore to build. "We've already allocated Rs 35 crores from our funds for this project," said an MPCA official, while revealing that the association has around Rs 120 crores in its coffers at present.
  
 The   (PCA) too has begun work to build a massive cricket stadium near Chandigarh, which will see international matches shift there from Mohali.
 
