RANCHI: Often dubbed as  's replacement in the Indian Test batting line-up during his initial days,   has carved his own niche with a bucketful of runs.

 With India in a spot of bother at 3406 during their first innings reply to Australia's 451, Pujara's mammoth 199-run seventh wicket partnership with   propelled the hosts to declare at 6009. The Saurashtra batsman in the process notching up his third double ton and second against Australia which brought him the coveted man-of-the-match trophy for the third Test match here.
 
 "Probably this is one my best double hundreds," Pujara said later, "It was a tough innings because as a batsman I wasn't having a good time. Initially it was difficult especially the first session on Day Three. It was difficult but   was batting well and flawlessly. I was enjoying his innings and obviously once when he got out I took more responsibility. As the innings progressed it got easier but this double hundred means a lot to me."
 
 En route his 202, the Saurashtra batsman faced 525 balls -the most faced by an Indian batsman in a single Test innings. "Once I was set my confidence was back and I had the concentration. (In the) Last match I got 92 and that was crucial. There were few things which I had worked on and it was coming along nicely. My game-plan was working out," Pujara was quoted as saying.
 
 Talking about his partnership with Wriddhiman Saha who scored his third Test ton, Pujara had nothing but praise for the Bengal wicket-keeper batsman. "The Bengaluru win meant a lot to us. I have played long innings in domestic cricket and had to play a patient innings here. I restricted myself but Saha batted beautifully. It was a crucial knock and I thank him for batting brilliantly. Whenever the team has been in trouble he has always put his hand up," he stated.
 
 Elaborating on their equation, Pujara said, "We needed a big partnership. We targeted small things like looking out for good spells from the bowlers and rotating the strike. We both ran well and I told him to play his natural game because I knew if he did that runs would come."
 
 On a lighter note, he spoke about their off-field bonding. "We both are quiet individuals but I challenge him that he won't be able to beat me in the Fifa (video) game, but ultimately we have a good competition."
 
