MUMBAI: The incessant rain that carried over from Tuesday to Wednesday served as a flashback to the deluge of August 29-30, prompting office-goers to skip office, work from home or leave office early. Wednesday brought a breather to scores of Mumbaikars who did choose to head to work. Schools and colleges were shut in any case. Traffic was sparse and train seats were available during peak hour. 

 Approximately 30% of 7,600 employees at   did arrive in the morning but began leaving as the downpour continued. By evening, barely a fourth were left, as the general administration department “had no option but to sanction their leaves later”.
 
 The lone employee manning Mantralaya’s IT department said it was a breeze travelling from Thane. “I live in Ghodbunder Road and commuting during peak hour around 8.30-8.45am is so exhausting. Today, though, I was able to find a seat at once.”
 
 Bombay high court chief justice Manjula Chellur permitted advocates to leave court and assured that none of their cases would be harmed if they did not show up. The CJ was responding to whether her court would continue hearing matters after the recess due to the rains and also the (fake) “cyclone warning”. “Go home. I don’t want anyone to be stuck,” she said.
 
 The usually bustling high court saw a low attendance of advocates and litigants. Bar associations also reached out to its members. Advocates Association of Western India president Rajiv Chavan circulated a message saying the registrar general had informed him that while the high court has not declared a holiday, “due to the situation on account of the heavy rains, no damage will be caused to matters today.’’ 
 
 In the sessions court, the bail hearing of cops allegedly involved in the death of Byculla jail inmate Manjula Shetye was adjourned as the defence lawyer failed to arrive owing to the rain. The court said that this was the last chance given to the lawyer for seeking an adjournment.
 
 Meanwhile, round the clock service providers were kept on their toes. Bread was in short supply in parts of the city. Distributors said attendance at bakeries was affected but Khodadad Irani, who owns a major bread brand, said, “Only big 800gm loaves were not available since these are mainly bought by sandwich vendors and schools and college canteens. And these were closed owing to rain so we focussed on providing small 400gm loaves for households.”
 
 In another parallel with August 29-30, garbage clearance in parts of K-West Ward was hampered. Several trash collectors live in Madh Island and could not get the ferry to Versova. “Their absence was particularly felt today since tomorrow is Navratri. On August 30 also, waste lay unattended and that was Ganeshotsav,” said Shalmali Tambe who lives in Lokhandwala Complex.
 
 Outdoor shoots were cancelled in Goregaon Film City. At the Churchgate office of All India Radio, announcers and engineers who came in Tuesday night had to work extra time as Wednesday’s morning shift relievers did not reach in time. A programme executive said, “There is no option since transmission is live so they managed the entire next shift till 1pm. The relievers arrived and the night workers went home.”
 
 At Godrej’s Vikhroli office, the telephone operator who was stuck at Mulund station all night on August 29-30 bravely refused to leave early on Wednesday despite her fear. “Life goes on. That night I was lucky to find food and shelter at a Jain camp. Today, trains are plying, so why worry,” she said.
 
 (With inputs from Rosy Sequeira, Sujit Mahamulkar and Rebecca Samervel)
 
 
