CHENNAI: Railways have started to introduce   (LHB) coaches with superior riding comfort and safety on more trains, but passengers are not happy about the  .

 Since the design is based on a German manufacturer, the toilet module is not suitable for water-intensive usage. 
 
 Sources said that railways are flooded with complaints from people about water stagnation and stink in toilets in these new coaches.   (ICF), which has stepped up production of new  , has also received feedback during its customers’ meet about flaws in toilets.
 
 Toilets have always remained a sore area for railways. In spite of efforts to tweak the interior design, the officials are not able to maintain them to the satisfaction of travellers. 
 
 A few of the drawbacks pointed out by users include less room, water stagnation near the door and flooding of the commode. 
 
 The railways’ move to introduce controlled-discharge toilets, which empty the tank after train picks up a particular speed, and bio-toilets to minimise dumping of toilet waste on tracks, seems to have become counter-productive. While old LHB coaches have controlled discharge toilets, all new coaches have been fitted with bio-toilets.
 
 S Gunasekaran, who had travelled on trains that use LHB rakes, said, “I have seen people refusing to use toilets on long distance trains as they get clogged soon after a few passengers use them. The design of the commode is such that fecal matter is visible when it gets clogged.”
 
 A senior railway officer said, “The toilet in an LHB coach has a good design and better amenities when compared to the one with conventional coaches made by ICF. They are also fitted with controlled discharge units and bio-toilets. But, people misuse the toilets, which make them unusable unless cleaned by an on-board housekeeping staff.”
 
 He also said, “On-board housekeeping (OBH), which is being introduced in most of the trains, could solve some of the problems. The staff has been given a schedule of twice a day to clean the toilet and spray disinfectant. Mats are also being installed on the floor of the toilet to prevent water stagnation near the door.”
 
  coaches are used on Chennai-Bengaluru, Chennai-Coimbatore Shatabdi trains, Chennai-Mangalore Express and Cholan Express.
 
 
