KOLKATA: A family from Madhya Pradesh’s Rewa has been trying to take their son home from Calcutta Pavlov Hospital for the last 13 days, but the hospital has consistently refused saying they requ-ired a court order to release the patient.

 Doctors said that   Kumar   alias Manoj (22) is undergoing treatment through medication and counselling and he does not need hospitalization any longer.
 
 Vikas was brought to Calcutta Pavlov Hospital by the New Town police in May. According to his father Ram Balak Yadav, Vikas went missing from their home in   village three years ago. All attempts to trace him failed and the family had given up hope when the local police station told them that Vikas had been traced to Calcutta Pavlov Hospital. 
 
 “I was in Bhopal searching for my son in factories where youths from our village normally work. I came back home disappointed when police visited our home with the great news,” Yadav told TOI.
 
 According to doctors at the hospital, during the course of his treatment, Vikas could recollect his address and names of his parents. Cops verified the details and reached out to his family. Yadav organized funds to travel to Kolkata and reached the hospital on July 18 with his younger son Prakash. Even though Vikas recognized his father and brother, the hospital refused to release him since they needed a reverse order from the court.
 
 “We want the patient to reunite with his family at the earliest. But since he was admitted via court order, we need a reverse order from the court to discharge him,” said Dr  .
 
 The family, which has visited the Barasat court thrice, alleged that each time they had been asked to come back with a different document. “We have even paid Rs 2,600 to the lawyers to get two affidavits. But the hospital said the affidavits are not enough,” said Prakash.
 
 The father-son duo has been sleeping in the balcony of the hospital’s administration building as they cannot afford a hotel. Volunteers of Anjali   Rights Organisation came across the family on Wednesday and has promised help.
 
 “There is nothing like a reverse court order in the Mental Health Act. Such manufactured rules are a harassment to patients’ families and lead to perpetual overcrowding in hospitals,” said metal health activist Ratnaboli Ray.
 
