MANGALURU: The coastal city was on edge again on Friday, with the death of an RSS worker capping the tension over the stabbing of a Muslim student by three youths and a threat on Facebook against a  . The administration has extended prohibitory orders across  .

 The RSS worker, 28-year-old Sharath Madivala, operated a laundry service at BC Road. He was stabbed by assailants as he was about to leave for home on July 4. Hospital sources said he died late Friday night.   plan to carry out a funeral procession to Bantwal on Saturday and several Sangh Parivar leaders are expected to attend the last rites.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 On Friday, BJP MPs Shobha Karandlaje and Nalin Kumar Kateel led 800 BJP workers in a protest, defying prohibitory orders in place in the city since the attack on Madivala. Dakshina Kannada SP CH Sudheer Kumar Reddy said the protesters, including the MPs, were arrested and booked for violating Section 144 of the CrPC. Six police teams, including two teams of the crime branch, have been tasked with tracing Madivala's attackers, he said. Saffron outfits were also outraged by a post on social media, threatening RSS leader Kalladka Prabhakar Bhat, who was in the eye of a storm after a minister was heard directing police to arrest him.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Even as police was tackling the protests, an engineering student was stabbed allegedly by three people at Adyar Padavu in the evening.It emerged that the victim was a Muslim, adding to the tension prevailing in the city.Sajid, 23, from Malappuram in Kerala, was riding a bike with friend Naufal to Bittupade when the three youths, also on a bike, stopped them and asked if they could borrow petrol. When Sajid and Naufal agreed and got off the bike, they were attacked with sharp weapons. Sajid was admitted to hospital with severe injuries on his hand and in the stomach.
 
 DCP Hanumantharaya said the two incidents were unrelated and drug-peddlers may have been involved in the second attack. Following the incidents, prohibitory orders have been extended to prevent any untoward incident.
 
 CM Siddaramaiah, who was in Mangaluru to address a Congress convention, warned of stringent action against people who disrupt communal harmony. “Some anti-social elements are bent on trying to disturb peace. We will see that no such organisation takes the law into their hands. I have asked the police to tackle the situation with an iron hand,“ he said.
 
