GHAZIABAD: Four persons were arrested by   police on Tuesday for the   of a scrap dealer’s son, Farmaan (25), who had been stabbed to death on the terrace of a market complex building on the night of October 1. The four men, who are in their early twenties, had allegedly killed Farmaan over an old case of enmity pertaining to a mobile phone  .

 Farmaan had been found dead, with his throat slit, on the terrace of Ramanuj Dayal Market on Ramte Ram Road late on Sunday night. The assailants had also stabbed Farmaan nearly a dozen times all over his body. Police have recovered two knives that had been used to kill Farmaan from a drain near the market complex at the behest of the arrested men.
 
 Ghaziabad police have identified the arrested men as Shoaib, Rashid, Talib and Nadeem. Shoaib’s younger brother, Amjad, and his father, Yaseen, were also named as accused, apart from these four persons, in an FIR registered in Kotwali police station on October 2. Yaseen, who is accused of conspiring in the murder plot, is absconding along with Amjad. All six men belong to Islam Nagar where Farmaan also lived with his family.
 
 “Farmaan had left home along with Rashid on the evening of October 1. They had gone to visit a fair. Police called late at night informing me about Farmaan’s murder. Farmaan had been assisting me in my scrap dealing business for the past few years,” Farmaan’s father, Rahees (53), told TOI.
 
 According to police, the murder had been plotted by Shoaib who had an old enmity with Farmaan’s family. In April, Shoaib had thrashed Farmaan’s brother, accusing him of mobile theft. An FIR had been registered against Shoaib and Amjad following the incident in which Farmaan was the prime eyewitness. Shoaib and Amjad have been charge-sheeted in the case.
 
 Police investigations have revealed that Farmaan was taken by Rashid to the Dussehra fair in the Ram Leela ground of Ghanta Ghar area. The duo was joined by other friends at the fair from where Farmaan was taken to the isolated terrace of the market complex under some pretext.
 
 “Since Shoaib had a dispute with Farmaan, he sent Rashid to fetch him. Shoaib had earlier tried to give shape to his plan on Dussehra night but was unsuccessful. He later roped in four other friends to assist him. The men had enjoyed fun rides at fair before the murder. Farmaan didn’t suspect anything foul,” said DSP Manisha Singh.
 
 
