Times News Network

 Ludhiana: Central Jail, Tajpur Road, is in the centre of a row again. Jail’s medical officer has accused a group of inmates of attacking him with sharp-edged weapons on the incitement of jail superintendent on Tuesday afternoon. He suffered cuts on his forehead, hands and stomach. 
 
 Dr Sawarndeep Singh, who joined around three months ago, alleged that at 12.45pm on Tuesday when he was inside the jail hospital, a group of armed inmates came and attacked him. He said all those present in the room, including his subordinates, did not help him. When he raised the alarm, jail officials came and rescued him. He was taken to civil hospital, from where he was discharged after treatment.
 
 In his complaint to police commissioner RN Dhoke, Dr Singh said the jail inmates tried to kill him with a knife and other sharp-edged weapons on the provocation of the superintendent. Seeking protection, Dr Singh told the commissioner that the reason was that he refused to give them narcotics as asked by superintendent SP Khanna, who allowed weapons inside the jail.
 
 He said ever since he joined, inmates have been against him as he refused to give them narcotics. He said he had written to the superintendent about the problem, but he took no action.
 
 However, the jail superintendent rubbished the allegations. Following the incident, Khanna gave a complaint against Baljeet Singh, an undertrial in an attempt to murder case and his accomplices who are yet to be identified, and also marked an inquiry to deputy superintendent Kamalpreet Singh.
 
 Accused Baljeet also gave a complaint to the jail superintendent against the doctor and four other inmates for thrashing him. He alleged that he was a TB patient and admitted to the jail hospital. On Sunday night, four inmates, on the provocation of the doctor, beat him up, he said.
 
 Khanna said, “I will not comment on the allegations of the doctor against me. An inquiry has been marked and report will be submitted by Wednesday. A complaint has been submitted to the division 7 police against Baljeet and his accomplices for attacking the doctor.”
 
 Inspector general of police (prisons) R K Arora said, “An inquiry has been marked to DIG (Patiala Circle) Lakhminder Singh Jakhar. He will visit the Ludhiana Central Jail and record statements of the jail superintendent and the medical officer. Jakhar will submit the inquiry report the same day.”
 
 Controversial record 
 
 August 4: Inmate Bau Gill uploaded 10 pictures on his Facebook profile with a message that he will be out soon. The selfies captured the bars and group pictures had barrack in the background. In one of the photos, he was seen inside the jail premises with an axe in his hand
 
 July 1: Drug peddler Sunny Aulakh uploaded his pictures and status on his Facebook page from inside the jail 
 
 June 26: Jail officials recovered five mobiles and SIMs from inmates.
 
 June 2: Police recovered 16 mobiles from the barracks
 
 May 12: Officials recovered a mobile phone from inmate Balwinder Singh
 
 May 10: Two murder convicts, Gurpreet Singh and Raghuwinder Singh, and an undertrial in a murder case, Goverdhan, were booked after Gurpreet uploaded their selfies on Facebook profile. The police failed to recover the mobile
 
 
