LUCKNOW: He is all in one, a PhD scholar, question paper setter, examinee and an evaluator of his own answer copies.

 Devesh Ojha, a student of Institute of Engineering and Technology (IET), had enrolled for   in 2015. At the time of entering marks of pre-PhD courses into the database, authorities found that Ojha had taught the same subject as that in his pre-PhD, set the question paper for it, appeared in its examination and evaluated his own answer copies.
 
 IET, affiliated to AKTU, has cancelled Ojha’s enrolment and debarred him from the institute after a three-member committee found him guilty.
 
 “Deputy examination controller Girish Chandra, while uploading marks, became suspicious when the name of the evaluator, subject teacher and examinee was found to be the same,” said IET director AS Vidyarthi.
 
 When the matter was reported to the controller of examination BN Mishra, he sought details from all departments about the candidates registered for PhD.
 
 It was found that Ojha had set the paper for one subject of his pre-PhD course, taken that exam and also evaluated it. He was nominated as the examiner by the board of studies of civil engineering.
 
 A three-member committee with Prof Arti Dwivedi, Dean UG Sanjay Srivastava and Dean PG Shailendra Srivastava was formed to probe the matter. The committee submitted its report after going through the information and documents by which Ojha was found guilty of being involved in indiscipline and going against academic ethics. 
 
 According to university rules, all students registered in PhD are required to pass pre-PhD courses approved by the   of the university. The candidates are informed verbally and through a notice that they will not opt for a subject in pre-PhD in which they are involved in any type of teaching, tutorial, or practical work. 
 
 Despite this, Ojha opted for the same subject.
 
 Vidyarthi said that a show-cause notice had been issued to the member of the board of studies for appointing Ojha as the examiner for the subject.
 
 The vice-chancellor of Dr   said that the scholar’s enrolment will be cancelled and he will be debarred from the institute.
 
 
