LUCKNOW: In its reply to queries from the divisional commissioner probing the  ,   had said that the evacuation process from the Trauma Centre to other departments was smooth. However, TOI found that the university does not have any emergency evacuation plan under the National Building Code of India for any of its departments. The hospital, at any given time, caters to a population of at least 4,000 patients given its bed strength. Besides, there are attendants, doctors, medical staff and students on the premises. 

 The university does not even have a fire safety officer to oversee the fire-fighting system and protocol to be followed. As of now, electrical and mechanical engineers have been given additional charge of maintaining a fire-fighting alarm system and equipment. As a result, the university either depends on the fire department or handles the situation on its own. 
 
 There are minimal emergency exits with the Trauma Centre itself having emergency exits only on the first floor of its four floors. Because of this, shifting patients took long. 
 
 Citing the National Building Code of India, fire services director (Lucknow) PK Rao, said, “All buildings with height above 15 metres have to have an emergency evacuation plan in case of fire, earthquake or even terrorist activities in today’s time. In KGMU’s case, it is a must as patients are involved.”
 
 Experts say in case of a fire, staff should be well-versed of assembly and destination points, specific roles on stairwell, elevators and exits. The evacuation plan, with various legends, should show emergency exits, the location of fire extinguishers, hydrants and other equipment. It should be displayed in all departments for self help by attendants and patients. 
 
 KGMU chief medical superintendent Prof SN Sankhwar said, “The divisional commissioner has asked us to make an emergency evacuation strategy. We are working on it. As for the fire safety officer, it is being discussed with the chief fire officer and is on our priority list.”
 
 
