Since colonial times, personal law in India has owned a dual legacy. On the one hand, it was the government's way of promoting religious freedom and toleration. Permitting religious communities to observe their own laws of marriage, inheritance, adoption, or divorce was the British Raj's way of maintaining social stability, thwarting rebellion, and even earning the favour of a religious community. On the other hand, personal law imposed a false uniformity by presuming that all members of a religion adhered to the same laws.

 Personal law was like a straitjacket, which, in the name of religious toleration, actually forced members of a religion to conform to laws they may never have observed. The state's recognition of personal laws has also legitimated discriminatory treatment of women in the name of religion. How is it that a policy designed to recognise difference could also be an instrument of coercion, whether as an unwanted intrusion into family practices or as a rubber stamp for practices that hurt or disempower women?
 
 Against this dual legacy, Christian personal laws carry a unique history, partly because the religion presents no clear, textual basis for a personal law. Under British rule, Christian communities of India had tended to take on the laws of their nationalities, with Armenians, Syrians, Portuguese, Anglo-Indians, the French, and the English observing their own laws. Indians who became Christian, however, posed a unique dilemma -what law would they follow? To which nationality did they belong?
 
 For a time, colonial courts managed to cope with varied and ambiguous practices of Christian converts. In the famous succession case, Abraham v. Abraham (1863), a wealthy Tamil Dalit liquor vendor died without a will and the judiciary had to decide whether his brother or his Anglo-Indian wife should succeed him and inherit his wealth. It ruled that because the Christian religion taught no personal law, the court had to examine the family's cultural habits. If these habits were predominantly " ," then the laws of undivided families should be applied and the brother and sons of the deceased husband ( ) should inherit the family estate, even though they were Christian. But if the family's customs were mostly English, then the wife should succeed the husband as head of the household. After several appeals, the wife won.
 
 Such painstaking examination of customs by the courts, however, would not last very long. With the passing of the Indian Succession Act (1865, revised in 1925) or the Divorce Act (1869), a more uniformly English law was applied to Christian families. Catholics, however, continued to advocate for their rights to observe canon law and Syrian Christians their own laws.
 
 
 
 
 Since Independence, court cases involving Christian personal law have tended to concern the rights of women to inherit property. The famous case of Mary Roy (1986) upheld the rights of Syrian Christian women to inherit ancestral property equally with their male siblings. The battle waged against traditional patriarchal norms within the Church has once again compelled society to weigh `religious rights' against more egalitarian human rights. This enduring debate is not necessarily a contest between religion and secularism. It concerns the interpretation of sacred texts and traditions in light of the demands of justice and rapidly changing societal norms. Religious controversies also involve issues of power. `Religions' and `religious freedoms' can all too easily give rise to insular zones of autonomy. Here, voices of religious authority are exempt from scrutiny and are able to suppress dissent of any kind.
 
 Arriving at broad principles to which all religions are subject, is no simple task.The idea of a uniform civil code can raise the same dilemmas as multiple personal laws for different religions: does such uniformity ensure neutrality and fairness, or does it simply present a larger straitjacket, this time constricting all faith communities? In these days of Hindu nationalism, minorities fear that a uniform civil code would impose majoritarian civil norms (if in fact they exist).
 
 An alternative path, however, is to consider how members of diverse religious communities might share some stake in a uniform civil code and offer resources for considering its content and parameters. Can virtues extolled by all religions render a common framework for formulating laws of marriage, inheritance, divorce, etc.? For this possibility to be realised, the state would have to decolonise its approach to `religions.' The colonial approach was to treat religions as sectarian entities focused only on their private interests and in need of being `managed.' Might religions instead be appreciated as providing a vocabulary that speaks to the universal and facilitates much-needed transformations within the realm of personal law?
 
 (The writer is the Fletcher Jones Foundation Chair of the Social Sciences at Westmont College, California. His books include Race, Religion and Law in Colonial India)
 
