CHANDIGARH: A slew of far-reaching advisories for wildlife conservation were issued during the first meeting of   on Friday under the chairmanship of  , which included conversion of 3,199 acres of   into forest area under   and its consequent declaration as a community reserve.

 The board cleared a proposal for re-introduction of the gharial in Beas river, upstream of  , by releasing 17 specimens captive-bred at Chhatbir zoo.
 The jungles of Siswan dam are brimming with wild fauna and flora and authenticated by comprehensive surveys of Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun. Chhatbir's gharials have also come of size and age, and are ready for release upstream of Harike but the project got delayed in the past few years. The government is planning to release the gharials after monsoon (September-October), followed by more specimens over the next year to total a 100. Other specimens will be brought from captive-breeding centres in Uttar Pradesh. "The board is an advisory body and the state government will now take up these approvals for implementation and notification. Since the CM is the administrative head of the state government and he also heads the board, the approvals or advisories issued by the board today signify de facto decisions of the government," a senior officer said.
 
 The other strategic decision with regard to biodiversity conservation taken by the board was the creation of a conservation reserve along 185km of the Beas, starting from 52 head Talwara to Harike. "This will mean that commercial fishing will be brought to an end on the Beas stretch in Punjab. Not only will it conserve aquatic biodiversity of a pristine river, but the fish so preserved will enhance the prey base of Indus dolphin and gharials. Fishermen would also poach at Harike by misusing fishing rights; this will now be banned in Beas conservation reserve," the officer said.
 
 Apart from CM, the board meeting was steered by special chief secretary (forest and wildlife preservation) Himmat Singh, chief wildlife warden Dhirendra K Singh, media adviser to CM, Raveen Thukral, and deputy principal secretary to CM, Amrit Kaur Gill. Newly inducted, non-government board members also participated in the meeting.
 A similar effort, though smaller in scale, has been advised by the board for Ravi and Satluj rivers. This comprises the creation of a Ranjit Sagar Dam Wildlife Sanctuary to promote eco-tourism, such as recreational angling and river cruise, for revenue generation. It was decided to declare Ropar wetland as a wildlife sanctuary/conservation reserve, a Punjab government spokesperson said in a media release.
 
 In another decision with wide-ranging implications, the board advised the government to do away with the need of seeking panchayat resolutions before issuing permits for hunting crop-damaging wild boars and neelgais. "The board decided to simplify the procedure for sanctioning 45-day permits for shooting crop-damaging animals. It was decided to put the permit process online and on WhatsApp to ensure ease of procedure for grant of permits. These permits for limited hunting are confined to privately owned land and are meant only for crop-damaging animals," the release said.
 
 Elaborating on this simplification, the officer said, "'Permits can be granted online in emergency cases; there will be a dedicated officer at the forest department headquarters to clear the permit. If not needed on emergency basis, the permit will be issued through the SDM/DFO without the need for a panchayat resolution. Earlier, hunting permits were granted only if the panchayat passed a resolution declaring crop damage and expressed the demand for hunting down wild animals. But, in areas rich in wildlife, the government may not grant hunting permits. The carcass of the animal shot is for local consumption," the officer clarified.
 
 Responding to apprehension of hunters taking permits would misuse it and shoot other species and enter restricted areas, the officer said if the policy was exploited, the government would respond to criticism and amend it to safeguard wildlife conservation.
 
