In a garden next to Kala Academy in  , is a striking bronze statue of a physician, writer, economist and political scientist, who also represented   in the European nation’s parliament from 1861 to 1869. Yet, despite achieving so much at a very young age, Goa’s very own Dr  , remains relatively unknown in his homeland.
 
 Born to Dr  , an eminent physician, and Deodata Furtado on May 31, 1829, at Colmorod,   in the Salcete taluka, Gomes completed his medical education at the Escola Medico–Cirurgica de Goa (Goa Medical College) in Panaji when he was just 21 and subsequently rose to the position of chief surgeon there. A polyglot, he not only mastered Konkani, Portuguese and French, but knew English, Italian, Spanish, Latin and Marathi, too. He was also a versatile writer and contributed in a big way towards a compilation titled ‘Konkani Grammar’, that was originally written by the English Jesuit priest,  .
 
 When he turned 32, Gomes was elected to Portugal’s parliament as a member of the Portuguese democratic party, ‘O Regenarador’. His liberal political views, coupled with his contribution to the field of economics led him to be regarded as ‘The Prince of Intellectuals’ in Europe. And although he was unabashedly critical of the Portugal government’s unjust policies in its colonies around the world, his stellar debating and oratory skills saw him get elected two more times to the country’s parliament. It is also believed that he was offered a ministerial berth during all his three terms, but refused because he knew it would clash with his independent views. 
 
 History researcher Prajal Sakhardande said Gomes’s biggest achievement was his fight for the rights of Goans on the floor of the parliament at Lisbon. “He was not a freedom fighter, but he wanted liberty for India. He was an intellectual par excellence, a thinker, economist, historian and linguist who made a mark at the international level at that time,” Sakhardande explained.
 
 Soon enough, the international arena recognized Gomes’s immense contribution to various fields and showered him with honours. The Society of Economists of Paris, for instance, appointed him as an associate member, a rare honour that was accorded to only four, reputed public figures. He was also made member of the Royal Asiatic Society of Bombay, the Society of Medical Sciences of Lisbon, the Society of Political Economy of Cadiz and the Royal Academy of Sciences of Lisbon, and was awarded a doctorate in social and political sciences by the Catholic University of Leuven in Belgium. His loyalty to the Portuguese empire and love for its language and culture led him to be knighted to the ‘Ordem Militar de Nosso Senhor Jesus Cristo’ (Military Order of Our Lord Jesus Christ) by the Portuguese government.
 
 The prolific man wrote six books in Portuguese and French besides contributing a large number of articles on politics, economy, law and ethics, history and literature to prominent journals. Published in 1862, his book in Portuguese focusing on the impact of the colonial policy on Goan agriculture and titled ‘A liberdade da terra e a economia rural da India Portugueza’ (The freedom of the land and the rural economy of Portuguese India), is considered to be his masterpiece. In it, Gomes suggested a scheme of economic and financial reforms, such as the establishment of credit societies, which would save the country from economic stagnation. He argued that the comunidades were no longer suited to the exigencies of the time and instead called for the liberation of the lands under their control and its replacement by individual ownership of the tenant. He also advocated the sale of all public lands as well as those that belonged to religious institutions.
 
 In 1866, Gomes published his famous historical novel ‘Os Brâmanes’ (The Brahmins), the first novel by a Goan, which focused on the practice of caste-based discrimination in India, particularly untouchability. “Impartial men, who are moved by justice and not by racialism, want India to be ruled by Indians,” he stated in the book. He also championed the cause of self-governance for Indians and slammed the European nations for not staying true to the Christian values of equality and fraternity.
 
 Unfortunately, Gomes’ illustrious life was cut short when he was just 40, after he contracted a serious ailment. And although his last wish was to spend his last days in Goa, he died on September 30, 1869 on board the S S Messalis, which had set sail for India just five days before. His body was ultimately consigned to the waters of the Mediterranean Sea.
 
 Apart from Gomes’s statue in Panaji, which installed by the Portuguese in 1931 to mark his birth centenary, the only remnants Goa has of him are a library named after him in Navelim, a road in Vasco, a bust at Margao’s comunidade building and a small bust on the Rosary High School in the village of his birth.
 
 
