NEW DELHI: The   on Tuesday shut the doors on medical colleges which had rushed to it in large numbers seeking to fill MBBS seats for this academic session alleging discrepancies in the MCI’s scrutiny of their infrastructure and faculty strength.

 After the SC provided relief to a few medical colleges to admit students to the 2017-18 academic year, a large number of others had moved court for similar relief. A bench of Chief Justice   and Justices Amitava Roy and A M Khanwilkar rejected a petition by  , which was among several colleges denied permission by the Centre to admit students despite approval by the court-appointed oversight committee headed by ex-CJI R M Lodha.
 
 The bench said Royal Medical Trust’s Kerala Medical College and Hospital was not entitled to letter of permission for the academic year 2017-18. “We direct that the order passed in the present writ petition shall be applicable hereafter for the academic session 2017-18 since the cut-off date for admissions to MBBS course for academic year 2017-18 is over and the academic session has commenced,” it said.
 
 “No petition shall be entertained from any institution, college, society, trust or any party for grant of letter of permission (to admit students to MBBS course) for the academic year 2017-18. We say so as the controversy for grant of permission for 2017-18 should come to an end and cannot become an event that defeats time,” the bench said.
 
 However, it ensured that denial of permission to admit students this year did not impede the studies of pupils admitted during previous years in these colleges. “Students who are continuing their studies on the basis of letter of permission granted for the academic year 2016-17 should be allowed to continue their studies in the college and they should be permitted to continue till completion of the course,” said  , who wrote the judgment for the bench.
 
 The SC said applications submitted for permission to admit students for the academic year 2017-18 would now be treated as applications for the academic year 2018-19. “Petitioners (medical colleges) shall keep the bank guarantee deposited with the   alive and the MCI shall not encash the same,” it said.
 
 “The MCI shall conduct fresh inspection as per the regulations within a period of two months. It shall apprise the petitioner institution with regard to the deficiencies and afford an opportunity to comply with the same and, thereafter, proceed to act as contemplated under the law. Inspection shall be carried out for the purpose of grant of permission for academic session 2018-19,” it added.
 
 
