MOHALI: Two days after Vice-President M   had said to not stress too much on English language at a Union ministry of culture event in New Delhi, he said on Friday that he did not mean to speak against the language but that one should give preference to one’s mother tongue.

 He said this at   Leadership Summit in   on Friday. “English is a language which provides opportunity. However, people should first learn their native language.”
 
 “In my experience, if you are not proficient in your mother tongue, you won’t be able to express better. You can pick other languages after you learn native language. I have no problem with English,” said Naidu.
 
 He iterated the episode of a conference where the leaders of different nations spoke in their native language despite being well-versed in English while stressing on the need to learn mother tongue,” he added.
 
 He wanted to convey that primarily one should have proficiency in their mother tongue and then learn other languages. “While talking with your parents and grandparents at home, use mother tongue.
 
 At the event in Delhi, he had said that people should take pride in speaking their mother tongue and reserve English for interacting with foreigners.
 
 However, he repeated himself at the ISB summit and stated, "We now use mommy to address mother. But, ' ' or ' ' in native tongue comes from the heart, while mommy is just spoken from lips. So, Hindi, Sanskrit, Urdu or Telugu we should always speak in our mother tongue."
 
 Naidu started his address in Hindi. He said, “We must act today to transform future and in order to achieve this, we must learn from our rich ancient past and ancestors as it will guide our actions today.”
 
 Citing several quotes of historical leaders, philosophers and ‘vedas’, he said, “We must take pride in our heritage, culture and traditions and not be averse to it by adopting western culture. We must work hard together to create an ideal country with an aim to work on theme of unravelling the future of India.”
 
