The celebrity nights are the biggest attractions at any DU fest, and they attract more than just the students on campus. Many outsiders – students from other universities, non-students – try to gain entry into the fest to watch them perform. Since the entry for any DU fest in most of the colleges is open and free for DU students, the outsiders resort to various jugaads. Entering a girls' college is always difficult, so the outsiders try to sneak in by participating in competitions and informal events before the final event. Borrowing someone's’ ID card, or taking the help of the 'connections' in the students' union of the college are some more jugaad options. And when none of this works, DUSU wale bhaiya comes to the rescue. 

  
  (BCCL)
 
 
 Student union members are expected to ensure that anyone who is not from DU should not be entering the college. But if you have friends or connections in the students’ union, you can get entry without much hassle. "We also give passes to our committee members, so if nobody from your family is planning to turn up for the event, then the passes are passed on to others," says  , a third year student from  . 
 
 But the student union members have to be responsible for the people they bring in, too. Prabal Khatri, cultural secretary of Sri Venkateswara (Venky) College, adds, "When someone from the union is responsible for getting someone into the college, then we make sure that they do not create any ruckus."
 
 "Bribing the guards and bouncers at the gate does not help, but if you know someone from the union, then that really helps," adds Prabal.
 
 
 Not just during fests, members of political parties try to enter other colleges during other events too, such as the visit of a movie's star cast. A student union member from Venky explains, "It happens every year when members of the political parties fight to gain entry. Jo bade neta bhai hote hain, unhe toh mil hi jaati hai entry. Chalo unhe de bhi dein, par woh apne saath apne bachche bhi laate hain. But one good thing with these known student union leaders is that they are concerned about their reputation, so they don’t create any ruckus. Par jo chhote chhote neta hote hain, woh bhi log le aate hain aur kehte hain ki inhe bhi aane do." A member of the students’ union of the Hans Raj (HRC) College adds, "Woh toh aayenge hi, unhe kya keh sakte ho."
 
  
  Not a DU student, but want to attend a DU fest? There are various jugaads people resort to
 
 
  
 While some may resort to getting entries with fake identity cards or with the help of a DUSU leader, others find smarter ways. "We organize informal events which take place before the star night. These are small events like treasure hunts, screening of a movie, which do not require any passes. So, the non-DU students mostly try to take part in these activities. They do not need an ID card or any pass to enter the fest during such time," says Garima Tandon. 
 
  Dixita Gupta, a second year student from  , adds, "We are given excuses like, 'Mera friend aa raha hai, uske paas pass hai', 'Main identity card ghar pe bhool gaya', because we do not let anyone enter who does not have the pass or a valid identity card. Then, non-DU students participate in informal events or take part in workshops to get entry. Since these events happen before the main event, the entry for these events start three-four hours before the main show. So, anyone who is not from DU prefers this way of entering the college."
 
 
 There are some who do not mind climbing up the college’s wall to attend the fest. "Kuch log deewar chadh jaate hain, unhe fark nahi padta ki gir gaye toh kya hoga? For them, attending the star night is more important," says Prabal. 
 
  Rohit Phogat, the president of Hans Raj adds, "Jinko kahin se koi entry nahi milti woh deewar chadhke hi aate hain. Vo pedh pe chadhke baith jaate hain, ya buildings ki balcony pe. Fir unhe bhagane ke liye security hi kaam aati hai. Aur ye log vo hote hain jo college se pata nahi kitne saal pehle graduate ho chuke hote hain."
 
  
  A student neta being escorted out when the team of Rustom visited Hans Raj college (BCCL)
 
 
 Though there are some who manage to get passes or sneak in with the help of the 'sources', there are some who try to get in with the identity cards of their friends. "What I have seen is that students from our college try to help their friends. Since it is almost difficult to check the ID card of every student, students pass on their ID cards to their friends from different universities," says Rohit. 
 
 
 People who put up stalls at the fest are given extra passes, and there are always some people who use that excuse to gain entry at the last moment. "They will say, ‘Hum toh stall walon ke saath hain. Humein toh aane do.’ These are generally those who are evidently not students," says Garima Tandon. 
 
  Namrata Sehrawat, cultural secretary of  , adds, "DU students have this habit of bragging about everything. 'Main president ko jaanta hoon, meri staff mein chalti hai', and when none of this works, then they can do anything. They will either climb up the wall or say ki 'Main stall wala hoon'. But we know that these are all excuses."
 
 
 
