Bengaluru: Canadian   Plan Investment Board (CPPIB) and The   Mills, led by Atul Ruia, has signed an agreement to put money in an investment platform that will develop, own and operate retail malls across India.

 CPPIB will initially invest about $111 million to own 30% of the platform, Island Star Mall Developers Pvt Ltd (ISMDPL), with plans to put in a total of $245 million to own about 49% stake. Pre-money enterprise value of Island Star Mall is about $338 million.
 
 ISMDPL, a subsidiary of Phoenix Mills, owns the Phoenix Market City Mall in Whitefield in Bengaluru which was opened in 2011 and has a gross leasable area of 1 million sqft spread across 17 acres. The mall, located in the Whitefield residential area, boasts of retail stores such as Zara, Gap and Vero Moda among others.
 
 “This is a landmark transaction for Phoenix Mills and a first of its kind for India’s retail real estate industry. In CPPIB, we have found a like-minded strategic partner that brings significant experience and expertise in creating and managing assets across the globe, Ruia, joint managing director, of Phoenix Mills, said.
 
 TOI reported in November that the Canadian pension fund had emerged as a strong contender to strike a deal for buying select mall assets of Phoenix Mills. Phoenix, which owns and operates some of the country's largest integrated consumption centers, has a network of eight malls with six million sqft leased space across six cities.
 
 Shares of Phoenix Mills rose about 7% in morning trade on the BSE on Thursday, touching a high of Rs 438.10, before paring gains to trade at Rs 410 in afternoon trade.
 
 Pheonix, which heralded the transformation of Mumbai's textile mill lands into upscale real estate developments, beginning with Palladium and High Street Pheonix in Lower Parel, has more than 17.5 million sqft in retail, hospitality, commercial and residential assets. The company earned retail rental income of Rs 710 crores for the year ended March 2016.
 
 The funds invested will be used for buying and developing greenfield assets on new land banks as well as existing malls. Phoenix Mills will manage all development and operational assets in the platform.
 
 “We are delighted to partner with The Phoenix Mills to launch our first retail real estate venture in India where we will focus on acquiring or developing high-quality retail assets across India’s top cities,”  , managing director, head of real estate investments in Europe of CPPIB said.
 
 CPPIB's interest in Indian retail infrastructure comes at a time when global peers such as Blackstone Group, Dutch pension asset manager APG and GIC of Singapore have stepped up investment activity in the sector. It opened an India office one year ago as part of a concerted push into the world's fastest growing major economy where it would buy stable income-yielding assets in real estate and infrastructure.
 
