AHMEDABAD: Gujarat high court sounded downcast when noting that it is difficult in this country to set the machinery in motion against a politician for his alleged crime. The HC asked, "Is an MLA so important a person that he can decline to pay toll tax at the toll booth which every citizen is otherwise duty bound to pay unless exempted in law?" 

 The case pertains to a scuffle at a toll booth in   district in   involving   MLA Govind Parmar and his son, Sursinh, over payment of toll. A toll plaza employee tried to register a complaint against them, but police did not respond. 
 
 On the other hand, Sursinh's complaint against toll plaza operators was promptly registered.
 
 Directing Prabhas   police to register an FIR against the politician and his son, and ordering CID (crime) to probe the case, Justice J B Pardiwala, however, expressed pessimism on the probable outcome of the case. 
 
 "I am not a soothsayer, but by passage of time and experience as a judge, I can predict certain things," said the judge. 
 
 "I know what next is going to happen in this case. No sooner the FIR will be registered pursuant to the directions issued by this court, then the next step will be to somehow win over the writ applicant or persuade him in all manner to compromise and then bring him before this Court and make him give his consent for quashing of the FIR," the judge said.
 
 The judge tore into the police department for their partisan approach and inaction. "The police appears to be stacked in favour of Mr Parmar (MLA) and his accomplices, probably, because Mr Parmar belongs to the ruling dispensation," the court said, and added, "The high-handedness of the police is to such an extent that I am unable to express the same in words." 
 
 The court reprimanded cops for inaction and for giving lame excuses in an inquiry despite there being grave allegations against Parmar and CCTV footage available. 
 
 "This is nothing, but dereliction of duty on the part of the police, which warrants immediate departmental action," the court order reads.
 
