MOHALI: Despite earnest promises, the Greater   Area Development Authority ( ) has so far failed to notify the `need-based changes' in houses and commercial buildings in various sectors of Mohali.
The policy draft was approved in-principle by former chief minister Parkash   Badal in 2016, but since then there has been no progress.
 
 GMADA additional chief administrator Sukhjit Pal Singh said, “We are ready with the draft, which will be soon sent to the   government. After the state approves the need-based changes policy , the norms may be notified. The delay was due to the election code of conduct.“
 
 “The Punjab government had given a nod to need-based changes in houses and commercial buildings as the move was aimed at giving relief to property owners and to curb haphazard construction. We had also called for the objections and suggestions from the residents. Now after making some changes, the draft will be sent for the approval only then it will be notified,“ he added.
 
 Sources in GMADA said that as per the decision the request for allowing changes in the basic provision of area pertaining to floorarea-ratio (FAR), height, basement and covering of balconies have been accepted but with riders that concerned allottees would get the map approved as per the   building rules after obtaining the structural stability certificate from an expert. The parties will have to deposit a requisite fee (which is yet to be decided) as per the additional FAR.The allottees opting for onetime payment will be given some discount, otherwise GMADA may also accept the payments in installments, said an officer.
 
 The residents will only be allowed need-based changes if the alterations do not threaten the structure of buildings and also will not disturb the residential area of the neighbours.
 
 For this the residents will also have to furnish an undertaking that heshe will be solely responsible for any loss to the neighbours due to any previous or future construction and will be liable to compensate the neighbours for it, said sources. Officer also cleared that no concrete construction will be allowed under need-based changes whereas soft structures like aluminum glazing or glass may be acceptable.
 
 However, the residents had demanded that independent houses should be allowed to construct second floor and the owners living on the ground floor of  , HIG, MIG, and super MIG houses should be allowed construct an extra room.The changes already made must be taken as it is where it is basis. Recently , GMADA has given an interim relief to the 784 flat owners of MIG-super housing society association by deferring action on the building byelaws violations.
 
