PUNE: A special emergency review team chaired by the tribal department head, tehsildar and district health officer would be constituted in case of a death in any of the 1,100 tribal ashram schools in the state in future, according to a new   ( ).

 The GR was issued in the wake of over 700 deaths reported at the schools after a PIL was filed highlighting this. The GR issued on December 28 also directs a special medical committee under the medical officer of the rural hospital, an NGO and social worker to probe any death as well as a special team under the district collector to give a detailed report within three months. 
 
 These suggestions were put forth following directions given by the Bombay high court to the state government after a PIL filed by Pune resident Ravindra Talpe highlighted the 700 deaths as well as poor infrastructure facilities at the schools. 
 
 Earlier on December 27, another GR was issued addressing the poor facilities of the ashram schools in Nandurbar district. The GRs are among the 19 issued in the last four years since the PIL was filed in 2013.
 
 The government has issued 13 orders and three surveys to check the cause of death of these children as well as appoint district-level committees to check on the infrastructure of these schools. 
 
 Petitioner Ravindra Talpe told TOI that even as the government is taking cognizance of the deaths and appointing committees, they would prefer that these committees carry out the necessary intervention. “It is time strong action is taken against violations,” Talpe said.
 
 Sitaram Joshi, of  , said, “Though there is speed in appointing committees by the government, there is no action taken and there are several incidences which take place in these schools”.
 
 According to the government in the affidavit, as many as 740 students from residential schools in tribal areas have died due to various health issues over the past 10 years. The PIL filed by Talpe alleged that there were 793 deaths due to snake bites, scorpion bites, fever and other minor illnesses, all this mainly due to ‘negligence of staff’ who did not ensure proper treatment in time. 
 
 There are 29 project offices in the state and nearly 1,100 ashram shalas, of which 547 are directly under the government and another 552 are government-aided private schools. Together, they have over four lakh students. There are 2.53 lakh students in aided ashram schools and 1.93 lakh in government-run ashram schools. 
 
 “The aim is to make these school operations accountable and transparent. The committee will check on all the facilities of the ashramshalas,” an official from the tribal development department said.
 
 
