SANVORDEM: The search and   operations launched by multiple agencies following the   of the footbridge at Sanvordem on Thursday, has resulted in the recovery of three bodies so far. While the body of Basavraj Malnavar, 30, a truck driver from Sanguem, was recovered late Thursday night by fire brigade personnel, navy divers fished out the body of 28-year-old Ajit Prakash Ekka, a native of Jharkhand, at around 2.15am on Friday. The third body recovered by the coastal security police on Friday was identified as that of Basaiyya alias Santosh Wandar, 26, a resident of Cacora, who had jumped into the river a short while before the footbridge collapsed.

 The large number people who had gathered on the mild steel footbridge to watch the fire brigade personnel rescue Wandar, came crashing down into the waters as the  , which was prohibited for use owing to its unsafe condition, crumbled under the weight of scores of onlookers. 
 
 The first day of the search and rescue operations launched by the fire and emergency services (F&ES), soon after the disaster struck, lasted until 3am on Friday, after the second body was recovered.
 
  Day two of the operations began at around 6.30am on Sunday. Coastal security police and the Indian Navy personnel assisted in the operations. 
 
 Helicopter sortie by the Indian Navy conducted an aerial search operation in the early hours of Friday. By afternoon, a team of the   (NDRF) comprising 10 trained divers joined the operations. A massive search operation by NDRF and coastal security police force went on for hours until Wandar’s body was recovered off the river bank at Mirabag. 
 
 The arrival of the NDRF jawans added to the strength of the search and rescue operations. Speaking to TOI upon the end of the search operations, inspector Mohammed Shakeel, who led the team of 40 jawans, said that the team went about methodically in a bid to trace the bodies. 
 
 “We have no clue about how many more bodies still need to be recovered. Bodies normally come afloat after 24-36 hours, unless they have got trapped beneath. We have searched extensively today, particularly along the banks to see if any body has got trapped underwater,” Shakeel said.
 
 The depth of the river ranged from around 12m to around 18m, he informed. 
 
 The likelihood of the presence of crocodiles in the river made the NDRF jawans go about the task cautiously. 
 
 “Our divers have been trained to deal with such underwater threats. We took all necessary precautions to ward off the threat of crocodiles. Before our divers went underwater, a motorboat went around the stretch on high speed so that the turbulence caused in the   and the noise of the motors would drive the crocodiles, if any, away,” Shakeel said. 
 
 As no missing person’s reports were filed at any of the police stations after the disaster occurred, police have been unable to ascertain the number of people feared drowned. 
 
 Deputy collector, Quepem, Prashant Shirodkar, who was overseeing the operations, declared the search operations closed for the day soon after the recovery of the third body at around 5pm.
 
 “Extensive search operations were carried out by Indian Navy, coastal security police, fire services, and NDRF. NDRF divers also conducted a thorough underwater search for more bodies. So far three bodies have been recovered. As there is remote possibility of recovery of more bodies today, we are calling off the search operations for the day. There is a possibility of the bodies having drifted afar owing the tidal phenomenon. The search operations may be resumed on Saturday,” Shirodkar told reporters. 
 
