GURGAON: A section of Sector 29 bars and eateries, which are already left high and dry by the   order banning   within 500 metres of highways, are now under the scanner of Haryana State Pollution Control Board ( ) for violating environmental norms.

 If officials at HSPCB are to be believed, the pollution watchdog has decided to crack down on around 20 outlets, especially microbreweries, in Sector 29 for not installing effluent treatment plants (ETPs) on their premises. 
 
 In January, the board had slapped show-cause notices to those bars, restaurants and microbreweries for not meeting effluent disposal and treatment norms. However, despite the notices and repeated reminders, the violators failed to prevent discharge of polluted water into the city’s drainage system, posing serious threat to  .
 
 “It has been three months since we gave notices and warnings to restaurant and pub owners in Sector 29, directing them to install ETPs at the earliest. However, they have not taken any action in this regard as yet. We are, therefore, going to meet them once again to give one last warning and make sure norms are followed,” said  , regional officer, HSPCB.
 
 “We will impose heavy penalty and take action against all those who fail to comply with the rules even after the last warning,” he added.
 
 As per the prescribed guidelines, one litre of discharged water shouldn’t contain more than 30mg of BOD (biochemical oxygen demand) and 250mg of COD (chemical oxygen demand). BOD and COD are two different ways to assess the effect discharged wastewater will have on the receiving environment. The greater the values, the higher the amount of pollutants present in the wastewater.
 
 There are 54 restaurants, five microbreweries and five three- and four-star hotels in Sector 29.
 
 Last year, the board had conducted inspections at some of the microbreweries and eateries, and found BOD and COD levels to be way above the prescribed limits.
 
 According to HSPCB sources, wastewater discharged from the hotels and restaurants flows into municipal sewer system and gets mixed with three drains — leg-1, leg-2 and Badshapur drain. The water from these three drains then flows down to Najafgarh drain, and finally into Yamuna.
 
