PUNE: A 14-year-old boy and his friend were severely beaten up, stripped and paraded naked in a housing society on Tuesday night by the enraged father of a girl who was their fellow student from school.

 The events were   on a   the same night. The man suspected the 14-year-old of stalking his daughter. The boy's mother lodged a complaint against four persons on Wednesday .
 
 “My son is under tremendous shock. He has sustained injuries all over his body. The membrane of one of his ears is damaged. They thrashed him for no reason. I am more worried about the clip which has already been circulated,“ the mother told TOIon Thursday . The Warje Malwadi police, late on Wednesday night, arrested four persons, including the girl's father and her brother, under sections 355 (assault or criminal force with intent to dishonour a person), 341(punishment for wrongful restraint) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the IPC and the relevant sections of the IT Act. A minor has also been detained.
 
 “All four were produced before the court on Thursday and later released on bail,“  , senior inspector of the Warje Malwadi police, said.
 
 The woman said her son and the girl study in the same class and are friends. “She has visited our house a few times.“
 
 On Tuesday , the boy and two friends had gone to Karvenagar.They were sitting on a bench along the road, which is close to the girl's house, and were chatting. The girl was not with them.“Around 8pm, a youth approached them posing as a policeman. He demanded that my son tell him why he was sitting there and suddenly began beating him up," the mother said.
 
 One of the friends fled. “Meanwhile, four more men arrived and started beating up my son and his friend,“ she added.When her son did not come home at the usual time, she called him on his cellphone. “The person, who posed as a policeman, took the call and told me that they have caught my son harassing a girl," she said.
 
 She called again on his mobile and realised he was in Karvenagar. “When I rushed there, I found my son injured. I was stunned when I came to know he had been paraded naked". She said her son would not do anything wrong. “I, however, apologised to the person posing as a policeman and took him back home with me. On the way , I told his friend to find out if he had sustained injuries on his private parts."
 
 She came to know the assaulters were the father and brother of her son's schoolmate. “I did not approach the police that night as I was worried about my son's condition,“ she said.
 
 A neighbour came to her residence on Wednesday and showed her the clip. “After seeing it, I wept. Then, I lodged a complaint against the suspects,“ she said. The clip was widely circulated, she added. “On Thursday morning, a domestic help asked about it. I want the police to help me delete the clip,"she said.
 
 Out of line, says  
 
 Senior inspector of   station Bajirao Mole said, “The girl's father should have come to us. We would have counselled the boy or would have informed his parents." Senior inspector Sanjay Patil of Juvenile Aid Police Unit of the Pune police said in such cases police personnel in plain clothes speak to the teen and if necessary sent him or her for counselling to government or private clinics. If the teen has been physically abused, a probe is conducted at his residence or at a neutral place in plain clothes.
 
