NOIDA: Even though BJP recorded a thumping victory in the   last week, an overall lull surrounds the three development authorities—Noida,   and YEIDA—of  , as senior bureaucrats expect an administrative shuffle as soon as a new chief minister is sworn in. While routine works are continuing on their own steam, no new infrastructure projects are expected to commence before the new CM takes charge.

 A reckee by TOI on Tuesday of the authorities of Noida and Greater Noida offices revealed an uneasy silence surrounding the bureaucratic offices. The normally buzzing office buildings had a reduced and almost nil visitor count even as several files remained pending in CEO of both authorities, Deepak Agarwal’s office. Many senior officials remained marked by their absence while some were seen dealing with routine matters. Only the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) saw the new BJP MLA elect,   call on the authority’s CEO Arunvir Singh to pay his respects and to unofficially discuss problems in his constituency.
 
 As per sources, when a new government takes over, report cards of all the government departments and IAS and PCS officials are expected to be assessed in detail before postings will be made to government offices. Favorites of the ousted SP government enjoying powerful positions since the last five years are likely to be shunted out, while BJP loyalists could be positioned in crucial departments. “It all depends on who will be the next Chief Minister of UP,” said a source. “Whoever is the CM will place his own loyalist in a key position,” he said. Sources also inform that after the victory of the saffron party, some bureaucrats have already started cozying up to BJP bigwigs in order to reserve plum posts for themselves. Several files are also being “cleaned up” on orders of the former ruling party to avoid any inquiries and cancelations of decision taken, by the new government.
 
 While there is a question mark on the next change of guard, residents of GB Nagar wonder about the several important infrastructure projects, which are yet to take off and those already under construction. As is customary, every successive government stalls the infrastructure projects under way on taking over, even as the ones in the pipeline are ignored or put on the back burner. Former CM, Akhilesh Yadav had announced two mega transport projects in December 2016, which were to come up at a cost of Rs 2800 crores. A 14.95-km Metro corridor estimated to cost Rs 2,668 crore from Noida Sector 71 to Knowledge Park-V in Greater Noida (west) and an elevated rotary interchange at sector 145 and 150 which will tremendously reduce commuting time between Delhi, Faridabad and Noida, Greater Noida. Also in doubt are fate of a 2500 acres ‘Samajwadi park’ in Greater Noida besides the multi-crore cycle tracks being put into place in Noida and Greater Noida.
 
 Residents hope that the under-construction 29.7 km Rs 5533 crore Noida-Greater Noida Metro corridor racing towards completion by the end of this year continues to maintain its momentum in the BJP regime. Residents also hope for a positive and conclusive outcome on the ongoing CAG audit being conducted into the accounts of the Noida Toll Bridge Company Ltd (NTBC) to ascertain if they have already recovered the cost and reasonable profit from the Delhi-Noida-Direct (DND) flyway.
 
