PATNA: The   discontinued its Bachelor of Architecture (BArch) course for 2017-18 session after it failed to get the affiliation for it from the   (CoA). CoA is a statutory body of the government of India under the Architect Act 1974 that grants licence for practice to architecture students after they complete their course.

 The affiliation of this course at BIT-P expired in 2015. On request, the CoA extended affiliation till 2016. As the institute was not able to fulfil the criteria for the recognition of the course, the CoA derecognized the course after its officials visited the campus in 2016. Later, the agitated students demonstrated against the institute administration.
 
 The head of the department, Anamika Nandan, told this correspondent on Friday that after a brief meeting with the officials of CoA in February this year, the institute assumed that they would not extend the affiliation. “This is the reason why the institute discontinued with the course for this session. We will meet the council officials in October, but we can’t take the risk of continuing with the course and jeopardize the future of the students,” Anamika said.
 
 In November 2015, the   had directed ten institutions, including BIT-P, to immediately shut down their off-campus centres as these are unauthorized and had been set up in violation of clause 6 of the UGC guidelines and Article 12(5) of the Deemed University Regulations 2010.
 
 “Later, on February 2016, the   (MHRD) issued a directive that the universities can set up and run up to a maximum of six off-campuses. It is not possible to shut down the well-established campuses. There are only two institutes in Bihar which offered BArch course,” said Anamika and added: “Students who completed their fifth year have applied for the licence to practice. They will get the licence within two months.”
 
 BIT-P director   assured that the 40 BArch students who completed their course from the institute in the last session (2016-17) will not face any problem due to de-recognition of the course from current session. “We hope the course will get the affiliation from CoA and it will continue from next session.”
 
 However, a student, who completed B-Arch course this year, was not sure whether he would get the licence or not. “The affiliation was extended only till 2016,” he said.
 
