LUCKNOW: Chief minister   on Monday announced that the   government would not impose any new   on   in the ongoing financial year, despite financial burden of farmer loan waiver and plan to expedite other infrastructure projects.

 Speaking on the floor of the Vidhan Parishad, Yogi said the state government would carry out all its programmes by minimising its expenses and not by imposing any tax burden on people. He said the state government decision to scrap 15 public holidays in the name of prominent personalities was already projected to save Rs 50,000 crore of state revenue annually.
 
 Yogi reasoned that state gross domestic product (GDP) was to the tune of Rs 12 lakh crore, which comes to Rs 1 lakh crore per month. By scrapping 15 holidays, therefore, the state government would be able save Rs 50,000 crore through maximum utilisation of manpower. He said the state government also intends to save funds in the health sector by roping in ambulances provided by Centre free of cost. Maintaining that as many as 150 such ambulances have already been pushed into service, Yogi said the bigger districts would be provided two more ambulances in the near future.
 
 His statement came minutes after Opposition led by the Samajwadi Party created uproar in the House accusing the   government of digressing from its commitment to waive off loans of farmers. Yogi, however, said the state government was committed to its promises and would do its bit for welfare of the people. The farm loan waiver alone is expected to cause an additional burden of Rs 36,000 crore on the coffers. This would be apart from financial burden of Rs 30,000 crore with the implementation of the 7th pay commission.
 
 He said ongoing wheat procurement process in the present government was 2.5 times more than what it was in the previous government. “This was being done without any discrimination in terms of caste, religion and region,” he said.
 
 The CM said state government has already paid Rs 22,000 crore to cane growers in the present crushing season. This, he said, was much more than what was paid in the previous crushing season. Yogi said while sugar mills formed the backbone of the state’s industrial economy, mills faced closure. “The previous government did nothing for the better of sugar industry and instead sold them off clandestinely,” said Yogi, adding that all CHCs, PHCs and government hospitals would soon be equipped with ‘Jansuvidha Medical Stores’ where cheap medicines would be made available.
 
 
