ROHTAK: In the male-dominated rural  , the number of women participants in   for reservation has been gradually growing at all protest sites. The difference is most visible in Jhajjar,  , Bhiwani and Charkhi Dadri.

 Meenu Malik from Atail village, who is one such woman participating in the sit-in at Jassia village of Rohtak, does not want to let this opportunity. In control of a tractor with four trailers full of slogan shouting men and women, Meenu makes it a point to make eye contact with anybody even mildly suspecting her driving skills.
 
 “I was a normal and shy girl before marriage. When I came here my husband used to cultivate 20 acres of land and would remain busy from all the time,” said Meenu, who has studied till Class X. Forced by circumstances, her husband thought her how to drive a tractor four years ago. She now regularly helps him and are able to finish all the work related to their farm quickly.
 
 However, women wing chief of Sarv Khap Mahapanchayat Santosh Dahiya puts the participation of women in a different light altogether. “During the Jat agitation last year, 31 youths of the community were killed during the ensuing violence. Women are out in huge number this time to stand as a wall between police and their husbands and sons in the case of a volatile situation,” she said.
 
 Dahiya, who too had visited the Jhajjar dharna on Sunday driving down a tractor, said it was their anger against the ruling BJP government that brought them to the dharna.
 
 Pawan Hooda, who manages the stage at Jassia dharna under the banner of   (AIJASS), said he was flooded with requests from women to perform on stage. “They want to sing Haryanvi folk songs and perform dances. No one had expected this,” he added.
 
 Counting benefits of women presence at the dharna, AIJASS members said in the 2016 agitation, situation went out of control as youths had dominated the scene but the presence of women participants keep the environment peaceful, lively and under control.
 
 The administration also remains under pressure and doesn’t think of using force in case of any untoward situation by chance due to the presence of women, including elderly ones, they claim.
 
 
