Hyderabad: The `City of Pearls’ has stolen a march over Bengaluru and Pune again with German automotive parts manufacturer ZF Friedrichshafen AG (ZF) chosing Hyderabad over the other two tech hubs for setting up its first technology centre in India at an investment of Euro 15 million. The new center, that was inaugurated by state minister for IT, MAUD, industries & commerce, mines & geology, public enterprises and NRI affairs, KT Rama Rao, will work in the area of electronics, embedded software and mechanical engineering. It will support ZF’s global development teams while enabling the company to accelerate local product development. “We have 1,000 engineers with TCS and Tech Mahindra with whom we have more than a 15-year-old partnership. They are automating testing for all our products -- braking systems, steering system, active safety, passive safety, all of the driver assist functionality that is needed in the driverless car … we are doing all of the testing and simulation here. They are also doing a lot of software development,” Mamatha Chamarthi, chief digital officer and executive lead for the India Technology Center (ITC) said. Apart from TCS and Tech M, the German player is also keen on engaging with startups here as well as T-Hub, she added. After setting up its first tech centre in Hyderabad, the company is mulling parking its second tech centre in Hyderabad as well. “We are in discussions with the government of Telangana… KTR wants to partner with ZF in Hyderabad to create a mobility engineering ecosystem… he has spoken to us and it seems like it is going to happen,” she said. This cluster will be coming up near Rajendra Nagar on the outskirts of Hyderabad and the IT minister has requested ZF to be the anchor client.

 Speaking about the major factors that swung the company’s decision in Hyderabad’s favour, she said that the easy availability of skilled talent and a proactive government were the major draws. As the German giant steps up its presence in Hyderabad, it is trying to boost its business in the country too. “The Indian government is trying to switch to NCAP (National Carbonaceous Aerosol Program) for checking emissions and is trying to mandate the airbag technology in cars ... those two areas are mostly addressed by our components … so even within India there is a huge market. Today we do not have much market share (in India),” she explained. ZF, which has its India head office in Pune and a manufacturing base in Chennai, is a global player in driveline and chassis technology as well as active and passive safety technology. It has a global workforce of around 1.37 lakh working in 230 locations across 40 countries. In 2016, ZF had clocked sales of 35 billion
 
 
