KOCHI:   will soon adorn fluorescent   to enable   as as part of the ‘Janamaithri traffic warden’ project from May. 

 K Laljy, assistant commissioner of police, Ernakulam, said they are in the process of enlisting volunteers. The spots to deploy the additional man power would be decided later. “We are in discussions with various residents’ associations across Kochi. The volunteers would be assigned an area comfortable and close to them. The timings of their service will also be as per their convenience,” said Laljy. The city police are looking for a minimum of 500 volunteers to be deployed across the city.
 
 The department plans to train the volunteers before the project is implemented. “A one-day training on traffic rules and guidelines for traffic management will be provided . A fluorescent jacket along with a badge authorizing them for traffic management will be provided to them,” said the officer.
 
 Spike in accidents and increase in number of vehicles on roads have forced police to seek help from residents.
 
 “Some associations have assured us that they would provide us volunteers. They will offer honorary service which is non-remunerative as of now,” said a senior officer with the Janamaithri project.
 
 Police sources said the volunteers shall not have any statutory powers to impose fine on traffic violators. They would help police officials in their campaign to educate the public on traffic rules and to manage traffic.
 
 The city, over the past seven years, witnessed more than 50% hike in the number of accidents. According to the state crime records bureau, 1,700 accidents were reported in 2008 and the number increased to 2,561 in 2015. The annual number of accidents per year in 2010 was 1,779 and it crossed 2,000 in 2012 with more than 2,280 accidents getting reported in the year. 
 
 According to statistics, more than 1,000 people were killed in road accidents between 2010 and 2016. Police said that the aim of improving participation of residents in traffic management will help in improving awareness about traffic rules among citizens. 
 
 “The aim is to increase participation of residents in community policing to improve awareness about rules and to support police in their efforts. A combined effort will always be more productive,” said city police commissioner M P Dinesh.
 
 Police officers said the community volunteers will assist student commuters and pedestrians. The citizen traffic warden project aims to be fully functional by the time the next academic year starts.
 
