GURUGRAM: An   woman who came to India from Tehran as a tourist in 2009, and liked it so much that she started living here, enrolled in Delhi University, and later married an Indian man, says there is a serious threat to her life and has filed three police cases — two of dowry harassment and molestation against her   and his friends, and a third of rape by a man who sexually assaulted her in her   home this April, allegedly to terrorise her into withdrawing the first two cases.

 The troubles of 36-year-old Sheeva (name changed) began on the day that was to mark the beginning of her permanent stay in the country. April 15, 2015, the day she got married. The man she wed, currently assistant general manager with an Indian construction giant’s Gurgaon office, she had met on a matrimonial website and dated for a year. They got married in court under the Special Marriage Act.
 
 “When we came back from court, he left me in my flat on the 7th floor and told me he was going out to celebrate with his friends,” Sheeva told TOI. “I was not taken to his home, which I had been barred from entering before the wedding because he told me it was not auspicious according to Indian customs.” Her in-laws were in Panchkula but Sheeva’s husband had his own flat on the 10th floor of the same society.
 
 A month after the wedding, Sheeva says she got the first indication of her husband’s philandering nature. In his apartment, she found clothes and shoes belonging to other women. These were women h was seeing even while dating her, she claims.
 
 Subsequently, through a turbulent phase as she tried to figure things out, she said her husband took away jewellery and gold coins worth about Rs 90 lakh her parents had gifted her when they came for the wedding function in June 2015.
 
 When Sheeva confronted her in-laws about her husband’s relationships with other women, they allegedly told her it wasn’t uncommon in India. Then came a dowry demand of Rs 2 crore. They had been to Iran together, and her husband was aware of the schools and property Sheeva’s family owned. “At the time I didn’t realise he was trying to assess how rich my family is,” she said.
 
 On June 18, 2016, three of her husband’s friends allegedly thrashed Sheeva in front of him at their Gurgaon house. Her husband then walked out. The next day, she went to Panchkula to speak to her in-laws.
 
 There, she alleges, the family initially did not let her in. When they eventually did, she claims she was locked in room and not given food. On the third day, after she collapsed, she was taken to a hospital in Chandigarh, where the doctor saw the severe bruising and contacted the Iranian embassy.
 
 Anticipating trouble, her father-in-law took her back home after telling the embassy everything was fine. Her husband too allegedly assured her he would mend his ways. But he got back to his old ways soon.
 
 After several attempts to contact police, Sheeva filed a complaint with the Iranian embassy, which was forwarded to the women’s police station in Gurgaon. A case was registered against her husband, father-in-law, mother-in-law and sister-in-law under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 498A (cruelty), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC on November 11, 2016. She also filed a criminal complaint with the DCP (east), and moved a petition in the district court seeking maintenance and a domestic violence case against her husband.
 
 On April 1, Sheeva says she was in her house when a man walked in. He had the keys. He allegedly tied up and gagged Sheeva, beat her up with cables and raped her. Later, he told her to drop the cases and leave the country. “He was sent by my husband to threaten me. Only he and I have the keys, and my keys were with me,” she said. That man, Majid, is now lodged in Bhondsi jail.
 
 A few days later, at the hearing of the maintenance case, the judge asked Sheeva and her husband to go out and come to an agreement on the settlement amount. Her husband allegedly took Sheeva to his car, and thrashed her there. A molestation case was registered on April 6. He was arrested but got bail four days later
 
 
