SHILLONG:   won the last-ever I-League when they drew 1-1 with fellow North-Eastern club,  , in the final round on Sunday.

 Needing a point to take the title and keep it out of the reach of chasing   who hosted Chennai City simultaneously in Kolkata, Aizawl fell back early in the game and fought back to draw level and take a well-deserved title in what has been widely considered as the most exciting I-League season since the national clubs' competition began as the National Football League in 1996.
 
 But as things stand, the thousands of happy, cheering fans who travelled with Aizawl and became synonymous with the team's popularity and winning ways, egging them on at each ILeague game, will be a thing of the past. Aizawl may be around to defend their title in the next season, but the I-League will be far from being adjudged India's national league. They will be playing for scraps in the second rung of Indian football's many proposed divisions under the new structure, and against those I-League clubs who do not merit to qualify to the elite league. Win or lose, they will be in exile in the division for seven years, because there is no provision for promotion to or relegation from the top division.
 
 "It's like topping the boards and not being allowed to enter the higher grade," club owner   told TOI on Sunday during Aizawl's victory celebrations. "How can you be the champion club and still not be allowed to play in the top division? Aizawl will strongly protest this unfair move."
 
 What's more, arch rivals Mohun Bagan may not be there.   too, as both are lobbying hard to be granted admission into a new elite division that's being created out of nothing because the creators of the Rs 500-plus crore worth   have deemed that their eight franchises are the real clubs of the country, and a toothless, cash-strapped   nods on. Three big Indian legacy clubs can join, provided they bring the franchise fee of Rs 15 crore. The two Kolkata giants will request a waiver of the same when they meet with   president   this week.
 
 Aizawl just showed the Indian football establishment that you don't need big bucks, just a sensible, sustainable model. Yet, corporate ambition continues to rule in the sport.
 
