LUCKNOW: With the family of the deceased   claiming that he was killed and the issue reverberating both the houses of UP legislature, the   on Thursday formed an   ( ) to look into the case. 

 Meanwhile, police are looking for at least two eye-witnesses who had reportedly spotted the Karnataka cadre   officer lying outside the Meerabai Marg guest house well before 5.30 am — more than 30 minutes before he could get any medical help. Lucknow police official press note also says that police got an alert about the body at 6.10 am.
 
 One of the eye-witnesses is a milkman who supplies dairy products to a tea shop near the guest house. He reportedly told some local roadside vendors that a hit-and-run case had taken place on Meerbai Marg. The other is a biker, who, after spotting the body, informed the local Narhi police outpost at around 5.45 am. 
 
 On the basis of his information, constable Harveer Yadav from the outpost rushed to the spot — about 500 metre away — and took the IAS officer to Civil Hospital, assuming that he was critically injured. By 6.00 am, Yadav had transferred the injured officer to hospital where he was declared ‘brought dead’. 
 
 While no FIR has been registered by the family, police have initiated inquest proceedings under section 174 of the CrPC. Headed by circle officer of Hazratganj, DySP Avanish Kumar Mishra, four SHOs would work on unravelling the mystery surrounding Tewari’s death.
 
 “Since we do not know whether Tewari was killed or died due to some medical condition, everything needs to be pieced together,” added Kumar, explaining why he constituted the SIT. The panel of four doctors which included additional CMO and head of forensic medicine of KGMU stated that Tewari died due to asphyxia but did not mention the reason which resulted in sudden lack of oxygen.
 
 On allegations by family members of the deceased that it was a case of murder, the SSP said they have not given any application for registration of an FIR yet. “They (family members) told us that Anurag was not allowed leave by seniors in Karnataka but the police is probing the matter professionally, looking at all the angles,” Kumar said.
 
 Meanwhile, police are yet to recover Tewari’s CUG phone. The officer used two phones --- a Samsung S7 (personal SIM) and Apple iPhone (CUG). While Samsung was found, the iPhone could not be traced.
 
 It was also not clear why Tewari left behind the cell phones inside the guest house before stepping out. The phones were recovered from the room though Tewari’s wallet was found in the pocket of his lower. Rs 5,380 were found in the wallet. The pattern of injuries was another point confusing investigators. 
 
 Anurag, a 2007-batch IAS officer, was staying at the Meerabai Marg guest house since May 15 after after attending a mid-career training programme at Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration in Mussoorie. On the night of May 16, a UP IAS officer, PN Singh — his batch mate — stayed with him. However, when Singh got up at 6.00am, he found Tewari missing from the room. Within 10 minutes, news about his body being spotted spread.
 
 As per initial police theory, Tewari fell on his face on bitumen road. According to constable Yadav, the first respondent, his head was resting on the left arm and face was facing the ground. Although two lacerated wounds on his chin were noted in the PM report, no abrasion or bruises were noticed on the nose, cheek, ear or external lips. Only Yadav had seen the actual position of the body as he turned it before rushing to hospital.
 
 
