The past decade has encountered a growing number of people who live longer. People who are surviving into old age are more prone to heart diseases. Functional capacity, i.e., the capacity of an individual to perform day-to-day activities is particularly important for these individuals, since it is an indicator of overall health and is a vital goal of care. 

 Today in our society almost 60% people do not go for regular exercise (according to study report). Children and younger population are badly affected by this physical inactivity. Recently a 21 year Law student had succumbed to heart attack in a well equipped heart institute. He had obesity, physical inactivity and faulty life style. Core of the message today is to modify the faulty life style and to specially adapt a habit of regular exercise program right from childhood and never stop it in the lifetime. 
 
  causes general, organ-level, and cellular changes which predispose individuals to heart and other diseases related to old age such as, cognitive impairment, sensory impairments, balance impairment and falls with complications that can be insidious, unbearable, and harmful.. Adults who survive into old age are predictably more susceptible to becoming inactive and to a cycle of events wherein presence of multiple diseases and hospitalizations causes a decline in functional capacity, which increases the risk of disability, dependency, and frailty.
 
 The act of physical exercise causes the release of various hormones in the body that are beneficial for maintaining the blood cholesterol, blood sugar, blood pressure and for maintaining a physiological balance. A new finding presented at American   (AHA) suggests that exercise in elderly people with heart disease can improve the heart health and ability to perform daily activities. Several other problems related to sleep, memory and metabolism are also associated with heart disease in old age. These findings explain the effects of exercise that are especially beneficial for older patients. It emphasizes healthcare professionals to prescribe exercise along with medications to target heart disease in the elderly. 
 
 On the basis of these findings, AHA recommends physical activity in older adults with heart disease to improve their quality of life along with improving the diseased condition. 
 
 The exercise program for older adults should be designed in such a way that it improves the capacity to perform day-to-day activities and improves their quality of life along with improving the heart function. Thus, exercise remains a primary therapy to improve functional capacity in adult population. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
