NEW DELHI: Even as he made new money-laundering allegations against senior   leaders today, sacked Delhi minister   took time out to say he wanted to "apologize" to former party members Prashant Bhushan and Yogendra Yadav for not hearing their concerns before chief   threw them out of the party. 

 "I profusely apologise to former senior AAP leaders Prashant Bhushan and Yogendra Yadav. We should have paid heed to their views back then."
 
 Having got that out of the way, Mishra moved on to his almost-daily job of the last two weeks - allegations against AAP and Kejriwal, this time to do with their alleged links to an allegedly dodgy businessman. 
 
 Mishra alleged that a Delhi businessman named Sheetal Singh, with alleged direct links to 
  , is the one who sponsored a foreign trip made by party leaders Sanjay Singh and Ashutosh. 
 
 Over a week ago, Mishra alleged that among other things, the source of funds for some AAP leaders' foreign trips was murky and needed to be looked into.
 
 Mishra said today that Sheetal runs a business that makes high-security license plates. He alleged that it's this business that is being investigated in a ''Rs 400 crore scam", which is connected to 'hawala', or money-laundering. 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 For two weeks now, Mishra has been dribbling out allegations about concealed funds and   against AAP and Kejriwal .
 
 On May 14, Mishra alleged that Rs 2 crore through four cheques of Rs 50 lakh each was transferred to AAP's coffers through four shell companies. Two days ago, he alleged Kejriwal made another Delhi businessman Mukesh Kumar falsely claim he donated that Rs 2 crore to AAP. 
 
 The suspended AAP member then exhibited four letters - of unknown provenance - he claimed were letters of donation of Rs 50 lakh each to AAP. Of the four, he said, only two were signed by Sharma.
  
 Before that, Mishra alleged that AAP leaders close to Kejriwal concealed donations from the public, lied to the 
  (EC) and laundered money using 16 shell companies. He then made a presentation - without official bank documentation - that he claimed included account information of the party.
 
 He alleged a huge discrepancy in 2013-2014 and 2015-2016 between the amounts AAP has in the bank, what it declared to the EC and what it made public on its website.
 
 
