Salem/Erode: The sale of liquor at illegal shops in rural areas of Salem and   has become rampant during non-working hours of Tasmac outlets. 

 Social activists allege that the police, prohibition enforcement wing (PEW) and Tasmac officials are remaining mute spectators to the illegal trade. 
 
 K Murugan, an activist from Erode, said, “Those who indulge in this illegal trade have backing of some politicians. Moreover, the enforcement agencies don’t take action against the miscreants.” 
 
 Complying with the Supreme Court order, state government closed liquor shops functioning close to state and national highways. In Tamil Nadu, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami ordered to close 500 Tasmac outlets in the state as promised in his party’s election manifesto. Meanwhile, the working timing of Tasmac shops was also restricted to 10 hours (from 12pm to 10pm) instead of previous timing of 12 hours (from 10am to 10pm). 
 
 Utilizing the time restrictions as well as court and government orders, many miscreants opened illegal liquor shops in rural areas. The activists alleged that Tasmac supervisors and salesmen were supporting those miscreants to sell liquors to an exorbitant rate as they get commission.
 
 “A brandy bottle which will be available for Rs 90 in the Tasmac shop is sold for Rs 140 in the illegal shops,” Murugan said adding that difference amount (Rs 50) will be shared between the miscreants and the Tasmac supervisors and salesmen.
 
 Tasmac supervisors, salesmen point to fixed sales ‘target’ fixed to each shop by the state government and reduction in working hours o Tasmac outlets for the mushrooming of illegal shops in rural areas. “While the business hours have been reduced, there was no compromise in the target and we have to cross the target amount every day,” said a Salem-based Tasmac salesman, on condition of anonymity. He added that they don’t have any option but to sell liquors in bulk to those who run illegal shops.
 
 “They will liquor bottles in bulk and will pay the MRP rate to us to reach our target,” the salesman added.
 
 When contacted by TOI, Salem district SP P Rajan said that he had ordered police to register case against Tasmac officials who sell liquor bottles in a large quantity to an individual person. 
 
 “We also had registered cases against Tasmac supervisors and salesmen for supporting miscreants,” he said. He said these miscreants come out on bail after their arrest as there is no stringent law to punish them.
 
 Erode district SP R Sivakumar said that about 90% of illegal liquor sales curbed in the district. A few illegal shops had been opened by miscreants when the state government closed Tasmac shops due to a Supreme Court order. “We had taken strict action against them and closed,” he said. He appealed to public that they can lodge complaint with him if they noticed any illegal liquor sale in their area or village.
 
 
