NEW DELHI: Never before had Delhi   faced a problem where a station was caught in the middle of nowhere. But that’s exactly what happened at its upcoming station at east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 under Phase III: unavailability of land at Trilokpuri meant that it could neither be linked with   depot nor Vinod Nagar.

 Now, DMRC is constructing a reversal station at Mayur Vihar Pocket 1. This will allow it to connect east Delhi with the Hazrat Nizamuddin station and, thus, the section of corridor from   to Hazrat Nizamuddin. The “reversal” will allow Metro to open the Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar line (south-west to east) till Mayur Vihar despite the gaping absence of a viaduct at Trilokpuri. The corridor, which is called line 7, will thus be operating as two sections: Majlis Park to Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 and Vinod Nagar to  .
 
 Delhi Metro spokesman Anuj Dayal said: “According to the original plan, a reversal was planned before Mayur Vihar Phase I, at the   station.” This would have meant that trains could come till Nizamuddin and reverse from there. In effect, trains from Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 could then only go towards Vinod Nagar depot and on to Shiv Vihar.
 
 However, non-availability of land at Trilokpuri meant that the viaduct between the Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 station and Trilokpuri could not be built. It meant that connectivity to Mayur Vihar would only have been possible once the station at Trilokpuri came up.
 
 According to Dayal, the stalemate at Trilokpuri prompted Metro to change plans. “We decided to construct the viaduct from Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 to the Trilokpuri Pocket 15 plot, so that a reversal may be created. Otherwise, the trial runs could be initiated only between Mukundpur depot and Hazrat Nizamuddin,” he said.
 
 A reversal station, as the name suggests, allows a train to reverse and go in the other direction. In this case, it provided Metro the means of connecting Mayur Vihar to the rest of the Line 7, towards Majlis Park. “Due to the reversal at Mayur Vihar Pocket 1, the trial runs can be initiated between Mukundpur depot and Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 via Lajpat Nagar,” added Dayal.
 
 The length of the viaduct between Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 and Trilokpuri station is 1.8km, and about 800m of viaduct from the Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 station is already constructed, said Dayal. “The viaduct of 785m from the Trilokpuri side towards Vinod Nagar depot is also ready,” he added.
 
 The good news is that the issue of land at Hasanpur — which was holding up connectivity between IP Extension and Vinod Nagar depot — has also been sorted out. “After completing the missing viaduct from Hasanpur, the depot connectivity from IP station can be established and the route from Shiv Vihar to IP Extension, a distance of 14km, will also be available for trials,” said Dayal.
 
 
