CHENNAI: If everything goes according to plan,   will turn into a snazzy passenger and commercial hub in around two years. Minister of railways Suresh Prabhu launched through video conferencing an ambitious Rs 350 crore   that aims to turn the key station into a world class airport-like facility.

 Of the 42 acres available at the station, 1.5 acres along Allikulam Road (Zoo Road) which leads to Poonamallee High Road will be handed over to a private company or consortium for commercial development. This will include construction of hotels and shopping malls under lease for 45 years. Revenue generated from the commercial area will be used to fund railway projects.
 
  general manager Vashishta Johri said the bid process would be completed in three to four months. “Once awarded, the railways will give a year and a half to complete the project,“ he added.
 
 Stating that 23 stations would be part of phase 1 of the programme, Suresh Prabhu said, “The commercial potential of vacant railway land near stations will be leveraged to develop world class stations with no additional funding requi red from the railways. The programme is expected to generate a surplus in excess of Rs 10,000 crore for the railways, which can be invested in other modernisation projects. Select high potential stations will be made iconic stations and will be developed as per the highest global standards and design norms.“
 
 He said the   had devised an innovative plan to provide these amenities through a public-private partnership (PPP) model by leveraging the real estate available at the railway stations. “With an overall size of 1 lakh crore (for 23 stations), this is one of the largest PPP programmes undertaken in the country. It will provide approximately 2,200 acres of prime land to private developers across top 100 cities,“ he added.
 
 As part of the programme,   will have commercial complexes, hotels and other facilities on 42 acres of land identified for the work. Suresh Prabhu inaugurated the project in New Delhi.
 
 The railways has reached out to private developers and investors through road shows in Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata and Abu Dhabi to gauge market interest and receive feedback on the bidding process. The Railway Board has also engaged with the zonal railways through multiple workshops to accurately assess land availability.
 
 More than 100 developers and other potential bidders took part in the launch programme, which was streamed live to different railway zones where the identified stations are located. In Chennai, 14 developers and representatives of the industry body participated in the programme.
 
