PANAJI/MARAGAO: The state government will come up with a policy on casinos in the upcoming monsoon session of the Goa legislative assembly, scheduled to begin on Tuesday.

 Speaking to TOI, chief minister Manohar Parrikar, who also holds the home portfolio, said guidelines on casinos will be announced during the session on demand for grants for the home department.
 
 “Based on these guidelines, a policy will be brought out,” Parrikar said.
 
  Earlier, reacting to the grounding of casino vessel MV Lucky Seven at Miramar beach on Sunday, town and country planning (TCP) minister and GFP president Vijai Sardesai said, “The casino owner is not a Goan, so he is not aware that the vessel should not have been moved during the monsoon.”
 
 Pointing out to mediapersons that it was not a government decision, but court directives to permit this vessel to enter into the Mandovi river, Sardesai said, “Goans are well aware and understand the strength and the impact of the high seas during the monsoon. Hence, trawlers do not venture into the high seas during this dangerous period.” Sardesai also blamed the captain of ports for the vessel getting grounded off Miramar beach.
 
 Expressing his sympathy for those injured during the grounding of the casino vessel, the TCP minister said, “It (casinos) is the chief minister’s domain, but there will be a unanimous cabinet decision announcing the government policy on casinos during the assembly session. It will be for the people to protect the rivers and not the gamblers”.
 
 The TCP minister further refuted a report published in a section of the media that this decision would be bad for the casino industry. “Although I am a minister, I am critical of the government on this issue,” he said.
 
 Demanding that offshore casino operations be brought on land to safeguard those employed in these casinos, Sardesai reiterated his personal opposition to casino vessels operating in River Mandovi and quickly added that he was not against casinos that generate revenue for the state.
 
