PATNA: Amid reports of Samajwadi Party-Congress combine ruling out the possibility of accommodating parties like RLD or JD(U) in their alliance for   election, Bihar CM Nitish Kumar’s JD(U) will discuss the issue and review its stand on demonetisation at its core committee meeting here on Monday.

 Former JD(U) president Sharad Yadav and national secretary general K C Tyagi on Sunday held a meeting with the party’s national president and CM Nitish Kumar on the issue of contesting assembly polls in UP and Punjab. Before going to the CM house, Yadav and Tyagi interacted with several other party leaders on the issue.
 
 Insiders said JD(U) role in UP and   and its stand on demonetisation would be the main agenda at the core committee meeting. “Nitish has called the party’s core committee meeting on Monday. Along with other important national issues and assembly polls in different states, the party will also discuss the effect of demonetisation in society,” Tyagi told TOI. 
 
 Nitish has been supporting PM Narendra Modi on the note ban issue since its announcement on November 8 last year. During the Prakashotsava celebrations at Gandhi Maidan here on January 5, the two leaders praised each other on prohibition in their respective states.
 
 Tyagi said JD(U) supported the PM’s note ban decision because it considered demonetisation as a step towards curbing black money and fighting corruption in the country. “The 50-day period sought by the PM to bring normalcy after the demonetisation is now over. But the larger portion of black money is floating in the form of bullion, benami property and foreign deposits. It is true that farmers, labourers, small businessmen and daily wagers have faced a tough time during this period. Hence, the party has decided to analyse the impact of note ban,” he said.
 
 JD(U) had earlier called for a Bihar-like grand alliance with the  , Congress, Ajit Singh’s RLD and some other smaller parties to checkmate BJP in UP. But it couldn’t formalize after the SP’s new chief   reportedly declined to accommodate RLD in the alliance. “Earlier, we wished a Bihar-like grand alliance in UP. Since the grand alliance could not take place, the JD(U) will discuss the issue at its core committee meeting,” Tyagi said.
 
 
