INDORE: Municipal corporation’s move to dispose of   at the   has come as a boon for vultures. The numbers of Egyptian vultures has gone up in the area as compared to last year.

 Ravi Sharma, a bird expert in the city, has claimed numbers of vultures have gone up to 83 as compared to 60 last year. Other bird experts have said there is an increasing trend in the number of vultures.
 
 “The increase shows these scavengers are getting enough food in the area,” said Ajay Gadikar, another bird expert.
 
 While experts are happy about the fact that vultures are getting food in the area, others raised questions about IMC disposing carcasses in the open. However IMC denied the fact.
 
 “As per rules, carcasses are buried. However, some body parts and skin of certain animals are used before disposal. In such cases, it is not possible to segregate them from waste. This waste acts as food for the scavengers,” said  , health officer, Indore Municipal Corporation.
 
 Yadav also said that water available at the spot is safe for vultures and this too has helped increase its population here.
 
 However, with IMC planning to install advanced machines at the trenching ground, the population may go down.
 
 “If new machines are installed in the area, the waste will get covered. We have seen in the past that in some cities this would lead to scavengers shifting to other places,” Sharma said.
 
 The forest department had conducted a state wide survey of vultures last year. However, no such survey was conducted this year.
 
 The largest vulture population was spotted in  , where 793 vultures were spotted. Mandsaur stood second with 681 while 283 vultures were found in Neemuch. While the scavenger birds were spotted at 153 sites in Mandsaur region, they lived in 25 sites in Neemuch. The entire region that comes under forest department of Ujjain registered 974 vultures at 179 sites.
 
 Vulture too face the risk of extinction. The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) has put the birds on its red list of threatened species. Nearly 96 to 98% of the population has been wiped out in the last two decades and now a miniscule number of vultures are left.
 
