GHAZIABAD: A 25-year-old woman was allegedly   by two unidentified men at Sikroad village in   on Friday night. The survivor, a trainee nurse, was returning home from work when she was waylaid by two men who dragged her to a nearby paddy field and raped her. The woman, currently admitted to a private hospital, is in a state of shock. An FIR has been lodged in Sihani Gate police station and a manhunt has been lodged to nab the accused.

 The survivor, who was working as a trainee nurse in   in Rajnagar Extension for the past three months, had wrapped up her work and headed home to Sikroad village at around 8.30pm. She took a shared auto and got off on the main road. And like any other day, she started walking towards her home which is nearly 2 km inside the village. “It was raining and the road leading to our house was deserted when she noticed a man in his early twenties,” said her brother. “The man started following her and there was something which made her suspicious. So she took out her phone and pretended to call someone after which the man disappeared in the narrow lanes,” added her brother. “But hardly she had walked 500 metres, the man re-appeared, and this time with another man who waylaid her,” he said.
 
 She was then dragged deep inside the paddy field. “She said that she was thrashed when she tried to resist them. Later, the accused took turns to rape her,” said her brother. “ They also filmed the act in their phone,” he said. 
 
 When asked whether she saw the faces of the accused, he said: “It was dark and it was raining. So she could not see their faces clearly but she said that one of accused had a teeth stained with pan masala and they called each other Ankit and Kapil.”
 
 After a half-an-hour ordeal, the woman was let off. The accused fled immediately but not before taking away her mobile phone. The woman, in tattered clothes, somehow reached her home and narrated the ordeal to her family members who in turn informed police.
 
 Her father, who worked in the civil court in  , had retired nine years ago. He sat alone in one corner of the hospital where the she has been admitted. “I told her to leave the job as she gets back home only after 9.30pm. However, she said that she wanted to be independent,” said her father.
 
 Dr Mayank Tyagi, medical superintendent, Vaardan hospital, where she is undergoing treatment, said: “She was brought to the hospital on Saturday morning. Currently she is too shocked to talk. So we have kept her in isolation ward where her condition is being monitored.” Medical tests conducted on her has confirmed rape.
 
 The police camped the area the whole night and launched a manhunt to arrest the accused. “We picked up two men late on Friday night who are being questioned. However, till now we have not got any leads,” said officiating SP (city) Shyam Narayan Singh. “We are scanning CCTV footages in the nearby areas and in one footage we could see the victim hurriedly walking towards her home at around 9.52pm. However, unfortunately, there is no trace of the accused but based on the description given by the woman, we hope to arrest the accused soon,” said Singh. 
 
 A case under sections 376(d) and 394 of IPC has been lodged in Sihani Gate station.
 
 
