BHOPAL: State Congress led by leader of opposition Ajay Singh on Tuesday morning staged a   outside chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s official residence demanding resignation of minister of state  , who has been made accused in the murder of  . In an area protected under section 144 CrPC, the Congressmen managed to dodge police barricades and heavy deployment of uniformed men to reach the main gate of CM House at 6, Shamla Hills.

 Congress leaders, including leader of Opposition Ajay Singh, senior MLA Dr Govind Singh, MLA Arif Aqueel, party legal cell chief JP Dhanopia and former mayor of the city Vibha Patel, sat on a dharna under a tree, demanding Arya’s resignation for the murder of Congress MLA Makhanlal Jatav who was shot dead during a Lok Sabha election public meeting in Bhind on April 13, 2009. A Bhind court last week directed to make minister of state for GAD Lal Singh Arya an accused in the murder and issued an arrest warrant against him.
 
 Arya took a stay on the arrest warrant, while the state government said he will not step down. Speaking to TOI, leader of Opposition Ajay Singh said, “There are two sets of rules and law under BJP rule in  . One set for the common man, and another for BJP leaders who can get away with murder. The court has given a stay on Lal Singh Arya’s arrest for a few days, but the case against him under section 302 for murder remains. He should have resigned on moral grounds, but he is sticking to his chair.”
 
 Congress is confident that the ruling BJP cannot save Arya from imprisonment. “The court has taken cognizance and made him accused in the murder of Congress MLA. He will go to prison. He had evaded the jail for long, but now law has caught-up with him,” Ajay Singh added.
 
 At 10 am, the Congress decided to split its agitating workers into two groups. While a huge crowd advanced towards CM House from Roshanpura Square towards Banganga, Ajay Singh and his small group of senior Congress leaders made a swift move from Shamla Hills. While police jostled with the crowd of Congress workers at Banganga and were busy arresting them, Ajay Singh and others managed to reach CM House.
 
 By 11:15 am, police arrested the leader of opposition, Dr Govind Singh, Arif Aqueel and others and took them to the Central Jail, but they were released later.
 
