MADURAI: The Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple in Madurai has been adjudged the cleanest iconic place in the country under   (cleanliness is service) programme. The temple earned the top slot from among 10 iconic places selected under the   in the country.

 Dedicated to Meenakshi, an incarnation of Parvati, and her consort Sundareswar, an incarnation of Shiva, the temple was adjudged the Best Swachh Iconic Place from a formidable list of contenders that included the  , Ajmer Sharif Dargah, the Golden Temple, Tirupathi temple and Sri Vaishno Devi temple. Madurai district collector   and corporation commissioner Aneesh Sekhar will collect the award at a function being organised by the ministry of drinking water and sanitation, the convening ministry for Swachh Bharath Mission, in New Delhi on Monday. The function will be held to mark Gandhi Jayanthi and the culmination of the Swachhta Hi Seva.
 
 Over the last few years, there has been concerted efforts to keep the Madurai temple clean and plastic-free. In all, 60 contract employees worked all through the day to keep the premises clean while about 300 volunteers joined the drive every month. Industrial houses such as TVS and Thiagarajar Mills too chipped in with their staff for cleanliness drive. Joint commissioner of the temple N Natarajan said the temple administration equipped the staff with the best tools including mopping machine, water air gun and hydraulic ladder to make the cleaning process easier. Though there was an order to slap a fine of Rs 50 on those littering the temple, "we have never had the need to do so because the clean environment deters people from littering it,'' he said. Though there was an order to slap a spot fine of Rs 50 on anybody who littered the temple, "we have never had the need to do so because the clean environment of the temple itself deters people from littering it,'' Natarajan said. After the temple made it to the first list of 10 out of 100 iconic places selected in the country, the Madurai corporation and district administration paid special attention to the shrine. They banned plastic in a 1km radius of the temple from January 1 and conducted regular checks.
 
 Corporate social responsibility activities and funds of Rs 11.65 crore from Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) helped improve sanitation and cleanliness in the temple and its surroundings.Aimed at making the temple attractive to tourists, self flushing e-toilets were installed around the temple. As dust from manual sweeping can be a menace, the streets around the temple are cleaned with only mechanical hand sweeping machines.
 
 Dumper bins, which can spoil the appearance of the temple, were replaced by the more attractive compactor bins which can be lifted by smaller vehicles. Besides these, twin bins paved the way for on-site segregation of biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste. Acquisition of water ATMs (machines that purify water on site) is in the tender stage while battery vehicles are also to be reintroduced to transport tourists and visitors to the temple.
 
 Madurai corporation assistant health officer   said waste is being collected only after segregation at source from houses, eateries and business establishments near the temple.
 
 Officials are also exploring the possibilities of installing a dedicated sewage treatment plant so water from the temple could be recycled and used to water parks and gardens around the temple.
 
