SILIGURI: It was drama at its best. It was a denouement at its most exciting.

 Four goals - two in each half, two penalties and two red-cards kept the pendulum of the CFL Premier Division title battle with all its unexpectedness and animosity throughout 90 minutes at the Kanchenjungha Stadium here on Sunday. In the end,   kept their reign in the local league intact for the eighth season running following the 2-2 draw with  .
 
 Both teams finished the league with 23 points each from nine games, but Khalid Jamil's side sealed the deal thanks to better goal difference (+21 against +15). But these were mere statistics and what unfolded inside the ground was far beyond it and full of drama. 
 
 Needing a win to end what their coach Shankarlal Chakraborty called a "jinx", Mohun Bagan showed more urgency and ingeniousness in the match, taking the lead twice early on in each half. East Bengal had to rally each time, before settling for what the doctor had ordered - a minimum draw.
 
 Azharuddin Mallick, who scored the last goal in the previous derby played here five months ago (a 2-1 win for Bagan in I-League second leg), was back on target again in the fourth minute, although he was helped by East Bengal centre-back Carlyle Mitchell who was guilty of pushing the ball in instead of clearing it.
 
 East Bengal got a ray of hope two minutes from the first half through Laldanmawia Ralte.
 
 Then came two penalties in a span of 15 minutes, adding further drama to the contest. On the first occasion,   calmly converted the opportunity after Mitchell fouled Kamo Bayi inside the box in the 49th minute, forcing referee   to point to the spot.
 
 Then, it was East Bengal's turn to earn their own penalty when Mahmoud Al Amna drew a foul from Bagan left-back Raynier Fernandes in the 63rd minute and the Syrian playmaker came up with an impeccable penalty to beat Shilton Paul for the second time.
 
 With both teams struggling to keep pace with the intensity of the game, it soon turned ugly. Second-half substitute   was booked five minutes after his arrival for a lunging tackle on Bagan captain Kingshuk Debnath. But the latter, who was already booked in the first half, reacted with a vengeance, kicking on the face of his challenger and leading to his expulsion in the 82nd minute.
 
 But East Bengal hardly managed to enjoy their numerical advantage as Surabuddin now turned villain, earning his second booking and expulsion with an unnecessary foul on Bikramjit Singh two minutes later.
 
 Still, Bagan came calling, hoping for one final twist to the tale. But East Bengal held on, with the last dregs of their resilience, to snatch the draw and the title for the record-extending eight times in a row. 
 
 In the end, Mohun Bagan left the ground thinking what it could have been had they utilized those early chances.
 
 Left with the option of nothing but winning, Mohun Bagan stormed the rival box right from the word go, all guns blazing and with a ferocious determination. Azharuddin's goal left East Bengal's rear-guard in a shambles and their midfield crying in vain for some salvation from Amna. Mohun Bagan, driven on by the sense of the occasion, looked like a team baying for more blood. Azharuddin's acrobatic volley went over the bar and then saw his another attempt miss the target by a whisker while Mitchell denied Kromah with a last-gasp tackle.
 
 Just when East Bengal, gasping for breath under Mohun Bagan's relentless attack, were shaking in trepidation and fearing for worse, they got a lifeline against the run of play.
 
 Shilton D'Silva, who was brilliant in restricting Amna's movements, was booked after committing a foul on   around six yards away from the box in the 43rd minute. Gabriel floated the resultant free-kick deep into the box. Lalramchullova, following its trajectory, squared the ball right from the byline and Ralte was at the right place and right time to complete a simple tap-in.
 
 End of the contest? No way.
 
 Instead, it made way for more dramas in the second half. Kromah's conversion of penalty was followed by a similar answer from East Bengal when Amna earned and stepped up to convert from the spot, thus his team a lifeline for the second time.
 
 Kingshuk and Surabuddin's red-cards reduced each team to 10 men in the final 10 minutes but intensity of the contest continued until the final whistle.
 
 Honours were eventually shared but it was East Bengal who walked home with the trophy.
 
