BENGALURU: Contrary to what Siddaramaiah may have hoped to achieve out of `Lingayat for religion' controversy, the issue has only invited High Command's wrath for going against its line

 The burgeoning   movement, conceived as a political strategy to counter the BJP's influ ence across North Karnataka, is now turning out to be a problem for the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government in the state. This is primarily because the `movement' is going against AICC President  's previous efforts in the region.
 To make matters worse, water resources minister MB Patil's recent gaffe (in which the top pontiff of Siddaganga Mutt in Tumakuru clarified that he never said that he favoured a separate religion for Lingayats ­ contrary to what Patil had claimed) in a poll-bound year has caught the Congress High Command's attention. Sonia Gandhi has reportedly conveyed her unhappiness to Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and party in-charge   over the issue.
 
 Sonia Gandhi has maintained a neutral stand on the VeerashaivaLingayat issue for decades, staying silent on the call for a separate religion status too. In fact, when she visited Bagalkot to take part in the centenary celebrations of the famous Shivayoga Mandir near Badami in 2010, she had reportedly said that both Veerashaiva and Lingayat are one and the same and argued that the Congress's philosophy was based on Basavanna's secular ideas. She had cautioned the community against bigots and divisive forces. But seven years later, her party's conscious effort to create a rift between Veerashaiva and Lingayat, especially by dragging seers of prominent Lingayat mutts into the dispute, has certainly not gone down well with her.
 
 Interestingly, Sonia had actively taken part in functions organised by Akhila Bharata Veerashaiva Mahasabha ( ) that held centenary celebrations of Shivayoga Mandir and centenary birthday celebrations of Shivakumara Swami of Siddaganga Mutt in Tumakuru in the last few years before the state voted Congress to power.
 
 At both events, Sonia had hailed the contributions of the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community towards building of the Congress party and applauded the works of Lingayat mutts to uplift the downtrodden.However, Sonia had refused to comment on the demand made by swamis to provide a separate column for the community in the Census forms -close on the lines of Jains, Sikhs and Buddhists. She had said: “India has a galaxy of revolutionaries, mahatmas and saints. But Basavanna's rationalistic thinking and his legacy inspire me.Basavanna stands in stark contrast to others when it comes to fighting social evils. It is amazing to note the efforts made by Lingayat mutts and swamis in providing education and food to the poor, as advocated by Basavanna.“
 
 Commenting on ABVM at Bagalkot, Sonia had remarked: “Establishment of Shivayoga Mandira and Veerashaiva Mahasabha is a landmark in the history of Karnataka. The works done by Basavanna, his followers and mutts across Karnataka are worthy to be emulated by others and this will go a long way in establishing an egalitarian society.“
 
 Ironically, now, it is the leaders of Congress government itself who are rallying to divide the community. Since drawing flak for going against the words of AICC president on the sensitive issue, the   leaders have now reportedly decided to leave it to the religious leaders and ABVM to arrive at a consensus.
 
 Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) President G Parameshwara told media persons in Tumakuru that neither the party nor the Chief Minister will have any say in the issue.“Neither the party nor the CM has any role in the current controversy. In fact, this is not an issue for a political party to decide on. The religious leaders have to resolve it. We have already directed the Lingayat leaders of the party not to drag the party into it.“
 
 A state cabinet minister, who is a Lingayat leader from Kalaburagi, Sharana Prakash Patil, said: “The controversy is a closed chapter now. What is pending before us is to get a separate religion tag. Whether it will be called Veerashaiva or Lingayat will be decided by the committee that will be constituted by the government. Water resources minister MB Patil has also met Shivakumara Swami of Siddaganga Mutt and resolved the confusion. Now, all of us will decide on the formation of the committee.“
 
