PATNA: The   Teachers’ Association (PUTA) executive on Monday released the detailed programme of its election scheduled for April 12.

 PUTA general secretary Anil Kumar said PU philosophy department head Rama Shankar Arya would be the chief returning officer. The draft electoral roll will be published on Tuesday. It will be sent to the heads of all institutions for corrections, if any. The final electoral roll will be published on March 28. Teachers contesting the elections will file their nomination papers on March 29 and 30. The scrutiny of nomination papers will be done on March 30 and the list of valid nominations will be published on March 31. The withdrawal of nominations will take place on April 1. Election will be held at Wheeler Senate House on April 12.
 
 PU teachers will elect one president, two vice-presidents, general secretary, two joint secretaries and treasurer besides executive committee members through secret ballots, Kumar said. PUTA election is being held after more than two years. 
 
 Varsity teachers’ Demands Day on April 17: More than seven lakh university and college teachers in the country, including those from Bihar, will observe Demands Day on April 17 in protest against the non-fulfilment of their long pending demands and the inordinate delay in making the recommendations of the 7th   Pay Review Committee Report public.
 
 This decision was taken at the national executive committee meeting of the All India Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations (AIFUCTO) at   in Tamil Nadu on Monday.
 
 The federation will launch a letter-writing campaign in the first week of April to apprise the Prime Minister, HRD minister and UGC chairman of the growing discontent among the college and university teachers over the delay in implementation of the revised UGC payscale.
 
 AIFUCTO general secretary Arun Kumar said despite repeated requests by the teachers’ representatives, the report of the   has not been made public. On the contrary, the Union government is hell bent upon introducing several draconian measures through new education policy. The aggrieved teachers will launch a nationwide stir if their genuine demands were not accepted soon, he added.
 
 
