Nashik: The state has turned down the request of the Nashik- based India Security Press (ISP) and Currency Note Press (CNP) to waive off the property tax dues that it has to pay the Nashik Municipal Corporation ( ).

  While the dues of the ISP is to the tune of Rs 54.9 lakh, the CNP has to clear dues of Rs 5.53 crore.
 
  Both ISP and CNP had written to the state government on December 26 last year pleading waiver of the property tax imposed bythe NMC on the grounds that both were governed by the Union government.
 
 The state government, however, dismissed the appeal in a letter to the ISP and the CNP, and informed the municipal corporation about it through a written copy.
 
 “ISP and CNP had appealed that the local tax imposed on them should be scrapped as per the Maharashtra Municipal Corporations Act section 451. But the state government’s urban planning department said that the ISP and the CNP were converted into corporations. Hence, they are supposed to pay the taxes as per section 406 of the Maharashtra Municipal Corporations Act. Their appeal was refused,” an NMC official said.
 
 He added that a copy of the letter was marked to the civic chief and that they had received the copy recently. 
 
 There are only four CNPs across the country, including two units of Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and remaining two of SPMCIL. The RBI's two note presses are located in Mysore (Karnataka) and Salboni (West Bengal). Other two CNPs of SPMCIL are located in Nashik and Dewas (Madhya Pradesh).
 
 The SPMCIL that prints government currencies and other security documents and manufactures coins has nine units across the country, including two CNPs. Of the nine units, two each are located in Nashik and Hyderabad along with a unit each in Mumbai, Kolkata, Noida, Dewas and Hoshangabad. The CNP and India Security Press are located in Nashik.
 
 The ISP Nashik prints revenue stamps, stamp papers, passports and Visas, while CNP Nashik is printing currency notes with all denominations, except new note of Rs 2,000 denomination.
 
 
