For students of a leading management college, it was a refreshing experience when   leader and transport and shipping minister   disclosed the secrets of raising huge funds for key projects despite the fact that the state-run enterprise set up by him had a meagre capital.

 As the public works minister in 1995, Gadkari had drafted an ambitious plan to construct the Mumbai-Pune expressway. He had a series of meetings with  , senior bureaucrats, developers and contractors. A large number of leading industrial houses participated in the tendering process, and the lowest tender was for Rs 3,600 crore.
 
 Gadkari felt that the cost should not be more than Rs 2,000 crore. Gadkari then floated the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation, with a capital of Rs 5 crore and less than 50 employees. Gadkari mooted the idea of raising the bonds. The proposal was out rightly rejected by the then finance secretary and chief secretary.
 
 The then chief minister, Manohar Joshi, was also reluctant but later agreed to approve provided Gadkari takes complete responsibility of the success or the failure of the scheme. Says Gadkari, the MSRDC mobilised Rs 2,000 crore for the expressway. 
 
  
 
 
 Chief minister   is facing a piquant situation over demand for loan waiver, particularly when Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP president Amit Shah have declared a complete loan waiver for Uttar Pradesh farmers. Fadnavis was more disturbed when the ruling Shiv Sena joined opposition leaders Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil and Dhananjay Munde. 
 
 Fadnavis said that he was against the loan waiver for two reasons, firstly, if the loan is waived, there is no guarantee that it will halt farmer suicides and secondly, it will benefit leading financial institutions in the cooperative sector and not the farmers. It is estimated that loan waiver will result in a burden of Rs 31,000 crore on the state exchequer. He succeeded in persuading Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray, who dropped his plan to protest against the budget presentation. Fadnavis felt that the   government will come to his rescue to bear part of the burden. In fact, he, accompanied by Shiv Sena cabinet members, approached finance minister Arun Jaitley for financial assistance, but the entire exercise was futile.Now there is no possibility of a loan waiver scheme.
 
  
 
 
 A year after he took over the reins of the Mumbai, there is a welcome change in the style of functioning of   commissioner Datta Padsalgikar. Ever since he succeeded media friendly Ahmed Javed, Padsalgikar did maintain a distance from media. In fact, even securing routine information on the crime beat was difficult for the scribes. An impression was created in the media that Padsalgikar was not in favour of too much publicity either for himself or for his subordinates. 
 
 Padsalgikar was disturbed when crucial information in the crime conference appeared in a section of the media. Says a high ranking IPS officer that Padsalgikar's contention was that basic information should be disclosed immediately and care should be taken that larger than life size image of the officials dealing with the case should not be projected. Padsalgikar's efforts have worked out, now information is just a call away.
 
