BENGALURU: Of the 500 applications citizens sent to the BBMP commissioner’s office for inclusion in  , only five have been selected so far, say activists.

 “The number of applicants was low as most people were not even aware of the committee formation. As of now, only five citizens have been chosen, ” said Kathyayini Chamaraj, executive trustee, CIVIC.
 
 The BBMP had notified 131 ward committees last week. Activists, however, say they mostly comprise party members, and friends, supporters and relatives of councillors. Members of the remaining 67 committees will be made public by July 17.
 
 Councillors’ spouse are members!
 
 In two wards, the spouses of women councillors have been chosen as members of the committees. In   (ward 85), Hoodi Vijay Kumar, husband of corporator Swetha Vijay Kumar, has been included in the panel. Swetha said her husband knows the ward inside out and is interested in its development: “This is why he has been included; there’s no political intention behind the decision,” she said, adding that a few social workers are part of the committee.
 
 Hoodi said he was eligible to be a member. “I know the ward very well. Those who don’t understand the nuances of the ward, can’t be members of the panel. The other members are experts on subjects like waste management and traffic,” he reasoned.
 
 In Shanthi Nagar (ward 117), corporator P Sowmya’s ( ) husband P Shivakumar has been chosen. When asked about the conflict of interest, Shivakumar his inclusion in the ward committee has nothing to do with his wife being the corporator. “I am the president of  , which has been serving society through many activities like blood donation camps.”
 
 Shivakumar added: “One or two members may be Congress supporters, but it’s not true that the entire list is made up of Congress supporters. We have members from women’s self-help groups and those from resident welfare associations (RWAs). Those who are campaigning against us have vested interests.”
 
 Interestingly, Soumya’s mobile number in corporators’ list on the BBMP website is displayed as Shivakumar’s number in the ward committee members’ list.
 
 Civil society members and activists will gather in front of Town Hall at 11 am on Friday to protest against what they call an irregular formation of ward committees.
 
 “We demand that the 131 ward committees which have been constituted be reviewed and revised, and that citizens’ applications be included. Names of councillors’ friends, supporters and family members should be removed from the lists, and the BBMP should publish the criteria for selection/rejection in the public domain,” said Chamaraj.
 
 “The only reason we submitted our applications to the commissioner’s office was because we thought nodal officers, under pressure from corporators, may not carry out the nomination process in an unbiased manner. But, seeing the result, the credibility of BBMP itself has become questionable. Members of CIVIC, BPac,   and Whitefield Rising will be part of the protest,” said Lanchamukta Karnataka Nirmana Vedike.
 
 
 
 
 The reason we have displayed lists on the website is so that all citizens can go through them and inform us of any irregularities. If it is brought to my notice that people have been wrongfully included, their names will be removed
 
 
 
 
