MUMBAI: He may be well past his prime, but it isn't just football why Brazilian legend   is so loved. Apart from his deft touches, curling freekicks and an enthralling skillset, it's his toothy grin and samba-style celebrations that have captivated audiences worldwide.

 It's no surprise that the NSCI Stadium here was packed to capacity on Sunday ahead of the day's first match of   season 2 featuring Ronaldinho's Delhi Dragons against the Hernan Crespo-led Chennai Singhams.
 
 In the second match of the day, home team Mumbai Warriors, led by   legend   rallied to beat Michel Salgado-led Kerala Cobras 6-4. Ronaldinho had scored four goals in the season's inaugural match against Mumbai, and naturally the crowd wanted to see more of the same.
 
 And he did respond ever so brilliantly, scoring a brace to help the Dragons win 4-2 in a hotly contested encounter. And he made sure that the spectators will never forget the day, as he constantly gestured the crowd to be more vocal. After receiving the Man-of the-Match award, the 2002 World Cup winner went to greet a section of the stands. He was mobbed naturally, but he didn't seem to mind one bit.
 
 It took the former Barcelona talisman just two minutes to get on the scoresheet, and surprisingly, it was a header.   Costa floated a brilliant ball across the defence and Ronaldinho just guided it past the goalkeeper with his head.
 
 Former Argentinia star Crespo equalised in stellar fashion just two minutes later. After trapping a low through ball, Crespo chopped it over the oncoming keeper to get the scores level. Sadly, that was Crespo's only notable contribution in the game, as he spent most of his time on the bench, much like he did in the game against Telugu Tigers on Saturday.
 
 After Angel Claudino put Chennai in the lead in the second quarter, they seemed to be happy with the advantage and didn't really push to double their lead. They were punished for being defensive in the 26th minute when Rolon equalised for the Dragons in exceptional fashion, poking the ball from outside the box.
 
 Ronaldinho then gave Delhi the lead in the 28th minute, chipping the ball past the goalkeeper after receiving the ball from a rebound shot. Costa then put the result beyond doubt, drilling the ball into the net from just inside his opponent's half in the 32nd minute. So thrilling was the shot that Ronaldinho rushed to hug his compatriot and celebrate, samba style, of course.
 
