PUDUCHERRY: Lt governor   said the   (GSDP) and   of the Union territory of   have increased in the last financial year.

 Delivering the customary address to the  , which convened on May 16 for the budget session, Bedi said the GSDP recorded 11.4% increase while the per capita income showed a growth rate of 10.6% in the last fiscal.
 
 “The GSDP is one of the major indicators for determining the overall State’s economy. The GSDP of the Union territory has been estimated at Rs 29,557.38 crore for 2016-17, which is 11.4% higher than the previous year figure of Rs 26,533.46 crore. The per capita income of Puducherry increased from Rs 1,72,143 for the year 2015-16 to Rs 1,90,384 for year 2016-17 showing a growth rate of 10.6%,” she said.
 
 Bedi said the government spent 93.8% of the total outlay of the last fiscal. “The government has incurred expenditure to the tune of Rs 6,144 crore, which is 93.8% of the total outlay of Rs 6,550 crore. I am happy to inform the honourable members that this amount when compared to previous year was spent more for the implementation of welfare schemes,” she said. The reduction in expenditure is mainly because of shortfall in Union territory’s own resources due to factors beyond control and non-receipt of expected additional grant from the centre towards implementation of the seventh central pay commission, she said.
 
 She expressed optimism that the rollout of Goods and services tax (GST) and promotion of digital (cashless) transaction would pave way for a robust economic growth. She said she was happy to note that commercial taxes department has achieved revenue collection of Rs 1,576.48 crore as against the target of Rs 1,575 crore, which is 9.55% more when compared to the last year’s (2015-16) revenue collection of Rs 1,439 crore.
 
 Bedi said the government has taken all preliminary measures to encourage setting up of private universities to cater to the needs of students for pursuing higher studies and to increase employment opportunities. Stating that the Union government has recently allotted 53MW of additional power from NLC India Limited, she said 4.24MW power was already allotted to the Union territory.
 
 The Union territory’s installed capacity of solar power plant has gone up to 230.5KW with the commissioning of a 45KW-rooftop solar power plant by the French Consulate, which has been synchronized with the grid of the electricity department.
 
 Bedi said the government has approved 114 common service centres (CSCs) at new locations. Currently, there are 82 CSCs extending services like issue of birth and death certificates and patta and settlement copies. The public can obtain copies of field measurement books (FMBs) from CSCs as the survey department had digitized field maps and uploaded the computerized land details in its website. The government has also launched 72 services of 11 line departments under the e-district project.
 
 The government with the assistance of National informatics centre will develop a software for registration and renewal of shops and establishments. The employment exchange has launched online enrolment of Class 10 and Class 12 students.
 
 Bedi said the government has committed to continuously improve the quality of life of the people and accord due importance for infrastructure development in all regions. “Due importance will be given both for agriculture and industrial sectors in a balanced manner by suitably supporting them. More priority will be given for capital expenditure without affecting the continuing welfare schemes. The aspiration of my government is to achieve the broad vision of all round development for the betterment of the people for living in a safe, clean, healthy and peaceful environment,” Bedi said.
 
 
