BENGALURU: Mani Ashwin, 18, can’t wait to get his finger inked. The engineering student, who will exercise his franchise for the first time when   goes to polls in 2018, is among the six youngsters who were handed over their voter IDs by governor   on Wednesday. “I am thrilled. We are the citizens of tomorrow and voting is as much our duty as it is our right,” said Mani, a student of Global Academy of Technology, Rajarajeshwari Nagar.

 The six youngsters became ambassadors for this year’s National Voters’ Day event, themed on celebrating young and first-time voters. Nearly 7.35 lakh   have been added to Karnataka’s electoral list, taking the total number to 4.88 crore. This means nearly five crore people are eligible to vote in the 2018 assembly elections. 
 
 “Around 72% of the state’s population will vote next year,” said chief electoral officer, Anil Kumar Jha. “We have added 7.35 lakh new voters to the list and have decided to delete nearly 3.15 lakh. The gender ratio is 968 females per 1000 males.”
 
 Adding that this year’s focus is on encouraging more youngsters to vote, he said: “They are the responsible citizens of the future and their participation is vital for the nation’s progress.”
 
 The event saw poll booth officers being awarded for their contribution towards gathering data and creating awareness among voters in the wards assigned to them. “This is the second time that I have received the award. The work is very tiring but we know that it is for the country’s welfare. Initially, I faced hiccups but now I’m used to it,” said Kousar Taj, a schoolteacher who has been working for the past 18 years to ensure the citizens of her ward participate in elections.
 
 “Every citizen thinks of his/her rights. But few think of their duties,” said Vala. Speaking about women’s participation, he said: “India is on top in terms of women’s contribution to development. Across institutions, there are more women graduating with medals and accolades than men. However, despite the talent, they get few opportunities. This needs to change.”
 
 Choose NOTA, but vote
 
 Criticizing the goverment without having cast his/her vote is not a citizen’s right. Even if a voter decides to pick the NOTA option, he/she is exercising his duty in a very important manner 
 
 Vajubhai Vala, governor 
 
 A family tradition
 
 Anjum Taj, who is among the six young ambassadors, will cast her first vote from the Kengeri constituency next year. “Everyone in our family has voted in every election. We are proud that Anjum will carry on the tradition. It is important for everyone to understand the importance of voting,” said her mother Thaseem Taj.
 
