A 35-year-old lawyer from Navi Mumbai has alleged that a   at   station abused and molested her while she was trying to retrieve a bag she had forgotten on train.

 Kamothe resident Leela Malu, who practices at the Bombay High Court, said in her complaint that when she reached Panvel station around 11 pm Saturday to collect her bag, which contained anticipatory bail applications of her clients among other documents, she was misguided and sent to a wrong office, at the other end of the station, by a few motormen and guards.
 
 Malu, who is physically challenged (she doesn't have an arm), said that a huge ruckus broke out when she confronted the motormen and the guards, after which she was molested, and her character was questioned because she was accompanied by a male friend. The railwaymen against whom a complaint has been filed have been identified as motorman RS Ramchandra and guard Abhay Patil. They have been booked under the Indian Penal Code sections 354 (outraging a woman's modesty), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 147 (rioting). In a cross-complaint, Patil accused the woman of unruly behaviour.He told the Panvel Government Railway Police (GRP), who are probing the incident, that Malu abused him and his colleagues, and “scratched“ their faces and arms “with her nails“ when they asked her to approach the station master to collect her bag. The Panvel GRP said Malu has also been booked under the Indian Penal Code sections 323, 325 (causing grievous hurt), and 504.
 
 Speaking to Mirror on Sunday, Malu said she was so disgusted by the incident that she thought of quitting her practice. “I got off at Juinagar station around 7 pm on Saturday, and realised I had forgotten my bag on train. It contained important, work-related documents and I called up the GRP helpline to inform them about the same. I rushed home as my phone had been switched off, and called up the GRP who said they have found the bag, and that I should collect it from Panvel,“ she said.
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 She further said that her client meetings ended only past 10 pm and she went to the station with a family friend, Prakash Solanki, and approached an office where a few men had assembled. “It turned out to be a restroom for motormen and guards, and they directed me to platform number five, from where long-distance trains leave. The railway official there said someone was playing a prank on me by directing me to his office. I went back to the motormen's restroom and demanded that they provide me with correct directions, and they flew into a rage,“ she alleged.
 
 She claimed that in the middle of the argument, one of the men jabbed her in the chest, while a few others forced her friend inside the restroom and assaulted him. She also said a few of the men were drunk. “My friend was grabbed by his shirt and dragged inside. They said things such as `we know what kind of a woman you are, roaming around with a man at this hour'. This is the state of the society we live in, these are the words they use to describe a woman,“ she said. Malu alleged that she was made to wait at Panvel GRP office till 5 am to file the complaint. “The railway cops were most reluctant to take action,“ she said.
 
 Senior Inspector Chauhan from the Panvel GRP confirmed the crosscomplaints have been filed, even as Abhay Patil told Mumbai Mirror a departmental inquiry had been ordered and that he would not like to speak about the incident. Senior Central Railway officials, including the divisional railway manager, refused to comment on the matter.
 
