NEW DELHI: Work on an   on  , which is part of the parallel RTR flyover project, has been lumbering on due to the delay in the shifting of nine high-tension wires. 

 These cables power a railway traction substation on San Martin Marg. But while Northern Railway claims the cables belong to BSES, the discom contests the claim. 
 
 For the past 1.5 years, PWD officials have been trying to get the cables shifted. “But till date, there is no clarity on the matter. BSES has given to us in writing that the cables don’t belong to them. We have approached Northern Railway officials, including their principal chief engineer. But we are not getting any clear answer,” said a senior PWD official.
 
 Going by the plan, PWD has to construct an underpass from   to San Martin Marg and Ring Road. With   police saying that the nod to dig a tunnel on   would be given only after work on the flyover is over, PWD has been constructing the approach to the tunnel on Benito Juarez Marg and San Martin Marg.
 
 The cables are located right in the middle of a 300-metre stretch on San Martin Marg. “Now the basic construction work on both the ends is nearing completion. We need to complete the construction of this small stretch (which is less than 100 metres) else the project will get further delayed,” said a PWD official. 
 
  
  
 
 PWD officials said they have been aggressively pursuing the matter since last October. “We have written letters and held meetings with senior officials. But the matter is yet to be resolved. We have not even got the estimate for shifting these 220 KV cables,” said a PWD official. 
 
 Northern Railway contested PWD’s claims. “As per Delhi division's officers, no concrete proposal has been received by them and no officer of the state government has met them in this regard. BSES has to shift the cables. Northern Railway will extend all possible cooperation whenever a proposal is received,” said a senior official. 
 
 Another railway official said PWD was told to approach BSES to shift the cables.
 
 But a BSES spokesperson said, “These cables are maintained and used by Northern Railway. Their shifting too is under their purview. However, if the Railways need BSES’ assistance in shifting them, we will be happy to help.” 
 
 PWD officials said it’s a crucial project to de-congest Outer Ring Road and provide quick access to south and central Delhi from the airport. The project, which is being monitored by Delhi high court, is already running behind schedule, and any further delay would add to the cost burden. 
 
 
