PUNE: The   on Thursday granted conditional   to one more accused — Akash Ramesh Lashkare — in the Mohsin Shaikh   case, taking the total number of persons released on bail to 15.

 The main accused and Hindu Rashtra Sena (HRS) chief, Dhananjay Desai, is still in jail. His second bail application is posted for a hearing before the high court on March 3. The high court had rejected Desai’s first bail application on March 5, 2015.
 
 Lashkare was among the 21 suspects arrested by the Hadapsar police for allegedly murdering IT professional Mohsin Shaikh. The victim was attacked by a mob at Satav plot in Hadapsar around 9.15pm on June 2, 2014 during the violence in the city’s eastern suburb over an objectionable post on the social media.
 
 The attack was allegedly instigated by HRS chief Dhananjay Desai’s inflammatory speech given earlier. The murder trial before a sessions court in Pune is at the stage of framing of charges.
 
 Justice Revati Mohite-Dere of the high court ordered Lashkare’s release on bail against a personal release bond of Rs25,000 and one or two sureties in the like amount, his lawyer Satyam Nimbalkar told TOI.
 
 “The court directed him to report to the Hadpsar police station every Saturday and restrained his movement within the Hadapsar police jurisdiction,” said Nimbalkar.
 
 Lashkare was among the suspects arrested on June 3, 2014, a day after the incident, and was since lodged in the Yerawada central prison here. He moved the bail application pleading, among other things, that there was no direct evidence against him and the three eyewitnesses in the case had not pointed out any overt act or role played by him in the attack on Shaikh.
 
 The applicant pleaded that even one of the star witnesses — the person who was accompanying Shaikh at the time of the attack — did not identify him during the test identification parade. Moreover, the clothes and a wooden stump recovered from him had no blood stains, he pleaded.
 
 “The court has taken note of these arguments while ordering Lashkare’s release on bail and directing him to adhere to the bail conditions,” said Nimbalkar.
 
 The state has appointed lawyer Ujjwal Nikam as a special public prosecutor in the case and the police have filed a chargesheet against all the 21 accused. But the process of framing of charges, which marks the beginning of the trial, has been delayed due to some reason or the other.
 
