AURANGABAD: The Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar   University ( ) on Monday announced a colour code for the gowns of students attending the 57th convocation on May 30.

 The colour blue was allotted to students of the arts department, while science students will don saffron. For commerce students, brown has been designated for Commerce students, violet for engineering and green for law students. Those pursuing teachers’ training courses will be wearing yellow.
 
 Around 16,000 students will be get degrees, diplomas and Ph.Ds at the convocation ceremony.
 
 Bamu officials convened a special meeting to review convocation-related preparations on Monday. Former foreign secretary of India Nirupama  , a Bamu alumnus, will be the chief guest at the convocation. Rao, who had completed her master degree in English from Bamu in the early 70s, had visited her alma mater in June last year.
 
 “We have formed a total of 20 committees with 120 staffers to ensure that the convocation ceremony is held smoothly. The function will be well-planned and executed with utmost precision without any deviation in the minute-to-minute programme,” a Bamu official said.
 
 In 2015, Bamu revised the convocation’s duration from what it was of at least two-three hours to nearly one hour. The university authorities had watched the convocation ceremonies of some of the top universities from around the world on a video-sharing website to introduce reforms in the Bamu convocation process.
 
 A Bamu official said that a well-planned and executed convocation event is highly desirable considering presence of the large number of students. “Many students come from far and wide to attend the convocation ceremony and so proper arrangements should be put in place. Considering that the convocation is a once-in-a-lifetime event for students, we will ensure they can celebrate their passing out properly,” an official said.
 
 Bamu has jurisdiction over Aurangabad, Jalna, Beed and Osmanabad districts and students from these four districts of Marathwada will attend the May 30 event.
 
