ISLAMABAD: Military law experts in Pakistan said on Tuesday that   has 40 days to appeal against the death sentence given to him by the secret military court, even as defence minister   rejected India’s charge of the verdict amounting to pre-meditated murder.

 “There was nothing in the legal proceedings that was against the law,” the minister told lawmakers in the national assembly, adding, “The trial went on for three months in accordance with due process of law.”
 
 “We have done absolutely nothing that’s against the rules... but there’s premeditated murder going on even today in Kashmir,” Asif said, adding, “Pakistan will not grant any concessions to elements working against the security and the stability of the country, whether they’re operating from inside Pakistan or from outside it.”
 
 Earlier in the day, Colonel (retd)  , a military law expert, told reporters questioning him about Jadhav’s legal options, “If the appeal court upholds the FGCM verdict, Jadhav has the right to seek mercy from army chief and the president of Pakistan.” 
 
 He said Jadhav could approach the relevant high court if he believes that due process of law was not observed during the proceedings and his fundamental rights as an accused were ignored.
 
 Sartaj Aziz, foreign adviser to Pakistan PM  , had said in December last year that there wasn’t enough proof against Jadhav, but was shouted down saying that he couldn’t say anything on Jadhav’s death sentence.
 
 The judgment was a big surprise not only for Pakistani media outlets, but also for the civilian government headed by Sharif, who has often been criticized by leaders from opposition parties for not mentioning Jadhav’s name in any of his speech or statement since his arrest.
 
 Asif said Pakistan would use all constitutional force available against those acting against the sovereignty of the country. 
 
 “Soldiers and civilians of Pakistan have given sacrifices for this country and their sacrifices demand us to give a befitting reply to terrorists and those who aid and facilitate them,” he said.
 
