BENGALURU: In its centenary year, University   (UVCE) has reason to celebrate. But there's cause for discontent too. The institution, which will turn 100 on June 1, believes an autonomous status and the Centre for Excellence title are long overdue.
Set up in 1917, the institution has over 4,332 undergraduate, postgraduate and PhD students. However, it's grappling with a shortage of teaching staff, needed for existing and newly introduced PG courses.
 
 Alumni say it's time the 100-year-old UVCE, a constituent college of   got its due. Prabhakar Jeevan, an IT professional, said, 
 
 “There are so many new private colleges which get autonomy and a university status. How can a 100-year-old institution of repute be denied independent status? The government's attitude towards UVCE must change.“
 
 At present, there are 99 teachers on the rolls and 76 vacant positions. “This is an issue that can hamper the process of getting autonomy and accreditation from the National assessment and   (NAAC) or the   (NBA),“ said prof KR Venugopal, principal of the college. Delay in the sanctioning of funds at the right time has added to UVCE's troubles. In his developmental plan for UVCE which was also presented to the chief minister before the state budget, prof Venugopal said the institution's strength can be used to mitigate the possible threat of deteriorating quality . “We will soon build a mechanical block and the Visvesvaraya centenary block along with two other buildings. If the infrastructure is improved, we can seek accreditation for all UG and PG courses and establish UVCE as a centre for excellence. Autonomy is crucial as the true potential of our students is still not reaching far and wide,“ he said.
 
 Relocation proposal
 
 In 2016, the government proposed to shift the campus from the sprawling neighbourhood of Vidhana Soudha to Bangalore University's Jnanabharathi campus, where it would allot a 50-acre land for the building. However, students and faculty members have been opposing the move, saying the campus doesn't require a bigger land but better infrastructure.
 
 The proposa l also came up after the government decided to trifurcate Bangalore Uni versity and shift UVCE to the Jnanabharati campus instead of handing over its charge to Central University (Central College). While the civil engineering and architecture departments have been functioning on the Jnanabharati campus for long, UVCE houses the remaining engineering departments of computer science, electrical and electronics, electronics and communication, information science and mechanical.
 
 “We had the '92 electrical engineering batch's reunion last year. When we went to the campus, we were astounded to see nothing had improved.Even the nameplates outside faculty members offices were the same,“ said Shiva S, an alumnus.
 
 “The KR Circle campus is easier to reach from any part of the city; the Jnanabharathi campus isn't so accessible.Rather than shifting the building, it would be better to improve the existing campus so that its heritage can be preserved,“ said Rajini B, a student of the computer science department.
 
