CHENNAI:   was a rookie when he toured India with the Australia A side in 2015. He impressed many with his all-round show in the two unofficial Tests against India A and soon made his debut for Australia. The 28-year-old's watershed moment arrived earlier this year when he hit a 117-ball 146 in a losing cause for Australia against New Zealand in an ODI. That stupendous performance notwithstanding, Stoinis could only manage to play one more ODI before making way for others.

 On Tuesday, Stoinis served notice to the Aussie think-tank with his all-round performance that helped the side score a 103-run win over Board President's XI side at the MA Chidambaram Stadium here. Stoinis, who walked in with his side in some trouble at 158 for 4 in the 29th over, looked in good touch from the word go. He scored a free-flowing 76 off 60 deliveries with four fours and five sixes, and then returned to bowl a miserly spell of 4-0-13-1.
 
 Australia, who batted first, piled up 347-7 n their quota of 50 overs and then restricted the hosts to 244 in 48.2 overs. Apart from Stoinis, David Warner (64), skipper   (55) and Travis Head (65) also enjoyed a fruitful day with the bat. As far as the visitors' bowling goes, left-arm spinner Ashton Agar stood out with figures of 4 for 44.
 
 Stoinis gave credit to   he team's spin consultant -for the way his game has shaped up especially on subcontinent tracks. “I worked with Sriram during my first season in the Indian Premier League with Delhi Daredevils in 2015. I then had the opportunity to be associated with him during Australia A side's tour later that year. It was mostly about tightening my defence on subcontinent tracks and trying to trust that before going on to attack,” said Stoinis.
 
 Stoinis appeared to be at ease on Tuesday while defending. He looked competent even while striking the big blows. More important y, Stoinis could well be competing with the experienced   for the all-rounder's position in the side. However, Stoinis felt here could be a chance of both of them being part of the playing XI in the opening ODI against India on Sunday. “I am sure it is a good headache (for the team management). He Faulkner) absolutely dominated here during the series in 2013 and I remember watching it at home. We are different allrounders. He is more of a bowling all-rounder while I am more into batting. He is a left-arm pacer who adds a lot of different aspects to our bowling unit. I am no selector, but maybe there is room for both,” said Stoinis.
 
