Nagpur: Flayovers have failed to serve their basic purpose as a result of poor planning during construction. Railway station and Mehadibagh flyovers are the perfect examples of the same, said Vishrut Landge, associate professor, Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT). Landge was speaking at a session jointly organized by The Institution of Engineers (IE) and Janakrosh, an NGO, at IE Hall, North Ambazari Road to mark the Road Safety Week. Different ways to deal with the rising traffic congestion and road accidents in the city were discussed at the event. Landge was the key note speaker. Discussing the solutions to resolve the issue of flyovers, Landge said, “The flyovers in the city must be demolished. It will provide more space for the constructions of four lane roads, which will help in managing traffic congestion in the city.” Talking about the new schemes proposed by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to tackle traffic congestion, Mahesh Gupta, executive engineer, NMC and one of the chief guests said, “The use of public transport must be increased. Metro is arriving in the city and we are trying to provide the best services to the citizens. Eventually, as people feel confident about the public transport, traffic in the city will decline.”  He added that free parking services for the private vehicles must be provided as people prefer it that way. “Most of the single lanes of the roads are filled with parked vehicles,” he said.  Explaining NMC’s plan to resolve the issue, Gupta said,“ Under smart city project we will also be launching a mobile app for citizens to find parking places in the city.”  Ramnath Sonawane, additional commissioner, NMC and one of the chief guests said, “Traffic congestion is concern for everyone. We are trying to ensure safety of citizens.” Accidents will reduce if the citizens use the services properly, he added. Citizens who attended the session also shared many new ideas. Dilip Mase, president, IE, was present at the event. Ravi Kaskhedikar presented a vote of thanks.