BEGUSARAI: The   MP from Begusarai,  , and the party MLC, Rajneesh Kumar Singh, were at war on Tuesday after the latter was named an accused in a murder case in Parihara village under the same police outpost on Sunday. Rajneesh is also the BJP national secretary and the party chief whip in Bihar legislative council. He accused the MP of influencing the FIR to make him a named accused in the case.

 It all started after criminals shot dead   of Parihara when he had gone to feed his cattle at his farm on Sunday. The victim was the brother of Anil Kumar Dev, a local BJP man and also a former additional public prosecutor (APP) at Begusarai court. Anil’s wife Seema Devi is the mukhiya of local panchayat. Anil, in an FIR lodged with Parihara police outpost on Monday, accused eight persons for killing his brother. He alleged the assailants while escaping from the spot were taking the name of Rajneesh as their leader on whose order they committed the crime.
 
 Rajneesh said on Tuesday it was Bhola who ensured his name was falsely implicated in the case. “The MP visited the victim’s family on Monday and stayed there till my name was included in the FIR,” he alleged. “All this has been done to malign my image and harm my political career,” Rajneesh said. 
 
 “I nurture no political or personal enmity towards the victim’s family and have no pending issue with them,” he said. 
 
 When contacted, Bhola denied any role in the case. “Anil is a party worker and it was only out of courtesy that I visited his place after the murder of his brother,” he said. “However, Anil and his family have a long standing rivalry with the accused persons on several issues, including local body development scheme contracts. Anil had even intimated senior party leaders of the state about Rajneesh giving protection to the accused having criminal antecedents,” he said while blaming the party MLC for taking his name with a motive of tarnishing his political image.
 
 Reacting to Bhola’s allegations, Rajneesh threatened to lodge a defamatory suit against the MP if he failed to tender an unconditional apology in this regard.
 
 Begusarai SP   said a special team under Bakhri SDPO has been constituted to investigate the case.
 
