 is home to several professionals who work night shifts and also students who prefer studying in the dead of the night. And we all know that it’s not common to feel hungry while burning the 
  oil. Luckily, the city is replete with places that offer everything from a humble cup of tea to filling sandwiches, noodles and fresh fruit juice too. So popular are these eateries – some of which remain open all night – that even the cold winter has not reduced footfalls. If you too are looking to brave the cold and grab a quick bite, these are the places you should head to.

 
 
 
 Towards the extreme left of 56 Dukaan, lies a makeshift stall serving delicious sandwiches. Mukesh Badwania,the man behind the stall shares, “There are a number of BPOs within walking distance of 56 Dukaan. Many professionals from these offices come here for a snack post-
 . Our sandwiches are quite popular and are priced between `40 and `100.”
 Paritosh Verma, a regular at the stall who is working with a BPO shares, “Bonding and fighting over a piece of sandwich has become a daily routine. Amongst many cheese chutney sandwich and chocolate and malai club sandwich are my favourite.”
 
 
 
 
 The first   shop at the 56 Dukaan serves coffee till 
 . Umesh Chouhan the owner of the shop shares, “Ever since the temperature has dipped, more people have started coming for coffee in the night. Our coffee is priced at `20 and is loved by both youngsters and elderly people as well. We usually wind up by 
 , but if the crowd does not stop, we are open even till 
  
 sometimes.”
 
 
 
 
 The food truck serving instant noodles and pasta in LIG Square, is one of the most sought-after food trucks in the area. Rhythm Goyal, a class 12 student and a regular visitor at the food truck shares, “Our pre-board exams are going on and we do a lot of group studies and sleep overs. We have been frequently visiting this food truck in the wee hours since our exams have begun.”
 
 
 
 
 If all you are looking for is a nice cup of tea, Sarvate Bus Stand is the place for you. Amay Tiwari, a senior technical recruiter, shares, “I work from 
 . It becomes quite difficult for us to satiate hunger pangs during these odd hours and we usually head to a roadside stall at the bus stand. There’s also a pakoda wala near Vijay Nagar. Winters are all about teas, pakodas and braving the temperature.”
 
 
 
 
 This juice parlour stays open till 
  and is known for its exquisite juices and creams. Kunal Dhawan, the owner of the parlour shares, “Vijay Nagar has a lot of hostels. Many residents choose to hang out at our parlour post-
 . Sitafal and strawberry creams are our best sellers.”
