NEW DELHI: False claims about sanitation infrastructure and their usage to improve rankings in the   will cost municipal bodies dear. 

 If they are found to have misrepresented data on parameters such as number of toilets constructed and processing of waste, they stand not only to lose points, but could also get negative marks during the ranking of cities in the next   scheduled for January, 2018.
 
 The new ranking of cities will be decided based on citizens feedback and   unlike the last survey which relied more on self-declaration and documentation by municipalities. The next survey will cover 4,041 cities and towns with total population of 40 crore.
 
 Until now municipal documentation or self-declaration got a weightage of 45% while direct observation by independent assessor got 25% and citizens’ feedback was 30%. 
 
 Under the revised criteria, the weightage to municipalities documentation has been reduced to 35% while weightage for citizens’ feedback and independent assessors has been raised by 5% each.
 
 Housing and urban affairs minister   said the methodology and weightages for   have been modified based on extensive consultations with city and state governments, experts and stakeholders. “The aim is to make swachhta a people’s movement,” he said.
 
 “Though earlier we had provision for negative marks, but this time it has significantly been increased to ensure rigorous scrutiny of claims of cities. Under this, if claims of a city are found to be incorrect by independent assessors, they will get 33% negative marks besides zero marks in respect of such parameters,” said housing and urban affairs secretary Durga Shanker Mishra.
 
 He added the ministry has introduced the provision for rewarding innovative practices, which will get additional weightage of 5%.
 
 The survey will also assess availability of water connections to toilets, recovery of operation and maintenance costs of community and public toilets and other infrastructure. 
 
 It will take into account the liquid waste management.
 
