CHENNAI: Consultants appointed to prepare the detailed project report (DPR) for the city’s   (BRTS) are seeking public opinion to understand the priorities of  . The information will help shape the DPR as the state transport department makes slow progress in executing the proposed 96.7km bus transit network.

 Project consultant ICRA Management Consulting Services Limited (IMaCS) has hosted a Google Forms based survey on the Greater Chennai Corporation’s website. The survey form can be accessed from the ‘public notifications’ tab on the homepage. According officials of Pallavan Transport Consultancy Services (PTCS), IMaCS has completed two stages in the five-step process to compile a DPR.
 
 An inception report, which is the first step, has been submitted. The second stage, where an interim report is to be filed, too has been completed, officials said. The information gathered from the survey can be used by the consultants to conceptualise BRTS designs based on public opinion before they present the project to a larger section of the public at a meet of stakeholders.
 
 The survey hosted on the website asks the user to part with basic information before asking the participant to rate factors depending on satisfaction. Space and seating arrangements in the MTC service, behaviour of staff, ticket rates, amenities and overcrowd problem in MTC buses are a few factors on which the user satisfaction is ranked.
 
 Subsequently, the form asks users to rank priorities in order that would make them switch from private transport to the BRTS network. Participants can rank in order whether ticket cost, comfort of travel, connectivity between locations, frequency of service or faster travel is more important to them in a BRTS network. User opinion is also collected on how much Chennaiites would be willing to pay for a metro rail like experience on the BRTS network. Would they avoid BRTS if tickets cost in excess of Rs 40 or are they likely to travel if tickets are in the range of Rs 10 to Rs 20 are some of the questions that the survey asks users.
 
 In total, seven corridors have been proposed for the BRTS project. Among Koyambedu-Poonamallee, Koyambedu-Ambattur, Koyambedu-Madhavaram, Koyambedu-Saidapet, Saidapet-Siruseri, Saidapet-Tambaram and Thoraipakkam-Chromepet, the BRTS will have a minimum of 121 bus stations.
 
 IMaCS are way behind schedule in the preparation of DPR. The tender document had set a period of six months to compile DPR from the start of inception study. PTCS sources told TOI that the consultants have been laid back in their approach but that they expect the pace to pick up in the coming months. “We expect the DPR to be ready by end of July,” said a PTCS official.
 
