THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A village, which has grown accustomed to the sight of dog bite marks on human bodies, is now being inured to a much viler form of menace – dogs biting people to death. Nothing much has changed in this village since the death of an old woman awakened the entire state and a comprehensive stray dog management scheme was launched in September 2016.

 Data available with the primary health centre in   showed that 189   were recorded in the coastal hamlet over the past six months between November 2016 and April 2017. This case list also includes 40 kids.
 
  
  
 
 Repeated instances forced hospital authorities to keep a special register for dog bite cases from Pulluvila ward. Authorities said that kids were the most vulnerable lot among the group of victims and the type of injuries seen were category-III bites, which entailed high-risk wounds. Such patients require immediate vaccination and administration of rabies immunoglobulin. “A minimum of 15-20 cases are reported here each month. Most often we have to refer cases to the medical college or Neyyattinkara hospital,” said hospital sources.
 
 January recorded the highest number of dog bite cases over the last six months at Pulluvila. Forty nine cases were brought to hospital, 12 of them were injured kids. The villagers have lived with this menace for decades and authorities launched animal birth control (ABC) scheme after a victim died. While ABC takes a minimum of two to three years to bring about a dip in the number of stray dogs in the area, villagers are paying with their lives for the delay in implementing the scheme.
 
 Panchayat authorities are still clueless regarding the approximate number of stray dogs in the area. While health officials pegged the number at 200 dogs following the death of Siluvamma, the dog survey was not completed. The ABC programme was implemented twice at Pulluvila after December 2016. In the first phase, 77 dogs were sterilized at Neyyattinkara as part of district panchayat's initiative and 83 more were sterilized in a joint mission with People for Animals Forum (PFA).
 
 Karumkulam panchayat is yet to launch a sustained ABC programme for the place despite the increase in the number of stray dogs in the area. Bijesh S, the veterinarian who heads the ABC scheme for the panchayat, admitted that ABC took time to produce results. “We began a full-fledged ABC scheme only in January. We have had two drives so far. At present, a plan is being prepared and it needs to be approved by the district planning committee,” he said.
 
