CHENNAI: Why did J   affix her thumb impression on the nominations of three   candidates contesting bypolls during her hospitalisation? Were they genuine at all? When answers to these questions still remain unclear, the Madras high court has directed the appearance of principal secretary to the Election Commission of India (ECI) with relevant documents on October 6.

 Justice P Velmurugan passed the interim order on September 22, on an election petition moved by P Saravanan, DMK candidate for Tirupparangundram assembly constituency assailing the election of AIADMK candidate A K Bose.
 
 His primary allegation was that Jayalalithaa was not conscious to either sign or affix a thumb impression on the poll papers in her capacity as the general secretary of the party. He had contended that the thumb impression of Jayalalithaa had been obtained without her consent and knowledge, while she was unconscious with the connivance of the doctors who attended her.
 
 As the then supremo of AIADMK, Jayalalithaa has to sign election documents declaring the contestant as official party candidate and her consent to allot the party’s election symbol ‘two leaves’ to the candidate.
 
 It was to fulfil these conditions her thumb impression was obtained which was certified by a government doctor saying that Jayalalithaa who was undergoing treatment at the Apollo Hospitals, Chennai, had affixed her thumb impression in his presence.
 
 In his petition, Saravanan has also questioned the decision taken by the ECI to accept the left thumb impression of Jayalalithaa affixed on election documents filed in support of the nomination papers, which claimed Bose to be the official candidate of the AIADMK.
 
 “Doctors had illegally attested her left thumb impressions on Forms A and B of election documents. As per the attestation, Bose was allowed to contest under the two leaves symbol using the defective forms A and B which adversely affected my poll prospects,” he argued.
 
 During earlier hearings, the chief electoral officer for Tamil Nadu   and the   of the constituency   had appeared in court to make their submission as witnesses.
 
