JAIPUR: The crime branch of Jaipur police on Sunday arrested two persons in connection with shooting of an   near Shyam Nagar area on Friday morning. The driver succumbed to his injuries on Sunday afternoon. Addressing a press conference, additional commissioner of police (first) Prafull Kumar and deputy commissioner of police (crime branch) Vikas Pathak said two accused, Vivek Pandey and Krishna Gopal have been arrested in connection with the crime, whereas third accused Sanjeev was nabbed from Uttar Pradesh.

 “The trio wanted to loot a manufacturing firm in which they were working five months ago. To go ahead with their plans they needed a vehicle. They booked a cab from Uber and shot driver Nand Ram,” said Vikas Pathak.
 
 The police sent a high alert to state police control room soon after the shooting was reported. A massive search operation was launched across the city and barricades were set up in areas where the crime took place.
 
 Seeing the unprecedented police presence, the trio dumped the taxi near Mangiyawas and fled. “Based on technical information and ground intelligence reports, the crime branch zeroed in on three suspects, Vivek Pandey, Krishna Gopal and Sanjeev. Pandey and Gopal were arrested after interrogation, Sanjeev fled to Etawa in UP and was later caught,” Pathak told TOI.
 
 The   said that Nand Lal Gujar, who was rushed to   succumbed to his bullet injuries on Sunday afternoon.
 
 “The criminals had fired two shots at him; the first bullet missed Nand Lal and went through the car’s glass, another bullet hit his stomach and he fell down,” Pathak, who led the investigation team, told TOI.
 
 The sources within crime branch told TOI that trio was planning to rob the taxi and loot their former boss. “The trio’s real target was their former boss, they wanted to loot his house and flee the city, but got stuck in firing case and failed to get ahead with their plans,” Pathak.
 
 The duo is being interrogated by the police at Shyam Nagar police station while Sanjeev is being brought to Jaipur from Uttar Pradesh.
 
 
