NEW DELHI: The Income Tax department has claimed to have found that audit reports prepared by the   (AAP) for donations amounting to about Rs 27 crore are incorrect.

 In a report submitted to the  , the department, which has been investigating the 
  for the last over an year, has said that the records of donations made to the AAP during 2013-14 and 2014-15 had "factual discrepancies" and did not match with the actual funds received by it from various donors.
 
 Parties prepare audit reports, in consultation with their charted accountants, and submit a copy to the I-T department as per law.
 
 Officials said the alleged discrepancies in the donation records of party are of about Rs 27 crore and has added that the treasurer of the party has acknowledged "certain errors" in these records in their communication with the taxman.
 
 The I-T report, they said, has suggested that the violations are in contravention of tax laws that govern political donations as stipulated under the Income Tax Act, 1961.
 
 They said this could form the basis for the cancellation of the tax exemptions given under the I-T Act to AAP and could also follow a stringent action of de-registration of the party, but all such decisions are the domain of the Election Commission exclusively.
 
 Referring to the development, AAP's national convenor and Delhi Chief Minister   alleged that it was a "dirty trick" by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to get the AAP deregistered due to fear of loss in Punjab and Goa, which go to polls tomorrow.
 
 "Modiji's dirty tricks. Losing badly in Goa n Punjab, he tries to de-register the winning party 24 hrs before elections. Shameless dictator," he tweeted.
 
 The AAP is 
  , where it is faced with a triangular contest with Congress and incumbent SAD-BJP combine. 
  too, the AAP is hopeful of disturbing the ruling BJP's prospects.
 
 
 
 
 As the income tax audit report became public, Aam Aadmi Party's rebel MP Harinder Singh Khalsa demanded the party should be derecognised.
 
 "Yes, it will be a good thing. It's a party based on dishonesty and a party of frauds," Khalsa said when asked about his views. He is the Lok Sabha MP from Fatehgarh Sahib (SC seat) in Punjab.
 
 "Arvind Kejriwal punishes everybody, sometime he says he will do something to Narendra Modi sometime for somebody else. And he says these things in a very improper way. If he has the right to insult everybody, then he should also be punished if he has violated any law," the MP said.
 
 He alleged the party "indulges only in theatrics".
 
 "At the age of 67-68, I got duped by these people, these crooks, these AAP people. They are all frauds. I am ashamed that an educated man like me, at this age, influenced by their talks, joined their party.
 
 "I appeal to people to beware of them. They are dishonest. I wonder what they will do if they come to power," Khalsa said outside Parliament.
 
 
 
