HYDERABAD: India have moved into a position from where they can call the shots on the final day in the oneoff Test against   here.

 It was imperative that Kolhi's men roll over Bangladesh quickly in the first innings on the penultimate day if they entertained hopes of an emphatic victory . They did just that and in giving themselves a minimum of 125 overs to do it again, it put the hosts in a scenario where it is more a question of when than how for them. A target of 459 to win a Test has not been scaled before ­ 418 is the highest fourth innings total West Indies scored to defeat Australia in Antigua in 2003 -and even though Bangladesh have whittled down the required runs to 356 by finishing at 103 for three in their second innings on Sunday , it's going to be more than uphill for the visitors.
 
 The Sunday faithful of 23,377 got another chance to cheer for their heroes after good work by the Indian bowlers saw them dismiss Bangladesh for 388 ­ an addition of 66 runs to their overnight total in 23.5 overs ­ on a day when 11 wickets fell and referrals kept the umpires busy .
 
 
 
 
 
 Bhuvneshwar Kumar knows the wicket at the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium like the back of his hand. He's made the far end his own, unsettling batsmen with his clever mix, and seldom bowls from the other end at his IPL home of Sunrisers Hyderabad. His fourth delivery of the day cleaned up Mehedi Hasan for no addition to his overnight 51 and it was left to his skipper   to continue his defiance after umpire Joel Wilson rightly negated Ishant Sharma's appeal for a caught behind verdict that the Indians reviewed unsuccessfully .
 
 The Bangladesh skipper had copped a painful blow to his fingers on the third day , but was none the worse for it and survived a torrid initial burst from Bhuvneshwar and Umesh Yadav en route to his fifth Test century , the first Test ton by a Bangladesh captain on Indian soil.He was dismissive in his response to an Ishant Sharma short delivery that sailed over the fine leg fence, and was the last man out for 127 (381min, 262b, 16x4, 6x2), a carom ball enabling Ashwin to become the fastest to the 250-wicket milestone, while wicketkeeper Wriddhiman Saha took a smart catch off the blind spot.
 
 One over before lunch afforded India little chance to go berserk, but there was no mistaking their intention on resumption. Murali Vijay and KL Rahul perished in their quest for quick runs after umpire Marais Erasmus made sure that Taskin Ahmed had not overstepped, but Cheteshwar Pujara (54 n.o.) and Kohli (38) ensured runs came in a torrent during their 67-run partner ship for the third wicket (67b).
 
 Kohli fell trying to take Shakib Al Hasan out of the attack with the left-arm spinner having his man But Ajinkya Rahane (28; 31min, 35b 4x2, 6x1) and Ravindra Jadeja (16 n.o.) played little gems that helped Kohli declare at 159 for four at tea which meant Bangladesh had to bat for four sessions to save the match.
 
 Daunting at best of times, it only got worse for Bangladesh when Kohli got the review right after umpire Wilson had ruled against a bad pad verdict of Ashwin to see the back of Tamim Iqbal. His opening partner Soumya Sarkar fell soon to Jadeja and Mominul Haque was done in by Ashwin, and though Shakib came out guns blazing in his unbeaten 21, Bangladesh have their backs to the wall.
 
 
