Chennai: Against the backdrop of widespread rain in the state, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Thursday announced that   dam will be opened for cultivation of samba, the long term paddy crop from October 2. He also announced Rs41.15 crore samba package to farmers of Cauvery delta districts, for the second consecutive year, to encourage them to take up direct sowing.

 The announcement comes in the wake of excess rainfall recorded in the state during the current season. The meteorology department observatory registered 53.34cm rainfall as against the normal rainfall of 48.05cm until Thursday. The   level in Mettur stood at 88.29ft against its full level of 120 ft, with an inflow of 47,235 cusecs (cubic feet per second) being recorded by the public works department.
 
 “Given the water storage in Mettur and anticipating inflow from Karnataka reservoirs, and confident of normal north-east monsoon, I ordered release of water from the dam on October 2,” Palaniswami said in an official statement. In the wake of drought-like situation last year and deteriorating ground water table, the government would implement a samba package to benefit the farmers of Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and parts of Cuddalore Pudukkottai, Ariyalur, Trichy and Karur districts.
 
 “The farmers will get Rs500 per acre for sowing in five lakh acres. They will also get good quality seeds at Rs10 per kg as grant. About 4,500 metric tonne of quality seeds will be made available. A grant of Rs280 per acre will be extended for herbicides to remove weeds in 2.5 lakh acres and Rs75,000 each for 620 power tillers,” the chief minister said. The agriculture officials in the districts have been directed to store adequate quality seeds and fertilizers.
 
 “I request the famers of delta and non-delta region to avoid long-term paddy crops and opt for short and medium term crops for direct sowing,” Paaniswami said. The cooperative institutions and nationalized banks have been advised to extend sufficient crop loans. He exhorted farmers to enroll themselves in new crop insurance scheme, given the state’s share of premium is Rs522 crore for the current fiscal. In a history of sorts, the Tamil Nadu government has helped 5.63 lakh farmers get compensation of Rs1,762.45 crore under crop insurance scheme for the damage to crop last year. 
 
 
