LUCKNOW/BENGALURU: The Lucknow police's suggestion that   Anurag Tewari went for a   has not gone down well with the deceased official's family . “He was a   and read up to 2am. My brother never stepped out for a morning walk and something seems fishy,“ said his older brother Alok Tewari.

 “Senior officials in the civil supplies department in   kept harassing Tewari. His leave was not sanctioned and he was considering changing his cadre from Karnataka,“ he said.
 
 A senior officer in the food and civil supplies department denied allegations of harassment or scams but said Tewari had been “concerned with the working style in Bengaluru“ and wanted a sabbatical.Sources said Tewari had applied for leave 15 days ago but the request was cancelled by Karnataka chief secretary Subash Chandra Khuntia.
 
 Lucknow police said there were no CCTV cameras at the guesthouse and they are looking for a witness. A wound was found on Tewari's chin, and his lips were also cut. SSP Lucknow Deepak Kumar said a copy of the findings would be shared with the Karnataka government as the chief minister was monitoring the case.
 
 Tewari got divorced on March 1 this year after seven years of separation. “He was the youngest of my three sons and was selected for IAS in the first attempt. A year after his selection, he got married. His relations with his wife were strained and this year he got divorced,“ his father B N Tewari said.
 
 Police have kept Tewari's wallet, mobile phones, and clothes. Tewari's viscera has been preserved for examination and to rule out poisoning.
 
 Independent experts said more investigation was required. Dr Y K Pathak, former director of UP medico-legal cell, said, “All the organs in side the body were congested.A thorough probe is required as it can be caused by external poisoning, drug reaction, excessive consumption of alcohol or food poisoning.“
 
 Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah deputed two IAS officers Pankaj Kumar Pandey and Abhiram Shankar as official emissaries to find out the reasons for Tewari's death. Siddaramaiah said, “Tewari's death comes as a shock to me, for he was quite young. He served well in the state.“ Meanwhile, BJP MP Shobha Karandaje in a letter to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath demanded an inquiry. “I feel there is more than meets the eye to this episode,“ she said.
 
