Mumbai: Indicating a new trend,   and   are seeking an active voice in how companies utilise returns, as well as to nudge managements in the wake of financial inefficiencies and other issues. In case their concerns are not addressed, they are either pushing for representation on the board, or even its complete restructuring. While some pursue a legal remedy, others seek shareholder support for a seat on the board. 

 In the most recent instance, asset management company   is seeking a non-executive directorship on the board of power trading firm  . Earlier in July, asset management firm   pushed for a say in drug company Alembic’s decision-making process under the ‘small shareholder director’ provisions. Recently, using the legal route,  , together with   trusteeship, moved the   for the ouster of Religare Enterprises’ board for mismanagement and oppression of minority shareholders.
 
 In all three, it’s the funds that are driving the change, but soon other categories of investors could become active. Aggressive investors, coupled with wide-ranging regulatory changes (Bankruptcy Code, new Companies Act, etc) in India will eventually drive efficiency of capital, experts say. They add managements will need to step up, else they face the risk of getting knocked down.
 
 The underlying reason in seeking a board representation in both Unifi and Florintree is sub-optimal returns. The shares trade at a discount to what these fund managers perceive their intrinsic value to be. There are also obvious fixes that stare boards and managements in the face. “A seat on the board will foster meaningful discussion on such repairs, and should there be consensus on the proposed path, all shareholders — including the ‘promoters’ — will benefit,” shareholder proxy firm IiAS said in a note.
 
 Unifi identified the difference between Alembic’s share price and market value of the shares it holds in the company, while for Florintree it is PTC India’s inefficient capital structure that has resulted in sub-optimal returns since listing.
 
 In a major case of shareholder activism witnessed a couple of years ago, UK-based activist institutional investor Children’s Investment Fund, which was the second-biggest shareholder in state-run   with 1% stake, locked horns with the government in 2012 for controlling coal prices. This, it pointed out, was impacting the company’s profitability and shareholder value. After several failed attempts to safeguard “minority shareholder interest”, it exited the company two years later in 2014. 
 
 Says Shriram Subramanian, founder and MD of proxy firm  , “Now, minority/institutional shareholders can utilise various regulations like the Bankruptcy Code or provisions in the Companies Act to drive better financial returns or voice concerns of financial wrongdoings. But for the move to be impactful, involvement and support of other institutional investors like mutual funds (who are at times passive) will be crucial to achieve their objective.”
 
 Further shareholder activism could get a leg up with the government’s plans to come out with guidelines — the so-called stewardship code — on how institutional investors (MFs, pension funds, insurance companies and asset management firms) should vote on a company’s resolutions and make appropriate disclosures. At present, many institutional investors have a poor track record in voting — they abstain or support the management blindly, while some shy away from making appropriate disclosures.
 
 
