HYDERABAD: From a 15-yearold named a standby for the 1997 Women's World i Cup, to coming within a handshake of the 2017 title at  , it has been an incredible ride for Hyderabad's very own   Quiet, discerning and introvert are terms loosely used to describe the 34 year-old Indian captain, but early initiation is what steeled her resolve and saw her evolve into a matchwinner par excellence, a journey that's seen many highs and a few lows.

 For the uninitiated, Mithali was the youngest when she broke into the Indian team at 16. There were players twice as old as her and she had no one for company, which forced her into being a loner. “Although I'm an extrovert, the lack of company made me an introvert,“ she once told TOI.
 
 The side effects came in handy. “It also made me calmer and helped me analyse my game better. Over time, it also translated into patience.“
 
 And patience is a virtue she developed over 18 years of international cricket after the knocks she suffered early on. When she was named the standby for the   all the girls were accommodated in one big room of an educational institution in Kolkata. The last date of the camp was advanced suddenly and all the girls left for Delhi to play a benefit match for Diana Edulji.All of 15, Mithali was alone on campus for two days till her father Dorai Raj arrived.
 
 Another incident from 2002 highlights her fortitude.The Indian team was asked to report for a camp at Nehru Stadium in Delhi ahead of their tour of England in 2002.The news reached Mithali at short notice and but for a kind TTE, who was also a sportsperson, she would have travelled in an unreserved compartment.
 
 That TTE, however, relinquished charge midway and his replacement was not so kind. But for a kind passenger, who allowed her to share a berth with his daughter, Mithali would've been forced out kit bag. There was more misery on arrival in Delhi.
 
 With nothing arranged, she had to run from pillar to post before arrangements were made for her stay.
 
 Such was the life of women cricketers before 2006, when they came into BCCI fold and things improved not just for Mithali, but gave many other girls the freedom to pursue their dreams without fear of financial insecurity.
 
 The girl from Keyes High School needed no second invitation after being spotted by former   Jyothi Prasad, who referred her to the late Sampath, who as a coach was a stickler to the rule. “There was no doubt she looked more impressive than her brother even at a young age, but what struck me was her poise,“ Prasad told TOI.
 
 “But her greatness lies in the fact that she went through the grind and didn't let obstacles deter her from realising her dream. Not many can maintain that unwavering focus,“ he added.
 
 “My parents initiated me into this sport which people didn't really associate with a woman. A woman sportsperson with a big kit bag? She's got to be a hockey player. People didn't quite relate to women and cricket, much less a woman cricketer,“ she had told TOI before the World Cup qualifiers in 2017.
 
 “The sport has gone through a sea of change since I made my international debut. In terms of marketability, sponsorship,  , the turnaround has been gradual, but telling.Today, I am a contracted player. This was something I never thought possible at the start of my career.“
 
 Mithali, too, has progressed. With an aggregate of 6,190 runs in 186 ODIs and the second highest Test score of 214 that she scored against England in Taunton, Mithali is by far the best woman cricketer on the planet.
 
 She obliterated Charlotte Edwards' record of most runs in ODI during a league game against Australia in the World Cup. Though India lost that match, Mithali knew exactly what to tell her teammates if they were to improve on their runner-up finish in the 2005 World Cup. The message was not lost as India walloped New Zealand in a virtual quarterfinal and eliminated defending   in the semis in Derby, , but unfortunately for Mithali and India, the title once again proved so near, yet so far.
 
