GHAZIABAD: A group of men barged into the   in Ghaziabad on Thursday and allegedly threatened eateries inside not to serve non-vegetarian dishes during the ongoing  .

  The incident took place at around 7.45pm on the ground floor of the mall located on GT Road near Chaudhary Mod.
 
 The entire incident has been captured on CCTV cameras. The men, who were nearly a dozen in number, barged into the mall when it was teeming with visitors.
 
  They confronted the security staff on duty and asked them to prohibit eateries and restaurants from serving non-vegetarian stuff during the nine days of the festival.
 
 A number of popular eateries, including McDonald’s and Nazeer Foods are located on the ground floor of the mall. 
 
 Taken aback, visitors to the mall took to social media tweeting about the incident. “A bunch of guys in saffron attire enter McD, ask everyone to stop eating non veg! I’m shocked!,” said a tweet from the handle @CharulataB.
 
 Security staff at the mall said the men had arrived at the mall on Wednesday too.
 
  “They claimed to belong to some Hindu outfit. They asked us to come over to a corner on the ground floor of the mall and asked us not to permit eateries to serve non-vegetarian food. They did not misbehave with the security staff, nor did they assault us. We did not find anything in their behaviour that was worthy of reporting to police. However, the entire incident has been captured in closed circuit television cameras installed inside the mall premises,” the mall’s chief security officer, Ravish Tyagi, told TOI.
 
 The men also allegedly went inside a McDonald’s outlet located on the ground floor. “The men were ordinarily dressed. They came over to the counter and asked us to take off non-vegetarian dishes out of the menu for the next nine days. We assured them that we have taken cognizance of their demands and will decide on suspending non-vegetarian dishes from the menu. They were convinced and went away. However, they told us that they will return to cross-check if we are actually adhering to their directions or simply hoodwinking them,” Rajiv, a staff member, told TOI.
 
 No case had been registered till the time of filing this report.   said CCTV footage of the incident will be examined. 
 
 “We haven’t received any complaint regarding the incident so far. Action will be taken if we receive a formal complaint. Investigations will be conducted into it,” SP (city), Salmantaj Patil, told TOI.
 
