While international agencies have been pushing for packaged foods to help children with severe acute   (SAM), a recent study by doctors from  , Delhi and the Sitaram Bharatiya Institute has shown that almost a third of children with SAM recover with only nutritional counselling of parents and being referred to the nearest primary health centre. The study raised questions about the government's push for ready-to-use therapeutic food to address SAM.

 The study titled "Survival and recovery in severe malnutrition", published in the journal Indian Paediatrics, was carried out in two rural blocks of   district, an area having poor indicators of health and nutrition. It was meant to evaluate recovery and survival of severely wasted children without a community management of acute malnutrition (CMAM) programme. It found that even without such a programme, mortality among children with untreated SAM was low (1.2% to 2.7%) and there was long term recovery in 25-30% cases.
 
 An earlier study had shown that improvements due to intensive interventions with packaged foods were short-lived in India. Referring to this, Dr HPS Sachdev, the lead author of the latest study, said: “Our data suggests benefits of investing in community-based manage ment are overestimated."
 
 Half the households to which children with SAM belonged were headed by unemployed or unskilled labourers and a quarter by semi-skilled or skilled workers. Parental literacy was poor, with more than half (53%) the mothers being illiterate. It was found that children who younger than 18 months from families with lower category occupations or started from a poorer initial condition were more likely to die.
 
 “The results of this study raise concerns on the scaling up of CMAM with RUTFs (therapeutic foods) and calls for a clear policy for this problem,“ said Dr Arun Gupta, convenor of Nutrition Advocacy in Public interest (NAPi). He added that states should instead focus on investigation for the real numbers of SAM and mortality risks.
 
 According to the authors, prevailing perceptions of high mortality risks of untreated severely wasted children were drawn from studies that are 2 to 4 decades old.
 
 
