NAGPUR: Seventy-four-year-old  , a retired school peon, shows five notes of Rs10. He says this is the only valid currency left with him till pension is deposited in his account next month. With the mercury hovering around 43 degrees, Wankhede, a cancer patient, stood outside the RBI office on Wednesday, carrying his medical reports to substantiate his claim, along with the Rs6,500 in demonetised notes he wanted to exchange. Like many others, he was turned back.

 Since the last three days, nearly a thousand people have approached RBI every day to get old notes exchanged. Out of these 100-150 are NRIs or those having travelled abroad during the note ban period, who can avail the facility.
 
 Sources in RBI said even as the window has been closed for others since December-end, nearly 400 persons turn up with old notes daily. The majority have to be sent back. Among those coming here are many from nearby cities, even as far away as Hyderabad. Nagpur RBI is the among the five centres where old notes are still being accepted. From here, the money is directly credited to the person’s bank account.
 
 The crowd has increased since last three days, due to fake news circulating on   that the facility has been opened for general public from March 29 to 31. It could be because March 31 is the last date to deposit their old notes for those having gone abroad, said sources in RBI.
 
 On Wednesday, TOI came across a cross section of people, from farm labourers to small businessmen. Each one had a stock reason, the notes were accidentally forgotten and discovered only now at home.
 
 In her sixties, Sushelabai Namdeo, from   in Washim district, came with Rs40,000. A farm hand, she said it was the lifetime savings of the family. “My husband is crippled and bed-ridden. Just a few days ago, my husband, who can barely speak, pointed out that there is some cash lying at home,” she said. Sushelabai was accompanied by an apparently affluent farmer from the same village, who had another Rs40,000.
 
 Over 60-year-old Tai Temburne, also a farm labourer from Jalal Kheda village, around 100km from Nagpur, came with Rs6,500.
 
 Shaikh Khalil, a NRI from Hyderabad, also could not exchange his money. This was because the Rs40,000 he had kept at his home in India were not in his possession when he returned to India. An attestation of the custom officials about the cash carried at the time of entering India is required to exchange cash.
 
 The problem is acute for most people outside RBI. Wankhede told TOI he gets Rs7,000 a month as pension and hardly anything can be saved. “I had undergone a surgery for lung cancer four years ago, I was just rummaging through old papers and found Rs6,500 in the medicine bag. Those days, I had to make hectic trips to the hospitals and used to keep money ready in the bag. I may have forgotten this amount,” he says.
 
 Wankhede, who lives with his married daughter at  , says his pension is too less to take care of his needs and he is supported by his son-in-law. “The money could have brought some medicines at least. Let’s hope the RBI allows he exchange, or else we may have to forget about it,” said his wife Kanta Wankhede.
 
 
