CUTTACK: The   (NHRC) on Tuesday asked the state government to pay compensation of Rs 3 lakh to a youth, who lost both his hands after coming in contact with a live wire while working on maintenance of an electric pole in Jajpur district in 2014. 

 The NHRC, during its camp hearing in Bhubaneswar, directed chief secretary   to pay the compensation amount to the victim within six weeks and submit a compliance report.
 
 According to case details, the victim,  , 29, was working as a contractual employee for electricity distribution company   district. On June 24, 2014, there was heavy rainfall and thunderstorm in the area resulting in power supply disruption. After receiving complaints from consumers, Sahoo and another employee were sent to repair an electric pole for restoration of power supply to Dala village. 
 
 Both the electricians climbed the electric pole without any safety gear and even their safety was not ensured as the electricity feeder was live. While repairing the pole, Santosh came in contact with a live wire and received a strong electric shock. He was rescued and taken to   and Hospital here for treatment as his condition was quite critical. His both hands were badly burnt and hence in order to save his life, doctors had to amputate both his limbs. Seeking justice for Santosh, a human rights campaigner had moved the NHRC. The petitioner had alleged that Santosh was only earning member of his family and he lost his limbs due to negligence of authorities.
 
 On basis of his petition, NHRC had sought report from energy department. The department had asked chief electrical officer to probe the matter and submit a report. The chief electrical officer in his report had opined that there was gross negligence by by the Nesco authorities. The duty and responsibility protocol was not observed in the case by the Nesco, cited the report.
 
 "It is a clear case of human rights violation. Since Nesco is the distribution agency roped in by the state, the government is liable to pay compensation to the victim," said the petitioner, quoting NHRC order. 
 
 Adding to it, the NHRC advised the government that only licensed technicians should assist engineers and supervisors in operation and maintenance of transmission and distribution system and they should be given proper training about the safety measures.
 
