PANAJI: Goa needed a huge slick of luck to put it across 10-man   2-1 and steal a place in the semifinals of the   for the   at GMC Athletic Stadium, Bambolim, on Monday.
 
  Goa needed only a draw to finish second in Group A and confirm their place among the top four. But defending champions Services, who have won four of the last five editions of the Santosh Trophy, surged ahead in the eighth minute through Arjun Tudu and looked comfortable defending their lead. The hosts tried all its might, worked out different formations but it wasn’t until the sending off of Services captain Rary Raj that Goa found its feet.
  
  The numerical advantage for the last 23 minutes worked in Goa’s favour. The hosts first equalized through substitute Akeraj Martins (83rd minute) and then another substitute, Cajetan Martins, handed Goa the win with an 89th minute strike.
  
  Goa will now face group B winners Kerala in the second semifinal on Friday.
  
  Goa celebrated their qualification to the semifinal with a victory lap, their supporters lustily cheering them. But in truth, Goa survived by the skin of their teeth, and had it not been for the red card, it would have been curtains.
  
  Coach Mateus Costa made three changes to the side, including leaving injured captain Francis Fernandes on the bench. It didn’t seem to work as Services seized the initiative when Tudu took goalkeeper Bruno Colaco – Goa’s third in as many matches – by surprise with a snap shot from a difficult angle.
  
  Goa were on the verge of capitulating in the moments after Services took the lead, with the home fans exasperated by their lack of cohesiveness in midfield and sharpness in attack. Goa would have surely collapsed if the goalkeeper had not dived at Herojith Singh’s feet in a one-on-one situation to throw his team a lifeline.
  
  Goa tried but nothing worked. Young Aaren D’Silva came closest to scoring when he got at the right end of a through ball from Liston Colaco but his left-footed attempt sailed inches wide. Peter’s header was then cleared off the goalline.
  
  In the second session, Services should have killed the game as a contest but goalkeeper Bruno rescued Goa again, this time doing superbly to block Tudu from close range.
  
  Then, quite unexpectedly, Services captain Raj fouled Leander D’Cunha and his sending off swung the match in Goa’s favour. Services tried to defend in numbers with Ayush B grabbing attention but Goa eventually found a way. An overhead ball from Peter saw Akeraj keep his cool to lob the ball over the goalkeeper and then Cajetan calmed nerves as he controlled Akeraj’s through ball and finished in style.
  
  For all of Goa’s resolve, it were Services who threw this away.
