BENGALURU: The hands that lay the dead to rest in Bengaluru's 130 graveyards are finding it difficult to feed themselves. More than 230 gravediggers at the   haven't been paid for seven years after they rejected the civic body's move to switch their jobs from permanent to contractual ones.

 The gravediggers were earning a monthly salary of Rs 1,000 in 2009 when the BBMP proposed to bring them under an 11-month contract. Upset with the government's unilateral move, the gravediggers refused to sign the  . They haven't been paid since.
 
 The contract move was the last straw as the gravediggers do not have medical insurance, identity cards or PF. They are forced to make do with handouts from relatives of the dead. Most of them live on the burial grounds, bearing the stench of corpses and, sometimes, performing the last rites of unclaimed bodies.
 
 Anthony Daniel, now 62, was appointed a gravedigger in 1974. He continues to work despite not being paid or issu ed a retirement order. “We've been taking care of the dead. Don't we deserve a decent living,“ he asks.
 
 Gravedigging is a means of livelihood for at least 140 families. Most diggers have been working for generations and have appointment orders. In 2001, they used to get a monthly salary of Rs 500. “Our existence does not matter to the government. People remember us only when there is a death,“ says Nadan, who works at the CMH Road graveyard. The BBMP budget has sanctioned houses for gravediggers, but they remain on paper. There is no security at these graveyards, and gravediggers also work as guards,“ says A Suresh, an activist from  , a group fighting for the rights of gravediggers. During a recent mayoral inspection of graveyards, the protesting g ravediggers mimicked the dead and buried themselves in a pit.
 
 They are planning a similar protest near the CM's house, says Sowri Raj, a gravedigger at  .
 
 Many gravediggers are not on government records. Nagaraj, who works at the Ulsoor graveyard, says, “I don't have an appointment order. I wait for the government-appointed gravediggers to allot me work. Relatives of the dead sometimes give us money.“
 
