PARAUDI(SAMRALA): While the birthplace of   now has a library dedicated to his memory, those who wish to read his works here will have to wait. That is because the library is yet to get books, tables and chairs.

 “Construction of the library building is complete but we are awaiting books, tables, chairs and electricity supply. The building was constructed on land given by the panchayat measuring around 450 square feet.   provided funds for the library and Rs 4 lakh was spent on construction work. Villagers also contributed to the construction of the library-cum-memorial for Manto Sahab and did manual work. Now, only civil work left in the building is installation of bulbs and electricity supply,” said MP Ranjeet Singh.
 
 Village residents said they are eagerly waiting for the moment when the library becomes functional. “Even as the building is complete, we need his books and other infrastructure like book racks, chairs, tables and a library attendant. Manto Sahab was a great writer and we believe his birth place was our village so we need to read his work. A total of 50 children study in the school and most of them are also anxious to read his work”, said Ashwani Verma, a legal assistant from the village. 
 
 Village residents said they welcomed Manto’s daughters in the village a few years ago and now they want to see the library named after him. “Daughters of Manto Sahab came to the village after his birth anniversary celebrations in 2013 and they were really touched by the place and people. I am sure they will be even happier to know a library has been constructed in his name in the village,” said 63-year-old Amreek Singh.
 
 Meanwhile, members of the Lekhak Manch (writers forum), Samrala are elated about the library building finally coming up in the name of Saadat Hasan Manto at Paraudi.
 
 Daljit Shahi, former president, Lekhak Manch, said, “It is great that the village where Manto sahab was born has a librar. It is an honour for the writers. We are now trying to get chairs, tables and other requisite infrastructure”. 
 
 He said they have five volumes of Manto Sahab’s work and there are more than 20 books of Manto in various languages, including Punjabi, Urdu and English.
 
