HUBBALLI: The Chitradurga District Legal Services   of Chitradurga district court settled an accident case within 19 days of its occurrence, and declared compensation of Rs 1.14 crore through the Lok Adalat.

 The case, sorted out amicably through discussions between the petitioners and respondents in the presence of the principal district and sessions judge and other members of the legal services authority, is probably the first of its kind in the country.
 
 The National Insurance Company agreed to pay out Rs 1,14,35,000 to the victims’ families. As a token amount, the insurance company handed over a cheque for Rs 12 lakh to the Lok Adalat. 
 
 This case was solved and the compensation declared even before the chargesheet was filed by the police.
 
 On March 18, a serial accident involving four vehicles claimed the lives of 14 people and left 28 others injured at   of Molakalmuru taluk of Chitradurga district. Four vehicles were involved – a speeding truck rammed two autos and a Tempo Traveller.
 
 The injured were admitted to Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), Ballari. Rampura is a part of Chitradurga district, which is just 30km from   district headquarters.
 
 The case comes as a departure from the norm, where dependants of accident victims run from pillar to post to get compensation, and cases drag on for 2-3 years in courts, with hearings from both parties and witnesses.
 
 The Chitradurga Legal Services Authority set an example by solving the case within 19 days, and declaring compensation to all families. S B Vastramath, principal district and sessions judge, who is also chairman of the Authority, helped settle the case through dialogue.
 
 S R Dindalkoppa, senior civil judge and member secretary of the District Legal Services Authority, Chitradurga, said that after the accident, they collected details of the accident which appeared in a section of press, got detailed reports from the police station concerned, the tahsildar and hospitals. “We also got details of the victims’ legal heirs and took up the case under the alternative dispute resolution system through the Lok Adalat,” he said. 
 
 After facts and documents were verified, the insurance company agreed to give compensation, which was accepted by the victims’ families. The company, which gave a token amount, will give the remaining compensation in the next few days. 
 
 Compensation will be disbursed to some families on Saturday, Dindalkoppa said.
 
 
