We have heard about pets being lost, kidnapped and running out of their houses. While putting up posters on walls still works, pet owners these days take to online platforms, which allow them to reach a wider audience and make the search easier. Social media is, in fact, increasingly becoming the new poster destination for finding pets.  , who lost her dog August and found him after a 12-day ordeal, shares her experience with us.

 I can never forget the day August decided to venture out on his own (read run away) – to teach me some important lessons. I remember being distraught, walking around the neighbourhood calling out his name, hoping he would run towards me. Clearly, that did not happen.
 
  I needed eyes to look for him and voices to call his name. It started with a Facebook status with various pictures of August, asking them to join me in the search, connect me to locals, their WhatsApp groups and community groups to spread the word. Here, the most stressful, sleepless and tiring twelve days of 'Finding August' commenced.
 
  
  
 
  
 
 I followed the leads and directions provided to me by the people who saw August escape. We propped onto scooters and cycles calling out his name. But my searches usually ended in cold leads.
 
 
  A lot of people on Facebook were connecting me to Dog Communicators. Being distressed, I spoke with some even though the cynic in me didn't want to speak to one.
 
  On the fourth night, I received a call at 1am that August was found. With a friend, I rushed to Neb Sarai from  . But what I found there was not August, but a look alike. The dog looked visibly distressed and was in tears at being fed, hugged and touched. 
 
  On the sixth day, I got a call from someone who had seen August at PVR Anupam   market. She confirmed it was him – the coat was dirty but with the same words, he looked gaunt and was being chased away by other  . Up went another status about him being in Saket. More posters got printed, and more people called in. 
 
  
  
 
  I was told the natural instinct of a dog is to go back home and the spotting in Saket made me feel that maybe he was trying to get to the Malviya Nagar apartment. The next day, we began combing the entire area. That evening, my friend, Karan called and screamed that he found August. I couldn't stop yay-ing that he was found! But it was again a look-alike, who jumped out of the car and vanished. I didn't know what to say or do. I later found the dog and dropped her with the help of Divya Parthsarthy, a dog feeder who knew August was missing. She guided us to the right parents of this dog. We thought of Karma as I said aloud, ‘Kaash someone gets me my August like that too’. Little did I know that it would be her who would find August for me! 
 
  
  (L)A shot from the notice put up by Megha on social media when August went missing and (R) A shot from the status when August was found
  
 
  
 
 On Saturday, the second last day of the search while we were was going around Saket to Sainik Farms, we got two leads – a doctor from   had the CCTV footage of August and another call of him being seen by the Dog Ashram folks. I believed it was him only when I saw the video of him. His thin frame, uptight ears and a sprightly walk and an attempt to open the doors gave me tears of joy. This was a much needed assurance that he was around and trying to get home. 
 
  That night we announced a cash prize of Rs 10,000 on him. But we got a lot of hoax calls after that. By the time I got home, my phone battery had died. But, as soon as I put it on charge I got another call from Divya saying she had August. 
 
  I was convinced it won’t be him so I asked for pictures. But it was him! The ten minutes of auto ride to Saket was probably the longest of my life and the joy of seeing him unparalleled. He was all bones and I was scared to touch him. I cried and laughed, together. 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
