AZAMGARH: In the   there's unease in the air. Rival parties shout slogans.  , harried citizens jostle past police checks.High-pitched   this election is dividing hearts and minds. “It isn't just this election,“ says Rajesh Misra, mahant of Bada Ganesh Mandir here. “Since 1992 it's become difficult for us to live together. The Muzaffarnagar riots created a tense mahaul. Our blood boils when we hear of the Hindus exodus from Kairana.“

 At the over 100-year-old Shibli Academy , research fellow Umar Siddique says Muslims have more reason to fear. “The words politicians use for Muslims terrify us,“ he says. At Chowk Sadarwati, Bajrang Dal and VHP activists say Hindu anger is rising because of Muslim appeasement by the administration in Azamgarh, Mulayam Singh Yadav's LS seat. “Privileges for Muslims must end,“ says Ram Krishna, VHP working president in Azamgarh. “Unless the administration becomes even-handed, there'll be counter-reaction from Hindus.“
 
 But Siddique says: “We were born here, our ancestors are buried here. This is our homeland.
 
 So many maulanas were mar tyred in 1857.“ As politicians ratchet up communal rhetoric, an abyss has opened up between minority fears and majority prejudice.
 
 “After Gujarat, UP is the new Hin dutva lab,“ says Mohammed Arif, a former Banaras Hindu University (BHU) professor. “Kabir, Premchand, Nirala are being eased out of curricula. At BHU they once tried to do away with courses on medieval Indian history .“
 
 Arif, also a civil society activist, says the number of RSS shakhas has grown exponentially in UP . “The decline of secular parties has left Muslims vulnerable,“ Siddique agrees.The speeches of Yogi Adityanath, where he spoke of slapping (“do ta macha“) Muslims and PM Narendra Modi's comments on unequal sums for shamshaan and kabristan are matched by SP's Abu Azmi, who ranted recently: “Modi should be sent to the slaughterhouse because of demonetisation“. But Muslims feel they aren't as shrill. “Muslim politicians' speeches are less virulent than Hindus',“ says Siddique.
 
 “Want to live in India? Respect India's laws,“ says the mahant, Rajesh Misra. “Because of the triple talaq issue, many Muslim women want to vote BJP“. Rising orthodoxy among Muslims, he believes, is the root cause of tensions.
 
 “The priority of the SP government isn't Yadavs. It's Muslims,“ says Dr Triveni Duttji, VHP district president. “ Azamgarh Hindus have never been aggressive, now we are being pushed too hard.“
 
 Arif believes a biased media adds to the problem. “The only thing that gives us hope is that so many liberal Hindus fight for us,“ he says. “The day they disappear, we'll have to live like second-class citizens.“
 
 Gayas Ashad Khan, principal of Azamgarh's Shibli College, says the polarisation this time is politically manufactured. “Everyone understands the game, but society gets di vided into hostile camps. Badmaash people on both sides take advantage.“
 
 Hindus believe the PM is right in flagging their concerns. “Where are Hindus supposed to burn their dead,“ asks Duttji. “We don't get space near rivers, we aren't given cremation grounds. Why was Rs 300 crore given for burial grounds?“ Yet, UP has had a composite her itage. Arif says his mother wore `mota (thick) sindoor'. In his vil lage, `gur' (jaggery) was sent from Muslim homes for Hindu festivals. His wife stopped wearing sindoor saying: “Hum logo mein yehi nahi chalta.“
 
 “I was shocked at how the sense of separateness is growing in both communities,“ says Arif. Among Azamgarh's 10 assembly seats, the face-off in Phoolpur Pawai between BJP's Arun Yadav and BSP's Abul Qais Azmi is a straight Hindu-Mus lim battle. It's a pattern repeating in many seats. “ As a result, none is even bothered about the terrible Azam garh roads,“ says Siddique.
 
 Religious identities have begun to surface here. While SP and BSP fight for Azamgarh's 15% Muslim votes, it's the counter polarisation among caste Hindus, especially most backward castes, that could prove decisive.
 
