HYDERABAD: The sprawling campus of   stands a silent testimony to 'woman power' in the erstwhile princely state of Hyderabad. The huge chunk of land, on which the premier educational institution was constructed in late 1930s, belonged to a woman - courtesan-poet Mah Laqa Chanda. Incidentally, another seat of education - the board of intermediate education - is also located on land that was originally owned by Mah Laqa. 

 She was in the court of the Nizam II, Mir Nizam Ali Khan, a little over two centuries ago. The Nizam was so impressed by her bravery (she accompanied the Nizam II in three wars dressed as a man) and literary achievements that he granted her a vast landed property in the form of jagir. She died in 1824. She had donated her properties to homeless women. A century later, the Nizam VII, Mir Osman Ali Khan, acquired about 2500 acres of land in 1928 from the jagir of Maha Laqa Chanda at Adikmet-Tarnaka for construction of the   building of Osmania University. The new campus was inaugurated in December 1939. Till then, the university functioned from temporary campus in Basheerbagh. 
 
 "That two major institutions related to education - Osmania University and intermediate education regulatory body,   - owe their existence to a woman speaks volumes about the power and independence of women during the Asaf Jahi rule and the Qutub Shahi regime. 
 
 Many of Mah Laqa Chanda's ghazals revolved around the theme - bulbuls (nightingales). Incidentally, Bulbul-e-Hind (nightingale of India) Sarojini Naidu was closely associated with Hyderabad. The city produced a number of women leaders, who left behind indelible mark on its history. One of them was Dr Rupa Bai Furdoonji, world's first woman anaesthetist," said city historian and researcher Dr Mohammad Safiullah.
 
 The women's college was started in 1924, five years after the opening of Osmania University in 1918-19 at Basheerbagh. That women led from the front in the princely state is also evident from the fact that Hyderabad had the Bharat Mahila Samajam in 1907, Anjuman-e-Khwateen-e-Islam in 1913, Andhra Sodari Samajam in 1915 and Andhra Mahila Sabha in 1930. Some of the women movements were later inspired by Osmania University, Nizam College, and other educational institutions. Nizam's daughters-in-law, princess   and princess Niloufer, led women's movements, including the All-India Women's Conference. Princess Niloufer also established the prestigious hospital for children, named after her.
 
 The   launched research programme within a few years after opening of the Arts College building. According to OU documents, Prof Rafia Sultana is the first woman in India to receive PhD degree in Urdu. It was in 1957. To strengthen academic standards in OU , the Nizam sent a delegation headed by Syed Ross Masood, director of public instruction, to Japan to study the educational system for replication in Hyderabad. The report was submitted in 1923. Most of the recommendations were later implemented in OU, said Dr Safiullah.
 
