HYDERABAD: The Hyderabad III district Consumer Disputes Redressal forum has directed a private educational consultancy to return 9 lakh and pay 1.5 lakh as   who wanted to get admission into a  . The firm had taken the   even before the woman got admission and before a visa was granted. 

 On 13 October 2013, Dr Brahmani D entered into an agreement with   in Hyderabad after the firm promised to assist her in getting admission for a post-graduation course in dermatology in Germany. The firm promised to assist her in all stages of the process including getting an invitation letter from the college to a package deal for accommodation. 
 
 She was initially told the expenses for the entire course would be around 13 lakh and she would additionally have to show a bank balance of 8, 400 Euros for the visa. While entering into the deal, Brahmani paid up 13.55 lakh of which the consultancy re-transferred 1 lakh on 24 February 2014. The reason for the transfer was not known. 
 
 Brahmani's visa application was submitted on 18 March 2014, with all the requisite documents, however, it was rejected on 9 May 2014. 
 
 As she could no longer go to Germany, she requested the consultancy for a refund after which it issued four post-dated cheques for 12.39 lakh. Due to insufficient funds, the cheques bounced. When she informed the consultancy about the same, it paid 3.5 lakh in cash and issued another three cheques for remaining 9 lakh. These cheques were again dishonoured for want of funds. 
 
 After repeated requests for the money failed to yield results, Brahmani filed a complaint alleging unfair trade practice and deficiency in service. The opposite parties were served a notice of appearance but since failed to appear before the forum. "When the visa of the complainant was rejected, the opposite parties ought to have refunded the amount paid after deducting their processing charges. Having failed to do so, the act of the opposite parties constitutes a deficiency of service. They are also liable for unfair trade practice for having received the entire course fee even before obtaining admission and visa for Germany," the bench said in the judgment given on January 5, 2017.
 
