GURUGRAM: There is a new twist in the case of alleged   and   against  , the son of former Gurgaon deputy commissioner R P Bhardwaj. 

 Along with the multiple allegations of harassment, there is now allegation of dowry demand. Ajay’s first wife, Neeraj Bhardwaj, flew in from Germany along with her father, to support accuser   Bhardwaj in her struggle for justice.
 
 Neeraj is already fighting several cases against the Bhardwaj family, including one involving Section 420 (cheating) of the IPC, for allegedly forging her documents to claim her insurance money, Section 498A(husband or relative of husband subjecting a woman to cruelty) and Section 494 (marrying again during lifetime of husband or wife), in a Dwarka court. She said she was threatened to withdraw the case and forced to flee the country. 
 
 Neeraj said the Bhardwaj family harassed her for dowry on multiple occasions. She also alleged the Bhardwaj family also forged her signature on a fake marriage certificate, to withdraw an insurance claim in her name. She had got married to Ajay in December 2005, but was forced to leave the country in 2008.
 
 Neeraj’s father, R K Vashisht, said his daughter was subjected to harassment by Ajay’s family on various occasions. Eventually, he went ahead and got married to another woman without divorcing his daughter. “Neeraj was beaten and harassed by the family, which abused her as “uneducated”. They kept sending her home to fetch more dowry, and threatened to get Ajay married to another woman when we stopped paying,” he said.
 
 Neeraj said she saw a clip on YouTube of Jyotsna having to undergo the same ordeal, and decided to come back to fight back. She said she was shocked to see Bharti Arora supporting Ajay and his family, despite charges of rape against him. 
 
 Jyotsna Bhardwaj said Arora, the current IG (vigilance), has filed a fake FIR against her for trespassing Arora’s official residence to harass her. Arora denied any allegations of influencing the case to TOI. She said she filed the FIR against Jyotsna because she did actually trespass Arora’s official residence. Jyotsna also accused Bharti of trying to harass the cops who had arrested Ajay on one occasion, by opening a departmental enquiry against them. She said she has written to the chief minister about Arora’s transfer back to the city and various other allegations, but has not heard back from him.
 
 The Bhardwaj family could not be contacted for comment.
 
 
