THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   has registered a case in the   on the basis of a report by comptroller and auditor general (CAG) and not as per the original petition filed by  . 

 The first information report (FIR) by the agency submitted in the court on Saturday, accessed by TOI, shows Artech realtors managing director T S Asok as one of the accused. However, it has excluded   management representative Jayesh Sonoji and former managing director of Kerala Water Authority Ashok Kumar Singh. Both were accused in the petition by Achuthanandan.
 
 As per the report, the file related to the shifting of the pipeline at Pattoor was forwarded to the revenue department by the water department on July 26, 2013. It was returned almost after a year on June 23, 2014, after completing all the formalities of shifting of the pipeline.
 
  The report said it was clear from the file that the pipeline was shifted by violating Section 16 of Kerala Water Supply and Sewerage Act, 1986, which states all assets including sewerage services, sub-soil appertaining of the sewers or any pipes shall be vested with the KWA.
 
 "Thus it is clear that the decision to shift the pipeline was to circumvent the consistent stand taken by the water department, claiming the pipe was through puramboke land," it said.
 
 The report further said the then chief secretary E K Bharatbhushan and former CM Oommen Chandy kept the water department secretary and minister in the dark while taking a decision on a subject under the KWA. The hasty manner in which the realtors sorted out the issue with the top executives of the state, without protecting the interests of the KWA as well as the law, revealed the suspension of commission of offence by the accused under Prevention of Corruption Act as well as section 120(B) of IPC.
 
 "The original petitioner was Achuthanandan (on May 25, 2015). The vigilance had been maintaining that it could not register a case as another case was pending in Lok Ayuktha. Now, after receiving legal advice that there was no bar in registering a case, the agency registered one on based on the CAG report. This FIR, in fact, benefits the mall," said S Chandrasekharan Nair, counsel for Achuthanandan, said.
 
 On Thursday, the vigilance court asked the agency to probe the petition by Achuthanandan and file a report by April 24.
 
