MUMBAI: Prajyot Verma, a Thane resident and a corporate executive was in for a surprise after she got an offer from a three-star resort in Tarkarli to avail a 25% discount on room and food bills if her family members eligible for voting showed the mark of indelible ink on their fingers upon reaching the hotel. 

 Prajyot had called just to enquire for room availability ahead of the long weekend starting Mahashivratri. “I have booked two rooms for my family from Wednesday onwards since the offer is valid till 23rd,” she said. 
 
 Pradip Shetty of Hotels and Restaurants Association, Western India (HRAWI) said all hotels had instructed the booking staff about such the discount. “You call up a weekend resort or a hotel for room booking on February 21, 22 and 23, the receptionists are going to offer you a 25% discount and another 25% on their restaurant bills provided you show the voting mark on your finger," he said. 
 
 Ahar President Adarsh Shetty said over 8,000 bar and restaurant members in the city will put up special offers on menus besides offering freebies and discounts. “Customer will feel special that day. People come in groups to hotels on the voting day after exercising their franchise at the booths as they prefer to eat outside rather than going home. Most of our members have put up boards suggesting people to come after voting to avail all the special offers,” said Adarsh Shetty. 
 
 Prajyot said her offices at Andheri, BKC and Fort had already announced a half-day leave for employees so that they can vote. “This special initiative is to create voting awareness among tourists in the state. A meeting was held with hoteliers and restaurant associations, tour operators in the state and Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation incentive-scheme holders. The main aim is to ensure stakeholders' active participation to educate and spread information about the upcoming civic elections and in turn guarantee maximum voter turnout,” said an MTDC official.
 
 MTDC has already announced 25% discount on stay at its resorts only to customers who come after voting. 
 
 
