JAIPUR: Opposition leaders termed the Budget 2017-18 a “pendency Budget” for being a collection of past three annual Budgets’ promises that were still pending. 

 Leader of Opposition Rameshwar Dudi said, though it was presented on the International Women’s Day by a woman chief minister, the Budget had nothing to offer to the women.
 
 “Like past three Budgets, this one too is anti-women, anti-farmer, anti-youth and anti-minorities. It did not mention anything about new districts that the people had been demanding,” Dudi said, adding that big projects like oil refinery and Jaipur Metro were completely ignored. 
 
 “The BJP government would have done well if it had waived farmers’ loans and had taken measures to strengthen law and order,” he added.
 
 Congress whip Govind Singh Dotasra said, “The only jobs this budget offered were an announcement about recruiting 5,500 police constables. Not a single other job opportunity has been offered to the youth, who were lured with promise of 15 lakh jobs in 2013. There is no announcement about setting up any industry or business enterprise.”
 
 Dotasra said the present government’s sole aim was to sell off state properties like jail land, MLA Quarters land, Khasa-Kothi and power plants to private parties. “This was such a hopeless budget that even BJP MLAs were sleeping when the CM was presenting it,” the Congress whip said.
 
 Deputy leader of Opposition Ramesh Meena said, “Where are the investments that the CM was claiming after Resurgent Rajasthan? Why does she (Vasundhara Raje) not tell the people from where and at what rate of interest the so-called Rs 62,000 crore loan was taken for state Discoms?”
 
 
 
 
 In an unusual happening, chief minister Vasundhara Raje was twice interrupted by the Opposition members when she presenting the Budget on Wednesday. Both the times, it was Congress whip Govind Singh Dotasra who interrupted Raje. On the second occasion, the disturbances prompted speaker Kailash Meghwal to warn the Congress leader of eviction from the House if he did not behave. The speaker’s remark, in turn, drove leader of Opposition Rameshwar Dudi to object to the warning of eviction form house. Soon, other Congress members joined the chorus and the CM had to briefly stop her speech.
 
 “I objected because she (Raje) was eulogizing her government’s water schemes while comfortably ignoring the scams uncovered in PHED. Also, what the CM was trying to present as new initiatives were actually repetitions of announcements from past budgets,” Dotasra later told TOI.
 
 
