NEW DELHI: The   (RBI) has told the   that it expects the impact of   to ease with the “progressive” increase in the circulation of new currency notes and greater use of digital gateways. 

 The RBI also said the impact on the economy due to a dent in demand linked to “adverse wealth effects” will be limited. On being asked about the specific impact of demonetisation on the informal, small and medium scale enterprises sectors, RBI governor   said short run disruptions in cash intensive sectors like retail trade, hotels, restaurants and transportation will ebb with “progressive increase” in circulation in new notes. 
 
 It pointed out in written answers to the committee that in its monetary policy review, the RBI has cut its growth estimate for the economy to 7.1% in 2016-17 from its previous forecast of 7.6% growth. The bank has again reiterated that the government did not spring demonetisation on it and said the central bank and the Centre were in discussion about scrapping high value currency notes for “some months.” 
 
 “The matter was under discussion between the government and the RBI for some months, following which a proposal to withdraw the legal tender character of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes was placed before the RBI board in its meeting held on November 8, 2016 for consideration. The Board recommended the proposal to the government,” the RBI said. In reply to another question, the RBI said the arrangements for printing new notes of Rs 2,000 and Rs 500 had started “months back” and that “by the date of the announcement, a reasonable amount of new design notes had already been printed.” 
 
 The RBI also said that its board unanimously recommended demonetisation of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes. Asked why the minutes of the meeting was not uploaded on its website, the central bank said: “The RBI does not have the practice of uploading minutes of central board meetings on its website.” The central bank also said that despite limits on access to cash after the scrapping of high value notes there has been no generalised “price deflation” which means a generalised decline in prices. In a separate reply to the panel, the ministry of finance said no counterfeit currency notes were seized by agencies under the central board of excise and customs. Sources, however, said action against fake currency is mainly the domain of the CBI. Demonetisation was intended to render fake notes worthless.
 
