GAYA: Having been gambled away, Draupadi of the Mahabharat fame is said to have asked the elders, including Bhishma Pitamah, “Is woman a marketable commodity?”
 
  The query rendered the wise men speechless. Millenniums later, Draupadi appears to have got the answer — in the affirmative — with   DM   advising a man to sell his wife and construct a   with the money.
  
  The DM gave the advice during an awareness campaign on the harmful effects of open defecation in Jamhor panchayat of Aurangabad district on Sunday.
  
  “I am being quoted out of context,” rued the DM. Moreover, he claimed on Monday, it got instant public approval and the women present at the awareness camp took it very positively.
  
  To be fair to the DM, the video shows him telling the men in the audience that it is their responsibility how to take care of “ghar ki ijjat” as toilet at home protects the womenfolk from the prying eyes of antisocial elements.
  
  “Whatever be the context, the very fact that a woman was called a marketable commodity speaks of a chauvinistic mindset,” said  , director, women education,  .
  
  Pressed on the point of civility and good taste, the DM agreed that the words were not in good taste and he regretted having said those things.
  
  Enjoying a good reputation and known for his hard work, the 2010-batch IAS officer hailing from Lucknow, the seat of civilisation and ‘women first’ order, had his mobile phone making more than usual incoming noises on Monday after he courted controversy at Jamhor.
  
  An engineering grad with a management degree from IIM, Tanuj has two children, the second one being a baby girl born only a few weeks back. His wife Sonal, too, is an engineer by training and teaches in a local technical institute.
  
  Asked about the DM’s headline-making quote, Bihar government’s principal secretary (general administration department) Aamir Subhani said nothing of the sort had been brought to his notice.
  
  Facebook friends of the young bureaucrat also came to his rescue and, as per the ‘new norm’ of the ‘post-truth era’, blamed the media.
  
  Anurag Pratap, Ayush Verma, Chanchal Kumar and Marghoob Alam lauded Tanuj for his work in Aurangabad. The media is losing its own credibility, wrote Ranjan Singh in his FB post.
  
  Human sale, in any case, is not new to Aurangabad. According to former IAS official and researcher A K Biswas, a local zamindar through a registered sale deed sold his domestic help to a fellow zamindar in the 19th century AD. Not only the domestic help, as per the deed papers, his (domestic help’s) descendants too were placed under the obligation to serve the buyer and his descendants for 90 years.
