KOLKATA:   can't charge patients at will: this was one of the resolutions taken by The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) during its first meeting on Wednesday , when it made it clear that private hospital bills would come under scanner.

 Besides promising to tackle  , the panel went on to allay the fears of doctors that they might be discriminated against. Instead, the members said, medical negligence cases would be handled by the state medical council, the same way as earlier.
 
 The maiden meeting was chaired by panel vice-chairman Anil Verma, the principal secretary of consumer affairs department. Justice Ashim Kumar Roy was not present though acting Chief Justice of Calcutta HC Nishita Mhatre has given a nod for Roy to take over as the commission chairperson.
 
 Besides limiting hospital charges and carving out a standard operation procedure for private healthcare facilities, the panel will scan the quality of equipment and laboratories as well as keep a tab on doctors.The commission members, however, pointed out that the bil ling ceiling would not be unilateral across all private hospitals. Members will first consult the establishments before deciding on the cap, which would be based on a host of facilities, such as bed, treatment and tests. “Private hospitals are there to make profit. Having said that, hospitals can't go on raising charges. There is the need for putting a cap on the amounts. A decision will be taken after meeting hospitals,“ said a source on the commission, adding the purpose was to achieve a perfect balance between service and profit.
 
 Reassuring doctors fearing discrimination, the panel held they would monitor the health institute as a whole. “Complaints on medical negligence will be handled by the state medical council like earlier,“ said Verma, adding they would also look into the complaints of hospital vandalism.
 
 Asked if the panel would take up the old negligence cases, Verma said the health and family welfare department would decide on it. “The complaint is not before us now. It will depend on what the government wants,“ said Verma.
 
 Aggrieved patients and their families could lodge a complaint at the commission's office at Standard Insurance Building at BBD Bag; later, they can file online complaints once a website is launched.“We will start taking up cases once our office is ready,“ Verma said.
 
