BENGALURU: Some communities have been forced to adopt new languages; some have been unable to hand down their   to the next generation. India’s changing socio-economic landscape is blurring its diversity, and has forced the Centre to embark on a massive project of preserving 192 languages it has listed as endangered.

 The   (CIIL), Mysuru, has been entrusted with the mammoth task, under the Scheme for Protection and Preservation of Endangered Languages (SPPEL).
 
 In the first phase, researchers are documenting cultural and ethno-linguistic aspects of 117 mother tongues. Work on 68 languages is nearing completion, with more than 40 researchers — 16 from CIIL and 25 from other collaborating universities — at it. “Indigenous knowledge systems are being videographed. Creating digital maps with pronunciation of words, dictionaries, pictorial glossaries and a grammar sketch is part of the scheme,” said Sujoy Sarkar, coordinator, SPPEL. 
 
 That more than 96% of India speaks only the 22 scheduled languages has created a challenge of locating the remaining 3.4% of the population — most being tribals — which speaks such a large number of languages. 
 
 The Bharwad community in Gujarat, for example, is a scattered lot. Just 1,619 people speak the Bharwad language. “Lack of grazing land has forced them to split and travel in different directions. It is sad that a state that prides itself on its milk cooperative movement has left this traditional community in the lurch,” said renowned linguistics expert GN Devy.
 
 The Hakki-Pikki community in Karnataka, experts say, is stigmatized after its denotification for being a ‘criminal tribe’, forcing many of its members to shed their identities. More than 8,000 people speak the Hakki-Pikki language.
 
 Khash is spoken by the minority (numerically) Hindu population in the Sarsi-Daryan area of Jammu and Kashmir; their number is only 500. Kashmiri, the local tongue, has reduced its importance.
 
 Chinali, a language spoken on the banks of the Chenab river in Himachal Pradesh, faces a different problem. Most of its speakers are highly educated and several of them are in top government positions. Having joined the mainstream, they are forgetting their language. 
 
 
 
 
 All 192 languages — each spoken by less than 10,000 people — on the endangered list have different stories, and experts say the government has woken up a little too late.
 
 “I think the government is also responsible in some way. Beginning from 1971, India stopped listing languages spoken by less than 10,000 people in the census. This is an act of omission. We are officially telling people the languages don’t exist, which has forced many to claim a different language,” Devy said. 
 
 He added that the endeavour shouldn’t end with just documenting languages and creating a museum for them. “It should ensure people continue to speak them.”
 
 Sarkar said MHRD, which has funded the project, “is keen on enabling universities to take up these languages. Once we create enough material, the onus on how to keep these languages in use will depend on each state government.”
 
 
 
