NASHIK: The   results might not get affected this year as education minister Vinod Tawade on Wednesday assured the teachers that their long-pending demands will be fulfilled, thereby bringing the ‘slow work’   to an end.

 The junior college teachers had adopted a unique ‘slow work’ protest this year to substantiate their demands.
 
 The decision to end the protest was announced after a meeting between the office-bearers of the Maharashtra Rajya Kanishtha Mahavidyalayin Shikshak Mahasangh and an association of junior college teachers with education minister Vinod Tawade, finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar and principal secretaries of the education and finance departments of Maharashtra on Wednesday. 
 
 State general secretary of the association, Sanjay Shinde said that the education minister has given a written assurance on several demands. “Our prominent demand was to allot recruitment letters, recognition and standard salaries to the teachers who came in after 2012. For this, the state government will hold a special individual-level recognition camp between April 15 and 19 where the teachers recruited after May 2, 2012 will be given the letters and recognition,” said Shinde. 
 
 A group of 599 teachers recruited between 2003 and 2011 will also reap the benefits of this camp.
 
 The government has also decided to forward the proposal of an urgent recruitment to fill thousands of vacant posts in the state to the high-level committee.
 
 At the meeting, the education department agreed to restore the 42 days earned leave, an issue which was pending since 1999. Similarly, the teachers with higher degrees like M Phil and PhDs will also be provided facilities on the lines of senior college lecturers. 
 
 “The government is positive about implementing the Seventh Pay Commission after the Bakshi Panel report. On the similar lines, the retirement age will be advanced to 60 from the current age of 58 years,” said Shinde. 
 
 President of teachers association, Anil Deshmukh said, “A high-level review meeting will be held in May to review the progress. A principal-secretary level meeting is scheduled next week with the office-bearers of the association to discuss the implementation of the assurances.” 
 
 Over 72,000 junior college teachers, including 9,000 in the Nashik division will resume their paper evaluation work for the HSC examination now. Starting Wednesday, the teachers will check more papers to ensure that the HSC   are declared on time. “The state government has taken a timely and positive decision. We have ample of time to recover the lost period. I am sure that the members will deliver their work within the stipulated time,” said Shinde. 
 
