The   has severely criticised the railways over the quality of food served at stations and on trains, saying in many cases it is “unsuitable for human consumption”.

 Several Mumbaikars who travel by premium long-haul trains said rail officials often ignored complaints about the quality of meals after wrongly assuming that passengers were simply being picky. But CAG’s findings, which were tabled in Parliament on Friday, should give the officials some serious food for thought.
 
 The CAG audit covered 74 stations and 80 trains. It found that cleanliness and hygiene are not being maintained at catering units at terminuses and on trains.
 
 “Articles unsuitable for human consumption, contaminated foodstuff, recycled foodstuff, shelf life expired packaged and bottled items, unauthorised brands of water bottles are offered for sale at stations,” the report said.
 
 Kandivali resident Manish Chaudhary, 42, who often travels to Delhi, said the report was not surprising as he had never found the meals supplied by   (IRCTC) satisfactory.
 
 “Many times on Rajdhani and Shatabdi, chapattis are not made properly and the dal is served cold. If you are hungry, there’s no option but to eat the tasteless food,” he said.
 
 Amit Dwivedi, a 28-year-old radio jockey from Lokhandwala, is also a frequent traveller on premium express trains. “This one time we were served dal which was so watery that it cannot be called dal by any stretch of imagination. The dahi provided to passengers is always very sour,” he said.
 
 IRCTC supplies food for 39 longdistance trains originating from Mumbai. Its base kitchen in   provides meals for popular services such as Mumbai-Delhi Rajdhani Express and Duronto. The corporation also has food units at CST, Churchgate, Andheri, and Thane.
 
 While the CAG report does not specifically mention IRCTC, it says at some catering units, unpurified water straight from the tap was used in preparation of beverages; waste bins were not covered, and foodstuff was not protected from pests. The conditions were not better inside trains that the national auditor inspected: rats and cockroaches were found.
 
 Nirmal Jain, a businessman from Kalbadevi, said the railways should stop calling certain services as premium trains if they cannot improve the quality of food. “At times, the caterer increases the prices saying a new curry has been introduced, but it’s never good. It feels like passengers are being ripped off,” he said.
 
 Panvel resident Shishir Chauhan said despite the poor quality of food and cleanliness issues, people who cannot afford flights had no other option but to travel by trains. “It seems railway officials know we have no alternative and that is why they don’t care,” he said.
 
 The CAG also found that the food served at stations and on trains was less than the prescribed quantity. It said repeated policy changes had created uncertainty in the management of catering services provided to passengers over the years. “Due to frequent policy changes, Indian Railways could not take effective steps to bridge the gap to provide necessary infrastructure in terms of base kitchens, static catering units, trains side vending arrangements and automatic vending machines,” the report said.
 
 The CAG also slammed the railways over the use of gas burners in pantry vans of trains instead of electric power equipment.
 
 A senior railway official said IRCTC, under the directions of rail minister  , had taken initiatives to improve the quality of meals. “Catering has been a top priority for us and we have been pursuing a series of policy measures,” he said.
 
 The IRCTC spokesperson for western region, Pinakin Morawala, said the corporation had been ordering independent inspections to ensure quality. “Every year, third-party audits are conducted. Reports are independently submitted to IRCTC’s corporate office as well as the Railway Board,” he said. “We will make efforts to improve the food quality.” –With Agency Inputs
 
