Surla: South Asian   gold   Savita Fonde, a Dhangar from Tambdi Surla, watched from her window as the earth-moving machinery closed in to demolish her neighbour’s house. Her house will meet a similar fate in a few weeks. 

 Six dwellings of Dhangars, who belong to other backward class (OBC), on the fringes of Barabhumi high school, were demolished by government authorities at Surla on Thursday. 
 
 The demolition followed the government’s assurance to the high   of Bombay at Goa recently in the educational institution’s writ petition seeking removal of the alleged illegal structures.
 
 Savita’s cousin, Vanita, a member of the Goa junior tchoukball team that secured first place at the national event in 2014 at Punjab and third place in Mapusa in 2014-15, couldn’t escape her fate. She and her family have been rendered homeless, as the machinery flattened her thatched dwelling within a few minutes.
 
 Tchoukball appears to enjoy a status similar to that of the Dhangar community — waiting for recognition that popular sports enjoy. 
 
 “The Dhangar community should have been included as scheduled tribes along with Gavda, Kunbi and Velips (GKVP), but their fate hangs in the balance,” says lawyer and researcher in community issues, Gajendra Usgaonkar.
 
 Most Dhangar families which had their houses in two clusters on either side of the Barabhumi School in Maddlawada, Surla, since 1980s now face an uncertain future.
 
  “Six structures have been demolished, while there is a stay on one and in the case of four others, applications for their regularization are pending before the collector,” Dharbandora mamlatdar Laxmikant Kuttikar said.
 
 The Surla controversy in Sancorda panchayat has an interesting twist. The Fonde family alleged in a complaint to the government that the school itself is an illegal structure.
 
  The matter is being examined by the government, sources said. “The issue could be resolved to help these poor families as some industrialists have gotten away with grabbing large parcels of government land in nearby areas,” a resident said, on the condition of anonymity.
 
 The Fonde girls, especially Savita, studied at the school and brought laurels for the school in drawing and kabaddi at the state-level. The school authorities declined to comment, stating that the matter is in court, but local resident Sonba Desai said that the land was in private hands during the Portuguese era.
 
 Goa’s unheralded tchoukball star, who represented India at the second South Asian tchoukball championship 2014 in Nepal, appeared distressed like other villages. “We don’t have help from anybody nor the government despite our performance,” Savita bemoaned.
 
 Both girls posed with their medals around their neck. But Vanita’s mother, a widow with three school-going children, cried out in anguish, “What can we do now other than put the noose around our neck?”
 
 Vanita explained, “After my father’s death two years ago, she has raised us by the sweat of her brow.”
 
 Savita and five other local girls, mostly from Goa’s border villages of Molem and Dargem, comprised the national team which beat Bhutan for the first place in the finals. She also helped Goa win a few junior and senior titles.
 
 
