PUNE: The ongoing row between rightist students’ wing ABVP and the Leftist SFI at   in Delhi found a resonance on the University of Pune campus on Friday night. 

 Student activists from either side clashed over posters put up by the SFI announcing a meet on February 27 to protest the events at Ramjas College. Besides, it referred to state education minister Vinod Tawde’s "threat" to the SFI students at a polytechnic college in Solapur and BJP leader Prashant Paricharaks’s alleged disparaging remarks about army personnel during the recent zilla parishad elections in the state.
 
 At least five students were injured in the   as police came on the campus to bring the situation under control. The Chatushrungi police's senior inspector Dayanand Dhome said, “We have detained students from either groups and are investigating the matter.” He confirmed the clash, but maintained that no one was seriously injured. "We are ready to register complaints if the victims prefer,” he said. 
 
 He said, "The incident occurred between 8.30pm and 9pm following a dispute between the two groups." 
 
 SFI's Pune district secretary Vilas Sable said, “Our students were pasting posters at various places on the university campus when some ABVP activists insisted that we should remove the references to Tawde, Paricharak and ABVP from the posters. We told them it was a matter of our right to protest and they should put up their own posters. This led to a dispute and the eventual clash. The ABVP summoned outsiders on the university campus to beat us.”
 
 Sable said, “The assailants assaulted us with belt and wooden sticks and one of the victims fainted on the spot. Two others were seriously injured. We are in the process of registering a complaint. The police have sent the injured victims to a hospital for medical examination.”
 
 Sable identified the injured as Satish Padolkar, Naseer Shaikh, Sandeep Margal, Satish Gore and Satish Dabade. He said the SFI would go ahead with its programme. 
 
 ABVP secretary   said, “Today we had a protest march against what is happening in Ramjas College,  . The Leftist groups had put up posters against the ABVP on Savitribai Phule Pune University campus. We protested against this and they beat us up first, to which we retaliated. Now, we are in the process of filing a complaint.” 
 
 
