PATNA: Two days after a major fire in which a   mall was completely destroyed, chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Monday asked the officials concerned to prepare an action plan and also develop a solid mechanism to ensure that incidents of fire don’t occur in the first place.
 
  The CM was visibly upset at a high-level meeting held on Monday to review the level of preparedness of the departments concerned to tackle fire incidents. With the scorching heat and westerly wind blowing, reports of fire have been trickling in from many parts of the state, too. The disaster management department (DMD) made a presentation on fire safety norms at the meeting.
  
  The CM said tackling fire does not mean just rushing a fire tender to douse the flames and distributing relief materials among the victims. “A solid mechanism has to be developed to prevent fire incidents,” he added. The CM directed the officials of fire service, urban development, energy, housing and health departments to immediately prepare the action plan.
  
  “With the increase in number of multi-storey apartments in various cities of the state, it has become necessary for the departments concerned to ensure that fire safety norms, as prescribed building by-laws, are adhered to,” the CM said, adding there should be proper spot inspections to see if the existing norms are followed.
  
  The CM also said self-certified reports should be sought from the builders mentioning if they had subscribed to installing the fire safety mechanism in the apartments they have constructed. “Besides, steps should be taken to increase awareness regarding fire safety among residents of private buildings,” he added.
  
  Those who attended the meeting included chief secretary   Singh, State Disaster Management Authority vice-chairman   and its member  , principal secretaries of departments concerned – Amir Subhani (home), R K Mahajan (health),   (urban development), Amrit Lal Meena (building construction) – director general of fire services P N Rai and CM’s principal secretary Chanchal Kumar.
