NAGPUR: Candidates for the   slated on February 21 have expressed shock at the change in polling system in the middle of the campaign. The revised system will have names of candidates from multiple seats on a single   (EVM), with the spillover names on more EVMs placed alongside. Until now, election officials had maintained that there will be separate EVMs for each seat, so there will be at least 4 EVMs in each ward.

 Opposition leader and Congress city president Vikas Thakre, who is contesting from ward no. 37, told TOI it was a surprise move from the civic administration. “NMC held a meeting with representatives of all political parties immediately after announcement of elections. We were informed that there will be one EVM for one seat, so four units for four seats in a ward. Accordingly, we have been informing people during the campaign that there will be four machines. We also told them to vote for Panjas in each of the four machines. Now, with 10 days of campaigning over and only eight days remaining, there will be confusion among voters when they go to vote,” he said.
 
 Similarly,   candidate from ward no. 22 Alka Dalal and BJP’s candidate from ward no. 14 Vinod Kanhere said   officials informed everyone that there would be one EVM for one seat. “It is totally wrong to keep names of candidates from different seats on same EVM. There should be four separate units for four seats in every ward for smooth polling. I will lodge a complaint with NMC and also State Election Commission (SEC),” Dalal said.
 
 Kanhere said he came to know on Sunday there would be only two EVM units in his ward. “Now, we will have to again make the voters aware about the revised system.”
 
 Even in press conference organized after code of conduct came into effect, NMC officials had said names of candidates of one seat will be displayed on one unit and there would be separate EVMs for each seat.
 
 In the new system, there will be only two EVMs in eight of the 38 wards, three EVMs in 17 wards and four EVMs in remaining 13 wards.
 
 A senior NMC official said the polling system was prepared as per directives of SEC. “There is a colour code for each seat. Also, seat number will be displayed properly on the EVM. Therefore, there is no chance of confusion. NMC will also spread awareness among people about polling system. Mock polling was conducted at three places. 12,000 polling staffers are being trained, who will guide voters if they have confusion during polling,” he said.
 
 Another problem coming to fore for voters is that the 2,783 polling booths will be housed at only 961 locations. This means on an average three booths will be at one place. There are some places where five booths are at one location, the best example being   at  .
 
 Activist Ravi Kaskhedikar said such a system consumes more time of the voter. “I can go and vote directly in case here is one polling booth at one location. I will have to inquire and wander from one place to another in case there are multiple booths at one location. I agree the administration is helpless, as they cannot get premises in such large numbers. But such systems require improvement to increase polling percentage,” he said.
 
 
