JAIPUR: International travellers, ranging from countries such as Israel and the  , have stayed back and started initiatives like veterinary hospitals for abandoned animals, schools for the girl child that have improved the lives of local residents and kept the holy city clean.

 Foreign tourists are doing their bit to bring about the much-needed change in the holy city of Pushkar. They are engaged in a wide array of social activities like promoting cleanliness through special drives to running a veterinary hospital for abandoned animals.
 
 They are promoting education for girls, building toilets in schools and collaborating with local residents to save fast depleting sand dunes. These are among the important services being rendered by foreign nationals.
 
  (75), a tourist from France, has made Pushkar her second home. She is a frequent visitor to Pushkar,and comes to the holy town every six months. “Until a decade ago, the situation in Pushkar was very bad. The main problem was the people had no civic sense. Spitting in public places and littering on the roads were very common,“ said Smith.
 
 To correct it, she along with like-minded friends started reaching out to shopkeepers, creating awareness about the importance of cleanliness. “It worked. Today, most of the shopkeepers have kept dustbins at shops.I have no data, but I am sure that the health index too must have improved with the cleanliness,“ said Smith.
 
 Many of the foreigners staying in Pushkar are experts in one or the other fields. As the air, road and rail network developed in the early 1970s, Pushkar began to attract tourists from European countries and Israel.A British national,   founded a vet hospital, Tree Of Life For Animals (TOLFA), in the outskirts of Pushkar for treating abandoned and stray animals. The hospital was the firstof-its-kind in the holy city to take care of cows, dogs, cats, rabbits and peacocks.
 
 Abandoned and stray animals, especially the ill and injured, were contributing to the dirt and filth around the holy city . “People feed them and worship them, but they don't take care of these animals. This inspired me to open the hospital. It has helped authorities to keep the holy city neat and clean,“ said Wright, who spends four months in Pushkar every year. Mara Sandra, a citizen of Dominican Republic in the Caribbean, is a name that almost everyone in Pushkar is acquainted with. She came to India 16 years ago. Moved by the poor education levels among girl children, she opened a school in the city .“I was shocked to learn that the main reason behind girls dropping out was the absence of toilets in schools. I did research and found out that it was not just schools but most of the households too did not have toilets.They go out in the open to defecate. The practice of defecating in the open is hazardous for the health of humans and environment,“ said Sandra.
 
 She took a place on rent to open a school with proper toilet facilities. “I did not restrict my school to traditional teaching; it went beyond to spread awareness about how hygiene is related to our health. The efforts bore results as many of the girls started convincing their parents to build toilets at homes and contribute to the cleanliness of the city ,“ said Sandra. Emanuela Sabbatini, a yoga teacher and president of  , teaches the importance of washing hands, brushing and bathing to slum children or nomads who live in the periphery of Pushkar.
 
 Ashok Tak, a social activist based in Pushkar, said, “Foreign tourists who provide expert human resources can motivate and bring around change faster than local communities. Their diverse social and cultural backgrounds can build the city's character to world class levels.“
 
