MARGAO: Away from the spotlight and officialdom, the first prime minister of Indian origin to head a European country, Portugal’s  , sat down for a quiet five-course pre-plated meal at Margao’s  , in the house where his father   grew up. And for the next two and a half hours on Thursday afternoon, over stories and memories, Costa spent time with his father’s family.

 “It was a relaxing meal. Two and a half hours wasn’t enough, but we managed to catch up with the good old times,” Anna Kaarina Jussilainen Costa, his first cousin told TOI. This was Costa’s second visit to his ancestral home—he last came here in the late ’70s.
 
 “We took him on a tour of the house and memories came flooding back to him. He recalled which corner of the house he would curl up to read when the family was taking a siesta. They stayed for around a month at that time,” Anna Kaarina said.
 
 From tiger prawns to pork loin and Malabar crab cake on top of mini utthapam to faux caviar with fish liquid centre, Costa relished everything, turning down alcohol to just sip water. “I was amazed when every plate came back clean to the kitchen,” said chef Mahesh, whom the family had roped in from Radisson Blu, so that they could spend some time with their ‘Babush’.
 
 Not very comfortable with the security, protocol and media attention, Costa’s 78-year-old paternal aunt Sinikka Jussilainen Costa, was happy to spend some family time with her nephew whom she last met more than a decade ago. “This is exactly what he badly needed with his hectic schedule. I’m looking forward to visiting him again in Portugal, whether he is in the same position or not,” Anna Kaarina said.
 
 If the family exchanged stories and memories, friends and well-wishers in the neighbourhood sent him stacks of books. The family also got a surprise in the morning, when the postman delivered two letters addressed to him from his fans, which were handed over to Costa.
 
 Costa, on his part, left a thank-you note for chef Mahesh for his  . “I have served a number of celebrities and heads of state in the past, but this is an experience that will remain with me. People often think twice when it comes to complimenting someone else, but the prime minister not only appreciated the food but also took photographs of each of the dishes I laid before him. I have never seen any other head of state do this during my career,” an excited Mahesh told TOI.
 
 He is glad he decided to stick to regional Indian food with a modern twist, rather than Goan-Portuguese. “I checked the menus at the banquets thrown for him and there was enough of Goan-Portuguese food there,” Mahesh said.
 
 The only gift the family passed on to Costa was a  . And what was in the bag? “Let us just say it is something from our family to his,” said Anna Kaarina, with a smile.
 
