JAIPUR: With support from experts of Delhi’s Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS), Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital conducted its first liver transplant on Saturday morning. 

 For the past three years, the   was preparing facilities for the liver transplant. Now, it has conducted the transplant with the support of experts from Delhi.
 
 A 30-year-old person, who met with an accident, was declared brain dead by the brain declaration committee of the SMS Hospital on Friday morning. 
 
 The hospital officials said that they conducted counselling of the family belonged to Kotputli of Jaipur district to give their consent for   transplant. The hospital provided the treatment to the patient but he did not show any improvement. “The family gave its consent for the organ donation after the counselling,” Dr US Agarwal, principal of   said.
 
 After the consent received from the family, the SMS Medical College administration immediately contacted ILBS for their support in liver transplant. ILBS sent a 15-member team of doctors and other staff expert in liver and other organ transplant headed by Dr Viniyendra Pamecha.
 
 Dr Pamecha said that they have conducted the liver transplant and the patient had been admitted to ICU for post-transplant care. 
 
 Officials said that they started retrieving organs from 2 am on Saturday and it took four hours for completing the retrieval, which continued till 6 am. They retrieved kidneys, liver and heart. 
 
 Meanwhile, exerts in liver transplant prepared recipient for liver transplant. They started transplanting the retrieved liver from brain dead patient to the 45-year-old recipient of liver.
 
 Besides, it took seven minutes for the officials to transport retrieved heart from SMS Hospital to Jaipur airport. For the purpose, the traffic police created green corridor at 6am. The heart was flown to Delhi’s AIIMS for transplant. The two retrieved kidneys were also transplanted in SMS hospital to patients with kidney failure. 
 
 In the organ transplant, SMS hospital’s doctors including Dr Ajay Sharma, Dr Vinay Tomar, Dr S S Sharma and Dr Ajit Singh played key role in counselling, preparing the facility for organ transplant, for helping the experts in it along with taking active participation in organ transplant. 
 
 Now, hospital officials said that they are developing a facility in the hospital by constructing a multi-storey building near SMS hospital. The plans are that on one of the multi-storey floors, they will develop organ transplant institute. 
 
 Chief minister   congratulated SMS Hospital doctors and ILBS doctors on first liver transplant of SMS hospital. She said, “Organ donation is such a huge donation which gives lives to others.” She also expressed thanks to donor’s family. Health minister Kalicharan Saraf too congratulated the doctors saying that organ transplant can save lives of those patients will organ failures.
 
 Box: Health minister Kalicharan Saraf said that efforts will be made to introduce liver transplant facilities in PBM Hospital in Bikaner. He was addressing a gathering at PBM Hospital on Bhamashah Samman Samaroh held on Saturday.
 
