LUDHIANA: Once again the issue of violence in Ludhiana Central Jail was highlighted and this time in front of a judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court, SS Saron, who was visiting the prison on Tajpur Road on Friday afternoon.

 Justice Saron, accompanied by chief judicial magistrate Japinder Singh, Ludhiana sessions judge KS Kang, Ludhiana commissioner of police Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, jail superintendent DK Sidhu and jail deputy superintendent Rajiv Kumar Arora, was inspecting the prison. When he was interacting with inmates, the inspecting team heard loud noises of a scuffle from inside a barrack, forcing the officials to rush to the spot.
 
 Rape case accused Sandeep Singh and murder suspect   told Justice Saron that they were thrashed by a group of four prisoners, who were recently shifted to the jail from a juvenile home. They also showed their bruises. Justice Saron asked the jail superintendent D K Sidhu to examine the matter on priority.
 
 Deputy jail superintendent R K Arora said, “After the medical examination of both Sandeep and Gurdeep, the matter has been handed over to the division number seven police. During the initial investigation, it was found that the two groups had an argument. Nobody, however, saw the two being beaten up. Police will further conduct an inquiry.”
 
 During the interaction, two other undertrials told Justice Saron that some policemen had framed them in narcotics case by planting drugs into their pockets. About 35 prisoners urged the inspecting judge to help them get bail as many of them had been in prison for the past several years. Both the matters were handed over to commissioner of police Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh.
 
 Later, Justice Saron also visited juvenile home and women’s jail.
 
 ‘Framed in drugs case’
 
 Two undertrials told Justice Saron that some policemen had framed them in narcotics case by planting drugs into their pockets. About 35 prisoners urged the inspecting judge to help them get bail as many of them had been in prison for the past several years. Both the matters were handed over to commissioner of police Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh.
 
 Thrashing uploaded on FB
 
 Around 10 days ago, undertrials in the case of attack on Sikh preacher   -- Gurpeet Singh, Sukhwinder Singh, Manveer Singh and Sukhpreet Singh – had thrashed an inmate, Sahil, who is an accused in an extortion case. They also video-graphed it and uploaded it on Facebook from inside the Ludhiana Central Jail.
 
 Times View
 
 Clashes in jails, the Nabha jail-break, frequent seizures of cellphones and intoxicants from inmates show that there is something drastically wrong with Punjab jails. The ease with which the inmates get access to drugs, money and run their Facebook pages from behind the jail walls, are a clear indicator of the malaise that pervades the jail set-up. There is a need to bring in huge reforms to ensure greater transparency and accountability. This can be done by monitoring prison conditions, reform of prison management and fostering cooperation between the various agencies of the criminal justice system.
 
 
