Mumbai: As part of the RBI-directed plan to cut promoters’ stake,   is finalising plans to launch an institutional placement offer through which it would sell up to 6.2 crore shares, currently valued at about Rs 5,700 crore. According to the bank’s disclosure to the bourses, the central bank had asked  , the main promoter of the lender, together with his family, to cut their stake in the country’s third largest private sector bank in a staggered manner to 15% by March 2020 from the current level of 32%. The   has mandated the bank that by June 30, the promoters’ stake should be cut to 30%.

 On Tuesday, Kotak Bank’s shareholders gave their nod to it to issue up to 6.2 crore shares through public offer, private placement or rights offer, including a qualified institutional placement ( ). Shareholders also allowed the management to raise foreign holding in the bank to 49%. To a query by TOI about the possible method of stake dilution, Rohit Rao, a spokesperson for  , said that at the extraordinary general meeting of the bank, “the shareholders have approved the capital issuance of up to 6.2 crore shares. Thereafter, the bank has not taken any decision on the specifics of the same”.
 
 After the bank issues 6.2 crore new shares, promoters’ stake will come down to about 31%. So in effect, the promoters will have another one and half months to dilute another 1% stake in the bank to comply with the regulatory directive. Market players are now speculating if Kotak will use the QIP route to dilute his stake in the bank or make another institutional offer like through a block deal, using the accelerated book-building method to sell the bank’s shares.
 
 A report by proxy advisory firm SES recently pointed out that to meet the RBI’s directives, Kotak Bank will have to sell shares alone worth Rs 2 lakh crore in the next three years. It also warned that this could lead to a substantial hike in foreign holding in the bank and may also dilute investors’ confidence in the lender since promoters interest (also termed ‘skin in the game’) will be lowered.
 
 
