KOCHI/IMPHAL: In the aftermath of her disastrous performance in the recent  , the 2010 march by prominent Kerala activists from Cherthala all the way to Imphal to express solidarity with   in her fight against the   (AFSPA) might sound vain and quixotic.

 But all those who participated in that march still feel it was a meaningful endeavour. “We were literally mesmerised when we saw her behind the iron grill of the prison ward at the   in Imphal; we thought we saw an aura around her face, and when she reached for our hands through the gaps in the rails, it was like a mystical touch,'' recalls Civic Chandran, the cultural activist who had scripted the street play that they performed across India during that momentous journey .
 
 Echoing similar excitement, activist   says, “It was a sub lime experience, like touch ing the vast terrains of struggles of millions of oppressed people, throughout history and across the globe. After the Indian independence movement, Irom Sharmila had led the most peaceful and long-standing Gandhian struggle against the oppression of the ruling regime.'' The activists' group, which also included Prof Sarah Joseph, Prof Kalpetta Narayanan and P M Balakrishnan, had chosen to start from Cherthala, as it was the constituency of the then defence minister A K Antony .“As Keralites, we wanted to re quest him in Malayalam that he should use his powers as defence minister to withdraw the draconian AFSPA which was being misused by the army personnel to torture innocent people, particu larly women in Manipur,'' explains Sarah Joseph.
 
 The group travelled through Bengaluru, Chennai, Vijayawada, Pune, Delhi, Kolkata and Itanagar performing the solo street play titled ' ' (A woman with a torch) in Malayalam, Hindi and English versions. The play, directed by I G Mini, had sought to capture various facets of Sharmila's struggles and had about 50 performances earlier in different parts of Kerala with Madonna Madhavan in the lead role. However, during the march, Thaniya K Leela from Payyannur played the lead role of Sharmila in the Malayalam version and she recalls that the play was a remarkable turning point in her life.
 
 “I was only a second-year degree student in Bengaluru then and was not fully aware of the seriousness of Sharmila's struggles and the play .But looking back, I can say that the play gave me enormous strength to remain unwavering in the wake of various turbulences in life, and I have no hesitation to say that it was Sharmila's life and struggles which give me the energy to remain steadfast,'' Thaniya says.
 
 Only few members of the group could make it to Imphal from Arunachal Pradesh because of the blockade launched by extremists and the curfew imposed by the army to deal with them. Even though the lucky few could meet the then Manipur chief minister with a request to meet Irom Sharmila, he too said they will have to wait for ten days and go through the formalities. “But then we used our Malayali ingeniousness and entered the hospital through the backdoor, met her with the graceful support of the hospital and jail staff,'' recounts Chandran. Both Sharmila and visitors from Kerala were in tears when they told her struggles will be successful and she will be free one day , recalls Prof Geetha. Speaking over phone from Attapadi, Sharmila says she is grateful to the support she had received from Kerala, even though she was no able to recollect the details of the meeting with Kerala activists in the hospital jail ward.
 
 Interestingly, at least some of the participants in the march were sympathisers of the now-dis solved Naxalite movement in Kerala. But they had taken the march to Imphal under the banner of Hind Swaraj Yatra which coincided with the centenary of the publication of 'Hind Swaraj' by Mahatma Gandhi.
 
 “In the seventies and eighties, the rebelling youth in Kerala were inspired by the question 'which death you prefer, a death mightier like Himalayas or a light end like the fall of a feather of a flying bird?' However, by the `90s a paradigm shift had taken place in our' perspective, and we had started asking ourselves 'which life we will opt, a mighty life or an easy life?' We had realised by then that violent struggles cannot stem repressive tendencies of those in power,'' explains Chandran.
 
 The activists dismiss the suggestion of a total sense of loss after Sharmila's humiliating electoral setback, pointing out that several activists like Udaya Kumar and C K Janu had tasted such defeats, despite their genuineness.
 
 “I don't think Irom Sharmila's struggle was a total failure. It has made an indelible mark on history, and will inspire numerous movements against injustice in future,'' says Thaniya, who is now a consulting psychologist and teacher at Payyannur.
 
 “Sharmila's electoral defeat only shows the limits of the democratic system in our country. Even though several movements in India are now being led by women, patriarchal structures ensure that those struggles never become a total success,'' rues Prof Geetha.
 
