Fed up of  , more than a hundred residents of   in  , Thane (W), confined their builder to a room in the clubhouse for nearly five hours on Sunday. The building is a part of the sprawling Dosti Vihar housing society, constructed by Dosti Realty.

 Rajesh Shah, one of the directors of Dosti Realty, was allowed to go only after he gave a written assurance that the problem will be sorted out within 15 days. The builder on Monday filed a police complaint after residents also forced the realty firm’s sales and customer care offices on the premises to shut down, and prevented water tankers from entering the compound.
 
 Such is the water crisis in Thane that each Thaneite gets only 145 litres of water a day, which is around 45% less than what a citizen in other parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region gets. A few months ago, the Thane Police, fearing riots over water, sent teams to housing societies to ensure there were no fights over water (‘Thane police fear massive unrest due to water scarcity’, MM, April 4).
 
 The ruckus at Dosti Vihar started as early as 9.30 am on Sunday when residents thronged the firm’s offices shouting slogans. They said the builders hadn’t bothered responding to any of their messages and failed to address the water problem despite several pleas. Some of the residents are senior citizens who find it extremely difficult to depend on water provided by tankers.
 
 Girish Mhatre, secretary of Dosti Vrishti, said the society is worst hit by the water crisis because it is located farthest from the water supply outlet. “We were assured running water round the clock, besides other amenities by the builder. We have been facing water shortage for many years. The builder said the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) wasn’t releasing enough water but through the Right to Information Act we found that the TMC is in fact releasing surplus water. It’s because of the builder’s mismanagement that we have to spend nearly Rs 2 lakh a month for water,” Mhatre said.
 
 Ninety year old Rajendra Palkar, who is partially blind, and his wife Jhelum told this correspondent that life has been “painful” from the time they moved to Dosti Vrishti. The couple’s children are settled abroad, and the senior citizens find it extremely difficult to run around for water. “We moved here thinking we will find a peaceful environment. Running around for water is excruciating. We can’t be going through such pain at our age,” Jhelum said.
 
 Nearly six hours after residents launched their protest on Sunday, Rajesh Shah and Pankaj Shah, both directors of Dosti Realty, arrived at the society. The residents took Rajesh to the clubhouse from where he wasn’t allowed to leave till he signed on a paper that said the builder will ensure the problem will be solved within 15 days.
 
 “These are strong-arm tactics,” Rajesh said. “I tried explaining to the residents that we are in the process of finding a solution. It is the TMC that provides water, not me. The problem is, the land on which the society stands is uneven and the force at which the water is released is not enough to cover the entire society. We are trying to install a separate pipeline but I can’t tell how long it will take to finish that work,” he said.
 
 Officers from Vartak Nagar Police Station confirmed a complaint was filed by the builder, and said there hasn’t been any arrest. The residents said they weren’t worried about police complaints. “They have water to fill up swimming pools in the society, but not for us,” said one of them, Suhas Dhanawade.
 
