BHOPAL: Students locked the main gate of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee   a day after the executive council recommended two options for shifting the university campus —   or  . Students said the council should have recommended the name of Benazir College only. 

 Drama began in the morning when students forcefully took out the teachers and other staff members from the campus at Minto Hall. A student on conditions of anonymity said, “Benazir College is in the middle of the city. Recommending the name of a private college which far away from the city centre does not make any sense at all .” 
 
 Students were seen sitting in front of the main gate. They raised slogans against the university for their decision of recommending the name of private college. 
 
 Registrar, Sanjay Tiwari said, “The university can’t decide the name of the campus for shifting. It can only recommend. Rukmani Devi private college has proper infrastructure. Only transport is a problem. We have suggested the higher authorities to arrange transport.” The students opened the gates
 
 The university has been hunting for different venues after receiving instructions to shift the present campus at Minto hall where it holds its classes. The university’s administrative department is being in a couple of rooms on Bhoj university campus. 
 
 Last year, the state government had declared to convert Minto Hall into a convention centre. Renovation work was also started, but the work could not proceed owing to the presence of Hindi University there. The university was asked to vacate the venue to speed up the renovation work. The university had decided to shift the campus to Rukmani Devi private engineering college. However, the university had to face strong protests from students over its plans to temporarily shift to a private engineering college on the outskirts of the city.
 
 Owing to the protest, the university had convened an emergency meeting of executive council and it was decided to look for different places before making any final decision. 
 
 On Thursday, the council recommended two campuses for shifting the university. EC has also recommended that in case Rukamni Devi is finalised for shifting then state government will have to provide grant for transport facilities. “Infrastructure like labs, good classrooms are available in Rukmani Devi. Shifting to that campus is not an issue but transport is a problem. For this, it has recommended to provide transport facility to students,” said Tiwari.
 
 
