AURANGABAD: Corporators have started demanding that the   restart the   pattern contract system to execute various  

 Under the A-1 pattern, corporators were allowed to allot contracts below Rs 25,000 using just their letterhead and without calling for tenders. 
 
 The main aim was to enable the people’s representatives to skip the lengthy procedure of inviting bids and allotting contracts especially in cases of emergency. It has been the practice for long at the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC).
 
 In early 2016, the then civic chief Sunil Kendrekar had banned the practice, suspecting irregularities. 
 
 Since then, the authorities call tenders and allot contracts to eligible agencies even if they have to undertake minor work like the repair of a drainage or water pipeline, which costs less than Rs 25,000.
 
 Corporators are frustrated by the delays in carrying out simple repair work in their wards. 
 
 MIM corporator   has been demanding that the civic body restart the system.
 
 He has also tabled a proposal in this regard to be discussed at the general body meeting slated on May 20. Akhtar said he would urge Bapu Ghadamode to direct civic authorities to start the A-1 pattern. 
 
 “The A-1 pattern of awarding contracts allows corporators to meet the people’s expectations within a short period of time. It makes it easier to carry out emergency work,” Akhtar said.
 
 He added that the civic administration may fix a certain limit for each corporator while executing projects under the A1 pattern. 
 
 “All corporators have some discretionary powers that may also be used under the head. It will help citizens in a big way,” he said.
 
 MIM corporator Sayyed Matin, who seconded the proposal, said residents blamed the people’s representatives when their issues are not resolved on time.
 
 “When people come to us with their problems, we are forced to inform the concerned officer who prepares the cost estimates and takes approvals from his higher-ups. The proposal then goes to the tendering department, which assigns the work to a contractor. This is a very lenthy process, which needs to be curtailed,” he said. 
 
 BJP corporator Nitin Chitte had recently raised a similar demand, saying that the restriction was delaying   
 
 “It takes months to invite bids and allot a contract,” he said. 
 
