MUMBAI: The   has consistently failed to spend even half its budgetary provisions for the past five years even as citizens of the country's economic capital suffered due to poor infrastructure, mediocre healthcare, and ineffective planning.

 In 2016-17 too, the election year, the BMC was unable to spend half of the total budget of Rs 12,957 crore till February. In the last financial year, the BMC spent 38.3% of the budget (see box). The main culprits are exaggerated budgetary provisioning, corrupt contractors and their nexus with equally corrupt officials, the multiplicity of agencies working for the city and the inevitable delays in getting permission from them and the government.
 
 The BMC's mega earnings and its big budget -often bigger than some of India's smaller states -does not necessarily translate into major spending to improve the lives of Mumbaikars. It does not have the capacity to spend over Rs 4,000 crore every year on various works, confessed a senior officer. “The development spending of the city is inadequate. Even allocated funds do not get spent, which means their (BMC's) decision-making procedure is slow and there is some drawback in the process,“ explained   of the   (ADR).
 
 Civic officials said projects often get delayed due to lack of clearance from state or central government and their budgetary provisions lapse. For instance, the BMC had kept Rs 1,000 crore for the western coastal ro ad in the budget for 2016-17, but the central clearance is still awaited. The allocation will lapse in March 2017.
 
 The most common reason perhaps is that contractors are unable to complete their work on time after bagging the contracts. Last year, the BMC terminated contracts worth Rs 3,700 crore for the Deonar dumping ground after the contractor failed to start work for the contract awarded in 2009-10. Activists said contractors seek to delay projects to benefit from massive cost escalations.
 
 Over the past couple of years, there's been a crackdown on corrupt contractors in the desilting and road repair scams and its showing on the BMC's books, said officials. The civic body is now getting much better servicesfacilities by spending less compared to earlier years. In 201617, the BMC spent only Rs 176 crore on roads, out of a total Rs 2,886 crore. It withheld around Rs 900 crore payment to contractors for shoddy work. In 2014-15, they had spent Rs 1,988 of the budget amount of Rs 2,309, but the roads had not been any better.
 
 Similarly, the BMC spent only Rs 206 crore of its 1,001 crore budgetary provision in 2016-17 on storm water drains, and the city witnessed negligible flooding during monsoon. The year before, it spent Rs 401crore of Rs 1,105 crore, and yet various part of the city flooded during heavy rainfall. Last November, the civic chief stopped tendering of a Rs10-crore tech investment to streamline the functioning of the legal department and asked his technical department to get cracking. It made the software in 1% of the tender cost.
 
