PATNA: Union IT and law minister   on Monday said Patna College would get Rs5 crore from the UGC’s Heritage Fund to develop itself as a ‘model college’. 

 Speaking as the chief guest at the   celebrations of Patna College, the minister, who happens to be an alumnus of this college, said a Guru Gobind Singh chair would be established in   (PU) soon for promoting studies and research on the religion, life and works of the 10th Sikh guru, whose 350th birth centenary was celebrated here recently.
 
 He said PU would soon be connected to the   so that all its students and faculty members could benefit. PU is likely to be the sixth institution in the country to have Wi-Fi campus under the pilot project of the IT ministry. 
 
 Prasad exhorted the college administration to apply for its ranking under National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) for its all-India recognition and also take the advantage of the digital lectures by subject experts through online courses. He said as many as 500 new online courses would be introduced under the UGC’s ‘Swyam’ programme. “The marks obtained by a student in an online course would be added to that obtained in a regular full-time course pursued by him. Besides, noted software company TCS would start a call centre in Patna soon, providing jobs to at least 1,000 unemployed youths of the state,” he said.
 
 PU vice-chancellor Y C Simhadri presided over the function.
 
 The minister said, “Our country is witnessing fast transformation in digital world, with the number of the internet users growing beyond 50 crore and over 35 crore smartphone users. As many as 42 mobile phone manufacturing companies have come up in the last 18 months. Even rickshaw-pullers and bidi workers are going digital for the benefit of their family and society.”
 
 Praising the demonetisation of old Rs500 and Rs1,000 notes, he said it has not only wiped out black money but also hit terrorism, extremism, hawala and even flesh trade. 
 
 Recalling the old glory and rich tradition of the college, Prasad said former principal Batheja had described the institution as “an Oxford of the East with no Cambridge to compete”. He said, “I have visited a number of institutions in the world, but the Patna College campus is decidedly the best. I got my wife in this college as during my student days, the girls of Patna Women’s College and   used to come to Patna College to attend their Honours classes.” Incidentally, Prasad’s wife Maya Shankar, a senior teacher of history in PU, was sitting in front of the minister.
 
 As many as 18 college toppers in different subjects were given certificates and mementos by the chief guest. Four teachers, namely, Ran Vijay Kumar (history), P C Verma (economics), Ashesh Das Gupta (sociology), and Ashraf Zahan (Urdu) and an employee, Upendra Raut, were felicitated on the occasion. They retired during the last one year. 
 
 College principal S M Ashok welcomed the guests. College sociology teacher Randhir Kumar Singh proposed a vote of thanks.
 
 
