NAGPUR: More than a week after the biggest tax reform rolled out in the country, businessmen, traders, manufacturers are in a fix over   (Goods and Services Tax). 

 In order to cater to their needs and assist the smooth functioning of their business, CAnOE Solutions in collaboration with “The Chaos Theory” organized GST Mantra, a platform where queries regarding the new taxing system were discussed at the co-working space, Chaos Theory on Saturday evening.
 
 Stalwarts in the field of chartered accountancy, speakers Anand Taori and Mayur Zanwar conducted an interactive   with a bunch of young entrepreneurs, IT professionals, distributors, commerce students and others to show them a clear picture of GST.
 
 “The place for supply of commodity matters the most here as you are liable to pay 9% each to central and state government in the form of   and SGST, if your transaction is intrastate. For interstate you will pay only 18% IGST (Integrated GST) to the Centre,” said Taori while explaining the basics. 
 
 “A mixed supply contains products which are independent and can be sold individually. In such cases, separate taxes will be levied on all goods. But if the supply is composite, which means that the goods cannot be segregated or sold discreetly then the product with highest taxable rate will be considered and that would be the tax levied on the entire bundle,” he informed. 
 
 Zanwar also unravelled the process further and discussed about attractive schemes launched by the government. “Composition scheme has been introduced with an aim to aid start ups, small and medium enterprises (SMEs), the condition being that the business is restricted to goods and the annual turnover is less than 75 lakhs. When opting for this, a taxpayer will be required to file summarized returns on a quarterly basis, instead of three monthly returns (as applicable for normal businesses). Under composition scheme, manufacturers will have to pay 2% and 1% GST respectively.”
 
 According to Taori, the reverse mechanism will force unregistered businessmen to pay taxes, thus dragging them into organized sector. 
 
 Founders of CAnOE Solutions   and Sonali Malik, launched their website www.gstarena.in, where people can get in touch with registered CAs to seek professional guidance.
 
