Ghaziabad: A 25-year-old   survivor, Lakshmi, is fighting for her life in hospital two months after the ghastly assault on her while her parents are running from pillar to post for justice. 

 On Friday, Lakshmi’s parents — father Satpal (55) and mother   (50) — knocked on the door of   SSP Deepak Kumar, requesting him to take speedy action against her husband and in-laws, who allegedly forced a bottle of   down her throat and left her in a locked room to die on February 4.
 
 She is the mother of a three-year-old son, Lavish, and 14-month-old daughter Radhika.
 
 According to investigative officer Bebraj Singh, the accused — her husband Shashi, father-in-law Ram Das, mother-in-law Anokhi Devi, brothers-in-law Subhash and Jaipal — are still at large. “The woman’s parents met me. I summoned the investigating officer of the case and directed him to arrest the culprits at the earliest,” said the SSP, promising speedy action in the case.
 
 Lakshmi’s condition has hardly improved over the past few weeks. She is still lying on a bed at Harsh ENT hospital at RDC with a food pipe inserted into her nostrils. Slipping in and out of consciousness, she keeps mumbling in an inaudible tone — “I don’t want to live”.
 
 “I sometimes secretly wish she dies so that she could be delivered from the excruciating pain she has been suffering for the last two months,” her mother Sheela said.
 
 Father Satpal, a tailor by profession and resident of Bamhetta, was visibly distraught. “Look what those ‘animals’ have done to my poor daughter,” he said. “I will do whatever it takes to see my daughter back on her feet again,” he added without much conviction.
 
 The doctor treating Lakshmi termed her condition ‘critical’. Pointing at her X-ray report, Dr B P Tyagi said: “The inner mucous layer of her wind and food pipes and stomach has burned. And it has become so constricted now that she can’t even swallow a drop of water.”
 
 “Currently, we are very cautiously administering a liquid diet through Ryles tube to her, but we don’t exactly know how long we would be able to do this,” Tyagi said, summing up her medical condition.
 
 Lakshmi, who had married Shashi on May 3, 2013, used to live with her jobless husband, mother-in-law, father-in-law and two brothers-in-laws in Masuri, Ghaziabad.
 
 According to her parents, Lakshmi’s in-laws had been harassing her for dowry since her marriage. “On the wedding day, her father-in-law Ram Das had warned that he would not accept her as we had not met their demands,” alleged Satpal. “She had been constantly harassed for dowry. We had lodged a complaint with the police in this regard too.”
 
 Finally, on February 4, they tried to kill her. “They wanted to give the impression that she tried to commit suicide,” said Satpal. “But one of her neighbours heard her screaming for help and rushed her to Piplari hospital in Masuri, from where she was referred to Sudarshan hospital. Later, Lakshmi regained her consciousness and narrated her ordeal.” On March 7, an FIR was filed under various sections of the   and the anti-dowry laws against the five persons.
 
