AGRA: Vinod Kushwaha, a 34-year-old homeopathic doctor from Rampur village in   district, has acquired a new name — “Toilet doctor”. He prescribes a toilet to his patients and gives them a long lecture on the health benefits of making the village open defecation free. His relentless campaign for making his village ODF by getting a toilet constructed in every home has been recognized by the state government. He along with  , pradhan of   village in Saharanpur, is one of two people, selected from 100 entries, for their excellent work in “Swachta hi Seva” campaign under the Swach Bharat Mission. They will be felicitated by CM Adityanath   on October 2.
 
  Kushawaha has been the force behind building 210 toilets in his villages in a span of 25 days and motivated hundreds of people across 184 villages for following suit. He told TOI, that being a doctor, villagers rely on his word and that is why he could motivate them to build a toilet in their homes for living a healthier life.
  
  A banner outside his clinic, “Khule me saunch se 80% bimariyan failti hai (80% diseases are spread due to open defecation)”, is what Kushwaha has been stressing on. He tells his patients that open defecation is one of the biggest source of diseases. That is also the reason why he became a part of the campaign and motivated others to follow him.
  
  Not one to be confined to his clinic, the doctor has made a short film, “Sauchalaya ki pratigya”, which was shot in Rampur. It has been screened in all neighbouring villages. All the artistes who play a role in the film are villagers who joined the ODF campaign.
  
  “I asked businessmen to provide construction material to villagers on loan, which they would pay back after receiving grants from the government,” Kushwaha said, adding that this help had proved to be a turning point for his campaign.
  
  Kushwaha said in order to spread the a word about the campaign, he has organized community meetings at night to discuss the ill effects of open defecation.
  
  He admitted that some tough measures had to be taken to bring about a change in the behavior of villagers. “Nigrani samiti” (vigilance committee) were set up to identify the habitual violators, he said. “We had to stop ration supplies of 40 people who were not ready to use their toilets,” he said.
  
  His “army of campaigners” include women and children. While the children swarmed the open fields to spot the offenders and shame them by blowing whistles. Women snatched and took away the “lotas” of such people. His efforts have paid off and he has succeeded in breaking a mindset and making people change their habit.
