CHANDIGARH: Investigations into the cash-for-job scam in Haryana assembly have revealed that the accused who claimed to have paid Rs 90.15 lakh for getting several youths jobs in the assembly, had met the personal secretary of the speaker on many occasions.

 The revelation is significant as the accused, Ram Nath, had told police that he had paid Rs 90.15 lakh to  , stated to be the personal secretary of Haryana speaker, to get jobs for youths in the Vidhan Sabha. The name of Ashok Kumar, who was posted in Haryana  , also cropped up in the statements.
 
 As per the details accessed by TOI, Nath, a resident of Lalpur village of Ambala district had visited the Haryana assembly 10 times between February 13, 2015, and July 29, 2016, and met the PA to speaker or the secretary branch of the Vidhan Sabha.
 
 He was accompanied by two to four persons during most of his visits. Records also revealed that another accused  , a resident of Uttar Pradesh and accused in the case, too had gone to the assembly on four occasions.
 
 Investigations brought out the fact that from January 2015 onwards till now 24 employees were recruited on regular basis and 16 employees on a 89 day stint to class III and IV posts in the secretariat. Vakil, who allegedly re edly received money from Nath, was posted in personal staff of Vidhan Sabha Speaker from November 2014 to October 2015.
 
 Both Nath and Balinder are accused in the suicide case of Ambala villager   who had allegedly collected money from youths and given to Ram Nath to get them jobs. In his statement recorded before his death, Baljeet had alleged that he collected Rs 93.15 lakh from some youths and handed over the money to Nath. However, when Nath couldn't get the promised jobs, Baljeet sought the money back. Nath allegedly delayed repayment on one pretext or the other. This forced Baljeet to commit suicide, according to dying declaration.
 
 When Ram was arrested by the police, he disclosed that he had paid Rs 90.15 lakh to Vakil out of Rs 93.15 lakh paid by Baljeet for jobs in the Vidhan Sabha and pocketed Rs 3 lakh.
 
 Nath disclosed that Rs 7 lakh per candidate had been sought for posts of peons and storekeepers and part of theis sum was paid by him and Baljeet to Vakil in the Haryana Vidhan Sabha premises.
 
 Nath also said that Vakil had informed him that Ashok Kumar would take the money and asked him to bring 10-15 boys with money . After 10-15 days, he had paid Rs 37 lakh for six-seven candidates at a plot in front of the Haryana chief minister's residence.
 
