BHOPAL: Bhopalites seem to have opted for sober and safer celebrations on the New Year-eve this year. If data furnished by the traffic cops is to be believed, in the city having over 13 lakh vehicles, only 7 people risked to mix drinking with driving on December 31 night. Moreover, for the city that guzzles 39,500 proof litres of alcohol every day, the data goes on to state that not even a single untoward incident took place while the city ushered in  . 

 New Year's Eve is one of the busiest nights for policemen, since they have to deal with drink-driving to brawl in parties to street fights. Possibility of such incidents increases as the night gets longer. As such, the cops remained on their toes checking traffic rules violations. Armed with breath analysers, the cops checked the commuters, but could catch only 7 people driving drunk till the first sunrise of the New Year.
 
 Drunk driving checks were conducted right from early evening hours at prime areas including Lal Ghati square, Ret Ghat trisection, Nadra bus stand, Bhopal Talkies road, Bharat Talkies road, Prabhat square and  .
 
 The drive also covered Board Office square, Ganesh Mandir opposite to  , Bhadbhada square, Roshanpura square, Mata Mandir square, Bairagarh, Manisha Market and Kolar trisection. 
 
 Cops said 321 people were fined for violation of different traffic rules on the day. It included 248 for riding two-wheeler without helmets, 3 for jumping traffic signals, 27 for wrong parking, 23 for riding four-wheeler without seatbelts, 3 for tinted glasses and 10 people were fined for other violation. 
 
 As a precautionary measure, the traffic cops had issued an advisory for commuters on Friday appealing them to follow traffic rules. However, the dismal number of people fined on the New Year's eve points out that the drive against drunk driving was just a mere formality.
 
 Interestingly, officials said that apart from traffic police, cops from police stations too were deployed in the vehicles checking drive with a focus to check drunk driving in the city.
 
 
