AHMEDABAD: An   had to content himself with a   of his   feature film at Gandhinagar, instead of a preview, after the   of   (CBFC) did not clear the film for release in India.

 Film director  , a dalit from Nadiad, and lives in Australia. His film, ‘Colour of Darkness’ addresses the issues of racial and caste bias ingrained in Australian and Indian societies. The film could not get through censor scrutiny on Saturday, after the film-viewing committee found that the movie’s English subtitles were at variance with the spoken Gujarati dialogues.
 
 According to the film distributor, Giriraj Gaitonde of Pioneer Enterprise, experts took objected to the English subtitles because there was vast difference between what was spoken by the characters and what was conveyed in the subtitles. There was also a technical issue during the viewing of the print, which caused a little problem for the committee to view the subtitles with clarity.
 
 Gaitonde told TOI, “The censor board will write us a letter specifying what we need to rectify in the film, but the committee has conveyed to us that it would view the film again after the subtitles are corrected.”
 
 This has, however, not gone down well with the director, who defended the liberty he took in translating dialogues from Gujarati. He said, “I have tried to use the nearest English idiom instead of translating dialogues and proverbs spoken in Gujarati. What is objectionable is that the censor board stopped watching the film midway.”
 
 Without the green signal from the CBFC to screen the film for public viewing, Makwana and his producers held a private screening at a Gandhinagar cinema hall on Wednesday evening.
 
 
 
 
 ‘Colour of Darkness’ revolves around the attacks on Indians in Australia that happened few years ago. A journalist is assigned to investigate the issue, and the film talks about how the journalist comes across how racial and caste biases are in-built in communities across the continents. The film was released in Australia on May 19, and was scheduled for release in the Indian market on May 25.
 
