 with a cultural   that showcased an amalgamation of various cultures. The rally started at 
  displaying the rich culture of Malwa, with horses and elephants paving way for Devi Ahilya Bai Holkar (a student in the guise of Ahilya Bai). The rally was followed by students from across India displaying their respective   costumes, dancing in the rally. As the colossal   campus reverberated with slogans being chanted by its students, visiting students from other colleges waited to welcome the students of foreign universities who were taking part in the rally.
 
  
 
 The rally continued till 
  and the students continued to dance to the tune of the dhol, showcasing dances of various cultures and holding flags of their respective nations high. Participants from Bhutan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Afghanistan and Sri Lanka partook in the rally with gusto. The students who have come from other nations in   looked quite satisfied with the arrangements at the campus. Sanduni Abeygunwardena, a student from Sri Lanka said, “We came here the day before yesterday and have faced no problem so far. The facilities at the accommodation house and otherwise are par excellence. We found everyone cooperative and accommodating here. The cultural 
 rally gave us a fair glimpse of the myriad of cultures in India.” Karma Kelzangendon, Dean of student affairs from Bhutan added, “We loved the food here. We went to a mall yesterday and are feeling at home here."
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Social issues like saying no to dowry, standing up against crimes against women, pollution, corruption and drug addiction were also raised through the rally. Teachers from DAVV were seen wearing pink sarees and giving their 100 per cent in making the rally a big success. The guest of honour,   said, “I am already feeling young being in the midst of so many youngsters. I must say that the city has developed by leaps and bounds in the recent years. I see a much cleaner and younger Indore now.” Sharing her thoughts, she added, “Students must take part in cultural activities as it enhances the inner self of an individual and makes us lead a calmer life.”
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Shiv Manik Puri, an artist from Raipur, had come to the DAVV campus to make Hema Malini’s Rangoli portrait. Shiv Manik Puri, 26, shared, “This has been chosen from the movie Baghban. I am not charging anything for this art work. It’s my way of representing DAVV and I love it when people recognise and appreciate my work.”
 
