RANCHI: Governor-cum-chancellor of universities   launched an integrated   for students on Thursday at Raj Bhavan. Students can now opt for   as details of   have been uploaded to the portal which will link all the universities and colleges of the state. However, the web portal (www.jharkhanduniversities.nic.in) is still under-construction. 

 Murmu convened a meeting where the secretary of state higher education and technical department along state minister for higher and technical minister Neera yadav and vice-chancellors of the five universities of the state were present. They were introduced to the government's fellowship programme where a university topper will be given a fellowship of Rs 15,000 to pursue a PhD course. Also, a graduate who is admitted in the country's top 100 institutions will receive an award of Rs 1 lakh.
 
 Besides, a pension benefit scheme for teachers was approved who are teaching in minority deficient grant colleges like St Xavier's College, Nirmala College, Maulana Azad College, Karim City College, Gurunanak College and Parmvir Albert Ekka College.
 
 A state level sub-committee will also be constituted to frame a policy which will address minority institutions' problems after getting a nod from the cabinet. The issues include vacant post of teachers, infrastructure and sufficient grants for the colleges to run smoothly.
 
 Ajay Kumar Singh, secretary of state higher education and technical department said it was decided that Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) will recruit assistant professors as there less teachers in colleges, "We have directed varsities to manage with the teachers by appointing them on contract basis but now Choice Based Credit System has been implemented in varsities."
 
 Singh further said it was decided at the meeting that college holidays will be curtailed. "We have long holidays from Dusshera to Chhath puja but now it will be of a shorter duration."
 
 Secretary said apart from the fellowship programme, the government will also pay for the students' education who have graduated with distinction, if their parents are not income tax payees."
 
 The department will also start bus services at college and university levels for girls. Education will be free for girl students who are willing to pursue post-graduate courses. 
 
 
