
Your work wardrobe should reflect who you are, but should never give away what you do. So if you are a banker, don’t kit out in a standard three-piece suit. If you have no code, use your clothes to create an image. 
 Tip: Dress in a way that you stand out, not blend in.
  
 
 Wear clothes that are well-made and fit right. Oversized clothes look shabby. Clothes that are too tight can be restrictive and highlight areas they shouldn’t. These need to be altered or replaced.
 Tip: Invest in crease-free pieces.
 
 
 A lot of companies have guidelines, which are a brand building exercise and help create an image and corporate identity. When there’s a uniform, don’t make changes to the code. To stand out, keep your uniform looking crisp and maintain it well. 
 Tip: When you wear a uniform, it’s not about you, but your company image – respect it.
  
  
 The idea for Friday dressing is to retain the formal feel with a more relaxed weekend accent in your clothes. This can often be misunderstood. Just think of it as a casual take on your everyday dressing – think chinos, loafers and casual sweaters.
 Tip: When in doubt, ape what the boss wears on Fridays.
  
 
 Make a conscious effort to look and dress distinctly different from the rest. Besides black and white, you can wear colours like subtle shades of blue, brown, green or grey, even a hint of red. Avoid gold, silver and other metallic tones.
 Tip: Change it up by rethinking colour combinations.
  
 
 
 Casual work wear should be distinctly smart and sharp. Jeans are okay to wear if you work in an environment like media, arts, advertising, start-ups, IT.
 Tip: Wear jeans that are plain in colour with no texture. Yes, no destroyed denims, please.
 
 
 
 Occasionally, yes. In an ever shrinking world and a global economy, the more 'universal' you look the better. Dress in clothes that are globally accepted as regular office or work wear.
 
 
 
 If you are going for a drink or party immediately after work change one strong element in your look. Men can lose the tie, roll up the sleeves and unbutton the shirt, while women can add a scarf, stole or some colour to their makeup.
 
 
 
 The writer is a corporate grooming expert and an etiquette trainer 
 
 
