HYDERABAD: Owing to a combination of clear skies and cold winds from the north, temperatures in the city have been dipping. Officials from the Indian   (IMD) say the temperatures in the city will plummet by two to three degrees over the next 24 hours.

 “The wind current that has been blowing from the north to the south especially over the city is cold. Since we have clear skies as of now, the heat that comes in during the day escapes. This makes temperatures drop,“ said Y K Reddy , director (incharge), IMD Hyderabad.Experts suggested that wind current, responsible for lowering the temperature, has also been high over the last fortnight.
 
 Another factor for the drop in temperatures could be the absence of easternbay moisture laden winds.
 
 “Whenever there is wind blowing over the state from sea coasts, it brings in a lot of moisture. Following this, clouds are formed which hold the heat that comes in over the land mass during daytime and do not let it escape during the nights,“ Dr K J Ramesh, member secretary of the   , said.
 
 “Certain places like Chittoor, which are usually warm during the winters, have also witnessed a drop in the temperature The fall in temperature has been appreciable. But this might be a short-lived phenomenon,“ he said.
 
 Reddy said, “we have also witnessed a drop in the day time maximum temperatures.“ On Friday , the maximum temperature was at 28 degrees Celsius, which is a degree lower than the normal for the season. Officials predict that the minimum temperatures will continue to hover between 14-15 degrees Celsius over the week.
 
 Dr K Nagaratna, a scientist of the met department, Hyderabad, said that day-time long-wave radiation had an easier route to escape because of the clear skies leading to both cold days and cold nights.
 
 City residents unused to the cold complained of various health ailments from colds to join pains. MDR Sastry , a resident of Khairatabad, who is nearing retirement said he has been suffering from joint aches which have been exacerbated by the cold.
 
