A year after it opened in Pune, city-based theatre group Theatron Entertainment’s hindi play 
  left a winning mark at the 18th edition of  , one of the most revered national youth festivals. Written and directed by young thespians   and Shivraj Waichal, it emerged winner from over hundred entries across 22 cities, and five finalists at the competition that culminated last month at Prithvi Theatre, Mumbai.

  Interestingly, 
  is a one-person performance, not to be confused with a monologue. It tells the story of a quirky factory night watchman, Bhanvarsingh (essayed by Shivraj), highlighting what could happen to the human mind in isolation, through the events of his last shift that does not seem to end. Virajas says, “The play was written for Pune’s The Grand Festival of Solo Theatre. We never liked the idea of forcing a play with multiple characters into a single-character format; it takes away from the experience. So, our focus was on developing a piece that cannot be performed by more than one person.” 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Having attended past editions of Thespo as viewers, the duo claims that being on stage this time was both unnerving as well as rewarding. Shivraj says, “The mere one-character format can be a challenge. One needs to hold the audience’s attention for a minimum of 60 minutes, and there is just a single 
 character. The plot and characterisation needed to be captivating enough.” Virajas adds, “When you perform the play several times, you tend to gauge which parts will invite reactions, and you tend to play them up. But in Mumbai, we got reactions at completely different points. That was quite a strange experience!”
 
  At the finals, the group was pitted against four others — from Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru and another group from Pune. 
  bagged five awards — Outstanding Supporting Male Actor (for the first time, awarded to Virajas for off-stage character voicing), production design, direction, Outstanding Male Actor (Shivraj) and Outstanding Play. Avinash Kolhe, one of the festival jury members, particularly praised 
  for its brilliant use of stage space.
  
 The play’s recent staging on January 4 at Prithvi was lauded by veteran thespians, including Ratna Pathak Shah, Rajit Kapur and Akarsh Khurana. The group plans to stage 
  in Pune next month.
 
 
 
 Marathi play 
 , the other entry from Pune, also bagged the award for Outstanding Ensemble. Addressing the topic of sex education, it highlighted what secondary schools in rural Maharashtra face when sex education is suddenly made compulsory. It was first performed at the Purushottam Karandak festival. 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
