 Chief Minister   announced that tickets in the state will be capped at a maximum of `200. This move was welcomed by the local film industry and movie buffs. It also sparked off a debate nationally, with other states wondering whether a similar cap is a feasible idea. While tickets have been priced at a nominal rate in   and   for a long time, the Karnataka government’s decision was met with a lot of criticism, especially by the multiplexes. Industry insiders say that this is because the Karnataka region, especially Bengaluru, contributes in a major way to the collections of big films of all languages. The cosmopolitan nature of Bengaluru seems to be the biggest bone of contention for the implementation of this rule.

 While multiplexes and theatres seem to have implemented the cap on ticket prices (see screen grabs) albeit hesitatingly, the   (MAI) issued a release on Wednesday night calling this move a bad idea. “The Government of Karnataka has recently notified that ticket prices for all cinema theatres in Karnataka will be capped at `200. The Multiplex Association of India, and its members, believe that this step is retrograde, irrational, unfair, against the interests of film industry and the people of Karnataka, and potentially unconstitutional. The MAI urges the Government of Karnataka to withdraw this notification immediately, in the interests of the industry and the people of Karnataka. The MAI is also evaluating options at its disposal to protect the interests of its members and other stakeholders,” they said in the release.
 Talking further about the issue, Deepak Asher, President of Multiplex Association of India, said, “The Government of Karnataka has always been very pro-active and positive to the needs of the industry, and for this reason, Karnataka has been one of our favourite investment decisions. However, we sincerely believe that steps like these, which place a cap on ticket prices of cinema theatres, are investor unfriendly, and against the interests of the film industry and, more importantly, the people of Karnataka. Hence, we strongly urge the Government of Karnataka to withdraw the said notification with immediate effect.” 
 
 Brand expert Harish Bijoor says, “I do believe that the government’s move was well-intended. At the end of the day, the film aficionado is more important than anyone else on this food chain. To that extent my sympathies lie with cine viewers in Bengaluru than anyone else. Multiplexes can make their money on popcorn and tacos and chaat and all else they offer at exorbitant prices. Let good cinema be enjoyed at reasonable prices.”
 Sharing similar sentiments, but also pointing out that there has been no clarity on the implementation of the ticket price capping, film enthusiast   says, “As a film buff I was happy that the ticket pricing had been frozen. But now understanding that the District Commissioner has the right to decide on this capping, it is sad that the government didn’t follow that route to get the procedure in place.”
 
 Producer-distributor-exhibitor Rockline Venkatesh says, “Theatre ticket price capping is not a bad idea. There are times when we need to think beyond business and look at preserving culture and languages. Take Karnataka, for instance, we need to support the local industry, which, in turn, will help saving Kannada language from perishing. This ticket price capping has been implemented in other states and things are working fine over there. There is no need for one to worry about this move.”
 Filmmaker P Vasu, who has made films across the South Indian languages, feels that this is a good move and will encourage viewers to head to the cinema halls. But, he also says that there could have been better planning for the same. “This is definitely a decision that is favourable to the viewers. Though, a little pre-announcement could have helped. This would have ensured that buyers of films would have kept in mind the idea that the tickets are now being priced at `200 and not the usual higher rates. This would have saved the buyers’ money. Though, things should be alright in a month or so, once everyone warms up to the idea. This works well in states like Tamil Nadu. I’ve always maintained that excessive high pricing for a ticket is not correct unless it is a charity show and there is a reason behind the higher pricing. An average Indian film viewer is a middle-class man who keeps a budget of `1,000 for his family. This move will help those viewers,” says Vasu. 
 
