PUNE: This Holi could be the coolest festival of colours in five years.

 The Met office expects the minimum temperature in the city to dip to an unusual 12°C on March 13. Holi is expected to be a nippy affair up north, including Delhi, too. The minimum temperature in the national capital could be 10 -11°C on the day of riot of colours.
 
  is currently under the influence of a western disturbance, causing rain and snow in northern states.
 
 According to an   (IMD) forecast, the city’s minimum temperature could hover around 11-12°C on March 12 and 13. The maximum could be 33-34°C.
 
 Data revealed the city’s minimum temperature on the day of Holi usually ranged from 13.8°C to over 19°C over the past five years. Only once the minimum and maximum temperatures dipped below 15°C and 35°C, respectively. That was in 2015.
 
 The minimum temperature on March 6 in 2015 — the day of Holi — was 13.8°C and the maximum was 32.9°C. If the night temperature dips to 12°C on March 13, the upcoming Holi morning would be the coolest indeed since 2013.
 
 A Met department official told TOI that an active western disturbance affecting northwest India was responsible for the dip in temperatures during the second week of March this year. The official said, “The lower level winds associated with the system are strong and are blowing into   from the cooler regions of the north, resulting in a fall in temperatures in the state. The winds associated with this system are stronger than those experienced normally.”
 
 The official said the city’s night temperature, which touched a below-normal level of 12.1°C on Friday, would rise marginally to 13°C on Saturday. The minimum temperature could dip again to 11°C and 12°C on March 12 and 13 due to the moving western disturbance. 
 
 “The dip in minimum temperature around Holi could be attributed to less humidity in the air because of the moving western disturbance,” the official said.
 
 Parts of north India might also experience a cooler Holi this year. Weather forecasters expect the minimum temperature in Delhi to dip close to 10°C on Holi. Now, the minimum temperature there is around 15°C.
 
 According to the   officials, dry and clear weather conditions would come back to Delhi by March 12. But the day temperature is not expected to rise immediately. Day temperature would range between 25°C and 26°C on Holi, while the night temperature might fall by a couple of degrees to 10°C-12°C.
 
