Trichy: Heated arguments were witnessed at a meeting held between bank officials and farmers’ associations here on Saturday to arrive at a solution on the non-repayment of agriculture loans. The coordination meeting was called by the district administration after the   opposed the steps taken by nationalised banks to recover the loans from the debt-ridden among them at a time when they were demanding waiver of the same. 

 The closed-door meeting saw the farmers venting their ire at the officials for sending legal notice through the court in Trichy last week. “We explained to the bankers about the plight of the farmers. Tamil Nadu witnessed around 400 deaths of farmers of late due to the drought. The cultivation failed due to failure of monsoon and lack of water in the river. The farmers were crippled by the financial trouble. So, we insisted that the banks not harass the farmers in the delta region in the name of loan recovery,” said the president of agriculture wing of Tamil Maanila Congress, Puliyur Nagarajan. 
 
 In one of the notices served on the farmers, the bank ordered the defaulter to appear before the court on June 16 in connection with the crop loan of Rs 2 lakh taken for banana cultivation in May 2009. 
 
 The farmer now owed an amount of Rs 4.83 lakhs. The farmers claimed that the bankers have no permission to recover loans from farmers in the drought-hit states. 
 
 “RBI told the banks not to recover loan from farmers in the states affected by drought. Tamil Nadu being severely hit by the drought, the bankers should not harass the farmers here,” said the president of Desiya Thennidiya Nadhigal Inaippu Sangam P Ayyakannu. 
 
 The farmers demanded that the loan recovery process be stopped until the Union government took a decision on the demand of waiver of loan in nationalised banks. Farmers in Tamil Nadu owed Rs 6139.74 crore to the nationalised banks as on December 31, 2016. The banks had declared them as non performing asset (NPA) of agriculture loans. 
 
 Listening to the arguments of the farmers, the bankers promised to bring the matter to the notice of their higher officials. “It was a coordination meeting where the farmers and the bankers registered their points. We will take it up with the higher officials,” said RDO, Trichy M Ganesh Kumar.
 
 
