NEW DELHI: The   has listed its reservations on the   air pollution control action plan in an affidavit to   

 The plan, which had short medium and long-term actions to be undertaken to meet the clean air standards in Delhi, was drafted by EPCA and CPCB on SC’s behest. 
 
 The affidavit accessed by TOI says the 42-point plan drafted by the ministry in 2015 was enough to cut down pollution level. Though none of the measures mentioned in the plan were implemented.
 
 It must be mentioned that neither of the draftees had expressed these reservations. The affidavit has raised a number of issues. For example, it doesn’t want foreign studies to be quoted as they could portray a “wrong image of the country and also affect decision making”. It has also opposed the April 1, 2020 deadline for registration of BS-VI vehicles, as that could lead to economic loss for the industry. The ministry also does not want the old thermal power plants like Badarpur to be shut down and wants EPCA to “function under the supervision of the central government”. 
 
 The Comprehensive Action Plan report had quoted the Global Burden of Disease estimates for 2017 that said that India was the second highest country to have deaths due to PM 2.5 exposure and also had the world’s highest ozone-related deaths. Objecting to these figures, the ministry said that these numbers are not “validated for Indian conditions and there are no conclusive data available to establish direct correlation of death exclusively with air pollution”. Delhi’s ozone levels are within permissible level, it added.
 
 Quoting the government’s own epidemiological 2012 study, which found children in Delhi had reduced lung function compared to other children assessed in other states, the ministry said, “There are many confounding factors in the study, it needs further studies for clinical correlation.…International references in a government submission without proper validation of data with reference to Indian conditions not only portray wrong image of the country but also affect decision making a policy formulation.”
 
 The ministry also doesn’t agree with the clean air targets set in the report, one of which is to reduce PM 2.5 concentration in Delhi by 70% to meet the air quality standard over time. The ministry, however, claimed this method was flawed because there are significant variations in pollution levels among various monitoring stations. “Attempt should be made to bring down very poor and severe air quality days by about 30% within a year,” it said. The major disagreement the ministry has is with the deadline of April 1, 2020, for stopping the registration of BS-IV vehicles and moving completely to BS-VI ones.
 
 SC’s recent ban on the manufacture and registration of BS-III vehicles from April 1, 2017, has already created a scenario of regulatory “uncertainty and mis-perception (sic)”. “Technical challenges of leapfrogging from BS-IV to BS-VI would be far more complex and challenging...Moreover, BS-VI fuel will not be available across the country till April 1, 2020. Zero stock of BS-IV by March 31, 2020 is not possible because sales cannot be predicted in advance,” the affidavit states. The ministry also had reservations on expanding the CNG station network in NCR as CNG is associated with higher oxides of nitrogen (NOx) and PM 1 emissions. It favours a “fuel-neutral” policy to be followed in the future.
 
 MoEFCC has also made some strong comments on the authority of EPCA. Quoting a notification dated, July 4, 2016, which has the terms of reference of EPCA, the ministry states: “EPCA is required to function under supervision and control of the central government. Chairman EPCA has directly taken up the matter with the chief secretaries of all the states regarding ban on BS-III which has led to significant misunderstanding because EPCA has no jurisdiction beyond NCR.” 
 
 
