AHMEDABAD: The country’s first   was reported in Ahmedabad in February 2016, but it was hushed up to all effects. None in Ahmedabad’s   knew, nor was there any intimation from the state government to the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation.

 What is even more startling is that just nine days after the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring the Zika virus as a global emergency on February 1, 2016, city’s BJ Medical College Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) reported its first Zika virus detection in a 64-year-old man from Bapunagar.
 
 The same day, instead of making the public aware of Zika virus presence in the city, health commissioner J P Gupta announced that a special Zika virus detection laboratory will be set up in Ahmedabad. 
 
 Sources in AMC’s health department admit that all three Zika virus cases were those that approached the   in Ahmedabad, and that too from Bapunagar area. 
 
 This not how even more than 70 countries across the world have reacted to the disease, since it was first reported in 2015. These countries reacted almost immediately to reports of cases and brought the disease to public knowledge through public awareness campaigns. 
 
 The disease is spread by Aedes Aegypti miosquito, the same vector which is responsible for the spread of dengue and chikungunya, which kept health officials on the edge in 2016.
 
 Medical fraternity in Ahmedabad confessed that it was completely clueless about any case of Zika virus being reported in Ahmedabad between February 2016 to January 2017.
 
 “In usual practice the state government alerts us about any disease outbreak or detection of viral infection cases which has potential to assume  . However, we were not told about any case of Zika virus being reported in Ahmedabad,” said Dr Yogendra Modi, president of Indian Medical Association. 
 
 “Prompt dissemination of information would come handy in organizing awareness programmes amongst doctors alerting them to suspect and diagnose Zika cases whose symptoms are quite similar with chikungunya widely prevalent in Ahmedabad and Gujarat,” Dr Modi said.
 
 President of Ahmedabad Medical Association,   told TOI that it has not organized a single awareness seminar about Zika virus. “Globally, we were reading reports about Zika virus but since there was no word on cases being detected in India, leave alone Ahmedabad, we did not prioritize organizing any awareness or medical education programme for doctors to detect Zika virus,” said Dr Patel.
 
 Infectious diseases specialist, Dr Atul Patel, said, “Local stakeholders should be the first to learn about any case of viral infections which have potential to turn into outbreaks to take preventive measures,” said Dr Patel, adding, “Zika virus cases in city should have been made public especially as it is spread through Aedes aegypti mosquito whose presence is endemic in the city.”
 
