BENGALURU: The past five years have seen an alarming dip in the   across the state. Despite this,   have mushroomed, thanks to  .

 Urban centres, particularly Bengaluru, are witnessing a spurt in the number of illegal borewells as residents foresee a major water crisis this summer.According to minor irrigation department officials, approximately 5,000 new borewells are drilled in Karnataka every month, and 80% of the residents are dealing with drought and water scarcity. Therefore, the fall in the groundwater level is expected to be higher than the 3.26metre average of the past five years.
 
 There are around 14.5 lakh borewells in the state; of these at least 25% are in Bengaluru. While many reseidents have resorted to digging new borewells, some are deepening the existing ones.
 
 Residents of the Malnad region, who were relying on traditional wells till now, are also opting for borewells.“Our borewell was 300 feet deep but we were unable to extract water because of in sufficient rain,“ said Deepak, a coffee planter from   who deepened his borewell to 480 feet this month.
 
 Residents are digging as deep as 1,500 feet in Chikka ballapura and Kolar to extract groundwater as water is supplied only on alternate days. Officials say there is no mechanism to check borewells coming up near waterbodies and in taluks where sinking is banned. “There was rampant digging of irrigation borewells between August and December last year,“ said an agriculture department official.
 
 He said they visited a village in Chikkaballapura a few days ago and asked a farmer to stop digging a borewell near a water tank.“But the entire village came together and demanded the government first make water available and only then stop them from digging wells,“ he added.
 
 Law and parliamentary affairs minister T B Jayachandra, who also holds the minor irrigation portfolio, said he has directed deputy commissioners to grant permission to farmers to sink borewells on agricultural land to save their standing crops, considering the gravity of the situation.
 
 Water expert   said: “The problem is that people don't listen and officials don't take strict action. Deep digging of borewells could expose fresh water to saline water, due to which it could become unsuitable for any use. Borewells are not a permanent solution to the water crisis and should be dug only after consulting geologists. Sadly , the norms are not being followed.“
 
