NASHIK: The controversial   on the   link road that was demolished in January as per the directions of the Bombay high court is gradually returning with scrap dealers making a slow comeback. 

 It was the   in the history of the city. The scrap dealers recently wrote to the Prime Minister who directed their grievances to the state government. 
 
 While waiting for a response from the government, the scrap dealers are returning one by one. 
 
 “Our association has boycotted the business that the court had objected to. People have either changed the business or have found alternate place for the business. Only those businesses are being carried out which have nothing to do with pollution,” said  , president of the Nashik Traders Association.
 
 He alleged that the Nashik Municipal Corporation did not take the action as per the high court’s orders. 
 
 “They demolished the market for unauthorised constructions. Now there is no construction. The place is our own. So if one does business on one’s own place and which is not causing pollution nor troubling the people, then what is the harm?” he asked.
 
 “The business is 36m away from the road; so, officially commercial activity is permitted. Many people have submitted applications to the NMC, seeking permission to conduct business officially. We are prepared to pay the charges for whatever is permitted legally. But the NMC did not finalise anything. As per the law, if permission or any reply is not given in 90 days then it is understood that the party has permission. Accordingly, the shops may start,” Khan said.
 
 He said until recently the civic body had not decided the demolition charges to be taken from the traders. After he wrote to the Prime Minister, the NMC decided to charge Rs 43 per square metre.
 
 “They said they added the court charges of 17 years as well. Whenever the fire brigade comes they charge on the spot. Now, they are asking charges of 17 years. In how many places of the city or the state such drives have taken place and what was the recovery amount? How many sheds in Nashik have been demolished and what was the recovery amount? We have also objected to the development plan for the zone mentioned in it,” Khan said.
 
 The petitioner in the case,  , said the scrap businesses cannot return and that they cannot be legalised as it was in a residential zone. 
 
 “I have faith in the judiciary and am thankful to them and the NMC for demolishing the scrap market. The scrap dealers have also been asked to dispose of the scrap outside the city limits,” Datir said. 
 
 An NMC official said, “We cannot permit them to conduct business there as per their demands as they are in a residential zone. Any scrap business coming up will be demolished.”
 
