PATNA: The state, it seems, is gradually turning into a narcotics zone owing to prohibition imposed in Bihar on April 5 last year. The 56th battalion of   (SSB) on Monday seized huge quantity of drugs, including 8,496 tablets of Spasmo Proxyvon Plus, 1,000 tablets of Nitrosun, 350 bottles of Corex syrup, 495 bottles of Parvo Cof and 570 injections of different types, among others, from Jogbani near Indo-Nepal border.

 An expert said Spasmo Proxyvon Pluz is mostly used in case of stomach pain and at times prescribed to pregnant women. Nitrosun is a sleeping pill usually prescribed to treat insomnia. Corex and Parvo Cof are cough syrups and used for ailments in respiratory system. “All these drugs are not allowed to be sold without medical prescription, but are used by addicts,” he said.
 
 It’s not a one-off case. Opium worth of Rs60 lakh was seized from Gaya on last Saturday. Recent data from Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) suggested that Bihar is among the top five states in the country in terms of seizure of ganja since prohibition on April 5 last year. 
 
 “The drugs seized by the Bathnaha SSB were being illegally brought from Nepal to Jogbani. The drugs were worth Rs4 lakh and were supposed to be distributed at different places in Bihar,” said a senior SSB officer. He said there has been a quantum jump in smuggling of drugs like ganja (marijuana), heroin and medicines, which cannot be sold without prescription, across Indo-Nepal border following enforcement of prohibition in Bihar.
 
 “The movement of narcotic drugs has increased manifold over the last one year. In fact, the smuggling of drugs from Nepal to India is much more than that of liquor across the border. The arrested dealers and smugglers have told us that the demand of such drugs is highest among the youth,” the SSB officer said.
 
 Senior Bihar Police officers also admit that the seizure of drugs has increased in Bihar. “It is true that seizure of narcotic drugs, especially ganja, has increased in Bihar since prohibition. Ganja mostly comes from the northeast and gets distributed in the local markets. Besides, newer forms of drugs, which did not have traditional market in Bihar, are also being seized now,” said a senior police officer.
 
 Health experts also claim that the consumption of drugs has increased after enforcement of prohibition. “We are seeing a new trend of misuse of narcotic drugs among youngsters in the state following enforcement of prohibition, as people are looking for new forms of intoxicants,” said Dr Diwakar Tejashwi.
 
 
