SHIMLA: Due to limited infrastructure and hilly terrain, solid wastes are dumped in a haphazard manner causing not only the   but also   To ensure proper disposal of solid waste by urban local bodies, now Himachal Pradesh   (HPSPCB) has sought permission from the state government to prosecute officials of erring urban local bodies, but so far the government has not given a nod.

 According to sources, HPSPCB as a regulator is constantly issuing notices to urban local bodies and other concerned authorities to manage municipal solid waste in a scientific manner and in case of persistent non-compliance, conducting personal hearing with the responsible officers to sort out the problems being faced by them. They said that cities and towns in the state are littered with garbage. Only important locations of a city are being maintained, while other places are left to choke with uncollected waste.
 
 Himachal Pradesh has 61 urban local bodies including cantonment boards and of them only 10 have either installed or are constructing waste-processing or disposal facility. The remaining urban local bodies dispose of the waste at designated sites.
 
 A senior official from pollution control board, requesting anonymity, said that even the urban local bodies having waste disposal or processing facility too are not functioning properly. He said that in the state, around 300-350 metric tons of waste is generated daily while there is no exact record of biodegradable, recyclable, inert flows.
 
 Official said urban local bodies of Rohroo, Rampur, Paonta, Parwanoo, Bilaspur, Manali, Kullu and Chamba solid waste is disposed of along the riverside causing adverse impact on environment.
 
 He said that recently, executive officers of cantonment board, Jutogh, besides municipal councils of Rampur, Parwanoo, Baddi, Paonta, and Chamba were called for personal hearing. The HPSPCB has also requested the competent authority for granting prosecution sanction against the municipal councils of Chamba and Parwanoo for consistently failing to municipal solid waste disposal as per the rules.
 
 “However, no permission to prosecute officers concerned of said urban local bodies has been granted by the government till date due to which the pollution control board is in dilemma in acting against erring municipalities,” he added.
 
