Chandigarh/Jalandhar: Talks in the AAP are rife that its Punjab convener, Gurpreet Singh Waraich aka Ghuggi, could be asked to vacate the party’s top post in the state when the party’s Punjab leadership next meets supremo Arvind Kejriwal.

 However, that is not the only rumbling in the unit. It may be in for a major organizational rejig. Having sorted out differences with founding member Kumar Vishwas, Kejriwal will now be shifting his focus to Punjab and is expected to be in Chandigarh in near future for a meeting with the party’s state unit.
 
 There are talks that Ghuggi could be replaced by either Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira or Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann.
 
 In line with the plan, Mann has been asked to defer his US trip to meet his family till May 8. “In all likelihood, Kejriwal would come here. Else, party leaders could be summoned to Delhi. He is expected to meet each MLA alone for feedback,” said a party leader, who did not wish to be named.
 
 Sources close to Waraich said he was in no mood to resign, but would go by the party’s decision. “He campaigned in Majha and fought the election from Batala. He gave his best shot to all responsibilities given to him,” said an associate of Ghuggi who did not wish to be named.
 
 There are also talks that Mann may just end up endorsing Khaira’s name for the post. However, that would happen only if he himself doesn’t want to stake claim to it. 
 
 Placating Mann
 
 Sources said AAP was trying to placate Mann by offering the post, as he had spoken out against the party’s central leadership in recent past and even talked about keeping “all his options open”.
 
 Mann was expected to fly to the US by Wednesday. However, it is being said, he did not go, as the party was negotiating with him about the post. There were two major occasions when Mann came out in public against the party recently. At first, he said it was wrong for AAP to blame tampering with EVMs for losses in Punjab assembly elections and Delhi MC polls. Later, he had gone on to describe the party leadership’s behaviour as that of a “mohalla cricket team”.
 
 He had talked about announcing his next course of action on returning from his trip to the US. Though TOI tried to get in touch with the MP, he did not respond to text messages and phone calls.
 
 AAP’s Delhi leadership is of the opinion that the party could be on a sticky wicket in Punjab if Mann left or criticized the party any further. “After he had said that he was keeping all his options open, the party leadership was apprehending that he could party ways with us,” said a senior AAP leader.
 
 Mann, who is also the parliamentary party leader of AAP, had attacked the Delhi leadership after remaining silent for a month and half after the Punjab polls. He had said the party should look within instead of blaming the EVMs.
 
 Traditional set-up
 
 The party also plans to bring in more office-bearers by expanding the state unit with a traditional organizational set up. “Look at Congress, it has appointed scores of secretaries after Capt Amarinder Singh becamethe state unit’s chief. AAP too plans to have regular nomenclature,” said a party leader.
 
 A meeting of the party’s legislators was held in Chandigarh on April 29 and the “negative role” played by a few leaders was discussed in it. Sources said the possibility of bringing in a new convener was also touched upon, but no replacements were discussed. “The party will be completely reorganized so that there is no discontent at any level,” the source added.
 
 No criticism, volunteers told
 
 After AAP’s Punjab leaders came out against the party’s central leadership over the assembly election debacle, all MLAs have given directions to party cadres not to make out-of-turn remarks and statements in Punjab, as they could “harm the party”. AAP’s state leadership has been repeatedly blaming the high command for not giving adequate authority to local leaders.
 
 
