KOLHAPUR: The civic body is going to re-work on estimates of   Direct Pipeline project works and freshly scrutinise the project report.

 The decision has been taken to avoid blunders that happened recently in the case where bills with inflated amount were released to the contractor. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation ( ) officials had to face the ire of the corporators after authorities accepted the mistake. The civic administration had issued bills of Rs 2 crore for the works which were estimated to cost Rs 25 lakh.
 
 Abhijeet Chaudhari, KMC commissioner, while talking to TOI said, “A committee of experts will be set up soon and the detailed project report (DPR) will be scrutinised closely. All the works need to re-estimate to avoid any kind of mistake in the future. The details of the exercise to scrutinise the DPR will be released soon.”
 
 The DPR was drafted four years ago and the estimates were decided considering the standard rates of the raw materials during the execution period of the pipeline project. The total cost of the project is Rs 488 crore and in last two-and-a-half years the KMC has spent Rs 170 crore.
 
 The civic chief claimed that all bills issued earlier will be compared with the standard estimates and if there is any correction needed necessary steps will be taken.
 
 Meanwhile, allegations and counter allegations have started between the ruling Congress-Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Opposition Tararani Aghadi-Bharatiya Janata Party ( ).
 
 The Opposition has alleged that huge corruption has taken place during tendering of the project and finalising the contractor. However, the allegations have been refuted by the corporators of the ruling party.
 
 The Opposition has written to the chief minister   to initiate enquiry of the project and responding to which state revenue minister Chandrakant Patil asked Chaudhari to provide details of the mistakes that took place while issuing the bills and reasons for delay in the project.
 
 “I am going to brief the minister regarding the allegations. We have cleared it before that the bills issued were of lump sum amount and has assured that the bills to be issued henceforth will be separate for every work. The contractor has asked us to extend the deadline of the project, and decision pertaining to this will be taken within a week,” said Chaudhari. 
 
