COIMBATORE: Five women, who had been rescued from the flesh trade, escaped from the government protective home on Kannusamy Gounder Street on   in   on Saturday night after overpowering the warden and the cook by throwing chilli powder at them and locking them up in the kitchen.

 When the home authorities approached the Saravanampatti, Rathinapuri and   police with a complaint, they refused to register a case saying the crime scene did not fall under their jurisdiction.
 
 The Coimbatore police, meanwhile, launched a hunt for the five at various bus stands and railway stations but couldn't trace them. Finally , the Thudiyalur police accepted the complaint on Sunday evening.
 
 The home was set up in 1989 under the department of social defence with the sole purpose of rehabilitating the women rescued from flesh trade. The court considers the women rescued from sex rackets as victims and sent them to the government protective home for women for rehabilitation. To walk out of the home, they have to get a favourable court order.
 
 As many as nine women, including four from northern states, had been staying at the home for the past two months. These women had been literally confined to the four walls of the home and the only entertainment provided was television. Other inmates at the home were the staff, a private security guard, cook and warden.
 
 On Saturday , the security guard didn't report for duty guard didn't report for duty as he was unwell. Taking advantage of this, the five hatched a conspiracy to escape from the home on Saturday night.
 
 Around 8.30pm, they threw red chilli powder at warden Deepa and locked her up in the kitchen after snatching from her the main entrance gate key . When the cook, Nagavalli, tried to stop them, they also overpowered her using chilli powder and tied her to a chair. The five then escaped from the house.
 
 The remaining inmates later freed both the warden and the cook who alerted the city police control room. The police on patrol were immediately asked to conduct checks at the Coimbatore railway junction and various bus stands.
 
