BHUBANESWAR: After the resounding victory in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand assembly elections, the BJP eyes Odisha as a potential ground to sweep the poll in 2019, halting   from coming to power for fifth term.

 As part of its ‘look east politics, the BJP will hold its next national executive meeting in Bhubaneswar on April 15 and 16. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, several Union ministers, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and CMs of the BJP-governed states, party stalwarts L K Advani and M M Joshi will attend the two-day event here, BJP’s poster boy in the state and oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan said here on Saturday.
 
 “The PM and the entire BJP team will be here to thank the people of Odisha for their support in the recently held panchayat elections,” Pradhan told reporters here. From a distant third position in 2012, the saffron party has emerged the principal challenge to Naveen in the recent polls capturing the zilla parishad in eight of the 30 districts.
 
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi has often talked about east India focus in his governance, of which Odisha is the gateway. BJP sees tremendous growth potential in Odisha for two reasons: The apparent rising anti-incumbency against Naveen and deterioration of the Congress here. Since Odisha goes to poll simultaneously with the Lok Sabha, the saffron party feels the Modi wave will help it sail through easily if it manages to make the next poll a direct contest with the BJD ending the cycle of triangular contest that invariably benefited the BJD.
 
 It still won’t be a cakewalk for the BJP here as Naveen still enjoys immense popularity. Though BJP is euphoric after the panchayat election performance for its elevation to the Number Two slot, the BJD continues to holds its ground strong by winning more than 50 per cent Zilla Parishad seats.
 
 The BJP had earlier announced party president Amit Shah will be here for three days in April to bolster party base at the grassroots level. The same has been postponed after the saffron party decided to hold the national executive here.
 
