NAGPUR: Though the   ( ) created vacant space around the trees to avoid choking, it sealed the space completely by constructing a boundary of concrete, thus restricting the flow of rainwater to the roots of trees.

 At the newly-concretized West High Court (WHC) Road, a cemented boundary of blocks has been constructed around the vacant space. At some places, the space has been filled up with ornamental stones. On Monday, a joint inspection was conducted by   and officials of NMC’s garden department.
 
 After the inspection, the officials agreed to remove few blocks from every tree. “Though rainwater will get collected in the vacant space, it won’t completely reach the roots. The cement roads have been constructed with a slope to allow water to flow downwards towards the rain. If gaps are left between the blocks, the rainwater will flow inside and percolate to the roots,” founder of Green Vigil Kaustav Chatterjee said during the survey.
 
 He added that with concretization of roads, the groundwater table will also decrease. “These age-old trees will anyway not get sufficient groundwater. Thus the rainwater will be one of the main source for their survival. The process of percolation becomes slow after initial showers,” he said. 
 
 NMC garden superintendent Sudhir Mate assured that measures will be taken in other areas to avoid restricting the flow of water. While NMC will be creating gaps between the concrete blocks, it will avoid cementing the boundary around the tree in future. “Making a circular boundary with ornamental trees is a better option. Specific plant species that are not consumed by cattle should be chosen,” the   members suggested.
 
 There have been many cases previously where fully-grown trees collapsed due to severe choking. Experts have time and again pointed out that though rainwater is available just a few inches away from the trees, it cannot percolate into the ground due to non-availability of open space around its base. As per norms, a minimum of three feet space should be left around the base of a tree to facilitate water percolation.
 
