New Delhi: The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights is calling on the public to “speak up” against child sexual abuse and report  . The key point of the   is to create awareness about how complaints can be registered online to get a quick response from the authorities. 

 At least 12 cinema multiplexes in Delhi will show a video message in which Union women and child development minister Maneka Gandhi appeals to people to report abuse cases to protect children. In the message, an illustrative animation takes the viewer through the process of registering a complaint under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, on the POCSO online platform. 
 
 Since August 2016 when the POCSO e-box was launched, only 53 complaints have been received and the government is keen to establish it as the quickest request to the central government to get the states and police to act. 
 
  has collaborated with a private airline to create awareness among travellers, and Gandhi’s message published in the inflight magazine points out that “children as young as two months are sexually assaulted even within families”. Gandhi also states, “Children are often trafficked as child labour, used for pornographic purposes and suffer other forms of cybercrime, all of which deprive them of a happy childhood, opportunities of growth and development.”
 
 NCPCR is trying to rope in other airlines too. “We feel it is critical to reach out to people in public spaces such as airports and railway stations and spread the word that they need to act by reporting cases of child sexual abuse,” said NCPCR chief Stuti Kacker. 
 
 The civil aviation ministry and Airports Authority of India supported the idea and 66 airports have agreed to the awareness campaign. Besides Delhi, NCPCR’s message will be prominently showcased in Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Kolkata, Chandigarh, Ranchi, Gwalior, Mangalore, Guwahati, Thiruvananthapuram, Tirupati, Allahabad, Vadodara, Bagdogra and Dibrugarh. 
 
 The pilot effort with 12 cinema multiplexes in Delhi will soon be extended to other states,” an NCPCR member informed. Kacker, in addition, has also approached the Railway Board to join the campaign.
 
