PUNE: He was a   author and an   who pioneered creative writing based on nature. His work as an author earned him the prestigious Sahitya Akademi award. Even so, very few know of the rich film heritage that renowned author   left behind.

 In association with the National Film Archive of India ( ) and Aashay Film Club, his family has planned a retrospective of four of his films on April 8 and 9 to mark his 90th birth anniversary celebrated on Wednesday.
 
 “While Tatya (as Madgulkar was fondly called) is famous as an author, very few know that he has penned the story, screenplay and dialogues for as many as 35 successful Marathi films. He even acted in a couple of the projects. I’ve wanted to bring this aspect into focus but I was unable to get prints of old Marathi films. We’ve finally succeeded in doing so thanks to NFAI director Prakash Magdum and Aashay’s Satish Jakatdar,” said Dnyanada Naik, Madgulkar’s daughter.
 
 The films ‘Manini’ and ‘Mukkampost Dhebewadi’ will be screened on Saturday while ‘Sangtye Aika’ and ‘Bangarwadi’ will be shown on Sunday. Noted filmmakers Sai Paranjpye and Amol Palekar will attend the inaugural and valedictory functions respectively at the NFAI auditorium.
 
 “The films we have chosen reflect the span and variety of Tatya’s work. ‘Manini’ highlights the social issues while ‘Sangtye Aika’ is a true representation of rural and Tamasha genre,” said Naik. In fact, ‘Sangtye Aika’ ran for two years in theatres, a record later broken by ‘Sholay’.
 
 Madgulkar would completely detach himself from the films once he finished writing the story, screenplay and dialogues. He would never see them. “The only exception was ‘Mukkampost Dhebewadi’ and that is why it has been chosen for the retrospective. Finally, the film ‘Bangarwadi’ has been included since it was Tatya’s last film,” Dnyanada Naik added.
 
 Bangarwadi was based on Madgulkar’s novel of the same title, which has been translated into English and German. “Tatya had sold the rights of Bangarwadi to V Shantaram’s Rajkamal Studio but the film could not be made. Some years down the line, theatre director Ebrahim Alkazi and noted filmmaker Mrinal Sen also wanted to make a film on Bangarwadi but Tatya did not have the rights. Eventually, Rajkamal Studio resold the rights to him and, in 1995, Palekar made the film. Tatya was especially happy because a Marathi actor-director was doing it,” Naik recalled.
 
 Madgulkar’s love for nature has reflected in almost all his creations. A majority of his sketches were of trees, animal and birds. 
 
 “When SP Bhagwat published the deluxe edition of Bangarwadi, Tatya drew all the sketches himself despite his poor health. His hand would shake and there were times when he drew each sketch 25 times before finalising one,” Naik said.
 
