THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With just one company evincing interest, the   will have to float another tender to get a good operator to re-launch its arts and crafts village at Vellar near Kovalam. It is the second project of its kind in the state after the successful one at Iringal in Kozhikode that showcases Kerala’s traditional handicrafts and ethnic products.

 The bid was to develop and upgrade the village on the 3.472 hectare near the famed beach destination and to operate it on lease for 15 years before transfer. The department, in fact, had opted for retendering as it could also get only a single bidder earlier, and the deadline for submitting the technical and financial bids had ended on July 14.
 
 “We now will have to retender the project, which is aimed to provide professional management and coordination of activities including upgradation of the existing facilities at the crafts village,” tourism director P   said.
 
 Started as a joint venture of   units a few years ago, the village was meant to give unorganized artisans a platform for producing and marketing their products and to attract ‘cultural tourists’. However, it failed to achieve the desired results. Though the department revamped the village at a cost of Rs 10 crore a year ago, mismanagement or lack of professionalism turned it into a ghost town.
 
 “We have Iringal crafts village as a shining example where good investment was made. All the shops are occupied and, most importantly, tourists are visiting the place. A good operator, who can ensure professional management and coordination, is required at Vellar,” Bala Kiran added.
 
 The selected agency will have to conduct art and crafts exhibitions-cum-sale and entertainment activities based on traditional excellences, heritage, myths, skills and lifestyles. As per official figures, the craft sector in the state engages around 80,000 artisans producing around Rs 400 crore-worth products annually.
 
 According to tourism officials, Vellar, with its   (located 1 km from Thiruvananthapuram on the NH bypass between Thiruvallam and Kovalam), could play a vital role in showcasing the ethnic crafts of Kerala. Cultural tourists constitute around 90 per cent of visitors coming to the state, they say.
 
 The components of the project include a craft design and technology development centre and a state-of-the-art marketing centre. It is envisaged as a ‘major picnic-cum-shopping spot for city dwellers and tourists, who can interact with craftsmen and watch various processes of manufacturing’.
 
 The village already has a built up area of shops and counters (under entertainment and market zones).
 
