PATNA: Call it a time factor or ‘turn of event’, Prime Minister   on Thursday showered praise on Bihar CM   from the same venue where he had termed him an   three years back.

 It was at   where Modi, while addressing his first ‘Hunkar Rally’ on October 27, 2013, had launched a scathing attack on Nitish, terming him an “opportunist” who “betrayed and backstabbed” Jayaprakash Narayan, Ram Manohar Lohia and also people of Bihar for his prime ministerial dreams.
 
 “One who shunned Jayaprakash, why cannot he leave BJP? He fought all his life to free the nation from the Congress and the one who claims to be Lohia’s disciple has stabbed him in his back and is now playing hide and seek with Congress. Whether his followers will forgive him or not, the souls of Lohia and JP will never forgive his deeds,” Modi had said at the same Gandhi Maidan, without taking name of Nitish Kumar. Modi was attacking Nitish for snapping ties with the BJP in June 2013.
 
 But on Thursday, Modi mentioned Nitish several times during his address and praised him for making grand arrangements for Prakashotsava and enforcing total prohibition in the state. “Nitish Kumar has worked hard day and night. He oversaw the Prakashotsava preparations personally. He deserves credit for this mega event,” Modi said. He also termed prohibition as a ‘brave step’ for social change.
 
 Modi’s Thursday’s presence at Gandhi Maidan meeting was a complete contrast from his earlier ‘Hunkar Rally’ as far as law and order is concerned. While his Thursday’s visit passed off peacefully amid tight security arrangements, a series of   minutes before Modi’s Hunkar Rally address.
 
 Just minutes before Modi attacked Nitish for snapping ties with BJP, a series of low intensity bomb blasts had rocked Gandhi Maidan, leaving at least six dead and more than 60 injured. Modi had not referred to the blasts in his speech, but appealed to his followers to reach home safely. Of the eight bomb blasts, six had taken place in and around Gandhi Maidan and two at Patna Junction.
 
