NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution Control Authority (EPCA) has recommended that only BS-VI compliant vehicles will be registered April 1, 2020 onwards. This is one of the short-term priority actions   has highlighted in its final “Comprehensive Action Plan on Air Pollution Control in NCR”, which was submitted to SC on Friday.

 This recommendation has been opposed by the auto manufacturers in the apex court because according to the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers ( ), if EPCA’s recommendation has to be met, they will have to stop manufacturing BS-IV vehicles from April 2019 but BS VI fuel may not be available that early. The report has specified how much PM 2.5 (fine, respirable pollution particles), PM 10 (coarse pollution particles) and oxides of nitrogen (NOx) concentrations need to be reduced in   to meet the national air quality standards. It has made its recommendations based on IIIT Kanpur’s 2015 source apportionment study for Delhi. 
 
 The plan drafted in collaboration with CPCB scientists states that Delhi needs a 69.7% reduction in its PM 2.5 concentration to be able to meet the clean air standard. On the April 1, 2020 deadline, SIAM says, “This means we have to prepone the date of manufacturing by one year…fuel is expected only September 2019. BS VI production can only start from that date, thus leaving inadequate time for disposal of stocks.” 
 
 They have also opposed EPCA’s recommendation to equalise the prices of petrol and diesel since the latter is highly polluting and it shouldn’t be incentivised, according to EPCA. “There is no justification for such a fiscal recommendation that has nothing to do with improving air quality,” SIAM said. 
 
 With regard to the SC order on expanding CNG network, the auto makers have sought experts’ view. CPCB in its submission to EPCA has stated that the government notification regarding the implementation of BS-IV and BS-VI emission norms is applicable for vehicles manufactured on or after given dates, not registration of vehicles. The ministry of environment has asked for time to respond to the comprehensive plan.
 
 ‘Curb use of furnace oil, pet coke’ 
 
 The EPCA has submitted its final report to the SC on Friday recommending a complete phaseout of furnace oil (FO) and pet coke use in NCR. The report refers to recent inspections of 19 industrial units in the city carried out by   (DPCC).   found that FO was being used in seven units. These samples are being sent for further analysis. DPCC inspection found that the highly polluting Carbon Black Feed Stock is also being used in Delhi. “This is very dangerous, toxic and carcinogenic and its use must be stopped. DPCC has convened a meeting with industrial associations to inform them of the illegal use of this fuel and has designed five nodal officers for enforcement,” EPCA said. 
 
 Oil companies and many dealers are making use of the loophole in a 1996 notification that does not list these banned fuels, EPCA said. EPCA has trashed a National Environmental Engineering Research Institute report, which concluded that the formation of secondary particles due to FO and pet coke in NCR is not evident. 
 
 
