Dhruv Sangari, a vocalist in the Sufi tradition, came under the guidance of the incomparable  , and has drunk from the same mystical well as did the late, great Ustad.

 Sangari, fondly known as  , believes the   can apply a healing touch in our stricken times, when a truculently vocal minority is obsessed with demonising the other. “People want to pretend that everything is okay, but actually nothing is okay,” he agonises.
 
 “The Sufi and Bhakti thinking is inclusive, but the dominant thought of the day is that which looks to divide, to keep people apart. Our music can bring people together, because it has no agenda, it only seeks to spread oneness and love, to spread the message of humanity.” It’s a message that is many centuries old, but is needed now more than ever.
 
 Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan embodied such a message through song, and Sangari is happy to follow the example of the qawwal legend, who readily embraced the Hindustani classical music traditions. “It’s very important to have a training in classical music, as it gives you a deeper understanding of all the forms,” he maintains.
 
 Because, ultimately, the many forms of music that have their provenance in the Subcontinent, from Baul to Bollywood, all flow from the raag. “A raag is eternal,” believes Sangari, adding that the qawwali itself has become a classical form, enriched as it has been by blending and experimentation, and by all the give and take.
 
 “The qawwali, Nusrat Khan saab would say, is a song of two styles – the folk and the classical, travelling together, side by side. It’s like a meeting of rivers, and you can take water from any river.”
 
 For Sangari, the journey continues. Reconciliation, he feels, can only come from a reawakening of the Ganga-Jamuni ‘tehzeeb’, that intangible civilizational idea which has, for the best part of a millennium, been part of the fabric of the land that is India. “A culture has been created and adopted, very consciously, from the time of Amir Khusro, and continued by those who came after him, all the way till Allama Iqbal. “Through our music, we want people to remember this culture, and revive these traditions in their hearts.” For, he says, it will be a great tragedy if this syncretic culture is allowed to be torn apart by religion.
 
 Sangari will be performing with his band, the Rooh Sufi ensemble, at the Aravali Biodiversity Park on March 11. The Gurgaon Utsav is being presented by the Arts and Literature Foundation in partnership with the Municipal Corporation of Gurgaon, and the Department of Cultural Affairs, Haryana, in association with ‘I am Gurgaon’.
 
