NAGPUR: Various issues on revision of  , including   and duration of teaching, came up for discussion during a conclave organized by the department of anatomy of NKP Salve Institute of   recently.

 The topic of the conclave was ‘Challenges in anatomy curriculum and way ahead.’ Dr DD Ksheersagar was the organizing secretary. Ninety-two delegates from Central India participated in the continuing medical education (CME) programme and discussed various issues on revision of the syllabus of anatomy that also highlighted modification in theory, practical examination, curricular reforms for histology, embryology, gross anatomy and genetics. 
 
 Dr Mangala Kohli, head of the anatomy department, Vardhaman Mahavir Medical College, New Delhi, was the chief guest. Dr MD Huddar introduced Dr Kohli. Dr Ksheersagar welcomed the chief guest and other dignitaries and explained the purpose of holding the CME. Dr Kohli stressed the need for reforms in anatomy curriculum and improving job opportunities for anatomists. Ranjeet Deshmukh, chairman of VSPMAHE, congratulated Dr Ksheersagar for organizing the CME. 
 
 Dr Kajal Mitra, dean, said that anatomy is the   and due importance should be given to it. Dr Vilas Thombre, vice-dean, suggested to take up the matter with MUHS and MCI for bringing changes in the syllabus. 
 
 Dr Kohli, Dr MA Kothari, Dr RA Kamble, Dr R Fulzele, Dr AP Kasote, Dr AS Rahule, Dr Anand Jamkar, Dr Yeshwant Kulkarni, Dr Deepti Sastri and Dr Ansari spokeat the event. Various sessions were chaired by Dr Ksheersagar, Dr MP Fulpatil, Dr K Palikundwar, Dr MK Tabhane, Dr Neelima Patil, Dr DP Onkar, Dr TD Golghate, Dr J Deshpande, Dr R Dehankar and Dr S Sonare. 
 
 A panel discussion was held in which Dr Ansari, Dr Lata Mahto, Dr Ashish Radke, Dr Kran Palikundwar, Dr Kulkarni, Dr Shobha Rawlani, Dr Neelima Patil, Dr Anand Jamkar, Dr Kirti Nemade, Dr TD Golghate and Dr Purva Ughade were the panellists.
 
 Dr AC Fulse, Dr Saleem Basheer and Dr Purvi Mishra worked for the success of the CME. 
 
