Dramatic sunsets that play out in the west sky, beautiful rockscapes that’s typical to the Deccan region, large open spaces to chill out at and most of all, clean, fresh air —these are just a few aspects that have been drawing city folk to the   of late. After lying neglected for years, with no one except local fishermen or cowherds venturing anywhere near it, the Shamirpet Lake and its beautiful environs got a new surge of life as more and more people started heading there for long drives and impromptu picnics. Add to that the fact that a few prominent universities mushroomed around the lake, it also turned into a hotspot for students to go for a run or cycle for a bit or just take a breather. However, things have turned awry at the lake off late due to heightened patrolling and policing, with the cops threatening to even block access to the lake for the general public. So, Hyderabad Times decided to visit the lake, assess the scenario and find out why this is happening.

 BAHUT CRIME HOTA IDHAR; IT IS NOT SAFE: COPS
 It looked like just another summer evening, with a handful of students taking selfies, a few couples strolling hand in hand, and some families sitting on the rocks and chilling. Nothing amiss. At around 5:15 pm, the police interceptor arrives with its lights blinking menacingly. A few constables alight from the van and start whistling to clear the place off people. Some get up, looking confused. Others ignore the cops, and continue chatting. Then the constables start clapping hands and calling out to people rudely: ‘Chalo, chalo...nikalo...’. Some, who had barely arrived there, try to protest. After all, sunset is still a good hour away. 
 But they are immediately shut up with threats. “Yahan bahut crime hota, tumarako nahi maloom kya? Yaha nahi aana,” a constable tells a young man, adding that they tried to dig up the access road to the lake to stop people from coming. “Magar phir bhi aa jare log...Yeh public place nahi hai...yahan nahi aana. Ab jao, jao....”
 
 IT’S ILLEGAL TO STOP US WHEN WE AREN’T DOING ANYTHING WRONG: VISITORS
 This has been a routine nuisance of late, say visitors to the lake. Karthik, a student from  , told us, “My friends and I usually go to cycle at the lake after college hours. But the other day, the cops shouted at us and asked us to immediately evacuate the place.” Ayush, a student of Bits, who is irked by the uneccessary policing around the area says, “The police has the right to act only if we are breaking a law. Unless and until there is a law that we shouldn’t go to the lake, the police actually has no right to stop us from hanging out here. I don't understand why they are doing this.”
 But the cops insist that this is necessary for the safety of people. A Sattaiah, Inspector of Police, explains, “It’s not safe to hangout near the lake after 6 pm. Once it is dark the place will be occupied by drunkards and gamblers.” 
 
 COPS SHOO AWAY PICNICERS, MAKE WAY FOR DRUNKARDS
 Well, the inspector sure seems to know what he was saying. Once the area is cleared of the p
 , the cops leave. As dusk sets in and the place gets dark, in come the first bunch of merry makers, armed with black plastic bags filled with beer bottles. (Now, that explains all the broken bottles strewn across the rocks and the lake) Funnily, it almost seems like the cops cleared the place only to make way for the drunkards. Tell them this though, and they get defensive. "Hum bahut short-staffed hai madam. We cannot man this area all the time... there are just a few of us and Shamirpet is one big area," one constable told this reporter, sheepishly. Balanagar DCP,  , meanwhile, shifted the blame on GHMC and anti-social elements. “Some people get drunk and even fall into the lake and die; a few such incidents have happened in the recent past as well. So as a precautionary measure, we are making this effort to prevent deaths. And, there is no proper lighting here so the possibility of illegal activities is more in this area. Only after developing the area into a tourist spot with proper safety measures like fencing by GHMC or local surpanch people, can allow people to hang out there.”
 
 THIS ATTITUDE IS THE BANE OF OUR HERITAGE SPOTS
 Instead of encouraging law abiding citizens to visit our lakes, parks and other heritage sites and instilling a sense of pride in them about the city, the authorities seem to drive them away, only to reduce these spots into becoming hangout zones for anti-social elements. And this very attitude has always been the bane of our city's lakes too, laments  , the Co-Convener of  . “It is ironic that the very police who are meant to protect the citizen and uphold law and order is coming up with pathetic excuses like these. This clearly shows their inability to handle antisocial elements. It is the fundamental right of people to come and enjoy the biodiversity of the water body since Shamirpet is one of the few remaining lakes with a rich biodiversity; no one has the right to stop people from enjoying it.”
 Preventing tourists from visiting a picnic spot is not a permanent solution, concur citizens. As BITS Pilani student Siddharth Metta says, “If the police force working for the safety of the people, they will focus on reducing crime at tourist spots; not use that as an excuse to harass people.” Kartheek Manavarthi, another BITS student, agrees, “One incident of someone’s drowning or committing suicide should not be used as an excuse to enforce a total blanket ban on people visiting a tourist place.” 
 Sricharan Reddy, a techie from Hyderabad adds, “First of all, Hyderabad doesn’t have too many green spots. And the few that are left seem to be infested with constables who only want to harass citizens. Instead of taking precautionary measures that allow people to enjoy safely, they seem to be shooing away people. I see no sense in this at all.”
 
 
 
