BHUBANESWAR: The assembly elections is still a couple of years away but the BJP seems to be getting into the groove early as it tries to dislodge the   from its almost two-decade old rule in the state. Leading the charge is BJP's poster-boy in the state,  , who on Sunday did not rule out the possibility of contesting the 2019 assembly election.

 "If my party desires I will contest. Whatever role the party assigns to me, I will carry that out... the party has to take a call... If I am asked to sweep the party office, I won't have a problem," Union   Pradhan told TOI when asked whether he could be seen contesting the 2019 Odisha Vidhan Sabha election.
 
 Pradhan, currently a Rajya Sabha member from Bihar, represented the Pallalhara assembly segment in Odisha (2000-2004). In 2004, he was elected to the Lok Sabha from Deogarh, Odisha. 
 
 Asked about the party's future in the state, Pradhan said the BJP is fast emerging as a force in Odisha. 
 
 "We have a committed vote bank. Moreover, under the progressive and dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, we are getting unprecedented support from people, particularly the underprivileged section of society. Various surveys and assessments after the 2014 election show Modi's popularity is increasing in states such as Odisha," said Pradhan, whose six-year Rajya Sabha tenure expires in 2018.
 
 "Modi's focus on eastern India, pro-poor initiatives such as subsidized cooking gas for the poor households have created a favourable mood for the BJP here. On the other hand, the incumbent government in Odisha has proved to be a big failure. The poor indicators on health, education and poverty are reflected in incidents such as the Dana Majhi episode and the Nagada malnutrition deaths. Our own assessment is that people's dissatisfaction with the Naveen government has reached its peak," Pradhan said.
 
 Ruling out a patch up with estranged ally BJD, Pradhan said: "Last month party president Amit Shah gave a very clear message to the cadres to work towards dislodging the incumbent government here in the 2019 elections. The BJP will not go into a coalition with the Naveen-led party." 
 
 Talking about the panchayat elections, the minister said they are not worried about the results and that it would set the stage for the 2019 Lok Sabha and assembly elections.
 
 
