As shock waves continue to reverberate after Infosys techie   OP’s murder on the  , the company is striving to show that preventive action is being taken. Having already decided to revisit its management policies, the firm has now started self-defence training for female employees on campus and is planning to invite a third party to carry out an audit of its security system.
 
 An employee, requesting anonymity, told Mirror, “The decision to provide self-defence training was taken after the gruesome murder on Sunday. Female employees have been urged to voluntarily opt for the programme and there are no registration fees. The sessions will be conducted twice aweek inside the campus.”
 
 The first session has already taken place this week and while employees see it as a welcome step, the general consensus is that additional safety measures need to be taken. Another employee told Mirror, “Self-defence training will come in handy during a crisis. But, the company needs to take all manner of security measures to ensure that employees do not have to depend on self-defence in the first place.”
 
 The management has also stated that apart from self-defence training, various other measures are also in the offing to ensure security inside the campus.
 
 One of the most glaring facts of Rasila’s murder was that she was called in to work alone, according to the roster. Now, the company is reworking the rosters and will ensure that no employee is asked to work alone during a shift.
 
 “Apart from the rosters, the com- pany management has also decided to deploy additional security personnel, which will include female guards. We are also working on increasing the vigil of these guards on every floor,” company officials said in a statement.
 
 Security guard Bhaben Saikia had managed to enter Rasila’s work space and killed her on January 30. After the incident, several questions have been raised over the verification process of security guards deployed at the company, prompting Infosys to carry out athird party audit.
 
 “The audit will be carried out through a third-party security expert. Apart from this, we will also be taking the help of local police and will seek their advice on security measures to be taken on the campus,” Infosys officials stated.
 
 ¦ Self-defence training will come in handy during a crisis. But, the company needs to take all manner of security measures to ensure that employees do not have to depend on self-defence in the first place
 
 — Infosys employee
 
