PUNE: The proposal to reduce employees and as well as employers’ contribution to Employees’ Provident Fund ( ) from 12% to 10% was defeated unanimously in the meeting of central board of trustees here on Saturday.

 The representatives of employees’ unions, employers’ unions and the state government strongly opposed the proposal to reduce the employers’ contribution. Employees contribute 12% of the basic salary (excluding allowance), and employers chip in with a like amount — a part (8.33%) of which is also set aside in a separate employee   scheme.
 
 EPF contributions are mandatory for people earning a basic salary up to Rs 15,000. A proposal to increase this to Rs 25,000 is being discussed in policy circles.
 
 Asked if this meant that the proposal would be nipped in the bud, M Sathiyavathy, secretary, ministry of labour and employment, said, “The employers, employees and state government representatives have all expressed reservation about it and they feel the contribution must continue at 12%. That is their view and it is recorded. The government will take a view on it.”
 
 Trade unions termed the proposal as “pro-corporate and lacking in merit”. They also rubbished the argument that this was proposed to bring EPFO contribution on a par with other savings instruments like the National Pension Scheme.
 
 “If you have to bring something on a par, then the government must think about raising the bar of other funds and not bring EPF contributions down,” said A K Padmanabhan, vice-president,  . Sankar Saha, general secretary,  , called it a “retrograde step,” and a “move that would only favour corporate houses”.
 
 Surprisingly, as the proposal was tabled, even employers’ representatives and those from the   (CII) and   and Industry (FICCI) opposed the proposal.
 
 This prompted Sathiyavathy to ask, “If none (employers) of you want, where did this demand come from?” Trade unions expressed surprise that this was mooted by the labour office.
 
 The EPFO has 4.2 crore subscribers from about 8 lakh establishments across the country. It manages a total corpus of Rs 11.50 lakh crore.
 
 
 
 
