MANALI: With at least two cases under   Act being registered by Kullu police every week,   and  , including largest state-wide campaign to eradicate cannabis few months back, seem to have failed to put a cap on drug production.

 Himachal government was sure that the state-wide campaign to eradicate cannabis and poppy plants with help of all departments, panchayats and NGOs will bring fruitful results but Kullu district, home to the best charas in the world, had no impact on production. The campaign that ran between August 22 and September 5 last year reported destruction of 1.25 cannabis plants from 5,000 bighas land in Kullu.
 
 However, large numbers of cases of charas seizure have sent the authorities into a tizzy as cannabis is still being cultivated. Sources said some people are still into cannabis cultivation, while Nepalese labourers, outsiders and foreigner nationals are suspected to be funding the locals. Police said charas from other states or countries might have been brought into Kullu for further distribution in the name of Malana charas to fetch better prices.
 
 A Nepalese, identified as Tek Bahadur, was arrested on Saturday after 2.5kg charas was recovered from his possession. Police are now interrogating him to know the source and destination of the consignment. Dozens of Nepalese have been booked in recent years for carrying charas. Remote villages of Kullu, especially of Parvati valley, are notorious for charas production.
 
 Police claim that   other than charas like heroin, brown sugar and cocaine are being brought in by peddlers. Kullu SP Padam Chand said the Nigerian drug kingpin Oke Chikku Matthew has been remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. “He was arrested on February 13 from Delhi with 1.5kg heroin. He used to supply heroin to many places including Kullu. Police are trying to reach the main supplier and his helpers,” the SP said.
 
 Malana cream (charas) is famous worldwide and Kerala gold (ganja) is famous in India. Oil extracted from cannabis seeds is very expensive and is used in Kullu for cooking. A US national Visvamber Isiah Streisand was arrested with 126kg ganja and over 10 litre hash oil near Naggar village of Kullu on Friday. Padam Chand said the accused is in police remand and will be produced in court on Monday.
 
 
