NAGPUR: The first Orange City International Film Festival will be held from January 27 to 29 at Kavikulguru Kalidas Auditorium of Persistent System, IT Park, Gayatri Nagar, and PVR,  , Mahal. The festival has been organized by Orange City Cultural Foundation.

 The inaugural function of the film festival will be held at the auditorium of Persistent System at 5pm on Friday. Filmmaker Ramesh Sippy will be conferred OCIFF award for outstanding contribution to Indian cinema. Eminent littérateur Mahesh Elkunchwar will be honoured with Orange City Cultural Foundation award. 
 
 After the inaugural function, ‘Slack Bay | Ma Loute’, a movie directed by  , will be screened. 
 
 The second day of the festival at Persistent hall will begin with the screening of ‘Thimpu’, directed by Chandra Kumar, at 10.30am. This will be followed by ‘Cursed House’ directed by Kaushik Ganguly at 12.15pm. ‘Factory Girl’, directed by Mohamed Khan, will begin at 3pm. At 5pm, ‘Student Live Action 1 comp: The Stepmother, Tenants, Kanche, Exodus, Angelus Novus, Andhere Mein’, will be shown. Later, Rajesh Mapuskar and noted film director Jabbar Patel will deliver lectures at 7.15pm. 
 
 The last day at Persistent hall will have shows from 10.30am to 5.30pm that include ‘Lost in Munich’ directed by Petr Zelenka, ‘The Land of the Enlightened’ directed by Pieter Jan De Pue and ‘Lady of the Lake’ directed by Haobam Paban Kumar. Elkunchwar will deliver Nilu Phule Oration at 4.15pm. This will be followed by ‘Closing Ceremony Depth Two’, directed by Ognjen Glavonic. 
 
 The third day shows to be screened at PVR, Empress City Mall, from 9.15am onwards, include ‘Goodbye Berlin’, ‘Lathe Joshi’, ‘Streets of Memory’, ‘Godless’, ‘Liniers The Simple Lines of Things’, ‘Ekte Chaar Band’, ‘Villa 69’, ‘Post-Haste’, ‘An off Day Game’, ‘Dashakriya’, ‘Excuse My French’, ‘Nati Khel’, ‘Babylon Sisters’, ‘Heidi’, ‘Resurrection’, ‘Senna’, ‘The Irish Prisoner’, ‘Mati Madhil Kusti’, ‘Papers in the wind’, ‘Student Live Action 2 comp: Strange Bird, Homeless, Kalpvrisha, Pitter Platter Goes My Heart, The Patriot, Phoolpakhru, Everything will be OK’, ‘Cronopios and Famas’, ‘Cairo Times’, ‘Afghan Star’ and ‘Man on Wire’. 
 
 (Reporting by Konika Miglani)
 
