NEW DELHI: The first-ever detailed judgment by the special CBI judge O P Saini to be passed in the   spectrum case has resulted in a discharge. The judgment raises questions over the manner of investigation carried out by the two probe agencies central to the entire 2G prosecution. 

 The strictness is apparent in the discharge judgement of the Special Judge Saini, who has censured government officials for giving oral statement contrary to the official record. They had orally made statements and blamed former telecom secretary and accused Dr J S Sharma, who died during pendency of the case, over the delay in grant of licenses to Chennai-based telecom promoter C  . 
 
 The court said, “The official record which is deemed to be correct and true shall lose all importance and wrong doers would have a hay day as by making oral statements they can accuse anyone and themselves go scot-free. In the instant case, everyone who was responsible for any delay, wrong doing or obstructive questions have been made a witness and has thus, readily and willingly made an oral statement, fully and wholly contrary to the official record.” 
 
 Calling it a “dangerous” proposition, the judge said it could strike at the root of rule of law and the Constitutional democracy as wrong doers could gang up against those, who, by the perusal of record, are innocent. The CBI had alleged that investment made by the Malaysian company   in   TV (P) Ltd was either an “overvalued premium” or “illegal gratification”. And the central probe agency relied on two valuation reports in order to build its case. Special judge Saini found the reports inconclusive reasoning they were based on too many “assumptions and presumptions”. 
 
 “These reports assume too much and prove too little. There is hardly any fact in these reports which can be put to legal proof. Linguistically these reports are highly hedged in the sense that in simple words, in legal terms, contents of these reports neither mean ‘yes’ nor ‘no’. There is no firm commitment to any statement of fact contained in these reports. On the basis of these reports, in the eyes of law, no definitive view can be taken, even prima facie. As far as law is concerned, they are of no value,” he said.
 
