NAINITAL: Renowned classical singer   is among more than 670 people who have signed a petition on ‘change.org’ urging Uttarakhand chief minister   to save the Naini lake from dying with its water level receding more than 14 feet below normal.
 
  According to experts, receding of water up to 7.5 feet below normal happens during summers, but 14 feet below normal is a major fall.
  
  The petition is also being circulated on various social media platforms, including Facebook and WhatsApps to gather support. Besides, with an aim to generate awareness among people about the Naini lake, and to bring more signatories on board, the petitioner is planning to organise a cleanliness drive of the lake’s vicinity on Friday, which is likely to be attended by district magistrate and other dignitaries.
  
   , a resident of Nianital, who launched the petition, said, “The initiative will help garnering people’s support to save the lake. I hope more and more people will join us in this campaign. We will also be organising a ‘silent walk’ on June 3 on Mall road at 10.30am to create awareness about the matter.”
  A WhatsApp group — ‘Citizens of Nainital’ — has been formed to take the campaign forward.
  
  Mudgal posted on the WhatsApp group, “Happy to be a part of this group. My mother and her family were from Kumaon so I am in part an Uttarakhandi. But even if I were not associated in this way I would do my tiny bit. I’ve just signed the petition and also forwarded it on FB. I’m terribly sorry I won’t be there on June 3 but please let me know if there’s anything else I can help with.”
  
  The petition also suggests ways to save the lake, including a unique ‘Tree Tax’, under which a compulsory Rs.100 contribution will be collected from all tourists and residents (per month) for planting trees beneficial to the local flora and fauna.
  
  According to a study, the depth of the lake decreased almost seven metre in the past 37 years due to illegal construction, sewerage and waste disposal. In 1979, the Geological Survey of India had measured the depth at 25 metre, but a recent survey conducted by the state irrigation department, the measured depth is 17.25 metre now.
  
  Ajay Singh Rawat (70), former head of the history department at   and a prominent crusader for the cause of lakes, had filed a PIL in the Uttarakhand high court in 2012, urging the court to convert Nainital into eco-sensitive zone to save the ecosystem of the area. “I extend my full support to the move and will do best of my abilities to save the lake and ecosystem,” said Rawat.
 
 Other suggestions include clearing of illegal construction at Sukha Tal “to renew the sub-surface inflow which contributes 53% to the Naini lake- by June end”, regulating number of vehicles to be allowed into Nainital on long weekends and from June- Aug, banning all vehicular entry barring locally registered citizens cars and taxis from Haldwani/ Kaladhungi, ensuring complete plastic ban, rain water harvesting by all hotels, hospitals, schools and any large private public institutions, solar power subsidy and implementation across all private and public institutions even household and immediate ban on new construction.
 
 Other water bodies in the surrounding areas, such as Khurpatal, Bhimtal, Naukuchiyatal and Saat-tal are also plagued by the same problem. Delta-like structures, known as ‘fangs’, have already emerged at the borders of the lake due to below normal depth and deposition of debris and silt on the bed, hampering the natural course of slow drainage from the water body through underground micro canal-like structures.
 
 Less rainfall in winters has compounded manmade factors including encroachment in the catchment area, and water supply from the lake shooting up to 16 million litres per day (MLD), compared to 5-6 MLD in the previous years.
