Krishnagiri: The district administration conducted a meeting to discuss about the integrated financial and human resource management system (IF&HRMS) at the district collectorate on Monday.

 Payroll of government employees, pensioners and allocation of government fund for various schemes will be computerised under IF&HRMS, principal secretary and the commissioner of treasury and accounts department Thenkasi S Jawahar, who was the chief guest at the meeting, said. “Officials can monitor and manage funds easily using the system,” he said.
 
 “The system will also make cash handling easy. At present, treasury officials struggle to handle various financial transactions, including government employees’ salary, pension and government funds for schemes. Using IF&HRMS, district treasury officers will be able to verify and monitor fund transactions by the click of a button,” he said.
 
 Talking about the difficulties faced by pensioners, Jawahar said currently, pensioner have to appear in person to submit personal details at district treasury offices. “After the new system is launched, they can submit personal details at ‘E-Seva’ centres,” he said.
 
 The government will soon launch a website for pensioners, using which they can upload or download applications and forms they require easily, the official said. “More than 23,600 district officials, who receive and disburse funds from the government, will benefit by IF&HRMS. Personal details, salary details, increment and promotion details of nine lakh government employees will also be uploaded in the system. It was launched in November 2016 in Chennai, Erode and Tiruvannamalai districts and was later implemented in several other districts in April 2017. It will be implemented in all the 32 districts before September 2017,” Jawahar added.
 
 District collector C Kathiravan headed the meeting. Additional director of IF&HRMS AB Mahabharathi, Vellore zone joint director for treasury and accounts department S Buvaneswari, Krishnagiri district revenue officer S Shanthi and other officials attended the meeting.
 
 
