KOLKATA: After the   passed the directive to play the   before the  , a   was dragged to the police station on January 31, for not   up during the anthem. It is the first such incident in the city.

 A senior research fellow at Indian Statistical Institute got involved in an altercation when a fellow movie-watcher raised an objection to his not standing up when the national anthem was being played before Shah Rukh Khan-starrer “Raees” at   Diamond Plaza on Jessore Road. The research fellow was apparently feeling dizzy and so could not stand up. But the other person took exception to it, calling it an “act of disrespect towards the anthem”. “I was at the theatre when this incident took place. Just after we had played the national anthem, a man came up to my office and told me he had complained to the police that a viewer hadn’t stood up during the national anthem,” said Rajesh Kumar Roy, manager of PVR Diamond Plaza. “He insisted that I, too, complain to the police.” But Roy did not approach the cops. “We can request a person, but can’t force him/her to stand during the anthem. But anyone against it can also complain to cops. The police came soon after. Along with the mall security officers, they met the research scholar inside the theatre, but he refuled to come out till the film was over.”
 
 The police left. “Once the film was over, the complainant again called the police. This time, the cops took both to the police station,” Roy said. Asked if the research scholar was ill, Roy said, “I was called only after the anthem was over. I didn’t notice any visible discomfort, though both were agitated.”
 
 Barrackpore Commissionerate DCP (Zone II) Dhrubajyoti Dey confirmed to TOI he had received complaints from both sides. “Two general diaries have been registered. The accused initially claimed he was unwell and so, couldn’t stand up,” Dey said. No FIR has been registered. Sources said a medical test revealed the research scholar suffered from hyper-tension-related problems. 
 
 The multiplex authorities are now in a fix about how to handle such situations in future. “We will request viewers to stand up, it doesn’t augur well if a person is well and still unwilling to stand. If he isn’t educated and not humble enough to follow the rules, we may ask him to leave the auditorium. We can also refund the ticket. If a person is disabled, he or she can always raise their hands, if they can’t stand,” said Ujjal Biswas, programming executive (east), PVR Cinemas. 
 
 But Subhasish Ganguly, regional director (east), INOX, made it clear that he wouldn’t go out of his way to complain to police. “We are custodians. If a person doesn’t stand up, we can’t force him to. Our job is to shut the auditorium door during the national anthem and ensure viewers don’t walk around in the hall. We are not authorized to lodge a complaint,” he said. 
 
 Priya Cinema owner Arijit Dutta does not seem that charitable: “Public will take care of a person if one doesn’t stand up. If someone brings it to our notice, I will complain to the police.”
 
 
