Panaji: In the second week of May this year, dentist Rachna Fernandes received a one-page handwritten letter through post. Signed in the name of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, a jihadi who was killed in an US air strike over Iraq around 2006, it asked her to pay Rs 2 crore or else she would be killed.

 The letter told her to tie a   on the board of her   and once it is done, they would get in touch with her. “We are keeping an eye on your clinic and residence,” said the letter.
 
 “I was scared for the first two weeks,” Fernandes, who immediately went to police to file a complaint, told TOI.
 
 On instructions from police, Fernandes tied a piece of white cloth on the board of her clinic and waited for the extortionists to contact her. For three days, she tied the piece of white cloth on the clinic’s board. “When they did not contact me, I removed it on the fourth day,” she said.
 
 A month passed and there was no further contact from ‘Zarqawi’ and his team. But on July 1, she received the second letter showering her with the choicest of abuses for not tying the piece of white cloth on the clinic board. “How can you not obey our instructions? If you don’t tie the white cloth again, then I will send a shooter, who will pump six bullets on you,” the letter, again signed by Zarqawi, said.
 
 “The second time, I did not tie the cloth,” she said.
 
 Fernandes is not the only women dentist to get these handwritten extortion letters. At least three other women   practicing in the Calangute-Candolim belt have received it—all signed by Zarqawi. The coastal belt of Goa is known for dental tourism and even have ‘dental holiday’ packages to lure foreign visitors.
 
 There have been three different FIRs registered by the dentists—two at the Calangute police station in Goa and one in Mumbai.
 
 Police investigations have revealed that all the letters were posted from Panaji and they suspect it is a prank played by some children to threaten the dentists. “We are investigating the case,” police inspector Jivba Dalvi said.
 
 Police had collected handwriting samples for analysis from people in and around these dental clinics. “But we did not find any match,” a senior police officer, who is part of the investigation, said.
 
 
