Visakhapatnam: The management of a temple in Gnanapuram has challenged the GVMC’s decision to demolish the structure on the plea of road widening works. Filed in the district court this week, the case will come up for hearing in early February.

 The Ernamamba Temple is located opposite St Joseph’s College in Gnanapuram and according to the Ernamamba Gnanapuram Welfare Association (EGWA), which looks after the temple management, it’s more than 100-years-old. Since the GVMC is carrying out road widening works and the temple was coming in the way, they had decided to demolish it. Already, the mandapam was removed in the last week of December, leaving only the deity in the temple structure.
 
 N Rajgopal, president of the association, said, “This 110-year-old heritage temple is a crowd puller and those from the eunuch community too come here to worship, especially on Tuesdays and Thursdays. This is the only temple in Gnanapuram area. We want the temple to be kept at a median while widening the road. The road is being widened to 7.5 metres. At least near the temple, road widening can be restricted to 4.5 metres. The popular temple generates a revenue of Rs 5-6 lakh per month. For the last 10 years, we have had a tussle with the endowments department regarding the temple and the government wanted to remove it from there. But if the temple is demolished or relocated, a century-old heritage will be lost.”
 
 “The suit against temple demolition has been filed in the principal junior civil judge court and will come up for hearing on February 7. There were no such road networks when the temple was built. While road widening is important for the public, at the same time, considering the sentiments of thousands of devotees who frequent the temple is also important. Under such a scenario, either the old temple structure can be retained as a median or the temple can be relocated to another locality, which would be easily accessible to public for visits,” advocate Kupilli Muralidhar, president of Forum of Legal Professionals and legal adviser to EGWA, said.
 
 
