BHUBANESWAR: In the aftermath of the confirmation of   in the region, several   in   did not serve eggs in the   on Wednesday. 

 A source in one such school said that parents had reportedly advised their children not to consume eggs served in those schools.
 
 "We discussed the matter with the chief district veterinary officer of Khurda district and he advised us to stop serving eggs in the meal. So we stopped serving eggs in schools in eight blocks of the district, starting from Wednesday," said Khurda district education officer, Brundaban Satpathy.
 
 Around 56 lakh children studying in classes I to VIII are served midday meals in as many as 65,000 government and government-aided schools in the state every day. Children are served eggs twice a week on Wednesday and Saturday. In some schools, paneer is served instead of eggs. 
 
 "Althought the chief district veterinary officer has said there is no health threat in eating eggs imported from outside and not produced within the one kilometre radius from the region where bird flu was confirmed, we have asked schools not to serve eggs in some areas. As a precautionary measure, we may stop serving eggs to children in the next few weeks," said the district education officer of Sundergarh district, Dhruba Charan Behera.
 
 Behera added that in Rourkela schools, paneer is served to children instead of eggs, so there is no cause for concern or panic. 
 
 Postive cases of bird flu were confirmed in a small zoo inside the Indira Gandhi Park and in the CISF campus in Rourkela on the first day of the year. 
 
 The state nodal officer for mid-day meals, Gangadhar Saho explained the rationale behind the move. "We have asked district education officers to take the decision of serving of eggs to children in consultation with chief district veterinary officers in their districts. However, there is no cause for panic and the bird flu virus does not transfer when properly cooked eggs and chickens are consumed," he said.
 
 Many parents in the big cities seem to be thinking that prevention is better than cure, especially after dead birds were discovered in Bhubaneswar as well.
 
 "I asked my child not to eat the egg served in school today. This is because, in the last two days, several crows were found dead in our area and it is better to be careful," said Rasmita Jena, a resident of Salia Sahi in the capital city. 
 
 
