PUNE: About 100 dilapidated wadas in the central areas of the city are vulnerable in the  , but the civic administration has not been able to demolish these structures as their residents are unwilling to move out. 

 The civic body has already demolished over 100 dangerous structures but as many others may pose a threat to hundreds of residents living in them. Of the 800 wadas in the city, 174 are in a dangerous condition, Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) records have said. 
 
 Most of these wadas are in Kasba, Somwar, Mangalwar, Budhwar, Guruwar, Shukrawar, Shaniwar, Raviwar, Sadashiv, Narayan, Rasta and Bhavani peths. Action has been initiated only against 74 wadas and the civic body has sent notices to 207 occupants. In some cases, notices were sent to more than one person in a wada. 
 
 “We are finding it tough to demolish the structures, because most of them are still occupied. People living there refuse to vacate so we are not able to bulldoze the structures,”  , executive engineer of building permission department, said.
 
 People don’t want to leave for various reasons, the main one being there is a dispute between the tenants and the owners and the tenants fear they will lose their claim over the property if they vacate.
 
 Thorat said the administration has urged the occupants to vacate the places, saying that the state government has assured them their space in the wada even after it is demolished.
 
 “If we leave the house and it is demolished, then we will lose our claim on the property. On the other hand, if we keep the premises occupied; even at the time of a calamity, we will be able to secure our claim. Hence, we continue to stay here,” a tenant, requesting anonymity, said.
 
 According to the state government’s move, the residents of the wada can keep their claims on the structures. They have to submit a certificate of occupancy. 
 
 Yogesh Samel, a corporator from  , said an amicable solution is the only answer to the problem. 
 
 “The people who stay in these dangerous building have their reasons,” he said.
 
 Some have emotional attachments, while some have stuck to it because they are at prime locations. The problem between tenants and owners is another reason for not vacating the place. A special mechanism from the civic administration to deal with these issues is needed, Samel added. 
 
 
