BENGALURU:   forecast muted revenue growth for the fourth quarter as customer spending budgets remain under check, headwinds due to restructuring in its India and Middle East business, and uncertainties in the healthcare business in the US due to president Donald  's decision to repeal the Affordable Care Act.

 The company, India's third largest software services exporter by revenue, said it expects revenue from its IT services business to be in the range of $1.92 billion to $1.94 billion, which translates to a sequential constant currency growth of 1-2%.
 
 The projected growth me ans Wipro expects to add just $39 million revenue in the current quarter and end the fiscal with revenue of $7.68 billion, a growth of 4.7% compared to last year. That is almost half of  's industry growth estimate of 810% and pale in comparison to rival  , which in spite of revising guidance three times this fiscal, still expects to grow at 8.4-8.8% for the year.
 
 For the third quarter ended December 31, Wipro reported a tepid 0.6% sequential rise in constant currency revenue, which is lower than the midpoint of its expected guidance range of 0-2% it provided in October.
 
 On reported basis, however, revenue dropped 0.7% to $1.90 billion.
 
 "We do not expect customer budgets to change drastically...we are restructuring the India and Middle East business, which will be a headwind in the near term. That kind of gets reflected in the overall results," chief executive   said on Wednesday.
 
 All of Wipro's business verticals, excluding energy & utilities, reported a negative growth sequentially for the quarter. The energy vertical, a drag on the company's results for the past two years, was the only bright spot, growing at 0.3%, helped by the recent rise in global oil prices.The communications business dropped 1.9%, manufacturing and technology 1.2% and healthcare 0.5%.
 
 "We had quite a bit of market share in the Affordable Care Act and unless some clarity emerges on what is going to be the regulatory scenario, most customers would not be spending much," Neemuchwala said, while CFO   added the uncertainty will impact "our ability to make revenue in this segment." 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Appirio acquisition took longer than expected. It was expected to close on November 1, but it was closed on 24th of that month. That's more an issue of revenue consolidation. Overall, from a business perspective, I'm quite comfortable on the traction we are getting for our strategic themes in our core business. But there is a bit of restructuring that needs to be done in some parts of our business ­primarily India and Middle East ­ that we have started.What you see is the net effect.The demand environment is good and we have started mining effectively . We had added a $100 million in the last quarter.
 
 
 
 The core engine is not the is sue. There are certain sectors that we have participated in that we are not doing well in. We have made significant investments in telecom and telecom equipment provider segment, of course energy is now starting to look better. But it had its own set of headwinds...We are seeing a lot of traction in BFSI and digital.
 
 
 
 In the Middle East, the business is changing quite significantly ­ it's becoming a market where they are manufacturing, localizing and the whole rhythm of the business is different. Keeping it separate helps bring in focus.In India, there are certain businesses based on the older business model that's no longer relevant. Due to cloud, digital, IoT deals, we need to have product-assisted service with our product partners. The whole business is changing and we are aligning ourselves to the new market conditions. There are certain government projects where we have seen challenges.
 
 
 
 I feel good about the changes on the delivery side. If you compare Wipro in 2014 and 2016, we went from 15 analysts' reports positioning us as leaders to 43 of them. It's a threefold jump. Now the focus is on the sales transformation. I feel quite good about it, with certain green shoots emerging. On the sales side, the team is being trained on how to sell digital, consulting and vertical-based selling. We have done a good job of demand capture and it's now about demand creation. We want to include more consulting professionals and solution architects and selling it in an integrated manner rather than by service line is important; evaluation of current team and hiring new people is part of sales transformation. We have had a good run on the operational side. The synergy effect of DesignIT and Cellent acquisitions is coming along well.   started off very well, but it's an external timing issue.
 
 
 
 When the Affordable care Act came, there were opportunities. The insurance payer, provider and insurers changed their systems accordingly . Whatever modifications happen, we have the domain expertise to help customers and intermediaries where they have to redo their IT systems. We need to know what the target state is to offer our services.
 
 
 
 We will see it in the 2018-19 financial year.
 
