GURUGRAM: A woman in her mid-twenties fought off an attempt by men to pull her inside an SUV at   on Monday evening.

 The 26-year-old had just got off a Volvo bus from Jaipur and walked a few metres from the stop for better mobile signal so she could book a cab, when the white Scorpio pulled up next to her. It was 7 pm, rush hour at Gurugram’s busiest junction. But that didn’t deter a man in the back seat from grabbing her hand and trying to pull her into the SUV. 
 
 The woman, who works as a consultant with an IT firm in Cyber City, returned home and wrote a Facebook post to describe those horrifying moments that would make any woman, and indeed any citizen, shudder.
 
 Later, when TOI spoke to her, she said no one had come forward to help despite her yelling and crying. She also said she was yet to file a police complaint (and was thinking whether to do so or not, apprehensive that her parents would get worried and ask her to return home to Jaipur).
 
 But she wrote a Facebook post and also shared it with a Gurugram women’s community to caution other women, coming as her experience did just days after the 
  . 
 
 Narrating what had happened on Monday evening, after she got off a Rajasthan transport Volvo, she said, “The road was packed and I was figuring out a way to cross it and book an Uber as the server was not connecting on the side I got off (the lane under the flyover).
 
 As she was crossing the road, the Scorpio stopped near her. Before she could make sense of what was going on, a man opened the back door, grabbed her arm and tried pulling her inside. “I gathered myself and put my foot on the door of the car and tried pulling myself back and I started shouting at the peak of my voice. Meanwhile, the signal turned green and the men sped away, throwing me on the road,” she said.
 
 She stood up as tears rolled down her cheeks. “It took a while to register what had just happened. Then I ran looking for a place with enough women around,” she said. 
 
 She said she also tried to file an online complaint but could not submit it as she did not have all the required information. “I could not see the number plate of the car and hence I only have partial information on details of the vehicle and information of the people in the car,” she said, adding she also went back to see if there were any CCTV cameras in the area but the spot is extremely poorly lit for any images to be captured.
 
 The SHO of sector 17/18 police station,  , urged the woman to file a complaint immediately and promised the police would help her in every way they could. “She can register the complaint over phone or online and we will start investigating,” he said.
 
 
