HYDERABAD: While luxury and 'supercars' do have additional safety features, many of them are not suitable to be driven on Indian roads, especially by untrained drivers, according to Geneva-based International Road Federation (IRF), a global   organisation. 

 IRF expressed concern over the death of Andhra Pradesh minister P Narayana's son Nishith and his friend Ravi in a road accident on Wednesday morning and called for proper training of drivers who sit behind the wheels of luxury cars and 'supercars'.
 
 P Narayana's son   and his friend were killed after their   SUV rammed into a pier (pillar) of the metro rail on Road No 36,  
 
 "Recent accidents involving supercars, mostly driven by wealthy youngsters, in various parts of the country including the one involving Nishith in Hyderabad, is a major cause of concern. As these cars have speeds in the range of of 200kmph and more and are also equipped with lots of control gadgets, drivers of these vehicles need proper training. 
 
 Normal drivers' training is not enough to drive these vehicles at high speeds, especially on unpredictable bends and turns that are found on Indian roads," said K K Kapila, chairman of IRF, while pointing out that more than 1.45 people were killed in road accidents in India in 2015, with driver's fault being the prime reason.
 
 According to Kapila, many of the powerful, foreign-made luxury cars, that have been imported by Indians at a very high prices, are not designed for and hence are not suitable to be driven on Indian roads. 
 
 While these luxury and 'supercars' do have additional safety features such as brake assistance and systems in place to reduce the impact of accidents, details about these safety features are often not explained properly to the buyer, by the car dealer, say road safety experts.
 
 "High-end cars have many safety features that the car dealer often glosses over, while closing a purchase. High-end cars can reach a 100 kmphr speed in a span of six seconds and this is why it is extremely difficult to instantly control the speed of these cars," said Vinod K Kanumala, CEO of the Indian Federation of Road Safety (IFROS), adding that during the rainy season there is a high risk of accidents as roads are slippery. "While civic authorities must take appropriate measures such as ensuring that roads are not slippery owing to water logging, individuals can take certain measures such as ensuring that there are no oil leakages from vehicles and that their tyres are in good condition. 
 
 Speed control must also be enforced by   fiercely," he said. 
 
