LUCKNOW:   Gayatri Prajapti remains on the run while his   head constable Chandrapal Singh, a co-accused in the case, was   by the police on Monday.

 Police action came hours after the Supreme Court refused to stay the arrest of Gayatri who is absconding for a week since an FIR was lodged against him and six of his associates on the directions of the apex court on February 18. With the minister’s gunner in custody, investigators were hopeful of some specific leads in the case to arrest the minister. 
 
 Minister for transport in Akhilesh cabinet, Gayatri is facing arrest after a non-bailable warrant was issued against him in cases of alleged gang-rape and attempt to rape a woman and her minor daughter. A look-out notice was issued against Gayatri following apprehensions he might flee the country and his passport was also suspended. 
 
 In the initial questioning Chandrapal, who was posted with the security wing of the state police and attached to the   as his official gunner, claimed he was not aware of Gayatri’s whereabouts. “He will be produced in court on Tuesday but will be subjected to proper interrogation with regards to his whereabouts till his arrest and location of the remaining accused including the minister,” said deputy inspector general (DIG) Lucknow Range, Praveen Kumar.
 
 Police, along with teams from the Special Task Force (STF) are learnt to have conducted search in Delhi, National Capital Region (NCR) and three districts of Bundelkhand in search of the minister but in vain. “We have leads and are working on them,” said a senior officer associated with the investigations, adding, “It is just a matter of time before we lay our hands on  .” 
 
 With Gayatri’s police gunner custody, police have turned the heat on other co-accused in the case. One of the accused Ashok happens to be a Lekhpal posted in Amethi and is reportedly absent ever since the FIR was lodged in the case. Rupesh, a secretariat employee and serving as the minister’s personal secretary, along with Vikas, son of an additional city magistrate posted at Lucknow are also reportedly on the run. Police are also on the lookout for another co-accused Amrendra, Gayatri’s constituency representative, along with a contractor Ashish.
 
 
