Chandigarh: The court of additional district and sessions judge J S Sidhu has dismissed the bail plea of Sukhpreet Singh, a resident of Bathinda, in the   scam. The court while dismissing it on Saturday ordered that allegations against the accused were serious and he appeared to be a habitual offender as two similar cases were pending against him.

 The defence counsel argued that the accused had been falsely implicated in the matter and the court should not rely on the statement of a co-accused in the case. It was also argued that he had been in custody since July 23 and wasn’t required for further investigation. The counsel further said that some of the co-accused were already on bail, hence he should also be granted the same.
 
 The prosecution, however, opposed the bail and argued that the accused was working with the main accused and played an active role in leaking the papers. Besides, the investigation in the matter was still pending. It was also mentioned that there were two more cases against him in the state. Hence, the bail application should be dismissed.
 
 The teachers recruitment examinations, for which the papers were leaked, were held in January-February, 2015. Vigilance officials explained that the examinations were conducted at Panjab University, while question papers were printed in Delhi. Agents of Guruji and two other men, Dinesh Yadav and Suresh Yadav, were posted to facilitate the question paper leak. Shiv Bahadur, the government press employee, was the one who helped the gang leak papers in Lucknow and New Delhi. The question papers were sold for a price ranging between Rs 10 lakh and Rs 40 lakh.
 
 On July 29, last year, Chandigarh police had registered an FIR in the case pertaining to recruitment of 1,150 JBT, TGT and NTT teachers. It was the vigilance bureau which exposed the scam with the arrest of Dinesh Yadav and had written to Chandigarh education secretary and IGP to register a case in this connection. In the FIR, the vigilance had stated that at least 19 candidates had access to the leaked question papers. The entrance test was held for 682 posts in the department of local government on November 15, 2015. More than 67,000 candidates took the test for different posts, including for that of JE, assistant corporation engineer, assistant municipal engineer and SDE.
 
 The vigilance during interrogation came to know that recruitment scam also involved jobs in the local bodies department, Punjab. Guruji was the kingpin and had collected over Rs 12 crore from the scam. After the first FIR was registered, the government had cancelled the selection of assistant municipal corporation engineer, assistant municipal council engineers and SDEs in the department of local government. Panjab University has been blacklisted for conducting any selection test for Punjab during pendency of the investigation. The court had earlier also dismissed bail applications of many accused.
 
 
