RAMAYAN (Hisar):   (AIJASS), which is spearheading the   for reservation, might have appealed to the protesting members of the community to stay away from the highways or railway tracks during agitation, at Ramayan village near Mayyar in Hisar district they are mostly are camping right next to railway tracks and the national highway.

 Associated for long with Jat quota agitation, the site is considered as the launching pad of Jat reservation movement in the state in 2010. It had also witnessed first killing of a youth in 2010 for reservation.
 
 Protestors are barely 50 metres away from the railway track connecting  , other major cities and around 500 metres away from the National Highway Number-10 (now re-designated as NH-9) connecting Delhi with Fazilka.
 
 One of the organizers, Ram Bhagat Malik, claimed that around 10,000-15,000 people would gather at the protest site on Sunday. Alarmed by the call given by AIJASS to hold ‘Balidan Diwas’ on Sunday, the local police administration has made elaborate security arrangements to avert any tragedy.
 
 Meanwhile, claiming that the situation was under complete control, Hisar police range IG O P Singh said that they were in regular touch with the organizers and were assisting them in holding peaceful protest. “Police have no ill-will against the protestors, as they have right to protest in a democratic manner. But we are closely monitoring the gathering at protest site to identify and segregate people with criminal mind so that the peaceful environment is not spoiled,” Singh added.
 
 Regarding deployment of heavy police force, he said that these were pre-cautionary measures to ensure law and order was maintained.
 
 As many as four companies of paramilitary forces, including riot control force, rapid action force (RAF), CRPF and several companies of Haryana armed police, district police and around 1,000 home guards volunteers have been deployed to control the situation on Sunday. The district administration Hisar on Saturday suspended the operation of state transport buses between Hisar-Delhi and Hisar-Panipat
 
 Prep points
 
 Organizers of the protest on Sunday asked the women to come in large number. Sources in intelligence confirmed that the move is to keep women on front line in case situation turns tense
 
 Special food has been prepared including sweets like Jalebi for Sunday event.
 
 To reduce the tension in the area, Hisar range IG have been organizing sports tournaments in various villages to make rapport with locals and normalize the situation
 
 Organizers claimed that police and administration are threatening villagers including sarpanch and nambardars to restrain people from attending Sunday event.
 
