Panaji: Former Union minister   has hit out at the present BJP-led coalition government in Goa, calling it the “most unrepresentative government” the state has ever had, with six of the eight cabinet members elected on an anti-BJP platform and only two elected on a BJP ticket. Stating that it was “unprecedented in Goa’s history and a disgrace”, he challenged the ministers to define ‘Goenkarponn’.

 Addressing a press conference at Congress House in Panaji, on Wednesday, Faleiro said, “The interests of everyone need to be protected”. He condemned tourism minister Manohar ‘Babu’ Azgaonkar’s remark on Lamanis saying, “You cannot abuse any community. Nationhood is not yet inside all of us”. 
 
 He accused chief minister Manohar Parrikar for taking a “U-turn” on the special status for Goa. Faleiro said he had told the state assembly on numerous occasions that the “special status was required to protect Goa’s limited land mass and to resolve the problems created by migration and not for any financial package”. He was refering to Parrikar’s recent remarks at a press conference where he is reported to have said that “the central government has sanctioned projects of 20,000 crore to Goa. When so much money is coming, why do you need special status?”
 
 Faleiro said the state government has the required powers to restrict purchase of agricultural land and impose restrictions on purchase of land and property. “Goa should follow the example of Maharashtra where the Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands Act prevents a non-agriculturist from purchasing agricultural land in the state. It’s a simple provision that needs to be enacted,” he said. 
 
 The National Security Council Secretariat has cautioned that real estate projects run by foreigners in Goa might be involved in drug trafficking, gun trade and prostitution, and that some foreign drug cartels are attempting to turn Goa into a base for their activities. “The government should immediately scrutinize all land deals by foreigners and if there is any illegality, confiscate the property and impose punishment on the offender and his local associates,” Faleiro said.
 
 He suggested the state appoint inspectors to oversee implementation of the acts governing migrant workers and direct builders and labour contractors to provide residential accommodation, sanitation and other facilities to workers engaged by them. “All migrants should be registered in panchayats and municipalities and the state should hold a yearly audit of all contractors who employ migrant workers,” he said. 
 
 
