MADURAI: With   shrinking by the day due to the intense heat and  ,   are finding it difficult to meet the   of more than four lakh livestock in the district. 

 In order to meet this acute fodder shortage, the district administration has advised farmers to take up hydroponic fodder cultivation in small levels at homes. Recently, officials from the animal husbandry department displayed maze, millets and pulses grown on trays without soil during the farmers' grievance redressal meeting held at the collector's office.
 
 Collector K Veera Raghava Rao said hydroponics could be very useful to small dairy farmers having one or two milch animals and they can provide green fodder at an affordable cost. Each tray costs around 200 and if farmers grow millets on 10 trays, they will be able to provide nutrient-rich fodder to the animals, he said. 
 
 The   has impacted livestock equally and all efforts have been taken to safeguard them, said the collector, while adding that the state government has started dry fodder depots at ten places in Madurai. "Dry fodder has been given to dairy farmers at a subsidised cost. In order to provide green fodder to cattle, hydroponics could be useful," he said. 
 
 Joint director of animal husbandry M Balachandran said that the department has been promoting hydroponics among dairy farmers as it does not require much water when compared to conventional farming. "So far 112 farmers have shown interest and we have displayed the method at the State Government Annual Chithirai Exhibition which commenced few days ago," said Balachandran. 
 
 Farming community leader V R Muthupeyandi, of Pullaneri village, said that raising fodder through hydroponics is ideal for small dairy farmers or big dairy farms where the method can be adopted in a large scale.
 
  "It is good that the district administration is attempting new methods to provide fodder to cattle. But medium size dairy farmers with two to four milch animals may find it difficult to spend their time and money on hydroponics," said Muthupeyandi. 
 
 
