INDORE: Hauling up police for a “highly polluted” investigation, a   has acquitted two engineers who were falsely implicated by police for preventing a   from discharge of duties.

 It’s evident that engineers Gaurav Nigam and Sudhir Sharma were taken into custody by police and beaten up before being let off without their arrest being registered, the court observed. Medical reports of the duo’s injuries were hidden by police officers, which were brought out during the trial, say sources.
 
 Following their acquittal, the two engineers plan to move high court to sue police for defamation. “Their lives and careers have been ruined by the police. Gaurav suffered a heart attack. Sudhir has been facing problems finding a suitable match. Both of them have been living with the constant fear of being jailed,” their counsel, K K Kunhare, said.
 
 The court noted that Banganga police had accused Gaurav and Sudhir under five bailable sections and four non-bailable sections of IPC but while they showed that the duo got bail in the bailable charges, they were labelled ‘absconders’ in the non-bailable ones.
 
 The case dates back to December 2011 when complainant Rama Nigam, who had a long dispute with the two, went to police, accusing the engineers of trespassing her property and removing poles from her farm.
 
 According to police, when the then Banganga police station in-charge SI Shakya, ASI Virendra Singh, and constables Mangleshwar Singh, Gyanendra Singh and Ravindra Singh Bhadoriya went to investigate, the two engineers “abused the cops and attacked them, causing injuries”.
 
 “After this, according to the statement of some police officers, the two accused were arrested and brought to the police station, whereas some other officers told the court that they had fled the crime scene and were absconding. Going by the documents produced in court, the two had been bailed under bailable offences and ‘absconding’ under non-bailable offences,” Kunhare told TOI.
 
 The engineers allege that cops took them to the police station on a false complaint by Rama Nigam and beat them up severely. The two claimed that police did not record their arrest so that their injuries won’t have to be exhibited before the court.
 
 While acquitting the two in an order released on March 18, by additional chief judicial magistrate Keshav Singh observed that investigation in the case was “highly polluted”. The judge questioned the testimony of prosecution witness Rama Nigam and questioned why SI Shakya did not appear in court in the case.
 
 The acquitted duo has written to the home department, DGP, DIG and additional DG, seeking action against the erring police officials within 15 days.
 
