As a New Year begins for our nation’s globalized generation, the challenges and contradictions faced by its politically diverse communities, in physical and digital spaces, will only increase. But liberal intellectuals like  , want ‘millennials’ to believe that this period of discomfort and change provides an opening for a new leadership that will emancipate India and inspire its people to rediscover its original nature; “that India is more than a country; it’s a civilization, which is internally pluralistic”.

 “The likelihood of Emergency rule in India is too strong and sensitive a situation to discuss with a diverse set of readers, and whether it materializes or not in the practical sense, we have already witnessed knowledge-producing institutions function under the climate of anxiety. De-institutionalization has certainly begun. The Parliament is weak, the media is nervous, the judiciary is depleted with non-appointments, the Armed Forces are injected with politics and the academia is silenced by vendetta. These are anxious times we live in,” says deSouza, admitting that the healthy discourse that we identify with democracy is diminishing in the country.
 
 The professor, who constitutes the distinguished faculty at the Centre for the   (CSDS), Delhi, says the braggadocio of the Centre must be countered, but asks, “Where are the palkiwalas to oppose the current tyranny in the country?” 
 
 DeSouza gave up a prospective career in science, after having graduated in chemistry from St Xavier’s College, Mumbai, in 1975, to pursue his masters in political science at Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi, inspired by the political environment then. “I consider myself to be part of the fortunate generation that was fighting for the emancipation of India. We felt we were involved in planning our country’s future,” says the doctorate holder, who took to the streets in support of many student movements protesting non-liberal and fascist governance nationally and internationally.
 
 Back then, in the 1970s, songs by the Beatles, Bob Dylan, Santana, Leonard Cohen, and others motivated him to stand up against any kind of tyranny —political, religious or intellectual. He says, “We must resist it and I have confidence in the youth. They won’t take nonsense for too long. The so-called ‘bhakts’ will have a change of heart when they experience contradictions between reality and ideology. This is the age of creativity. We, as a society, are argumentative, cynical and too complex to be ruled by one man. India has such an intangible cultural heritage, script and humour.”
 
 Born in Ahmednagar, Maharashtra, schooled in Nainital, Uttarakhand, and having travelled far and wide, deSouza developed the skill of, what he calls, ‘people watching’ at a very young age. “Wherever I go, I like to understand communities and cultures and how they organize their social life. Take for instance food, which is everyday creativity that we take for granted. Music is another element that defines society. I have begun to enjoy classical music of late, but jazz is more of a natural taste,” says the proud father of three children. deSouza married environmental economist Ligia Noronha, and often visits his home in Dona Paula from New Delhi.
 
 “Every time I visit Goa with anticipation and excitement, it just breaks my heart. It’s an eyesore. The political class politicians and bureaucratshas vandalized our coastline and the real estate lobby has its aesthetic sense all messed up. There is nothing more offensive than to deny a Goan access to the beach. Goa needs to be reclaimed from these vandals as an emancipatory and creative space, a hub for production of ideas, a melting point of east and west philosophy. All these must be encouraged through state policy, not bigoted leadership,” says the sexagenarian, who taught political science at Goa University from 1987-2003.
 
 The political theorist currently holds the Dr S Radhakrishnan Chair of Rajya Sabha and has served as an expert and consultant for the UNDP, World Bank, ICNRD and other international organizations. He has also edited four books and writes regular columns for popular national dailies. The former director at the   (IIAS) says his two terms in Shimla were a “magical experience” and he felt proud to take his Goan cosmopolitan approach to an institute dedicated to thinkers and social scientists.
 
 “It is really fascinating when you realize that the visionary former president S Radhakrishnan, at that time thought of dedicating a home for the knowledge community, where ideas are produced freely, without worrying about how relevant they are for immediate benefits,” says deSouza. A star-gazer himself, he started a Mahabharata and a Gandhi school at the institute, also known as Rashtrapati Niwas.
 
 DeSouza agrees that Goa is experiencing immense migration, as many like himself perceive opportunities elsewhere; but the trend is not always a disability, because many creative and artistic people are relocating here. “Goa has the potential to be a more egalitarian society. Goa is an idea, not a physical space, and an idea needs continual renewal. Festivals on literature, art and culture are the best way to counter any negative tendency of tyranny. Casinos, on the other hand, are a source of banality. This year is our opportunity to reclaim Goa from the vandals planning its future and put an end to the banality descended on our land,” says deSouza, who is opposed to the idea of a knight in shining armour rising to “fight the communalism that the present regime is fostering”.
 
 
