TRICHY: A   to identify the mother of a calf ? Why not, say cops manning the   station in Tiruvarur district who were driven to nuts by two farmers claiming ownership of a calf. After their best efforts to identify the calf and its "real mother" went in vain, the cops told the complainant as well as the counter petitioner to go for a DNA test to arrive at a final decision. 

 Police said  , 55, farmer and a native of   near Muthupet had been rearing cows and bulls in large number. It was usual for him to make his cattle graze on the Koraiyaru river bund beside his house. He used to untie the animals in the morning and bring them back in the evening. Sometimes, the animals stayed put on the river bund itself for two to three days. Following complaints that his cattle were roaming around paddy field and destroying crops, he started to tie all the animals beside his house. 
 
 It was at this juncture that one Rajarathinam, 50, a farmer of  , visited Mathiazhagan's house on December 26 in search of his calf which had gone missing three months ago. He claimed that a three-year-old calf he had seen there was the one he was searching for. However, Mathiazhagan categorically denied the claim and said he had been rearing the mother cow for many years as well as the calf. After an altercation, they decided to solve their problem amicably with the help of police and subsequently lodged complaints separately.
 
 "We tried to solve the issue and asked them to come to terms. However, both of them were adamant on their stands" , said inspector Kabeerdass, the investigating officer of the case.
 
 Police asked Rajarathinam to bring his cow and Mathiyazhagan both the cow and its calf to the station. They tried to identify the real pair by letting the calf go to its real mother. The calf went stright towards Mathiyazhagan's cow which started to lick the calf while the cow owned by Rajarathinam started to charge at the calf when the cops brought it nearby. With this, the police concluded that the calf was indeed Mathiazhagan's. However, Rajarathinam refused to budge and again approached the police. This time police told them to go for the DNA test and return with the result. Both have accepted the idea, Kabeerdass added. 
 
