CHANDIGARH: They turn into characters from the Ramayana after dark, and go back to being regular people when the spell breaks. Fireman, cop, and supervisor by the day, and Dashrath, Lakshman, and Kumbhkarn by the night, Avtar Singh Maan, Sukhdeep Singh Sukhi, and Paramjeet Singh Pun like the magic of this Cinderella life.

 The   play their part in carrying on a  . Meet Avtar Singh Maan. People know him as the Kumbhkarn and Hanuman of Sector 20. Maan has lived in Chandigarh all his 51 years and been a UT fireman for 25. “I became a fireman by default,” he says, “but since my college days, was interested in politics. And all politicians have an actor in them.”
 
 His love of   began in 1997 when a friend took him on a hop through backstage activities before Dussehra. “I was always a little round,” Maan said. “They first picked me for the role of a mantri (minister) in the king’s court before considering me for the parts of Hanuman and Kumbhkarn, for which I have won prize all over Chandigarh.” The   also serves in various gurdwaras with devotion.
 
 "When I am a fireman at day, I serve the people of my city. When I don the make-up at night, I serve faith.” He lives with his two sons in Sector 46, and this year will play Kumbhkarn, the sleeping demon, in Sector 20.
 
 Sukhwinder Singh Sukhi (38) is academic supervisor at the Sector-25 Aakash Institute but more popular as Lakshman, who follows beloved elder brother Lord Ram and Ram’s wife, Sita, into a 14-year exile. “I always had a passion for acting for as far as I can remember,” Sukhi said. “I only needed to feed that love.” He lives at Nayagaon with his wife and two sons.
 
 Sukhi’s first role came by chance. “A friend took me along to Ramlila auditions in 1996 where the director had one look at me and decided that I’ll play Lakshman,” he said. In 18, Sukhi has played Dashrath and Shabri as well, worked in theatre and short films, with absolutely no background or training in acting. “It’s God’s gift,” he says. During the nine days of Ramlila, the religious-minded man sleeps on the hard stage at Sector 20 until 6.30am before he goes home.
 
 “When Lakshman left home with Ram and Sita, he was celibate for the entire 14 year. For nine days, I also stay away from my wife. I must have no distractions, and must focus on my character,” he said. “I need the day job to run my house. But if a bigger stage calls, I’m game for it.” 
 
 A turbaned Sikh constable from Batala tehsil of Punjab’s Gurdaspur district, Paramjeet Singh Pun not only plays King Dashrath at Sector 20 but also has been the Ramlila director for five years. “Azaad Dramatics Club and Ramlila Committee found me fit for the job,” he said. In Chandigarh Police since 1997, he is in the security ring of a Punjab and Haryana high court judge. His father retired as a Haryana Police inspector in 2003.
 
 An active cleanliness campaigner in the sector, he has been playing Ram, Bharat, Lakshman, Meghnad, and Dashrath all these 17 years with Ramlila but his favorite part is of Dashrath. He lives in the sector with his wife. “Ever since I started directing,” he says, “Our Ramlila has won the awards for the best Ram, Hanuman, and Sita in Chandigarh.” The best prize is satisfaction.
 
