NAVI MUMBAI: It’s ironical that   (MJP) that is credited with many   in the state including Morbe dam, principal supplier to NMMC, has not had any major works since 2008.

 Projects were a slow trickle since 2000. The erstwhile water supply and sanitation board of the state government that was created in 1978 was rechristened MJP in 1996. "We were earlier state government employees, but since 1996 we are not. Our salaries and financial needs were obtained from a certain percentage of projects undertaken by us," said Devendra C Landge, president of a joint front of 11 associations spearheading protest against the state government.
 
 He has demanded that their deficit in the salary, pension and employee outgoings should be met by the state government.
 
 "Over 6000 employees have to struggle and put pressure for their monthly salary while some 300 who retired a year ago have not got their pension. Financial issues also pertain to lack of parity in dearness allowance and benefit accrual to those pensioners who are over 80 years old, Lande said.
 
 The superintending engineer, MJP circle New Panvel and president of a joint front of 11 associations ---   sangarsha samitee, Landge told TOI Wednesday, "we will work with black tape pinned on shirt pocket for four days till Saturday and thereafter stay away from work to register our protest."
 
 MJP supplies water to Cidco,   and JNPT. It has 25 waterworks project in urban areas and operates 27 projects in rural areas.
 
 
 
 
 MJP employees get salaries from a certain fund apportioned under establishment and from projects it undertakes. The body was created in 1996 by the then state government and several projects were taken up for execution. However, around 2000 projects were a trickle as it was taken out of the purview of urban development department. Landge said, "the central projects also eluded us and since 2008 only one project ----national rural   project is with us, but this project is implemented on a 50:50 basis by local bodies and by us. Besides, we make some profit by operating the waterworks projects, but there’s a shortfall and we would like the state government to take care of it." 
 
