NEW DELHI: Union minister   and her husband   have a great sense of humour, but it's the former's witticisms that most people are aware of because she's prolific on  . 

 Turns out, Kaushal too occasionally goes on a streak of busting out hilarious one-liners on Twitter - when he's in the mood. And he was recently very much in the mood.
 
 Someone asked Kaushal, who's a   advocate and a former   governor, why he doesn't follow his wife, Swaraj on Twitter.
 
 His reply was fabulous. 
 
  
  
 
 Kaushal's answer was referring to the fact that his wife, as external affairs minister, comes to the aid of Indians stranded abroad so many times, that one has lost count. So active is Swaraj on Twitter that if she's MIA for even a day, people begin to wonder if all's well. 
 
 Like this person who recently reached out to Swaraj's husband, asking if the minister was okay because she hadn't tweeted that day.
 
  
  
 Sure enough, Kaushal replied, again with his deadpan humour.
 
  
  
 Last year, minister Swaraj tweeted a picture of her and her husband holding hands, after she bumped into him in Parliament. 
 
 
  
 
 Before that, she posted a romantic photograph of herself with Kaushal on their wedding day.
 
 
  
  
 All of this probably made several people curious, like this one gentleman who tweeted Kaushal asking if he and Swaraj had had an 'arranged marriage.'
 
 Kaushal's reply was all class and humour. He wanted to shield his privacy but didn't want to be rude and not reply. So this is what he said: 
 
  
  
 
 In a similar vein, someone asked Kaushal recently when he'd last met his wife. His reply?
 
  
  
 
 This repartee delighted Swaraj's followers. One of them tweeted: "Must say! Both you and @SushmaSwaraj Ji have a great sense of humor. Must b lot of fun to be around you both". 
 
 Kaushal's reply to that was both modest and a teeny bit romantic too.
 
 
  
  
 
 For those who want to do some detecting, here's a hint about what kind of marriage the power couple had. 
 
 Last year, when somebody asked minister Swaraj why she doesn't follower her husband on Twitter, Kaushal jumped in to reply. "I have followed her for 45 years - Can't change things now." Married for 42 years but following Sushma Swaraj for 45? Go figure.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
