NAGPUR: Vijaya Rahatkar, President of   state  , said during a press conference on Sunday that there are around 27 lakh women who have fallen victims to   and 30,000 are being pulled in annually. 

 She was in the city to highlight the significance of the first state-sponsored two-day international conference on women trafficking held on July 27 and July 28 in Mumbai in collaboration with International justice mission. 
 
 Rahatkar, speaking to the scribes, said that Mumbai is second in the country with 10,000 women being brought into the city after Kolkata where the problem is highest in the country. 
 
 “It is a healthy sign that government has included the issue of women trafficking within it’s agenda of five year plan. This means that problem would be henceforth have a more comprehensive approach at the government level,” she said. 
 
 The state women commission president also said that maximum numbers of trafficking takes place from countries like Myanmar, Bhutan, Nepal, Bangladesh and such other countries. “Women are trafficked to countries like   as farm labourers and Arab countries as slaves including sex rackets. It is from Russian countries that women come to India for sex trades,” she said. 
 
 Rahatkar, former mayor of Aurangabad city, highlighted the significance of forthcoming international conference stating that around 100 experts from 25 countries who are considered an authority on the issue would be participating.
 
 “Around 1,700 representatives from various bodies around the globe would be coming to share their experiences on trafficking. The commissions, committees and all such highest level bodies, including NGOs, pertaining to women, child and human rights in the states along with the ministers of the state and centre and secretaries of the concerned departments including ministry of external affairs shall also participate,” she said. “The main aim of the conference is to brainstorm on the existing government policies, the pending bill on the trafficking and current approach to the situations. We shall compile a set of suggestions and present it before the government for drafting them in the future policy-making decisions,” said Rahatkar.
 
 Despite being interrupted by ruckus created by NCP workers, Rahatkar managed to throw light on the role of police in tackling the trafficking situation. “We need to create a code of conduct for the police while dealing with trafficking related crimes,” she said. 
 
 Rahatkar stressed on the fact that changing the outlook of the society, approach of the criminal justice system and government policy is required for rescue and rehabilitation of the victims. “Government or any particular unit or agency cannot be blamed or held responsible. All the concerned forces are required to come forward with a wholesome approach to tackle the situation,” she said. Rahatkar pointed out that rehabilated victims have went on to become air-hostess and gram panchayat chiefs too after being restored in the mainstream.
 
