Until a few months ago, the most happening spots in the city were the free   zones. But that has slowly started to change, and these places are now wearing a deserted look. This is primarily thanks to the mobile service providers who have come up with plans that offer high-speed internet at competitive prices. Shruti Jain, a hostel resident near Geeta Bhawan, who is pursuing her engineering says, “Gone are those days when we used to go to the I-bus stops and eateries to access high speed internet. One of my roommates has purchased a wi-fi device that offers  . And the best part is that 20 mobiles or laptops can be connected to it.”

 
 
 
 Besides this, the network that   (Bus Rapid Transit System) has been making use of to provide free internet services, has also come up with its own SIM cards. Sudish Pardeshi, a media graduate shares, “There are many free wi-fi zones close to my house. I used to go to these zones to download sample test papers and practice sheets that have audio and sometimes videos too. But since the networks have made SIM cards available, downloading has become easy for us. When get the same facility on our phones, so why go out and waste time?”
 
 For a different perspective, we got in touch with BRTS, and Mayank Sharma a supervisor at BRTS says, “I have been working for BRTS for three years and there is a 50 per cent decline in footfalls at the wi-fi zones. But the speed of our wi-fi cannot be compared to any other network. A bulk of the people who gather at wi-fi zones usually those who live nearby. And while they have reduced, commuters are still using it and are happy with the services.”
 
 
 
 
 The AICTSL ( ) has been coming up with a number of other services to keep commuters happy. They have installed LED TVs at all I-Bus stops and in the buses too. Mohini Bansal a working professional says, “The connectivity of the buses is good that you get a bus every 10-15 minutes. We feel it’s better to watch TV while waiting for the bus rather than connecting to the internet, because each time we connect, we need to register through a different ID and password. I see people just watching TV and eating snacks from the vending machine instead.”
 
 
 
 
 Mayank also hints that the cold winter evenings are a possible reason why locals are not turning up like they used to and Vivek Jain, who operates a tiffin centre near the Vijay Nagar I-Bus stop agrees. “The climate is definitely one of the reasons why youngsters aren’t turning up these days because the internet here is the best. Once your device is connected, an entire movie can be downloaded in just a few minutes.”
