A candidate in the mid-city area recently requested a family to press the button beside the clock symbol on   (EVM) on February 21 — the polling day for civic elections

 A few minutes later, she returned and said, “Sorry. I asked you to press the button before a clock — the NCP symbol — by mistake. It’s an old habit. Please forgive me. This time, lotus is my symbol because I am with the BJP. Vote for the BJP.”
 
 This BJP candidate is not alone in her struggle to shed the old colour and opt for the new ahead of elections. Many sitting corporators and new entrants into the electoral fray have swapped parties in the past few days. Some decided to switch loyalty because the party refused to give them nomination. A few did so unhappy with their parties for not nominating their kith and kin.
 
 In Katraj, a Raj Thackeray loyalist joined the BJP when the polls were announced. He wanted to contest, but the party offered ticket to his wife because the BJP already had a candidate there.
 
 Now, the former MNS leader and his team are busy pulling down the MNS hoardings and posters. The old identity has become a headache for him. He and his team are scouting every corner of the locality to remove his identity as an MNS leader.
 
 A former NCP veteran from Nagar Road, who has represented the party for decades and held top posts in the   (PMC), is finding it tough to get rid of his ‘loyal’ image after joining the BJP. His new party’s workers are not accepting him and his old party workers are not supporting him.
 
 The case of Reshma Bhosale has become very popular in the city. The sitting corporator is the wife of NCP MLC, Anil Bhosale. The latter got the second term as MLC only two months ago. He wanted second term as corporator for his wife. But the party decided to give a chance to another party worker.
 
 Reshma filed nomination as the BJP candidate and the party endorsed her candidature despite having its own candidate. The Opposition took the matter to the court. Finally, Bhosale has to contest as an Independent candidate.
 
 All these years, Anil Bhosale has been elected a corporator. He was made the leader of the party in the PMC and now he is serving the second term as NCP MLC. His supporters are finding it difficult to convince voters why he made his wife to revolt against the party and join the BJP.
 
 In the mid-city area, a sitting BJP candidate approached the   after his party refused him ticket. The Sena gave his wife nomination.
 
 The corporator had placed lotus symbol everywhere — from roads to toilets — in his ward. Now, he is replacing lotus with the Sena’s bow and arrow.
 
 “The party loyalty and devotion to ideology are bygone things. Today’s politicians are power agents. They will join the camp giving them power and using that they will reap all kinds of benefits. Power agents are loyal to power and not to any leader or party,” said political analyst Suhas Kulkarni.
 
 Citizens are disillusioned. “Where ever you go, you meet the same set of people and the same kind of governance. Only flags and names will be different, the ground reality for common people will remain unchanged,” said Abhishekh Bhosale, a professional.
 
 The BJP’ state unit chief, Raosaheb Danve, defended the turncoats, saying, “The party loyalty is important, but electoral merit is equally important. We have to consider this factor in electoral politics.”
 
 Not surprisingly, the Pimpri Chinchwad BJP is full of NCP leaders ruling the twin cities all these years. Now, they have shunned the mother organization and have joined the BJP.
 
 State minister and Shiv Sena leader Vijay Shivtare said, “When we were in talks with the BJP for an alliance, we started discussions with its leaders in Pimpri Chinchwad. For a moment, I felt I was talking to the NCP leaders because there was hardly any original BJP leader there.”
 
