I am a 25-year-old man and work in a financial services company. I suffer from partial vision disability. I am popular and friendly with girls, but the problem is whenever a girl gets to know about my handicap, she starts to have a different attitude and becomes sympathetic towards me, even though I ensure I always show that I am at par with others, besides some barriers of nature which I can't do anything about.

 I feel depressed at this sympathy and feel inferior even if though I am successful in life. How do I get over this hurdle in my life? - By Anonymous
 
 
  The world appears the way we perceive it. Our relationships feel the manner in which we perceive ourselves. The question you need to ask is, " Am I in a subtle way asking for sympathy?" Or " How do I consider myself- a successful financial services consultant who does not consider his partial vision as a disability, but as natural as the color of his skin?" Remember 'as inside, as outside." 
 
 You have written that you are popular with girls, indicating that they find you interesting, humorous, witty, socially attractive and intelligent. These qualities exist independent of your partial vision. Women generally are more sensitive, caring and helpful and may wish to help you a little more because they feel more concerned. This does not in any way mean that they are acting or faking their love or care for you. It could be equally genuine but it's possible that you feel embarrassed when the girls come to know about it. This feeling may make the girls express themselves differently. 
 
 Stop feeling sorry for yourself first. You have used the words handicap, barrier, disability, inferior and hurdle indicating that somewhere in your mind you consider yourself NOT OKAY. This attitude needs to change for others to see the strength, grit and determination you gave. 
 
 Let me share a story of my patient Ravi, who was diagnosed with leukemia. The cancer was in stage four and doctors had given him three weeks to live. He was in Chennai for treatment, when a nurse in his ward fell in love with him. She told him that she cares for him. Ravi thought it was his condition that had made her feel sympathetic and just brushed her aside feeling sorry for himself. The nurse persisted and told him, that she loves him and wants to marry him. He was shocked to hear this and actually felt angry at her audacity as she knew he was going to live for just three weeks. The nurse was serious and a week later they married. She decided to take Ravi to a Cancer Hospital at Valsad which uses Ayurveda as a mode of treatment. The nurse tended her husband gently back to life with love and care. It's been three years, and Ravi has recovered completely. If Ravi had continued to reject the nurses love as sympathy, would he have survived? 
 
 Stop thinking of yourself as unworthy of love, and consider sympathy as a precursor to love in certain situations. Begin seeing and speaking from the heart, then you will see further into the heart if another and not get entangled in word games. Please don't reject a wonderful friendship on this pretext... nourish it and watch it grow to love. 
 
 
 
 
 Want expert advice for your relationship? Send us an email at expertadvice.toi@gmail.com
 
 
