HYDERABAD: Your favourite `Jonna Rottey' (jowar bread) will not be the same again. If the city-based   ( ) has its way , the Indian market will soon be flooded with genetically modified or transgenic jowar.

 Four years after launching research on transgenic sorghum, the IIMR has successfully developed genetically modified jowar with Bt genes for better grain size and resistance to pests. The IIMR's admission that it has created genetically modified (GM) jowar has taken farm and health rights activists by surprise. They demand that the Central government stop the release of GM jowar for human or animal consumption.
 
 Jowar, long considered as a poor man's food, is now in high demand with the rich and the middle classes preferring to savour   to fight high blood sugar levels. Only recently the transgenic variety of mustard, an essential ingredient in Indian kitchens, received the Centre's nod for release in the market. The harm the GM jowar would cause to humans and animals will be far more than the GM mustard as sorghum is consumed in large quantities all over the country , rights activists warn.
 
 The IIMR's official site takes pride in stem borer-resistant transgenic sorghum plants through Bt technology . It has also developed “genetic transformation technology to suit the needs of Indian sorghum genotypes“.
 
 Expressing shock at the development of transgenic sorghum, the Southern Action on   Engineering (SAGE) on Friday demanded a “firm and unequivocal“ stand against   by the Centre. It has asked the Centre to clearly state that it will not approve GM jowar.
 
 SAGE, a coalition of farmers, scientists, environmental activists and civil society groups from South India, dashed off a letter to the Union minister of environment and forests. It said jowar offers complete food and nutritional security to people in dry lands across the country . It also provides rich fodder for cattle. It accused the IIMR of “succumbing“ to international temptations by the GM lobby . The recent development of GM mustard by Delhi University and the development of GM Sorghum of IIMR are results of the Global Food Security Act, it alleged.
 
 It pointed out that sorghum plants are fascinating tapestry of biodiversity warning that introduction of GM genes into jowar fields would result in the death of the grand biodiversity .“The case of Mexico, the origin of maize biodiversity where an accidental introduction of GM maize killed the maize diversity, must offer a clear lesson for India, warns SAGE convener PV Satheesh.
 
