THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The first ever performance audit conducted by the   (CAG) on the   (KPSC) has unearthed  . The CAG report on social and general sectors for 2015-16, tabled in the assembly on Monday, accuses   of not issuing notifications for jobs on time and violating principles of natural justice of disabled candidates. A delay of 11 to 77 months was noticed in the publication of notifications by the  , which delayed the selection process. 

 C  , principal accountant general (general and social sector audit), said the audit found that failure of KPSC to comply with provisions of Persons with Disabilities Act, 1995 resulted in denial of government jobs to disabled candidates who were eligible for selection. "KPSC had altered the eligibility criteria fixed by the Government of India for the disabled thereby denying appointment to people with disabilities which was a violation of rights and opportunities guaranteed by persons with disabilities act, 1995," the audit report said. 
 
 Citing the special recruitment for disabled to the post of assistant engineer in local self-government department, Gopinathan pointed out that KPSC issued notification reserving the post exclusively for the category 'Orthopaedic-lower extremities', when the government order stated that the post was suitable for all categories of locomotors disability/cerebral palsy, hearing impairment and low vision. Another injustice noted by the CAG audit was PSC's rule to permit scribes for candidates only with visual disability over 75%. The Government of India norms allow those with 40% or more visual disability to depute a scribe for test. 
 
 Though the Government of Kerala in 2014 suggested KPSC to go by the GoI norms and the high court later directed it to consider GoK's recommendation, KPSC reiterated in November, 2014 that only those having more than 75% visual disability can avail the service of scribe. Though the government asked KPSC to clear the backlog for vacancies reserved for the disabled and the process was on, PSC refused to share with the CAG the present status of recruitment. 
 
 It was also found that the PSC had not issued notification on at least 452 vacancies to be filled up against 128 posts in various departments. Data on pendency in selection to various services of the state from 2010 to 2015 showed that only 17-28% selections were completed within one year. Further analysis of PSC files showed that there was a delay from five months to nine years from various departments in reporting of fresh vacancies. General education, agriculture, forest and wildlife topped the defaulters' list. 
 
 
