VISAKHAPATNAM:   between the age group of 12-18 years appear to be immersed in technology with almost 68% of them saying the smart phone is their most important gadget and 59% access internet through 3G/4G connection on their smart phones, reveals a TCS  .

 Also, lot of the web content is consumed through a wide range of apps available for various purposes, the survey has pointed out. Interestingly, educational apps were found to be the most popular (66%) among Visakhapatnam teens, closely followed by gaming apps (60%) and instant messaging apps (51%). Entertainment apps (39%) are emerging as the next most popular app choices among the students.
 
 The survey revealed that 59% of students use the internet through 3G/4G connection on their smart phones while 62% of them primarily use internet at home through fixed line/Wi-Fi. With the increasing need to be connected wherever one is, an interesting trend shows that 14% of the students access internet through Wi-Fi at public places.
 
 Visakhapatnam teens were found to be simultaneously active on multiple social media platforms. Facebook (57%) followed by Google Plus (35%) continues to be the most popular social media, while other platforms like   (24%), Twitter (21%), and Quora (14%) are also gaining popularity, the survey pointed out.
 
 Social media being an important medium for interaction among the youth today, there is no surprise in the fact that these sites also play an important role in establishing friendships. As much as 31% of the teenagers have made at least 50 friends through social media sites.
 
 In what could be music to the ears of online retailers, 87% of Visakhapatnam youth shop online. Cash on delivery either using parent’s money (71%) or pocket money (30%) is the most preferred mode of payment.
 
 In a release, TCS vice-president and global head V Rajanna said, “It is interesting to note that online learning through educational apps is gaining popularity among the teens. Our survey reveals that generation Z of Visakhapatnam is an app driven generation that is highly connected, socially engaged and digitally influenced.”
 
