 and   surely had not anticipated the backlash that followed after they named their son  . On one hand, congratulatory messages were pouring in for the newly-turned parents, but on the other hand, social media went overboard criticizing the stars’ choice of name for their son. Saif and   battled the rough weather with the poise and grace that’s natural to them.

 However, in a recent interview with Delhi Times, the ‘Rangoon’ actor revealed that he did contemplate “for a second” about changing Taimur’s name. “You know, actually - I haven’t told anyone this - I thought for a second about changing his name. For a couple of weeks. And Kareena was a little against it and she said, ‘People respect you for your opinion and you can’t’... So I said, yeah, but it’s not about people. I don’t want him to get unpopular. And I still might, maybe when he’s one or two, I might change his name in a while, it’s still sinking in, what to do,” he said.
 
 Saif further added how he even drafted a note explaining that they are changing Taimur’s name, but aborted the idea when he realized that he is doing it “for the wrong reason”. He revealed, “Someone in my PR agreed with me, and we drafted a small letter. And when I read it, it was so pathetic, that I cancelled the idea. Because it was really like, uhh, ‘I’m sorry’, and ‘I didn’t want to offend’ and ‘I’m an idiot’ (laughs), and you know, I've given in to pressure. It just sounded awful. However you write it, it just wasn’t sounding right. It was like I didn’t realise where I live or what I’m doing. So I did think about it. I thought about it, but it was for the wrong reason.”
  
  
 The Nawab of Pataudi added that he has made up his mind on this subject, at least for now. “A part of me has realised that if a select few are happy with you, universal acceptance is not required because this kind of populist approval means something scary. I would rather have a handful of people whose opinion I respect, agree with me, that's enough. I don't want universal approval if it's going to require me to pretend,” he said.
  
  
 
 
