GURUGRAM: Ever wondered how when you have surfed for something on an e-commerce website, your search stalks you in various other sites you browse, as ads? Gurugram boy   (14) wanted to get to the bottom of this. 

 During his research, he disovered this happens because of cookies, which are strings of data that can contain anything from a name to an user’s credit card information. “If you search a site for something, it will take the information for advertisers. It can be used for malicious purposes too,” said Nagpal.
 
 His interest and inclination towards technology has won him the Google’s Web Rangers initiative in India. The results were declared by   on February 7, which is also Safe Internet Day. As part of the contest, young kids were asked to create and run their own online safety campaigns in the form of social campaigns, posters, videos and apps. Winning entries were judged and selected based on creativity, reach and impact.
 
 The theme of the contest was ‘Young minds to drive awareness about Internet safety’. “Many of the Internet users in India are coming online for the first time. We need to simplify and amplify ways by which they can stay safe,” said Chetan Krishnaswamy, director of public policy,  .
 
 “Safe Internet Day provides for an important opportunity to engage and encourage young users across the country to learn more about keeping themselves as well as their peers and families safe online,” he added.
 
 Nagpal, who has now become a Google ambassador for safe surfing, said, “With the rise of digital startups and cashless transactions in the country, it is important that we spread awareness about digital literacy and Internet safety. And I am happy that I can contribute in this regard.”
 
 His video is now likely to be used by Google itself to spread awareness about the importance of digital literacy. Along with Nagpal, Ashutosh Sahni (17) from Jalandhar, Krishna Pandit (14) from Noida, Nitika Gadura (13) from Bengaluru and Sarthak Gupta (13) from Delhi were also chosen as the top five national winners among thousands of entries received from students across the country.
 
 
