BHOPAL: In an effort to deify chief minister  , Madhya Pradesh   dubbed Chouhan as ‘god’ on earth. Shah said he has never come across a sensitive person like Chouhan.

 The minister seemed to be following the footsteps of Chouhan who stated that Prime Minister   is ‘God’s gift’ to India. Taking a dig at Shah’s statement, opposition Congress has termed his remark as “height of sycophancy”.
 
 “Janm Se Lekar Matyu Tak Garib Ke Liye Sochne Wala Insan/ Upar Bhagwan Aur Dharti Par Shivraj Singh Chouhan” (Like God in the heaven, Shivraj Singh Chouhan is a man on earth who constantly worries for the poor from their birth to death), Shah said.
 
 “I can challenge if anybody could bring another person like him (Shivraj) before me. If anybody does it, I would quit politics. I am not saying this because he is my boss, but because I have not seen another sensible person like him in my entire life,” added Shah while addressing a gathering in Hitgrahi Sammelan (beneficiary convention) in Khandwa, on Wednesday.
 
 Shah, who is usually known for his controversial statements, has shown a complete gamut of human emotions to adore the chief minister. Four year ago, in 2013, Shah courted a major controversy for his alleged sexiest remarks. Shah had allegedly made a passing reference to Sadhna Singh, wife of chief minister Chouhan, during a speech in Jhabua.
 
 Following the statement, Shah was summoned by the then state BJP president Narendra Singh Tomar to his residence to clarify his position on the matter. Though Shah explained the circumstances in which he gave the speech, it did not go down well with the BJP leadership and he was eventually asked to quit.
 
 This time, Shah has given the opposition Congress another chance to take a dig at the ruling party. Congress has sought Chouhan's reaction on the statement. “Of late, chief minister said he is a worshipper devoted to serve the people, prayed as a priest. However, in less than 10 years Chouhan has all of a sudden turned into a demigod,” said Congress state spokesperson Sangeeta Sharma.
 
