HYDERABAD: Water crisis continues to haunt residents living in various parts of the city. Right from the gated communities dotting Hyderabad's IT corridor to the homes in the  , people rue how they have been forced to either make do with limited supplies or shell out thousands of rupees to buy water from tankers. 

 "We are forced to pay as much as 3,000 per month over and above our regular maintenance fee as the borewell in our community has dried up. It is true of most others living here. I request the authorities to fix the water woes immediately so that we don't need to battle with our finances," said Jaya Shree D, a resident of KPHB. This is one of the most affected areas by the water crunch this season. 
 
 The condition of communities a little away in Chandanagar is even worse. This, as the borewell water flowing into their homes here is laced with pollutants, courtesy the contamination of the   that is a victim of constant pumping of sewerage into it. "The quality of water is deteriorating day by day due to the discharge of sewer water into the lake. Sadly, the same water ends up being supplied to our households which is of no use. Hence, we have no choice but to buy water," said,  , an environmentalist from Chandanagar.
 
 Lashing out at builders for digging deep borewells, residents complained how the practice has only further added to the crisis. "Many builders are digging an additional 500 feet or more for no reason. They have made a mess of the water situation," said another resident of Chandanagar, on condition of anonymity.
 
 On the other side of the city, residents of MP colony in   too are fighting a similar battle. Not only have they not being receiving any water supply for the last four days, there is also constant flow of sewer water flowing in their lanes. 
 
  "I have requested the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) officials to fix the issue but in vain. They have turned a blind eye to our concerns," said Singireddy Swarna Latha Reddy, corporator of Saidabad Division, another area faced with acute water crunch. 
 
 When contacted, officials of water board said the scarcity was owing to the over usage of water during summer. 
 
