CHENNAI:   M G Ramachandran was all set to give his main   , the  , a gift three days ahead of its birthday.

 On September 13, 1979, he along with his aide Panruti S Ramachandran met his arch-rival M Karunanidhi and Murasoli Maran at the state guest house to finalise the merger of the DMK and the  .
 
 The ice was broken and the old camaraderie resurfaced when MGR and Karunanidhi, who had known each other closely for 30 years, met separately. They had a heart-toheart talk for 40 minutes and agreed to unite. After that, MGR went to Panruti's T Nagar house for lunch. That evening, however, at a public meeting in Vellore, MGR ruled out any merger and said the AIADMK flag would fly high for a thousand more years. The next day, Karunanidhi flew to Delhi to strike a deal with Indira Gandhi, who had hounded him during the Emergency , against the AIADMK.
 
 Karunanidhi has gone on record to blame Panruti for MGR changing his mind. On the eve of MGR's 100th birth anniversary , Panruti told TOI that he indeed convinced MGR against the merger. “But for me, the merger would have gone through. I told my leader that MGR fans would be treated like servants in the DMK,“ Panruti said, detailing for the first time what transpired between him and MGR.
 
 “We fought the 1977 elections against each other with such vehemence and enmity that in every village we were sworn enemies,“ Panruti told MGR. “Leaders may come together, but how could the cadres come together? Blows had been exchanged and bitter fights had broken out over property. How could they reconcile?“ That convinced MGR. Despite the intense rivalry, MGR was the one who mooted the merger idea, says R Kannan, whose upcoming book is a biography of MGR. “He had always been a reluctant politician. Acting was his first love. Thrice during his first term as CM, he said he wanted to go back to acting,“ said Kannan.
 
 Panruti said in 1976 MGR initiated the merger but on the condition that Karunanidhi, then the chief minister, should resign as the party president. But Karunanidhi did not do so. “I was always suspicious of Karunanidhi's agenda,“ he said.
 
 According to Kannan, soon after winning the 1977 election, MGR asked his confidante Solai to initiate merger talks. Solai suggested that K Veeramani, as the leader of the parent organisation DK, would be the ideal go-between.
 
 For Veeramani, the coming together of the two meant a powerful Dravidian party ruling the state. “MGR invited me over for breakfast at his house and asked me to speak to Karunanidhi. I went to Kalaignar and spoke to him. But Kalaignar was suspicious of the move as he said that it had happened a few times before and it did not work out. Then they came to a decision. MGR suggested that the parties organise meetings for two months in which both leaders will participate. Then the cadres would come together, he said. But this information got leaked,“ recalled Veeramani.
 
 At that time, Biju Patnaik wanted to form a front, in which the two Dravidian parties would be a part, and take on a resurgent Indira Gandhi.“The Janata leaders wondered why should Dravidian parties stay divided and why not become one,“ Panruti said. At the MGR-Karunanidhi meeting in 1979, the ground rules for merger were worked out. The united party was to be called DMK. MGR would continue as CM and Karunanidhi would be party presi dent. The economic criterion for reservation that MGR had introduced was to be scrapped.
 
 Panruti Ramachandran, however, was steadfast during the lunch at his T Nagar residence. “Party is permanent, while governments come and go. What is the future for the rank and file who pledged their destiny to yours? I told MGR the merger is not at all practicable,“ Panruti said.When the news trickled in that the head of the MGR Fans Association Musiri Puthan had been beaten up by DMK cadres, MGR was convinced.
 
 Veeramani, meanwhile, suspected the role of central intelligence agencies who, he believed, wanted to keep the two parties divided.
 
