Bhopal: Much ahead of assembly elections slated for November 2018, the Govindpura constituency hit headlines with BJP veteran and MLA   claiming he would contest the election 11th time from the constituency.

 The former chief minister, who had been on a winning spree from Govindpura assembly constituency in last 43 years, appears in no mood to quit active politics and his seat despite being no longer a minister in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet for crossing the 75-age bar. 
 
 “There are many leaders within the party eyeing the prestigious seat. But, Gaur, who had been demanding ticket for his daughter in-law and former mayor Krishna Gaur has made intention clear for the seat after the state leadership cold-shouldered the demand,” sources said.
 
 “I have nourished and nurtured the Govindpura assembly area and would continue to serve the constituency. Now, it is like a cake which everyone wants to eat. I have decided to contest from the seat in 2018 and hope the party would accept my request,” Gaur said on Wednesday.
 
 On the age bar issue, Gaur argues, “ Kalraj Mishra is one of the veterans. He is still a minister and there are some more ministers, MLAs and MPs serving after completing 75 years of age. There is no hard and fast rule, which can fundamentally deprive a leader to contest election after 75 years. The party decides on the basis of situation and condition during the election,” Gaur said.
 
 While Gaur gave enough signals he would not like to budge from his decision, there are a few leaders within BJP who are eyeing the Govindpura seat. Sources in the party said mayor Alok Sharma could be one of the probable candidates from the seat. The party could also add names like minister of state for cooperatives Vishwas Sarang and tourism corporation chairman Tapan Bhaumik in the list, if they approve the same.
 
 Govind Goyal, who unsuccessfully contested against the former CM in 2013 is trying to consolidate his position hoping the fight would not be as tough in the absence of polictical heavyweight like Gaur. Goyal, who launched a de-addiction and prohibition drive in several localities of Govindpura claims infighting in the BJP would help him wrest this seat in 2018.
 
 “It’s almost clear Babulal Gaur will not get another chance to contest election from Govindlpura. What we are doing to help women and children fight alcohol abuse would surely pay during elections,” he claimed.
 
 Goyal said it was clear Alok Sharma as the mayor, announced several schemes in Govindpura constituency area and may stake a claim for the seat, and Gaur is aware of the same. Sharma, however, clarified he could announce welfare schemes for Bhopal as the mayor of the city and he has no intention to contest election from the seat.
 
 
