PUNE: On the voting day (February 21), you can strut about town showing the indelible ink mark on your index finger. For, it can fetch you a scratch card, a 15-20 per cent discount on a movie tickets at multiplexes or, if you are lucky, a free desert at any of the 1,000 restaurants in the city. These and many other incentives are being dangled by the district collectorate and municipal corporations to draw voters to the polling booths. With the SEC declaring voting day as a holiday, the administration wants to ensure that maximum people go out and vote. 

 Zilla Parishads, panchayat samities as well as the two municipal corporations in Pune are pulling out all the stops to ensure that people do not skip voting on the D-Day. Both the   and corporation elections for Pune district are on the same day.
 
 The first 100 voters in any of the polling booths in the city, rural areas and PCMC will stand to gain scratch cards. District collector Saurabh Rao told TOI that the initiative is to encourage maximum voters in the first hour itself and sponsors have been tapped for this purpose. "We will be working out as to how to implement the same in all the areas,'' he said.   commissioner Kunal Kumar added they would work out the modalities and decide on how it should be given to the voters. 
 
 With hotel associations in   already announcing discounts for the polling day, Pune city restaurants too have joined in and have announced "free dessert" at all the 1000 hotels in the city.
 
 President of   Ganesh Shetty said that they wanted to participate in the process to improve the voting percentage in the corporation polls.
 
  "We have decided to appreciate those who have voted for the elections with a 'dessert' at any of the restaurants that are part of our association. If the adults are accompanied by children, they too will get a complimentary dessert from the restaurant on that day," said Shetty.
 
 The administration has had talks with the multiplex association members and it has been decided that multiplexes and single screen theatres will offer 15-20 per cent discount on tickets for all their shows on voting day.
 
 Collector Rao who has had talks with the association members said that the talks were very positive and it was decided that all the voters could avail the discount on the voting day after showing the ink mark on their fingers.
 
 Prakash Chaphalkar, partner of City Pride, said that he has passed on the information to all the theatre owners and it has been mutually agreed upon to work out the discount on the tickets. "Discount will be given for all shows and the amount will be a round figure and the final figure will be worked out for all the theatres. The voter has to show the indelible ink mark and avail of this facility," said Chaphalkar.
 
 PMC Commissioner Kunal Kumar said that besides all these sops, they are also in talks with PMPML to offer some discount on tickets for those who have exercised their franchise.
 
 The Election Commission had asked each district to work out various methods and means to ensure maximum voting percentage for the polls. A meeting on the same will be addressed through video conferencing by the SEC with all district collectors and commissioners to assess the preparation for the two-phase elections.
 
