KOLKATA: Close on the heels of the  , the   now wants to bring private   under leash. But unlike in healthcare, the government isn’t proposing steps. It instead wants private school authorities to come up with proposals that place merit over money.

 “The government wants private school authorities to suggest some draft guidelines that will be binding on these schools. Most important is to set a cap on the ever increasing fee structure charged by private schools over which the government doesn’t have any control,” a Nabanna official said. The state now wants the school authorities to comply with the guidelines before giving them land or a “no-objection” certificate. 
 
 Under the present arrangement, private schools operating within the state have to obtain NoCs before setting up the school and run Class I to VIII. Similarly, they have to seek board affiliation for getting Class-VII students registered. In doing so a second NoC is mandatory which is submitted to the board. The NoCs are issued by the state government.
 
 Efforts to do away with donations during admission in private schools became imminent hours after the CM on Friday wanted a policy framework to check the ever-increasing fee structures and donations in private educational institutions. When asked about the plan, education minister Partha Chatterjee said on Saturday that the government’s aim is loud and clear. “We don’t want money to get primacy over merit,” the minister said while unveiling the bust statute of the legendary headmaster of Hindu School, Kanailal Mukhopadhyay. “We know what is to be done and exactly how it can be done. There are many schools which stress on unnecessary facilities that are expensive,” Chatterjee said.
 
 However, framing regulations under the RTE Act 2009 won’t be easy for minority run premier private schools that don’t take any kind of monetary support from government. “We welcome the government’s intent. Let the government and private schools jointly work out a set of guidelines so that Bengal becomes an education destination,” said Ranjan Mitter, Future Foundation School principal.
 
 
