NEW DELHI: A significant sub-plot in Uttar Pradesh CM  's defiance of   founder and his father   Singh Yadav appears to be a bid to stall the political debut of  , the younger “bahu“ of the Yadav family.

 Aparna Yadav is a declared SP candidate from Lucknow Cantt seat for the assembly elections, and the political feud in the Yadav clan is at least partly traced to the ambitions of the younger daughter-in-law who is married to Prateek Yadav, son of Mulayam's second wife Sadhna Gupta. SP had last year announced Aparna's candidature and she has been active as a social activist and this, with the implied higher profile, has not gone well with the CM. The   camp feels the injection of another “family“ factor in the SP equation is an unnecessary distraction from the CM's position as Mulayam's political successor.
 
 Sources say Akhilesh has strong reservations about sharing political space with Sadhna Gupta's family as he had put his foot down on Prateek's political debut in 2014. Akhilesh camp sources say that apart from reservations on Aparna, the CM has put forth strong terms for calling a truce in his showdown with Mulayam and the patriarch may find them hard to accept. The “externment“ of Mulayam's younger brother Shivpal Yadav from UP affairs seems a hard call after the SP chief knocked on the door of the Election Commission disputing Akhilesh's elevation as party's national president.
 
 To counter Mulayam's claim, another uncle of Ahkilesh, Rajya Sabha MP Ram Gopal Yadav, reached the EC office with documents to counter the SP chief 's claims. He presented tapes of the “national executive“ to claim that the party symbol “cycle“ belonged to Akhilesh. By demanding that Shivpal be excluded from UP affairs, Akhilesh is looking to establish full control of the party, including distribution of assembly poll tickets.
 
 Sources also said expulsion of Amar Singh from the party is non-negotiable as his return to the party will not be acceptable at all. While Akhilesh was reportedly busy negotiating a “compromise“ formula with Mulayam in Lucknow on Tuesday, Ram Gopal showed no signs of relenting as he said the party will contest the assembly polls under Akhilesh Yadav as president.
 
 Meanwhile, EC sources said MSY had submitted written application to the poll panel and on Tuesday, it received three sets of applications along with documents from Ram Gopal Yadav. EC will examine these as per relevant provisions of Election Symbols Order, 1968.
 
 
 
 
 
 
