Located in Bandra, Drop promises to be an ideal spot to unwind. A partnership between Indorama (by Prashant Gunjalkar) and   (by Mihir Desai and Amit Singh), the stylish neighbourhood hangout offers the perks of a   without burning a hole in your pocket.

 
 
 Winding stairs lead you to the dimly-lit restobar, setting the mood for a fun and relaxing night out. Its interiors, which are inspired by a warehouse, feature huge metal doors, cut-outs of PVC pipes on the ceiling and rustic chain curtains. Muted hues with splashes of upbeat colours like orange and electric blue brighten up the space. Spread over an area of 10,000 sqft, Drop has a spacious dance floor. The flooring is a mix of hardwood carpeting and colourful, graphic tiling. While the round booth seating and comfy sofas ensure privacy, abstract and not-so-abstract minimalistic metal and mirror work vie for your attention. 
 
 
 
 Drop’s emphasis is on fresh and homemade ingredients, which appeal to the health-conscious lot. Right from sauces to sundried tomatoes and smoked chicken, they are all in-house efforts. The salted cookies with spiced scrambled eggs and cheese melt deserve a special mention, owing to the recipe’s novelty. The truffle oil & parmigiano flatbread topped with shitake mushrooms, rock salt and grana padano makes for a great accompaniment with drinks. The smoked chicken fillet & pickled cherry tomato salad ditches the usual toppings like iceberg lettuce and arugula to make way for fresh coriander, mint, basil and sesame oil. Zucchini spaghetti, pan-tossed beetroot gnocchi served with rocket salad and saffron, champagne & chicken risotto are just right to keep you healthy and happy. The value-for-money spirit section is a major highlight, with the menu offering some classic cocktails with a spin. Grapefruit julep is a whisky-based cocktail with muddled grapefruit, mint and crushed ice. Love margaritas? The refreshing strawberry variety tossed with jalapeños is an interesting twist. 
 
 
  Drop, No G1/B, Krystal Building, Waterfield Road, Bandra (W)
 
 022-4229 6000
 
  From 12 pm to 4 pm (Wed,Fri & Sat) and from 7 pm to 1.30 am (All Week)
 
  ` 700/- ++
 
 
