KOZHIKODE: The additional district magistrate, who is presently holding the charges of the district collector, has directed the   ( ) to restore the   stretch of   river.

 The official issued the directive following a complaint filed by the Western Ghats river protection committee. 
 
 The committeewas formed after a protest staged by local people and environmentalist on Thursday. 
 
 The panel had pointed out that Cial was unlawfully dumping soil and rock mined from the river for the construction of a mini-hydroelectric project in the river affecting its flow.
 
 It is alleged that the rock and soil dumped in the river will accumulate in the deep stretches of the river and will cause flood during monsoon.
 
 “As per the directive given to Cial, they should remove soil and rock pieces from the river in six days,” said  , an executive committee member of the committee. 
 
 According to residents, 42 houses were partially damaged owing to explosions conducted at   by Cial. 
 
 As per the information availed through Right to Information Act, the Cial authorities have not availed permission for carrying out mining and explosion in the region, they alleged.
 
 The residents have been protesting against the hydroelectric project as it would affect the natural flow of the river and reduce the water level. They are also planning to obstruct the work of two upcoming mini-hydroelectric projects.
 
 Currently, the work of four hydroelectric projects is being progressing along the Iruvanhi river and the process for starting two more mini-hydroelectric projects is on. 
 
 As the work of the project by Cial is progressing with pace, the river protection activists are now fighting for the restoration of the remaining portions of the river.
 
 Poonoor, Iruvanhi, Iruthulli, Cherupuzha, Chaliyar and   rivers are the major sources of water for residents of Kozhikode and they play an important role in maintaining the ecological balance, said P H  , president of the committee. 
 
 “We have decided to bat for the protection of the rivers starting from the Western Ghats,” he said. 
 
