Chennai: The first day after the announcement on the proposed merger of   and   saw the stock price of   ( ) plummet 5.6%.

 Although the final swap ratio and valuation details will determine the winners and losers in this merger deal, analysts are already viewing the transaction as a win for   Bank and a negative for the Shriram group companies. Shriram Transport Finance Company’s (STFC’s) shares were down 3.3% and IDFC saw its shares drop 5.7%, even as shares of IDFC Bank rose nearly 1%.
 
 Under the plan announced on Saturday, all finance entities under the Shriram group will move under IDFC. While SCUF will be merged with IDFC Bank, STFC will remain as a separate entity. The new entity will have IDFC Limited as the holding company for the insurance subsidiary, asset management arm, STFC and the merged IDFC Bank-SCUF.
 
 Analyst Kunal Shah of Edelweiss brokerage said, “We believe IDFC Bank would be relatively better placed while Shriram group would be in a compromising situation. However, a lot would depend on swap ratios finally agreed upon between both the groups.”
 
 Among the many difficulties analysts envision for the merger is that under the current structure for a non-operative financial holding company (NOHFC), an entity cannot hold two separate lending entities. “So we need to wait and see if RBI will give permission regarding the same,” said the brokerage.
 
 Brokerage Motilal Oswal also held to the view that the deal will primarily be beneficial to IDFC. “IDFC Ltd would get a strong operating company post-merger. Addition of a strong operating cash flow-generating entity as a 100% subsidiary will be a key benefit for IDFC Ltd and might reduce the holding company discount. Since IDFC Bank will be a major beneficiary of the merger, we expect favourable swap ratio for SCUF shareholders,” said Alpesh Mehta, analyst, Motilal Oswal.
 
 The post-merger structure might be more like HDFC Ltd. “With the key differences being that the housing finance business at HDFC is done at parent level, rather than 100% subsidiary like commercial vehicle financing for IDFC. Running two parallel businesses of banking and lending under the same NOHFC will entail regulatory challenges,” said the brokerage.
 
 Some of the hurdles envisioned are integration-related issues — of technology and the two workforces. Other challenges include ensuring the best interest of minority shareholders of STFC, which will be de-listed. And IDFC’s stake in the company coming down to 40% — while this removes the overhang of big dilution, according to regulation IDFC will have to maintain 40% shareholding in IDFC Bank (share swap of STFC and other businesses of Shriram Capital will entail over 75% equity dilution of IDFC Ltd),” said Mehta.
 
 
