BHUBANESWAR: The stage is set for the three-day BJP conclave in the city, starting Friday. While party president   will chair a meeting of general secretaries on the first day, the national executive will meet over the next two days where the top leadership is likely to chart out the course for the 2019   election and may also prepare the blueprint for the Odisha assembly polls. 

 For 2019, the BJP is eyeing 150 Lok Sabha seats from states such as Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Tripura, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. In 2014, the party won only 10 seats from these states but this time it aspires to make the maximum gains. 
 
 "This would be a key area of deliberation when the party prepares its roadmap for the next general election," a party source said. 
 
 In 2014, BJP had own only one of the 21 Lok Sabha seats in Odisha with the rest going to the BJD.
 
 Though there's unlikely to be a specific session dealing with Odisha, the party is creating a buzz across the state about the event by putting up banners and posters and mobilizing the crowd. 
 
 The state BJP has mobilized around one lakh people, at least 50 each from all the mandals (organizational units) across the state, to greet Prime Minister   when he arrives here on Saturday afternoon. The BJP has divided the state into 999 such mandals, one organizational unit for each of the the 853 zilla parishad zones and the rest for each urban area. 
 
 From decoration of the venue to preparation of the menu, the event will have a unique touch of Odisha. Four welcome arches with Odisha temple designs, ambience lighting and interiors with state handloom and handicraft will greet the BJP leadership. Besides Odia food, there will also be an exhibition of the state's handicraft and handlooms right next to the national executive venue.
 
 "Apart from the individual security, 100 platoons of police and two   of the   (CRPF) are being deployed on the prime minister's route (from the Biju Patnaik airport to the venue at Janata Maidan)," DGP K B Singh said. The   area has turned into a fortress and is already out of bounds for outsiders.
 
