LUCKNOW: Almost half of the 21.72 lakh cardiovascular deaths reported in India in 2016 could have been averted if they were given five tablets within a few minutes of the onset of symptoms like angina, perspiration, chest pain that travels towards the left shoulder and jaw and choking. Keeping the benefits of aspirin and sorbitrate in case of a cardio-vascular event, cardiac surgeon with Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences has come up with a life-saving talisman. 

 "Majority of persons die in the event of heart or brain attack only because they reach hospital after the golden hour. If aspirin and sorbitrate are given within a few minutes of the onset of symptoms, the rate with which an attack damages the heart or brain is slowed down. In this way, the golden hour gets stretched to 3-4 hours which can save life and reduce the damage," said Prof Nirmal Gupta, head of cardiovascular and thoracic surgery department who made a presentation before state government recently.
 
 To note, heart or brain attack occurs because the blood supply to the two organs gets hampered due to blockages. Aspirin prevents blood clots from forming while sorbitrate dilates the arteries which relieves the heart of the time being. 
 
 Talking about the concept behind a talisman, he said, that there is published data (CREATE study) to show that patient arrived at the hospital at a mean interval of 360 minutes (six hours) from the start of symptom leading to poor outcomes and higher death rate. Also, there is evidence to prove that one third (35%) died while the remaining could receive treatments. 
 
 “At least 50% of those who died can be saved if they were given aspirin and sorbitrate at the time if angina. I proposed talisman because every Indian wears some kind of a raksha dhaga or mala and these life saving drugs which will cost Rs 3.5 only will remain handy. Of course, there is need to create awareness about them," said Prof Gupta. 
 
 Stating that cardiovascular events account for 45% of all non communicable diseases and sudden cardiac death (Ischemic  ) is the biggest cause of premature deaths in India, Prof Gupta said that all Indians must carry this five tablets. “Indians are genetically predisposed to cardiac ailments which is another reason to stay alert and armed with prevention. Public interest is not the only reason for government to think about prevention. Country’s economy is affected because of NCDs and CVDs because it involves productive workforce in India (people in the 35-55 years age group),” stated Gupta. 
 
 Aspirin and sorbitrate is recommended as a preventive therapy by heath organisations including   and European Society of Cardiology. It also finds a place Medical Officer's Manual on National Programme for Prevention and Control of Diabetes, Cardiovascular Disease and Stroke brought out by union ministry of health and world health organisation. The talisman also goes with 
  theme which says that small changes can bring about a big change. 
 
