NEW DELHI: Car and SUV sales started the new financial year on a healthy note, the charge being led by new models and SUVs. Companies say that demand is expected to remain healthy this year, though they await a final direction on GST and the new tax structure.

  reported its highest sales as the company’s volume in April was at 1.44 lakh units, growing by 23%. The company, which is witnessing a healthy demand for models such as Baleno hatchback and Brezza mini SUV, has recently started production from its Gujarat plant.
 
 Maruti has a slew of new models in its portfolio, and is in the process of driving in the new-generation version of the Dzire entry sedan later this month.
 
 Hyundai also recorded growth in April, although the pace was in single digit. The company’s volumes in the month were up 6% at 44,758 units against 42,351 units in the same month year.
 
 For Toyota, the growth in volumes was over 50% as the company goes strong on the back of the Innova MPV and the Fortuner SUV. The company’s numbers in the month were up 52% at 12,948 units against 8,529 units in April last year. The percentage of growth is stronger as the company had a depressed momentum at this time last year after a majority of its vehicles stayed out of the crucial Delhi-NCR market on the back of the ban on larger diesel engines.
 
 Homegrown   also reported a double-digit growth in volumes. The company, which recently launched a new entry sedan Tigor, sold 12,827 units in April at a growth of 23%. The company’s portfolio also has new cars in the Tiago hatchback and the Hexa SUV.
 
 Japanese maker Honda, which had been facing tough times through most of last year, saw a 38% growth in volumes in April. The company, which recently launched the WR-V crossover, sold 14,480 units in the month against 10,486 u units in the same month last year.
 
 SUVs and crossovers have been a major reason behind the growth in the Indian passenger vehicles industry. Models fueling the volumes for the industry include Maruti’s Brezza, Hyundai’s Creta and Toyota’s Innova.
 
 SUVs contribute nearly 25% to the sales of the domestic passenger vehicles industry and this is expected to touch nearly 30% this year.
 
