Ten days after the Chennai city traffic police ordered omnibus opera tors not to use the Alandur metro station and Alandur post office as pick-up points for passengers, errant drivers continue to halt buses near the Kathipara flyover on the  , causing severe  .

 Motorists say they are the worst hit when they head towards the airport and beyond during peak hours. Drivers of MTC buses say they are unable to pick up and drop passengers as omnibuses block roads. In a rush to fill the seats, omnibus drivers never halt at the bays but stop randomly on the main carriageway for passengers.
 
 While passengers boarding long-distance government buses go to Koyambedu and   to board, private buses enter the city and stop at busy junctions so their passengers have it easy . The traffic police passed the order on July 13 after complaints of major traffic hold-ups at peak hours caused by these buses.
 
 A meeting was convened by senior traffic police officers on Thursday to ease traffic congestion on GST Road. After discussions, members of Omnibus Owners' Association in Chennai were told about the traffic mess omnibuses were causing at the Alandur metro station and head post office. They were directed to take their buses to   opposite Officers' Training Academy (see map) and pick up passengers from there before taking a right turn to   to head to GST Road. But the proposal has received a poor response.
 
 “The traffic police who have come up with instructions should ensure that these buses follow the rules. But policemen do not question the drivers.They halt on the GST Road even in the presence of patrol vehicles stationed near the Alandur station,“ said Ganesh, a commuter from Meenambakkam.
 
 MTC bus driver Arumu gasamy from the Alandur bus depot said omnibus drivers seldom give way to government buses. “They never consider the plight of the everyday commuter. If we honk hard, they shout at us,“ he said.
 
 An omnibus driver said even if the police pulled them up, they will be fined `1,000 fine which would be the cost of single bus ticket on weekends.
 
 Additional commissioner of police, traffic, K Periaiah told TOI that omnibus operators have sought 15 days to adapt to the new changes. “We will ensure that these buses do not stop at these points from Tuesday ,“ he said.
 
