KOLKATA: Chief minister   on Friday reiterated her concerns over the security of data in online financial transactions and urged founders and chief executives of startup ventures that have made it big in India to help fix the issue.

 “Startups must be cautious while handling common people’s personal data. It should not go in the hands of investors or fund managers belonging to foreign shores. I have been vocal about this issue during the demonetisation stir. You should find out some solution to fix this problem. People’s privacy must be maintained. All card and e-wallet transactions should be fully protected,” she told session panelists that included Portea Medical co-founder Meena Ganesh, Naukri.com founder Sanjiv Bhikchandani, Saurabh Kochhar of Foodpanda and Bigbasket co-founder Hari Menon.
 
 Mamata had taken a lead in opposing PM  's demonetisation move and raised security concerns over possible financial data leak by e-wallet major Paytm to its major shareholder Alibaba.com of China.
 
 T V Mohandas Pai, chairman of Manipal Global Education and head of Bengal startup steering panel, was quick to assuage the concerns. “We need a privacy law and privacy policy in India. If the law is there, it will protect us as consumers and startups, too, will be compelled to abide by it. If the policy says India’s data should reside in India and not on a server in the US or elsewhere, startups will have to follow that,” said the former member of the board of directors at Infosys. 
 
 In Bengal, there are 520 startups, of which 70 came up last year and raised $10 million. “They were into areas like IT, artificial intelligence, big data, life sciences and analytics. What is needed in the state is a culture of entrepreneurship. It needs a hero, a big success story that will inspire many others,” he said. Bengal supplies 30% of total big data workforce to   at present.
 
 Pai has also spoken to Kolkata-based industrialists, including Sanjiv Goenka, to set up an accelerator.
 
 Speaking at the session, state finance minister Amit Mitra said startup was the buzzword to inspire and engage new business ideas. “Every innovation is disruptive. But the question is how you can benefit 92% villagers in this startup ecosystem,” said Mitra, echoing the CM’s call for startups that cater to a majority of people, including the poor.
 
 Ganesh of Portea Medical said there was abundant opportunity for startups to flourish in the state but what could make the real difference was the quality of service they offered. Naukri.com’s Bhikchandani felt people’s aspiration was a key driving force in the success of a startup, a view that was seconded by Kochhar of Foodpanda. “The new mindset of the middle class is a big game changer,” he said. That is what Menon of Bigbasket is experiencing in Kolkata, which has emerged as one of the biggest markets in just a year.
 
 
