GURUGRAM: The   and Country Planning (DTCP) has sent notices to several property owners in   after violations of floor area ratio (FAR) norms were spotted in plots allocated to property owners belonging to the economically weaker section (EWS).

 In the letter issued a couple of weeks ago had asked the property owners to send their replies to the department over the violations. The move came after the resident welfare association (RWA) in the area filed a complaint with the town planner, seeking crackdown on violators of FAR norms.
 
 The order states that the property owners have raised unauthorised structures over and above the permissible limit, and the same is in violation of the provisions of approved building plans.
 
 “We have issued notices, asking the owners to submit their replies to us over the illegal construction. We have received their replies seeking an extension. They said they wanted to appeal to the state government seeking changes in FAR norms,” said RT  , district town planner (enforcement wing), DTCP.
 
 He also said the department had decided to give them an extension, but relief for the property owners is unlikely. The residents in the area have long been complaining about the illegal construction in EWS plots and how that is causing unprecedented strain on resources such as water, power and roads.
 
 “In a building, which is meant for 10 people, around 30 people are living as paying guests. And the infrastructure is not sufficient to meet the requirements of so many people living in the area. This makes things worse even for law-abiding citizens,” said a resident on condition of anonymity.
 
 Unauthorised construction is quite prevalent in EWS plots of privately developed colonies such as DLF- 3, South City -1, Sushant Lok-1 and Suncity. The problem is severe in DLF-3 where multi-storey buildings for paying guest accommodation have come up in EWS plots, causing trouble for infrastructure available in the area. 
 
 The matter had come into spotlight when a boy living as a paying guest in DLF-3 was allegedly thrown off the fifth floor of a building by its owner after a spat between the two over long outages and water shortage.
 
