MUMBAI: India's anxious wait to learn their Under-17 World Cup group stage fate ended on Friday as the official draw saw  's side joined by the USA, Colombia and two-time champions Ghana in Group A.

 Silence gave way to a few cheers among a packed hall at a suburban luxury hotel here when former Argentina star   picked out the USA from pot two. As per the draw's sequence, it, of course, meant the Americans - no strangers to this competition by any means having competed in 15 of the previous 16 editions - would become India's first known group opponents.
 
 Then, as India's senior national team skipper,  , went about his role as draw assistant by picking the number A2, India, already assured of the A1 placing by virtue of being the host nation, had just discovered something more. They now knew they would be kicking off their campaign against the USA on the tournament's opening day (October 6) in New Delhi.
 
  
 
 Nwankwo Kanu, a man who, like many others, took his first steps to football stardom by going all the way with Nigeria in the 1993 edition of this tournament, confirmed the identity of India's other two rivals in the group stage as he picked out Colombia and Ghana from pots three and four respectively.
 
 This being a 24-team event, there is some welcome leeway for teams to sneak into the last 16 stage as four of the best third-placed teams join the six group winners and runners-up in the knockout phase.
 
 But that shouldn't see less gripping action in the group stages, definitely not in Group D at least where three-time champions Brazil were pitted with traditional powerhouse Spain, Korea DPR and debutants Niger.
 
  
  
 Talking to reporters later, de Matos acknowledged India were certainly some way behind their group rivals but said his side would be ready to do the nation proud, this after all set to be India's first appearance at any Fifa event.
 
 "Most of the other teams all have something valuable which we will lack and that's experience," the Portuguese pointed out. "The US for example have only missed one Under-17 World Cup till now. So in this category, they work very well. Ghana, along with Mali are probably the two best African teams at this moment. As for Colombia, I have watched a lot of matches in South America and Colombia are usually among the top four sides there.
 
  
  
 "So all three are very strong and offer different types of football. But we are not afraid. We will fight in every game and even if someone is giving us a 20 per cent chance to win each match, we are going to fight as hard as we can for that 20 per cent," the tactician added.
 
  
  
 On the possibility of stretching their historic campaign, de Matos sounded hopeful. "When the third placed team can go ahead in this kind of tournament, three points may be enough. All these three teams are much stronger. But we want to have the possibility in the first game with all the enthusiasm to get a surprise result and get the three points. We are going to fight for that," he reiterated.
 
  
  
 
