KOLKATA: Fifty men in   and many in   on Wednesday put up a   in front of the   on  , off CR Avenue, throwing up a contrast with the feeble security cover during the Tuesday’s violence. 

 What was a major embarrassment for the city cops was the deployment of central forces, at a place hardly a kilometre from the   headquarters. The state government hasn’t taken the matter lightly, as law and order is a state subject. The government will write to the Centre and Trinamool MLAs have taken up the matter with Bengal governor Keshari Nath Tripathi when they went to Raj Bhavan on Wednesday.
 
 BJP leaders maintain that the case not that simple. “The police remained inert for quite some time and allowed the Trinamool supporters to lead the siege on our party office, like they did in Hooghly and Durgapur on Wednesday,” said state BJP president Dilip Ghosh. “On Tuesday, they looked the other way when Trinamool were pelting stones at our party office, leaving many of us injured. They sprung to action only after CRPF men entered the scene. The state government is obliged to protect us. We couldn’t take the injured to hospital. Our party national secretary Rahul Sinha, who enjoys Y category security, then called the governor. The governor got in touch with the Union home ministry, and the arrangement was made. The central forces left the place in a short while.” 
 
 Ghosh also pointed out that Mamata Banerjee had kept six RPF men for her personal security. “When the CM can’t rely on state forces and has sought the extension of their service for another two years, how can she call this an intervention in state affairs?” Ghosh said.
 
 State officials dispute the argument. “A VIP enjoying Y category security is entitled to have three security personnel, when there were 16 CRPF jawans at the BJP office on Tuesday. If they had come on law-and-order duty, they should have had a command certificate with them. If they had come for the personal protection of a VIP, they ought to have a personal protection certificate. We would like to know what they had with them on Tuesday,” said a senior state official.
 
 Lalbazar is trying to substantiate that it was the cops, and not central forces, that tackled the situation on Tuesday. “We didn’t seek   assistance. They had come to give protection to a VIP and didn’t handle law and order,” said a senior police officer. 
 
 BJP leaders also pointed to the “partisan role” of the police in dealing with the violence probe. “The police are sitting on our complaint and are yet to lodge an FIR. Instead, Jorasanko Police has lodged a suo motu FIR that doesn’t mention those who attacked our party office. It doesn’t even mention that some policemen were injured and their vehicles vandalised,” said a BJP leader. Kolkata Police refused to buy the argument. “We are going through CCTV footage. We will take steps accordingly and take action against negligence, if any,” said an officer. 
 
 Trinamool leaders harped on the “intervention of central forces”. “We took it up with the governor because it is an attack on the federal structure of the Constitution,” said minister Partha Chatterjee after coming out of Raj Bhavan. 
 
 
