SURAT: Chief minister   announced an ex-gratia of Rs 10 lakh each to the family members of the Amartnath terror attack deceased and Rs 2 lakh each to the injured victims on Tuesday. 

 Rupani along with deputy CM Nitin Patel arrived at the airport on Tuesday morning to receive the Indian Air Force (IAF) plane carrying 53 passengers, including seven bodies of the pilgrims and 19 injured in the terror attack. 
 
 CM made a special mention of the driver of Om travels of Valsad, Sailm Shaikh, whose bravery saved at least 50 lives in the terrorist attack on Monday night. 
 
 Talking to media persons, Rupani said, “Driver Salim has showed exceptional valour by driving the bus for almost two kilometres when the terrorists were firing from all sides. Had he not driven the bus, there could have been large number of casualties. My government salutes his courage and I will recommend his name for a bravery award.” 
 
 Rupani further stated, “It was a dastardly act of targeting unarmed yatris. I have no words to condemn such an act of cowardness. The central government under PM (Narendra) Modi would give a befitting reply to the terrorists.”
 
 He also praised the rescue work undertaken by the police and army personnel in Kashmir. “I was told by the pilgrims how the police, military personnel and the local people of Kashmir helped the injured reach hospital. The government of Jammu and Kashmir has also helped the terror attack victims from Gujarat.”
 
 Meanwhile, all the 19 injured were taken to New Civil Hospital (NCH) for treatment. They had suffered bullet injuries on different parts of their bodies. The victims would be treated free-of-cost at the NCH. 
 
 A few of the local Congress leaders were not allowed to enter the airport premises. Congress councillor Dinesh Kachadiya had a verbal spat with policemen at the airport gate after he was denied entry into the airport premise to meet the Amarnath pilgrims. 
 
 Over two dozen ambulances were lined up at the airstrip to ferry the injured pilgrims immediately to the NCH for treatment. Seven bodies of the Amarnath pilgrims were sent separately to their native villages in Valsad, Udvada, Gandevi, Kunta and Dahanu in Maharashtra. 
 
 CM Rupani personally waited at the airport till all the injured and the bodies were sent to their destinations. Ambulance to Dahanu in Maharashtra with two bodies were sent last. 
 
 People standing outside the airport shouted slogans against Pakistan and demanded that the central government should give a befitting reply to such a cowardly act of terrorism. 
 
 Naresh Lalwani, a textile businessman who was standing outside the airport to meet the Amarnath pilgrims, said, “It’s time for a bigger surgical strike against Pakistan. The govenrment must act immediately to eliminate the terror outfits active in Kashmir and PoK.”
 
