HYDERABAD: Penchant for publicity of some elected representatives coupled with official apathy is resulting in scores of cheques issued to people under Chief Minister Relief Fund ( ) being either dishonoured or remaining 'uncleared'. And beneficiaries are forced to come back to the Secretariat to collect fresh cheques.

 Some beneficiaries say the government takes between two and three months to process applications, including verification of submitted details and issuing of a cheque. In instances where a cheque has to be reissued, it takes another month or two.
 
 For instance,   (name changed), applied for CMRF in September last year, seeking financial aid for sur gery and received approval from CMRF this January. He was given a cheque by his MLA in the first week of February which he presented to his bank. But the cheque is yet to be cleared, he said.
 
 While bank officials claim the state government tends to keep cheques on hold due to budgetary problems, revenue department officials, however, claim funds are not an issue and the problem lies with banks. Bankers send CMRF cheques to head offices instead of sending to personal deposit (PD) account at SBH government treasury branch at Gunfoundry, they say.
 
 The state government extends aid to the poor with health problems, death of kin, loss of property or livelihood due to unforeseen circumstances or incidents like natural calamities, road, and fire accidents. People can seek relief from CMRF either directly or through elected representatives, including MLAs, MLCs or MPs. After verification, government issues a cheque in the name of the beneficiary.
 
 The biggest hurdle in smooth processing of CMRF cheques and turning into cash in beneficiary accounts came with some changes in the system. Until two years ago, the government would directly send cheques to beneficiaries and applicants through post.On insistence of ministers and MLAs after   was formed, the cheques are now collected by elected representatives for distribution to beneficiaries.
 
 “Ministers and MLAs take away the cheques and wait for a decent collection before holding a special programme to draw publicity to hand over cheques to beneficiaries. By the time these are deposited in banks, cheques either expire or are put on hold,“ said a senior official of the revenue department.
 
 Speaking to TOI, special chief secretary (revenue)  , said he is not aware of any such problems and will inquire into possible causes of delays or dishonouring of CMRF cheques. There's no budgetary problem for CMRF cheques, the official said.
 
