VELLORE: A quarrel over a   between a   and a 32-year-old man in Jolarpet took an ugly turn and resulted in the murder of a 34-year-old man.

  The deceased has been identified as Muniraj, a native of   in Jolarpet. Muniraj was working as a reporter for a regional newspaper and a news channel.
 
 Muniraj and his younger brother Karthik, 30, were attacked by a group of about 15 men. While Muniraj succumbed to his injuries, his brother was battling for life in a hospital. The incident took place near their house around 8pm on Monday.
 
 According to police, the perpetrators and the victims were all from   and neighbours. It all started after Siva, 32, of Jai Beam Nagar, eloped with a minor girl, who was a Class XI student, a week ago. After tracing Siva and the girl from their hideout in Hogenakkal three days ago, their respective families brought them back to their native places.
 
 After that, the families and relatives of both Siva and the girl were quarrelling over the issue.
 
 The girl’s family abused Siva and his family members.
 
 On Monday afternoon, the elders from the community gathered in a stadium in the area to settle the issue among themselves. However, the peace talk took an ugly turn when Muniraj, who came in support of his friend Siva, assaulted the girl’s father Tirupathi and a few others.
 
 Tirupathi was taken to Government Hospital in Tirupattur. Later, he was referred to Government Medical College Hospital in Dharmapuri for further treatment.
 
 In retaliation, Tirupathi’s relatives assaulted Muniraj’s brother Karthik on Monday evening.
 
 “Around 8 pm, Tirupathi’s relatives contacted Muniraj over the phone and told him that they want to settle the issue amicably to avoid further problems among them,” said a friend of Muniraj.
 
 Believing them, Muniraj with his brother walked out of their house to meet the relatives of Tirupathi. The two were surrounded by a group of around 15 persons who were armed with deadly weapons. The group attacked them. The attackers fled the spot on seeing the neighbours and friends of the victims.
 
 They shifted them to Government Hospital in Tirupattur where doctors declared that Muniraj had been brought dead. They referred his brother to Government Medical College Hospital in Dharmapuri.
 
 The Jolarpet police registered a case and detained five men for questioning. 
 
