Mumbai: Shiv Sena candidate Surendra Bagalkar, who lost the election from ward 220, filed a petition in the small causes court seeking to declare BJP’s Atul Shah’s “selection” invalid and requesting that five “tender votes” be counted to decide the result. 

 “The court has directed all the parties including the state election commission to file their reply on March 20,” said Balkrishna Joshi, the lawyer appearing for Bagalkar in the case. 
 
 Under election laws, a person who comes to the polling centre and finds someone else has voted in his name on the EVM can cast a paper ballot. These ballots are known as tender votes, and are to be sealed and kept aside. Ward 220 had five such votes in a sealed packet, still uncounted. 
 
 Shah and Bagalkar polled 5,946 votes in ward 220 after a recount. The deadlock saw civic chief Ajoy Mehta rushing to the counting centre. Under the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act (MMCA), a lottery is to be drawn to pick the winner. 
 
 Shah’s and Bagalkar’s names were written on two pieces of paper and placed in a box. Later, Yashika Salunke (4) drew the chit with Shah’s name. In his petition, Bagalkar said that the municipal commissioner did not inform the candidates and their agents if the person whose chit was drawn from the box would be the winning candidate or the loser. 
 
 Referring to the tender votes he said that the Representation of the People’s Act and the MMCA is silent on the use of tender votes and how they could affect the election results.
 
 The petition claimed that the apex court has observed and held that tendered votes are to be taken into account only when their counting is going to affect the result of the election. “Such votes are not to be mixed with total votes polled and are kept separately and only counted in case if the margin of defeat is less than the total tender votes polled. In the present case, the margin of defeat is less than the total tender votes polled,” the petition reads. Bagalkar urged the court to separate the bogus votes cast.
 
 
