NEW DELHI: A corporation school teacher was   from his south Delhi house on charges of extortion and theft. 

 The man, Bhattu Bheem Rao Patil, would target people travelling by   and   express trains. He would scan through passenger charts and identify potential targets. Then he would board a first-class AC coach from a station a little ahead of Delhi. Once in, he would steal cellphones and laptops and get down when the train slowed down while chugging into New Delhi station. 
 
 Sometimes, a laptop bag would contain the victim’s business card. He would call up the person and ask for money to return the items, threatening to reveal sensitive data or destroy the gadget if his demand isn’t met. If his threat didn’t work, he would sell off the gadget to a dealer in Nehru Place.
 
 Police said an IIM student recently lodged a complaint with them. The woman’s laptop went missing around Meerut. But a few days later, Patil called up on her brother’s number and demanded Rs 30,000 to be wired to the account linked to an ATM card he found in the laptop bag. He also asked for the PIN of the card and promised to return the stolen items if he was paid the money. 
 
 The woman’s brother recorded the conversation and went to the police with it.
 
 “A police team was formed and CCTV footage of the station was checked. Raids were being conducted near Okhla, Badarpur and   when the thief struck again,” said DCP (railways) Parwaiz Ahmed. 
 
 The next victim was an Army officer who was travelling on the Dibrugarh Rajdhani Express. This officer, too, found his laptop bag missing. The bag also contained two cellphones and some cash. The officer dialled one of the cellphones. Patil answered the call and demanded Rs 30,000.
 
 The officer didn’t give him a reply immediately, but kept him engaged long enough for the police to trace his location. Patil was finally arrested from Shaheen Bagh. One Kundan Singh Bisht, who helped him dispose of stolen goods, was also arrested. 
 
 Patil later told the police that he needed money to gamble and pay off his debts.
 
