NEW DELHI: Delhi is set to have the highest minimum wages in the country as LG   has ratified the Delhi cabinet’s decision. A notification will be issued on March 6 and the revised wages will come into effect from the same date.

 Calling it a “historical” decision, CM   thanked the LG for having cleared the proposal. Former LG Najeeb Jung had initially returned the file last year, raising objection to the recommendation of a tripartite committee’s, which was set up without his approval. The government had to reconstitute the committee, which then submitted a fresh proposal. The file was sent to Baijal last week and he cleared it on Friday.
 
 “Last week, the   cleared the minimum wages and sent the file to the LG. We are grateful to him for having cleared it. Now, unskilled workers will get Rs 13,350 per month instead of Rs 9,724. Semi-skilled ones will get Rs 14,698, up from Rs 10,764 while skilled workers will see an increase in their wages from Rs 11,830 to Rs 16,182. Traders and industrialists have some concerns but we appeal to them to see the long-term advantage of this. If the poor have money, it will boost demand and goods will sell more. There may be a short-term pinch, but there will be benefits in the mid and long term,” said Kejriwal.
 
 Labour minister Gopal Rai said that the decision would impact around 50 lakh families in Delhi. “Wages should have been revised every five years, but the last revision took place 22 years ago. Now, monitoring is our biggest concern. The   passed the minimum wage amendment bill, which has proposed an increase of penalty for violation of minimum wages from a fine of Rs 500 to Rs 50,000 and imprisonment from six months to three years. We request the Centre to clear this immediately. Meanwhile, we will also carry out a sensitisation campaign for employers,” added Rai.
 
 The government has also decided to do away with inspectors for verifying whether an employer is paying minimum wages to employees. Instead, employers will have to put up information online which will then be verified through random checks, Rai said.
 
 
