BHOPAL: The dumpers caught with alleged illegally mined sand on Saturday in chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s Budhni constituency is all set to become a major political issue for the Congress party. Four out of six dumpers nabbed by a woman mining inspector caught transporting more than permitted quantity of sand allegedly belong to the chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s kin. While Chouhan finds himself in the precarious position, the Congress is planning to organise a rally on the issue in Budhni constituency.

 Speaking to TOI,   president Arun Yadav said, “Our party has been repeatedly raising this issue of   and the involvement of the chief minister’s family for several years. In the bygone 11 years, Chouhan’s relatives have been illegally mining sand from the Narmada river. The ongoing   is another illusion that is being created.
 
 Thousands of crores of rupees worth of sand has been illegally mined from Narmada. It should not shock us that when the chief minister is leading the Narmada Seva Yatra that his relative’s dumpers are nabbed from Rehti, part of his constituency.”
 
 According to Arun Yadav, the Congress party will now go to Budhni and hold a massive rally to expose the “loot” and attack the chief minister in his own ground.
 
 State Congress organisational general secretary, Chandrika Dwivedi said, “The chief minister says something and does exactly the opposite. On the day when the Narmada Seva Yatra started, he claimed that all illegal mining of sand from the banks of the Narmada will be stopped. This means that he is aware that illegal mining of sand happens in the Narmada. And now after he made his promise, the illegal mining has not stopped. Now dumpers of his relatives are being caught.”
 
 Chief spokesman of the state Congress KK Mishra said, “We cannot obviously expect the state government to take action against the chief minister’s relative in an illegal mining case. Hence, we might take this issue to the law court and ask for a judicial inquiry.”
 
