CHENNAI: Will the   partnership yield any identifiable results for the two partners? From the positioning of the CEOs on both sides it is clear what each company wants —   is looking for nextgen technology,   is looking to crack the emerging markets riddle.

 Domestically   Motors sales have not been in top gear and globally Volkswagen is in trouble in developed markets over the emissions scandal, making it much more important for the German brand to strike it rich in high-growth emerging markets, say auto industry experts.
 
  and group company   have not had a great run in India, despite their obviously well-engineered cars. The positive news is Tata Motors is good at keeping relationships alive (  and Daimler are good examples). The bad news — that alone may not make for a financially successful alliance.
 
 So, what happened between Tata Motors and Fiat a decade ago and what will change with Volkswagen this time round? Tata and Fiat old-timers say the relationship was far more beneficial for Tata than for Fiat. “The relationship between Fiat-Tata helped Tata Motors but not Fiat and for that Iblame Fiat. 
 
 It helped Tata Motors get this great contemporary 1300 cc common rail diesel engine from Fiat. But, the idea of using Tata dealers to sell Fiat cars simply did not work out. The advantage that Fiat was expecting in terms of cost saving in marketing and sales didn't happen because they left the entire retailing to Tata Motors.
 
 The concentration of Tata organisation and its dealerships was naturally focussed on Tata cars,” said auto industry expert Ramesh Adige, who had a long-stint with   as executive director in the 90s up to 2004.
 
 The give-and-take may be different this time round because both companies would be looking to use frugal engineering to cut costs. Investments spread over joint product and technology development will bring break even points down. “They would be looking to reduce cost of platforms and may even consider platform sharing,” said an industry expert.
 
 “If there’s sufficient commonality, it will help keep their operations investment light.” The 90s saw a series of such high-profile marriages and most ended in divorce including General Motors-Suzuki.
 
 Some didn't even go beyond the talking stage. “In 90s, alliances focussed on scale. Now the dynamics are different and alliances focus on specific skills.
 
 The auto industry is getting so cutting edge competitive — with unseen challenges coming from non-traditional players like Tesla — OEMs will find it difficult to go it alone.
 
 There are so many areas — like connected vehicles, safety, driverless vehicles, alternative fuel technology — where alliance will be the only way,” Said Abdul Majeed, partner, PwC. Combined benefits in terms of markets, technology and costs are enormous if partners leverage each other’s strengths.
 
