DEHRADUN: The Centre and the new BJP government in Uttarakhand appear to be at loggerheads over the latter’s demand for a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the   land  . Notwithstanding a veiled warning by minister in charge for road transport and highways   against such a probe, chief minister   has said that the government would not review its decision to demand an investigation by the central agency.
 
  The Uttarakhand government also clarified on Friday that contrary to media reports that it would seek legal opinion on the scope of such a probe, the government would take legal opinion but only on the role of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials in the alleged scam.
  
  A week after taking charge as CM, Rawat wrote to the Centre demanding a CBI probe into alleged irregularities worth Rs 240 crore in the acquisition of farmland for widenining of NH-74 in Udham Singh Nagar district between 2011-2016.
  
  “We will not review the decision to go for a CBI probe into the matter,” said Rawat after a meeting with Gadkari and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) chairman Yudhvir Singh Mallik in New Delhi on Thursday. In a letter on April 5, Gadkari had told the chief minister that a CBI probe into the alleged scam “would have an adverse impact on the morale of the (NHAI) officers” and the ministry “would have to re-examine the usefulness of taking up more projects in the state”.
  
  After his meeting with the Union minister on Thursday, Rawat said, “We have zero tolerance against corruption and all those guilty. Does not matter if one is from the NHAI or the state, the guilty will be punished.”
  
  Talking to TOI, state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik, said, “The CM has nowhere said that the government will take legal opinion on the CBI probe. NHAI has said that the authority had no role to play in the acquisition process and that the name of senior officers should be removed from the case. On this, the CM said he will take legal opinion.”
  
  Kaushik also maintained that there were no differences between the state government and the Union minister. “The question of differences between the Centre and the state government does not arise. The BJP is adamant on weeding out corruption. The NHAI has raised concerns and we will look into them,” he said.
  
  Kaushik said that Gadkari has assured CM Rawat that 22 roads in the state would be converted to national highways and that the all-weather Char Dham road would be completed on time.
  
  In March, Uttarakhand sought a CBI probe into the alleged scam on basis of a report submitted by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) headed by Kumaon Commissioner Senthil Pandiyan. The report found 18 cases in which farmland was shown as non-agricultural land to increase the land compensation amount by up to 20 times to benefit chosen beneficiaries. Most of the cases were reported from cities of Jaspur, Kashipur, Bajapur and Sitarganj. At a press conference on March 25, the CM said that the SIT probing the irregularities would hand over investigations to the CBI as many departments involved in the alleged scam do not come under the state government.
  
  The government had also suspended six officers in the case. These include the then special   officers, Dinesh Pratap Singh and Anil Kumar Shukla, and sub-divisional magistrates Surendra Singh Jangpangi, Jagdish Lal,   Phonia and N S Nagnyal.
  
  A PIL has also been filed in the Uttarakhand high court on the alleged scam by Ramnarayan, a resident of Rudrapur. On March 22, while hearing the plea, the Uttarakhand high court had sought response from the suspended officers on the alleged irregularities.
