Visakhapatnam: Despite talks to tap tourism potential in Vizag, the government has turned a blind eye to the colonial, Buddhist and Hindu heritage in the once famous Dutch town of Bheemili.

 “For the last 20 years various government have talked about tapping heritage tourism potential. But contrary to their statements, many of the heritage monuments have been knocked down, left to rot or encroached upon with active assistance of public representatives,” said Rani Sarma, heritage expert and member of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (Intach), Delhi. 
 
 Weeds have grown out of the Pavuralakonda Buddhist heritage site, which has now turned into a favourite haunt of cowherds to rear their cattle. 
 
 History buff BS Mahesh said apathy of the public representatives and callous behaviour of residents reflect on the little pride that people take on their history. “Collective social history is a much neglected part of history as people generally identify with history in a more personal, clannish and communal manner. Dynastic narrative is hence more popular and the subject of debate. But amidst this, heritage sites are lost forever,” he said. Mahesh said there was little protest from the natives of Bheemili when many of their heritage monuments especially the non-privately owned ones were left to rot. 
 
 “The intent is to promote this stretch on a purely commercial and chiefly non-heritage basis with stress on beach tourism. But Vizag-Bheemili beaches, though beautiful, are not fit for beach-goers or surfers in the summer,” said Rani Sarma. 
 
 District collector Pravin Kumar said groundwork to promote heritage tourism would soon be taken up and the district administration was keen on protecting these structures in Bheemili. “We all know and understand the true value of heritage tourism and the potential that the Vizag-Bheemili stretch and Bheemili town offers. Plans are afoot to coordinate with heritage experts to promote heritage tourism on this front,” he said, adding that the stress would be not just on Buddhist monuments but also on promoting the maritime heritage of Bheemili. 
 
 
