COIMBATORE: Amidst cheering by their friends, family members and well-wishers, three women on Sunday embarked on an inter-continental road trip by car from the city to London aimed to promote literacy. The women will traverse through 24 countries in their 70-day journey, covering 24,000km. 

 Meenakshi Arvind, 45, from Coimbatore, Priya Rajpal, 55, from Mumbai and Mookambika Rathinam, 38, from Pollachi started their journey at 11am from Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya in the city. State municipal administration minister S P Velumani flagged off the mission.
 
 The women will travel through Myanmar, China,  , Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus, Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Serbia, Croatia, Austria, Czech Republic, Switzerland, France, Belgium, Netherlands and reach London on June 5. 
 
 The journey, a brainchild of Meenakshi, was made possible following an extensive planning for more than six months. “We underwent training at a factory of Tata Motors in Pune for two days and we are prepared. We are a little nervous about Central Asia. Since support is mandatory in some countries, we have taken a guide in China, military support in Myanmar and a guide in Kyrgyzstan. But there are a lot of challenges such as non-availability of diesel in Uzbekistan. But we have enough stocks and also spares to handle any situation,” said Meenakshi.
 
 “We are spreading awareness on literacy. We also want to send across the message that India is much more than what it is perceived to be,” said Meenakshi. Several city NGOs, industries and institutions have supported the women and sponsored their trip. It will cost around Rs 15 lakh for each woman.
 
 Mookambika, who is leaving behind her eight-year-old daughter with her relatives, said she would miss her daughter the most during the journey. 
 
 “Out drive includes 33-minute travel over the English Channel, which I am already excited about. It is a wonderful feeling to be able to be part of something as big as this. We had some challenges such as convincing our families and friends. But everyone has encouraged and supported us. We have written to various governmental departments in all these countries and many are in touch with us,” she said.
 
 Priya Rajpal said, “Coimbatore has always been a city of motor sports. There is lot of passion among people. We are embarking on this for a purpose. I knew that if I don’t do it now, I will never be able to do it. I have done a lot of road trips in   and the US, but they have not exceeded a month. We are aware that this inter-country and inter-continental trip is ambitious but we are strong willed women. We have done extensive planning. There is always an element of uncertainty but we are prepared to adapt to situations and we will ensure we are safe,” she said.
 
 Several city biking groups and travel enthusiasts accompanied the women up to Erode and Puducherry. They said they would halt at Puducherry on Sunday night. “We plan to cover at least 500km every day and take rest at night,” said Mookambika. 
 
