
 
  
 :
  
  
 
  
  It has to end. There are no two ways about it. There have been cycles of boom and bust right from the era of Great Depression, so it would be meaningless to say nothing will happen in the future. What is important is that one should be able to derive the right learnings and at least take care that these mistakes are not repeated. Particularly, one area, that the banking system should be much more sensitive around is risk management.In a large part of banking industry,   was seen as a compliance function. Even as a commercial banker, I used to joke that this is one sub-committee of the board where agenda is the maximum and the time devoted is the least. So it's just about ticking the boxes. You cannot say there won't be any risk or any episodes.The important point is how you can prevent it and if they happen, how quickly you can recover.
  
  
 
  
  In all these matters hindsight is a beautiful thing, but when you live through those moments, the situation is entirely different. You cannot say that one single thing is responsible. I would say everyone has to take a part of that blame. One is the global events, the other is domestic factors related to policy and judicial issues. I won't say that all promoters are above board and not all were rogue promoters, but there were cases where they had their share of bringing in thin equity, no equity, and   plating and all those things. And then, the banking system may have been over optimistic, accepted the projections which were too optimistic. There were various parts responsible though the degree may differ in each individual case.
  
  
 
  
  As far as the regulator is concerned if this kind of situation presents itself, you have to strike a very fine balance between two dilemmas.One is what is going to happen to the banking system or a particular bank. But, also understand that we are discussing about productive enterprises which employ a large number of people, their suppliers, ancillary units... it's a very delicate and responsible decision to make, whether you should give a chance to the enterprise to survive and regain health and function or you ground it to dust. It's very easy to take an extreme view and “saaro ko katl kar do“ (kill them all), but that will not be a responsible decision. If you tell me only India has this problem and all countries are very progressive, then why is it that a number of countries were required to create a bad bank? It was required because you give a chance for things to revive.
  
  
 
  
  Bank charges, interest rates have been deregulated long back and I don't think we are looking at a scenario to regulate at the micro level.At a broad level, there are two re quirements -whatever banks charge or do, it should be transparent. Customers should be aware about it. There should not be any hidden charges. Secondly, these charges should be reasonable, they should not be usurious. We have also mandated each bank to have an internal ombudsman and like a chief vigilance officer (CVO), this person has to come from some other bank so that there is no legacy burden or conflict of interest.
  
  
 
  
  In this year's supervisory cycle we have particularly asked our team to focus on two areas in relation to customer service -one is mis-selling and the second is transparency and fairness of charges. On top of that, we have recently set up a separate enforcement department in the RBI. Once we get the findings, the enforcement department would take a separate view on the further action required and it could range from a warning to more severe board level communication, to monetary penalty to restricting some of the activities they can do.
  
  
 
  
  There are two aspects to it. One is policy rate and the other is liquidity environment. Any transmission will be completely effective if these two things are in sync. Rate reduction with tight liquidity will have a different outcome. Enhance the rate and also put lot of liquidity -it will be different. But the other part is when   was reduced. As long as there was tight liquidity the transmission -the reduction in MCLR -was very nominal. Post  , as liquidity improved, MCLR reduction was quite steep -an almost 75-basis point cut -without any rate cut. Earlier, there was policy action, but hardly any reduction.
  
  
 
  
  The data which is presented is aggregate of what the yield level is.That shows that you reduce repo rate so much, but lending rates on an average have only come down a bit. The issue is, within that lending basket, if 30% has transmitted your policy rate fully, and 70% has not transmitted or transmitted a portion, on an aggregate basis it is lesser. Statistics are misleading. Like, if your head is on a heater and legs in a freezer, on an average you are comfortable.
  
  
 
  
  See one of the things is the geographical spread. While one bank is strong in one geographical area and the other is strong somewhere else, if they come together, it gives a better geographical spread. If you look at the   range even in this universe, while some banks are strong in corporate credit, others are strong in retail and if they come together, there is a better product range (of offer). Even on human capital, you will find that some banks have more acumen on the side of corporate credit and treasury but they may not be so good in doing the operational or branch level functioning. Whereas there are other banks which have a very strong middle management, they have a very strong branch network but they don't have similar capabilities on the corporate side. The simple point is just because one bank is weak with low capital and another has ample capital you can merge them so the immediate problem disappears, to my mind this is not a good idea. This will not take away the problem, it will only postpone it.
  
  
 
  
  No consolidation is better than a hasty consolidation. But on a broader scale, more than 20 entities with largely the same majority ownership are trying to do the same thing.Some of them are doing it efficiently while others are trying to mimic them in a poor fashion which really doesn't make a good business sense.So, from that perspective, you can have lesser entities so there is a better utilisation of resources. To my mind, consolidation should give a geographical spread to the merged entity or it should give them a better product range, or it should give them complimentary human skills.
  
  
 
  
  As long as it is a growing concern, there will be an unfinished agenda.Asset Quality Review is going on and that is the most visible unfinished agenda. Unless it reaches a logical conclusion, it is not a finished one. Secondly, in supervision, there was a fundamental shift this year that we moved from traditional Annual Financial Inspection (AFI) to risk-based supervision covering all banks. Similarly,   is another area. First year, we did a pilot of three banks on separate IT audits. Last year, we increased it to 30 banks and this year we are covering every bank for separate cyber security and IT audit. We have prepared blueprint for the national mission for financial literacy which is getting final shape. 
