AHMEDABAD: Anshu Jaisal (41) and her mother Kamla were arrested from Mulund in Mumbai and brought to Chankheda on Friday, based on a complaint filed by a family from   area. The complainants, the Brahmbhatts, have said that Anshu had not only faked her profile as an unmarried woman on a matrimonial site and ensnared their son Ravi, but had also later demanded Rs 50 lakh to give custody of the child born to her and Ravi. Police have registered an   charging Anshu and her family members with cheating and breach of trust. 

 Anshu married Ravi in November 2013 and deserted him in October 2016, taking with her   and their two-year-old son Himalaya. Rakesh Brahmbhatt, Ravi’s elder brother, told TOI that Ravi, who runs a courier company, was divorced at the age of 42 in 2013. 
 Ravi then registered himself as a divorced man on several matrimonial sites had chosen a few profiles, including that of Anshu’s. 
 
 Anshu’s profile indicated that she was an unmarried woman hailing from Uttar Pradesh and settled in Mumbai. The two started chatting and after several weeks decided to meet. “Ravi and Anshu met in a hotel in Mumbai for the first time in mid-2013 and he liked her,” said Rakesh. “She liked him too. We introduced her and her family to our parents. She pressed for an early wedding, saying that her brother was in the merchant navy and had to sail on duty shorty.” Rakesh said that the wedding took place in Ahmedabad and all expenses were borne by his family.
 
 Anshu was presented with 200 grams of gold ornaments. After the wedding, Anshu refused to have the marriage registered under one pretext or another. In mid-2014, Ravi overheard Anshu’s conversation with her mother during which she said she couldn’t have the marriage registered since she had been married earlier. The   became suspicious and confronted her. But she kept insisting that this was her first marriage.
 
 Online searches, however, revealed some   which exposed the fact that Anshu had been married earlier. And in July last year she left home with her son, gold ornaments, and cash. 
 
