CHENNAI: The AIADMK government under O Panneerselvam on Monday vowed to continue the policies and programmes conceived during former chief minister J Jayalalithaa soon after she formed the government in May 2016.
 
 Maharashtra   Ch Vidyasagar Rao, who is holding additional charge of  , addressed the state assembly as per the customary New Year ritual.
 
 The Governor said the ban on   was lifted because of public pressure and unity of the people.
 
 The address of the Governor was supportive of the Centre and several times praised it for its cooperation. 
  
 "The government lays great emphasis on the conservation and effective management of the limited water resources of the state. This government will launch a new programme called 'Kudimaramath' scheme soon to mobilise public participation in the management of water resources and the allocation for this scheme will be gradually increased," said the Governor.
  
 Praising former chief minister Jayalalithaa for her vision and stating that she was a tall national leader, the Governor said the government would launch a new tree planting programme to compensate for the loss of green cover in the wake of cyclone Vardah.
  
 "The government will launch a massive greening programme to replant trees in public land and facilitate private individuals and institutions to plant saplings. As tree planting and provision of green cover was a cause close to the former chief minister’s heart, the initiative will be launched on February 24, Jayalalithaa’s birth anniversary," said Rao.
  
 All ration card holders in the state will get smart cards from April 1. "The operations of the public distribution system (PDS) are being computerised in order to make it more efficient and transparent. As part of this exercise, linking of ration cards with Aadhaar numbers will be completed soon and smart family cards will be issued from April 1," said the Governor.
  
 The Governor also appreciated the peaceful protests of students and the youth seeking jallikattu and said that an act would be passed to replace the ordinance promulgated by him on Saturday to facilitate the holding of the bull sport event.
  
 The Governor praised the government for its achievements and for joining the Ujwal Discom Rejuvenation Yojana (Uday) scheme and the goods and services tax regime.
  
 Earlier as the Governor began his speech, DMK MLAs led by its working president and leader of opposition M K Stalin tried to raise the issue of farmers’ distress and drought. But, as the Governor continued to read his speech, members of DMK, Congress and IUML walked out of the House. 
 
 A special session of the assembly will be held at 5pm on Monday to pass a bill to replace an ordinance that amended the provisions of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. The ordinance promulgated on Saturday has enabled the conduct of jallikattu.
 
 
 
 
 
