Sustained action by the Army against infiltration in the   indicates the Centre's determination to stick to a security-centric approach despite protests and efforts of some opposition parties in Jammu & Kashmir to fuel the stir against the PDP-BJP government.

 At a review held in Srinagar last week, defence minister   was informed of the measures being taken by the Army brass to step up efforts to counter infiltration and track down terrorists. At press conferences in Srinagar, he said the Centre's priority was to normalise south Kashmir.
 
 The polarised environs of Srinagar make it difficult to reconcile sharply differing narratives, but locals, while not comfortable with the PDP-BJP alliance, point out that National Conference (NC) has been actively fishing in troubled waters. NC cadres and supporters have done their bit to keep protests against the state government going in a bid to increase the pressure on PDP, whose base is agitated by the protests. This, PDP's rival hopes, will raise the stress within the alliance with BJP, and calls for central rule are the supporting notes.
 
 The use of WhatsApp and other social media to circulate inflammatory videos is rampant and the role of a section of teachers in indoctrinating students, including girls, is a matter of deep concern.
 
 The Centre is committed to keep the alliance with PDP intact, and chief minister  's comments indicate the same despite some real tension in her party , which has often aligned itself with “soft separatism“.
 
 With Pakistan's active assistance to violence in Kashmir, the government is digging in for a long haul. Local sentiment in Srinagar is also pessimistic about the prospects of peace, with residents pointing out that stone-pelting is “big money“ that creates huge vested interests opposed to any resolution.
 
 The looting of bank vehicles is read as a sign that troublemakers need cash, with the utility of fake currency notes collapsing after demonetisation, to prolong the protests through the summer.
 
 At the same time, local businesses are keen on tourism reviving, and retailers say the conditions are not as unsafe as some accounts suggest and are at pains to convince visitors that tourism is feasible.
 
 The effects of a creeping radicalisation are also evident with increasingly conservative dressing and the growing role of hardline Islamic preachers. This is again at odds with the popularity of IPL, and the increasing connections of Kashmiris with the rest of India through students and trade, but extremist elements have managed to impose an unspoken and regressive public code.
 
