Most coal-fired power plants commissioned this year are not complying with the rules set by the Union environment ministry to cut emissions that cause lung diseases, acid rain and smog, the ministry said in an affidavit filed with   ( ).

 The ministry in December 2015 revised the standards for thermal power plants to control air pollution, asking them to install equipment to cut emissions of particulate matter, sulphur dioxide and nitrous oxide before December 2017.
 
 India's air is among the most polluted in the world and thermal power plants account for nearly 80% of all industrial emissions of particular matter, sulphur and nitrous oxides. Most of the old plants have not complied with the norms despite an impending deadline and have not started installing the equipment.
 
 The owners of these plants have sought more time - a demand echoed by the  , a nodal agency under the Union ministry of power -saying two years are not enough for old plants to comply.
 
 However, even the new power plants commissioned this year have not begun the process of installing the required equipment, the ministry said in the affidavit. Plants to be established in 2017 were not given any exemption and were told to adhere to the stricter pollution control standards up front.
 
 “It's clear from the ministry's own admissions that power plants are in violation of the rules and these are only a few in comparison to all the existing power plants, “  , campaigner for Greenpeace, said in a statement.
 
 Of the 16 plants commissioned this year, some have adhered to norms pertaining to PM10 emissions.
 
 But none of the plants has even started to install equipment to reduce SOx and NOx emissions, the ministry said in the affidavit with the NGT in connection with a case filed by Dahiya.
 
 The debt-laden power companies have argued that the plants do not have enough space to install the upgrades and that the standards should not apply to power plants established before the notification was issued.
 
 However, the  , which functions under the environment ministry, told the power companies last year that the plants were granted environmental clearance only on the condition that they will make space available for retrofitting to cut emissions.
 
