BHUBANESWAR: After successfully launching direct flight service to Kuala Lumpur, the state government on Wednesday sought Centre’s nod for direct air connectivity to Dubai from   (BPIA).

 The issue was discussed during a video conferencing between chief secretary A P Padhi and senior officials of the Union cabinet secretariat.
 
 “Direct air connectivity to Dubai is one of our key demands for last several years. Direct international flight from/to gulf countries is restricted to 18 places and Bhubaneswar is not part of those places. If air service to Dubai is ensured, passengers can go to US and European countries directly from the city,” chief secretary told reporters after the meeting.
 
 Asked about the Centre’s response, the chief secretary said though they have not immediately accepted the proposal, they have assured to consider it seriously.
 
 Even though there is no direct air connectivity to gulf countries, nearly 10,000 Odia people including work force, tourists and business community visit Dubai and other middle-east countries every year, industries sources said.
 
 “Having direct flight service to Dubai would help Odisha to attract tourists from European countries. Tourists from European countries visiting Odisha, now depend on Kolkata airport in absence of direct flight service to the city. Low cost air carrier FlyDubai has also evinced interest to start operation from the city,” well known tour operator   told TOI.
 
 The first direct international flight operation at Biju Patnaik International Airport to Malaysia capital Kuala Lumpur started on April 26 with the help of flight operator Air Asia. BPIA was accorded international status October, 30, 2013.
 
 The chief secretary also urged the Centre to relax the norms of   (PMGSY) for left wing extremism (LWE) affected districts. “We have requested Centre to consider villages with 100 populations for implementation of PMGSY. The Centre has relaxed norms for Koraput and Malkangiri districts, but we have requested to relax it for six more districts,” Padhi said.
 
 Padhi also demanded early completion of the 82-km long Haridaspur-Paradeep line sanctioned in 1995-96. The rail link would ensure direct link between the mineral rich pockets of the state and the Paradip port. 
 
 “The Centre assured to complete the project by December 2018, but we have urged them to commission it by March next year,” he added.
 
