KOCHI: The budget proposes to set up a   on the 60 cents at   in  . The proposed film city would be set up after the corporation takes over   along with the land.

 The corporation is planning to implement the project with the help of the   (KSFDC) and has ear marked Rs 1 crore for the purpose.
 
 T hough the   had ordered in favour of the local body taking over the Kokers Theatre and the land, the corporation could not execute it so far. The local body needs to give Rs 63 lakh to the theatre owners as cost of the building. However, the theatre owners owe Rs 33 lakhs to the local body as lease and due to this, the acquisition procedures were delayed.
 
 The opposition had raised the issue of delay in executing the court order in the last three or four councils. Councillors from both the opposition and the ruling party expressed concern that the corporation might lose the land if it delays the acquisition. It was only on March 18, that the council took a decision to comply with the order of the court.
 
 
 
 
 The corporation had presented a proposal to construct a memorial for poet G Sankara Kurup in its previous budgets. But that proposal was missing in the 201718 budget. It seems, authorities are unsure if they will be able to complete the same this time.
 
 Mayor, Soumini Jain said the lack clarity on the extent of land allotted was the reason why the project was in limbo. “When A K Antony was the chief minister, the government allotted one acre in Kochi for the purpose.Later, the extent of land allotted for the project came down,“ Jain said.
 
 Deputy mayor T J Vinod said that the project was pulled out since the corporation was `ashamed of including the proposal in yet another budget'.Even while admitting their failure, corporation authorities couldn't explain the measures they had taken to ensure that the project would be implemented in future. It has not prepared a detailed project report for the project.
 
 Meanwhile, the local body in   near  , where Kurup was born, has already constructed a memorial in his name.
 
