BENGALURU: Two of India’s promising athletes fell prey to the callous attitude of the selection committee and the politics played by few of its top officials as the   ( ) invented reasons to deny its own Asian champions   and   Saroj and seasoned campaigner   a place in the Indian team for the World Athletics Championships.

 What was the message that the selectors, more clearly AFI’s top brass, wanted to communicate to the aspiring junior athletes in the country by excluding Allahabad boy Ajay, the 20-year-old who climbed the Asian podium after battling poverty, and Chitra, daughter of agricultural labourers from Palakkad in Kerala? Both won an automatic qualification winning the Asian title but the AFI forced them to run again in an inconsequential Inter-State meet scheduled less than a week after the Asian meet ended.
 
 Take the case of Ajay. As per the selectors’ findings, Ajay’s performance dropped by 0.03 seconds when they compared his timings in Bhubaneswar and Guntur. To further dent the athlete’s morale, the selectors also wrote in their remarks - “timing not better than even Indian junior (U-20) national record of 3:44.96s”. Little did they realize that it was Ajay’s own record which he had set while competing in the World U-20 Championships held last year in Bydgoszcz in Poland.
 
 “The selectors have sent a very wrong message by omitting two of India’s top junior athletes. There is no denying that injustice has been done to these athletes,” a national coach told STOI on condition of anonymity.
 
 Even in Chitra’s case, she reserved her best for the Asian meet where she beat Japan’s Ayako Jinnouchi who had the season’s best time going into the final. Though the selectors pointed at Sapna Barman’s fine performance at such a young age, they failed to apply the same yardstick for Chitra who had previously won the gold in the Asian Schools Championship.
 
 Asked why the selectors ignored these youngsters, an AFI official said. “They got flak when the jumbo Indian contingent flopped in Rio. So this time they wanted to make a proper selection and hence they dropped three athletes. Now, (as per the Kerala High Court’s order) we have sent a request to the world body to grant Chitra an entry.”
 
 Similarly, Sudha Singh, who had skipped the Guntur meet, was ignored by the selectors despite having proved her class repeatedly on the world’s stage. Sudha clocked 9:26.55 while competing in the Diamond League meet in Shanghai last May which was way below the Worlds qualification mark of 9:42.00s. Only that her time missed the mark as the qualification period started from October 1, 2016.
 
