BENGALURU: In what has been a particularly harsh summer, pre-monsoon showers have provided the people much needed respite in the past few weeks, and   is eagerly waiting for the onset of the southwest monsoon, expected to hit the state in the first week of June. 

 Although the   (IMD) has forecast a normal monsoon (96%) for 2017, the Karnataka government wants to leave nothing to chance, and is preparing the state for the worst.
 
 Agriculture minister Krishna   told TOI that all officials had been instructed to prepare contingency plans to handle the eventuality of a monsoon failure. “The forecast looks positive. But the state is reeling under successive droughts, and we cannot afford to put the farming community at risk based on the presumption that the rainfall will be good this season,“ he added.
 
 The state government's cautious approach is largely the consequence of the bitter experiences it has had, after weather forecast for 2016 proved wrong. While the IMD predicted above normal rainfall (108%) last year, the state registered a 24% deficit in rain. “Historically, such blunders have been known to happen.So, we are on our guard this time,“ said Byre Gowda.
 
 The minister said that the government had made prepa rations to realize its target of sowing 73lakh hectares across the state. Against a requirement of 8.5 lakh quintals of seeds that need to be distributed to farmers at subsidized rates, the government has stocked up 8.51 lakh quintals, Byre Gowda said. “We will distribute seeds for sorghum, pearl millet, black gram, alasande, maize, paddy, ragi, tur, groundnut, fox tail miller, soya and sunflower,“ he added.
 
 In anticipation of the fertilizer demand touching 2.2 lakh tonnes, the government has already stocked up 2.04 lakh tonnes in all districts, and the distribution process has started. Besides which, plans are afoot to dig 70,000 new farm ponds to collect rainwater, and 42,000 pumpsets are set to be distributed to farmers.
 
 “All this will be put to use only in the event of good rainfall. If the monsoon fails, the state will be heading for a crisis. Foodgrains will be in short supply , and the common man will have to deal with a steep rise in prices,“ said an official with the agriculture department.
 
 Moreover, a monsoon failure and drought could compound problems for chief minister Siddaramaiah's government in the election year, while a normal monsoon could boost the government's popularity in rural areas. On the other hand, the   state unit's fortune is contingent on how Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government at the Centre reacts if there is another drought.
 
