HYDERABAD: To protect government land located in prime areas, the Hyderabad district administration has decided to utilise the latest technology 'Geo-Tagging' to protect land parcels from land sharks. After the Miyapur land scam jolted the state government, the Hyderabad revenue machinery has chalked out plans to protect government land, worth hundreds of crores, and digitise land records.

 Though the Hyderabad revenue officials maintain data pertaining to government land in the city , the officials were not sure about the accuracy of the records. Several parcels of government land were caught in legal tangles or were encroached upon by land sharks, either by fabricating documents or claiming the land belongs to their ancestors.
 
 “To know the exact extent of government land, free from litigation or encroached upon, we have decided to utilise latest technology of -geo-taggin. Recently ,a team of officials from Mangalore came to the Hyderabad collectorate and gave a PowerPoint presentation on government   in their jurisdiction.We were impressed with their presentation and decided to follow a similar model in Hyderabad district too. As part of the exercise, we have already deployed special deupty collectors and assigned them to conduct a detailed survey on encroached government land in the Hyderabad district jurisdiction,“ Hyderabad joint collector and in-charge collector   told TOI.
 
 “Once the survey is completed, all details of protected government land and encroached land will be posted on the Hyderabad collectorate web portal for the convenience of the general public.
 
 If somebody wants to either purchase or sell land, all the person has to do is visit the  : hyderabad.telangana.gov.in to know the details of parcel of land.At the click of a mouse, he she can get details, including image of the land concerned, area, mandal, extent, category of land, whether it is government or private, and also whether is under encroachment or free from litigation,“ she added.
 
 To complete the project, it might take at least a year and hope to complete by 2018. “We needed Rs 3 crore for this project. Though we had faced  , we decided to draw from `crucial balance fund' (CBF),“ she added.
 
