If you haven’t got on the boyfriend fashion bandwagon you are missing out on a lot of fun. Technically, boyfriend fashion doesn’t mean you raid your beau’s wardrobe. But hey, if the shirt fits, wear it by all means. Ever borrowed your partner’s button-down shirt as a quick fashion fix? Then you already know these oversized boyfriend pieces help put together a killer, menswear-inspired look. 

 
 
 Designer Priyanka Gangwal feels that the menswear cut breaks the monotony and gives you an edgy look. Boyfriend clothing is usually one size bigger than a woman’s actual size, and is flattering when styled properly. ''Skinny fits and narrow silhouettes are increasingly being replaced with broader shoulders and loose, long sleeves,'' she adds. 
 Designer Aniket Satam says that boyfriend styles are not trend-based. ''Instead of actual men’s clothing, the trend this year is more about using masculine elements and altering them for a better fit on a feminine body line,'' he says. 
 
 
 Designer Esha Sethi Thirani suggests wearing his accessories if you don’t want to go the whole hog. Like his gold watch or his scarf. Her advice: ''Wear his watch by layering your wrist with bracelets to make sure it doesn’t slip off.'' She also suggests picking scarves in thicker fabrics and manly patterns like stripes and gingham. 
 The boyfriend style is all about comfort and ease. The good bit: It compliments any, and every, body type as it is based on anti-fits. Plus, sharing your partner’s clothes is a subtle way to flaunt your relationship status!
 
  
 Some of the most stylish women have been sporting oversized men's denims for years. Pick a pair of worn, light-washed jeans and roll them at the ankles. Create an elasticated texture by cinching the waist with a long stole or a broad tan belt. Team it with simple crop tops or fitted ones.
 
 
 Give your man’s concert tees and vintage band tees a fresh spin by pairing them with your girly items. Wear this oversized item with distressed ripped denim shorts or go with simple white crew T-shirts with DIY badges.
 
 
 Think XXL and chunky patterns like cable knits in neutral colours. Layer them with fitted ribbed dresses for a classy appeal. Or go complete grunge by teaming 
 distressed sweaters with fitted leather tights.
 
 
  
  (His Denim Pants, His Jacket, His Shirt)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Steal his denim jacket and team it with simple, neutral tank tops and shorts. Go for contrast by teaming his jacket with super feminine and flirty dresses. Or wear his 
 blazer over a loose-fit pants.
 
 
 Pinstripes or crisp white button-down, the classic male formal shirt looks great when paired with almost anything in your wardrobe. Just roll the sleeves up and stack some gold pendant chains. Or sport an oversized pinstripe banker shirt as a dress by cinching the waist.
 
 
