KOCHI: Senior officials did not have to think twice when they were in need of an efficient investigating officer to probe the conspiracy angle in the actor rape case.  , posted as the Perumbavoor CI, had already proved his skills in the Jisha murder case and a robbery by a gang with terror links who posed as vigilance officials. He was brought in after the probe in the Jisha murder faced criticism due to lack of pace.

 The probe team looking into the conspiracy was in need of a new investigating officer (IO) after   had to take up a new position as security officer with   in view of the short period left in his tenure.
 
 The department went with CI Baiju Poulose as investigator considering his track record and the fact that he was involved in the case from the beginning.
 
 Senior officials with the rural police said the details of the investigation into the actor rape conspiracy was kept under tight wraps because of fear that it would be leaked. Poulose used to visit the cyber cell office in Aluva, mostly alone to trace the call records which proved to be vital in linking the actor to the case, officials said.
 
 “Criminal conspiracy is not easy to prove as we have to rely on circumstantial evidence before unearthing solid proof. It was the effort taken by Baiju that lead to unearthing of call records which finally broke Dileep during the questioning,“ said a senior officer.
 
 The fact that Angamali CI was having additional charge of Nedumbassery at the time of the investigation also made the department look for a new investigator.
 
 Poulose was assisted by a few other investigators, including the North Paravur CI , Kalamassery CI, Aluva CI and the Angamali CI.
 
 The presence of crime branch SP K S Sudarshan who had worked with Baiju Poulose at the time when he used to have the charge of Perumbavoor also added to the pace of investigation in the crime.
 
 Officers say that the evidence is fool-proof and the findings would keep Dileep in jail at least till the investigation is over.
 
