NEW DELHI: At least sixteen   were killed and 26 seriously injured when the bus in which they were travelling plunged into a gorge in Jammu and Kashmir's Ramban district on Sunday, police said.

 "The bus, bearing registration number JK02Y 0594, was heading towards Srinagar when it rolled down into a gorge near an Army camp in Nachilana area of Banihal in Ramban district following a rear tyre burst," Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Ramban, Mohan Lal said, adding, "injured were shifted to a local hospital for treatment."
 
 "Sixteen pilgrims were killed on the spot while 26 others have been injured," a police officer said. The deceased comprised 14 men and two women. 
 
 Of the injured, five were taken to Srinagar, 19 others airlifted to Jammu's Government Medical College Super Speciality Hospital, and two were being treated in Government hospital in Banihal.
 
 The spokesman said the bus carried 46 persons including the driver and most of them were from Rajasthan and Bihar.
 
 Army, police and paramilitary forces launched a rescue operation which was joined by locals, who helped to take out the injured pilgrims from the wreckage site.
 
 Army helicopters flew the injured to Jammu city.
 
 Prime Minister  , Home Minister  , Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister   and former Chief Minister   expressed grief over the accident.
  
  
  
  
 "Extremely pained by the loss of lives of Amarnath Yatris due to a bus accident in J&K. My thoughts are with families of the deceased,"PM Modi tweeted.
  
  
  
  
 Rajnath Singh said he spoke to Mehbooba Mufti regarding the accident. She apprised him about the rescue operations. 
 
 "My heart goes out to the families of the Amarnath yatris who lost their loved ones in the bus accident. My prayers are with the injured," he added.
 
  
  
  
 Meanwhile, PM Modi has also announced an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakhs for next of kin of those killed and Rs 50,000 for those seriously injured.
 
  
  
 Jammu and Kashmir government also issued helpline numbers (0191-2560401, 0191-2542000) to enquire about Amarnath Yatris travelling in the ill-fated bus that met with accident in Ramban today.
  
  
 This is the second tragedy to hit the Amarnath pilgrimage since 
  killing eight people.
 
 The Amarnath hill shrine, dedicated to Lord Shiva, is located more than 3,800 meters above sea level in Anantnag district.
 
 
