JALANDHAR: After receiving permission from local authorities in Bangladesh to provide humanitarian relief to Rohingya refugees reaching the country,   is all set to start serving langar to the displaced people soon. Volunteers of the group have already purchased ingredients, utensils and other material necessary to prepare food in the free community kitchen for around 30,000 people on day one.

 Meanwhile, since Sunday, Khalsa Aid volunteers started distributing bottled water, biscuits and bread to the refugees arriving at Teknaf, the southernmost town where Rohingyas are reaching after crossing the Naf river.
 
 “After receiving the permission on Tuesday, we purchased utensils, vegetables and other material for preparing food for 30,000 people on the first day. We have picked up a site where the refugees are landing with a few of their belongings and without food,” said  , managing director, Khalsa Aid (India), who reached Bangladesh with volunteer Jiwanjot Singh from Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday.
 
 “We have made purchases for a week and plan to continue the relief effort for a longer time,” he said. He said they had tied up with a local mosque which would provide them some support for cooking langar. Already, 18 volunteers from the local Bangladeshi community have joined us to help prepare and distribute food,” he said.
 
 “Eight more volunteers from India will join us after two days to further strengthen our relief work,” the MD said. “Till we start langar on Wednesday morning, we distributing emergency supplies like biscuits, bread and water, as refugees who have been reaching here, are in desperate need of food,” he said.
 
 Rohingyas’ plight start figuring in religious discourses
 
 The plight of Rohingya Muslims fleeing Myanmar is now finding mention in discourses of some Sikh preachers. Delivering a religious discourse at Gurdwara Dookh Niwaran, Ludhiana, on Monday, prominent Sikh religious preacher,  , mentioned the plight of these refugees and also exhorted the Sikhs to reach out to those in need and asked them to direct their donations for the relief efforts being made for these refugees. He quoted references from scriptures and Sikh literature to emphasise that it was duty of the Sikhs to help the poor and needy.
 
