

 Half a century ago, nobody had even heard the term ‘generation gap’. And man has been here for thousands of years. But no society, no culture,no civilisation was bothered with the generation gap. So, a few things have to be understood: how it came into existence, what it is, and what its final implications are. In the past,by the age of six or seven at the most, children used to follow their fathers’ professions, whatever it was, and help in howsoever little ways they could.Always, the older generation was the wiser generation. Just being old was enough to be wise, because knowing came only through one door, and that was experience.And experience needs time. Obviously the children were so new they did not have enough time to compete with the older generation. Those who had lived long became more respected because they were more experienced.They knew more things than others.This created the phenomenon of respect for the old. So whatever the older people were saying was bound to be right.
 
 The generation gap was not there, the generations were overlapping.The older generation,before retiring, prepared the newer generation to take over the work. There was no opportunity for the youth to declare their individuality.
 
 They were part and parcel of the older generation.They had come out of the womb of the mother,but they never came out of the womb of the older generation. So it was a deeply connected world. How did the generation gap come into being? Scientific progress has given people time for their children to be educated in schools, colleges and universities. Now a new door has opened for learning. In the whole past there was only one possibility to learn and that was from the older generation. Now a new door has opened for learning. Experience moves at a very slow pace, but education depends on your intelligence.You don’t have to depend on the pace at which education is moving. And during these 25 years of education, you are no more under the control of your parents, of your society, of your priests. In these 25 years you have no responsibility,you are not married. In the past, marriage used to happen too early. In the past, there has never been anything like youth.Youth is a new phenomenon,the younger generation is a new phenomenon.It is a by-product of scientific progress.
 
 Scientific progress has given so much technology and children are allowed to have many years in the universities to learn. Secondly, when there was no science, nothing was changing. Everything was as it had always been.The bullock cart was there for centuries. It was still the only vehicle. So the older generation knew everything, because everything was old. When the student comes back home after five years in the university, he knows more than the older generation. That is the problem; that is what is creating the generation gap.To him even his own parents look foolish, out of date,knowing nothing.This has taken away the respect that was taken for granted in the past.You cannot respect someone who looks to you completely out of date,who does not know what has happened in the last 25 years. The growth and the pace of growth is such that what did not happen before in 25 centuries now happens in 25 years. Naturally, a tremendous gap between the older and the newer generation is bound to happen. It is inevitable. The newer generation knows more, for the first time in the history of man, than the older generation. And this gap is widening. It has stopped the communication between the older generation and the newer generation, because conversation is so difficult. Parents have their own egos; they are not going to sit at the feet of their own children and learn from them. And children have their own egos; they know more.Why should they sit at the feet of their parents and learn from them things which have proved to be completely wrong? They speak almost different languages. All lines of communication are completely blocked. I can see the reason why things have changed.The new generation is not responsible. It is not their crime.
 
 It is simply a totally different set of circumstances. And the older generation should show a little more understanding, a little more readiness to listen to the new generation, because they are the future. In the past, the past used to rule the future.Now things are otherwise: the future is going to rule over everything. The new generation is going to have a greater future and the older generation has to learn for the first time to be humble, loving. Perhaps if they are humble and loving they may be still respected for their love and for their humbleness, and there may continue a certain communication. But they have to understand clearly that they represent the past and the new generation represents the future, and the gap is BIG. It looks strange to learn from your own children, but I don’t think it is strange — just the situation has changed. For thousands of years, children have learned from you. Now start learning from your children. Start looking at the world through the eyes of your children, and the gap will disappear. 
 
 
 
 
