BENGALURU: Apple CEO   hailed PM Narendra Modi's   and said that the company sold more phones during the last quarter despite the cash crunch in India. In a quarter that saw Apple setting record sales globally, sales in India also saw double digit growth. It was an all-time record sale, Cook told investors in the quarterly earnings call. 

  Since Cook's visit to India, investors have been curious about Apple's strategy in the country, especially since the company is facing declining sales globally. Many investors see India with its rising per capita income becoming another China for the firm in another decade. TOI had reported that Apple is looking to set up an assembly unit in Bengaluru and is talking to the government for concessions. 
 
  Cook reiterated Apple's commitment to investing in India and added that the company is in talks with the government to open retail stores. "We are in discussions on a number of things, including retail stores, and fully intend to invest significantly in the country and believe it's a great place to be," he said. 
 
  Cook said that while tablet sales have been declining globally, India saw growth. "We posted double-digit growth in both Mainland China and India, as we have expanded distribution channels in those countries and we continue to attract a very high percentage of first-time tablet buyers," he said. Apple India clocked Rs 9,997 crore in sales in 2015-16, up 56% from Rs 6,472 crore in the year before. "The middle class is growing in places like China, India and Brazil. The level of interest for our products continues to be phenomenal. The brand continues to be very aspirational. There are more and more people that can afford our products around the world," Cook said. 
 
  While the note ban impact has not worked its way through yet, it was a great move, Cook said. "It's still definitely having some overhang. But I think in the longer term, it's a great move, and I feel really good about how we're doing there," Cook added. 
 
 
