KOCHI: The mystery shrouding the signage board deal struck by the Kochi corporation has thickened even as more and more details have come to the fore. 

 As per the discussions held in the council meeting on Friday, it has been revealed that the awarding of tender for the deal, for which anticipatory approval was given during the tenure of the former council, was rectified six months after the firm failed to keep the deadline.
 
 The job of erecting 4,440 signage boards was awarded to Kochi-based Outlook Communication in September, 2015. But the decision to award the work to Outlook was rectified in the council held on June 21, 2016. Interestingly, the work should have been completed by December 25, 2015. "As per the rules, anticipatory approvals should get rectified at the next council meeting. The administrative sanction for the project also was given anticipatory approval. This is grave violation," said C K Peter, councillor from Konthuruthy.
 
 Citing misappropriations in handling the file by an official, mayor Jain   had referred the case to vigilance and anticorruption bureau ( ) recommending inquiry into the case in December last year. On Friday's council meeting, the mayor's decision came up for the council's consideration. 
 
 According to the mayor, she recommended vigilance inquiry into issue after it was revealed that the firm flouted the agreement. "We had sought legal opinion which also suggested vigilance probe into the case. Moreover, I consulted local self-government department principal secretary   who also suggested vigilance inquiry," Soumini Jain said.
 
 Meanwhile, additional secretary A S Anooja said the legal opinion was for terminating the deal and not for vigilance probe. Ruling out the allegation that she tried to help the private firm by informing the standing committee's decision, Anooja said she had just tried to recover the centage charges due from the private firm.   alleged that the entire deal was stage-managed by a team led by former mayor Tony Chammany.
 
