GURUGRAM: The   has decided to shut down as many as 16   in the   due to acute shortage of  , sources said.

 Protection watchers — the frontline staff in the forest department — are, in fact, working at half strength in the ecologically sensitive Aravalis, which has been on the radar of real estate developers. These protection watchers play an important role by keeping a check over any environmental violation in the Aravalis.
 
 “There are nearly 70 checkposts of the forest department in the entire  . While the forest department earlier used to deploy one to two protection watchers at every checkpost, the number has now come down to zero,” sources said.
 
 “As the forest department is not authorised to spend more than Rs 50,000 on its own as per a government directive, we released tenders for hiring protection watchers twice inviting companies to come forward for providing protection watchers. However, no company has approached the forest department yet. Now, it seems that at least 16 Aravali check posts will have to be closed,” sources said.
 
 When contacted, a senior official told TOI, “We released a tender in March-April inviting companies to come forward for providing protection watchers. However, there has been no response from any company so far. While 50 per cent of the protection watchers were laid off in May, the situation has become worse now. We may soon have to abolish some checkposts.”
 
 RP Balwan, former conservator of forests (Gurgaon Circle), said, “Protection watchers are very important for the Aravalis. I think the tendering process should be withdrawn and funds should rather be put in village forest committees. We should make local people responsible for protection of the environment in their areas. That is the best way to deal with any kind of environmental violations.”
 
 Activists also raised a concern.
 
 Jitender Bhadana, a Faridabad-based environmentalist, said environmental violations have increased in the Aravalis in the past few months. “As the number of protection watchers is going down, there has been a rise in the number of violations. Earlier the forest department at least used to respond to our complaints. Now, the situation is worse,” he said.
 
 In 2004, the Supreme Court banned all non-forest activities in the Aravalis, covered under Section 4&5 of Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA), without prior approval of the central government as per the Forest Conservation Act, 1980.
 
 
