AMRAVATI: The Amravati Municipal Corporation’s drive against use of plastic carry bags (pannies) is inviting resentment from small vendors who are being fined Rs 5000.

 Ever since the   has put a blanket ban on the use of plastic carry bags, the AMC has geared up to implement the SC ruling in the strictest possible way. AMC Deputy Commissioner  , who is spearheading the drive, told TOI that the civic body has made a beginning with small vendors. 
 
 “There is a penalty of Rs 5000 at first violation for small vendors, Rs 10,000 at the second violation and Rs 25,000 plus an FIR at the third violation. For wholesale suppliers and manufacturers it is straight Rs 25,000 a well as an FIR,” he said.
 
 Small vendors like dairy owners, egg and vegetable vendors who use plastic carry bags to parcel goods of their customers are at the receiving end of the AMC drive even as the wholesalers and manufacturers are out of the civic body’s reach.
 
 “Instead of targeting us and fining us vindictively, the AMC should do well to attack the roots,” said a fuming dairy shop owner in Ambapeth locality, who was fined Rs 5000 last evening for using a plastic carry bag to parcel curd for his customer.
 
 “Plastic carry bags are not being manufactured in the city but they are being smuggled into the city,” said Mahesh Deshmukh. “We have made a beginning with small vendors and expect them to spill the beans about the wholesalers from whom they procure bags. At present, we don’t have any definite information about the wholesale suppliers but if we continue to target small vendors, we hope to get names of the wholesale suppliers from them. We are confident that in next 10-15 days we will be able to lay our hands on them,” Deshmukh told TOI.
 
 The question is, why doesn’t AMC raid manufacturing industries directly? 
 
 “Well, we cannot enter industries directly. We need to take the help of  , which issues licenses to them. There were some 16 industries before. Now there are about six. We are also planning to conduct raids there with the help of MPCB. We will do that when we have concrete information,” said Deshmukh. “We have planted informers and expect to get information soon,” added Ravindra Wankhade, Dy Commissioner (Administration).
 
 “We urge small vendors to stop using banned plastic carry bags to avoid heavy fines. We are enforcing SC orders strictly,” said Deshmukh.
 
 
