KOCHI: All the three   in the state should have separate identities and having a single person managing the three would not be a good idea, said representatives of various companies in Infopark during an interaction on the proposed IT policy.

 The companies raised concern that quality of service would be compromised on the unification of IT parks.There are a lot of issues which needs to be taken by a person of authority. One of the suggestions presented was to have a person of authority appointed for each IT parks who shall be reporting to the CEO of   which will be recommended for amendment. CEO explained that decision has been taken to integrate all the three parks as Kerala IT brand.
 
 The IT department has been holding discussions with the stakeholders in all the three parks. Following the announcement of the IT policy, Kerala IT Parks chief executive officer Hrishikesh Nair initiated discussion with Infopark based IT companies on Tuesday. Opening the debate, Hris hikesh Nair set the tone for the meeting by presenting some of the initiatives taken by the government including creating a unified Kerala IT Parks brand for the three IT Parks, and engaging Kerala state IT infrastructure limited for the land acquisition and creation of new IT buildings and parks. He said that government is proposing construction of a total of 20 million sq ft of IT space across Kerala.
 
 The meeting organized by   (Group of Technopark companies) was moderated by Anoop Ambica, former secretary GTech. Among those who put forth suggestions in cluded former Technopark CEO Girish Babu, Vinod Tharakan, MD&CEO, Claysys; Mukund Krishna, CEO, Suyati Technologies; Binu Jacob, CEO Experion Technologies; Rejish Unni, MD Think Palm Technologies; Shilen Sugunan, MD, SS Consulting and Sijo Kuruvilla, former CEO, Startup Village.
 
 Girish Babu said that KSITIL which managed land acquisition and constructions of new IT infrastructure did not have adequate and qualified staff to take up this responsibility.
 
 In order to attract young talents to the state, the social infrastructure in IT parks needs to be augmented. Regarding moving up the value and technology chains, companies felt that there is a difficulty in attracting right talents to the state and the government should initiate action to modify the curriculum of engineering colleges in Kerala.
 
