Gurgaon: After waiting for more than two weeks for authorities to revert on their demands, residents of Sushant Lok-1 have decided to hit the road again on Saturday. This time, the residents are hoping to rope in people from other developer areas such as DLF, Ardee City and South City-1, which are suffering similarly due to lack of basic infrastructure and delay in takeover by the  .

 “We have waited for over two weeks, however there has been no response from the civic authorities or the district administration on our demands. This time, we have reached out to residents of other private colonies having similar issues and have received positive response from all of them. We are hopeful of them joining the protest too,” said Neelu Sharma, who has been anchoring the protest since the beginning. 
 
 “The protest will start from Marriott hotel and move towards Huda City Centre,” she added. Residents are expecting a gathering of around 500 people this time and if it goes like the last time, it could lead to a massive jam near the busy Huda City Centre junction.
 
 Sushant Lok-1 is one of the three developer areas due for MCG takeover in the first phase. The society is currently in shams with non-existent roads, insufficient power infrastructure, water supply issues and sanitation problems.
 
 The residents had, on February 11, blocked the traffic on the road connecting Vyapar Kendra and Huda City Centre, demanding basic infrastructure in their area and takeover of their colony by the MCG.
 
 Meanwhile, 13 different residents’ welfare associations from Sushant Lok-1 met on Sunday to form a joint action group, called Sushant Lok Residents’ Joint Action Group, which plans to raise issues of faulty planning, infrastructure deficit and deficiency in maintenance services in the colony.
 
 “If we see no progress despite our efforts, we will stage protest marches and strikes, including hunger strike,” said AK Nagpal, moderator for the joint action group.
 
 When contacted, MCG officials said the takeover process requires a legal amendment, which is under process and is expected to be concluded soon. “And once that is complete, the corporation will take up the infrastructure work in these areas,” an official said.
 
 
