NAGPUR: In a bid to expedite leopard and  , transit and rescue centres, and plans related to existing zoos, the   (MZA) has invited   (EoI) to shortlist consultants.

 Forest minister Sudhir Mungantiwar has announced setting up of four   in the state — one each in Chandrapur, Pune, Borivali and Amravati. However, work on not even one has started seriously. Target is to complete leopard safaris in Chandrapur and Borivali first and the remaining two safaris.
 
 “The EoI is basically for empanelment of up to 10 zoo consultants, mostly for the safari projects. The last date for receiving proposals is April 7,” said wildlife wing officials.
 
 Though proposals have been flowing in, a five-member committee headed by chief wildlife warden will finalize the consultants. When tenders for safaris will be floated, these consultants will vie for the projects.
 
 Officials said the proposals have been invited from individuals, consulting firms and consortium engaged in zoo and safari consulting business for last five years. The consultant will be writing detailed project report (DPR), master plan for zoos, designing master layout plan and enclosures, all preparatory works for getting requisite permissions from   (CZA) and preparation of proposals under Forest Conservation Act (FCA).
 
 “All the proposed leopard safaris are in forest areas and will be set up in at least 25-30 hectare area. Hence these projects will need clearance under FCA,” they said.
 
 The MZA has prepared working conditions for finally empanelled consultants and duration of empanelment will be three years. A security deposit of Rs10,000 will have to be made by all the empanelled consultants.
 
 “They will be considered technically qualified and limited bidding process will take place for lowest financial proposal at later stage of every work and financial bids will be in the form of percentage to the estimated cost of the project,” said officials.
 
 The MZA has kept a 2% cap for consultancy fee of the project cost. In the said fee consultants will have to prepare master plan layout, DPR, detailed and structural designs of animal enclosures and other zoo infrastructure, besides, completion of tender documents and process.
 
