The anti-corruption bureau ( ) on Monday registered an   against former revenue minister   and three others, including his wife and son-in-law, in Pune in connection with a 3.1-acre land deal at MIDC, Bhosari.

 On March 8, the Bombay high court directed ACB to investigate a complaint filed by   at Bund Garden police station on May 30, 2016, for a probe into the land deal. Gawande had moved court after police did not act on his complaint. The ACB has now annexed his complaint letter with the FIR for offences punishable under sections 13 (1) (d), 13 (2) and 15 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, which deal with criminal misconduct by a public servant for obtaining pecuniary gains for him or any other person, and IPC Section 109 (abetment).
 
 Khadse had to step down as minister in June last year amid charges that he had influenced government officials and helped his family members corner the plot belonging to MIDC at a throwaway price of Rs 3.75 crore as against the value of Rs 31.01 crore.
 
 The ACB probe, to be monitored by an additional director general of police, will be independent of the judicial commission inquiry, the court had said.
 
 Additional superintendent of police (ACB) Prasad Hasabnis told TOI, “The case against Khadse is that he allegedly abused his authority to purchase the land in the name of his family members for securing heavy compensation from MIDC. We will soon issue notices summoning all suspects named in the FIR to record their statements.”
 
 Gawande said, “The complaint is to probe the motive behind the deal considering that Khadse’s wife Mandakini and son-in-law Girish Chaudhari executed a sale deed on April 28, 2016, with the original land owner Abbas Ukani for Rs 3.75 crore as against its real value of Rs 31.01 crore.” Ukani is also named in the FIR.
 
 The MIDC had acquired the land in 1971, though the issue of compensation to the Ukanis remains a matter of dispute in court.
 
 Gawande alleged that Khadse took personal interest in convening a meeting of revenue, MIDC and land acquisition officials on April 12, 2016, and directed them to take a quick decision on whether to return the land to the Ukanis or give them a higher compensation under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transperancy in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. A fortnight later, the Ukanis executed the sale deed in favour of Khadse’s wife and son-in-law. Gawande told TOI, “The complaint is also to probe the intention behind the purchase of land...and the Khadses’ source of income.”
 
 
