Vadodara: Having faced a setback last season, Baroda Ranji selectors reposed faith in specialists this season. 

 The Baroda team will have specialist batsmen and bowlers when they take on the opponents in the league round beginning next month. All-rounder Irfan Pathan has been named captain of the team while Deepak Hooda will be the vice-captain. 
 
 “Last season, we scored big in our league games but the team failed to bowl out the opposition as we didn’t have specialist bowlers. This season, we decided to have specialists in batting and bowling department,” said Leslie Fernandez, chairman of Ranji selectors. Irfan said that Baroda did well in the one-day games in last several seasons and it will have to improve its performance in the four-day games. He added that the pressure will be on the fast bowlers to perform this season. 
 
 The Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) has also decided to focus on producing a good bench strength of fast bowlers. “I want to play well for the team but my focus will also on producing good fast bowlers in next few years. Fast bowlers have always been our strength as we don’t have quality spinners. Baroda should have four to six quality fast bowlers,” Irfan said. 
 
 Apart from Irfan and Hooda, selectors have picked up Yusuf Pathan, Kedar Devdhar, Aditya Waghmode, Vishnu Solanki, Pinal Shah, Swapnil Singh, Rishi Arothe, Ketul Patel, Babasafi Khan Pathan, Soaeb Tai, Lukman Meriwala, Atit Sheth and Mitesh Patel for the first two Ranji games. Krunal Pandya wasn’t selected as he is undergoing rehabilitation. Baroda will play three games at home and three away. 
 
 Focus will also be on fitness of the players this season. “All our players underwent yo-yo tests endurance tests to examine and improve their fitness. It is a gruelling test taken by our physio Dr Danny Pereira and trainer Rakesh Gohil. All our players are in good shape now,” said Snehal Parikh, BCA secretary (in-charge). 
 
 Baroda’s newly appointed Ranji coach, Atul Bedade said, “My job as a coach is to motivate the players and I want to work on their strength.” 
 
 
