New Delhi: Sacked Delhi minister Kapil   on Sunday claimed that a   being probed for the alleged Rs 400-crore numberplate scam funded the Russia tours of   functionaries Sanjay Singh and Ashutosh.

 Mishra claimed that “in the 49 days of our government , a committee was formed to probe this (number-plate) scam. It was decided that the contract of this company would be cancelled. But in the second term of the government, it wasn’t done. The same person took Singh and Ashutosh to Russia”.
 
 Mishra posed a set of nine questions to chief minister  . “Do you know Sheetal Prasad Singh, who is into the business of high-security numberplates? Do you know about the Rs 400-crore scam and do you know Sheetal is directly connected to companies that are facing a probe in this scam and has been director of some of these companies? Do you know that some of these companies have links with hawala transactions? (sic)” he asked Kejriwal.
 
 Mishra, however, didn’t give any evidence of Sheetal Singh's link with the companies. 
 
 In January 2016, BJP had approached ACB to register an FIR in the alleged scam. The controversy relates to a contract between the transport department and a private company (Rosmerta), which was “terminated” after which the company went into arbitration. Satish Upadhyay, the then Delhi BJP chief, had alleged that the company was allowed to issue the numberplates “under the garb of arbitration”.
 
 The matter was sent to an arbitration tribunal by Najeeb Jung, the then LG. Rosmerta has claimed that the arbitration tribunal, in its order May 21, 2016, restrained the Delhi government from taking any “final action” without its permission. In 2016, the transport department wrote to ACB, recommending an FIR against the company in connection with the alleged irregularities.
 
 “I hope this time you will not allege that I am an agent of BJP and answer my questions,” Mishra said at a press conference.
 
 Mishra also launched a “Let’s Clean AAP” project and appealed to people who were part of the anti-corruption movement and “now feeling disappointed with AAP” to join his cause. He claimed that five AAP functionaries had hijacked the party. “We will not leave AAP, we will snatch it back. There is no place for the corrupt in AAP; they will have to leave the party,” he said, giving out a phone number for people to connect with him with a missed call.
 
 “I apologise to former party members Prashant Bhushan and Yogendra Yadav for using unparliamentary language against them,” he said, adding: “I didn’t realise that corruption was sprouting in AAP when others saw it.” Mishra said he would neither float a new party nor join Yadav’s Swaraj India. 
 
 Sanjay Singh likened Mishra to comedian   Sharma. “Comedy show of Kapil Mishra continues,” he said. In a tweet, Kejriwal’s media advisor Nagendra Sharma claimed that somebody was misguiding Mishra: “Horribly wrong script being handed over to Mishra. The poor fellow does not know what he is speaking. Who is misguiding him?” In another tweet, he stated: “The probe into high-security number plates scam was ordered by AAP. Then LG reversed the decision (sic).”
 
 Reacting to the allegations, Sheetal Singh said: “I purchased tickets for 32 people, including Sanjay Singh and Ashutosh, to go to Russia to attend my nephew’s wedding.” Singh said he, with two other partners, started a company ‘Utsav Safety System’ (one of the companies that Mishra alleged was linked with the numberplate scam) in 2000, but severed all links with it in 2004. “Mishra’s allegations are completely baseless. I left the company much before the scam,” he told a TV channel. 
 
 Singh allegedly left the company because he perceived threat to his life by a business rival.
 
 On behalf of Rosmerta, advocate Suren Uppal told TOI: “Sheetal Singh has never been associated with Rosmerta. The case related to the so-called scam was settled in the Supreme Court in July 2016 with the court finding no wrongdoing on part of the company.”
 
 
