NAGPUR: Chief minister Devendra   told TOI on Friday that the   and Shiv   were engaged in a close contest in the BMC   but there was a distinct possibility of the BJP getting 10   more than   Thackeray’s party. He also said that he was confident of winning six out of a total of 10 civic corporations in the state going to the polls on February 21.

 “Mumbai can be very close. But we are not yielding to the Shiv Sena. Going by public response and the crowds at our campaign meetings, it will be no surprise if we win ten seats more than the Sena in the city,” he said.
 
 Amid hectic campaigning, Fadnavis said the BJP would “comfortably win” six civic bodies: Pune, Ulhasnagar, Solapur, Nagpur, Akola and Amravati. Apart from Mumbai, he said, there would be a tough fight in Nashik and Pimpri-Chinchwad. However, Fadnavis admitted that the BJP had no chance in the Sena stronghold of Thane.
 
 On the crucial Mumbai elections, Fadnavis said: “In any case we will make significant gains in the city. We have nothing to lose, even if we double our current tally to 70, it will be a big boost. Our assessment is that each of us (BJP and Sena) can win around 80 seats and the other parties, including Congress, NCP and others, will share the remaining 50-55 seats.” 
 
 He said that the state government would continue to be stable after the poll results were out on February 23 even though the Sena had said that the Fadnavis regime was on notice. “My government will survive even if the Sena withdraws,” he said, without elaborating on how he would cobble up the numbers. “Getting the support of some 25 MLAs to keep the government afloat is no big deal. But I have my doubts on the Sena pulling out,” he said.
 
 Fadnavis is also certain that the Congress and the NCP would try to avoid mid-term polls as the two parties were in no position to face the electorate because of their lack of popularity. “A party in power in the state as well as the Centre has nothing to worry. We need only a few more MLAs (around 20) for a functioning majority of 145 if the Sena pulls out,” he stressed.
 
 Asked if the anticipated support of the NCP was a reason for the slow progress in the probe into the irrigation scam, Fadnavis denied it strongly. “The irrigation probe is going on at good speed. The findings are voluminous, and it is bound to take time to press charges in all the cases,” he said, adding that nobody who was found guilty would be spared.
 
 Asked what had really led to the snapping of ties with the two-decades-old ally, Fadnavis said the Sena wanted the BJP to keep off the BMC. “I did not agree. Seat-sharing was no issue as I was ready to offer them the mayor’s post even if they won fewer seats. But I was particular that the BJP would have a say in the   agenda if we fought as allies,” he said. 
 
 
