BHOPAL: Banking transactions worth about Rs 5.6 lakh crore were affected in the state after thousands of bank employees across the state went on strike on Tuesday. The nationwide bank strike call was given by   (UFBU).

 The strike put to inconvenience a large number of bank customers as day-to-day   were hampered because of the strike.
 
 “Despite digitization and net banking, a large number of customers, especially traders still depend on manual  ,” a bank manager sitting with handful of junior officers said.
 
 Savitri Bai, an elderly women, who had reached an SBI branch in the Old city said, “I was returned by the bank staff who said there is a strike.”
 
 Locks of several banks could not be opened in the morning. Where ever the banks were opened, the branches wore a deserted look. Only handful officers were seen while almost all employees were missing.
 
 More than 5,000 bank employees proceeded on strike on Tuesday in Bhopal. Across the state about 40,000 bank employees were on strike affecting a business of about Rs 5.6 lakh crore. In Bhopal alone 1.20 lakh crore bank transaction were affected, claimed   general secretary of Madhya Pradesh Bank employees association and coordinator of UFBU in the state.
 
 He said that banking operations were affected at all the 468 branches in Bhopal and more than 7,000 bank branches across the state.
 
 Employees protested “anti-people anti-labour bank reforms and inadequate compensation for long duration over work during  ,” he said. 
 
 In the morning, the bank employees assembled at Hoshangabad road around 10.30 am. Slogan shouting employees took out a rally around the press complex which was later converted in a meeting addressed by the employees ‘leaders.
 
 The unions in the bank industry have been fighting for more than 2 decades, they told the gathering, against the “reform measures”. 
 
 In the name of these reforms, they said, by the successive governments to shift the control of public sector entities to the private and foreign investors, said Sanjeev Mishra convener MP unit of UFBU.
 
