HYDERABAD: Toning down his aggressive criticism of the Telangana government that drew sharp reactions from chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, BJP national president   on Wednesday said his three-day visit to the state was not aimed at scaring or defeating anybody but to expand his party's base. 

 Shah said this while addressing booth-level party workers' meeting in Hyderabad during the day. He consciously confined his speech to the schemes being implemented by the Modi government and central grants given to Telangana in the past three years.
 
 "My tour has raised the blood pressure of some political parties, but I want to clarify that the only purpose of my visit is to spread the ideology of party ideologue Deendayal Upadhayay and highlight the achievements of the Modi government in the past three years," the BJP chief said.
 
 While listing out 106 schemes that were introduced by the NDA government, Shah reiterated that the Centre had sanctioned various programmes and works worth 1 lakh crore to the Telangana government. He said that the funds allocation to the state was considerably increased in the 14th  . 
 
 "The Centre had pumped funds into Telangana despite the BJP not winning many seats in the previous elections. This is because Modi wants Sabka Saath-Sabka Vikas," he said, adding that after Modi became prime minister, his party won elections in states such as Haryana, Jharkhand,  , Uttarakhand, UP, Goa and Manipur.
 
 Speaking after Amit Shah, Union Minister M   lambasted both the Congress and the Majlis Ittehadul Muslimeen (MIM) for the backwardness of the Old City. 
 
 He said the MIM had been using Mulsims as vote banks while party MP Asaduddin Owaisi supported anti-national elements. All these years, the Congress played divisive politics in the name of caste, creed and religion, he added.
 
 BJP state president K Laxman exuded confidence that the party would wrest the Hyderabad   seat from the MIM. 
 
 About half a dozen leaders from the TDP and Lok Satta joined the BJP on Wednesday in the presence of Shah. 
 
