SHIMLA: It’s been three years and the issue of boundary dispute between   and Jammu & Kashmir at Sarchu and Shinkula is still unresolved. Further, to resolve the matter, demarcation was proposed but same could not be done as required money has not been deposited by two states with the Survey of India. Lahaul-Spiti MLA of Congress, Ravi Thakur has accused his own government of not pursuing the matter seriously despite directions from the   for Scheduled Tribes.

 Boundary dispute between Himachal Pradesh and J&K at Sarchu has deepened as both sides are claiming that their boundary is deeper inside each other’s territory. While Lahaul-Spiti is claiming its boundary is 14-18kms inside J&K, the latter is claiming its area to be 7kms inside Himachal Pradesh.
 
 Sarchu is an important tourist destination of Himachal Pradesh where during peak summer season people from Lahaul-Spiti and Kullu-Manali set up their tents for tourism purpose. Sarchu remains open for vehicular traffic till September-October tourists on their way to Leh stop.
 
 Ravi Thakur said that last year in August a team of officials from Survey of India had visited Sarchu and Shinkula during which deputy commissioner of Lahaul-Spiti, deputy commissioner of Leh and other officials were also present. He said at that Survey of India officials had informed about the exact boundary and had asked for the demarcation.
 
 “At that time it was informed that J&K has entered 14kms inside Himachal’s territory in Lahaul-Spiti district. Survey of India had written a letter asking to Himachal Pradesh and J&K governments to deposit the money to conduct demarcation of disputed sites but still no money has been deposited,” he said.
 
 Thakur said that as state government was not serious in resolving the matter, he had asked a question in the   recently whether it is a subject of constituency, district or of the State?
 
 He said for last three years he is pursuing the matter with the state government, revenue and home department, individually but still no step has been taken. He said that National Commission for Scheduled Tribes (NCST) had also intervened in the dispute.
 
 He said after convening a meeting by NCST with the deputy commissioners of Lahual-Spiti, Kargil and Leh, Himachal Pradesh secretary (Home), inspector general of police, Mandi, joint secretary (Home), government of India and officials of Survey of India it was decided that a survey of the spot will be conducted in person.
 
 “Why, after visiting the spot by deputy commissioner and superintendent of police, Lahual-Spiti, deputy commissioners of Leh and Kargil and officials of Survey of India no step has been taken and money has not been deposited to conduct the demarcation,” he said.
 
 Himachal Pradesh revenue Minister  , while replying to the question of Ravi Thakur, had informed the state assembly on Friday this is a very important issue. He said no request for the payment of any amount for the joint demarcation has been received by the state government from the Surveyor General of India in the matter. He said that government is concerned about the boundary dispute and Himachal Pradesh government will take all effective steps that our territory will not be encroached by the other state.
 
