Chandigarh: On Tuesday, the BCCI announced Ravi Shastri as the head coach of the national side until the 2019 World Cup along with Zaheer Khan named as bowling consultant for the same tenure, while Rahul Dravid will be India's batting consultant for overseas Test series. The appointments bring to an end a period of uncertainty over the India coaching job that began at the end of May, when Kohli told BCCI officials that some players were uncomfortable with Kumble’s approach for the team.  Following captain Kohli’s feedback, the BCCI advertised for the position. On Wednesday, former Indian cricketer Chetan Sharma lauded the efforts of BCCI's Cricket Advisory Committee (CAC), comprising Sourav Ganguly, Sachin Tendulkar and VVS Laxman for their selection. “It’s great that the committee has taken this decision. Ravi Shastri is the right choice for the team. The players in the dressing room respect him and he will take Indian cricket to new heights. The World Cup is near and we don’t want any kind of instability that can affect players’ performance,” Sharma said here. The vacancy surfaced after Anil Kumble resigned after the Champions Trophy held recently, saying that his relation with Indian captain Virat Kohli had become unstable. Shastri was one of five candidates the CAC interviewed for the role, along with Virender Sehwag, Tom Moody, Richard Pybus and Lalchand Rajput.  Shastri was the director of the Indian team between 2014 and 2016, during which time he led the Men in Blue to the semi-finals of the World Cup and 2015 World T20. He had also applied for the job in 2016 but Kumble was chosen over him. Zaheer, a former India fast bowler, has no formal coaching experience but he has been part of the Delhi Daredevils think tank in recent IPL seasons.  He was offered the role of bowling consultant last year by the BCCI, but both parties could not come to an agreement over remuneration. “Zak will be a great addition to the team as a bowling consultant. He has so much experience and has so much to offer to the young spearheads. The pacers will flourish under his influence,” Sharma further added. Rahul Dravid recently gave up his position as Delhi Daredevils mentor, after accepting a two-year contract to coach the India A and U-19 team.  “We all know what great player he is and what he has done with the young colts. The young players will have so much to learn from Dravid.” With a bucket full of experience, he is a great addition to the team.” Shastri's first assignment as head coach is the Test series in Sri Lanka, which begins on July 26.