NAGPUR: The implementation of transfer orders of IPS officers chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s own city has been in such a disarray that the crucial post of joint commissioner of police (Jt CP), law and order, has remained vacant even when civic elections are less than three weeks away. 

 Shivaji Bodkhe, inspector general of police (IGP), state Anti-Naxal Operations (ANO) cell, was posted as Jt CP in city replacing   who was transferred out of city in around eight months’ in the saddle. After being transferred to Mumbai in state intelligence department through January 9 order, Rastogi left the charge on January 13 though his replacement Bodkhe was still not able to move out of ANO. Bodkhe, an IPS officer of 1998 batch, was ‘stuck’ in ANO as his replacement Sharad Shelar fell ‘sick’.
 
 State DGP Satish Mathur, when questioned about the vacancy in the post of Jt CP that oversees law and order with civic election approaching, asserted on Friday it would soon be addressed. Asked about Shelar’s inability to join, Mathur remained non-committal. 
 
 TOI learnt that Bodkhe may be asked to take charge as Jt CP before election campaigns pick up. Bodkhe, like his predecessor  , might continue to hold charge of ANO. 
 
  On Friday, Bodkhe handed over that charge to his batchmate   whose original posting is as IGP state reserve police force (SRPF). 
 
 Shelar, posted as Addl CP in Thane city, was transferred to ANO on promotion but he started taking medical treatment. It is learnt Shelar’s prolonged leave led to a logjam that reflected in the vacancy in Jt CP post in a city known for its sensitivity and volatility in addition to fast approaching civic elections.
 
 After Addl CP Pratap Singh Patankar was transferred as IG Nagpur range, that post too was not filled. DCP, special branch,  , apart from managing various responsibilities including keeping tab on political developments during the elections, has to shoulder the crucial responsibility of sensitive Zone IV too. 
 
 The tension around ticket distribution has been aggravated by the sour mood of those ones refused. On the last day of filing nominations, there had been already couple of attacks on the leaders and their vehicles that would certainly leave the cops concerned especially at a time when the city’s crime graph is not encouraging.
 
 
