Ahmedabad: It was tough for   to crack the ISIS module active in Rajkot and Bhavnagar. But they found it was tougher for them to escort the Ramodiya brothers in a vehicle long past its prime. On Saturday afternoon, when the two ISIS suspects were being brought back to Ahmedabad after production in court, the mini van carrying them malfunctioned. ATS officials had to get down on road and push the vehicle for a stretch to get it started.

  Incidentally, the van which broke down is being used by Gujarat ATS for long and needs frequent maintenance trips to the MT department to keep running. “For a moment we felt jittery as the vehicle suddenly stopped with two ISIS suspects, Waseem and   in it. Anything could have happened,” said an ATS official.
 
 Senior police sources said the Gujarat ATS, which was formed in 1993, has about 35 to 40 vehicles, which is much less than ATSs of other states. “As compared to the CIC ( ) of AP we are about 50 to 60 vehicles short though the risk element in Gujarat is no less as it is one of the top states on the hit list of terror outfits” said a senior police official.
 
 According to figures, it is not just the number of vehicles on which Gujarat ATS is trailing behind other terror-hit states. “In terms of sanctioned strength, Gujarat ATS has the lowest number of police officials and personnel – just 62. Andhra Pradesh has 817, Maharashtra 740, Madhya Pradesh 188 and Rajasthan 152,” said a police official.
 
 “The fact is that the sanctioned strength of 62 of Gujarat ATS is that of its formation time in 1993. There have been several reviews with no results. Surprisingly, ATS doesn’t even have staff even to man this puny sanctioned strength, and currently has only 44 officials and personnel,” said a top police official.
 
 While other states have additional risk allowances paid to their ATS officials and personnel, Gujarat ATS doesn’t get any. “Again AP tops the list with 70% additional risk allowance with MP and Rajasthan getting 60% and Maharashtra and Orissa 50%,” a senior police official said.
 
 
