AMRITSAR: The Amritsar parliamentary constituency had witnessed one of the biggest fights in the 2014 parliamentary elections in the country with two big leaders — Arun Jaitley of BJP and Captain   of the Congress — facing each other. However, with barely two weeks to go, the byelection for the same Lok Sabha seat, has clearly been overshadowed by the state assembly elections.

 This is also apparent in the choice of candidates fielded by the top parties. While the Congress has fielded its Amritsar (rural) unit president Gurjit Singh Aujla, BJP has nominated  , who had lost the 2007 assembly elections from here. Aam Aadmi Party has put up former   leader Upkar Singh Sandhu who recently changed parties.
 
 In 2014, apart from Amarinder and Jaitley in the fray, AAP too had fielded noted eye surgeon Dr Daljit Singh, who joined the Congress last week. Amarinder had defeated Jaitley with a margin of over one lakh votes but resigned recently following the adverse ruling by the apex court in the matter of Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal.
 
 In the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, the fight was seen as a Sikh versus non-Sikh contest, which had polarized the voters. This time all the major political parties have fielded Sikh candidates.
 
 All the critical issues like drugs, unemployment, corruption and development are being taken up by the assembly candidates, leaving the Lok Sabha candidates without anything different to offer. They are largely dependent on the support of MLAs of the nine assembly segments falling under Amritsar Lok Sabha seat.
 
 “There are several central government projects, which only an MP can bring to the state, so it’s not like we have nothing to offer to the people of the constituency. An MP can get projects which can bring prosperity in the region,” BJP’s Lok Sabha candidate Chhina told TOI on Thursday.
 
 Similarly, AAP candidate Upkar Sandhu said that an MP had much bigger role to play in his constituency than anyone else. He also challenged the notion that parties were not showing seriousness in the Amritsar Lok Sabha bypoll. “Our party is putting all out effort for the Lok Sabha constituency and our volunteers are working day and night in all the nine assembly constituencies,” he said.
 
