The Mahankali   Jathara, which kicked off at   a fortnight ago, wound its way to the   at Secunderabad’s   yesterday, marking the second Ashadam. Before the break of dawn, devotees had starting flocking to the venue, which was enveloped in a thick blanket of security, to get a darshan of the Mother Goddess. Decked in traditional finery and jewellery, the women folk carrying the bonam atop their heads were a sight to behold. Though the devotees had to spend hours in the queue, many of them with children and aged parents in tow, there was not even a murmur of complaint, especially from those who had come to offer bonam.

 
 
 
 
 “We’ve been offering bonam to the Goddess for the past 18 years. At times, the bonam is an expression of gratitude for a wish that has been fulfilled, but even when there is no vow to put across, we do it for the sake of tradition,” said Saritha, a Hyderabad-based homemaker. What did she wish for this year? “I can’t tell you that,” she said with a laugh before adding, “We are supposed to keep it a secret, otherwise it will not come true.” Echoing a similar s e n t i m e n t was Mahalakshmi from Kavadiguda: “I have been offering bonam for the last 30 years.We consider it a holy tradition, something to pass on to future generations. It’s not just about asking the Goddess for this thing or that; it’s our way of thanking her for protecting us.”
 
 
 Adding colour to the vibrant event was a group of wandering performers, who go by the name of Kala Veedhulu and dress up as various Gods and Goddesses to entertain the devotees. Dancing with gay abandon to the sound of drums and cymbals, they have a hypnotic effect on the gathering, so much so that some of the onlookers go into a trance. Mari Swamy,who was dressed as Potharaju this year, said, “We perform everywhere across the State and on all religious festivals. This is a family tradition and a very sacred one at that. Looking at us, people are reminded of the significance of a particular character we chose to enact on the day.” Then there are ‘Shiva Shaktis’, the chosen ones who are possessed by the Goddess and signify the power that makes other devotees bow with devotion. Apparently, they come out of the trance only after the bonam offering is made.
 The number of devotees thronging the temple has seen a sharp hike over the years. “The new (Telangana) government has been publicising the festivals of the region and this, I think, is the reason for a rise in visitors,”
 said Naresh, a coconut vendor. The two-day festival at the Mahankali temple culminates today.
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
