JAIPUR: The over enthusiastic   ( ) officials are committing serious mistakes during the collection of   (UD) tax drive due to which   are facing  . 

 Residents of plot number 153 in Bapu Nagar colony had to face embarrassment on Wednesday, the after JMC’s revenue team reached at the house in Moti Doongri zone and started beating drums outside to recover the urban development (UD) tax. However, it was learnt that the house owner had already deposited the UD tax. 
 
 The officials realised the mistake and returned empty-handed after owner showed payment receipt. But it brought embarrassment for the owner as many people in the neighbourhood gathered to witness the action against the defaulter. 
 
 “Due to lack of coordination among the JMC officials, the common man has to face embarrassment. The revenue wing has not received the records of many defaulters who have deposited the dues,” said a JMC official source. 
 
 This is not the first time that the JMC administration has taken action against the wrong person. Two days ago, the JMC sealed the marriage garden which was later reopened. While, zonal commissioner claimed the UD tax was deposited by the garden owner, the revenue wing official said that the drive was carried out as it was unregistered. 
 
 Meanwhile, continuing its drive against UD tax defaulters in Moti Doongri zone, the JMC recovered Rs 13.89 lakh after attaching five properties. 
 
 JMC administration is making every possible effort to earn revenue as it proposed a budget of Rs 1,715.90 crore for Jaipur. However, according to the sources, the administration so far has able to recover nearly Rs 35 crore. 
 
 “ In the financial year 2016 - 2017, the JMC recovered Rs 65 crore till March 31. Seeing the progress, it appears will not be able to reach last year collection,” added source. 
 
 In the Budget, JMC proposed to spend Rs 488 crore to carry out development works in the city. Maximum amount of Rs 110 crore has been allocated towards construction of roads in municipal periphery. 
 
 “Development work was not carried out as per the proposal in previous year due to shortage of funds. We are targeting to recover Rs 100 crore from defaulters this month,” said a JMC official.
 
 
