NEW DELHI: After a lower court refused to grant permission to a Chandigarh based 10-year old rape survivor to abort her 26-week fetus, the   on Monday came to her rescue and decided to examine whether she could be allowed to terminate her unwanted pregnancy arising out of rape.

 
 
 A bench of Chief Justice   and justice D Y Chandrachud directed medical examination of the girl and her fetus at PGI, Chandigarh, by a medical board on July 26. It directed Secretary of Legal Services Authority of the Union Territory to make all arrangements to bring the child to the hospital and submit the report in a sealed envelop before it on July 28 when it would a call on whether she could be allowed to undergo abortion.
 
 “Before the matter is taken up for hearing on July 28, the Member Secretary, after having followed the procedure and obtained due permission of at least one of the parents of the child, shall have the child examined at the PGI, Chandigarh, from a Board of Doctors on July 26, so as to affirm one way or the other, whether the health of the girl child concerned, who is stated to be of the age of 10 years, and also that of the fetus, would be adversely affected, if the pregnancy is continued for the full term,” the bench said.
 
 The Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971, permits abortion till the fetus is 20 weeks old. Three have been cases where rape victims approached the court to abort their unwanted pregnancies arising out of rape and the apex court has allowed their plea to terminate fetus beyond legally permissible period. Many rape victims and women, who discover serious problem with their pregnancy after crossing 20 weeks period, have been moving the apex court seeking permission to undergo abortion.
 
 Although the Centre had initiated the process to amend Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act, 1971 way back in 2014 but it is still waiting for   approval before it could be introduced in  . The proposed bill intends to extend the permissible period for abortion from 20 weeks to 24 weeks if the pregnancy involves a substantial risk to the mother or the child. The amendment also allows to do away with the time limit for abortion in case substantial foetal abnormalities.
 
 The court had earlier observed that the present law must be stretched to make it meaningful by allowing abortion beyond 20-weeks and SC in almost a dozen of cases allowed medical termination at advance stage beyond the legally permissible benchmark.
 
 The apex court had in April last year allowed a 14-year-old rape survivor to abort her 24- weeks fetus. Allowing her to undergo abortion, the court had observed that the life of the girl, a class X student in Ahmedabad, would be ruined and she would have to live her rest of the life with the social stigma associated with the child.
 
 The court, however, could not help a 35 year-old destitute HIV positive woman from Patna to abort her 26-week pregnancy, arising from a sexual assault, as   doctors had held that her life might be endanger if abortion was done at such advance stage. Despite the apex court’s various ruling that welfare of a expecting mother is paramount, trials courts and High Courts have repeatedly turned down abortion plea of rape victims and women, having abnormal fetus, citing the present law.
 
 The apex court on July 3 allowed the abortion plea of Kolkata-based 26-week pregnant lady on the basis of the medical report which said that the child, even if born alive, might not survive for a long time as the baby would have to go through multiple surgeries due to congenital disorder.
 
 SC on March 27 turned down a plea of a woman to abort her 27-week-old fetus having severe physical abnormalities on the ground that the medical report came to the conclusion that the baby might be “born alive”.
 
 On February 7, SC allowed a 22 year old pregnant woman who was facing danger to her life due to pregnancy and allowed her to abort her 23 week fetus.
 
 The court had on January 16 allowed a 24-week pregnant woman from Mumbai to undergo abortion due to life-threatening abnormalities in fetus
 
 The girl had been raped several times, allegedly by her maternal uncle. Her father is a government employee and mother a domestic help. The case has left many medical experts dumbfounded as they have rarely come across a girl getting pregnant at such a tender age. Doctors insist the pelvic bones are not fully developed in girls at this age and, therefore, tolerating a full-term pregnancy is very risky. While normal delivery is ruled out, even a Caesarean section at that age is dangerous.
 
 
