KOCHI: Corporation authorities have decided to collect water samples from the plant at Edappally and send it to government agencies to check whether the bottled drinking water supplied from there is contaminated or not. It was following TOI article that presence of coliform was reported during the test conducted by a Kochi native on the sample collected from the Edappally unit of Kochi Water. 

 Though both mayor   and health standing committee chairperson V K Minimol shared the same view that the water sample should be tested, they differed on who will conduct the test. According to the mayor, it is up to the food safety department which is to conduct the test. But Minimol said that this would lead to delay and so, the samples can be sent to regional analytical lab at Kakkanad. Some of the opposition members said the delay would lead to manipulations by those operating the plant. "We can collect the samples in the presence of health inspectors of the corporation, councillor from the division and health standing committee chairperson," Minimol said.
 
 Following the report that appeared on TOI, the corporation's health department collected samples of water from Kochi water units at Amaravathy and Edappally. "I had given instruction to health inspectors in Kochi and Edappally. The health officials collected samples from Edappally plant. As the newspaper report was regarding the contamination at Edappally unit only, I didn't follow up on the water samples collected from Fort Kochi," she said. "The samples should be sent for test within 30 minutes of collection. So, we can test the samples on Tuesday," she said." As of now, the private firm running the plant is conducting the test at a private lab. But the tests should be done at a government lab," Minimol said. At the same time, mayor said that the tests can be done at private lab also provided it is accredited one.
 
 Some of the members brought the TOI article which also highlighted the issue of bank sending notice to Kudumbashree members who are into marketing of Kochi water from Edappally unit to the her attention.The mayor said that the Kudumbashree members who failed to run the marketing properly should be avoided and new team should be entrusted with the duty. But, many of the ruling front members objected to it asking that who would repay the liability to the banks once the current team is scrapped.
 
 According to councillors   and  , the health department official who collected samples from Fort Kochi plant didn't seal the bottle in which the sample was collected and entrusted with the duty of taking the samples with a cleaning staff of the civic body. It is a clear case of negligence on the part of the official. 
 
 So, action should be taken against the official. Lal said the water supplied from the plant at Fort Kochi is pure. It is also reported that around 1,000 bottles water had been missing from Edappally unit. But the corporation is yet to lodge a complaint with police.
 
