JAIPUR: The   (ED) has provisionally attached movable and immovable assets worth Rs 1.18 crore under the provisions of the Prevention of   Act, 2002 in connection with a land scam in Kolayat and Gajner towns of   district, an official said on Thursday.

 The accused include a private person, Jai Prakash Bagarwa, and Rajasthan government officials, identified as Uma Charan Sharma, the then Patwari Fakir Mohammad and the then  , and Mahaveer Sawami, the then Patwari.
 
 “The officials fraudulently allotted government land on the basis of forged allotment letters in the name of non-existent persons to some private persons,“ an ED officer said on the condition of anonymity.
 
 The allotted land was meant for the displaced persons of Mahajan Firing Range in Bikaner.
 
 In 1989, the government had acquired 1422 bighas of land of nearly 34 villages and promised the displaced people to provide land in other areas on subsided rates. In the case, 18 FIRs were registered by the Gajner and Kolayat, Bikaner police during August and September, 2014 and chargesheets in the matter was filed by the police in August, 2015 against the above mentioned accused. On the basis of the FIRs and chargesheets, an investigation was condicted by the Enforcement Directorate in September, 2015.
 
 During 2009-11 it was found that the people who grabbed the land managed to sell 1,372 bighas to private persons and companies including   (SLH) -a firm connected to Congress president Sonia Gandhi's son-in-law Robert Vadra. However, Vadra's company so far has maintained that it was the third or the fourth party to purchase a portion of the land.In the same case, the ED too had issued summons to the Vadra's company.
 
 The ED took up the case in September 2015. It found that two private persons -Ranjit Singh and Jai Prakash -had stolen some stamped blank allotment letters from Bikaner Colonisation Department. “The stolen material was used for preparing forged allotment letters in the name of the allegedly displaced persons of the Mahajan Field Firing Range,“ said an officer on the condition of anonymity.
 
