CHENNAI: Cyclone   has dealt a severe blow to the country's universal vaccination programme, setting back the effort to resume manufacture of anti-tuberculosis vaccine for children at citybased BCG Vaccine Laboratory by at least five months. The Union health ministry will now have to continue buying these vaccines from private firms at a higher cost.

 On Thursday , officials at the laboratory confirmed that mass production of more than 500 doses, scheduled to begin in January, won't commence till May.
 
 In October last year, eight years after it was shut for poor manufacturing practices, the laboratory announced it hoped to resume vaccine manufacture by January 2017. The three days of power cuts they endured post Vardah, and lack of ade quate diesel to run the generators, led to temperature variations that affected the quality of the vaccine, said director H G Brahmne. The laboratory had just 1,200 litres of diesel against the 90 litres per hour required to maintain the temperature.“We make the harvest when the culture is floating, but despite best efforts, the culture sank in the medium because we were not able to keep the vaccine in 37 degree Celsius round the clock,“ he said.
 
 In October 2016, eight years after it was shut for poor manufacturing practices, the laboratory said it hoped to resume vaccine manufacture by January 2017. In November, the first official `trial' batch was har vested and subsequent harvests were of high quality .Scientists decided to start filling vaccines into vials on a trial basis in December.When power was restored after Vardah, the feeding pipe at the refill station had a leak.“We are fixing that as well. We would have sent batches for quality tests and applied for a commercial licence to start production if nothing had gone wrong,“ said Brahmne.
 
 In February 2008, the BCG Vaccine Laboratory, Central Research Institute, Kasauli, and Pasteur Institute of India, Coonoor were closed for not conforming to WHO's good manufacturing practices (GMP) protocol. In 2010, the suspension of licences was revoked on the condition that the laboratories put in place WHO-approved GMP. The Chennai lab tried to manufacture vaccines from the old building but failed the quali ty test. In 2013, it began construction of a new manufacturing unit with   protocol. In early 2016, after Central Drugs Standard Control Organization certification, trial vaccine production began on September 12.
 
 In November, it tested the trial vaccine internally. It planned to send the trial batches to the Central Drugs Laboratory in Kasauli for standard quality certification before applying to the Drugs Controller General of India for commercial production licence. In December, the Union health ministry website had notices seeking comments from stakeholders on an amendment of recruitment rules for administrative officer and engineers. A senior official said the government would begin recruiting permanent staff. “We will need manpower to manage the lab and maintain quality.“
 
