NEW DELHI: The Delhi government has decided to set up a committee to determine how to financially manage the three municipal corporations in Delhi and recommend ways to bolster their revenues. Delhi urban development minister  , it is learnt, has approved the setting up of the  , which will be chaired by chief secretary MM Kutty. 

 With the furore over the strike by unremunerated sanitation workers in the East Delhi Municipal Corporation fresh in memory, the government wants to explore permanent solutions to the   crunch of the civic bodies. The committee will consist of members from the government’s finance and urban development departments, and will carry out a detailed study of the corporations’ operating framework after their trifurcation from the singular Municipal Corporation of Delhi in 2012. 
 
 It will not only examine how the three bodies can be made financially viable in terms of their available resources, but also assess measures to bolster their financial health. “The committee’s report will give Delhi government a perspective on the way forward because giving repeated loans can only be a temporary relief to tide over immediate crises,” explained a government official.
 
 When the strike was on in the east body, even lieutenant governor Anil Baijal had asked the chief secretary to coordinate with the urban development secretary and the three municipal commissioners to define a roadmap for improving performance. The LG wanted the state to work out a mechanism to determine how the financial condition of the corporations could be strengthened.
 
 According to sources, this committee’s role will not overlap with that of a fact-finding committee chaired by the director, local bodies, which will scrutinise financial irregularities in the corporations. Earlier this week, MLAs belonging to the ruling   had forced a resolution in the legislative assembly on setting up such a panel.
 
 The resolution stated: “This House takes serious note of the extremely poor financial management in the municipal corporations of Delhi, particularly in the East Delhi Municipal Corporation and the North Delhi Municipal Corporation…. This House notes that the MCDs have failed to pay the salaries of their employees despite having received enhanced funds from the government of Delhi and the residents of Delhi have a right to know how the MCDs are utilising these funds…directs the government of Delhi to take all possible steps to look into the finances of the MCDs in accordance with the provisions of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957.”
 
 The report of this panel is expected to be presented in the assembly in the budget session, likely to be held in the beginning of March.
 
 
