JAISALMER: Forty three years ago on May 18, 1974, India added its name in the list of   with successful conduction of its maiden nuke test in  , Jaisalmer. Visit by the then Prime Minister Mrs Indira Gandhi, laid roads of developments in Jaisalmer.

 The nuclear test was conducted in a dry well at   near Pokhran and the huge pit that came out after test still throws glimpses of the glorious past. Although, fencing has been set up by army within 500 metre radius of the area, but there is no signboard or memorial to tell about the victorious moment which helped India to achieve the nuclear feat. Even after 43 years, no government paid heed to the importance of the place and did not bother about its identification.
 
 Historian Nand Kishore Sharma said, “On this day (May 18, 1974) Jaisalmer got lucky when Indira Gandhi visited the historical Patwa ki Haveli and Dewan Natmahal’s Haveli and decided to bring it on world tourism map. She also directed the officials to conserve these Havelis.”
 
 “She reached Patwa ki Haveli in a jeep straight from airport and nobody had any knowledge of her arrival there. People recognised her as Mrs Gandhi when she stepped out of the jeep. The architecture of the Haveli impressed her and she decided to develop Golden City as a tourist spot,” said Sharma adding, Mrs Gandhi was accompanied by Dr HN Sharma, the then chairman of  .
 
 “On the other hand, many elderly villagers even today remember that there was sudden blast on May 18, 1974 that resulted in tremor and their houses developed cracks. The explosion was done of 12,000 TNT and there was huge cover of dust, which got settled down after some time,” said Sharma.
 
 Former MLA and Loharki village resident Gulab Singh said the first nuclear test was conducted inside a dry well in   village, 2kms away from Loharki. The well, which was 500 metre deep, got deeper after explosion.
 
 The ex-MLA said government has not paid importance to the place and nothing has been done for maintenance of this glorious place. Government should develop the place as tourist spot.
 
