BHOPAL: The ambassador of Brazil, Tovar da Silva Nunes, had a taste of why   is vanishing from the itinerary of foreign tourists. On September 9, it took the envoy five hours -by plane -to reach Khajuraho from Delhi.

 The absence of direct flights to the   heritage site from major Indian airports, including Delhi and Mumbai, has made this architectural marvel inaccessible to tourists for months on end. Ordinarily, a plane journey between Delhi and Khajuraho airports should not take more than an hour. But, the journey takes five hours instead because of multiple layovers.
 
 Khajuraho tourism association spokesman Anshu Awasthi confirmed there are no direct flight from Delhi or Mumbai to Khajuraho. Private carrier Jet Airaway operates a flight during the peak season (October to January) from Delhi to Khajuraho, but it has a layover at Varanasi.
 
 Silva, who flew to Khajuraho on Saturday, took the only available option -an   flight with two stopovers -Varanasi and Agra.The flight departed at 10.15am and took nearly five hours to reach Khajuraho. Flying back to Delhi proved a similar ordeal, and Silva could not make it back to the national capital in time for his Monday appointments.
 
 “The ambassador wanted to return to Delhi on Monday morning (September 11) but could not because there was no direct flight,“ said Rajesh Awasthi, a senior guide who took the ambassador around the temple town. He said Silva finally managed to board the 3.15pm flight from Kajuraho on Monday and reached the capital around 6.30pm.
 
 It's just as well that ambassador Silva did not attempt the adventure by road. It would have been a bone-rattling 700km ordeal from Delhi.
 
 Khajuraho is famous across the world for its sculptures. But the town seems to be losing its charm due to travelling woes. Footfall to the town was down by a steep 35% between 2012 and 2016, and this year's figures are likely to be worse, local sources said. In 2012, over one lakh foreigners visited the temple town, but the number plummeted to 65,236 in 2016 -a decline of almost 35%. Primary tourist operators in New Delhi and Jaipur no longer include Khajuraho on their itineraries since it makes the journey costly.
 
 Built between 950 AD and 1050 AD, the temples have long been a must-visit for western tourists but the government never laid emphasis on better connectivity -especially in terms of flights.
 
 “Backpackers, as a result, have almost vanished from Khajuraho,“ a tourism association official said.
 
