Ludhiana: Three months after the authorities started installing unique identity number (UID) plates outsides every house in the city, the civic officials have covered only 3,000 households so far.

 The civic officials blamed the residents for not showing response for the installation of UID number plates despite the fact that it is of great usage. However, the company which is handling this project has claimed since the MC did not provide them the data of entire city, they are facing tough time in covering all blocks.
 
 According to the survey conducted by the MC officials, there are more than 4 lakh properties falling in 37 blocks. The MC officials have been claiming that they did not get complete data from Punjab Remote Sensing Centre (PRSC) and this is the reason they could not provide the complete details of all properties to the company.
 
 The installation of UID number plates was kicked off from block 26 in Ward 49 on June 23.
 
 One of the representatives from the private company shared that when they go door-to-door for collection of Rs 110 (fee for the UID plates) people do not show any response. Earlier they were getting help from the councillors, but now even the councillors are busy with MC elections, so it will become all the more difficult. He revealed that MC officials did not support this project as they neither advertised the project and its importance among residents, nor they imposed it strictly.
 
 On the other hand, MC joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh said that they are busy with property tax collection but they are planning to organise special camps to attract residents to get these number plates for their properties. 
 
 Notably, the project has remained at a slow pace since the beginning of a survey for the properties in February 2014 and it was at that time they had announced the installation of UID number plates outside the properties. But, first the survey remained at tardy pace and then they took almost two years to finalise the contract with a private company for installation of the number plates.
 
 What is UID number?
 
 The UID number is an 18 digit number which comprises zone number, block number, road ID, property ID and property sub ID but on this number plate only 5 digits property number will be written and rest of the numbers are for officials records. UID number plates will give single identity to any property. Apart from this, MC has plans to connect property tax, water and sewerage and even TS- 1 with this UID number and people will get details about their tax amount and dues at just one click. 
 
 GST effect over number plates
 
 As per the company earlier they were paying 18% tax on the number plates but after the imposition of GST the tax is 28% and in a way their cost of one plate has increased up to Rs 32. The company has also requested the MC to allow them to increase the rate of plate so as to cover their loss.
 
 
