MADURAI: A  , a centralised system for monitoring all the works of the   for efficient delivering, set up at a cost of Rs 17.20 lakh was inaugurated by state minister   on Friday and a corporation park, which was renovated by the Madurai chapter of the  , was also inaugurated.

 This centralised system, which will be monitored 24x7 by the officials is expected to bring about efficiency in the system. Madurai Corporation commissioner   said that four video walls had been installed into which all the software of the corporation had been integrated. The trucks, which would supply water to the wards that have not got pipeline connections, will be monitored using the GPRS system.
 
 As Madurai is facing an acute water crisis, many private trucks have also been roped in to tackle the problem. The vehicles, fitted with GPRS systems would be monitored from the control room, right from the time water is loaded for distribution. The system will enable the diversion of some vehicles to the nearest locations if the water requirement there is more than their supply areas. The number of trips made by the water tankers, their distribution method, and any breakdown of the vehicle can be monitored through the system. The pipelines’ system including the input/output to the treatment plant would be monitored through the system.
 
 Streetlights are another facility which can be managed effectively through this control unit as the streets and their lights have been mapped, and each street light has been fitted with a sim card which will send a signal to the control room when it is working. The staff at the control room can rectify any faulty light from this tracking mechanism.
 
 Grievances with regard to the Madurai Corporation are received through various ways, like social media, corporation website, representations to the commissioner, petitions received through the district collector’s office or through email. All these grievances received would be segregated according to the concerned department and action taken report would be given to the petitioner also.
 
 Meanwhile, the Bharathiar park of the Madurai Corporation on Alagarkoil Road, which was renovated at a cost of Rs 28.70 lakh with the help of the Lakshmi Vilas Bank, Madurai chapter of the Soroptimist International was also inaugurated on Saturday.
 
 The park, which has been designed by architects Shamini Vignesh, has been paved with paver blocks, and is spread over an area of 10,000 sqft. A statue of poet Bharathiar with a book in his hand has been installed in the park. Though there are no seating arrangements, facilities have be made for both walking and sitting. The park has got a brightly coloured makeover with a rainwater harvesting system in place. The architects said that there is also a plan to paint poems by the poet and related pictures on the walls of the park. 
 
 Collector K Veera Raghava Rao, other officials and members of Soroptimist international were present.
 
