NEW DELHI: On the first day of college at   on Thursday, students pulled out all stops to become a part of the campus  . But looking good also meant being comfortable, and that seemed to have mattered the most to freshers starting their year on a pretty note. 

 Though happy to be out of school uniform, many are also finding this daily rigour of choosing a “fashionable” outfit slightly daunting. Required to hunt for new clothes on a regular basis, they don’t hate school uniform that much anymore.
 
 Anamya Anurag, who has got admitted to Miranda House with philosophy, is not sure if she could keep up with the challenge of picking new clothes every morning. “It was much easier with the uniform because you know what everyone will wear and what you have to wear. So there’s no hassle in the morning. Now with so many options available, it is going to be tough picking out something every day,” said Anurag. “In fact, knowing how lazy I am, I may start turning up in pyjamas and a T-shirt in a week or two,” she jested.
 
 The day being humid despite heavy rain in the morning, comfort was the primary goal of most freshers. Most girls wore flowing cotton palazzos or long skirts, and even the old and modest kurta-pyjama. 
 
 But starting college means a new wardrobe, and many have already made a list of things they want to buy next. “I am going to be shopping for clothes from Friday. I wouldn’t want to not look nice, especially now when you are stared at for what you wear,” said Rupali Gujral, another first-year student.
 
 Many freshers had gone for the first day specifically. “This is when we give the first impression,” said   Shehrawat of Gurgaon. She had scoured through several shops before deciding on what to wear. However, this   student of Kamla Nehru College also said, “I only chose what is comfortable in this weather.”
 
 There were many who went out of their way to shop for their first day at DU. Rajeshvi Pawar, a student of Jesus & Mary College, said, “I went out shopping at various places not just for my first day but for the first week of college. My intention is to study, look good and enjoy my years in DU,” she said.
 
 While Delhites were sure of where to buy and what clothes to wear, several students like Bhavya, who has come from Ambala, said, “I was concerned about what to wear as I have heard a lot about how Delhi people dress up and how their style is. Before coming here, I made sure to search for the best of clothes in my hometown,” she said.
 
 
