NEW DELHI: Laying the tracks on the twin tunnels of Delhi Metro’s new line in   was a challenge. Not only was there the existing Yellow Line tunnel, but above it lay the busy Outer Ring Road, Panchsheel flyover and the residential colony of Sarvapriya Vihar, all making construction work a daunting task.

 "The existing   at Hauz Khas is at a depth of 17 metres. To construct a new station, we could not go beneath the existing station whose foundation lies at 32 metres. The foundation of the Panchsheel flyover on Outer Ring Road also had to be considered," explained Anuj Dayal, spokesperson of   Rail Corporation.
 
 A new station beneath the current one would have to go down as deep as 42 metres, a difficult proposition. To get around this, an adjacent location was identified at a depth of 29 metres. This 265-metre stretch is located underneath Laxman Public School and ends at the median of the Outer Ring Road.
 
 The platform or rail level lies at a deeper level, and where it crosses the existing twin tunnels of the Yellow Line (HUDA City Centre-Jahangirpuri), it is as deep as 31m. "This is the part that required the most delicate handling in the construction process," said Dayal. "Special measures, including making a ‘D-Wall’, had to be taken to prevent any movement of the existing tunnel."
 
 The tunnel-boring machine employed could dig only 4-5 metres each day. "It took us almost 12 days to complete the sensitive 50-metre zone," said the Delhi   official. Incredibly, the clearance between the tunnels of the two corridors is only 4.5 metres.
 
 To bring down construction noise levels in order not to affect Sarvapriya Vihar, sound barriers were installed at Hauz Khas. Puff sheets, or sound-absorbing material, were installed on the inner side of the barricades at the site. These reduced noise by about 15%.
 
 A subway, 40 metres long, will connect the Yellow Line to the new Magenta Line (Janakpuri West to Botanical Garden), and turn the new Hauz Khas station into an interchange one. This will bring down journey times drastically for those travelling from Gurgaon to Noida. If at present it takes an hour and a half to reach Botanical Garden in Noida from HUDA City Centre in Gurugram, with Rajiv Chowk station as the interchange, the new line will chop the commute time down to around 50 minutes.
 
 The Metro projects the daily footfall at the interchange station at 1,69,414, four times the current estimate of 40,000. The distance between the platforms of the two lines will be around 220m, according to Dayal.
 
 
