PUNE: The   have urged   to go online for seeking permission to construct pandals during this year’s   beginning August 25. 

 This is for the first time that police have introduced the system and conveyed the decision to the   during a meeting held at its headquarters in Shivajinagar on July 21. 
 
 Police will co-ordinate with the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad civic bodies, Cantonment boards of Pune and Khadki and the fire brigade before granting permissions to the mandals. 
 
 “We will start accepting applications online from August 1. The last date for applying is August 20. The permission letters to the Ganesh mandals will be sent via email within four-five days,” deputy commissioner of police (economic and cyber) Sudhir Hiremath said on Thursday. 
 
 However, the manual facility to accept applications at the single window system of the police commissionerate from mandals not versed with the new system will continue for the time being. 
 
 The city has 4,579 mandals — 2,891 registered and 1,688 not registered. The number of the mandals has increased this year because of the merger of the fringe villages with the police commissionerate’s limits, sources in the police said.
 
 The online facility is a initiative of police commissoner Rashmi Shukla. It will be launched on a trial basis to streamline the process of issuing permissions, as various mandals have been complaining of undergoing hardships in seeking necessary nods from various authorities. This year, the mandals will have to log in to www.punepolice.co.in to avail of the online facility. 
 
 Hiremath said, “We have started the centralised system and connected the authorities concerned to take fast decisions while issuing the permissions. We are encouraging all small and big mandals to seek the permissions online.” 
 
 The police stations have been asked to take a call in case any mandal refuses to take the permission. 
 
 “We have provided four noise level meters to each police station to check pollution during the festival,” the police officer added. 
 
 The 12-day Ganesh festival will be celebrated between August 25 and September 5. The mandals have planned to organise month-long functions and events to mark the 125th year of the annual festival this time. 
 
 
