THANE: In yet another case of attack on cops, three men allegedly kidnapped a   in   and even tried to throw him off a running   around 12.45am on Wednesday. 

 Thane   beat marshal Dashrath Pawar (42) and a colleague, Sau Sakhre (30), were on night patrol duty when they spotted three men seated inside a car. Suspecting something was amiss, Pawar went up to the car and asked the driver and the other two to step out. Pawar and Sakhre frisked the men who returned to their seats. Pawar now entered the vehicle to examine it. The moment he stepped inside, the driver started the vehicle and and sped away. The passengers even tried to throw Pawar out of the car midway but failed in their attempt. In the melee, the car jumped on a divider and collided with a tree, forcing the accused to flee. 
 
 The incident took place around 12.45am on Ghodbunder Road. Kasarvadavli police have registered a case under Indian Penal Code sections 364 (  or abduction in order to murder), 332 (causing hurt to deter a public servant from duty) and 335 (causing grievous hurt on provocation).
 
 Param Bir Singh, Thane police commissioner, said he appreciated Pawar for his courage and dedication to duty. “We have recovered some canes from the car. A probe is on. Pawar has done a brilliant job and we will reward him in our crime conference for his bravery,” he said.
 
 Datta Dhole, senior inspector of Kasarvadavli police station, said, “Pawar fought back and managed to get his hands on the steering wheel. The car turned it a little, jumped on a divider and collided with a tree,” said Dhole. The accused drove for more than 2.5km, till the damaged car could go no further. “They ran towards a nearby jungle as they had seen Sakhre following them on a bike,” said Nasir Kulkarni, crime police inspector. After the car was seized, cops found equipment used by gangs that pilfer diesel and petrol. With the RTO’s help, cops found that the car is registered in the name of a Kurla resident, one Sharma. They have also got the call data record of a phone found in the vehicle. They are also going through records of gangs involved in fuel pilferage.
 
