NEW DELHI: While the Aam Aadmi Party’s decision to appoint   as in-charge of Rajasthan is being seen as a conciliatory move, it underlines a key political point: that the party is going ahead with its plans to expand its footprint nationally. 

 Recent debacles have led to discussions on the party’s strategy for forthcoming elections, like the one to the Gujarat assembly, but it hasn’t stopped it from planning for the long term. Rajasthan will go to polls sometime next year. 
 
 Vishwas, who has been highlighting back-to-back election setbacks to drive home the need for “deeper introspection”, now has a role where his power to stir the grassroots and mobilise volunteers will be tested. 
 
 The decision of the political affairs committee, led by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, is seen as a signal to volunteers and party functionaries alike that while the brass wants its members to stay, disciplinary issues can’t be overlooked.
 
 Significantly, while Okhla MLA Amanatullah Khan was the first one to be removed from PAC — and was subsequently suspended pending an inquiry — the party stopped short of expelling him. This sends out a strong message that AAP wants all its members on board as long as they stay within limits that fall under the definition of party discipline. 
 
 Later on Wednesday, deputy CM Manish Sisodia met Khan in Okhla, triggering speculation. Party sources said Sisodia informed Khan about his suspension. Protocol demanded that he be told about the PAC decision, sources said. The message appears to be that the CM doesn’t want any fresh infighting at the ground level as in the post-municipal election scenario, AAP wants to keep its flock together.
 
 Sources said the PAC was holding daily meetings ever since the civic poll loss and the party structure was being closely looked at. PAC members felt that volunteers had felt ignored with the focus being on governance and the party didn’t want to repeat the mistake. Expansion plans at the national level are under review too. The party is also taking a close look at units in other states that could be strengthened. In the days to come, PAC will also have to decide on appointing the in-charge and co-incharge of the Punjab unit.
 
 
