THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   has reaped more benefits out of the   than any other outfits. The proactive role played by BJP former state president V Muraleedharan in support of the   has not only metamorphosed the student strike to a political showdown but also reloaded him as a prospective candidate capable enough to replace O Rajagopal in   seat for the 2019 polls. 

 The BJP now knows that for the  , it can bank on the young student brigade of the capital district who turned up for the protest . "There may be a difference of opinion on who has ultimately won in the almost a month-long agitation. But as far as the BJP is concerned, the victory is ours. Muraleedharan's entry into the strike scene has left fissures in the LDF. The strike has increased the political acceptability to both the BJP and Muraleedharan. Both the BJP and the CPM vied with each other to turn the agitation into a show of strength. The Congress being a late entrant, could not make much political gains," a senior BJP leader said.
 
 Sources said Muraleedharan's decision to stage an indefinite hunger strike in front the academy was a spontaneous reaction to a first person account of the harassments the students had to undergo in the academy. The academy student, who was from a BJP family, briefed Muraleedharan on the gravity of the problems faced by the students. When the BJP leader made his decision to go on a strike, the BJP state president Kummanam Rajasekharan was more than happy to support the move. 
 
 Muraleedharan had given a tough fight to   when he contested from Kazhakkoottam seat in the 2016 assembly elections. The strike has helped him to make inroads in Vattiyoorkavu assembly seat, which is also part of the Thiruvananthapuram Lok Sabha constituency. 
 
 Many in the political circles believe the political causalities in the law academy strike would be the SFI and the CPI. While the SFI has lost its face by trying to steal the show by entering into an agreement with the law academy management and announced its withdrawal from the strike, the CPI has much more at stake as its candidate would be fighting the Lok Sabha election from Thiruvananthapuram constituency. "The support the CPI leaders and cadres gave to the strike that was politicised by the BJP would do more damage than benefit to the CPI, at least in Thiruvananthapuram," BJP leaders said. While V Muraleedharan on Wednesday greeted all the organisations that stood with the strike, BJP state general secretary K Surendran was blunt enough to ask the CPI to continue with its stand to prove its political integrity. He also asked the CPM to dismantle the SFI and the DYFI which have "lost their relevance." Last but not least, the emergence of law academy hostel girl students as an invincible force in the strike was a surprise by itself.
 
