Chennai: In the midst of the   outbreak and viral fever in several northern districts in the state, schools will reopen after pooja holidays on Tuesday. Without adequate precaution, mosquitoes and crowded classrooms can wreak havoc.

 The directorate of public health and school education have drawn up a schedule to create awareness, including cultural programmes, in schools across the city.
 
 More than 11,000 people across the state, including 1,500 from Chennai and suburban areas, have been hospitalised for symptoms of fever. Apart from a deadly   strain, many people are affected by dengue. As of now, more than 250 people, mostly children, have tested positive for dengue are still being treated at various hospitals and more than 21 people have died.
 
 Public health officials say a large number of cases are being reported from Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Cuddalore and Thanjavur.
 
 “Our priority now is to ensure schoolchildren are safe. If it rains heavily, larvae and mosquitoes growing out the door will be destroyed. Otherwise, cases will go up,” said the director of public health Dr K Kolandasamy.
 
 The department is now planning awareness drives in schools. Students ambassadors will promote good sanitation practices as well as hand hygiene.
 
 Starting next week, little anti-mosquito squads armed with ladles, torch lights, and samples of Aedes larvae will visit houses near their schools to check for breeding spots of dengue-causing mosquitoes and offer tips to clear them out.
 
 The directorate of school education has also sent circulars to school managements along with advisories on how to keep the campus clean and mosquito-free.
 
 Health workers will teach students all about the mosquitoes and how they breed using interactive media including videos to spread awareness. Students will go on field visits with health department officials and their teachers in and around campuses to identify larvae of mosquitoes and clear them out. “We have already done similar programmes in the southern districts. They were a huge success,” Kolandasamy said. 
 
 While some students will form teams to take out a rally or do street plays to create awareness, some will prepare reports and alert health officials about breeding sources.
 
 Besides Aedes, another big problem for the health department is quackery, said health minister C Vijaya Baskar.
 
 “The priority is to tell people not to self-medicate and go to the right doctors. Most deaths have happened either because people don’t go to the hospital or meet the right doctor. In the last three months, we have sent nearly 100 quacks to jail,” the minister said.
 
 
