INDORE: While the rulebook says   have been waived off for all vehicles that spend seven or less minutes in the   of Indore,   have been complaining that they are being made to pay the minimum charge of Rs 60 even if they spend less than the stipulated time on the premises of the airport.

 According to the members of   of Indore, the toll-booth employees tamper with timings to collect the fee.
 
 The matter reached a high on Monday morning when members of the association reached Aerodrome police station and they complained that one of them was allegedly beaten up by the employees of the agency that runs the toll-booth, following an   of the fee. The association members also gave a written complaint in the name of the airport director, and airport officials said they would take action against the toll-booth employees engaged in the malpractice.
 
 The police said that a cab driver, Ikbal Khan, had refused to pay the fee claiming that he had spent less than seven minutes on the premises. An employee from the agency then beat him up. When the other drivers tried to intervene, they were also assaulted,” said Aerodrome police.
 
 The airport authority had earlier fixed the time period for free pick/drop of passengers from the airport premises at seven minutes.
 
 The association members on Monday met airport authorities and gave a written complaint alleging that the toll booth staff were charging them Rs 60 even if they had spent less than the time stipulated by the airport authorities for free parking.
 
 “Despite instructions from airport authorities, their staff are taking entry fee from us,” said Nitin Jadhav, founding member of E-cab owner and operators’ association of Indore, while speaking to TOI. Jadhav also alleged that when our members opposed this practice of illegal collection of entry charges, they beat them up and made them pay. Sometimes, they even take time in clearing the entry of vehicles and thus making other drivers wait for more than stipulated time for free parking, he said.
 
 
