NASHIK: The   has grabbed the spotlight of the civic elections this year as various political parties have pledged to make it pollution free.

 City-based environment lovers and the residents have been demanding for the candidates contesting the civic polls to serve to the cause of cleaning the river and rid her of the pollution if they want to get votes.
 
 Garnering support for the movement, a   video initiative was launched recently by the activists and celebrities, following which politicians have started thinking about the river.
 
 After the move, two public interest litigations (PILs) from Nashik at the Bombay High Court (HC) and one from Trimbakeshwar at the National Green Tribunal, Western Zone in Pune, have failed to make the civic administration clean the river.
 
 The hope to get the HC orders implemented in the backdrop of the civic elections have failed the citizens.
 
 During its five-term tenure, the ruling   (MNS) has failed to address the river issue. This time too, it seems that the party is bereft of concrete plans to do away with the river pollution.
 
 Party officials have maintained though that they are planning to incorporate some policies to curb the pollution in their poll manifesto.
 
 “Cleaning the Godavari is on top of the party’s priority. It will be included in our party manifesto for this civic poll. Within two days, the manifesto will be ready and details will be made public,” said senior MNS leader and party spokesperson, Avinash Abhyankar.
 
 Following suit, the city units of the Bharatiya Janata Party too have made similar promises. City party president, Balasaheb Sanap said, “Making the Godavari pollution-free is definitely our priority this civic polls. We are in the process of making our manifesto and will finish it in a day or two.”
 
 Meanwhile, founder of Purogami Lokshahi Aghadi, Sanjay Aparanti said that they have a comprehensive plan to clean the river in their manifesto. “Preventing the Godavari river pollution and cleaning it is our priority. This is the most important thing that we will do with the administration and people’s participation. We have to make this a revolution among the people. After cleaning the river, it will be the people’s responsibility to prevent further pollution. The HC order is of no use if there is no implementation of it,” said Aparanti.
 
 On the other hand, Shiv Sena has not only made the river pollution a priority for their manifesto but has also decided to highlight the failure of the ruling party in addressing the problem. “We are expecting the final manifesto in a day or two. We have prepared street plays on the river pollution which will be enacted across the city. The city chief is personally looking in to this,” said chief of Municipal Workers’ Sena and sitting corporator, Shivaji Sahane.
 
 
