CHANDIGARH: After Punjab, Aam Aadmi Party ( ) has set its eyes on  , however, the party is still undecided about taking a poll plunge in   and a lot will depend on the voters' verdict here. The lessons of systematic organization building carried out in   since 2015, will be replicated once a final decision is taken in this regard.

 Both Gujarat and Himachal will go to polls later this year and party insiders confirm that the strategy implemented in Punjab by national organization secretary Durgesh Pathak in Punjab will be replicated in Gujarat. "However, there is still no clarity on Himachal. A win in Punjab could prompt the party to try its luck in the Punjab-speaking areas of lower Himachal, including Kangra and Hamirpur districts," said a party leader.
 
 Sources said AAP is likely to go in for an internal survey to test the waters in Himachal. There is a view that the party runs the risk of stretching itself too thin by entering too many states so quickly. AAP leader and Delhi's deputy CM Manish Sisodia had said last week that the party would be contesting the   assembly elections due in 2018.
 
 Sources added that the party leaders involved in Punjab elections are taking it easy for now after a campaign stretching over a year. "The team for Gujarat is yet to be named and Pathak is being seen as the best bet by the leadership," added another leader.
 
 "There is still time for the Rajasthan elections. The next big thing for the party after Punjab and Goa will definitely be Gujarat. However, things will be different in Gujarat which is highly polarized and AAP still does not have any local leader. The party is yet to strike a chord with the voters by raising the right issues. However, it has enrolled more than 6 lakh members in the state and also contested 2014   elections by fielding candidates from 15 constituencies," said an AAP leader.
 
 "In case of Punjab, AAP's organization building team had begun work on the ground in 2015, and had appointed nearly one lakh office bearers by the time the campaigning kicked off in the state. The frontal organizations of the party played a key role in its outreach efforts such as "' arivar Jodo" and "Youth dialogue."
 
 The organization building in Chandigarh seems to have been, meanwhile, put on the backburner as AAP focuses on poll bound states.
 
