CHENNAI: Citing practical difficulties in implementing safety rules for transport facilities, Bala Vidya Mandir (BVM) School, Adyar became the latest addition to the long list of schools that have over the years downsized or withdrawn their   services. 

 The school announced its decision last week to roll back the bus service from the next academic year due to difficulty in complying with transport guidelines. 
 
 The school said rules "stipulated by the government and CBSE are not only stringent but also involve a lot of practical difficulties with regard to implementation." 
 
 In light of several accidents involving school buses across the country, CBSE had also issued a fresh set of guidelines for safety last month.
 
 A message sent by the BVM management stated, "The entire process appears to be a laborious one incurring intensive co-ordination between parents, government authorities and CBSE thus making school bus transport more expensive and difficult for all stakeholders."
 
 Schools say that since the last few years several institutions gradually downsized their fleets of buses. Except for schools like Chettinad Vidyashram, Maharishi Vidya Mandir and  , there are very few schools running a big fleet of buses, say institutions.
 
 The scenario has automatically led to more number of private vans ferrying students. SBOA and St Bains School, Kilpauk are examples where private van operators are found swarming outside the campus in large numbers.
 
 Rakesh, a parent, said although there are many private options available, he opted for a school bus simply because he felt it was safer. 
 
 Another parent said increased or improved facilities could also mean a hike in the bus fee which several parents are not willing to pay. 
 
 Vishnucharan, correspondent of  , said the school ordered 12 new buses for the academic year with the safety features for each costing them `50,000 more leading to an overall additional expenditure of `6lakh. 
 
 He pointed out, "If government authorities provide student-only buses fitted with all safety measures, improve public transport safety, or prescribe norms for private operators, students and parents can opt for them with no hesitation." 
 
  principal   said that schools should be empowered to control the way private operators function. 
 
 "The two parties should be in consultation with each other to ensure safety," the principal said.
 
