When  , the   actress, who became an overnight star among Tamil audience, came down to a college in Coimbatore recently to address the students, little did she expect that she would end up kick-boxing, showing off her martial art skills at the venue.We caught up with the actress for a quick chat after her first ever interaction session with students.

 How was your interaction with students?
 
  I am glad that I got the opportunity to address the students. It was fun and I think I managed to keep them engaged throughout the session.
 
 Your next film   is up for release
 
  Yes...But, I am yet to see the final cut of the film. I did see the original in Kannada (also named Shivalinga) before I began my work on the remake; but I didn't try to infuse any elements from the film. I approached the Tamil version as a fresh project and let my character to evolve naturally during the shoot. I figured that in a horror movie, there is a lot of imagination involved and it was quite interesting imagining ghosts and graveyards during the shoot. I just went by what P Vasu sir (director) told me. I play a happy , chirpy girl in Shivalinga.
 
 Working with  ...
 
  Raghava sir is a riot on the set. It was a big challenge dancing with someone like him. I practiced so much that I ended up injuring my right knee. I prepared really well as I wanted to prove that I could dance, too. Even if I couldn't match up to him, I wanted to give my best. I have never danced like this before, and let me tell you, you will see Ritika, the dancer in the film.
 
 And, now your next project is with  ...
 
  The shoot for Vanangamudi has just begun.I have always heard that Arvind Swami is a very quiet person. On the other hand, I am someone who likes to talk a lot. In fact, silence kills me and I am not very comfortable with people who are quiet. But it was extremely comfortable working with Arvind Swami Sir. He gave me plenty of tips and encouraged me to go ahead full throttle during the shoot. He said, `If you feel you have to do something extra for a scene, do not think twice about it'.
 
  dreams, if any...
 
  Of course! I would love to work in Bollywood. I am well-versed in Hindi and that's the language that I think in. In fact, it would be easier for me to work there. But I want to do some good films and not just sign up anything that comes my way .
 
 Are you still in touch with  , your first co-star?
 
  I speak to him regularly . I told him I was coming to Coimbatore and he was excited about it as he had also addressed students in the city last year.
 
 How is the Telugu remake of Irudhi Suttru coming along?
 
  It has been challenging working on the remake as I have to repeat and match up to my old performance. When you are reprising your character, there is not much scope to experiment with it. Also, when I started working on Irudhi Suttru, I was a teenager.Now, I am 23 and have changed as a person.But all said and done, I enjoyed working on the movie. Guru is going to be an epic. We have added a few scenes and Venkatesh's character (played by Madhavan in the Tamil version) has got some new dimensions, too. His character would be a highlight.
 
 You are also a martial art expert. Are you planning to continue practising it?
 
  Yes...Martial arts has helped me shape my personality and shed all my inhibitions. It keeps me sane and grounded. I am someone, who easily gets bored. I can never do Pilates as it's slow. I would rather prefer to kick and punch. I am soon planning to host a show in martial arts that will bring out hidden talents from across the country . There are many out there, who have not got their due recognition. I don't understand why cricket gets all the attention in our country?
 
 But do you think that awareness about other sports is on the rise, especially after the recent feat at Rio Olympics?
 
  Definitely! In fact, films like Dangal and Sultan have also brought the spotlight on other sports. Let me tell you, it's really challenging for a woman from Haryana to win a medal. I have seen women there being married off at a young age without even their consent. They bury their dreams and end up doing dishes and being a good bahu. So, when   won a medal, I was quite excited. I see her as an inspiration.Many athletes, especially in remote rural villages, do not even have the basic facilities to train. If you want medal winners, the first step is to provide them the basics.
 
 Do you believe in the institution of marriage?
 
  Yes, I would like to get married someday .I think marriage would work for me as it will help me stay focused on one person.
 
 Has life changed after your debut?
 
  I love the attention, recognition and the praises coming my way. I think films will be a priority hereafter. I want to play some interesting characters -rock star, drug addict or an alcoholic. I am a bad singer and I have never tried alcohol or drugs. It would be fun to play such characters that are completely new to me. But martial arts will stay with me. 
 
  
 
 
