NEW DELHI: Five ragpickers, including three children, died allegedly due to suffocation while looking for scrap inside an   in   on Saturday. 

 According to eyewitnesses, the three children-Saidul (12), Safikul (8) and Lal Chand (7)-had entered the   carrying sewage sludge though an opening near Goyla Khurd village in search of discarded bottles and other scrap materials. Minutes later, the two adults-Afsar Ali and Hasidul-also went inside looking for the kids.
 
 "One of the children came running out shouting that the other two were lying unconscious inside the drain. The father and the uncle then rushed inside the underground section of the drain but never came out. Realising something was wrong, we called police. But it was too late; the five had already died," said Ram Naresh, who helped fire service personnel to retrieve the bodies from the drain. They had to break open a sealed portion around 11am to take out the bodies. 
 
 While the reason for death could not be ascertained yet, PWD officials said it might be due to heat and inhalation of noxious fumes, which could have accumulated inside the enclosed drain. It carries the dung and refuse from the nearby dairies. Four of the victims were from the same family. Both Hasidul and his son Saidul worked hard to manage the family of seven. Hasidul is survived by his wife and four daughters. 
 
 An inconsolable Rohima (20), mother of Lal Chand, said, "My brother-in-law, my son and a nephew died. The kids might have entered the drain while playing. I was not home when the incident took place. They were taken to a hospital. By the time I reached there, everything was finished." 
 
 She is yet to inform her husband, who lives in Assam's Barpeta district, about the tragic incident. There are many migrant families from West Bengal and Assam living in the area, who have turned ragpickers to eke out a living. 
 
 Mahesh Kumar, the scrap-dealer who used to buy discarded materials from the five ragpickers, was present at Rao Tula Ram Hospital in Jaffarpur where the postmortem was carried out. "Maybe they got trapped inside the drain. Doctors haven't told us about the cause of the death yet. I had known them for 12 years." 
 
 Locals said that a portion of the drain, through which the five entered inside, was barricaded but someone removed the fencing. Police have registered a case under section 304-A (causing death due to negligence) and further investigation is on. 
 
