Frenzied drum beats that set your heart racing; heady scents of marigold, vermilion and sacred ash; milling crowds jostling for space, their sweaty palms joined in fervent prayer, their eyes lit up in hope — these timeless sights and sounds marked day 2 of the   festivities at Ujjaini   temple, General Bazar, on Monday morning. As the stage was set for the all-important event —‘Rangam’ — devotees from all corners of   lined up for a darshan and to find out firsthand what’s in store for the year ahead. 

 For the uninitiated, ‘Rangam’ is derived from ‘Rangasthalam’, or the space in which the village oracle stands on an earthen pot and spells out predictions for the future. At the heart of it all is a virgin, revered as ‘Shiva Shakti’, who is believed to be possessed by the Mother Goddess, thus becoming a channel of communication between goddess and her devotees. “While the tradition of the oracle itself dates back to 900 years, the first recorded mention of Rangam is atleast 200 years old. Initially, Rangam was not part of the Bonalu festival at  , but it got ingrained into the main festival over a period of time,” says Hari Krishna Mamidi, Director, Department of Language and Culture, Telangana. 
 
  Although there are similar events at Golconda and Lal Darwaza as well, the ritual at the Mahankali temple in Secunderabad is considered to be the authentic one. 
 
 Why Rangam is a microcosm of Telangana culture 
 “In villages, rainfall was and is the chief concern of the people as it can make or break the village. Also, ‘Bonalu’ is celebrated during the transition period from summer to monsoon. Villagers are usually worried about diseases arising from water contamination and change of season during this phase, affecting their families and livestock. Therefore, these were the chief questions asked of the village Oracle back in the day. In that sense, ‘Rangam’ is a wonderful, symbolic representation of the agrarian culture of Telangana,” says Hari Krishna.
 
 The making of an Oracle
 Decked in a yellow sari, her face smeared with turmeric, dancing wildly to the sound of drumbeats, cymbals and conch shells, the oracle   makes her way through the packed temple into the inner sanctum of the temple. Entranced, she soon climbs onto a clay pot, and begins her prophecy. “What will the monsoon be like this year...?” “What’s in store for our State?” “Are you pleased with the worship offered to you?” — the temple priest asks her. As the Oracle answers, devotees strain their ears to catch every sacred word she utters. 
 “While Bonam is basically an offering to the Mother Goddess for fulfilled vows, ‘Rangam’ is a sort of feedback from the goddess to the devotees. She tells whether she is satisfied with our worship or whether we’ve been found wanting in our devotion,” says Markandeya of Karimnagar, who has been a regular at Rangam for the past five years.” 
 
 Not everyone can qualify as the Oracle. It is usually a designated person, hailing from a family exclusively dedicated to this tradition for generations. And Swarnalatha has been the ‘chosen one’ for the past few years now. “The pot she’s standing on has not been baked in a kiln. In a normal scenario, it would have broken immediately. The very fact that she is able to stand on it proves that she’s blessed with divine grace,” claims another devotee. As the Oracle made her way out of the sanctum amidst a thick security cover, the air was rent with the cheers of devotees who were pleased with the preditions of plentiful rains and peace and prosperity for the people of the State. 
 
 
 
