GHAZIABAD: Four members of a vehicle-theft gang operating in   were arrested on Saturday. The police recovered two cars and ten   from them. They used to be active in Ghaziabad, Noida and parts of Delhi.

 The accused have been identified as Gaurav (31), Ravi (29), Vinay (27) and Akash (29). The four used to stay in Sihani Gate in Ghaziabad. Separately, a bike thief, Shadab, was nabbed in Vaishali. A Santro (DL 4C S 4794), an i10 (DL 7C N 8671), three scooties, three Passion Pro bikes and a country-made pistol were among them vehicles and arms seized from the accused.
 
 “We nabbed them fom Green Sweet Tiraha after getting a tip-off around 4.20pm on Friday. The four men were riding an Activa and another bike which were stolen from Ghaziabad in the past few months. During interrogation they revealed about a location behind an abandoned factory in Posa on Meerut Road where they used to keep the stolen vehicles. Two cars and 10 other two-wheelers were recovered from there,” said Parshuram Kumar, SHO, Sihani Gate police station. 
 
 The accused used to take the vehicles to one Dilshad who used to help them sell these in Soti Ganj, Meerut. Some of the accused are repeat offenders and have been jailed before as well in cases pertaining to theft and robbery.
 
 An FIR under Section 379 (theft) of IPC was registered against the accused. They have been sent to judicial custody.
 
 The police later managed to arrest another accused for stealing motorcycles from across NCR. The accused has been identified as Shadab (26), a resident of Bhajanpura, New Delhi. Cops said they received a tip-off that a member of a bike-stealing gang was going to Vaishali from New Delhi on a stolen motorcycle on Friday. Shadab was nabbed near the Hindon Canal bridge in Vaishali around 8pm. Based on the information provided by the accused, three stolen motorcycles — a Hero Splendor, a TVS Apache and a Bajaj Pulsar — were recovered.
 
 The police said he was a member of a gang involved in stealing motorcycles parked outside malls and other places in NCR. “He operated in Ghaziabad and Noida. The accused said the gang steals bikes in NCR and sells them in Meerut,” said Pradeep Tripathi, SHO, Indirapuram police station.
 
 
