GURGAON: Huda chief administrator Vikas Gupta, in a recent order, has sought a detailed report on the   crisis in different parts of the city, after receiving numerous complaints from citizens who are already suffering from extreme heat in this simmering summer.

 Sources said the Huda’s engineering wing had been given the task to prepare the report, highlighting disruptions in supply over the past two months and reasons behind these disruptions, to provide a comprehensive insight into the city’s overall water supply system. 
 
 Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav admitted the chief administrator had sought details for review. “The engineering wing has been asked to provide data related to water supply within this week,” he added.
 
 Yadav, however, claimed the water supply situation was normal across the city for the past few days. “We have been taking prompt action wherever disruptions have been reported. Currently, the supply is normal,” he maintained.
 
 Yadav’s claim notwithstanding, people living in different parts of the city have been complaining about acute water crisis triggered by one reason or the other since the beginning of summer.
 
 While the season’s first disruption in March, was effected for maintenance, shifting of the main pipeline near Hero Honda Chowk and Iffco Chowk for construction of underpasses resulted in another round of water crisis in April. These apart, damages in pipelines at Iffco Chowk, Sector 5 and Sector 52 forced people in various areas to live without water for days throughout the month of April.
 
 Similar, glitches in supply were reported in the first week of May due to pipe ruptures in Sectors 4 and 5, leaving several parts of old   dry for a couple of days.
 
 A senior Huda official said shifting of pipelines and unauthorised connections were the main reasons for disruption. “During an inspection a few days ago, it was found that many people connected their household pipes with the main supply line without permission, which led to damages. Valves at many places were found to be closed, causing disruptions in supply to the tail end of the main pipeline,” he added.
 
 On May 4 deputy commissioner of Gurgaon Hardeep Singh had issued a statement with details of water supply. He had announced that new zones, mainly for new Gurgaon (sectors 58-115), would be created for better supply.
 
 
