NEW DELHI: One in almost every five cases in consumer forums is related to the  , followed by complaints relating to the  , according to a sample analysis done by the  . 

 The latest data shared by the ministry with the state governments recently show that at present about 4.15 lakh cases are pending before different consumer forums, nearly three-fourth of them at the district level.
 
 The analysis of data of pending cases till 2015, available on   Confonet, show that there were 34,704 pending cases relating to the insurance sector out of the total 1.67 lakh cases. 
 
 Experts said consumer forums receive more insurance-related cases for two reasons. First, consumers prefer approaching these forums to civil courts where one has to pay court fee. Second, consumers, who largely buy insurance products in good faith without even going through the contract conditions properly, are confronted with tricky conditions to deny compensation by insurance companies.
 
 “Usually, insurance products are marketed and sold by agents whom consumers know for years. They sign documents in good faith even without going through the terms and conditions. Agents even take the responsibility to collect the premium from the consumers,” said Suresh Misra, professor of consumer affairs in Indian Institute of Public Affairs.
 
 He said the consumers come to know about the terms and conditions only when they apply for compensation. 
 
 President of National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission Justice D K Jain had last month observed: “Insurance companies should have a heart. I feel they lack it.” He had pointed out how surveyors often look into clauses written in the smallest fonts with a magnifying glass to prove that the insured person had failed to provide the most minute details while buying a policy.
 
 Former member of NCDRC Justice J M Malik said while consumer forums at three levels —district, state and Centre— were set up for speedy justice, the large number of pending cases points to the need to fix the system. “Governments are not not filling vacant posts of presidents and members in district and state forums. The number of judges deployed does not match with the number of cases.” he said.
 
