MUMBAI: A plaque on   informs that after the Harbour line was laid to   (now  ) in the latter half of 19th century, the old Mazgaon station was shifted further south and named after William Mansfield, governor of Bombay (1895-1900), known as Lord Sandhurst. 

 Were Lord Sandhurst alive today, he would have been disappointed to see the dismal state of B ward, which comprises areas abutting the station. Like most other wards,   too suffers the problems of “gutters, meters and water” along with lack of parking space and encroachers and hawkers.
 
 Old, dilapidated and cessed buildings await Mhada’s nod for cluster development as repairs by the BMC have proved just a temporary balm. “The BMC has neglected this ward for long. One-time expenditure is required to refurbish the ward,” said local MLA Amin Patel, adding that he used 99% of his MLA funds to repair old, dilapidated buildings.
 
 Spread over JJ Marg, Mohammed Ali Road, Abdul Rahman Street, Masjid Bunder, Dongri, Mandvi, Bhaat Bazaar and Sandhurst Road, B ward also houses two iconic mosques—Minara Masjid at   and Masjid-e-Iranian or Mughal Mosque at Dongri. Nagdevi Street is named after the ancient Nagdevi Hindu temple, while Jains have their devsthan here. Masjid Bunder and Masjid station are named not after a mosque, but two synagogues in the area. 
 
 Dongri resident M A Khalid blames both politicians and civic authorities for the crumbling infrastructure. “Rats roam freely, while water pipes leak frequently. Sewage get mixed with the water causing contamination and diseases. Yahan sab kuch bhagwan bharose chalta hai (Everything depends on willingness of God).” 
 
 The recent delimitation has caused disappointment, acrimony and at least one rebellion among the three sitting Congress corporators—Dyanraj Nikam (ward 221), Waqarunnisa Ansari (ward 222) and Javed Juneja (ward 223). After the restructuring, 30% of ward 222 merged with 221 and became ward 223 reserved for women. The remaining 70% from ward 222 went to 223 and became ward 224 reserved for women OBC. 
 
 Nikam, making his claim on the seat for being a three-time corporator, wants to field his daughter Nikita from ward 223. “Only a secular Hindu candidate can win on a Congress ticket from here because Shiv Sena can easily polarize voters along communal lines. I am justified in seeking the Congress ticket for my daughter,” said Nikam. A miffed Ansari, popularly called Aapa, quit the Congress and joined MIM, which has nominated her from this seat. “I have the backing of both Hindu and Muslim voters,” she said. As Juneja cannot fight from ward 224, he is seeking a nomination from 213 (Nagpada-Kamathipura). 
 
