NAGPUR: This has been a season of wrist spinners so far. While   and   are troubling the Aussies, another wrist spinner—Karn Sharma, has been in great form at the domestic level.

 The 29-year-old leg-spinner, who is the latest professional for  , has started the season with a bang. He has played three First Class matches this season and picked up 23 wickets. Sharma picked up 15 wickets for India Red in the ongoing  .
 
 No wonder, his performances got noticed by the national selectors who included him in the India ‘A’ squad for the unofficial Tests against New Zealand. Sharma justified his selection and bagged eight wickets for 120 runs as India crushed the visitors by innings and 31 runs.
 
 Former Vidarbha coach   has played a crucial role in bringing Sharma to the Vidarbha fold. Mhambrey, now a full time India ‘A’ bowling coach, was also the part of Mumbai Indians support staff, where he watched Sharma closely.
 
 Mhambrey feels Sharma and Vidarbha will mutually benefit from each other. “Karn has got a lot of experience at the First Class level. He has represented the country. He was part of the winning MI and Sunrisers teams. The most important point which I would look at is how keen he is. He wants to do well; he wants to play at the highest level for a longer time. This will help Vidarbha because if you have a pro who wants to do well, it lifts the whole team. His good performance will rub on to the other players,” Mhambrey told TOI.
 
 Mhambrey praised Sharma for taking the risk of quitting a government job to pursue his cricketing career. “It’s very unique to see someone resigning for a government job. It also shows his willingness to play good quality cricket at the highest level. This decision has given him the best opportunity. If one wants to grow as a cricketer and as a player, right atmosphere is also required for that. He felt Vidarbha would provide him that opportunity. The facilities and the exposure Vidarbha provides him will help him a great deal,” he said.
 
 The former Indian pacer turned coach feels Sharma’s allround abilities will help Vidarbha. “When you take these sort of decisions, you look at what he brings to the table. The decision has been taken accordingly when I was the coach. All I can say, he is a team man what I have seen him at Mumbai Indians fold. He wants to play at the highest level. He wants to enjoy his cricket and that’s what all the communication I had with him. He is come to a good team and good set up, where facilities are great. Not many states offer such facilities,” said Mhambrey.
 
 Vidarbha haven’t gone beyond the quarterfinal stage in Ranji Trophy. Will this move help the team?
 
 “No one can guarantee how far a team will go. It depends how you perform in the match. What is important is to create the right atmosphere. If you get a player like him, it will always help you. He was that part of the current Indian set up not so long ago. So, he will share that experience with the younger lot,” he signed off.
 
 
 
 
 4-39 & 6-94 vs India Green
 
 5-94 vs India Blue
 
 4-48 & 4-62 vs New Zealand 'A'
 
 
