Dressed in a golden lehenga-gown, Amdavadi girl   was seen flashing her dimpled smile as her fiancé   said, “Kem chho tame? Majaama?“ during the promotion of  . The duo was seen hugging and greeting Aashka's parents. Brent was the first to hug them and ask them teasingly, “Do I know this amazing couple?“ and the family laughter followed. Here are excerpts from a chat with this much-in-love couple as they settled down to have lunch and sipped on orange juice to beat the heat:

 
 
 
 
  When I was in the US, we were discussing about Brent shifting to India ­ I had a feeling that we would participate in a dance show together.Thankfully since we don't have two left feet, it is a gala time together.
 
 
  It is actually amazing to learn Indian dance formats.Back home, I was part of stage and dance for some time ­ so this opportunity is challenging and fun.
 
 
 
 
 
  Not really . My dad just told me he has got Alphonso mangoes for me at home ­ so my day is sorted.
 
 
  This is my fourth visit to Ahmedabad. I have seen all the important spots, from Adalaj Ni Vaav to Sabarmati Ashram. I love to spend time with my extended family i.e.Aashka's parents. Everytime we visit her naani, we have an amazing time together, as she treats us to some yummy Gujarati food and conversations with her are fantastic.
 
 How did you guys meet?
 
 
  At a concert in Las Vegas. I was there for holiday and he was part of the hospitality team. He approached me and we started interacting. It was on the fifth day of our meeting that he proposed to me and we met his parents. And that was when, I knew that we are meant to be together. I firmly feel when you know, you know, you don't need to buy time to think over it.
 
 
  And now, every day we are discovering more about each other. We are coming with new revelations and it is a wonderful feeling to see how Aashka is adjusting so much for me ­ as we belong to two different cultures.
 
 
  It is phenomenal to see that Brent's moving to In dia, which rarely happens when a woman marries a man living in another country .
 
 Women have to move to other city/state/country with their spouses ­ I am glad Brent's doing things differently . Now that's what I call being truly liberated and understanding.
 
 
 
 
 We are planning a wedding in December this year. Aashka: It will be a small family affair. I want our families to know each other better, so going for a big fat Indian wedding will not provide us that family-time which we want. Not only that, only 20 people from Brent's family and friends will be there, while my family will have 45 members attending the wedding. I want to have a small wedding but, it has to be a proper Hindu wedding as Brent is keen on understanding the wedding rituals. And may be, this way we can save money and spend it on an exotic holiday post wedding.
 
 
 
 
 It is a super-revision session for me everytime I explain to him about traditions, festivities or rituals. He wants to learn it all, he appreciates them. It is like ­ we all know our traditions but with him, even I am refreshing my knowledge. It makes me feel proud of our culture.
 
 
  We are trying to cultivate that habit of learning about each other and our backgrounds in a detailed way .And learning more about India brings me closer to Aashka.
 
 
 
  
 
 
