Chennai: As high as 80% of printers across the country are facing a possible shut down due to rising prices of paper and other raw materials, said the All India Federation of Master Printers (AIFMP). The print and packaging industry in Tamil Nadu has been particularly struggling to make ends meet with the 30% hike in paper prices witnessed over a year. The last two months, post-demonetisation have been particularly dire for the industry. National and local association of printers on Thursday said they have been forced to increase prices by 15% to stay in business. announced in a press briefing that it was forced to raise the prices of its services across the board in order to stay afloat.  “The cost of paper has gone up — which is 60% of the total selling price of the printed product — and our margins are being squeezed because of an increase in wood prices,” said a member of AIFMP. The Indian paper industry has a capacity to produce 13 million tonnes (mt), accounting for 3% of global paper production.  With wholesale buyers unwilling to raise purchase prices, printers said they are being squeezed at both ends. “We need to have some intervention to mitigate the current situation as most of printers are running under heavy losses and are on the brink of shutting down. In this regard, we are soliciting the support of buyers across the country in revising cost by at least 15%,” said Mehul A Desai, president, Bombay Mills and Printers Association (BMPA). “Paper mills are also impacted as they have heavy borrowings from banks, based on a assumed profit margin. That hasn't happened in the last 3 years. We have been making steady losses and have to pay our supply chain vendors and the banks. Many mills have asked for rescheduling their loans or for extending their credit/overdraft limit and have been refused. We are facing a bleak future as cutting off credit means we cannot do further business,” said the AIFMP member. Associations like the Mumbai Mudrak Sangh (MMS) also pointed to the global increase in freight, increase in pulp prices, overhead costs as further reasons why the cost structure has increased for printers. MMS currently represents more than 800 print and packaging associations in Mumbai. “The 15% increase in prices we are seeking for will help printers break even or remain barely profitable. It will save close to 2.5 lakh printing presses, employing 4-5 million workers, from shutting down,” said Tushar V Dhote, president, MMS.