She is perhaps the oldest   in the country. At 98,   is as bubbly as a teenager and has oodles of energy. The   has been teaching yogasanas for the last 18 years and is a popular face in the city’s yoga circles. The yogini has taught thousands of students so far, out of which more than 500 students are teaching yoga across the world. This apart, 36 members from her family have gone on to become yoga instructors. They are all inspired by this one lady- Nanammal.

 When CT met the great-grandmother at her residence in Ganapathy, she had just returned from New Delhi, where she was conferred the   by none other than the President of the Country, Pranab Mukherjee on the occasion of International Women’s Day. She had also dined with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and performed asanas for the Union Cabinet Minister for Women & Child Development Maneka Gandhi.
 
 “I said ‘vanakkam’ to Modi and asked in Tamil if I could bring my son there for the official photograph? He didn’t understand anything and replied ‘Namaste’. But, when it comes to asanas, I am not shy or worried about anyone. I performed quite a few asanas during the dinner congregation with the Union Minister Maneka Gandhi. I can do it anytime, anywhere, in front of anyone,” says Nanammal with a grin.
 
 Nanammal has been doing yoga from the age of eight and has hardly missed a session till date. “I learnt it from my grandparents. There were no yoga classes back then. We would learn looking at others.” Nanammal has mastered over 50 asanas and can do them with effortless ease. “When I was a child, I have even won awards in Silambattam,” says the nonagenarian.
 
 Nanammal was born in an agricultural family in Jaminkaliyapuram. After marriage, she moved to Negamam on the outskirts of Coimbatore. “My husband was a siddha practitioner and a farmer. That’s how I developed an interest in naturopathy.”Nanammal is not only a yoga expert, but also provides paati vaidyams to her students. 
 
 “I am up before the first rays of sun. Getting up before sunrise can save you from many diseases. I drink few glasses of water first thing in the morning and brush my teeth with neem sticks. I teach yoga after my morning chores. I do not eat rice and my breakfast comprises millet kanji. For lunch, I have spinach along with kanji. Dinner is usually a glass of milk with pepper or turmeric powder and a banana. I do not include spices in my diet. I do not consume tea or coffee and I completely avoid white sugar. Thanks, to the strict diet and yoga, I have never stepped inside a hospital in my life. I have not touched antibiotics either.”
 
 Nanammal has won several medals and trophies at the national level and has travelled to many cities to perform yogasanas. “My entire family is into yoga. These days I hear many women undergoing C-section deliveries. Yoga can help you have a normal delivery. I want to spread this message across to all women out there. Yoga can help mitigate stress, constipation, sugar, high and low blood pressure and keep you perfectly healthy. My wish is that every house has a yoga exponent and everyone lives healthy, " says the nonagenarian, who has a legion of fans among her students. 
 
