BENGALURU: The rear wall of  's living room in Chennai's T Nagar was his five-year-old son's first practice partner. The father, a textile merchant, insists there were no damages, given how 'sweetly' his boy timed the ball even back then. His wife Alagammai, a homemaker, might have a different answer. But the most telling response came from   himself. He simply made the shots count. The 22-year-old, now India No.1-who will shoulder the bulk of the country's challenge in this weekend's   1 second-round affair against Uzbekistan -is the most experienced among non-playing captain  's singles options. With a 3-3 win loss record in the competition, Ramkumar - who is yet to play the two 22-year-olds in the opposition, Sanjar Fayziev (376) and   (406) or   veteran Farrukh Dustov, who is coming off an injury enforced break - will be looking to take first strike at the Karnataka State Lawn Tennis Association courts come Friday.

 Still, the Chennai-based pro, isn't the best-known Indian player on the rectangle. His name crops up in the media from time to time, but it hasn't caught on in the fashion of the other No.1s. Ramkumar burst into the national scene when he shocked   at the 2014 Chennai Open, after coming through the qualifiers. His forehand was on fire and the 19-year-old was clocking serves in speeds excess of 200 kmph. With  , 29, and Yuki Bhambri 24, he has been the mainstay of the Davis Cup team. The youngest of the current crop, and perhaps the most explosive, Ramkumar has remained in shadows of his older compatriots.
 
 To fully comprehend the 6 ft 2' pro's journey, now ranked 267, it's important to get acquainted with his beginnings.
 
 Ramanathan for a while dabbled with badminton, but it was tennis that hogged his interest. The moment his son showed an inclination towards the sport, he wasted little time in introducing him to it. Ramkumar wasn't an instant success, but improved rapidly the more he waded into it.
 
 At the age of 14 he caught the attention of Karti Chidambaram, the Tamil Nadu Tennis Association's heavyweight leader, and was duly shipped off to the Sanchez-Casal academy in Spain. TNTA has also given Indian tennis a strong bunch of young players, including two other Davis Cup first timers in   and Sriram Balaji.
 
 "I expected him to be knocking on the doors of the top-100 by now, he has the potential," Karti said. "At one time, he was the 20th best under-21 player in the world. I think he hasn't quite grasped the physicality of the sport, which maybe holding him back. But if you look at the international game today, you'll notice that a lot of players are playing into their 30s, so maybe this is the phase where he'll come into his own." 
 
