KOLKATA: It was commendable how entrepreneurs of Bengal kept the engine of industry running in the face of  , lauded state finance and industries minister   at the 5th ET Bengal Corporate Awards organised by The Economic Times and   (ACAE) on Wednesday. 

 Mitra pointed out that while the rest of the country witnessed a negative growth in the index of industrial production (IIP) last year, the figure for Bengal was positive: "India's IIP was down by 1% last year, but Bengal saw a growth of 4.8%. This is a remarkable achievement." But he was quick to add that demonetisation had broken the backbone of the unorganized sector in India. "Half of the power looms in Maharashtra have shut down. It pains to see those labourers return home in hordes. In Bengal, too, we have a serious situation with thousands returning from Gujarat as the diamond-cutting industry is severely affected," he said, adding IMF numbers predicted a likely downward slide of GDP by almost 1%. "Former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh had said it might come down by 2%, while some economics think tank predicted a 3.5% dip. This means almost Rs 3 lakh crore have been wiped off economy, for no apparent reason," Mitra said. 
 
 Talking about Bengal's growth in the past five years, Mitra claimed plan expenditure had trebled and gross state domestic product doubled from Rs 4.5 lakh crore in 2011 to over Rs 9.5 lakh crore now. The capital expenditure had increased by seven times. "Our government has built 11,000 km of highways in the hinterland. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee conducted 115 administrative meetings in the districts last year to ensure road work was sped up. We have also set up 6,000 primary schools," the minister said. 
 
 About Kanyashree, one of Mamata's pet projects, Mitra pointed out recognition for the programme had come from none other than the United Nations (UN). "Now, more than 30 countries want to implement the scheme, a brainchild of the chief minister," he said. 
 
 Saroj Poddar, chairman of $3billion Adventz Group, who was instrumental in bringing Gillette to India, received the lifetime achievement award and Kumar Mangalam Birla the visionary award. "He is globally connected and his persuasion is legendary," said Mitra, conferring the honour to Poddar. 
 
 
