GURUGRAM: The additional   of Sadar police station was   in the retiring room of the police station on Saturday.

 Though it appeared that inspector   (48) committed suicide by shooting himself in the chest with his  , police are not ruling out   and are investigating the case from both angles. Kishore, who had joined the police station just five months back after getting a promotion, was acting as the station in-charge as SHO Vijay Kumar was on leave. He was found dead in the retiring room around 1.15 pm, minutes after he had gone there “to take rest for some time”, cops said. His body was found lying in a pool of blood and his revolver lying by the side by two junior staffers — constable Dheeraj and assistant Kundan — who had gone to the retiring room to fetch water for the visiting ACP (Sadar) Anil Yadav.
 
 The ACP had gone to the police station to investigate the fake arms licence scam that was unearthed in Gurgaon last month. “When I reached the police station, the additional SHO was not on his seat. When I asked for water, the two junior staffers went to the retiring room and found Kishore lying in a pool of blood. He was immediately rushed to a private hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead,” the ACP (Sadar) said.
 
 Sources said that CCTV footage of the police station captured Kishore going towards his car in the parking lot around 1 pm. “The retiring room is just near the kitchen. We heard a loud sound but thought that it could be glass smashing noise. We are shocked,” said a police officer, who did not wish to be named.
 
  As the news spread through the department like wildfire, a number of senior officers, including police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar, visited the police station, within an hour of the incident.
 
 Khirwar, however, said the exact cause of the additional SHO’s death will be confirmed only after a proper investigation.“We are not ruling out anything. Ballistic reports, forensic reports, statements etc need to be obtained and scrutinised. Only after a thorough investigation, we will be able to say if it was a suicide or an accident,” he told TOI.
 
 Kishore’s body has been handed over to his family members after a post-mortem. A retired Indian Air Force officer, Kishore joined   in 2008 as a sub inspector. He was a native of Narnaul district and is survived by his wife and two sons.
 
 
