Mumbai: There is bad news for Sunder Shekar alias  , who used to refer to himself as the   of the gold smuggler, the late   Mirza. 

 In a recent order, a city civil   permanently restrained him from projecting himself as an adopted son by any means. In a 13-page order, the court said, “It is hereby declared that defendant No 1 (Sunder) is not the adopted son of the late Haji Mastan Mirza. Defendant No 1 is permanently restrained from projecting himself as an adopted son of Haji Mastan Mirza through himself, his agent, servants, etc.” 
 
 The judge also directed Sunder to pay his own cost as well legal expenses incurred by Mirza’s daughter, Shamshad Supariwala.
 
 Mastan’s biological daughters, Shamshad, Kamrunnisa Lokhandwala and Mehrunnisa Sharif, had in 2010 filed a suit against Sunder’s claims that he was a foster son. The trio filed a suit in court seeking permanent relief. The sisters had claimed that in 1994, after Mastan’s death, Sunder was elected national chairman of the Bharatiya Minorities Suraksha Mahasangh, and after that, Sunder used to claim he was Mastan’s adopted son, which irked the sisters. “He used to work for my father and the latter used to treat him like a son. But Sunder took advantage of this and after my father’s death, he started declaring himself as his son, by means of newspapers and interviews, which was hurting us and causing mental torture,” said Shamsad.
 
 The argument was that for conferring the status of adopted son, he had to show that the law by which Mastan was governed, recognises the adoption, and admittedly Islamic law never recognised the concept of adoption; hence the story put by Sunder was not acceptable. “The defendent has projected himself as the adopted son in contravention of Islamic law. This is nothing but an illegal act. The act of projecting himself as adopted son will certainly effect the legal rights and status as daughters of Mastan,” the court order stated.
 
 “Merely the defendant helps daughters of Haji Mastan Mirza, merely he has taken the dead body of Haji Mastan Mirza and merely he has performed the chaliswa ceremony of Haji Mastan Mirza, will not automatically confer on him the status as an adopted son of Haji Mastan Mirza,” the court said.
 
