BHOPAL: Pollution in sacred river Kshipra after an expenditure of Rs 650 crore on during Ujjain Mahakumbh, has turned into a major concern for the   government. After one the BJP MLA demanding a probe into the lapses, former chief minister and senior MLA   also joined the chorus demanding a probe.

 Gaur said on Saturday that he would also raise the issue in the state assembly.
 
 BJP MLA from Ujjain South, Mohan Yadav, had written a letter to the Speaker and principal secretary of MP assembly demanding a debate in the House on pollution in river Kshipra. Yadav has now the backing of Gaur and some more BJP leaders who want an inquiry into alleged high-level corruption in Kshipra river conservation plan.
 
 “This is a serious matter as the state has spent a sum of Rs 650 crore in the cleaning of Kshipra during Kumbh. If sewage water is being released into the river through multiple sources after such a huge expenditure then government should take immediate action to check the contamination,” Gaur told TOI.
 
 He further said that MLA Yadav had moved an adjournment notice and demanded a debate in the house. Since, the matter is being raised by both the ruling and opposition party members, the government should come clean on the issue and take immediate step to check corruption and pollution in the river.
 
 “I will write to the water resources department to probe into contamination in river Kshipra as sewage water is still being released through various sources,” said Gaur.
 
 Sources in the BJP said, on one side the state government has launched a massive awareness campaign to save rivers through its ambitious Narmada Sewa Yatra, while on the other contamination in Kshipra and allegations of large-scale corruption by the ruling party members has left the government embarrassed.
 
 The issue has also given an opportunity to the opposition Congress that alleged corruption in Ujjain Simhastha. Congress state spokesperson K K Mishra said that party senior leader from Ujjain, Noori Khan launched a protest against pollution in the river on Saturday but, she was arrested by the police.
 
 
