BENGALURU: You may want to check whether the   (OFC) and telecom towers in your area are functioning legally. If not, your mobile network may be affected. 

  Following a meeting with service providers on July 10, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is all set to crack down on unauthorized OFC lines and telecom towers in the city. Saying repeated notices and communication to the companies hadn't elicited response, chairman of the standing committee on taxation and   M K Gunashekar said regularization of OFC lines and telecom towers would rake in crores of rupees in revenue. 
 
  "Our officials estimate that there are 10,000 telecom towers in the city. Of these, only about 200-300 have registered with us. The rest are classified as unauthorized. As per a draft notification, the company is liable to pay a one-time amount of Rs 50,000 per tower, which shall be adjusted if the charges in the draft are revised. Therefore, if all the towers are declared by the companies, we are set to receive approximately Rs 50 crore in revenue. We have given the companies 15 days to do so, failing which they'll be removed by a technical squad," said Gunashekar. Only one of the service providers who attended the meeting claimed to have already submitted the details of the towers owned by them. 
 
  The chairman said the companies had requested a portal, similar to the one for property tax payment, to make online submissions for approval of telecom towers. He said following talks with the IT advisor, the portal would be up in 10 days. 
 
  Gunashekar said with 14,118km of road within BBMP limits, service providers had only disclosed a few thousand kilometres of OFC lines as per online records. Setting a 15-day deadline for updating the OFC network online, he said illegal cables found on the ground but not in the online network would be "mercilessly removed". "We are expecting a revenue of Rs 300 crore from OFCs once the companies declare their entire network. There is network everywhere in the city despite companies only declaring and accounting for a few thousand kms. We have sent notices to all of them," he said, adding use of muscle power or criminal activity for laying OFC lines, as reported by residents, corporators and officials, would be addressed by filing criminal cases against the erring agencies. 
 
  No overhead OFCs on 
 
  TenderSure roads 
 
  On laying of OFC lines on TenderSURE roads, Gunashekar said seven roads had the   to lay the lines underground. To transfer the overhead cables underground, companies have to pay the BBMP Rs 1,500 per running metre and a refundable security deposit of Rs 800 for installing them in the underground ducts. "Any overhead cable found during inspection of TenderSURE roads w ill be removed," he added. 
 
 
