Mapusa: Arambol beach wore a festive look on Sunday, as local traditional fishermen had gathered at the spot to put out their ramponn to sea. They were all eager to showcase their skills in traditional fishing, and the rain did little to dampen their enthusiasm.  People from various parts of Goa, including local and foreign tourists, joined the coloufully attired villagers of Arambol as the Ramponnkarachem Fest organised by the local fishermen was set off with the ramponn being taken to the sea. After Fr Pio Almeida, parish priest of Our Lady of Mount Carmel, recited prayers and blessed the boat, they ventured far out into the sea. They placed the rampon (fishing net), while photographers in a separate boat kept clicking the action. They returned to the shore after about 40 minutes.  Despite the sea being rough due to inclement weather and the risk involved the ramponnkars managed to haul the nets. “Traditional fishermen know every sign of the sea, wind or weather from long experience. They can read the clouds like a book and can get the feel of the wind. Today, the wind is blowing from the south and it was risky they said,” Almeida said. The catch was not huge but good quantities of fish was being brought out of the sea. “Many people got some fish gratis,” Marius Fernandes, who helped organize the event, said. Mullets, crabs, shrimps, fish of different kind were netted in the rampon. Bostiao Pagi identified the fish for the curious crowd. Simultaneously, the cultural programme went on, as percussionist Carlos Gonsalves led on ghumot and many veterans from Arambol joined O’luv in singing to the beats of the ghumot.  A group of Hindu women performed a fugdi at the event. Lunch comprised traditional Goan dishes, which were served to more than 2,000 participants.  Daniel De Souza and wife Victoria, who drove down from Vasco, said, “We were fully drenched, but we enjoyed the rustic ambience at the Ramponnkaranchem Fest. The people of Arambol are very warm and hospitable.”