Gurgaon: Some 740   lost their lives in road   in Gurugram in the past four years — on an average 185 deaths every year due to reckless driving or lack of safety measures. However, the authorities are yet to come out of their slumber and take a comprehensive move to make the roads safe for those who walk to work or home.

 Though the figures may appear insignificant in a city with a population of over 15 lakh, they underline poor engineering of roads and expose a lackadaisical attitude of urban planners.
 
 There are around 500  , which are supposed to provide a safe passage to people on foot, but most of them are in bad shape. The   have either faded away or shockingly lead to dead-ends like grilles or walls, forcing pedestrians to wade through busy traffic dangerously. 
 
 A trip across the city reveals the so-called safe passages are almost invisible on roads like Gold Course Road and Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road. At crossings of Huda City Centre, sectors 29, 55, 56, 15 and 23, Sikanderpur, Sushant Lok etc, the existing crossings have faded into oblivion. 
 
 On MG Road, the zebra crossings hit Metro Rail’s pillars on both sides of the stretch while at other places, the stripes end in front of trees and road grilles, thereby defeating the basic purpose.“There are grilles installed along the roadsides. So people should either climb them or go straight, ignoring the zebra, towards the spot where there is an open passage. We do the latter,” Pushpa Gehlot, a resident of Sohna Road, said.
 
 A Sector 10 resident, Rajbala Yadav, said she tried to teach her children to follow safety rules and follow zebra crossings. “But, the markings are completely faded. There are nothing that I can tell them to follow. Near my residence, there is no red signal either,” she rued. 
 
 Transport expert Navdeep Asija said zebra crossings also act as speed-breakers as the black-and-white stripes indicate drivers to slow down. “However, most zebra crossings are planned unscientifically on Gurgaon roads,” he added.
 
 Moreover, majority of the roads do not have proper   or foot over-bridges. In fact, the roads are designed for vehicles, without any concern for the safety of pedestrians. Road medians at several places end in high slopes, which is again unscientific and unsafe for pedestrians. “Everybody is a pedestrian sometime or the other. Yet we don’t take any significant measure in planning, constructing and maintaining walkways,” said Sarika Panda Bhatt from WRI India.
 
 Surprisingly, civic authorities are aware of the situation, yet have done little to solve the problem. In fact, in January 2016, the traffic police had made a list of 60 spots in the city, which urgently needed zebra crossings. 
 
 The list included Signature Tower Chowk, Rajiv Chowk, MG Road, Atul Kataria Chowk and Maharana Pratap Chowk, etc. The list was given to MCG, but nothing has been done in this regard yet.
 
 “We know they are in bad condition but then we are short of manpower (by 70%). And it is also difficult to maintain the zebra markings regularly. As and when somebody reports a faulty zebra marking, we go and repaint it. But we are planning to introduce three-dimensional zebra crossings in the city and hopefully things will improve,” said Sudhir Chauhan, senior town planner, MCG.
 
 
