BHOPAL: The school education ministry has framed a policy which bars school buses from going to petrol pumps for refills while on duty. The policy also mandates two CCTV cameras to be installed on vehicles ferrying students.

 The policy has been framed after it was noticed that such buses would often drive into a petrol pump while ferrying students to and fro schools. Not only is this a waste of time for the students, but also fraught with risks, said the various stakeholders TOI spoke with.
 
 Additional regional transport officer Sanjay Tiwari said the policy should be implemented as soon as possible. “I am very happy to hear it because school buses often childrens’ time at petrol stations. There is no need to bring students to fuel stations. The buses can either fill after rendering service or before going for duty,” he said.
 
 Tiwari, however, added: “We cannot monitor all petrol pumps because we are short of manpower. But we will try our best to keep a check and we will also ask petrol pumps to lodge a complaint the moment they notice any such thing.”
 
 Additional SP (transport) Sameer Yadav said that the step would also help regulate traffic mess at petrol stations. He suggested that bus association representatives should be taken on board as well.
 
 The ministry also mandated that two CCTV cameras shall be installed inside buses - one at the front and the other at the rear. In this regard, schools would be asked to set up control rooms for maintaining at least 15 days’ records and four months’ backup as well, ministry officials told TOI.
 
 Minister of school education Kunwar Vijay Shah told TOI that his department is working out ways to operationalise the above by taking various stakeholders into confidence. “I had recently beaten up a bus conductor who was trying to harass a schoolgirl. The incident shook me. On that day I decided to take this step and ensure a safe environment for schoolchildren,” he said.
 
 Parents Association general secretary Prabodh Pandaya said, “It is a much-awaited announcement as it will bring respite to parents who always remain worried about their wards on account of rising number of molestation incidents.” He added: “Installing CCTVs will help reduce cases of sexual harassment and kidnapping while traffic will move smoothly at petrol stations,” he added.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Sagar Public School principal Pankaj Sharma said that if CCTV cameras are installed in buses owned by schools, the students would be asked to pay extra charges to avail the service. “Ultimately, the last consumer (students) will have to bear the charge if buses are on contract basis. In case of schools having their own buses, owners shall do the needful,” she said.
 
 
