New Delhi: Ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) has claimed that formation of secondary pollution particles due to the burning of furnace oil and pet coke in NCR is not evident. It also thinks further studies are needed to assess its impact on air quality before these residual fuels are phased out. 

 MoEFCC, in its   submitted to Supreme Court recently, quoted a National Environment Engineering Research Institute ( ) study commissioned by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). EPCA had recommended last December that these fuels be banned in NCR. MoEFCC said it conducted a meeting in February on banning these two fuels, but decided that   do a quick study.
 
 The NEERI study has an analysis of total pet coke and furnace oil consumption in NCR—about 4,516.5 tonnes per day of pet coke and 729.1 tonnes per day of furnace oil, which may emit 633 tonnes per day of SO2 from pet coke and 57.4 tonnes per day of SO2 from furnace oil. The estimated emissions of SO2 in NCR from pet coke, furnace oil and coal power plants respectively is 41%, 4% and 53% , the study claims. 
 
 In its conclusion, however, the study says emissions inventory and modelling studies for each NCR district is needed to arrive at a conclusion. A specific study on industries using high sulphur fuels may be conducted to ensure they meet stack emission norms.
 
 Researchers from Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) have red-flagged the NEERI study. “For the estimation of quantum of use of pet coke and furnace oil in NCR, the NEERI report has considered only major industrial units. It has not considered large-scale consumption across small and big units, including generator sets in NCR,” a CSE research note said. CPCB itself has also accepted this gap in its report.
 
 CSE said the numbers don’t add up. “According to them, only four coal power plants using 6,000 metric tonnes per day of low sulphur coal with up to 4,000 ppm sulphur emit 53% of SO2 from all industrial fuels. But the combined use of pet coke and furnace oil at about 5,200 metric tonnes per day...is nearly as much as coal. But sulphur level in pet coke is 18 times higher and in furnace oil six times higher. Where is that sulphur going?” 
 
 
