It's said that no other Indian state except Jammu and Kashmir has a flag of its own. But what really matters when Karnataka wants to have a flag of its own is whether the Constitution of India permits it. It does. There is nothing in the country's   that prohibits a state from having a flag. In fact, the Constitution itself says nothing about any flag, not even about our  .

 The constitutional scheme in India readily supports every state to have a flag of its own. India is a federal Constitution and states enjoy sovereignty under it. Please note that the Indian Constitution is the most voluminous constitution in the world, and some of the globe's finest constitutional scholars took part in its making. If our founding fathers had felt that a state having its own flag would lower the sanctity of a national flag, we would have expected them to say so in the Constitution and to forbid the states from having their own flags. They did not. They must have thought that India could safely take the route of several other federal countries where states too have a separate flag. I have studied the Constitution of India and have compared it with the leading constitutions of the world, and I have no hesitation in saying that the states in India are free to have a flag of their own.
 
 However, given the position of our national flag, a state must ensure that its flag does not lower the   in any manner. From a common man's perspective, one would expect the state flag to be placed at a lower height than the national flag.
 
 The   can issue an executive order to adopt a state flag and direct state government offices to hoist it.
 
 The state government, however, cannot force federal or central institutions to hoist the state flag unless the Karnataka Legislature makes a special law for the purpose, and such a law is assented to by the President of India. The high court, Reserve Bank of India, Raj Bhawan, central tribunals, buildings occupied by various Central government departments and similar agencies are federal institutions in Karnataka.
 
 Finally, if the Karnataka government intends to punish anybody for dishonouring or desecrating the state flag, its legislature will have to carve out a new legislation like the Parliament has already done to punish those who desecrate the national flag with three years of jail under the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971.
 
