When it comes to  ,   has the toughest law in the country that imposes  . But when it comes to sick cows, civic officials believe it’s a 9-to-4 job. If you find a sick cow on the street, especially after 4 pm, chances are the poor animal will stay there till the next day. The AMC vehicle (dabba) that ferries sick cows to panjrapols (cattle pounds) does not work after 4 pm. Weekends are the worst. If a cow falls sick on a Saturday after 4 pm, it will not get treated till Monday morning as the dabba service is not available on Sunday. 

 Five employees of AMC’s Cattle Nuisance Control Department (CNCD) handle this service. According to the  , it receives around 5 to 7 calls pertaining to sick cows every day on its helpline number 079-25359650. In case of stray cattle, where the owner is not known, the AMC pays the panjrapol to look after the animal. AMC’s ‘dabba keeper’ Piyush Khatri says, “Our dabba moves in the city from 9 in the morning to 5 in the evening. Once a call is received on our helpline number, it is forwarded to the ‘dabba’ driver. The driver makes a list of the calls and goes about collecting cows till 4 pm, then proceeds to the nearest panjrapol where they are admitted. By 5 pm, the dabba returns to the workshop after which no cows can be collected. Complaints received after 4 pm are attended to the next day.” Due to this, cattle keepers prefer to call NGOs if their cows are unwell.
 
 
 
 AMC’s limited-hour services for ill cattle has outraged many animal lovers in the city. Businessman Vijay Parsana, who is known for his devotion to cows and owns a ashram where he raises them, said, “Just like there is round-the-clock medical service for humans, cows should also get same facilities. While the government has passed an Act toughening anti-cow slaughter laws, the corporation is showing such apathy towards these gentle creatures. It is a form of cruelty.” Another animal lover Divya Shobhawat told Mirror, “Humans can at least voice their objections and demand their rights but these poor animals are mute. It is cruel to make them suffer. The AMC should have a 24/7 helpline for all animals including cows. This should not be an option but arule.”
 
 
 
 Earlier this week, a sickly stray cow lay writhing in pain for four days in Bhulabhai Park area, outside Navyug Colony on Gita Mandir road after the civic body failed to shift the poor animal to a cattle pound for treatment. Concerned residents who called up AMC were told that the vehicle to transport cattle was out of order. The residents finally called an NGO for help. Harsha Shah of Navyug Colony said, “After receiving no response from AMC for three days, we called the police who guided us to the animal helpline. An official said their ‘dabba’ has gone for repairs, so they cannot help.” The bovine was finally treated by a veterinarian from Jeevdaya Trust. “The cow had horn cancer. Someone operated on the horn but the stitches had come off and the wound was infected,” said vet J D Vora, who got an ambulance from the trust to shift the cow to a nearby cattle pound. Maldhari Ekta Samiti Pramukh Nagji Desai, said, “Recently, a cow in Bapunagar fell ill in the evening. We had to call an NGO to help us after we received no help from AMC dabba.” Some of the NGOs and hospitals that work for animal welfare include Asha Foundation, Jeevdaya Trust, Geetaben Rambhia Trust, Navkar Trust, Panjarapol, Madalpur and Delhi Darwaza animal hospitals. Harmesh Bhatt of NGO Asha Foundation said, “We receive 3 to 4 calls to attend to sick cattle during evening or night hours. We bring the animals here, but we can accommodate only a few cows as we are short of space. We receive a number of calls on Sundays, and on festivals when the dabba service is closed.”
 
 
 
 The Vishwa Hindu Parishad, which has been vocal about protecting the cow, has demanded that AMC should immediately start a 24/7 service for bovines. General Secretary of VHP Gujarat, Ranchhod Bharwad said, “Cow is a motherly figure for all of us. We demand that there should be a 24*7 helpline and ambulance for cows.” Interestingly, the Uttar Pradesh government has launched cow ambulance service. These vehicles are equipped with sirens, has a doctor on board, and exclusively serve injured cows.
 
 
 
 Mayor Gautam Shah said, “There are three Jeevdaya organisations, one AMC ambulance and two animal hospitals operated by the government to look after sick animals. Both these hospitals are operational throughout the day and the animals can be admitted at any point of time. The corporation does not have a helpline.” However, AMC Opposition leader Dinesh Sharma said, “Diseases do not wait for an invitation. So a helpline for this purpose should be functional 24/7 instead of being operational only for a limited number of hours. Action should be taken against officials who ignore call for help.”
 
