Mumbai: It’s rare that a company rewards its office boys with stock options. Such a policy has been followed by a few startup firms that have far fewer employees to begin with as compared with an established organisation. But at   Financial Services ( ), which has 3,800 employees, a good performance cycle this year has provided its employees — including the office boys — a reason to cheer. All employees who completed a year in service have been provided with   of MOFSL’s group company,  .

 Around 85% of the total strength of the diversified financial services firm has been covered under the ESOP scheme. Of these, all of its white collar staff who’ve completed a year in service have been issued ESOPs. The quantum offered varies based on the tenure and designation of the employee in the organisation.
 
 Sudhir Dhar, director & head (HR & admin), MOFSL, told TOI, “Employee stock options have been viewed across the globe as one of the most potent tools for creating value for the contributors. It is our strong belief that our employees are our growth drivers and our competitive advantage. We have allotted employee stock options from one of our fastest growing businesses ‘Aspire Home Finance’. Right from the office boys till the directors, everyone who’s been part of this wonderful journey has been rewarded.”
 
 In fiscal 2017, MOFSL posted strong growth across businesses. While housing finance was up 160% year-on-year (YoY), asset management business grew 68% YoY and capital market businesses increased 40% YoY. Aspire, which provides long-term housing finance assistance to lower and middle income families towards purchase of affordable housing units, is expanding its presence to become a pan-India player.
 
 By offering ESOPs across levels, Dhar believes the company has empowered its employees to ascertain the future of their investments by continuous efforts to add to the growth of the company so that their wealth too enhances in the process. 
 
 Most organisations offer ESOPs only to top-rung managers. The only other firm that offers stock options to all levels of employees is housing finance company HDFC.
 
 Commenting on the MOFSL ESOP offer to employees, Rituparna Chakraborty, executive VP,  , a staffing firm, said, “That’s very rare. It augurs well for the future if this becomes a more acceptable trend.”
 
 Citrus Pay, which was acquired by PayU, had reportedly offered one of its office boys stock options. “Bootstrapped startups have been seen to offer ESOPs to attract and retain top talent across levels — especially when they are starting out. While offering ESOPs to office boys is not really a norm, however, some organisations seem to have done that. It’s a generous move and creates goodwill and loyalty among employees,” said Chakraborty.
 
 
