One of television’s highly rated and longest-running shows — ' ' — underwent many changes last year. After the leads Naitik (Karan Mehra) and   ( ) quit in June and November respectively, a lot was speculated about their exit. 
While producer   has been a mentor to both Karan and Hina, their equation changed over the past few years. Now, in an online interview, the producer has opened up about the fallout. He said, “With due respect to both the actors, it is a fact that after Karan left, we could consolidate our position and the TRPs actually increased. After Hina’s exit too, the show has grown. This is not to say that they did not contribute to the show, but we were not able to shoot when those two were a part of the show as they had so much baggage. There were just two-three hours of shooting with the lead actors. Now, even if we are given a choice, the writers wouldn’t want Akshara back.” BT spoke to Hina and Karan about Rajan’s outburst and here’s what they had to say. Read on: 
 
 
 
 “I don’t want to get into this blame game. Well, he can say whatever he wishes to. Everybody has the right to express, but being a producer, why was he quiet when we were part of the show for eight long years? During that time, he went on record to praise both of us for our dedication and professionalism. And honestly, we were probably the only lead pair on television who continued to be with the show for eight consecutive years. Despite the work pressure, disagreements and other work opportunities (it’s not a joke, can anyone name one lead pair who stood with the show for so long?), we continued to stay loyal to the show and supported the producer. But now that we are not doing the show, he’s very conveniently contradicting his own statements. We never spoke ill about the producer, the production house or the show, but it’s heartbreaking that the most senior person from the production house stoops down to this level. People can always choose what to say and what not to. I still respect Rajan sir and will never speak ill about anyone from the show ever. I have moved on and I don’t want to pay unnecessary attention to such unimportant things. As far as working with him or the production house is concerned it doesn’t make any sense to comment on that. Why will I or him (Rajan Shahi) work with the same people when we all wish to explore new things?” 
 
 
  
  
 “I don’t know what he has said nor have I read his interview. It’s been eight months since I quit and everyone on the set and the channel knows my work and attendance records. If he is saying that I worked for two-three hours, he is referring to someone else because my attendance register is the proof. Also, I gave my notice period in advance. I don’t know who he has a grudge against and why is he saying it now? I was thanked by the channel and Rajan sir when I quit, so I don’t understand how this has emerged now. Honestly, I am happy in my space and looking forward to new beginnings. I am not in touch with him anymore and I can’t keep commenting on other people’s grievances. All I can say is, ‘To each his own’.”
 
  
  
 
