NEW DELHI: There was neither a reference to the Centre-state tussle that has marked most of the two years of the AAP government, nor an appeal for greater support from the Centre like last year. The first address of the lieutenant-governor,  , to the   was simply a renewing of the AAP government’s proclaimed commitment to ensure that every citizen has a right to basic needs of life and that the government must fulfill those requirements.

 The five-day budget session took off with the LG’s address. Last year, the then LG, Najeeb Jung, in his address to the budget session, had sought greater support from the Centre to cater to the needs of the citizens of Delhi. Since Baijal took charge last year on December 31, the equation between the chief minister,  , and the LG has been harmonious. In fact, Baijal has cleared the long-pending proposals of the government related to a hike in minimum wages and opening of mohalla clinics in schools.
 
 The speech this time revolved around the AAP's predictable themes of education, health and pro-poor incentives in power and water among others. Public transport and pollution found space but education and health with water were at the core.
 
 It was evident in the speech that the AAP government had nothing to say in terms of progress made on key promises in its manifesto such as free WiFi, Aam Aadmi Canteen, participatory governance through Swaraj and mohalla sabhas, bolstering of public transport by way of adding to the buses and the city-wide project of installing CCTV cameras for enhancing women’s safety.
 
 The address began by drawing attention of the common man to subsidies being provided in the power and water sectors. The LG’s speech referred to provision of free water up to a monthly consumption of 20 kilolitres while power tariff at reduced rates for domestic consumers up to 400 units per month continues.
 
 Baijal said for inclusive development, his government has identified education as one of the key sectors and that construction of 20 new school buildings has been taken up. He added that around 8,000 additional classrooms were being constructed in various existing schools for improving the student-classroom ratio.
 
 “To upgrade the infrastructure for higher education, construction of new campuses has been initiated for Ambedkar University at Rohini and Dheerpur. The project will be completed by November 2020,” he said.
 
 The government intends to start new ITIs, with phase-II construction of IIT-Delhi likely to be completed by August 2017 which will accommodate an additional 1,400 students, said the LG. The LG pointed out the government’s emphasis on primary health care and its efforts to bring it near to the masses by way of mohalla clinics. He referred to the clinics as “decentralised health reach-out venues”. It was stated that construction of 1,000 mohalla clinics will be completed in the next six months and 122 polyclinics will be completed in the next one year.
 
 Baijal said the government has increased the minimum wages of unskilled workers to Rs 13,350 per month, semi-skilled workers to Rs 14,698 and for those in the skilled category to Rs 16,182 per month.
 
 He said the government has also taken steps to improve the living conditions of people in unauthorised colonies. “The development work in unauthorised colonies is being expedited. For the current financial year, an outlay of Rs 1,456 crore was earmarked for undertaking development in unauthorised colonies. A total of 1,175 unauthorised colonies have been given Delhi Jal Board water connections till date,” he added.
 
 The LG also highlighted that under the new resettlement policy, jhuggi-jhonpri dwellers will be resettled in built-up houses constructed under JNNURM. 
 
 
