Hubballi: The   and police have joined forces to remove illegal hoardings in the twin cities from Wednesday night. Officials from 12 zones removed hundreds of illegal hoardings from Wednesday night and Thursday. 

 “All illegal hoardings at KC Circle, Koppikar Road, Lamington Road, Kamaripet, in Hubballi and Jubilee Circle, Subhas Road in Dharwad were removed. We’ll remove all illegal hoardings in the next couple of days,” Ismailsaheb Shirahatti, deputy commissioner (revenue), HDMC, told TOI.
 
 Many important nooks and corners, circles and junctions in the twin cities have been defaced by flexes, banners and buntings by various companies, political parties and followers of leaders who wish them on their birthdays or other occasions. There was a public outcry over these illegal hoardings, which were not only defacing the city, but also causing traffic problems.
 
 Earlier, there was a lack of coordination between police and HDMC to act against illegal hoardings. Now, HDMC has formed various teams consisting of zonal commissioners, ACPs and other staff to keep a tab on illegal hoardings. Teams will work round the clock and take immediate action against those who erect hoardings, banners, flexes, buntings at restricted places. CCTV footage will be saved to initiate action against persons who erect hoardings at restricted places. There will be no hoardings or flexes in restricted areas. Only in certain areas can flexes be put with permission from HDMC and police.
 
 HDMC commissioner Major   said, “The city has been chosen for the   project. The IIT and IIIT are already functioning and the BRTS project is under way. So, it is our responsibility to keep our city’s beauty intact. The corporation incurs a loss of around Rs 2 crore every year due to illegal hoardings.” 
 
 He added, “We’re taking action under the Karnataka Open Places (Prevention of Disfigurement) Act, 1981 and KMC Act 1976. A person, who erects flexes, banners, buntings at restricted circles, and places, will be fined up to Rs 1,000 with six months’ imprisonment. We’ll make the city free of illegal hoardings in two days and then, we’ll watch these places. If anyone goes against our order, they’ll be dealt with severely.”
 
 People and ad agencies who want to erect hoardings, flexes or banners should obtain permission from the HDMC as per the law and also display the number given by HDMC on their ads or hoardings. 
 
 Police commissioner P H Rane said, “We won’t spare anyone who goes against our orders. An order has been passed and we’ll enforce it strictly. We have already met leaders and elected representatives to convey our message and they’ve given their full support to get tough against illegal hoardings. Our officers will be a part of the HDMC team and they’ll coordinate with them to take immediate action. Before erecting hoardings, they should also get a ‘No Objection Certificate’ from the respective ACPs. After the permission term is over, agencies should remove their flexes or ads on their own. If they fail to do so, they’ll be treated as illegal.”
 
 He added, “We’ll also meet with flex and banner shop owners and instruct them to prepare only those hoardings or flexes which have permission. Otherwise, action will be taken against them for preparing flexes without permission. The identity of persons who informs is about illegal hoardings will be kept secret.”
 
 People can call HDMC control room on 0836-2213898 or 9986468381 to give information about illegal hoardings.
 
 
