Mumbai: Comptroller and auditor-general ( ) reports have pointed out serious flaws in the state’s crop   scheme and has highlighted misreporting of area under insurance in many cases to draw additional payouts.

 In a glaring example in 2015, when the state was reeling under a severe drought, the actual insured area in Parli Vaijnath taluka in Beed district was reported to be 1.11 lakh hectares, when the sowing area was 51,397 hectare, an over 100% inflation in area to draw more money during insurance payouts.
 
 Similarly, the area under Moong that was insured was reported to be 3.4 lakh hectares, while the area that was actually sown was 3.15 lakh hectares; misreporting of 28,800 hectares was seen in this case.
 
 “Clearly, there is no mechanism to cross-check data of sowing maintained by the government and data of insured areas is available with insurance companies, which led to payment of dual or multiple claims to farmers,” reads the report which was tabled in the legislature last Friday.
 
 Verification of records for the audit showed that 129 farmers of three villages in Parli taluka were paid twice or thrice for the same crop, leading to excess claims amounting to Rs 28.87 lakh, while authorities in Beed reported that claims amounting to Rs 77.44 lakh were received, in which 88 farmers had already been paid Rs 27.58 lakh. The state government had disbursed a record Rs 4,205 crore as insurance against damage of crops due to the severe drought in 2015, which had affected more than 26 districts in the state.
 
 TOI too had reported on January 23 about a Rs 58 crore insurance scam in Beed district due to multiple reporting by farmers about crops in more than one bank.
 
 The report also pointed out other problems with the insurance scheme.
 
 The scheme is compulsory for farmers who take loans for farming, but since 2014-16, 87,436 farmers who have availed loans worth Rs 697 crore were not completely insured under the scheme.
 
 The report also mentioned that many automatic weather stations and rain gauges, meant to give information on temperature so that insurance claims can be filed, have been non-operational, making it difficult for insurance claims to be filed and claims to be approved.
 
 
