Chandigarh: Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) started surprise inspections of schools, to check the security measures and other aspects to ensure safety of their students in school. The move has come after the Gurugram incident wherein a class II boy was killed by the school’s bus conductor in the school washroom.

 On Thursday a private and government school were inspected by the commission. During the surprise check, the commission checked the infrastructure of the schools, cleanliness, functioning of CCTV cameras, play area, sports equipment’s, toilets and so on.
 
 The team from the commission including chaiperson Harjinder Kaur and others first checked St Peter School, Sector 37 B, Chandigarh where in everything was found to be in place. The school was advised to fix complaint boxes for students and to check them on daily basis and have separate washroom for the students of junior and senior wing. It was found that the school had put the CCTV cameras in place, which were found functional. The furniture and washrooms were child-friendly and found in good condition. 
 
 Principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 37, Chandigarh was advised to put proper indicators on the washrooms and take the work of minor repairs on priority basis and get police verification of the contract employees/ employees taken on outsourcing basis at the earliest. She was also advised to fix CCTV cameras in the classrooms of pre-nursery, nursery and room for special children.
 
 The school has put in place a public address system, which can be used in case of emergency to inform all the students immediately. The effort was appreciated by the commission. Chairperson, Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights Harjinder Kaur shared that the inspections will continue in all schools.
 
 BOX—Parents Raise Issues
 
 The commission interacted with a few parents who had come to pick up their children outside St. Peter School. While most parents were satisfied with the services being provided by the school, one parent raised an issue that there should be speed breakers on the road in front of the gate to restrict the speed of vehicles plying on the road.
 
 FINDINGS
 
 SCHOOL | St. Peter School
 
 Presence of CCTV in most sensitive areas
 
 Cleanliness in the campus
 
 Furniture were child-friendly
 
 Play area was covered with turf to avoid injuries
 
 SUGGESTIONS |
 
 CCTV in corridors
 
 Complaint box in corridors
 
 Separate washroom for the students of junior and senior wing
 
 SCHOOL | GMSSS 37B
 
 Public address system for emergency
 
 21 CCTV cameras were functional
 
 Clean drinking water area
 
 SUGGESTIONS
 
 Complaint box outside toilets
 
 Advised to put proper indicators on the washrooms
 
 CCTV cameras in primary wing
 
 Take the work of minor repairs on priority
 
 BOX | Comments of Principals
 
 Geeta Kaushik | St Peter’s
 
 Most of the things were in place and the process for installing CCTV cameras in corridors was already initiated. We will soon place the complaint box as suggested by the commission. We have also written to police for speed governors.
 
 Harmeet Kaur | GMSSS 37B
 
 There are certain engineering issues like broken tiles about which we have written to the administration. Also the fencing on the boundary wall is due and the budget for the same has been approved. We have also written for CCTV cameras in the primary wing.
 
 
