PUDUCHERRY: The Puducherry government has selected the Tamil film ' ' as the best film of the year 2016 and will present the best film award to the film's director   during the three-day film festival, 'Indian Panorama 2016', that starts on February 6. 

 Chief minister V Narayanasamy will present the award at the inauguration of the festival at Adlab Jeeva Theatre. The award named after Sankaradass Swamingal, who is considered the father of Tamil theatre, carries a cash prize of 1 lakh and a silver memento. 
 
 Radiopetti is the story of Arunachalam, an old man who finds solace in his past especially when listening to the music of his younger days on a vintage radio set that his father had presented him. One day he is forced to choose between his family and his music. He is torn apart as he knows he will lose one forever. The film narrates what he chooses and whether he survives the sacrifice.
 
 The film will be screened after the festival's inaugural function at 6pm on February 6 at Adlab Jeeva Theatre. The Malayalam film 'Ottaal' directed by Jayaraj will be screened at 6pm on February 7, the Kannada film, 'Nanu Avanalla... Avalu' directed by B S Lingadevaru at 3pm on February 8 followed by the Hindi film 'Anwar Ka Ajab Kissa' directed by Buddhadeb Dasgupta at 6pm on February 8 at Adlab Jeeva Theatre. Entry is free of cost.
 
 The department of information and publicity, Puducherry government has been holding film festivals in coordination with   film society and Alliance Francaise for the last 33 years in the Union territory. The government has been selecting the best films and awarding the directors every year. Last year the government selected Tamil film, ' ' as the best film and awarded director G Bramma.
 
 The directorate of film festivals functioning under Union information and broadcasting ministry selects films for Indian Panorama and screens the films at the international film festival of India (IFFI) held at Goa every year.
 
  Indian Panorama 2016 hosted by the Puducherry government includes films selected by the directorate.
 
 
