HYDERABAD: For one month, no one believed B.Com student Mohammed Sabi when he cried hoarse about being picked up by the police and tortured in custody.

 Three days ago, the   finally broke its silence and admitted before the   ( ) that they had picked up the boy .
 
 Sabi, who is a part-time photographer, was standing outside a function hall after completing a marriage shoot at 3.30 am on December 9 at Champapet when he was picked up. The policemen in plain clothes blindfolded him and took him away . At 11 pm on the same day , they released him near Chanchalguda jail.
 
 Sabi later said that his face was covered for a long time and he was shifted to different places and beaten up, a fact certified by Osmania General Hospital (OGH) doctors. He could not identify which policemen had picked him up, but said they grilled him mercilessly to disclose the whereabouts of his brother, Mohammed Salman, an alleged chain snatcher now in Saudi Arabia.
 
 However, in a report to SHRC, ACP LB Nagar P Venugopal Rao had a different story.He claimed that Sabi was picked up at 3 pm from Chandrapuri colony , LB Nagar, while moving “suspiciously“. “ At 3 pm, Sabi came to LB Nagar witho ut any reason and moved in Chandrapuri colony under suspicious circumstances.   A Subhash Chandra Bose and P Yellaiah caught him. On questioning, he failed to furnish his identity and started to flee. He was immediately taken into custody ,“ he said.
 
 He said that it was only during questioning that the police came to know that Sadi's brother Salman is a chain snatcher. “The investigating officer produced Sadi before deputy collector-cum-tahsidar, Saroornagar mandal, for good behaviour on the same day . The LB Nagar police did not detain Sabi illegally. He was taken into custody legally under Cr.no 13772016 under section 109 of Cr.PC. The allegations raised by the petitioner are false and baseless,“ the ACP claimed.
 
 However, Sabi said that he was tortured. “I was picked up from  . The police was under the impression that my brother is not in Saudi Arabia and we were hiding his whereabouts. Despite telling that Salman is in Saudi Arabia, they beat me.They threatened to frame me in criminal case,“ Sabi said.
 
