NAGPUR: On Friday noon, many people reached  , not to offer prayers, but to find out the fate of a   that was in the way of the  .

 To their pleasant surprise, the concern of nature lovers had prompted the authorities to modify the structural plan of the new temple building. This will probably cost them a few lakhs more than the planned budget. This turned out to be a rare case of not just conservationists prevailing over authorities, but the latter taking the pains to plan holistic development.
 
 Last week, TOI had reported strong opposition from environmentalists and devotees to transplantation of a peepal tree, on which hundreds of parakeets and other birds rest every night. The tree had to be shifted since a column of the new temple building was to be constructed at the spot. However, environmentalists raised a doubt whether the transplantation of such a huge tree would succeed.
 
 After coming to know that the garden department of   (NMC) has granted permission to transplant the tree, members of NGO Green Vigil Foundation, headed by founder Kaustav Chatterjee, sprung into action. A joint survey was held with NMC officials, members of the temple society, and structural engineer DP Mase. After hourlong arguments and deliberations, some solutions were drawn up for consideration.
 
 Friday saw these efforts bearing fruit, with fresh markings made to save the tree. As per the new design, three columns have been shifted. “We have decided to shift the column earlier affecting the tree by 700 millimetres. Now, the tree will not be disturbed, but other major modifications are needed in the building plan,” said Mase.
 
 On shifting this column, another column at the other end was landing up over the existing Bhairavnath temple. “To save this temple, we made more changes and added an extra column. At the rear of temple, we had to shift another column too,” Mase added.
 
 It took him nine days to make all these changes. The original architectural drawing of the new building remains the same. “Development cannot be stopped. But when there is a way out to save such age-old trees, a few extra lakhs are worth it,” Mase said.
 
 The temple, constructed around 1975, has been in a dilapidated state for the last 10 years. The total cost of reconstruction is around Rs10 crore. Cricketing icon Sachin Tendulkar makes it a point to pray at the temple whenever he visits Nagpur.
 
 The decision to save the tree brought smiles to many worried faces — right from the middle-aged man who handles the footwear counter to devotees, and priests and prasad sellers. 
 
 Shriram Kulkarni, secretary of the advisory society of Ganesh temple, has been seeing the tree since it was a sapling. “I have been coming to the temple since I was eight years old; the tree has grown with me. I am happy we could save it,” he said.
 
 For NMC garden superintendent Sudhir Mate, who will be retiring this year, this was a “one of its kind case”. He assured that experts would be roped in to ensure that the roots of the tree are not damaged during excavation work for the new building. 
 
 Among the happy lot were young members of Green Vigil, pleased to save “a tree which is equivalent to 100 saplings”. Team lead Surbhi Jaiswal said, “This is an example of how joint inspections can help find a way to protect the environment. With metro, road concretization and flyovers, the city is developing fast. But it can be done in a sustainable way too.”
 
