KOTTAYAM: Metropolitan   has ruled out the possibility of a solution to end the row between the Orthodox and Jacobite churches based on a   judgement.

 Speaking to reporters here on Monday, the Metropolitan of the Jacobite Church said there was no scope for a union between the two churches.
 
 The Supreme Court had ratified the sanctity of the constitution of the Orthodox Church of 1934, which rejecting the Jacobite faction's plea, demanding the acceptance of an 1913 agreement regarding the ownership of St Peter’s and St Paul’s Church at Kolenchery.
 
 While dismissing the plea, a   said the constitution of the Jacobite faction framed in 2002 was not valid.
 
 Elaborating his view, Mor Coorilos said the churches should be separated in the light of disputes and existing differences in faith and beliefs. While urging to withdraw cases, he said the ownership issue should be settled based on the decision of the majority.
 
 He expressed hope that the issues could be sorted out by mediators outside the court.
 
 The Metropolitan also said that the church take legal recourse in the Kolenchery church case. The church would approach the Supreme Court seeking clarity on its judgement.
 
 The Orthodox Church has the right to demand the implementation of the judgement, he said. In a country like India, judgements in disputes related to faith like Ayodhya could not be practically implemented.
 
 “The government, too, knows that it is difficult to implement, as these issues are based on strong faith and beliefs. That is why the government is trying to settle the dispute,” he said.
 
 The decision of the majority would get more consideration in disputes in a democratic set up, he said while urging the government, mediators and religious leaders to take initiative to hold talks with both groups to end the dispute.
 
 Earlier, responding to the Supreme Court order, Jacobite spokesperson Kuriakose Mor Theophilose Metropolitan had said that it would not be practical to implement the court order ignoring interests of the majority.
 
