New Delhi: Crime mapping, analyses of entry-escape routes and time of occurrence, anti-snatching teams in all police stations, and screening of bikers at barricades are some of the highlights of Delhi Police’s 10-point action plan to curb snatchings.

 Known criminals are being watched, and follow-ups done on them upon their release or bail. Police commissioner Amulya Patnaik wants both men and women personnel in civil dress at markets. He has also asked beat and patrol officers to look for stolen bikes in their areas. For that, a ‘vehicle match’ device would be used to scan bikes. This is being done as stolen bikes have been found to have been used in almost all snatchings. Bikers are being checked for weapons too. 
 
 Six notorious snatchers have been identified for action under stringent MCOCA, say police; 465 others are being watched. 
 
 Delhi Police’s chief spokesperson Dependra Pathak said the force has adopted a scientific and data-backed approach, which has resulted in   cases coming down this year. 
 
 “Under this plan, incidents of crime are analysed and mapped time-wise and area-wise on a daily basis by respective ACPs and DCPs. Possible escape routes for the identified areas are ascertained,” Pathak said. 
 
 Picket timings are changed to surprise criminals. Integrated checks by local police with traffic and PCR staff at pickets are also being conducted. “Halting points for motorcycles & ERVs for checking are fixed. Routes are identified for motorcycle patrolling to cover far flung areas. Checking and briefing of picket staff by SHO, inspector investigation and ATO is done on a daily basis,” Pathak added.
 
 There’s been an emphasis on beat policing too. “Quicker reaction time through increased police presence in an area is being ensured, and focus has been kept on gathering macro intelligence by district police as well as specialised units. There will be regular monitoring of known criminals, especially after they are released on bail or parole,” Pathak added.
 
