CHENNAI: To help farmers in the prevailing drought situation in the state, the   government on Tuesday announced a scheme offering subsidized   to   The programme, under National Horticulture Mission, is aimed at expanding the coverage to 11,250 acres in 22 districts, including   region that is reeling under a water crisis.

 Making a suo motu announcement under Rule 110, chief minister   said the move was to avail less quantum of water and give high yield to generate more income for farmers. “In the current fiscal year, the plan is to help 2,250 farmers. Hybrid seeds and raised seedlings will be distributed to farmers at a 50% subsidy of Rs 8,000 per acre,” he said. Other than the traditional western belt of horticulture like Krishnagiri and Ariyalur, the government plans to bring in more areas under the scheme to benefit the larger population. 
 
 While Tamil Nadu produces 77.72 lakh metric tonnes of vegetables annually, the area under vegetable cultivation will be increased to 3.37 lakh hectares from the present 3.14 lakh hectares. Hybrid vegetable cultivation is promoted by providing assistance to cultivation, and the special focus is given to preserve traditional vegetables. “Predominantly, tomatoes, brinjal, and chillies are the major crop seedlings given to farmers. We motivate them to expand the areas by availing the subsidized seedlings,” said a senior government official. Hybrid vegetable protray seedlings are raised in state horticulture farmers.
 
 Palaniswami announced a scheme to promote solar energy in agriculture. At least 1,000 farmers will get fixed type solar powered pumping systems with 90% subsidy assistance from the state and Centre. “This comes in the wake of huge demand from the farmers, especially in the delta region. The pump sets come in the range of 5HP to 10HP and the programme is being implemented successfully for the last four years,” the official said. Only 203 solar powered pump sets were extended to the farmers last year, with 80% subsidy. 
 
 The state has also planned to set up 597 ‘pack’ houses to add value to the horticulture produce in districts. Similarly, 160 sub-agricultural extension centres will be built, in addition to 146 centres coming up in block level to help farmers get the services of agriculture department, including seeds and micro-nutrients. 
 
 The chief minister said the Centre of Excellence for   will be established in the Tamil Nadu Agriculture University in Coimbatore at an estimated cost of Rs 430 crore, with the preliminary sanction of Rs 51 crore this fiscal year. Adequate infrastructure facilities will be provided in agriculture institutions across the state at a cost of Rs 108 crore. 
 
