KOLKATA: A   of Rs 11 lakh for chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s head, announced by a little-known   member from Aligarh, sent the till-now-aggressive state   scurrying for a face-saver with most leaders denouncing the “reward” on Wednesday. 

  The state BJP’s climbdown comes on a day the party took out a rally to step up the Narada heat on Trinamool, in a seemingly desperate attempt to flow with the momentum it has gained since the Ram Navami celebrations across the state. It, however, wasn’t to be.
 
 BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha said such “an announcement for a bounty for the CM” could not be condoned: “We doubt if he has the credibility to be a BJP Yuva Morcha leader. Such comments cannot be supported. He has made the most jihadi-like statement. We will continue to oppose   on political grounds. But the BJP does not subscribe to the politics of hatred and murder though such extreme comments were made by Trinamool leaders earlier.” State BJP president Dilip Ghosh went a step ahead: “There is no place for such madness in politics. BJP doesn’t support such a statement. This should be condemned.” Even BJP general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, the party’s Bengal minder, said, “We don’t agree with such remarks. There is anger against Mamataji for her appeasement politics, but (we) can’t support violence. We condemn such statements.”
 
 However, BJP MP Roopa Ganguly seems the only party leader not to voice her discontent as she spoke in Rajya Sabha: “I am also a woman. I have been beaten up in front of policemen, beaten up by people, insulted.... For months, I had to be in the bed. I am also a woman and I was beaten up by a mob in Bengal... let them answer this.” This prompted Trinamool MP Nadimul Haq to ask, “Are you endorsing this (statement)?” 
 
 The dispute not only rocked the Parliament but also the social media, with #ThreatToMamata and #MamataBanerjee trending on Twitter for a while. It’s little wonder that the BJP’s rally from Esplanade to Nizan Palace lacked the “desired” sting. Carrying placards, demanding arrest of the “tainted ministers seen on Narada footage”, hundreds of BJP workers marched on the roads and burnt the effigies of the CM and her colleagues. “The tainted ministers should resign immediately as they have lost the rights to be in office. Those caught on camera accepting bribes should be arrested. It is a matter of shame for all,” Ghosh said. The party later submitted a memorandum to governor Keshari Nath Tripathi.
 
 The bounty announcement has also alienated the BJP with all other parties in Bengal gunning for them. “We are against such a cheap statement. It not only propagates violence but also creates an atmosphere of polarisation. Immediate action should be taken against him (BJP Yuva Morcha member),” state Congress president Adhir Chowdhury said. “This is completely barbaric and uncivilised,” said Left legislative party leader Sujan Chakraborty. “Several attempts have been made on Mamata Banerjee’s life since 1990s. We have been through 34 years of CPM’s violent rule. Such statements are against the political culture of the country. I ask the Centre to arrest this man. We don’t want 70s politics to return,” said parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee.
 
 
