GURUGRAM: These days, residents of Sector 56 societies like Hewo 1, Smriti and  , are finding it difficult to breathe. 

 The air in the area is heavy with dust, thrown up by an ongoing Huda project, for which a sprawling open ground across these societies is being dug up. What compounds the problem, health experts said, is the windy weather, which whips up giant clouds of dust.
 
 Residents told TOI they wake up to find fine dust particles accumulated on their window sills, carpets and furniture that had been cleaned the day before. “Gurgaon’s air pollution is a well known problem. But those who live close to this site are more susceptible,” said Shilpa, a resident of Alaknanda in Sector 56. “We live in close proximity of the construction site and inhale this polluted air daily.”
 
 Residents said the construction, ostensibly for a gymkhana and park, has been going on for about a year. “Till last year, the site was a marshy grassland,” said Prashant Yadav, another resident. “They levelled it and started digging. Now, trucks and lorries roam around the site 24 hours.”
 
 Other residents said earth was being dug out and transported by trucks to be offloaded on the site’s fringes, which are nearer to their societies. “They create a mound of loose soil as tall as a one-storey building,” Prashant said. “It’s abandoned for some days, before the earth is used elsewhere on the site.”
 
 The mound is currently spread across 5 acres, claimed residents. “It directly affects over 200 households in Hewo 1, Smriti and Alaknanda apartments.” The problem was compounded by brisk winds this winter. “When the wind starts blowing, we can barely see beyond two meters,” said  , another Alaknanda resident.
 
 The area is hardly a mile off AIT Square. Residents insist Huda has been brazenly violating NGT norms for the construction, as there are no arrangements to contain the dust.
 
 Environmentalists said this has become Gurgaon’s defining feature. Environmentalist Vivek   said, “Dust is everywhere along Golf Course Road and other areas where major projects are being developed, and it violates NGT norms.” He added authorities are also supposed to hose the dug soil with water at regular intervals to ensure it doesn’t get blown away.
 
 Sector 56 residents assured TOI they have never seen a sprinkler on action. “It never happened,” Prashant said. “In fact, activities are often carried out during night, creating so much noise we can’t get any sleep.”
 
 Doctors told TOI fine dust particles also integrate with diesel exhaust and stay suspended in the air. “People don’t know when they inhale it,” said Dr  , a health specialist. “One of the dangerous elements in diesel exhaust is the carcinogenic benzene, which sticks to dust particles. It’s not just dust we’re inhaling, but also poison, which will affect us later.” Kamboj told TOI he’s planning to write to authorities over the issue. “If the problem persists, I might just take it to NGT,” he said. 
 
 Two years ago, NGT had rolled out strict guidelines for construction sites across India. It directed every builder to put tarpaulin sheets around the construction area and said no person, including builder and owner, would be permitted to throw construction material, particularly sand, on roads. “Dust emission from construction sites will be completely controlled by authorities, and vehicles used for transporting building material shall be properly cleaned before they are permitted to ply on the roads,” the court had said.
 
 Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav could not be contacted by TOI for comment, despite repeated attempts.
 
 
