INDORE: Despite   and   regarding auto rickshaws parking just outside the entrance of the city’s  , passengers continue to be inconvenienced as they find it hard to enter the railway station.

 The situation near Gate No.1 is the worst in the station where the ticket counters and inquiry counters are located.
 
 The   of Ratlam, Manoj Sharma, had also issued instructions to take strict action against vehicles that are parked illegally in the area, but the condition seems to have not seen any improvement.
 
 “How can authorities allow people to park their vehicles especially auto rickshaws at the entrance of the railway station?” asked  , a passenger. Mahant, who hails from Bihar, works at a private firm in Dewas and commutes through Indore railway station regularly.
 
 Several other people also raised questions over parking arrangements. They said it has been causing a lot of problems to visitors. “These auto drivers even park their vehicles inside the entrance gate, while no one looks into the problem,” said another passenger.
 
 One station official said that the parking space inside the entrance gate is meant for vehicles of railway staff members only. But drivers of auto rickshaws and private vehicles park over here according to their whim and fancy.
 
 “They enter the entrance and park their vehicles there, leaving no space for the vehicles of staff members,” he said.
 
 The front of the station is always chaotic with haphazard parking by private vehicles and illegal auto stands by auto rickshaw drivers. All this illegal activity is carried out right under prominent no parking boards, exposing the station authorities’ failure to control the parking menace in this area.
 
 Locals and commuters expressed that it was the negligent attitude of authorities that has led to this becoming a major problem in the railway station.
 
 Indore: Despite regular complaints and strict instructions regarding inconsiderate parking of auto rickshaws just outside the entrance of city railway station is causing a lot of inconvenience to passengers. They are finding it difficult to enter the railway station. The situation is worst near Gate No.1 of the station where the ticket counters and inquiry counters are located. 
 
 The divisional railway manager of Ratlam Manoj Sharma had also issued instructions to take strict action against vehicles that are illegal parked in the area, but the condition seems to have not seen any improvement. 
 
 “How can authorities allow people to park their vehicles especially auto rickshaws at the entrance of the Railway Station?,” said Manish Mahant, a passenger. Mahant, who hails from Bihar, work at a private firm in Dewas and pass through Indore railway station regularly. 
 
 Several other people also raised questions over parking arrangements. They said that it has been causing a lot of problem to visitors. “These auto drivers even park their vehicles inside the entrance gate, while no one looks into the problem,” said another passenger. 
 
 A station official on condition of anonymity said that the parking space inside the entrance gate is meant for vehicles of railway staff. But auto rickshaws as well as private vehicles park their own whims and fancies. “They enter inside the entrance and park their vehicles there, leaving no space for the vehicles of staff,” he said. 
 
 The front of the station is always chaotic with haphazard parking by private vehicles and illegal auto stand by auto rickshaw drivers. All this parking is done under the nose of a couple of No Parking Boards exposing the failure of station authorities to control parking menace in this area. Locals and commuters expressed that it was the negligent attitude of the authorities that this has become a major problem of the railway station. 
 
 Nikhil Thada, Student – The parking problem is due to the fact that there is limited parking space near the station and more of vehicles which led to people ark their vehicles in whatever open space that they get. 
 
 Om Nagar, Professional – The menace is not just limited inside the entrance, vehicles especially buses and auto rickshaws are also parked just outside the station. It causes a lot of problem to passengers and visitors as well. 
 
 Hatim Ali Anant, Businessman – Authorities should bar the entry of all type of vehicles. Though there is a designated space for parking, but these auto rickshaws are not forced to use the space for parking. 
 
 Pinky Raikwar, Student – Authorities make rule, it is completely violated by auto rickshaw and private vehicles. This leaves very low space for commuters, and sometime they even miss their trains. 
 
