PITHORAGARH: National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has started a ‘Krishi Jal’ campaign for water conservation and water resource mapping in 1,000 villages of Pithoragarh and Champawat districts.
 
 A two-day workshop organised for ‘jal doots’ (volunteers) with the help of an NGO, Nidhi, on methodology to collect data and how to sensitise villagers about water conservation completed on Sunday. And, jal doots launched campaign in both districts from Monday, which would end on July 2.
  
  The programme is mainly aimed at agricultural water or farm water, because agriculture consume nearly 78% of total water available, while just 8% is used as potable water, whereas industries consume 10% water, but water productivity is very low in the agriculture sector, according to the NITI Aayog.
  
  NABARD, district development manager, Pithoragarh, Puneet Nagar said, “Of the total 78% water, agriculture requires only 23.4%, which means the rest 76.6% goes waste. So, if we save farm water using different methods of irrigation, we can irrigate more agriculture land.”
  
  The campaign aims at dissemination of knowledge among farmers about saving farm water, improving productivity, increasing area under irrigation, increasing forest cover, promoting farmers’ income, and preventing migration.
  
  As many as 20 teams comprising two jal doots each have ben constituted for Champawat and Pithoragarh districts. The teams will cover 25 villages each and report through ‘Krishi Jal Doot’ app.
  
  Under the campaign jal doots will go to villages to sensitise farmers about water conservation, water recharge and water management, told  , convener of Nidhi.
  
  Jal doots would spend a day in a village, and hold meetings with youth volunteers, panchayat member, women of self-help groups and farmers to carry out water resource mapping and organise ‘Krishi Jal sambad’, an event open to all villagers where entire programme would be monitored through the app,” added Pande.
  
  
  Simultaneous campaigns have been launched in 4,000 villages of eight districts — Chamoli, Rudraprayag, New Tehri, Uttarkashi, Bageswar, Almora Pithoragarh and Champawat in Uttarakhand. These districts were selected on the basis of rain-fed area priority index.
