GURUGRAM: Since it came to power in 2014, the BJP government may not have been able to materialise a single new Metro line, but this has not stopped it from making more ambitious public transport plans. 

 After announcing that it will connect the railway station in old   with Huda City Centre by pod taxi, chief minister   on Tuesday announced the setting up of an Automated Guideway Transit System (AGTS) in the city.
 
 At a meeting in Delhi on Tuesday, Khattar was briefed by a Japanese delegation, which claimed that this system had been successfully introduced in several countries and was considered a better option to the Metro, as the cost of construction and operation was considerably lower.
 
 Talking to TOI, cabinet minister and  , who was present at the meeting, said the AGTS will be similar to the Metro. “Initially, we’ve asked the Japanese company,  , to conduct a feasibility study on two routes for this system. The first route will be Dwarka to Iffco Chowk; the second, Iffco Chowk to Gurgaon railway station. This system will be economical and cheaper than the conventional Metro. For example, if a Metro line requires Rs 400 crore per km to build, the AGTS can be built for Rs 240 crore,” he said.
 
 “The best part is, the Japanese company will bear the entire investment, and only charge the Haryana government interest from the 10th year after the system is made operational. The entire cost of the project and other details, like the exact route, number of passengers expected and period of construction, will be determined in the next few months, after the detailed project report is presented by the company,” he said.
 
 In the meeting, the chief minister reiterated his commitment to provide quality high-speed transport systems to the people of Haryana. He also asked his officials to get studies conducted to explore possibilities of introducing the AGTS in other parts of Gurgaon, as well as in Karnal and Faridabad. 
 
 Initially, the   link was supposed to be constructed as a Metro line by  . It had even submitted a detailed project report to the Haryana government, but Khattar has expressed his reservations regarding the route and the number of commuters it will attract, and has so far not approved it.
 
