About a few years ago, Polish artist   was in her kitchen when a thought suddenly struck her. ‘What might be people in places that are conflict-inflicted, war prone or do not have enough food surviving on?’ Her thoughts led her towards a new project named Starvation Cookbook, a series of recipes that aren’t like anything you might ever get to taste, unless thrown into a situation of extreme living conditions. Karolina, who was recently at  , staged her performance ‘Hunger is/isn’t an object,’ documenting 14 instances of extreme starvation from across the world.

 Bread baked out of bark flour, cookies from mud, potato peels, black sugar, grass and water mixed with petrol, jelly made from carpenter’s glue, water and salt soup eaten by residents in Syria... the taste of all these dishes are unique, as they represent hunger. ‘Their purpose is not nourishment, but survival. And, a lot of people on famine belts and warzones in our world survive on them on a daily basis,” says Karolina.
 
 Ask her what prompted her into taking up such a project and she says, ‘’Probably my interest in cooking. This thought struck me especially at a time when I was going through a phase in which I wasn’t happy enjoying the space of an artist. I found respite in cooking, and exploring various recipes. On one such day, a thought about people who are famished, especially in areas where hunger is artificially created through wars and conflicts, struck me and I began my research on it. Starvation Cookbook is the result of the same,” she says.
 
 According to her, what makes all human being equal is the fact that we have to consume our daily share of food for survival. An empty plate can reflect problems around the world quite well, she says. “My project explores the condition of extreme hunger, the political or economic reasons for it and the survival mechanisms and sustenance measures adopted by local communities. It is something you can find everywhere. For example, if you go to a fancy Indian restaurant in London, you might find the most top quality dish — but the country would definitely have some unique recipes which the poor there would have been surviving on, for years together. For instance, take the case of kanji — which is quite tasty for a change and helped many in Bengal and Kerala survive at hard times,” she says.
 
 With Starvation Cookbook, Karolina hopes to reveal the bitter differences between the taste of war, collectivization and inflation. ‘’It will get us closer to a notion of what the ‘world food’ really means,’’ she signs off.
 
