HYDERABAD: More number of youngsters are now suffering from high blood pressure in Hyderabad. City doctors attribute the spurt in hypertension or high blood pressure cases to job and education related stress. Change in daily pattern due to different working hours is also responsible for hypertension in youths.

 One in three patients visiting hospitals suffer from high blood pressure, which is very dangerous.
 
 A decade ago, hypertension was largely a disease of the middle aged and the elderly . Now the problem is noticed in people in their 20s.
 
 “We have observed a new anomaly in the city. More and more young individuals are becoming hypertensive, especially with job-related stress, day-night work imbalances and diurnal (daily) variation patterns. Labile (borderline) hypertension is also observed more frequently in young individuals,“ said Dr Sreenivas Kumar A, chairman of the department of cardiovascular sciences, Citizens Specialty Hospital, Hyderabad.
 
 Referring to the data on hypertension cases in the city, Dr Sreenivas Kumar said a recent survey conducted in a health checkup camp as part of the national blood pressure check programme by the   revealed that the incidence of high blood pressure has increased. About 35 percent of patients visiting hospitals have high blood pressure. 
 
 According to Dr Shiva Raju, senior consultant physician and diabetologist,  , even college and university students have been affected by stress and hypertension. 
 
 “Today, youngsters, mostly students and working class are severely hit by stress. Those in their twenties and thirties surge well in their career. But they are in the grip of stress for various reasons. Success, fear of career, competition, timelines, all these are taking a toll on youngsters. The result being hypertension,“ he said. 
 
 Doctors also blame unhealthy diet and lifestyle changes as a result of this. Lack of exercise or physical activity is also said to be responsible for increase in hypertension cases in youngsters.
 
 Dr Shiva Raju said smoking, drinking and irregular sleep habits coupled with fast food culture are complicating the problem. “Hypertension does not have any specific symptoms. It is a silent killer. Regular checkup will keep the problem under check,“ he suggested.
 
 Dr T Sashikanth, senior cardiologist at Yashoda Hospital, Secunderabad, said that high blood pressure is responsible for a number of health complications including clot in the brain, cardiac arrest and kidney failure.
 
 “In the initial stages, hypertension does not show any symptoms. But when the problem becomes severe, symptoms like headaches, sleepiness, palpitation, blurred vision, confusion and irregular heartbeat are noticed. In severe cases, it could also result in coma,“ warned Dr Sashikanth.
 
 He suggested that hypertension can be prevented or kept under check if one adopts a healthy lifestyle and leads a stress-free life. Dr Sashikanth said that one should avoid smoking and alcohol and consume limited quantity of common salt. He also advised youngsters to eat food low in fat, high in fibre, fruits and vegetables along with regular excercise.
 
 The World Health Organisation (WHO) has warned that the higher the blood pressure, the higher is the risk of damage to the heart and blood vessels in the brain and kidneys. 
 
 “Hypertension is the most important preventable cause of heart disease and stroke worldwide. If left uncontrolled, hypertension can lead to a heart attack, an enlargement of the heart and eventually heart failure,“ a WHO statement added.
 
