VADODARA: November 8, the day Prime Minister   announced demonetization of currency notes, will go down in the history of the country as ‘Asian Games moment’. 

 This is what  , a telecommunications professional, who along with technocrat Sam Pitroda had patented the digital wallet concept in 1994, said here on Thursday. 
 
 Chicago-born Desai, who did his schooling in Navrachana School, Sama was in the city as guest of honour at the golden jubilee celebrations of the school, which were flagged off by Gujarat governor O P Kohli on Thursday evening at the school ground. 
 
 Desai, who along with Pitroda, had co-founded C-SAM Inc, a global technology provider for secure transaction solutions, which was later acquired by MasterCard worldwide in 2014, said cashless movement will have immeasurable impact on the socio-economic front in the country. “In 1982, when India was gearing up for Asian Games, a colourful spectacle, most of the country was in the danger of seeing it in shades of black and white until the Union government changed the way people saw television forever. According to me, demonetization is ‘Asian Games’ moment for the country,” said Desai.
 
 “In five years time, 500 to 700 million Indians will be transacting electronically which is historic. India has an opportunity to become a global reference as there is no other example where such a huge population will move towards electronic transactions,” said Desai, who along with Pitroda has co-authored ‘The March of Mobile Money: The Future of Lifestyle Management’. Just last year, Desai authored ‘August of Money: The Quest for Cashless Society’ was published. 
 
 Desai opined that the country will have to strengthen consumer protection at every level. “There will be frauds but security will have to be beefed up at every level. All over the world, systematic frauds happen due to a weak link,” said Desai, whose firm had developed mobile ticketing system for Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation of Indian Railways. 
 
