VADODARA: Hundreds of parents covering almost all major private schools of the city on Sunday demanded that the state government should direct the school managements to collect fees as capped by the Gujarat self-finance schools (Regulations of Fees Act, 2017) recently passed by the Gujarat assembly.

 This is the first time that parents of all the prominent schools of the city, who were earlier making scattered representations, gathered under one roof. They met at band stand of Kamatibaug garden to raise their voice against exorbitant fees charged by the school managements. Through the Act, fees of primary schools has been capped at Rs 15,000, that of secondary level at Rs 25,000 and for higher secondary level it is Rs 27,000.
 
 Even as state education minister   has recently issued a circular through which the schools have been directed to collect fees of only first three months and that too based on the fee structure of last year till fee regulatory committee is formed, a majority of parents said that the school managements should be directed to collect only capped fees. 
 
 Also, majority of them opined that every school should form parents association and fees should be decided only after taking parents into confidence. 
 
 “It is clear that the Act is in favour of the parents. But more clarity is required from the state government and more transparency is expected from school managements,” said  , whose ward is enrolled in Prince   School. The government clarification hasn’t help clear confusion of parents as there are some schools which charge the fees on six monthly basis while there are others which charge fees under separate heads. 
 
 “Our school management charges annual fees per annum apart from tuition fees which is collected in every quarter. What are we supposed to pay?,” said a parent of  .
 
 A parent of Navrachana International School, Vadodara alleged that the school management had made mockery of Sunday’s meeting at Kamatibaug of which messages had gone viral on social media. 
 
 “On Saturday, we were told that we will have to pay fees as demanded by the management. Within hours, the state education minister issued a circular which at least for the time being goes in favour of the school management” she said. 
 
