TNN

 Mumbai: The country’s largest lender   ( ) has reported a 134% jump in net profit for the quarter ended December 2016, to Rs 2,619 crore from Rs 1,115 crore in the corresponding period in the previous year. The profits were boosted by a jump in gains from sales of bonds. 
 
 This is the first time in five quarters that the Arundhati Bhattacharya-led   has reported a rise in profits. Part of the reason for this was the lower profits in the corresponding quarter of previous year as the bank made provisions for bad debt. The last time the bank posted a year-on-year rise in its quarterly profit was in the three months ended September 2015.
 
 Announcing the results on Friday, SBI chairman Bhattacharya said that the bank had seen a slowdown in lending on account of demonetisation, as it also delayed loan resolution by a quarter as the bank was not able to pursue defaulters. However, the surge of low-cost deposits with the   system brought down interest rates sharply and enabled the bank to make large profits by selling high yielding bonds at a profit. Among other developments, Bhattacharya said that the bank was ready for a merger of its associate banks but the process was delayed by a quarter due to   and would now take place in the first quarter of FY18. The bank was in an advanced stage of bringing in new partners into its credit card venture where its earlier partner GE Capital has decided to exit. SBI’s life insurance partner Cardif (a part of France’s BNP Paribas group) has decided not to exercise its option to hike stake in the life venture to 49% from 26% at present.
 
 Bhattacharya said that the life insurance joint venture’s decision was based on the view that since the intention was to go public, there was limited upside for the foreign partner in hiking its stake.
 
 While bad loans continued to be high, the good news was that the bank’s watch list, representing loans likely to go bad, declined 31% in the third quarter of FY17. Bhattacharya said that the bank was focusing on asset quality and there was a marked shift in lending towards retail with home loan and auto loan recording the fastest growth. The bank’s home loans have crossed Rs 2.12 lakh crore during the quarter, growing 18% year-on-year. Auto loans have grown 20% to Rs 44,536 crore.
 
 
