For all the well-intentioned noises made about women's safety, when Noida's   was struggling with a snatcher in broad daylight on a busy road, the crowd just stood and watched. On Monday, the 20-year-old architecture student was chased by two men on a bike, who tried to snatch her purse as she was walking home in Sector 39. She did not let her bag go even as one of the bikers hit her with a helmet, and bravely kicked and hit them back. However, when the attacker pointed a 'gun-like weapon' at her, as per reports, she let the purse go. 

  
  
 
  An indignant Twinkle spoke to NT at her home on Tuesday, saying that the large crowd merely watched, even though she shouted to raise an alarm. Not intimated in the least, she says that without the gun, her kickboxing training would have helped her beat her attackers, and that she's going to learn martial arts now.
 
 
 The incident that Twinkle describes took place at about 1.45pm on Monday near the City Centre Metro station, after she got down from a bus. "It was a busy afternoon and I'd returned from Greater Noida after giving an exam. I was walking in the service lane that leads to my house. I was tired and was waiting to get home, eat and prepare for the next exam. I saw two bikers coming towards me, looking at me weirdly. One of them got down from the bike and started walking towards me. Scared, I started running in the direction of the Metro station, but dropped my bag. He tried to snatch my bag up, but I couldn't give it up so easily. Jab usse laga ki yeh give up nahin kar rahi hai and I tightened my grip, he took off his helmet and started hitting me on the head with it. I didn't give up my bag even then, and started kicking and beating him back. Finally, he realized he couldn't do anything more and he needed the bag, so he took out a gun. Tab main risk nahin le sakti thi. I gave up then. Marna thodi hai kisi ko."
 
  
  The busy stretch near the City Centre Metro station where Twinkle Arora was attacked and robbed
 
 
 
 Twinkle said that she'd learnt kickboxing earlier, and it gave her the confidence to fight back in this situation. "Agar meri jagah koi aur ladki hoti toh shayad kuch nahin kar pati. Mujhe dukh iss baat ka hai ki mujhe kickboxing seekhne ke bawajood give up karna pada. Maine usse bahut mara par gun ke aage kuch nahin kar payi. My confidence was shaken."
 
  
  
 
 
 
 "It was a busy road – there are also many cars parked there usually. I shouted for help and screamed 'chor, chor', but no one came forward," Twinkle recounts. "I couldn't grasp what was happening to me initially and needed help. If only a few people had come forward, the bikers would have been caught. The snatcher left his helmet behind and when they fled, I saw the bike number, but I don’t remember it clearly."
 
  
  
 
  
 "The bag that they took away had everything – my tablet, phone, admit card, Aadhaar card, credit and debit cards, passport-sized photos, cash, notebooks, notes and college ID card. I borrowed a phone from someone from the crowd and called my parents. They came quite soon, but the police came after about 30-45 minutes. I just thought, mera struggle karne ka koi fayda toh nahin hua na. When the police came, random strangers told them this happened and that happened and they tried to help – everyone wanted to take credit – but at the time of the incident, all of them remained mute spectators."
 
  
  Twinkle (L) at home on Tuesday with her sister Priyanka (BCCL/ Lokesh Kashyap)
 
 
 An angry Twinkle says she's never been one to be intimidated easily. "Bachpan se hi main bahut bindaas hoon. I have a never-give-up attitude. I had learnt kickboxing and had done some body building. Aur jo bhi maine seekha tha, uski wajah se I was beating him relentlessly. But usne gun nikaal li. Agar gun nahin nikalta toh pit jaata woh. Usse bas gun ki wajah se chhoda maine. Dukh issi baat ka hai ki itna seekhne ke baad jaane diya. Ab realise ho gaya hai ki I need to learn more. I will learn martial arts now."
 
  
  
 
  In the struggle, Twinkle sustained several injuries, including a slight fracture to her head and wounds on her knees and fingers. But she insists, "No girl is weak. If girls learn self-defence, they will develop a different kind of confidence to fight things like this. Of course, a gun scares us all. But these skills help."
 
  
  
 
  
 Twinkle says that this could happen anywhere, and wonders why she hears that 'UP mein aise incidents hote hain'. "I thought I was living in such a nice colony with ample guards and security, and nothing would happen to me. I have heard of such things happening to others, but never imagined it would happen to me. Laga tha safe hain hum. The police needs to do more. It's such a busy spot, a constable should have been there. These incidents happen everywhere, but UP gets targeted because the administration here is not proactive. This mentality needs to change. The way things function needs to change."
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
