BENGALURU: Internationally-renowned space scientist   passed away early Monday, leaving the Indian Space Research Organisation ( ) bereft of the experience of a man who has been a part of all its launches in one capacity or another. He was 85.

 Rao, who breathed his last at about 2.30am, was hospitalised earlier this year with a heart ailment. 
 
 The former Isro chief was serving as the chairman of the governing council of the physical research laboratory and the chancellor of the Indian Institute of Science and Technology at Thiruvananthapuram.
 
 Rao has held several top positions over the years, including at foreign universities. He has won 10 international awards and many national awards.
 
 After Satish Dhawan, he served as the chairman of Isro for about 10 years between 1984-1994. 
 
 Born in Adampur village in Udupi, Rao has continuously been associated with India’s space programme working with people like MGK Menon (who recently passed away), Satish Dhawan and Vikram Sarabhai.
 
 From Aryabhatta to the Mars Orbiter Mission, Rao has continued to work with the space agency on several of its projects. Senior scientists have told TOI that his domain expertise and ability to stay up-to-date with technological advancements is unrivaled.
 
 In January this year, he was conferred the Padma Vibhushan. Interestingly, Rao had one said: “I thought I will get this (Padma Vibhushan) posthumously ..."
 
 Among other positions that Rao has held, he is remembered for his tenure at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). In May 2016, Rao became the first Indian to be given the ‘Hall of Fame’ award by the International Astronautical Federation (IAF). 
 
 He has published more than 350 scientific and technical papers covering cosmic rays, interplanetary physics, high energy astronomy, space applications and satellite and rocket technology and authored many books. 
 
 He is also the recipient of D.Sc (Hon. Causa) Degree from over 25 universities, including the University of Bologna, the oldest University in Europe.
 
 
 
 
