'  2' writers   and Rhett Reese have talked about the possibility of Deadpool/Wolverine crossover, saying "actor   is trying hard to make it happen". 

 Reynolds, 40, who portrayed the antihero 'Deadpool' in the 2016 superhero film, has often expressed his enthusiasm to collaborate with his longtime friend and actor  , known for his long-running role as   in 'X-Men' film series. 
 
  
  
 The writer duo has now suggested that 'Deadpool' and Wolverine can actually share screen in a brand new project. "It would be amazing to have Hugh resurrect Wolverine in the 'Deadpool' universe," said Wernick. 
 
 "And again, Ryan's making a hard push to make that happen, and hopefully the public gets behind it and we can all convince Hugh to put the claws on one more time." However, Reese later explained that creating the crossover can be tricky. 
 
 Considering 'Deadpool 2' will possibly be followed with 'Deadpool 3' and 'X-Force', he wonders whether Deadpool/Wolverine movie has a room amid the packed schedules. "If you're looking at 'Deadpool 2', if you're looking at 'X-Force', if you're looking at 'Deadpool 3', there's not necessarily room for (another) team-up movie. I think it does create real scheduling and universe issues and something that could be ironed out, but it would need to be ironed out," said Reese. 
 
 He added, "I don't think any of us operated under the assumption that it would be even possible to do a Deadpool/Wolverine thing, so we just haven't planned for it, it's still not in the plan, but if it were to happen, it would require a hard look at the overall architecture of our storylines." 
 
 When asked about the Deadpool/Wolverine rumour in ' ', Reese said, "Yeah, that's not happening. The tones are just too different." "I'm not sure exactly where that rumour came from, but Hugh and Ryan are really close and they really do want to work together and they really do want to see these characters come together, so in the long run, that rumour could become true-that they're in a movie together, but it's just not 'Logan'." 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
