BHOPAL: In another tiger death in state, a tigress was found dead under mysterious circumstances in Balaghat district on Saturday. With this, the tiger toll in MP in the last 14 months has gone up to 43. Since January 2017, the state has lost 13 tigers.

 Sources said the big cat was electrocuted and some of its body parts are missing. Chief wildlife warden Jitendra Agrawal was not available for his version.
 
 The tigress was found near Khairlanji area of Balaghat south division and the body was in a decomposed stage. Sources said this tigress dominated the region for the last two years.
 
 Balaghat has witnessed five tiger deaths in a small span.
 
 Madhya Pradesh government was planning to start two tiger safaris in this ‘Red Corridor’. A proposal for starting tiger safaris in Longur and Sonewali areas of the Maoist-infested Balaghat district was sent to the competent authorities a few months ago. Balaghat is one of the non-protected areas falling in Kanha-Pench corridor where density of tigers and prey is comparatively high.
 
 Balaghat is one of the World Wildlife Fund – India (WWF-I) TX2 (Tigers x 2) sites that aims at doubling the number of tigers in the wild by 2020. The killing of three tigers and an equal number of leopards for ‘black magic’ in and around Balaghat district in the past few months has come as a jolt to the joint campaign of WWF-I and state forest department to raise the big cat population. WWF has chosen 12 places to focus its resources.
 
 The WWF project includes building capacity for frontline forest staff in terms of training and infrastructure besides working with the local communities to reduce pressure on forest. Sources said that the best site for tiger conservation is the compact forest blocks of Balaghat.
 
 However, there are some issues. “There is a narrow gauge railway line passing through important linkages,” said a forest officer while adding that frequent Maoist movement is another problem in the area.
 
 WWF has installed cameras in southern   and captured movements of more than 12 tigers in the past few months.
 
 However, they had not been able to enter the district’s northern region following threats from Maoists of Tanda-Malajkhand Dalam who frequent the northern Balaghat area and use it as a transit point to enter neighbouring states in the ‘Red Corridor’.
 
