DEHRADUN: A group of eminent persons are running a   via WhatsApp to appeal to people to not feed the   as they have often attacked the commuters and two-wheeler riders. 

 They opined that people who feed stray dogs need to pay the medical bills of those who are badly bitten by the pack of dogs "mushrooming in the streets or they should adapt these stray dogs." 
 
 These citizens have stood in support of an army officer against whom an NGO of animal activists have filed FIR for killing three dogs in town in his self defence.
 
 Soumya Prasad, professor at Jawahar Lal Nehru University who has home in Dehradun said, "The stray dogs being territorial animals occupy the area where they are fed . They also breed robustly after every three months. Such dogs create menace for people living in the area and are more aggressive towards the softer targets such as old persons, children and women."
 
 She further said, "Those who feed should take complete responsibility for their action and compassion should not end at feeding stray animals. Either they should adapt the stray dogs as I have done or the local authorities must charge them a fee to pay for the medical expenses of collateral damage caused by this action."
 
 Last year, chief justice G.Rohini of Delhi high court in a plea filed by Om Prakash Saini , resident of Malviya Nagar on stray dog menace had passed the remark , "It was rather strange that people feed stray dogs and allow them within the common area of a society, causing nuisance and inconvenience to others. If you have a pet and you are feeding it, it is ok. But if you feeding stray dogs and they are causing inconvenience to others, it is not good."
 
 Smita Nair, researcher on elephants said, "It has become difficult to walk around my house in cantonment where several dogs chasing female or bitches with their puppies scare people away."
 
 Beena Sharma, businesswoman said that how a pack of dogs just attacked his son riding pillion on a motorbike with her husband while being taken to school in Dalanwala area. The child had to go under severe medication.
 
 Suggesting viable solution, Sanjiv Shrivastava, who runs Vipashana centre in Dehradun said, "We Indians will never accept the strong measures adopted by many countries like culling to minimize the dogs' population but we can certainly opt for softer options such as castration of all male dogs within a short span. In ten years, their population will get stabilized at small number."
 
