KOCHI: Even while the agreement between   Ltd (KMRL) and   (DMRC) on construction of Metro rail along  , the land acquisition for the project along   may be  .

 The revenue authorities who are to take over the land for the project has just entrusted an agency to complete social impact assessment (SIA) study, which is mandatory as per the new Land Acquisition (LA) Act which came into force on January 1, 2014.
 
 As the state government failed to frame rules as part of the new LA Act, introduced by the Union government, the land acquisition process for different development projects had been in limbo. 
 
 “The state government later framed the rules as part of new Act in November 2016. Then we resumed land acquisition procedures for the Metro which had been put on hold for the past several months,” said a revenue official.
 
 “Now, we have awarded the work to an agency. As per the act, it can take up to six months to complete the SIA study. But we have requested the agency to complete the study in three months,” said district collector K Mohammed Y Safirulla.
 
 As per the new act, the project can chug off only if it is feasible as per the study. 
 
 “If it is not feasible, the project can’t take off,” the official said. 
 
 The agency, which is entrusted with the duty of conducting the SIA study, should hold discussion with all stakeholders, including landowners. 
 
 On the basis of SIA, the government will have to prepare rehabilitation and resettlement package for landowners as well as those who lose their jobs or means of life due to the project.
 
 Last week, the revenue department issued 6(1) notification (the mandatory notice to inform landowners about the government decision to take over their holdings) for acquiring land for Metro extension to Kakkanad. The revenue department will have to conduct SIA study for Kakkanad extension too.
 
 Though the revenue department acquired a number of holdings through direct purchase scheme and old LA Act, the standoff between landowners and other authorities regarding the value of land had forced to stop the acquisition.
 
 Meanwhile, chief secretary has convened a meeting of state-level empowered committee (SLEC) which is to give approval for the land value fixed by district-level purchase committee (DLPC) for holdings taken over for Metro almost two years ago.
 
 The DLPC headed by district collector would fix the land value through negotiation. Then, the SLEC headed by chief secretary will have to give nod for the price fixed by the DLPC. 
 
