NAGPUR: Complaints against various banks are rising at an alarming level. An RTI query by Abhay Kolarkar revealed that   (RBI) received over 1.12 lakh complaints between January 1 and December 31 last year. It’s a jump of 36,530 as compared to 2014. Figures for 2015 were not available, also unavailable were separate figures for the post-demonetisation period.

 The country’s largest bank — State Bank of India — leads the chart in complaints (26,446) received too, followed by private banking behemoths like   at 8,862, ICICI at 8,818 and Axis at 5,635.
 
 Kolarkar said banking is one of the fastest growing sectors in the country, and has undergone a major revolution in the last few years. As banking access and need have increased, complaints too have witnessed a steep jump, particularly regarding deficiency in services.
 
 The complaints against banks are lodged with about 15 banking ombudsmen, whose offices were mostly located in state capitals. Apart from nationalized banks like  , a host of cooperative, private and even international banks, including HSBC and  , are included in the long list provided by the apex bank. Even the city headquartered   finds mention in the list.
 
 Kolarkar added that the complaints were basically related to default or delay in cheques and drafts collection or issuance, violation of RBI directives, levying charges without prior notice, refusal to open savings accounts, non-disbursement or delay in pension, closure of accounts without notice, and delays in sanctioning or disbursement of loans.
 
 However, the reply by apex bank’s central public information officer Arun Pasricha stated that it didn’t have separate figures of complaints received during demonetisation period — from November 9 to December 31. 
 
 Kolarkar added that citizens can lodged a complaint with ombudsmen, but only after raising the issue in writing with the concerned bank first. The complaint to RBI can be done by either writing to the ombudsman’s office or by visiting the RBI website.
 
