RAJKOT:  , the favourite watering hole for Gujaratis, observed a complete shutdown on Monday as thousands of liquor shop owners and restaurant owners joined a massive   order to  . 

 The SC order has resulted in closure of nearly 100 independent liquor shops and those in the restaurants on the 11-km road arterial road stretch that connects the coastal highway with the union territory. There are close to 138 liquor shops in Diu. 
 
 On Monday, around 5,000 people, mostly wine shop and restaurant owners, took out a rally from Sai Mandir to the district collector’s office and submitted a memorandum to the collector P S Jani. The rally that began from Sai Mandir passed through the Bus Stand ward, Raberi Road, Bander Chowk and Corporation Road with protesters flashing placards reading ‘Save Diu Tourism’ and ‘Don’t remind us of Portuguese rule’.
 
 Yatin Fugro, president, Diu Hotel Owners Association, told TOI: “It is not only the ban on bars and hotels but the entire development of the Diu island would come to a standstill due to the wrong interpretation of the 11 km road stretch by the administration. It was only after the cancellation orders were issued that all of us including the Diu collector came to know that this stretch is a major district road ) is already declared as national highway. It is very surprising how a district road became part of national highway with even the district magistrate not knowing about it.” 
 
 “This 11km stretch has been connected to the coastal highway though it is inherently a district road. In 2014, a notification was issued stating that this stretch was a major district road. All construction was being done according to the rules of the district road. So, does that mean that all the buildings, including the collector’s office and other important offices and schools are illegal and will be brought down?” said Fugro.
 
 Meanwhile, tourists had a tough time procuring liquor in the island territory as majority of the  , restaurants, other shops and even roadside joints observed a bandh against the SC order.
 
 According to government data, at least 18 lakh to 20 lakh tourists visit Diu every year. 
 
