KHELAKHONG (  West): It’s an overcast afternoon, but there’s no rain. Deep in the valley’s rural interior that straddles the Thoubal and Wabagai constituencies, the narrow winding paths carved out with Rohu-rich fish farms on one side and barren rice fields on the other, are no more than a bicycle track. It is perhaps symbolic, for they seem impossible for the electioneering bandwagons of the ruling   and the challenging BJP to access in this shrill, high-stakes Manipur polls. But they’re just perfect for a solitary figure on a bicycle kicking up a little dust on these tracks. 

 Irom Sharmila’s team likes to call it ‘unstructured campaigning.’ It’s a good play on words. Design or not, her newly-formed party, too, the Peoples Resurgence and Justice Alliance (PRJA), spells out into ‘praja’ or public, somewhat in the fashion of the   -- a philosophy that Sharmila can owe her fledgling party’s spiritual existence to. Arvind Kejriwal’s recent Rs 50,000 donation to her party’s meagre funds carries both financial weight and a psychological push. 
 
 PRJA rolls off the tongue easily and is a handy acronym to employ when asking for directions and whereabouts of her campaign trail. It is a paradox within a paradox. While Congress and BJP flags flutter atop mile-high bamboo stalks, the feel resembling scattered village weddings in the distance, Sharmila ploughs a lonely furrow on her bicycle, slowly painstakingly pedalling her way from village to village, house to house. There is no festooning, no grandstanding, no speeches, nobody but her -- but it is still called a campaign trail. 
 
 Maybe she is used to it now, being by herself but like everything about Sharmila, the symbolism here is strong. By opting to contest, she has finally put the issue of the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) on the election table, but ironically, it puts her in a strange predicament. 
 
 Larger issues, old-timers and close observers say, hold little weight in Manipur elections. Here with the close-structured, village-based communities, especially in the valley (which account for 40 of the 60 assembly seats), the candidates lead the party votes and not generally, vice-versa. With the local voter seeking to further his interests for the next five years, draconian issues like AFSPA get pushed into the background. 
 
 Further, with Sharmila’s extended alienation in the community following her calling of the 16-year-old fast, the locals have little time for symbolism, or even sentiment for her. 
 
 Perhaps, her solitary cycling trysts aren’t so much a matter of choice, they really have deserted her, maybe even cut her free. Maybe Sharmila feels it too. “They were possessive of their own version of my identity,” she had said in an interview in the Capital last year. Maybe, it is the price she is having to pay for making a choice, of wanting to humanise herself after near deification for over a decade and half, and not be finally consumed by the idea.
 
 And in happening so, it brings out a fresh struggle in Sharmila. "Life is a struggle," she told TOI on Tuesday, when asked how she compared this fight with that of her past.
 
 Much like Kejriwal’s Varanasi candidature challenging   in the 2014 Parliamentary elections, Sharmila chose Manipur’s toughest constituency to cut her electoral teeth. It could have been easier for her elsewhere, but few are willing to see the move as what it is. Thoubal is the stronghold of Ibobi Singh, Manipur’s three-term Chief Minister. So great is his sway, he doesn’t even need to show up to campaign in these parts. With BJP’s Bhim Singh, the other heavyweight in the fray, locals are dismissively laughing off Sharmila’s quest.
 
 “
  (Doesn’t the meaning of a Chief Minister hold any weight or not)” thunders Syed-Ur-Rehman when asked about Sharmila’s decision to challenge Ibobi Singh on his turf. Rehman, 42, holds impromptu court in the marketplace of Thoubal’s Muslim-dominated Moijing village, where they say, one member from each family has been given a job with the Manipur police or other state departments. He minces no words. “
 .. (There are clear benefits from being in the CM’s area, why would anybody support her? Sharmila doesn’t even figure in the reckoning in these elections.)” 
 
 On Monday, what Syed-Ur-Rehman perhaps didn’t notice in his bluster was another first in Sharmila and PRJA’s scheme. As she pedalled her way from Moijing into Leishathem village in the adjoining Wabagai ‘kendra’, she was joined by Najma Phundreimayum, also on a bicycle. And as the two women negotiated the bumpy track, few realised that Najma is the first Meitei Muslim to fight for an assembly seat in Manipur.
 
 Yet, Sharmila finds little sympathy or support, especially among the women. On the Imphal-Myanmar highway, the sentiment is not much different. Minding a tiny automobile lubricant store with black-market petrol in plastic bottles glistening in the bleak afternoon light outside,   is all mirth and barely-concealed derision, when asked where she’d place Sharmila today. “If someone comes on a bicycle wearing a large hat, funny shoes and blowing a whistle how are they to be taken seriously,” laughs the 34-year-old, who’s sworn to the BJP because she’s distantly related to Bhim Singh. 
 
 Asked if Sharmila’s issue, AFSPA weighed over the 110-day blockade in the elections, the quip-a-minute Anamika said it was like comparing chicken curry to fish curry. “Two very different things. The blockade can be worked out in a minute if the parties put their heads to it, the AFSPA is trickier to negotiate,” she laughs before she turns serious. “You know why we laugh at Sharmila now,” she asks, “It’s because we loved her so much. She shouldn’t have called off her fast. She should have seen it to the end. She has lost all our support because of that.”
 
 Anamika was only echoing what the majority of the locals here feel. The person on the streets, man and woman alike, speak so casually of her having called off death by fasting and their disappointment at it, it is staggering.
 
 As they rail over AFSPA, the blockade and her called-off fast, a lone voice of support comes from a retired teacher and lifelong CPI cadre, the 68-year-old Memma Phijam in Sekta village in Imphal East, far departed from the hostilities of Thoubal. “Fifteen years is no joke,” she says quietly over the din over Sharmila’s foray into politics. “She tried, we all know she did. Maybe she saw when it didn’t work, she chose the best option available. When did fighting an election become such a bad thing? Don’t forget, she’s still fighting alone…”
 
 
