Panaji:   has been appointed head coach of the Indian women’s team and will take charge of the squad for the two friendlies against Malaysia later this month.
 Maymol, whose association with the All India Football Federation ( ) dates back to 2012 when she coached the junior teams, received a call from the federation asking whether she was willing to take charge and Maymol embraced the new challenge with open arms.
  The Goan will replace Sajid Dhar who has parted ways with the AIFF. Maymol has previously worked with Dar as an assistant.
  Maymol will get down to business from Sunday as India start their 10-day preparatory camp in Delhi.
  “I am at a loss of words. This is one of the happiest moments of my life. I was not expecting this role but certainly looking up to the challenge. I have worked very hard to reach here and it’s a dream come true,” Maymol told TOI on Monday.
  India will take on Malaysian away on July 29 before clashing again on July 31. A total of 25 players have been selected for the preparatory camp in the Capital, with the list being further trimmed down for the final squad.
  “My main goal for now is to prepare the team for the friendlies against Malaysia and win both the matches,” said the former international who will seek clarity on her role only after the Malaysia tour.
  Unfortunately, Goa’s Michel Castanha, who recently represented India at the AFC Asian Cup Qualifiers 2018 in South Korea, will miss out on the opportunity. She abstained from the Senior Nationals due to her examinations and has now not been included among the probables.
  “We can certainly expect more Goans but the girls have to work hard to get into the India team,” said Maymol, who will also have a look at the available talent during the Under-19 Nationals later this month.
  Goan footballers dreaming of a national opportunity will feel confident they will at least get a look in with Maymol at the helm of affairs. Seniors as well as some junior players have now come together and train at the Duler Stadium in Mapusa.
  Things may finally be looking up for women’s football in Goa.
  Probables: Goalkeepers: Panthoi Chanu, Roshni Devi, Kumari Vinitha; Defenders: Ashalata Devi, Manisha Panna, Umapati Devi, Dalima Chhibber, Radharani Devi, Jabamani Tudu, Tony Devi, Sweety Devi; Midfielders: Premi Devi, Lochana Munda, Sanju Yadav, Prameshwori Devi, Bindyarani Devi, Ritu Rani, Indumathi Kathiresan, Mandakini Devi; Forwards: Ratanbala Devi, Kamala Devi, Anju Tamang, Pyari Xaxa, Bala Devi, Dangmei Grace. Head coach: Maymol Rocky.
