MANDAI (West Tripura): With almost a week having passed after the murder of 28-year-old TV journalist   here, about 30 km from Agartala, normal life continues to be paralysed. On Tuesday, a team of journalists visited Mandai under security escort, to find that the situation in this violence-hit village in Jirania subdivision is in stark contrast to what has been claimed by the administration. Journalists were advised to stick to the paved roads and not venture into the interior of the village. No male member was found at any of the tribal households near the spot where Shantanu’s body was found last Wednesday.

 With civilian movement between Jirania and Mandai stopped, local markets wear a deserted look. Banks and schools here have reportedly not been functioning either.
 
 The administration has convinced locals to organise two Durga Pujas to help bring back a semblance of normalcy. Police are tight-lipped about the investigation, but contradictory statements made by police as to when the first arrests were made in connection with Shantanu’s murder have only added to the confusion. The other confusing detail that has been thrown up from witness accounts is related to an unknown middle-aged man who reportedly accompanied Shantanu to the spot but has not been heard of since.
 
 Shantanu’s body was recovered from the backyard of schoolteacher Sukumar Debbarma’s house on the Jirania-Mandai road at around 2.30 pm last Wednesday following a civilian call, said the SDPO. According to the SDPO, Shantanu had been attacked when police chased some IPFT supporters towards Mandai.
 
 Villagers’ accounts of what happened here last Wednesday all concur that a pitched battle took place here on the day between supporters of the CPM and the IPFT, that Shantanu was seen arriving with the CPM supporters around 12.30pm, and that the last time he was seen alive was around 2pm, when police started baton charging the IPFT supporters.
 
 Ranju Mian, who lives next to the house where Shantanu’s body was found, said, “When police chased IPFT workers, only CPM supporters were left with a few security personnel on the spot. We did not see who dragged Shantanu and killed him, but police were present. The security personnel on duty mostly had only lathis, and some officers had pistols. We were told to remain confined at home.”
 
 According to the villagers, a road blockade was initiated here at around 7am by around 100 IPFT supporters, who were protesting against the CPM’s accusation that they had inflicted violence upon CPM workers on the previous day in West Tripura and Khowai districts, injuring about 150 workers of the ruling party. Around 12.30pm, some CPM cadres gathered about 100 metres south of the spot. Shantanu was with this group. The two groups then clashed with various weapons, including bow and arrows, sharp cutters and sticks. At around 2pm, police started baton charging to disperse the IPFT supporters. It was at this point that Shantanu was dragged into a nearby jungle, villagers said.
 
 Pranesh Debbarman, a villager, said, “We were not at home at the time of the incident. Policemen present at the spot were guarding CPM workers. Sukumar was at home then, but has since left for Agartala where his family stays in a rented house and his children study. He came to the village two days after the incident and fenced his house and left again, not interacting with us.”
 
 He added, “Shantanu came here riding a bike with one Sribas, a resident of Jirania Chowmuhani. Both of them were seen interacting with policemen at the playground. But after his body was found, nobody has been talking of Sribas.”
 
 SDPO Sharma, who was accompanying the media team on Tuesday, initially claimed two accused were picked up at around 2pm from Mandai bazar, about a kilometre north from the spot. However, Shantanu’s body was found at least half an hour later. Contradicting his claim, Sharma later said the youths were detained around 3.15pm and the arrest was registered at 7 pm. They were produced next day before a local court, which remanded them to 14 days’ police custody. Contadicting both claims, IGP K Sreejesh had earlier said the two youths —   and Bikash Debbarma — were detained in the morning in connection with a different case.
 
