NEW DELHI:   sought to distance party chief Sonia Gandhi from the mess in Gujarat Rajya Sabha polls, where party MLAs are being poached by BJP, by saying that   was in the contest as a senior Congress member and not as a key aide to the party president.

 It also accused BJP of offering huge sums of money and pressuring Congress MLAs to defect, while raising the issue in  . “ He (Patel) is contesting as a senior Congress leader and not as political secretary (to Sonia Gandhi),” leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad, told reporters.
 
 He said his comment was provoked by repeated references in the media that Ahmed Patel, political secretary to Sonia Gandhi, was the candidate in Gujarat.
 
 The remark was seen by Congress netas as an attempt to distance the party leadership from the tough battle since, they said, the BJP was trying to portray otherwise.
 
 Raising the issue in the  , Congress members   and   said party MLAs in Gujarat were being offered Rs 15 crore each to back BJP. “Congress MLAs are being put under pressure,” Kharge alleged. However, their demand for a discussion was turned down.
 
 Azad accused BJP of “stealing” Congress MLAs under a “premeditated plan” but said Patel would coast home. “Ahmed bhai will win by a margin of at least 10 to 15 votes. Why has BJP fielded its third candidate when it does not have the numbers. It is only to steal our MLAs,” he said.
 
 To questions about Congress MLAs being in Bengaluru when Gujarat was marooned in floods, Azad said, “The ruling party is creating an atmosphere so that Congress MLAs return and are forced to resign by BJP.” He said Congress netas were in every block and district working for the flood-hit people.
 
 Azad accused PM Modi and his ministers of being insensitive towards the sufferings of flood-ravaged people, saying Union ministers rushed to “engineer defections” in the northeast and other states but had not visited flooded areas. “What was Gujarat CM doing... he did not visit the affected areas,” he said.
 
