The 20-odd   that were merged with the   (NMC) several years back are still bereft of basic civic amenities. With the municipal elections around the corner, the residents have brought out their set of demands that the future corporators from their areas will have to resolve. 

 They complained about the absence of proper roads, irregular water supply, missing street lights and dilapidated and non-functional health centres. Residents said the members of the outgoing house of the civic body had made promises to secure votes but did not fulfil them. 
 
 The settlement of Polwada, located close to Pimpalgaon Khambh in ward number 31, is facing daily problem of getting proper drinking water and electricity. The youth from these areas, who come to the city for higher education, said the public transport system is in a shambles. Many complained that they miss at least two or three lectures in the college at times because of the erratic bus services. 
 
 Sachin Bhor of Dadhegaon said all the wards in the fringe areas are least developed. “Women here keep the taps open all through the day and night just to ensure that they do not miss the water supply. There is no fixed time for the water supply. Actually, for days together, water is not supplied due to which people have to rely on handpumps,” he said. 
 
 The Ambad industrial area located close-by is a work destination for many Dadhegaon residents. After finishing work in the second shift, the return journey home is dangerous and accident-prone. “These people either drive bicycles or motorcycles on their way back home. The kuchha street roads without any illumination make it a tough ride back home,” Bhor added. 
 
 Some residents of Dadhegaon said they often sight leopards in the village, but still have to risk their lives and travel on the unlit roads.
 
 Residents said they had to struggle to get LPG connections and access to a nationalised bank. Janardhan Godhade of Wadner Dumala said, “People have to struggle for LPG cylinders. The vehicle of the LPG gas agency comes only once in a week. The same is the situation about banks. People have to carry the withdrawn money from the city to their village in the absence of the bank. Cases of robberies have also happened. Then there are basic health problems. After 8 am, even the private clinics close down and hence during night hours one has to arrange for some vehicle and transport the patient to the city.”
 
 Many villagers say that though the civic body has constructed public lavatories, there are no lights in it following which women cannot use them during the night hours. The primary health centres are also for namesake, considering that the doctor is available at such centres for not more than an hour.
 
 In the city limits, where the garbage van of the NMC moves from door-to-door to collect the waste, it is not possible in the village as the roads are too narrow. As a result, the residents either dump it in open spaces or burn it. 
 
