HYDERABAD: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation ( ) appears to be groping in the dark to pull down the unauthorized construction at   with implosion technology. Though the illegal building at SIET colony near Guttala Begumpet was partially razed on May 8, the municipal corporation has been unable to go further and complete the demolition by using the same technology .The civic body has decided to bulldoze the five-storey unauthorized construction in the buffer zone of Sunnam Chervu by using implosion technology . But the agency could blast only the ground and one floor as the entire exercise was carried out in an unprofessional manner.

 The town planning wing announced that it would take up the balance work in a day or two, but it is still to take a decision.
 
 Structural engineers from   had suggested that the implosion should be taken up only after removing the loose bricks.
 
 GHMC zonal city planner ( ) G Krishanaiah said “We have not decided the date to complete the demolition of the illegal structure.The agency , Ms Uttam Blastech, which was entrusted the work, is consulting experts to complete the work.“
 
 Official sources said the agency that had started drilling the walls of the building has not yet been able to decide how to finish the job.
 
 The agency , which claimed that it has experiences in similar work, is now reportedly consulting other experts including a retired ar my officer who had done similar work in the army .
 
 “The agency has also approached some agencies, which have done similar blasting in other states. The other agencies are expected to visit the site in a day or two,“ an assistant city planner of the GHMC said.
 
  representatives said the drilling of holes has been taken up in all the floors. Implosion would be continued once the drilling is over.
 
 “Removal of walls and drilling in columns in upper floors at three places is being done. The drilling work is in progress and expected to be completed by Sunday ,“ another officer of GHMC said.
 
