Nagpur: While there is no official statement or assurance directly from the state government on the issue of the deaths of farmers and farm labourers in Yavatmal due to spraying of pesticides, the patients taking treatment in private hospitals are being forced to spend anything between Rs70,000 and Rs1 lakh. Despite belonging to the BPL category, they are deprived of assistance under the Jyotiba Phule Swasthya Surkasha Yojna due to a clause in the scheme which says that only those poisoning patients who are on ventilators can avail the scheme. One patient, 43-year-old Vitthal Perkewar from village Pahapal, who was brought to Sanjeevan Hospital in Yavatmal in very critical condition, died within 2-3 hours of admission. The hospital charged Rs40,000 just for so much time.  “This particular patient was brought in neuro-paralysis condition. But I want to request government to ban ‘polo’ brand of pesticide as it contains ditentriuron chemical which has no antidote and patient never reverts to normal,” Dr Sunil Agrawal, who owns the hospital, said. Hansraj Ahir, the union minister of state for home affairs, told TOI that since deaths due to contact poisoning were accidental ones, he would try to get Rs4 lakh compensation to the next of kin of the dead person under the Gopinath Munde Shetkari Apghat Bima Yojna. This would include an aid of Rs2 lakh each from state and centre.  Dr Mahendra Lodha, who runs two hospitals in Wani, said that it was difficult for farmers to take treatment in private for contact poisoning. “We have been giving some concessions but the expenses range between few thousands and Rs1 lakh which they can’t afford,” he told TOI. Dr TC Rathod, MD, Criticare hospital, Yavatmal, said he has also been getting 6-7 patients daily but there have been no deaths so far. The Principal Secretary of Agriculture Vijay Kumar on Monday held a review meeting with Rajesh Deshmukh, the district collector, the State Agriculture Commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh, District ZP Chief Executive Officer Deepak Kumar Singla, Additional District Collector Laxman Raut, RDC Narendra Fulzele, District Agriculture Superintending Officer Navnath Kolpalkar. Kumar told the agriculture officers to be serious about their responsibility and strengthen the rural machinery by visiting the fields to create mass awareness among the farmers. He instructed officials to take stringent action if anyone is found guilty. Earlier, Vijay Kumar, accompanied by SP Singh and Rajesh Deshmukh, visited the house of the pesticide poisoning victim Devidas Madavi of Kalamb and consoled the members. The sitting MLA of Ralegaon Ashok Uikey was also present during the visit. “Though things have improved in last 15 days, the condition of the rural hospitals like the Maregaon and Wani rural hospital (RH) and sub district hospitals is very bad. There was no provision to tackle such inhalation cases. I set many things right and told to procure all necessary medicines. Now, the situation is much better. We are trying to get banners and placards made at mass scale. We will try to educate farmers on right and protective use of pesticides,” said Ahir.  While the deans of the Akola medical college and Chandrapur medical college said that their hospitals too have been getting a few inhalation patients in last few months the government Medical College (GMC) Yavatmal dean Dr Ashok Rathod has not sent the viscera or the blood samples to any forensic laboratory or the Indian Institute of Toxicology Research as told TOI earlier.  Dr S S More told TOI that the hospital had got three patients on September 29 with irritation in eyes due to spraying. Two of them were father and son from village Korpana in Chandrapur district. One from village Yensa in Warora taluka had superficial ulcer in eye due to pesticide exposure. But all three were discharged on Monday.