NEW DELHI: The   has recommended to the Centre to amend law to ban   which had reached “terrifying proportions“ and make provision for punishing advocates for boycotting court proceedings resulting in wastage of precious judicial time and suffering of litigants.

 The commission, headed by former   judge Justice B S Chauhan, in its report said there is an urgent need to rein in unscrupulous lawyers and their associations resorting to strike on issues having no relevance to the working of the courts. It suggested the government to bring amendments in Advocates Act for all litigants to claim compensation for loss due to misconduct of lawyers for participating in strike.
 
 It said that Section 7 of the Act should be amended “to make rules to deal with strikes, boycotts or abstentions from courts by the advocates, provide for suitable measures in this regard and to provide for punishments including the punishment of disqualification from contesting any election of Bar Councils or of   for a period of six years.“
 
 “If any person suffers loss due to the misconduct of the advocate or for his participation in strike or otherwise, then, such person may make a claim for compensation against the advocate in the appropriate forum established under any law for the time being in force. The non-payment of fees, either in full or part, by a person to his advocate shall not be a defence available for the advocate against whom such claim for compensation is made,“ the report said.
 
 The commission said the act of going on strike amounts to a violation of an advocate's duty and also contempt of court. It said such illegal activity had been going on unabated despite the apex court's order.
 
 “The Commission... could not find any convincing reasons for which the advocates resorted to strike or boycott of work in the courts. The reasons for strike call or abstinence from work varied from local, national to international issues, having no relevance to the working of the courts,“ it said.
 
