MADURAI: Expressing concern over widespread alcohol use, the Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Monday said that liquor is the mother of many evils and blamed the government for giving easy availability and accessibility to alcohol.

 Saying that it wants to deal with the issue in detail, the bench has raised 14 queries and suo moto impleaded senior government officials to reply to the queries.
 
 The   police in Tirunelveli had arrested Sakthivel on December 4 for assaulting his mother with a sickle after she refused to give him money to buy liquor. When his bail petition came up for hearing,   granted conditional bail, as the petitioner’s mother, who was admitted to a hospital for the injuries, has been discharged. But, the judge kept the petition pending by saying that heinous crimes are committed under intoxication and health of citizens who are consuming liquor is gradually affected. “70 lakh people of the state’s 6.8 crore population consume alcohol every day. Most of the consumers are labourers, farmers and people from the lower strata of society. Most of the daily wagers are stated to be spending 50% or more of their earnings on liquor. Just 180ml of liquor is enough to drive their families to abject poverty. Women and children need to be protected from domestic violence, sexual violence and other crimes,” he said.
 
 Apart from causing numerous accidents and crimes, researchers have linked alcohol consumption to more than 60 diseases, the judge said and wanted people to be discouraged of the habit. “States including Bihar, Kerala and Gujrat have banned alcohol either completely or partially. Bihar chief minister   claimed that there was a huge drop in domestic violence and rape cases from April 2015 to April 2016. Besides, the   also banned liquor outlets on the national highways after taking note of road accidents that took away many precious lives. The ruling AIADMK government made poll-promise last year to bring total prohibition in a phased manner. Accordingly, 500 shops were ordered to be closed on June 19 and working hours of state-run liquor shops were reduced by two hours. Thereafter, what happened to the drive?” the judge asked. 
 
 The court demanded reply to 14 queries from the union’ cabinet secretary, law and justice secretary, state’s home and revenue secretaries, director general of police and managing director of TASMAC as parties to the case.
 
 
  
 
 1 How many liquor shops were closed down pursuant to policy decision of Tamil Nadu?
 
 2 How many will be closed down? 
 
 3 When will total prohibition be implemented in the state?
 
 4 Has there been an increase in the consumption of liquor over the years?
 
 5 Whether liquor addiction is increasing year-by-year among the masses?
 
 6. Is it true that crimes are increasing due to liquor addiction?
 
 7. How many cases involving liquor were reported in the last 10 years?
 
 8. Are juveniles/students becoming liquor addicts due to easy availability and accessibility?
 
 9. Is it a fact that the juveniles are indulging in crimes, especially crimes against women and girl children under the influence of alcohol? 
 
 10. Why are the Central and state governments not banning sale of liquor to minors?
 
 11. Is it a fact that women and children are more affected financially and psychologically?
 
 12 Have the Central and state governments taken appropriate measures to sensitise people about the harmful effects of alcohol by allotting adequate funds? 
 
 13. Why is the government not opening more wards and set up suitable infrastructure at government hospitals as one man dies every 98 minutes due to alcohol consumption?
 
 14. Have the governments established de-addiction and counselling centres to treat and manage liquor addicts in every taluk? 
 
 
