BENGALURU: According to data released by the department of economic and social affairs of the United Nations, there will be 13.2 million people living in Bengaluru in 2050. Efficient urban planning and equitable distribution of resources will have a direct bearing on how we live in future.

 With this background, academics, researchers, anthropologists and students gathered for Urban Arc 2017, the first edition of the threeday annual research conference dedicated to debate urban transitions in the global south. The   (IIHS) is hosting researchers to share their findings on subjects like sustainable city planning, politics of public spaces, and the way citizens respond to changes in their environment.
 
 A panel discussion on `A city in flux ­ examining transition in Bengaluru', on Thursday covered everything from the politics of street art to who can lay claim to public spaces. Using the example of the Danvantri underpass,   from Srishti Institute of Art, Design and Technology pointed out how public places could be sites of effective expression. Srishti students have time and again prevented walls from being painted white and, instead, turned them into their own canvass.
 
 “Every time BBMP paints the walls white, students counter it by painting the standard images that the Palike paints across city walls. It is a sort of a plea to BBMP to retain the beauty of the road. While we need development and improved re sources, there will always be a contesting claim to retain the existing beauty . It's this dichotomy that we need to address,“ said Arzu. Among the other panel ists, Salila Vanka, a professor at  , who made a presentation on the subject of public space utilization in Bengaluru, separated the notions of civil and political society in her discourse. Salila categorized the political society as being more likely to be vocal about changes to the environment.
 
 “In the 1600s, Bengaluru used to be a military town. Today , it's a mega metropolis.The exponential growth in the last 20 years has seen public parks shrinking, with several restrictions on their use.Upper class standards of health, sanitation and other such notions have come to shape the way we design our public spaces. Ideally , when in comes to public spaces, all categories of people should have a say,“ she said.
 
 The event also had on display works of five art ists who explored the themes of self and city through various lenses.Usha Rao, an anthropologist and documentary filmmaker, had an installation that was an audio clip of the sounds one would normally hear in any bustling city, like those of rain showers, television playing in a café and people chattering.
 
 “It's the soundscape of my version of the city. The absence of the visual aspect makes the listener react to the sounds in an intimate fashion,“ she said. Usha, however, added that the pace of development shouldn't come at a human cost. “The global aesthetic that we are aspiring for as a city needs to be sustainable. The city cannot be fetishized. People actually live here and planners have to keep that in mind,“ she said.
 
