HYDERABAD: Many top officials, who have been arrested on corruption charges after being caught with humongous disproportionate assets seem to have learnt the ropes during their stint in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC).

  This is highlighted by the fact that two big fish caught by sleuths of the   -GV Raghu and Pamu   -had earlier worked in the GHMC as heads of town planning and engineering wings respectively .
 The ACB alleged that Raghu, who was arrested recently, amassed disproportionate assets over `200 crore, while the wealth of Panduranga Rao, nabbed in June, was said to be worth Rs800 crore.
 
 Official sources said Raghu resorted to several irregularities while working as chief city planner (CCP) in the GHMC and that cases had been slapped against him by the vigilance and enforcement (V&E) department and ACB.
 
 “Raghu had been on the ACB radar since 2009 soon after he joined GHMC. But he managed to remain out of trouble with the help of an ACB official and politicos. An ACB joint director from his region helped him,“ sources in MA&UD department told TOI. 
 
 Officials recalled that Raghu joined the GHMC in the rank of additional director and the norm then was that only a director-cadre officer can head the town planning wing as CCP . “But using his political clout, Raghu grabbed the post of CCP as in charge,“ said sources. 
 
 After coming to Hyderabad, Raghu got another city planner from AP appointed to GHMC. “The city planner was posted to the west zone which was lucrative,“ a town planning wing official said.Raghu reportedly also cleared many infrastructure projects on lake beds, government land.
 
 “As many as 70 town planning officials have been slapped with graft charges by V&E department or ACB. The properties of about a dozen officials were raided on charges of disproportionate assets. But all of them went scot free and a few secured plum postings in GHMC.
 
 “In some cases, the ACB and vigilance commissioner recommended prosecution, but tainted officals got departmental inquiry ordered against them,“ a principal secretary of the state, who worked with the GHMC, said.
 
