Director   recently launched his new short film titled 'Baarish', which stars  , fondly remembered as the mute kid from the movie ' '. The film is a cute and simple love story which will make you wish to you could trade places with the leading man.

  
  
 In an interview with TimesOfIndia.com, Varma spoke about the film, shared tidbits about its inception and his experience on the sets.
  
 Talking about the film and the idea behind delving into the romance genre Varma said, "At the start, the reference point for 'Baarish' was 1972 film ' ', where actor Rajkumar sees the feet of the heroine and falls in love with her. I wanted this film to be as romantic as that. The idea is to revive those kinds of memories. And people are reacting so well because he just hear the girl's voice and falls in love with that and then he gives his requests and she starts singing back. For me, it was like something to explore, whether I can do romance or not and I'm quite happy that it turned out well."
  
 Love stories have always been a favourite when it comes to the Hindi film industry. When asked how he conceptualised his film with a story that can tug on any one's heartstrings, he said, "Firstly, we see in love stories what we don't really see in real life. It's a fantasy. We all like that and hope something like that happens to us in life, but it rarely happens. If you see in the comments section you will see youngsters have commented that 'Wish something like that happens with me', girls have said that 'He is so cute'. Love stories will be always popular because they fulfil some kind of aspirations within us. And music is in my family so it was natural for me to turn towards music. So a guy falls in love through music."
  
 Speaking about his leading man Parzaan Dastur, he said, "I knew Parzaan Dastur as a child actor from 'Kuch Kuch Hota Hai' but after that, I had not seen him. While casting for 'Baarish', I was looking around for a young actor, I wanted someone who is very innocent-looking who would be believable in this character as such things don't happen these days. People don't believe that such a guy can exist who can be that romantic. I found that in him. When I met him, I realised that he has got a sense of music also which is important to the film. He knows cameras, angles and other technical things. He is very much a director's actor. It was quite a pleasure to work with Parzan and I'm sure to work with him again in future."
  
 Asked about his views on short films and digital media acting as a platform for filmmakers and storytellers, he said, "I wasn't aware of the medium until last year when I was approached to make a short film called ' '. And, I was shocked to find the kind of response I got there. It's a bit like theatre, where we get an immediate response, you will get the comments, views and all kinds of reactions which is not possible in a feature film. It was an eye-opener for me. Young people are mostly watching short films on their phones and all other mediums. It allows me to take on different subjects, explore new talent, and take risks which are not possible in feature films as they are big budget and all that."
  
 Keeping today's tech-savvy generation in mind, when asked if he thought if it was a risk to share such a story with its old world charm, Varma said, "Taking risks is filmmakers job! If you don't take risks then it will be a boring thing. I wanted to do something away from smartphones and away from technology and all of that is little robotic. As we are missing the human touch in our life. I wanted to revive it. We haven't even shown the guy having a smartphone in his hand. In those seven minutes, I wanted the audience to see a world which very romantic, old and charming world."
  
 None the less, the director said his experience working on the film was "fantastic" as he had the creative liberty to do what he pleased. He said, "It was fantastic! There was great support from the Indiatimes group, Mr   (CEO of Times Internet),   (Creative Consultant). They gave me full liberty to make whatever story I wanted, they had full faith in me and even when casting no one had any problem with anything. So that's the ideal thing for a filmmaker where there is no creative interference and you are able to do what you want to do. The unit, casting, and the actors were good. We got support from all the music labels too. It was very pleasant experience. And from the audience also the reaction is good. So, we are very happy."
 
  
  
 
