Chandigarh: On the residents’ plea against the lack of monsoon preparation that led to the flooding of Phase V, the Punjab and Haryana high court issued contempt notice on Thursday to the urban authorities of Punjab and Mohali.

 The petitioners want the authorities punished for disobeying the high court orders of 2002, 2005, and 2009 about checking this flooding. In 2009, the authorities had submitted that they had taken steps to prevent a repeat. The petition says the drainage system in the phase is unable to carry much rainwater. “The spillover enters the sewerage line and carries its sewage into the houses. A two-hour spell of normal rainfall is enough to get streets under 4 feet of water. Rainwater from the other parts of the town and many villages also accumulates in the low-lying Phase V,” the petitioners argue.
 
 Earlier, the rainwater flowed into the industrial belt of Phase VIII when it was underdeveloped but now the factory walls that have come up repel it into Phase V. Tejinder Singh Soodan and several other residents moved the high court. The officers who must respond to the contempt notice include the Punjab chief secretary, principal secretaries of the urban development and public works departments, Gmada (Greater Mohali Area Development Authority) chief administrator, and Mohali municipal commissioner. 
 
 The counsel for the petitioners, Rajinder Singh Goyal, submitted that the 2009 assurance from the authorities was only to mislead the residents and the high court, since even after a claimed expenditure of crores of rupees, the situation had worsened “The claims that the accumulation of rainwater has been checked proved hollow this August when more than two hours of rain paralysed the area. Short of drinking water, people had a sleepless night, and were unable cook in 4 feet of standing water in their kitchens,” the lawyer submitted.
 
 The residents seek damages ranging from Rs 50,000 to more than Rs 3 lakh. The petitioners’ water-spoiled vehicles remain in workshops with engines ceased and large-scale damage to the interiors and electronics. Refrigerators, sofas, beds, cabinets, wooden items, and clothes worth thousands of rupees were damaged at each house.
 
 BOX:
 
 Petition says
 
 The drainage system in Phase V has small capacity, so the spillover carries sewage and rainwater from villages into the houses 
 
 Earlier, the rainwater flowed into the Phase-VIII industrial belt but now factory walls block it
 
 The 2009 assurances to the high court fell flat this August when the house were flooded again
 
 
