PATNA: Hundreds of former students of   came to their alma mater from across the country to participate in the annual   on Sunday. Students from as old as 1969 batch to the recent years interacted with each other and recollected the 12 years of their stay in the prestigious school.

 The daylong meet commenced with a cricket match and a brunch. As they played and ate with each other on the school premises, the alumni recalled the fun and the discipline at their alma mater.
 
 “St Michael’s took over St Xavier’s High School in 1969 and majority of the students in the senior secondary sections, including me, shifted to the former. It used to be an all-boys and boarding school then. We used to have whole lot of fun. It is because of the quality education and all-round development at St Michael’s that most of us are doing well today,” said Dilawez Hoda from the class of 1973, who spent 32 years in the US before relocating to   following his retirement.
 
 Similar views were expressed by Colonel Amit Jha from the class of 1978. Jha is presently director, Bihar-Jharkhand directorate of NCC. “Each and every moment spent at St Michael’s is memorable for all of us, including discipline of the American Fathers, compulsory swimming and library sessions among other activities,” said Jha. 
 
 Alumni from recent batches too were elated over meeting friends and seniors. “It is a wonderful feeling to come to your alma mater and interact with ex-Michaelites, who studied in the school even more than 50 years ago. Most of us owe to this school for what we are today,” said Vishal Gupta, alumnus from the class of 2004.
 
 Dr Vikas Shankar, secretary of the  , said the groundwork for the alumni meet started around three months back. “A WhatsApp group for this purpose was created and different batches kept on sharing their plans with each other. Besides, we also connected with other alumni through various Facebook pages. We are glad that more than 200 alumni have joined us,” said Dr Vikas.
 
 The main event at the alumni meet was get-together in the evening. The Alumni Association selected its new office-bearers for the year 2018-19, in which Sushil Kumar from the class of 1989 was elected as the president. Besides, Shailendra Luthra from the batch of 1990 took the charge as the president of the association for the year 2017-18. 
 
 
