After a host of felicitation ceremonies, first in Mumbai and then in Delhi, Agra girls Deepti Sharma and   --who were a part of the women’s world cup team which reached the finals in the recently-concluded tournament -- have finally returned to their homes in Agra. 

  In order to felicitate them, a road show was organized in the city, from Bhagwan Talkies crossing to   on Friday evening, where the two players, riding an open jeep, greeted their fans. There was a shower of flowers, as well as affection, as fans of the young cricketers cheered on for their stars. Many were carrying dhols, drums and the Tricolour, and there was a riot of colours and noise at the procession. 
 
  
  Deepti (left) and Poonam (right) with Hemalata, former Indian player from Agra and current selector
 
 
 
 The parade was led by a group of skaters, followed by the jeep carrying Deepti and Poonam with former Indian player from Agra and current selector,  . Fans were also seen carrying banners, congratulating the two cricketers, as they passed the MG Road, waving at the crowd and taking selfies with their fans. 
 
  Leg spinner Poonam Yadav, who admitted that she didn’t expect such a welcome at her hometown, was excited to see a massive gathering. She said, "I never thought of a welcome like this. Playing for the country is a feat in itself and when you get recognition and respect after performing well, it feels out of this world."
 
  
  (Left to right )Deepti, Hemalata and Poonam at the victory procession at MG Road
 
 
 The girls who met Indian Prime Minister   in Delhi said it was a dream come true. Deepti Sharma, 19, who is a left-handed batsman and right-arm off- break bowler, said, "I was unable to sleep when I got to know Sachin Tendulkar has tweeted about me, earlier, but when I met our PM and shook hands with him, it was a feeling of another kind. I was feeling proud of myself."
  
  Talking about the rewards bestowed by different state governments on players from their respective states, Poonam said, "The love and appreciation of our people is more than any reward for us but we do expect monetary rewards from our state government also so that we can use it to improve our game."
 
  
  Crowd gathered at Eklavya Stadium to get a glance of Deepti and Poonam
 
 
  Hemlata Kala, who trained Poonam and identified Deepti’s talent when she was accompanying her brother to the practice, said, "They played amazingly well at the World Cup and I am proud of them."
  
  Talking about their final match against England on Sunday, Deepti said, "While on the ground, we just kept in mind that we needed to give our best, not to get out and to make as many runs as possible. Though we lost the match, we haven’t lost hope. Given the immense support from our countrymen, we will definitely win the next World Cup."
 
  The celebration didn’t end with this felicitation as there were functions organized at different venues for the young players. A family dinner was organized at Poonam’s house, which was attended by Hemlata and Deepti as well.
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
