BENGALURU:  's scoring woes took a backseat on a humid evening at the Sree Kanteerava Stadium, when Sunil Chhetri's peach of a freekick saw the Blues pip   for a hard-fought 2-1 victory in their   Group E match on Tuesday.

 It was an astonishing comeback from the hosts after a miserable, error-prone first half where Bagan flexed their muscles in a display of sheer dominance. It was also the first time in four draws and a defeat at home that Bengaluru have beaten the Mariners.
 
 Skipper   and   were again at their attacking best, dictating play to torment Bengaluru's defence.And in one of their several seamless counterattacks, Bagan found the breakthrough via a needless challenge by  .
 
 Norde slipped through the left into the box and the India defender stuck his foot out to send the Haiti winger sprawling in the 36th minute. Yusa then stepped up to the spot and a quick shuffle later, slammed the ball low to the right of the goal. Arindam Bhattacharya got a hand to it, but the Japanese's strike was too strong for the Bengaluru goalkeeper to parry out.
 
 Trailing by a goal, coach Albert Roca led Bengaluru out onto the ground after the break and in a rare moment, spent several minutes with Chhetri, CK Vineeth and Cameron Watson, embracing them and giving last-minute pep talks. Whatever Roca had said, it worked.
 
 Bagan suffered a big blow in the 50th minute when Yusa was stretchered off with an injury .And with the Japanese's exit, Mariners' game fell apart. In one of Bengaluru's trademark, dangerous set-pieces, Watson's curling corner in the 51st minute found Jhingan, who made amends for his earlier mistake with a calm, side-footed shot down the right for the equalizer.
 
 As Bagan's passing became more erratic, Bengaluru went for the jugular. Suddenly , it was the Blues of the yore, stitching passes and attacking from the flanks. Their efforts paid off when Bagan goalkeeper Shilton Paul, who was largely untested in the first half, erred when he handled the ball on the edge of the box in the 57th minute.
 
 For the experienced Chhetri, it was a free-kick all too familiar and the Bengaluru skipper smashed it low through the Bagan wall and beyond Paul's reach for the winner.
 
 
