NAGPUR: Citizens took full advantage of the huge discounts offered by automobile companies just before the ban on BS-III vehicles kicked in on April 1. From March 28 to 31, 2017, some 1,227 vehicles were sold in Nagpur city, as against just 301 in the same period in 2016, shows data from the Nagpur City   office. Similarly, 1,477 registrations were seen this year as against 1,240 last year at the Nagpur (East) RTO office.

 The   had prohibited sale and registration of vehicles meeting BS-III standards from April 1. After the SC refused to relax the ban, to allow manufacturers and dealers to clear old stock of vehicles, huge discounts were offered by almost all major manufacturers.
 
 Despite the big rush, the RTOs in Nagpur managed to cope with the pressure using the new software installed recently. Both,   and dealers, praised the online system, after it helped deal with the BS-III rush.
 
 The statistics provided by Nagpur (East) RTO show that the number of registrations on March 31, especially of 2-wheelers, almost doubled in 2017. Last year, 386 were registered but 808 2-wheelers were registered on March 31.
 
 Overall, there was a hike of little more than 150%, from 524 to 1,340, in the vehicles registered on March 31 when compared to last year, with almost 80% of them being 2-wheelers.
 
 Rural RTO Sharad Jichkar said he supports the ban on BS-III vehicles, as it will help save the environment. “The online system made our work very comfortable. Despite the bulk registration of vehicles due to automobile companies offering heavy discounts, we managed to deal with all requests because of the online platform.”
 
 When asked whether they increased number of staff to cope with the situation, Jichkar says, “Without increasing the number of staff for registration, we extended working hours a bit. Right from the inspector to the ARTO (Assistant regional transport officer), our staff worked till midnight to complete the work,” he added.
 
 A leading automobile dealer said on condition of anonymity that the hike in sales is remarkable. “We were told to provide invoice, insurance and sale letter till March 31 to the RTO. Now, we are only left with some paper work since the online system really helped to meet the deadline. We managed to register maximum number of vehicles.” 
 
