AHMEDABAD: As   alias Shaggy, the alleged mastermind behind con call centres in Maharashtra and Gujarat, has been apprehended by  , city police have upped the ante in their search for new information on the   of con call centres in Ahmedabad and its periphery.

  City police officials said they would not go to Thane to interrogate Sagar, they were in touch with their counterparts there and will look into his investigation report (IR) for details.
 
 “Sagar has not been accused in any of the con call centres busted by Ahmedabad police so far. While there were instances where the accused claimed to have worked at con call centres run by him or his associates, his role is was primarily that of a facilitator. We will be getting details on his Gujarat operations and the intricacies of his business from Thane police,” said a senior city police official involved in the investigation of con call centres.
 
 Police sources, however, said that there were a number of con call centres run by him—which had prompted Thane police to make multiple visits to Ahmedabad last year.
 
 Sagar had lived in the city and started his career at call centres, under the wings of a few established players who had just started off devising ways to dupe US citizens after the call centre boom. Sources said that he, however, soon parted ways with his bosses and established his own network.
 
 “His strength was his contacts in the US. Setting up a call centre with computers, system and manpower is the easy part, but to process the payments received through cash cards and redeemable cards and getting the money back to India from the US was a specialist job, and Sagar was considered the a foremost player. While he is said to have some five or six con call centres in the city, his writ ran large primarily due to a large number of small con call centres that needed him for the processing,” said an industry insider.
 
 Sagar was also accused in the indictment by the US last year, for the multi-million   (IRS) scam, where callers impersonated IRS officials to coerce US citizens into paying ‘tax dues’.
 
 
