MUMBAI: In what is the fifth such embarrassment for the state board this  , the Mathematics and Statistics paper for the commerce stream, all eight pages of it, was leaked on WhatsApp at 10.23am on Monday. The leak gave an at least 37-minute advantage to unscrupulous students; exams for the morning session start at 11am and students are allowed to enter the hall till 11.30am.

 TOI received the paper at 10.23am and shared the image with board officials at 10.40am after repeated calls to them went unanswered. The 80-mark paper for commerce students saw several candidates across the city walk in late to exam halls, exploiting the 11.30 cut-off rule for entry. 
 
 Soon, the state board issued instructions to exam centres via a circular and telephonic messages asking supervisors to note of students entry timings.
 
 “Since the images are being circulated via WhatsApp, students could misuse them if they are outside exam halls. Supervisors have been asked to make note of students who enter after 10.45am, in case of the first session, and after 2.45pm for the second session. The reason and details of such students will have to be noted so that there is a record of it,” said Siddheshwar Chandekar, secretary of the board’s Mumbai division. The state board also reissued rules over use of mobile phones and the internet in the circular—no one except the centre in-charge or custodian can use a phone. The circular said every custodian centre should have a dedicated assistant custodian who will be responsible for a paper from the start to the end and must keep a record of all key timings. 
 
 While there is no clarity on the extent of the Maths paper leak, students were seen outside exam centres peering into their phones and checking for solutions. In Mumbai division, on Monday, as many as 1.8 lakh students appeared for the paper. The student numbers are around five lakh across the state. 
 
 A private tutor in Borivli was shocked to find that her students had copies of Monday’s question paper on their phones and were getting their doubts cleared. Moreover, on the WhatsApp group called   through which TOI received the paper, members asked administrators to forward the paper from another group, alluding to such other groups. 
 
 The leak has made both parents and students anxious. The board’s Mumbai division helpline on Monday received calls from several worried parents. “Parents feel those indulging in this (malpractice) will affect the morale of students who have studied for the entire year,” said a counsellor with the helpline.
 
 An   student who appeared for the paper in Bhandup said, “All of us read textbooks and take notes thoroughly for a year but there are some who directly read the paper and answers. At the centre today, a lot of students entered late. The supervisor made an announcement that from the next paper, students should not enter the hall after 10.30am.”
 
 
