

 Even after all the acres of newsprint and miles of footage expended on him, there’s still a lot that isn’t known about  , the man who holds the all-time record for most Test wickets in a season (82 in 13 matches) and has been the fastest to 250 wickets in the world. Like the fact that he’ll often play with children who line up outside his home.
 
 “There was a kid with thick glasses, who’d be outside my home at 2pm in the Chennai heat,” recalls Ashwin. “When he took catches, the ball would bounce off his hands and hit him on the chest. One day, the seam cut his hand. 
 
 Bleeding, he tried to retrieve the ball but struggled to pick it up. I took him to a doctor and was told he has spatial dyslexia. Since then, anybody with spatial dyslexia who enrols in my cricket academy gets free coaching.”
 
 Intensely cerebral and unusually outspoken for an Indian cricketer, Ashwin was in his element as Guest Editor of The Times of India on Friday. He was fascinated by a large blow-up of the TOI front page reporting Mahatma Gandhi’s assassination, which is displayed in the office, and read every word.
 
 “Seeing the old pages made me feel very nostalgic about my childhood, when I would religiously read newspapers every day. Even today, when I’m home, I love the feeling of physically turning the pages of a paper over a nice cup of coffee,” said Ashwin.
 
 He doesn’t spend a lot of time online and is intensely wary of social media. “I think it’s filled with a lot of garbage. The print media has a responsibility to filter out the lies and sensationalism and present facts objectively.”
 
 But hasn’t he himself used social media to express rather forthright views on a variety of subjects, from jallikatu to politics in Tamil Nadu? “A lot has been happening in my state. I felt it was important that somebody take the bull by the horns. 
 
 I feel my state should not turned into a laughing stock.” He confessed, however, that sometimes he worries about his candour getting him into trouble. “We don’t have freedom of speech, it is curbed. 
 
 The moment I say something political, there will be stones pelted at my house; my family and I also have to live. We are always worried about mobs. I have lived peacefully in the heart of Chennai all my life and I want to continue doing so. I don’t want to have to flee the country that I love and that has given me so much. 
 
 But I do take a stand and there are many people who don’t like me because I take a stand. People often politicise the right intent that I have. At least a thousand people have told me not to comment on things, not to get perturbed.
 
 Everybody wants the other to be mum and that has become a way of life for us. I don’t know if we will be able to move forward as a nation if it goes on like this. I can’t urge the others to do it but at least I can do what my conscience tells me is right.”
 
 Ashwin said he likes the fact that newspapers have stepped up coverage of local news. 
 
 He also likes reading about business and, of course, sports. 
 
 However, as a person who believes passionately in causes (his foundation focuses on road safety, dyslexia, ensuring 100% electoral turnout, and eye and blood donations), he wishes that newspapers would focus more on “issues that really matter”. “I’m a bit of an entrepreneur myself, so I understand there’s a business imperative, but I do wish papers would pay more attention to social causes even if everyone doesn’t want to read about them. Also, I think you should really try to expand readership in the rural areas. Give the paper away free or at a huge discount if you have to.”
 
 As he pored through the news list, there was a brief debate on whether to take the news of the US launching missiles on a Syrian base on the front page. Ashwin was reluctant (“Don’t we have enough problems of our own?” he asked), but said he would defer to the judgment of the newsroom.
 
 Ashwin was not excited by most of the political stories (“I think as a country, we give too much importance to politicians,” he said) but he did feel strongly about Tarun Vijay’s comments on south Indians.
 
 “We constantly complain about racism abroad, but as a people we can be very racist too, particularly about our neighbours,” he said.
 
 A report that got his seal of approval was on four major high courts being headed by women judges. “That’s a very welcome trend,” he said. He also gave a thumbs-up to reports on attempts to create a childfriendly atmosphere in courts and efforts to tackle   pollution in the NCR.
 
 Belying his serious image, Ashwin also came up with a series of one-liners.
 
 Asked if one could reach his home in Chennai by simply asking a cabbie to go to ‘Ashwin’s house’, he quipped, “I don’t know. Why don’t you try it next time and get back to me?” When someone brought up the Indian team’s fetish for facial hair, he responded, “I can only speak for myself. I’m already very dark and I don’t want to get any darker,” tongue tucked firmly in cheek.
 
