NAGPUR: Even as habitat loss is one of the themes of   to be celebrated on Friday, to raise awareness on world’s wild animals, Maharashtra lost over 460   in last six years as compared to 74   during the same period.

 Forest department figures show that there is significant increase in number of leopard deaths as compared to the last couple of years. Between 2010 and 2016, 458 leopards have died, most of them in accidents. 
 
 The leopard deaths is around 7 times more than number of tigers whose number is 74 till February 2017. As compared to 66 leopards in 2015, 89 leopards died last year till December.
 
 Declining prey base, habitat loss and fight with tigers make leopards stray more out of their areas.   experts say at least one incident of leopard straying is reported everyday in some part of the country or the other.
 
 According to well-known leopard expert and wildlife biologist Vidya Athreya, leopards are much more in numbers than tigers. “Leopards can be spotted in many areas where humans reside. It makes them susceptible to poaching, road accidents and poisoning. In protected areas (PAs), tigers push out leopards to establish territories. As such, leopards go closer to human settlements,” she said.
 
 Athreya adds that leopards are more vulnerable as they also probably kill a lot more livestock than tigers do. It is a known fact that people tend to attack wild animals more when there is loss of livestock.
 
 Nitin Desai, Central India director of Wildlife Protection Society of India (WPSI) says, “Leopards have wider distribution as compared to tigers which are mainly found in East Maharashtra. As they live close to human habitations, leopards are more in conflict with humans than tigers,” he says.
 
 “This could be the reason behind large-scale retaliatory killing and accidental deaths. Local poaching yes, but there is no element of organized poaching in the deaths of leopards as far as I know,” he adds.
 
 Athreya says the situation is complex. “If we do not take cognisance of people’s problems, the repercussions on animals and forest departments can be severe. It is a known fact that easily-available pesticide thrown on a goat or a dog that has been killed by a leopard is an effective way of killing leopards,” she said.
 
 According to her, the priority should be to adequately compensate people who face “livestock losses”. “At the same time, they should be helped to protect their livestock. The present system of compensation is long drawn and not effective. We also have to accept that a lot of wildlife does live close to human settlements and that accidents are bound to happen,” said Athreya.
 
 Both suggested the only long-term solution is to decrease the interface between leopards and humans that control the availability of easy prey. “This can be done if we reduce organic waste around our settlements,” they say.
 
 
