 reiterates in English, the lesson he learnt in the Italian. "Don't forget, we are a team."

 In his first season after crossing the Channel, Conte is already the champion-elect halfway though the  . It is a beaten track for the Italian following his success with Turin's old lady,  . 
 
  has erased the memories of a dreadful 2015 under Antonio Conte. At the end of 2016, they are on top of the table, enjoying a six-point lead over second-placed Liverpool. Their 13-game unbeaten sequence has rewritten EPL history in the process.
 
 Chelsea's top gun, Diego Costa has spoken highly of the impact made by Conte this season and also stressed the significance of having a good team spirit in the dressing room.
 
 In an interview given to the club website, the Brazilian-born Spanish striker said, "The manager has come, he’s applied his ideas, and things are going well. The truth is the manager is good with the players, every time making more jokes with the players. That’s good for us, to have a manager who is not just a boss, but like a person we can talk with, someone whose support we can count on in difficult moments. He is calm with the players and you can see the people love him more all the time."
 
 The striker fired in his 14th goal of the season against Stoke City on Saturday.
 
 Costa added that he was hampered by injury problems for much of last season and came close to returning to   in the summer for family reasons.
 
 "I was about to leave but not because of Chelsea, because here there’s a lot of love with the supporters so I’m very happy here, I'm very content.
 The good feeling around the camp has, according to Diego Costa, combined with the effort being put in on the pitch to produce the formula which has embarked us on this record winning streak. "We will be going for victory number 14 in a row at White Hart Lane on Wednesday."
 
 "If you work hard and there’s not a good atmosphere, the work doesn’t mean a thing,’ Costa said.
 
 "You can run 20km, 80, 100, and if there’s no spirit between the players, the coaches, as colleagues, it won’t come out as well. Work goes well if you give your best with the guy beside you. The team is very good, when we win the atmosphere is like this, but it’s important that during the week we train seriously, so we approach games like this. It’s important to keep winning games."
 
 The sub-plot of this EPL season has been the rivalry between Conte and  's  . Conte has upstaged all the seers who had almost anointed the former Barcelona coach with the EPL title even before the season got off to a start.
 
 Conte had other ideas, of course. 
 
