BENGALURU: When it was launched in 2013, the programme ‘Shuddha Neeru’ was touted as a panacea for the drinking water woes of the people of Karnataka. One of the state government’s flagship projects, it entailed installation of reverse-osmosis (RO) machines to ensure that the people were provided pure drinking water. However, negligence of the authorities concerned has seen most of these machines – more than 8,000 have been installed in three and a half years – going defunct.

 Ironically, the rural development and panchayat raj (RDPR) department, responsible for implementing the project, appears least concerned with attending to these neglected machines, focusing instead on installing more units. Consecutive droughts have plunged the state into distress, and it is incumbent upon the authorities concerned to ensure that the people do not suffer owing to paucity of drinking water. 
 
 It was the success of RDPR minister HK Patil’s experiment with   before the 2013 assembly elections in Gadag, his home district, which inspired chief minister Siddaramaiah to announce the scheme in his first budget. More than 8,000 units of the planned 10,000 units have already been installed, with each costing around Rs 6 to 8 lakh. Agencies such as the Karnataka Rural Infrastructure Development Ltd (KRIDL), gram panchayats (GPs) , NGOs and corporate houses were roped in for the initiative.
 
 While the government will provide land and water connection for units commissioned by RDPR department, contractors who install the machine will maintain the same for five years, and recover their investment by charging 10 paise per litre in this period. On the other hand, GPs are responsible for maintenance of units installed by KRIDL and other agencies. While RO units in urban pockets appear to be in fine fettle, those in the villages are mostly dysfunctional – the consequence of poor maintenance, lack of security personnel among other reasons.
 
 In Nesargi, 30km from Belagavi, although the RDPR department installed two units a few months ago, the villagers have not received a drop of water. Bewilderingly, the department is now in the process of installing another unit in the village!
 
 “We can’t understand what’s happening. In other villages too, these units have been set up, but they are not working,” said Shekhar Mannurmath, a resident of Nesargi.
 
 In Vannur, another village in Belagavi, the contractor hasn’t returned after installing the RO unit two months ago. Attributing the failure of the scheme to the lack of planning, Vannur resident Ismail said, “The contractor just checked if the machine worked. It’s been shut since then. The department wanted to supply water from the borewell 2km away, but it has gone dry.”
 
 The situation is no different in many other villages across the state. In Sindhagi, Vijayapura district, a unit that was set up eight months ago has been defunct for half the period. “The water source for the machine went dry around four months ago, and the machine has been lying unused since. The local administration did not bother locating an alternative source, which is what they must do now given that summer is just around the corner,” said Ravutaraya, a resident of the town.
 
 Absence of a water source has also rendered the unit in Janakalu village in Hosadurga taluk in Chitradurga redundant. But the case is slightly stranger in Eeregowdanadoddi village in Mandya. “The machine for collecting coins was stolen two months ago, and despite repeated pleas, the authorities have not replaced it,” said Jayamma, a resident of the village.
 
 However, in a few villages, GPs and contractors have thrown their hands up citing shortage of funds. “It’s very difficult to maintain these units with the money we get from selling water. In many villages, we hardly get Rs 50 from the sales. So, we have decided to seek funds from the government for maintenance,” said a contractor in the old Mysuru region.
 
 Although elected representatives are well aware of the gravity of the problem and have raised the issue at various fora, their grievances have not been redressed. RDPR minister HK Patil, however, has maintained that all units are in working condition. “Come with me, I will show you how efficiently these units are working,” has been Patil’s consistent response when the issue has been raised either by legislators or the media.
 
 Leader of the opposition in the legislative council KS Eshwarappa too pointed out that most of these units were dysfunctional. “The less said the better about the safe water drinking units,” he said.
 
 A zilla panchayat member in Vijayapaura observed that officials installed these units without identifying water sources in the proximity, while in some locations, these units had no power connection. Voicing his suspicions over the motives of the scheme, he asked, “How can anyone explain why more units are being installed, while the ones set up are not functioning?”
 
 However, officials in the RDPR department affirmed that the scheme was yielding desired results, barring problems in a few places. “It’s wrong to say that the scheme isn’t working. A few units might not be functional, largely owing to the water sources going dry. But we are trying to address the problem,” said Ashok Vasanad, superintendent engineer, Belagavi division.
 
 Dry sources have seen machines going defunct
 
 It is true that some units have become defunct. It is mainly because many borewells, which used to supply water to these units, have gone dry due to summer. But such units are fewer than 10% of the total number of machines. The government has given a direction to the authorities concerned to supply water through tankers to such units.
 
 - H S Prakash Kumar | Chief Engineer, Rural Water Supply
 
