BATHINDA: At a time when efforts are being made by two left-leaning organisations Punjab Students Union ( ) and Naujawan Bharat Sabha (NBS) to change a hideout of Shaheed Bhagat Singh in Ferozepur into a museum and throw it open to public, the NGO, which owns the house, has reportedly agreed to sign an agreement with Punjab government to preserve and maintain it. The martyr is learnt to have shorn his hair in 1928 to change his appearance at this place.

 The two-storey house in   locality has three shops on the ground floor while a tenant resides on the upper storey, which was used as a hideout by freedom fighters, including Shaheed Bhagat Singh, for nearly six months in 1928-29. The building is owned by NGO Krishna Bhagti Satsang Trust. 
 
 Chandigarh-based social activist and advocate HC Arora said that, “The public information officer (PIO) in the office of Director, Cultural Affairs, Archaeology and Museum, Punjab, vide a letter dated February 15 has stated that the NGO has given consent for executing an agreement with the state government for preservation, maintenance and for throwing open the monument to public.” He said the PIO responded to his query under the RTI Act regarding efforts being made by the state government to preserve the place u/s 6 of the Punjab Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1964, in pursuance of a judgment passed by the Punjab and   high court on October 17. In the order the court had asked the state government to make efforts to preserve the place. 
 
 Section 6 of the Act envisages that, “The director shall propose to the owner of such building within a specified period for the maintenance of the monument. It further provides that an agreement under this section may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely (a) the maintenance of the monument and (b) restriction of the owner’s right to destroy, remove, alter or deface the monument. Besides, such an agreement may include the provisions for “the facilities of access to be permitted to public or any section thereof or to an archaeological officer, persons deputed by the owner, any archaeological officer, other officer or authority authorized by the government to inspect or maintain the monument.” 
 
 Trust convener Rajinder Dhawan told TOI that, “The state government have in the past approached us for such an agreement. We have given our consent, but are waiting for the government response.” 
 
 Ferozepur deputy commissioner Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal said, “Efforts are being made to sign an agreement and preserve the place of historical importance.”
 
 Meanwhile, Ferozepur resident Rakesh Kumar, who spearheaded a campaign for getting Shaheed Bhagat Singh‘s hideout vacated, PSU president Rajinder Singh and NBS convener   said that, “Thousands of activists will converge at Hussainiwala on March 23 on the 86th martyrdom day of Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev and will demand turning the hideout into museum and throwing it open to public. Preparations are in full swing for the protest.” 
 
