HYDERABAD: The   of Telangana Prohibition and   on Thursday arrested four customs officials of   (RGIA) for selling duty-free foreign liquor in the open market after procuring them using passports of unsuspecting international passengers.

 The arrested officials would take the passports on some pretext, use it to buy premium liquor from the dutyfree outlet inside RGIA and sell them to agents involved in illegal liquor trade.
 
 The arrested customs officials have been identified as superintendent Parthasa rathy and havildars Prabhakar, Kanakaiah and Lakshmaiah. During the raids at the residences of the foursome, 266 bottles of duty-free liquor were found.
 
 An international flyer is eligible to buy two duty-free liquor bottles upon arrival by furnishing passport and   ticket. To exploit this facility given to the passengers, the customs officials would take their passports and tick ets on the pretext of verifying them. Then they would pass documents to the `contingents', who would buy liquor from the duty-free outlet. In their hurry, passengers wouldn't bother to check if their passports were misused.
 
 “They would purchase duty-free liquor bottles of foreign brands and later smuggle them out of the airport. They would sell it to those who are into illegal foreign liquor trade. Both the customs officials and traders would make some clean money in the process even as the government lost considerable revenue,'' a source in the excise department told TOI. Excise officials said that it was difficult to speculate for how long the arrested officials carried out this unlawful activity . A thorough police probe would be conducted to find out if more customs officials were involved in the liquor racket and if those working at the duty-free outlet were hand in glove with them.
 
 According to excise officials, the profit margin in this line of activity varies between 86 per cent and 150 per cent, depending on the brands (their blend, rarity among others). According to an excise official, the per-day loss to the exchequer because of this ongoing illegal trade was between the range of `5-7 lakh.
 
 “From the confessional statements of the arrested custom officials and private individuals who were brought for questioning, it appears to be a well-organised racket with almost 150 to 200 bottles being spirited away everyday using this modus operandi,“ enforcement director (excise) Akun Sabharwal said in a press note.
 
 Raids were conducted at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport till late on Thursday night.
 
