Nagpur: Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technolgoy (VNIT) on Friday awarded 60 PhDs, three MTech (by research), 312 MTech, 649 BTech in various engineering disciplines and six BArch degrees during it 15th convocation ceremony held at its auditorium.

 VNIT director Narendra Chaudhari told the passing out students that they would be the brand ambassador of the institute and will be an active partner in its future progress. “Today is a very special day for the graduating class of 2017 as it is entering professional life. I am sure that with optimism, passion and enthusiasm, you will spread your wings to reach new heights in professional as well as personal life,” he told them.
 
 The premier institute also felicitated students and scholars with 105 medals, prizes and awards. Suyash Nilawar of BTech Mechanical engineering was awarded the coveted Sir Visvesvaraya Gold Medal for securing the highest CGPA of 9.84 among all branches.
 
 Archana V of BTech civil engineering and Nilawar were also awarded the highest number of awards.
 
 “On behalf of the VNIT fraternity, I would like to offer heartiest congratulation to all the graduates and award winners. I hope that this a just a beginning of your bright future and glorious professional growth,” Chaudhari said.
 
 He added that the institute has been ranked as one of the best engineering institutes by various agencies in engineering survey. “VNIT has been ranked first among all NITs and sixth best technological institutes in the country in 2017. The institute has secured second rank among all NITs by Outlook Magazine in 2017,” he said.
 
 Chaudhari said the impeccable record was the reason VNIT continued to provide expertise to the state and central government agencies in creating new infrastructure. “This has been evidenced in steady growth in the earnings, patents, and research papers,” he said.
 
 The director said faculty members too have been contributing in research and development in a big way.
 
 This year, Chaudhari and professors Hiralal Suryawanshi, and Niranjan Thote participated in several international conferences while other faculty members Vasant Mhaisalkar, Rajesh Gupta, Yashwant Katpatal, Rahul Ralegaonkar and Madhuwanti Latkar were part of global forums on climate change.
 
 In his address, Vishram Jamdar, chairman of Board of Governors, said VNIT must strive to be among the 20 world class universities the Centre is planning to set up. “How can we accept this challenge? You will have to see the benchmarks of all the top 100 universities. They have full autonomy. No interference of government or its agencies, sound funding, endowment funds, good support from alumni and corporate sector are some of the reasons for their achievements,” he said.
 
 
