MUMBAI: Innovation and styling will be central to Nissan Motor’s effort to revive sales under its   nameplate in India.
 
  The Japanese auto major’s valuecar brand, which is close to completing three years in India, is lagging expectations with sluggish growth. As against the target of selling 200,000 units in three years to end of FY17, Datsun has managed to sell only 80,000 units so far.
  
  Vincent Cobee, global head of the Datsun brand, told ET that the company aims to reinforce modernity, Japanese quality and styling to carve a niche for itself in a segment, where its sister company, Renault, managed to break the stranglehold of leaders Maruti Suzuki and Hyundai with its premium compact car Kwid.
  
  “In India, we are still in the learning phase. We are entering the lifecycle of the brand. We will continuously upgrade our products,” said Cobee. “The Indian market leads on cost, features, service in the entry car space. As Datsun, we will try to bring modern style, modern technologies quicker than the others.”
  
  Datsun accounts for more than 50% of the cars that   sells, and despite the stop-start attempt, Cobee is hopeful that the brand will top 125,000 units in annual sales by the end of the decade, when the Indian market is expected to touch 5 million units.
  
  Revived after three decades, Datsun has managed to sell about 250,000 units globally, significantly lower than what the company expected. India accounts for a third of that.
  
  In a recent interview with ET, Carlos Ghosn, the global CEO of Renault Nissan, had said, “There is one key element that a carmaker needs to have right, and that is the product. No matter how strong the brand is, Indian consumers will discard the product if it is not right. This is the big lesson for us.” Ghosn was referring to Datsun, which relaunched in India, Indonesia and Russia in 2014 with a hatchback named Go.
  
  According to people in the know, apart from exploring the launch of   in India, Datsun will be looking at enhancing the style quotient of existing models with more connectivity features, automatic transmission and introduction of mild hybrid technology over the next three to four years.
