NAGPUR: Two years after the new Maharashtra Public Universities Act was first introduced, it has all set to become a reality from Wednesday.

 On January 26, TOI first reported that the new Act would be implemented before the budget session of assembly, slated to commence from March 6.
 
 The state government would come up with a notification regarding implementation of the Act. It would contain guidelines and directives on its implementation. It would take a minimum six months for conducting polls from the date of Act’s implementation. If it’s cleared in March, then the universities would be able to hold polls by September-October.
 
 The department of higher and technical education would be conducting an orientation programme on March 3 for all stakeholders on the new Act’s implementation, which would take at least a year for all the universities. Vice-chancellors, registrars, Board of College and   Development (BCUD) directors, directors and joint directors for higher and technical education, and others would be invited for the programme to be held at Sahayadri Guest House, Malabar Hills, in Mumbai.
 
 “The Act would be officially notified from March 1 and the universities will be given six months till August 31 for implementation, including making new appointments. The government is fully prepared to implement the new law,”  , deputy secretary with the state higher and technical education department, told TOI.
 
 With its implementation, the Maharashtra Universities Act, 1994, which became obsolete since long, would cease to exist automatically.
 
 Earlier, the government had constituted a panel to bring uniformity in various statutes governing all state universities to make it easier for them to implement the new Act. Even a panel was constituted for the purpose, because of which official implementation of the new Act was delayed.
 
 “We’ve decided to notify the new Act without waiting for other things. The work for uniform statutes would take some time. The new Act is really good and will bring major reforms in the education sector, if implemented properly. We’ve made it student-centric and increased their participation in the decision making bodies like the management council. Now, those elected on the students council can sit in management council meetings,” Kharat added.
 
 The historic bill was unanimously cleared by the assembly and council during the winter session in Nagpur on December 8. Billed as student-centric, the new Act will provide much-needed respite to the sportspersons, NCC and   activists, who can’t participate in major events when examinations were underway. Among major changes in comparison to the old Act, the new one made it mandatory for all universities and colleges to set up ‘Vishakha Cell’ to curb growing incidents of sexual harassment and strongly deal with them.
 
 
