HUBBALLI:   (KIMS) has decided to introduce   (Pacs) to store and view patients’ history. This system is expected to help   go paperless as doctors will get all the information on their fingertips when they enter the patient’s unique ID number.

 Dr Shivappa Anurshettar, medical superintendent, KIMS, said that the system will be installed with an investment of Rs 1 crore. Short-time tender notification will be issued shortly, he said. “Over 1,500 patients visit KIMS every day and over 1,000 emergency and accident victims are being admitted. It’s hectic for the staff to search patients’ case papers on a daily basis. Pacs is the best solution to avoid this lengthy process and will also help us go paperless,” he said.
 
 He added: “The registration of patient’s name at outpatient division is the only process; all other steps will be paperless. Photo, x-ray,  ,   reports, angiography, doctor’s name and everything will appear on the computer screen. Patients will get medicines at KIMS drug outlets after entering their unique ID number.”
 
 He said that Pacs will save the time and money of patients. “Pacs server will be linked with other private practitioners who can upload patients’ information through the server from their hospitals. It will help to treat patients during emergencies and KIMS doctors need not wait for patients’ previous reports. Expenses will be reduced by 20-25% as previous x-ray, CT and MRI scan reports are uploaded to the server’ he asserted.
 
 Dr Seetaram Kallimani, a doctor with KIMS, stated that staff have started to collect patients’ data and are uploading them to the server. “They are using the Aadhaar number of patients to find out patients’ identification immediately. Doctors will get patients’ information through their login number in a fraction of seconds,” he informed.
 
 “KIMS was in need of such an  . Maintaining patients’ case papers is not easy here as the number of patients is increasing by the day. This problem will be solved if Pacs is installed,” said Avinash Haramagatti, a trainee doctor at KIMS.
 
 
