MUMBAI: The   airport is still on the drawing board, but on the ground, tall buildings that could act as obstructions along the approach path of aircraft once the   is operational are already in place. 

 Citizens who bought flats in the highrises located along the approach path might be in for bad news as a   against these obstacles has been filed in the Bombay high court by an advocate who had similarly moved a plea against obstructions around Mumbai airport. The PIL is expected to come up for hearing next week.
 
 All buildings within a 20-km radius of the proposed airport come under height curbs. Within a 4-km radius from the centre point of the airport (and its runways), buildings can rise only to 45m (about 15 storeys assuming the airport and the plot are on the same level). Those on the flight approach paths of the two parallel runways face further restrictions.
 
 Several buildings in Kamothe, Khandeshwar and New Panvel East, lying east of the proposed airport, would come under the approach paths. Many others are within the 4-km radius and include those on the northwest of the airport, mainly in Belapur. 
 
 The PIL has been filed by Yeshwanth Shenoy, an advocate, who has moved against obstructions around airports in Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai and Thiruvananthapuram too. “The petitioner wants to ensure that buyers are specifically warned by the state authorities on the nature of their right getting affected by the Aircraft Act. The right to life and the right to shelter, guaranteed by the state under Article 21 of the Constitution, would both get affected and, therefore, the state authorities are duty-bound to protect these rights of the people,” says his PIL of 2017, filed against seven respondents, including the Airports Authority of India and Cidco, the planning authority for Navi Mumbai and the nodal authority for the Navi Mumbai airport.
 
 After his Mumbai airport PIL, Shenoy incurred the wrath of airport area residents as the aviation regulator issued demolition notices to over 100 buildings in Vile Parle, Santacruz, Ghatkopar and Kurla in June-July this year. Now, it seems like the 37-year-old could become one of the victims. “In 2006, I pooled my life savings, took a bank loan and bought a three-bedroom flat on the 10th floor of a 12-storey building in Kamothe,’’ said Shenoy. “It’s located about 2km from the proposed Navi Mumbai airport and so I, too, might be served a demolition notice. I’ve not yet paid off the 25-year EMI on the loan,” he added.
 
 His PIL says that once the obstacle survey for the Navi Mumbai airport is carried out, the operator will initiate action to demolish buildings before the airport starts functioning. The court could ensure safety of residents and prevent waste of public money because of poor planning.
 
 Shenoy alleged that the respondents haven’t performed the duties they were entrusted with and are not even taking steps to mitigate the potential damage. “The petitioner is certain that in the current scenario, an accident is imminent and inevitable,” the PIL says.
 
 Soma Vijaykumar, chief general manager in charge of Navi Mumbai airport development, said they hadn’t yet heard about the PIL. “Post-2012, all buildings were given no-objection certificates by Cidco for height restrictions in accordance with the AAI’s norms,’’ he said. From 2007, Cidco by itself used to issue height clearance NOCs.
 
 “Some of the buildings that got NOCs before 2012 may become obstructions once the airport is ready,” Vijaykumar accepted. “However, before the airport is commissioned, an obstacle survey is carried out and notices to reduce the height might be served to certain buildings or the runway threshold would be displaced so as to keep the   obstruction free,’’ he added.
 
 In the coming months, the buildings around the proposed Navi Mumbai airport will be divided into those who got lucky and steered clear of the approach path of aircraft and those that didn’t. Shenoy might lose his flat. But he is clear where his priorities lie. “As an advocate, I see despair on a daily basis, people losing businesses, homes, etc. But I can tell you with the utmost certainty, what hurts the most is the loss of life. Life once lost can never be regained, for everything else we still have a chance,’’ he said.
 
 
