Delhi-based band   brought the curtains down on  , the annual cultural festival of   in  . The band performed on the last day of the festival on Sunday as part of the star night. The day kicked off with a face painting competition, which was followed by the University's annual ball and Astitva's performance at night. 

 
 
  
  Salman Khan from Astitva performed on the last day of the fest (BCCL/ Lokesh Kashyap)
 
 
  
 The students of Bennett University organized a face painting competition on the second day of the fest. They were given 'Vice and Virtue' as the theme to paint the faces of their team members. While some students painted the face of The Joker from the movie 'The Dark Knight', others experimented with characters like Deadpool and Batman.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  Nandana Varshna, who participated in the competition with her teammate Cairo Gulati, told us, "Since the theme was 'Vice and Virtue', I painted half of my partner's face with flowers, which signified a positive aspect, while the other half was painted black.The first half was like heaven and the remaining half like hell. We didn't pick any particular character from any movie for the competition."
 
  Prateek Soni, who painted Shaurya Vir Singh's face like The Joker from the movie, 'The Dark Knight' added, "We thought that this was the right character to go with the theme."
 
 
 
  
  Salman and the band Astitva performing at the university (BCCL/ Lokesh Kashyap)
 
  
 Before Astitva's performance, the students had also organized a masquerade ball as part of the fest. Though the masks were missing from the ball, the students nevertheless seemed very excited about it. While the boys were dressed in formal suits, the girls wore long gowns and dresses.  , who choreographed a performance at the ball, told us, "We had been practicing for the last few days and we were really excited about the ball. Many colleges don't organize events like these – we were pretty lucky to have had this ball."
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  As the ball ended, Astitva took over the stage. "Are you guys ready to rock with us? This is the first time we are performing here and we are really excited to be here," said Salman Khan, the lead vocalist of the band. The band started its performance with its song, 'Tu Hi Bata', and also sang Hindi film songs like 'Dil Chahta Hai', 'Kabira' and 'Saibo' during the performance. 
 
 
 
  
  Nandana Varshna painting Cairo Gulati's face at a face painting competition
 
 
 
 
  
  Reema Dabas and Swar Mata matching steps at the masquerade ball (BCCL/ Lokesh Kashyap)
 
 
 
  
  Shiva Parvati painting Deepak Yadlapalya's face
 
 
 
