NAGPUR: With an aim to checking uncivilized behaviour of residents, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) will soon come up with a monitoring squad, Nuisance Detection Squad, to ensure cleanliness and orderly life in the city. This was disclosed by leader of ruling BJP in the civic body   at a meeting at   attended by mayor Nanda Jichkar, city MLAs and corporators.

 Joshi, while explaining in detail about the squad’s structure and aim, said the 151-strong squad will be manned by ex-servicemen. “A person found spitting on the street may be fined Rs50 and similar fines would be imposed on littering by residents within five feet of a house. A vacant plot, if not secured and used for garbage dumping, could be seized by the NMC. Those defacing walls and pasting posters, billboards and hoardings illegally will also have to pay the penalty,” he said.
 
 Apart from 151 members who will be deployed in every prabhag, there will be one zonal head in each of the ten civic zones and an overall in-charge of the squad, making the total number of the team to 161, said Joshi. These members to be drawn from disciplined ex-servicemen will be paid handsomely for the civic work. A tender will be floated soon to appoint the agency forming the squad, he said.
 
 At the outset of the briefing, Joshi further said the NMC revenues are falling and new ways to garner resources will be devised. One-time settlement schemes and amnesty plans will be implemented to recover dues from residents, he said.
 
 MLA   thanked chief minister  , and city MP and Union minister Nitin Gadkari for bringing in huge funds and accelerating the development works despite tight financial situation in the state and the NMC. City BJP organizing secretary Bhojraj Dumbe said 1,914 booth-level agents have been appointed to work at grassroot level.
 
 Students to be honoured on CM’s birthday
 
 Nagpur West MLA   announced a programme to celebrate chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’ 47th birthday in the city on July 22. 
 
 “In keeping with studious nature of the chief minister, it will be appropriate to identify meritorious students in each prabhag and honour them at ward-level functions on that day to mark CM’s birthday,” Deshmukh said.
 
 “It will be recognition of Fadnavis’ good work as chief minister and also his contribution to the city right from his days as young corporator, then mayor and later as state BJP chief,” the MLA said. The city unit has urged Fadnavis to be present here on that day.
 
 
