Mumbai: Markets regulator   on Thursday allowed brokers to merge their equity and   operations under a single entity, fulfilling a long standing demand from the broking community. The move could lower operational as well as trading costs for brokers. It may also lead to use of margin money deposited with stock exchanges by brokers to be used in commodity derivatives exchanges (Commexes) and vice versa — called margin fungibility in market parlance.

 Sebi’s decision comes nearly two years after the Forward Markets Commission ( ), the erstwhile regulator for commodity derivatives operations in India, was merged with it. The current move to merge stock and commodity broking operations is also seen as a precursor to the regulator allowing stock exchanges to start commodity derivatives trading platforms and vice versa, top industry players said. According to a veteran, since commodity brokers are already used to trading on the commexes till 11.30 pm, this move by Sebi could eventually lead to an extension of trading time on the stock exchanges as well.
 
 At present, 70-80% of the total turnover in the commodity derivatives market comes from those brokers who also contribute significant trading volumes in the stock broking segment of the market. So naturally the move “could lead to reduction in operating costs”, said Jayant Manglik, president (retail distribution),  . “The move is good for clients because margin will be fungible. Also, imminent implementation of commodity options becomes easier as equity dealers are already familiar with the product,” Manglik said.
 
 Market players, however, said that there could be a potential downside. “With a large number of dealers and brokers in the market mainly on stock and stock derivatives as the preferred asset classes, the focus on commodities as an asset class could reduce. Since the same dealer will now trade in equity, commodity and currency for clients and it is difficult to master all three at once, turnover on the commodity derivatives exchanges may fall,” said a broking house official.
 
 
