HYDERABAD: A weed commonly found on roadsides in Hyderabad and elsewhere in the country may have the potential to fight the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).

 Experiments conducted by researchers at the Department of Zoology, Infectious Diseases and Metabolic Diseases Research Laboratory, Kakatiya University in Warangal, show that the molecule obtained from the weed Aerva lanata had up to 91% efficacy in fighting HIV. Synthetic drugs presently used for HIV treatment have side effects. Researchers hope that since the molecule taken from Aerva lanata is natural, it may not have any negative impact.
 
 “We have suggested that medical universities and major research institutions conduct clinical research on our laboratory finding to corroborate the results in patients as we cannot do tests on human beings,“ said Dr  , one of the researchers.
 
 The roots of the weed have been in use by tribals in the forests of Khammam fro ages.Tribals have been using the plant for a number of bacterial and viral diseases. “We collected the weed from jungles as part of the ethnomedical research and found it effective in fighting HIV. In fact, tribals have been using the plant for people with HIV-like symptoms,“ Dr Estari told TOI.
 
 Dr Estari along with Dr   published the lab results in the latest issue of the Pharmacognosy Journal.
 
 “The extracts of Aerva la nata showed inhibitory activity on HIV. The results are remarkable and can be used to develop a new drug for HIV treatment or other infectious diseases caused by the pathogenic micro-organisms, for which plant sterols may play a distinctive role,“ Dr Estari said. He said further work is in progress to evaluate the active compound obtained from the weed. “It has the potential to inhibit the enzyme called HIV reverse transcriptase (RT). The highest inhibition was 91%.The least percentage of inhibition was 77.5%. This is as against the anti-HIV drug, which showed 91.7% efficacy,“ he said.
 
 He said the plant contains certain phytochemical compounds that make it a potential future drug for HIV. It has substantial medicinal merit. The plant also helps in lowering blood cholesterol levels. The active compound can also provide molecules which could be useful for the synthesis of new broad spectrum antibiotics for treatment of various infections, besides battling HIV .
 
