MANGALURU: While Delhi police’s plans to integrate its distress call number 100 with mobile handsets is yet to materialise as was assured to the   in October last year, in the interim, you can use an Android app developed by a Bengaluru-based software developer.

 The molestation incidents on New Year's Eve on M G Road, Bengaluru, shocked app developer Krishna Kant Tiwari, who developed Ausodhyatmika, a free app for providing information about generic medications with the same formulations. He said, “What bothered me was that in spite of preventive measures available that could be used to alert family members as well as police along with proof in the form of video recording as well as location tracking, people are still unaware of the app. It could be be very useful in such situations.”
 
 The app’s new version incorporated more safety features in November for which it got the Mobile for Good Awards 2016 under the Health category by Nasscom last year.
 
 Tiwari said: “The news about Delhi police’s assurance to the Delhi High Court got me thinking. How will existing mobile handset users do till the integration happens? It took me a few months to get the safety features, including video recording as well as location tracking, in the app. We cannot expect millions of mobile users to change their handsets just because of one feature. Now, users can change when manufacturers integrate the feature in the mobile.”
 
 The advocate for Delhi Police Meera Bhatia had informed the high court about the proposed steps during a hearing on a PIL where the court is monitoring steps taken to improve women’s safety. Bhatia informed the court that as per the current plan, the panic button will be introduced in handsets from next year. It will not only help women in alerting police but also reduce the response time for cops to reach the caller.
 
 The app also provides details about availability of ambulances within a vicinity of 5kms based on the users’ GPS location, blood banks, hospitals, clinics, nursing homes, pathology labs, diagnostics, pharmacies and veterinary hospitals that are registered with the central government. 
 
 (For details: https://www.ketto.org/fundraiser/auso)
 
