HYDERABAD: Students will now have to wait for at least 10 more days to find out which colleges have made the cut and managed to secure an affiliation. This as the   (JNTU-H) has now issued a deficiency report to all technical colleges and asked them to upload their compliance report by May 29.To top it, the varsity has also issued showcause notices to more than 50 technical colleges over the past three days asking them to explain why classes are not being conducted before semester exams.

 “Colleges with a deficiency in faculty , laboratory and other facilities, may appeal online within 10 days from the date of issue of the report.Since the major faculty recruitment has been completed be fore the Fact Finding Committee (FFC) visit, the request for nominees will be considered only for minor deficiencies such as one or two faculty shortage,“ said N Yadaiah, registrar of JNTU-H. He added that all the colleges have been issued the deficiency report irrespective of whether there is any deficiency or not and said that the one who has some deficiency should rectify it by this month end.
 
 However, the registrar refrained from putting a number to the colleges found with deficiencies. “A software has generated the reports, so we don't know exactly how many colleges have deficiencies,“ is all he said.
 
 Talking about the showcause notices, the registrar said, “During the surprise visits, we noticed that some of the colleges were not conducting classes as per schedule.So, we have issued notices asking them to explain why `class work' is not being conducted.“ Apart from that, the college managements have also been instructed to clear all dues, including common service fee and affiliation fee, immediately , failing which they won't be cleared for the counselling process.
 
 The varsity's move has clearly not gone down well with college managements who alleged that JNTU was issuing these notices at the last moment so that colleges do not get affiliation and will also not have enough time to seek legal help before counselling.
 
 “The affiliation process began somewhere in February and till date, the university has been sending notices. Earlier, they used to complete this by May ,“ said K Ramadass, coconvener of the Telangana Private College Managements' Association.
 
 Even students agreed that it would have been better had the list of affiliated colleges been released before the Eamcet results -scheduled for May 22-so that they could have a fair idea about just what colleges they can opt for during the counselling.
 
 “If they had released the list by now, choosing options during counselling would be much easier for us. Now we have to take some last minute decisions,“ said   A, a student of  , who is currently waiting for her Eamcet results.
 
