

 SRINAGAR: Just behind the spired gatehouses of Jama Masjid in the old city, modestly dressed teenage girls and young women walk through a teeming street, and many stop to buy à la mode   and abayas at ‘Haya-un-Nisa’ (demure women’s veil), which was not very long ago known as Suraj Tailors. 
 
 Like the name of the shop, Kashmiri women’s   has changed.
 
 Set up in 1980, the tailor shop used to stitch Kashmir’s traditional kameez salwar (tunic and trousers), worn with a chiffon, georgette or crepe dupatta (stole) by both Muslim and Pandit women. Most Muslim women used to cover their heads either loosely or tucked behind their ears.
 
 “No one knew my father’s real name, Bashir Sahab, at the time. He was so popular for his immaculate stitching that everyone called him Suraj, the brightest,” says Touseef, who now runs the shop that sells designer abayas (cloak) and burqas (full body veil), most of them manufactured in Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru and some imported from Dubai. “I changed the name because it is a Hindi word and it did not go with the new line of our business,” he adds.
 
 
  
 The transformation, he says, occurred during 1988-90, with the breakout of militancy in the state.
 
 Islamist militant groups like Al-Fatah, Hezbollah and Allah Tigers issued this conservative dress code of burqa and abaya for Muslim women and threatened violence if they didn’t comply. Orthodox denominations of Islam see the female body only as a sexual temptation, and therefore want it fully concealed from men unrelated by blood or marriage.
 
 Some of the women who refused to wear veils were attacked with acid, and those who wore jeans were shot in the leg. “I was a teenager in 1990 and had never covered up until one day when Dukhtaran-e-Millat (an Islamist women’s group) members threw ink on me in the street,” says Zainab (name changed) who bought two designer abayas for herself and her teenaged daughter from Kashmir’s largest abaya market in Nowhatta.
 
 
  
 
 A downtown resident and a working woman, Zainab doesn’t wear the abaya or burqa anymore but her daughter who grew up in the 27 years of violent conflict and an increasingly conservative society, does. “I am not afraid now and no one bothers me either. But my daughter, a high school student, has chosen to cover herself. She is a bit religious. She is aware of all the chic hijabs (head covering) and abayas. It is all on the internet. Arab countries are setting the trends. My daughter browses all the latest designs and wears whatever is the in thing,” the mother says. 
 
 Touseef displays these new trends in his shop — black embroidered and artwork abayas, caftans cut from the popular Saudi fabric Nida Firdous, which can be worn with a niqab, covering the whole body except eyes, jilbab (Iranian chaddar), front-open abayas, front-closed burqas that cover the whole body except head, feet and hands. The latest, he points out, is the jean abaya, made of denim fabric.
 
 “Mostly high school, college-going girls and young brides are regular customers in the market. Women in Kashmir imitate Dubai and Saudi fashion sense more. It is a pity that simple burqas are outdated. The only women who wear unpretentious burqas in Kashmir are girls of Darul Uloom madrassas,” says Touseef.
 
 
  
 
 Touseef regrets that Afghani (one-piece veil that hangs down covering the face and the whole body), chudidaar and baggy burqas tailored from long-lasting butter crepe and peach fabric, once favoured by old Kashmiri Muslim women, do not have any takers now.
 
 There were three tailors in the Nowhatta market in the 1980s. Now, Touseef says, there are over a dozen shops in the same trade, even though most of them have no family or traditional background in tailoring or garment sales. Nowhatta’s abaya market is the distributor to all the districts in the entire Kashmir valley. Haya-un-Nisa, which manufactures locally as well with over 15 designers at a workshop in Hawal, sells cloaks worth Rs 40,000 per day on an average.
 
 Despite the flourishing family business that runs by selling both simple and fancy veils to the women of Kashmir, Touseef’s own sister does not wear it. “It is her choice. In Islam, we cannot impose it on anyone. But I will gift it to my would-be wife and expect that she covers herself,” he says. 
 
