JODHPUR: In one of the major rescue operations by the army in the flood-hit   district, 540 girls were rescued on Friday night from Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar Girls Hostel in Bhainswara of Ahor sub-division of the district.

 The hostel was waterlogged on Friday night after the water released from Jawai dam flooded many parts of Jalore district. About 540 girls and teachers were stranded in the hostel and considering the situation, the administration sought the help of army.
 
 “We evacuated 540 girls and teachers along with other staff from the hostel on Friday night and shifted them to a safer place where all of them were provided with the medical aid and food,” said defence spokesperson Manish Ojha.
 
 Meanwhile, amid the worsening flood situation in Jalore district caused by the incessant rain and rise of water after opening of the gates of Jawai dam to release the excess water, the army has roped in three columns for rescue and relief operations in Sanchore, Ahor and Jalore at South bank of the river Jawai. Two bridges over this river between Sumerpur and Sheoganj and between Ahor and Jalore have collapsed by Saturday morning.
 
 Water released from Jawai dam has caused a major havoc on its way to Jalore city severing the road and rail link of the city with other towns. Railway station of the town is completely submerged in the water leading to suspension of all the rail services to the city.
 
 According to the Superintending Engineer Pratap Singh, 80000 cusecs water has been released from the dam on Friday night through all the gates. On Saturday morning all the gates were shut except 3, which have been releasing the excess water from the dam.
 
 Taking the seriousness of the issue, the administration sounded alert in about 120 villages and localities around the river and evacuated many low lying threat-prone areas.
 
 “We have shifted about 7000 persons to the safer places amid the threat of water and accommodated 720 persons at the help centers across the city”, said the district collector L N Soni.
 
 However, the administration has heaved a sigh of relief after a pause in the spell of rain in Jalore district on Saturday, Except Ahor there was no major rain has been reported in the district which has facilitated the rescue operations.
 
 According to met department, Raniwara of the district has recorded the highest rain at 1,285 mm this season, while Jalore city has received 800 mm, Sanchore 916 mm and Ahor has received 519 mm rain.
 
 Amid this grim flood scenario, the chief minister Vasundharay Raje also took off to take stock of the flood situation in Jalore but her chopper could not land due to bad weather and returned after a partial aerial survey of Pali and Sirohi.
 
