Mumbai: As   in class X and XII will appear for examinations in a new pattern from   (March 2019), teachers are worried about the constant changes and the disadvantage they could have as compared to their peers from other boards.

 Starting this academic year, class IX students will not have   for languages and social sciences. Similarly, class XI students will have a new paper pattern for chemistry, physics, biology and maths. The pattern has been changed so that students fare better in entrance exams like   and  . In all the four subjects, around 20% of questions will be ‘difficult’. The changes will affect students appearing for the 2019 exams.
 
 Sanjay Patil, headmaster of a school, said, “In Class X, the internal marks were for skills like reading and reciting. These are very important for the development of one’s personality. Students get better at writing when they know how to read well and the oral exams were helping them in it. Students from other boards have up to 40% marks for internal assessment and this will leave our high scorers at a disadvantage.”
 
 Vasant Kalpande, former chairperson of the board, feels the changes could affect academically weaker students. “Students who excel in academics may score 94% instead of 95%. It will however affect students who could use the marks from oral exams to achieve the minimum pass marks as not everyone can write well. There might have been cases of dishonesty but the board should have taken steps to tackle that instead of getting rid of the oral exams completely. This way only the students are getting punished.”
 
 Parents too are unhappy with the frequent changes the board has proposed in the recent past. “The extra marks for sports were discontinued in 2013 and restarted last year—so three batches did not get its advantage. Similarly, students had the advantage of the internal assessment in languages until now, but the next batches wouldn’t have it. The board should plan for a few years in advance,” said Anil Rokade, a parent of a class XI student.
 
 
