NAGPUR: Slow rehabilitation of encroachers at Dobi Nagar slums has stalled the crucial 6.5-km-long Kalamna-Nagpur double rail line project, without which Nagpur cannot dream of development by way of additional trains and smooth flow of passenger as well as freight traffic.

 The vital Rs 21-crore project was announced in the   of 2007-08 to ease congestion on Howrah-Mumbai railway route. The cost of the crucial roject has now escalated to Rs 37 crore.
 
 “Presently, there are only two twin single lines — one to Kalamna and another to Itwari. Double line will pave the way for smooth movement of trains, which are now either held up at Kalamna or Nagpur stations, and there is always a fight as to who will go first. Double line will do away with this constraint,” said senior railway officials.
 
 Top officials said daily there is handing over and taking over of at least 23 mail express trains between Nagpur and Kalamna. Of these, 16 move on Kalamna line and 7 on Itwari line.
 
 “More pressure is on Kalamna line and trains move under absolutely block system. Double line will allow more trains to pass and ease congestion. Trains will not have to wait at the outer. More trains from Bilaspur direction can also be admitted on platform No. 8 at Santra Market side,” they said.
 
 It has been almost a decade but encroachments have stalled the crucial project with local leaders not pushing for it for political gains. At times, it was stalled for lack of police protection and legal hurdles too. In all, there were 187 encroachments on railway land. Of these, 110 were removed by   (SECR) in 2016.
 
 Senior divisional commercial manager Arjun Sibal of SECR, which is executing the project, said, “There is no issue from our side. There are 73 encroachments remaining in the 200m area. Of this, 57 encroachers are eligible and 40 of them have deposited 10% amount with  , which is allotting houses to them. Once these encroachments go, we will start yard linking and non-interlocking works.”
 
 NMC’s Ajay Pohekar, executive engineer with   (SRA), said 17 encroachers have not yet deposited any money.
 
 “We are giving alternative houses to eligible residents under Basic Services for Urban Poor (BSUP) scheme at Wanjra in North Nagpur. All 40 encroachers who deposited 10% money will start moving out from Monday,” Pohekar said.
 
 However, both NMC and railways have failed to meet all the set deadlines. All encroachments were to be removed by December 2016. Now, a final deadline has been set for April 2017.
 
 Earlier, it was told that NMC is shifting the encroachers to Nara-Nari area. Pohekar said at Nara-Nari, work of constructing 544 dwellings is in process.
 
 “If all the encroachments are removed by April, we will need at least 45 days to complete earth, electric, signalling and interlocking works and complete the project. The entire double line has been laid, barring in the 200m portion,” said a construction department official of SECR.
 
