GANDHINAGAR: Aging aircraft – both helicopters and planes — used by chief ministers, ministers and senior officials in different states pose a risk to these VIPs. Maharashtra chief minister Devendra   had a narrow escape on Thursday when the chopper carrying him crash-landed at  .

 On January 26 this year,   chief minister Vijay Rupani and Governor O P Kohli were luckier still when the helicopter carrying them failed to take off from  . Rupani and Kohli were returning to the state capital after Republic Day celebrations. They had to travel to   by road.
 
 After the Anand incident, Rupani had to use private helicopters for a month as the state chopper was being repaired.
 
 Officials say the Gujarat government helicopter is 10 years old (it was bought in 2007) while the fixed-wing plane, bought in 1999, is 18 years old.
 
 The state government spends around Rs 3 crore a year on maintenance of the helicopter and the plane. They are still risky to fly, say civil aviation department officials. This maintenance cost figure does not include the cost of hiring replacement private helicopters and planes.
 
 Officials believe that poor maintenance may be the reason for the crash-landing of the chopper carrying Fadnavis.
 
 “We are ignoring other possible reasons such as weather conditions and high temperature, restricted helipad area and hindrance, and unprepared landing and flying ground,” a senior official said on the condition of anonymity.
 
 He further said newer technology has reduced the risk involved in using helicopters. “But Gujarat government has a single-engine chopper. Hence the risk is greater,’’ the official said. Sources said the Gujarat government had decided to expedite the purchase of a new helicopter but it has to take a policy decision in the matter. “Only one bidder, Airbus, has submitted a proposal as another key manufacturer, Agusta, has been blacklisted. The state government has allocated Rs25 crore as primary fund but a new helicopter is likely to cost around Rs70-100 crore,” a source said.
 
 Further, the helicopter that the Gujarat government has does not meet the new specifications of the central government, the source said. The state government had invited bids twice for a new plane but did not buy one. “A new aeroplane may cost between Rs 150 crore and Rs 190 crore. Buying one could attract political criticism in this election year,” an official said.
 
 Captain Ajay Chauhan, director, civil aviation, said that the Gujarat government helicopter had failed to take off in Anand because of a snag which was repaired in a few days.
 
 “We conduct regular scheduled maintenance of the helicopter and the plane according to the guidelines laid down by the DGCA. We advise the government on all possible risk factors,’’ Chauhan said.
 
