BHOPAL: In a brazen display of muscle power, timber mafia allegedly took hostage a forest ranger and two forest guards in Damoh district on Thursday night. The three forest department employees were released when a tractor loaded with logs felled in a reserved forest area was freed forcibly by a group of 100 armed people.

 More than 24 hours after the incident, the police have not registered an FIR because of usual slugfest over police jurisdiction.
 
 Explaining the incident, sub-divisional officer (forest)   told TOI, “There were six of us on the spot in a radius of 500 metres. When we confiscated the tractor loaded with logs, more than 100 armed men mobbed us. They must have been hiding in bushes and keeping a watch on us.” 
 
 “Sensing the danger, I ran for my life for almost a km. I somehow managed to sms my superiors and narrated them the incident,” Singh said. Of six forest department personnel on duty, deputy ranger CN Choubey and two forest guards Prabhat Pateria and   were taken hostage as they were near tractor trolley, he said.
 
 In the high-voltage drama lasting 3 hours, the mob did not allow trio to move from the spot. They were released when the tractor was taken away forcibly and reached its destination, he said.
 
 The SDO said he and his teammates were sitting at   police station till 10.30 pm, but the case was not registered.
 
 Damoh police said there was a dispute over jurisdiction of two districts-whether the incident took place in Jabalpur or Damoh.
 
 The SDO forest said: “Jabalpur is 1 km away from the place where the incident took place on Thursday.”
 
 SP Damoh district Tilak Singh said, “The forest department was not able to explain the location where the incident took place and names of the people involved in it. “I have sent my officers to the spot again to find out facts.”
 
 It is not an isolated case when the forest mafia manhandled the forest department employees. In fact, there has been a rise in number of cases of assault on forest department officials since 2014 by sand and forest mafia across the state.
 
