KOLHAPUR: The state government’s decision to cut the compensation grants for abolishing local body tax ( ) has forced the civic body to explore new taxes to address the civic concerns. 

 The   authorities are sure about the timely and adequate grants from the state government as the LBT has been completely abolished and Goods and   (GST) comes into effect from July 1. Experts have suggested imposition of Congestion Tax as an option to generate revenue for the ailing   (KMC). In January this year, the state had slashed its compensation by Rs 1 crore to Rs 7 crore.
 
 Burhan Naikawadi, secretary of  , said, “The KMC had drafted the proposal to impose parking premium on the commercial establishments. However, the proposal never came up for discussion. The Congestion Tax will help the KMC manage the city’s traffic concern. The parking premium or the Congestion Tax will not just add money to KMC’s coffers, but will also deter the commuters using private vehicles and ensure use of public transport at large.”
 
 Even though the proposal was never discussed, the parking premium would be imposed for 100sqmt carpet area and will cost Rs 10,000 per year for a four wheeler and Rs 5,000 per year for a two wheeler. 
 
 The parking premium was proposed to address illegal parking outside the commercial establishments such as theatres, malls, hotels and marriage halls. The central government had asked the cities selected for smart city project to address the traffic problems and one of the ways to solve it is through Congestion Tax. Other civic bodies from the state such as Pune and Mumbai are also considering imposition of Congestion Tax. 
 
 Abhijeet Chaudhary, municipal commissioner, said, “We hope that the grants will continue in some way or the other after LBT will be subsumed under GST. We are planning to find new ways of taxes. In case of Congestion Tax, the revenue collected needs to be spent on the traffic concerns and should not be looked as a source of income to the civic body. We will study the cases wherein the tax has been implemented.”
 
 After LBT for annual transaction below Rs 50 crore by traders was abolished, property tax was the main source of revenue. Recently, the KMC had announced discounts in several categories of property. 
 
 
