AGRA: Students of   in the city will no longer have to sit on the ground inside their classrooms to learn their lessons. Proper sitting arrangements, such as tables and chairs, would be made for them in the new academic session. According to an   official, they have received a government order directing them to send estimates of their requirements for such furniture as per the enrolment in each school so that adequate funds could be allotted for the same.
 
  An official at the basic shiksha adhikari office,  , said, “We have been asked to prepare the estimates in this regard. It will be prepared soon and will be submitted to senior officials concerned.” A proposal is being prepared, mentioning the how many schools need furniture in Agra region, and according to the proposal, funds for the furniture will be released, Srivastav added.
  
  "We will prepare a list of schools that do not have furniture for students to sit and study and then submit it to the BSA office in two-three days,” Srivastav added.
  
  According to official sources, the estimated budget for each set of furniture (bench and table) is Rs 2,280 for class I and II, and Rs 3,035 for class III to V. It is Rs 3,630 for class VI to VIII.
  
  Rajeev Verma, a teacher, said, "Heads of schools have been asked to provide details of requirements for furniture according to the strength of students so that pupils can get to sit and study properly in schools, according to the directions of the high court."
  
  It is a common sight to see children in state-run primary schools sitting on tattered carpets laid out on uneven floors, bending over twice as much to read and write. Basic facilities, including furniture, drinking water and toilets, are missing in most of the schools in the state. "The state government has facilities to provide mid-day meals, uniforms and books to kids, but sadly there is no provision for furniture. In such a scenario, where we get a limited budget, there is little we can do at our end. Eventually, children will have to sit on daris (mat) to study in schools," said a teacher.
  
  The Allahabad high court in November last year questioned the Uttar Pradesh authorities on the lack of furniture for schoolchildren. The court's observation came after a   (PIL) filed by a man, identified as Krishna Murari Tripathi, alleging that children were forced to sit on the floor, irrespective of whatever season it was, due to lack of proper desks and chairs. School authorities blame the lack of funds from the state government for the sorry state of affairs.
