NEW DELHI: Two men, acquitted of terror charges 11 years after being framed by  , want departmental action against the officers who framed them. One of them, Irshad Ali, has approached the   seeking directions to the police to conduct a departmental inquiry under direct supervision of the police commissioner.

 Justice A K Pathak on Monday issued a notice to the police seeking an explanation why there should be no action against the officers for “falsely implicating” the duo who worked as informers. Irshad, along with another person, was slapped with “very serious charges of waging war against the state”, stated the petition filed by advocate Sufiyan Siddiqui. After the matter reached the high court, CBI was asked to probe and it sought action against the erring police officials for fabricating evidence to implicate the petitioner, it added.
 
 The plea informed the high court that despite CBI filing a closure report against the accused, the trial court went ahead with the prosecution but found them to be innocent in December after examining all evidence. “It is now incumbent upon the respondent to fix the accountability of the erring police officials involved in the present FIR by conducting a departmental inquiry followed by departmental action, as may be appropriate against the erring police officials in compliance with the Supreme Court’ directions,” the plea added.
 
 According to the FIR, the police apprehended Ali and Qamar from the Mukarba Chowk bus stand in northwest Delhi on February 9, 2006. It was alleged that both were members of the banned outfit Al-Badr and were carrying arms and ammunition, including pistols, live cartridges and detonators. An FIR was registered under Sections 121 (waging war against Government of India) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC, as well as under the Explosive Substance Act and the Arms Act.
 
 The accused, however, approached the high court and sought a CBI inquiry alleging that both were illegally picked up by   in December 2005 and they were actually informers of Intelligence Bureau and the Special Cell, said advocate Siddiqui. The high court asked CBI to probe the matter and the agency filed the closure report.
 
