RANCHI: The   venue – Khelgaon – has transformed from a sports complex into a site, where the government hopes the fate of the state will be transformed for good. Top bureaucrats and policemen are camping at the site - holding meetings, inspecting all arrangements, decorations and making last-minute changes. Amidst all the bustle, there is a huge workforce that has been toiling hard and silently to make Momentum Jharkhand a dream come true. 

 They are the unsung warriors of the mega investors' summit that is scheduled to take place on February 16 and 17. Burning the night oil and working till wee hours every day these workers from various parts of the country have transformed the sprawling Khelgaon campus into a mega event venue. 
 
 Right from the flying elephant mascot, Make in India lion to transforming the Hariwansh Tana Bhaghat Indoor Stadium, Hotwar, into a venue fit for the inaugural ceremony, setting up numerous air-conditioned make-shift seminar halls, these men are the silent workers. “More than 300 workers and supervisors have been deployed to give the right look and shape to the swanky venue,” said one of the organizers at the venue.
 
 For   from Munger in Bihar it has been a rather long, back-breaking stint at Khelgaon, toiling with the wood work needed for building the numerous large seminar halls that have cropped up on the sprawling campus of the sports complex. “Work begins at 8 am and sometimes continues till 4 am, We have been provided sleeping quarters within the complex. It has been a marathon operation for us. I have been working at the venue since February 14,” he said as he put finishing touches to a large wooden frame. Fahim, who works for a Delhi-based private company, has travelled across the country and building the dreams of political bosses in many investors’ summits. 
 
 Inside the huge, makeshift seminar halls that have been erected with help of people like Fahim, it is surprisingly cool - the air-conditioner men are at work.   with his colleague   have set up more than five air-conditioner plants and over 100 air-conditioner units. “Since January 28 we began working at the venue daily from 7 am to late into the night. Now, though our installation work is almost complete we are going to remain at the venue till completion of the summit for repair and maintenance,” said Kishan.
 
 Filling vibrant colours to set the right mood for Momentum Jharkhand are a team of 40 painters from Delhi. They have working at the venue, lending a colourful touch to all the makeshift installations – woodwork and ceiling - at Khelgaon since January 24. Providing finishing touches to the logo and a large cutout of Momentum Jharkhand’s mascot Rihan Khan said: “Work has been rewarding financially and we are adding finishing touches now.”
 
 
