JAIPUR: Monsoon attracts people towards nurseries to buy plants. The nurseries are expecting good business. The monsoon may have arrived but the city has not seen rains in the past one week have left most of nurseries waiting for customers. Also, the customers are waiting for rains before they went for purchase.

 “We buy different varieties of plants during this season. We have Aloe Vera plants which are famous for its medicinal qualities and we use it as a vegetable too and planning to buy other plants. Greenery everyday around brings this positive vibes in thoughts which everyone should try by planting near localities,” said  , resident of Mansarovar,
 
 The scope of nurseries are not restricted to selling saplings but they also provide services like farm development, gardening, landscaping, farming, annual maintenance, vertical gardens, terrace gardening, lawn development and also provide online services for knowledge, delivery and maintenance of plants and saplings. But very rare offers delivery services online actually.
 
 The Tulsi, Aloevera, Ashoka, Giloy etc sells like a hot cake, says  , owner of Nursery, who adds that other than family the corporates buys in bulk for planting saplings under their corporate social responsibility plans. “There are these big contracts from hotels and resorts for the landscaping and gardens from which our business is getting higher. We organise several workshops and exhibition too so that people can get to know about different varieties and its uses.” added Saini.
 
 When everything is online, the nurseries are not remaining untouched. Some of them have done it. “We have online system but the response is very poor. Very rarely customers go for online shopping of plants, ” Ramchandra saini, Neel kamal Nursery. While handing over the plant to any of the customers these sellers brief everything about plants proper growth and maintenance. And they provide all the things which will be needed for its growth.
 
 Even the government is doing its part to increase greenery by distributing plants to residents on subsided rates this reason. The civic body will start the distribution work from July 15 and these plants will be available in JDA's five nurseries.
 
 There is this growing trend of lavishing gardens and plantation in small to big hotels. Decorating hotel surroundings with natural greenery is what hoteliers are doing to attract customers. And indeed everyone gets attracted with the natural beauty around themselves.
 
 Even schools and colleges are promoting this habit of plantation by motivating students for planting trees around their localities. Some schools in Jaipur done compulsory for students to plant a tree on their birthdays and should take care of it themselves.
 
 
