AHMEDABAD: The mortal remains of   33, who was killed on Sunday morning in a fierce gun-battle with militants at Kulgam in South Kashmir, were brought to the city on Monday afternoon by an IAF plane. He was cremated at Lilanagar crematorium in Nikol with a guard of honour by the  .

 Thousands flocked to catch a last glimpse of Gujarat’s hero, even as slogans of ‘Bharat Mata ki jai’, ‘Vande mataram’ and patriotic songs rent the air. Shops in the Bapunagar area of the city, where Bhadoria’s family live, observed a voluntary bandh as a mark of respect for the fallen hero. People spilled out of their homes on the roads with the tricolour in their hands.
 
 Bhadoria, of 1-RR of the Indian Army and his colleagues had slain four Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists before he and Sepoy Raghubeersingh of Uttarakhand laid down their lives for the country.
 
  Before Bhadoria’s body was taken to his house in MahaShakti Society in Bapunagar, a solemn military ceremony was held at the airport by the Indian Army, to receive the brave son of the soil. Wreaths were laid by Gujarat MoS (Home)   along with Army, Air Force and Navy officials. 
 
  A team of city police was also at the airport to pay their last respects to the fallen hero. 
 
 Bhadoria’s remains were brought to his house at about 5pm. A massive funeral procession took his body to Lilanagar Crematorium, where a guard of honour was given by the Army, firing shots into the air.
 
 Bhadoria is survived by his father Munimsingh, mother   and two younger brothers Sanjay and Vikramsingh. Bhadoria separated from his wife Hemlata Devi about seven years ago.
 
 ‘Your son has laid down his life for the country’
 
 Gopalsingh’s father got a call at about 2pm on Sunday that his son had suffered injuries during an anti-terror operation. “At four, an army official again called me and said Gopalsingh is critical and is being rushed to the ICU. In 15 minutes another call said: “Your son has laid down his life for the country,” said Gopalsingh’s father, Munimsingh.
 
 ‘Ask Modi to do another surgical strike’ 
 
 The uncle of Lance Naik Gopalsingh Bhadoria, Ghanshyamsingh Bhadoria, who was at the airport with his young nephew and Gopalsingh’s brother Sanjay to receive his mortal remains, said: “Modi ko bolo ek aur surgical strike kare (Ask Modi to do one more surgical strike)”. Ghanshyamsingh, who lives in Meghaninagar was visible distraught on seeing his nephew’s body.
 
 
