JAIPUR: Sawai Man Singh Medical College’s resident doctors went on indefinite strike on Friday evening in support of protesting resident doctors of Jodhpur’s government medical college who are already on strike for the past three days.

 Besides, resident doctors in Jaipur, the resident doctors of government medical colleges in Udaipur and Kota have also joined the strike on Friday.
 
 The agitating doctors have been demanding action against accused attendants who thrashed three resident doctors on January 20. 
 
 Jaipur Association of Resident Doctors (JARD) held a meeting on Friday. After the meeting, they went on strike at 6 pm. More than 900 resident doctors posted at SMS Hospital, Zanana Hospital, Gangauri Hospital and other hospitals attached to SMS Medical College went on strike after the decision was taken.
 
 “We have gone on strike in support of agitating resident doctors in Jodhpur. They were attacked by four attendants of a 77-year-old woman undergoing treatment at critical care unit. Among the four accused attendants who attacked the resident doctors is a deputy superintendent of police and a government doctor. We want that the police register case against them under Rajasthan Medical Protection Act 2008,” JARD general secretary Dr Manish Loyal said.
 
 He said that they had given 72-hour time before going on strike to act on the demand. But no action was taken till Friday evening.
 
 The JARD office bearers claimed that one of the resident doctors who were attached on January 20 suffered fracture in his backbone and one another suffered injury near eye.
 
 Now, Rajasthan   also extended support of striking resident doctors. “The act of violence against resident doctors in Jodhopur is inhuman. Medical teachers association condemn such act. We demand from the government to legal take action against the accused. Moreover, strict disciplinary action should be taken against the government officials involved in the act. If action is not taken, the medical teachers association will also join the protest,” RMCTA office-bearers claimed.
 
  (Rajasthan unit) condemned assault on resident doctors. “the administration should ensure that all the accused should be immediately arrested as per law and proper protection should be provided to resident doctors as they are working about 12 hours to 18 hours per day and are backbone of hospital,” Dr Sarvesh Joshi, secretary IMA, Rajasthan said. 
 
