CHENNAI: As doctors continued their protest against the changes being made in postgraduate medical admissions, the state government said it would take disciplinary action against those who don't report for work on Monday. 

 On Saturday, 1,780 doctors, posted in primary health centers across the state, applied for casual leave. On Sunday, 388 doctors stayed away from work. "In keeping with the high court's order, we will initiate disciplinary action against all those who don't show up for work on Monday," said Director of Public Health, K Kolandaswamy. 
 
 The white-coats have been agitating for the last two weeks since the Madurai bench of the Madras high court overruled the method followed by Tamil Nadu in calculating incentive marks for the in-service doctors working in remote or hilly areas during PG admissions, and asked the state to follow the one prescribed by the  .
 
 Last week, the Madras high court reached a split verdict on the case and placed it before a single judge. On Saturday, the court ruled that the state should follow MCI regulations, and did away with the three-decade-old practice of reserving 50% PG seats for in-service candidates.
 
 Government doctors' associations said they would continue their protest without services being affected. "We have instructed doctors to join the dharna after their duty hours," said Dr Kathirvel, secretary of Tamil Nadu Medical Officers Association. Around 15,000 government doctors had either participated in or supported the agitation, of which close to 8,000 are PG aspirants.
 
 The court's order has also resulted in a windfall for doctors in government service vying for the 3,000 PG seats, as 80% would go to in-service candidates who are eligible to claim the incentive mark, as stipulated in the regulations. 
 
 However, most agitating doctors TOI spoke to on Sunday, seemed to be in the dark about this unintended gain. 
 
  Meanwhile, the government is planning to move the   to give Tamil Nadu the power to retain the earlier method they followed in awarding incentives for government doctors. 
 
 Senior health officials say the governments of Rajasthan and Punjab have in principle agreed to file a joint petition with the state.
 
 
