JAIPUR: The   (JDA) has sought suggestions from its legal cell to cancel the allotment of   (RCA) land in Chop village on the  .

 After issuing the final notice to RCA in November, legal opinion has been sought for cancellation of land. “The zone office has forwarded the matter to seek legal opinion following the directions of Jaipur development commissioner (JDC). Action will be taken after receiving the report,” said a JDA official.
 
 The civic body had allotted nearly 18.16 hectares of land to RCA in Chop village in 2012 to develop a stadium. As per the agreement, the land was given to RCA on the condition that the academy would hand over the club house, situated in  , to JDA.
 
 However, RCA refused to honour the agreement. According to a JDA official, RCA refused to give up the club house claiming that it had signed a memorandum of understating (MoU) with the   (SCR) to hand over the land to them.
 
 “Earlier , the authority had sought a reply in 15 days from RCA before it decides on an independent course of action. After RCA failed to provide a satisfactory reply, JDA is now gearing up to cancel the allotment,” added the official.
 
 As per another agreement with JDA, the RCA had to also organize an international match within five years of constructing the stadium.
 
 “In 2014, the JDA issued the first notice to RCA on the project. A reminder was sent after a year in 2015. However, a clear reply was not given by RCA even then,” the official told TOI.
 
 “In May 2016, the RCA requested an additional 40 hectares. However, this was not considered by the state government and a meeting was organised in August 2016 to take a decision on cancelling the allotment,” he said.
 
 Though they have proposed to cancel the allotment, the JDA official claimed that the concept plan submitted by RCA was impressive. The proposal was to construct the stadium like a stepwell, 25 metres below the surface. The RCA had also planned a capacity to seat 30,000 people for an approximate budget of Rs 500 crore in the first phase.
 
 “The total estimated cost of the project was Rs 2,000 crore. The stadium was to also have a multi-cuisine food court and a sports medical university. The RCA had submitted an undertaking to complete the work by 2018,” he said.
 
