MUMBAI: The Congress-NCP combine on Thursday asked chief minister Devendra Fadanvis to sack medical education and water resources minister   for attending the marriage of international terrorist Dawood Ibrahim’s niece in Nashik on May 19.

 Former deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said if Mahajan does not resign, then Fadnavis must sack him. 
 
 “Some years ago, the BJP had launched a vilification campaign against Sharad Pawar, though he was not even remotely linked to a gangster. It is now clearly established that Mahajan attended the marriage of a close relative of Dawood,” Ajit Pawar said in Pune.
 
 Endorsing Ajit Pawar’s demand, Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant also demanded immediate dismissal of Mahajan. “The CM must order a high-level probe against Mahajan and BJP legislators who attended the wedding,” Sawant said.
 
 BJP legislators Devyani Farande, Balasaheb Sanap and Seema Hiray, Nashik mayor Ranjana Bhanasi and deputy mayor Prathamesh Gite (both of the BJP) and some municipal councillors went along with Mahajan to the function. Ten cops, including an assistant commissioner, also attended the nuptials. “When there were reports that senior BJP leader and then revenue minister Eknath Khadse had received a call from Dawood’s residence, he was sacked from the cabinet. Fadnavis must treat both Khadse and Mahajan on a par and he must be sacked till the inquiry is over,” Sawant said.
 
 Sawant said there are no takers for Mahajan’s argument that he was unaware that the bride background. “Most of the people, who attended the marriage, were aware of the presence of doubtful people in the marriage. Many bookies too attended the marriage. Under such circumstances, it is difficult to believe Mahajan’s explanation,’’ Sawant said.
 
  After the video of the marriage went viral, Nashik police chief Ravindra Singhal had ordered an inquiry into the presence of senior officials at the function. The probe was entrusted to deputy police commissioner Laxmikant Patil. The police officials concerned were asked to explain why they attended the function and whether or not they were aware of the bride’s antecedents.
 
 Mahajan has said that he attended the marriage on the invitation of a prominent Muslim religious leader Shahar A Khateeb. Fadnavis said he had sought a report from the Nashik police chief.
 
 
