GREATER NOIDA: Two persons were killed and three others were critically injured when a speeding Maruti Swift Dzire rammed into a truck on Yamuna expressway on Friday morning.

 The deceased included a government school teacher and the car driver. Three other persons were admitted to Kailash Hospital in Jewar with critical head injuries and multiple fractures.
 
 The accident happened near Jewar toll plaza around 9.30am. Four government school teachers — Girija Prasad (53), Pati Rampal (55),   (59) and Rajiv Sharma (52), all residents of Etawah — left their homes with a local driver, Dhruv (24), at the wheel to take part in a ‘Teachers’ Meet’ in Meerut.
 
 Girija Prasad was in the passenger seat. The three other teachers were sitting on the back seats. The police said that when they reached near Jewar toll plaza, a truck that was moving ahead the car suddenly applied the brakes to take a left turn. The car driver ended up ramming into the vehicle.
 
 The collision was so severe that the car was crushed and victims were trapped inside. Dhruv fell on the steering and suffered critical injuries to his abdomen and head. The smashed windshield glass shards caused severe injuries to his head. Girija Prasad also suffered critical head injuries and died on the spot.
 
 Some passersby stopped there when they noticed the accident. They informed the police, who reached the spot and took the victims to hospital. The accident also created a traffic jam at the spot. The police later removed both the vehicles and cleared the road.Ajay Kumar Sharma, SHO, Jewar police station, said the truck driver and helper fled the spot after the accident. “We have registered a case against the accused and seized the truck. We are also trying to trace the truck owner,” he said. 
 
 Following the accident, DM B N Singh held a meeting with officials of the traffic and transport departments and directed them to conduct an enforcement drive against speeding. The DM also asked them to conduct awareness programmes.
 
 
