NEW DELHI: A more “interactive” police, modernisation and fighting street and cyber crimes are on the agenda of the new Delhi police chief,  , who took charge at 5pm on Tuesday.

 Interacting with reporters, the police chief said that priority would be to address public grievances and improve public perception of the force. The top cop also pegged the safety of women, children and the elderly at public places as a top priority.
 
 Patnaik, who could be one of the longest serving police chiefs of the city, also emphasised on turning the force into a tech-savvy unit. He has initiated actions to revive the old mobile applications launched to assist police and public. 
 
 “Cyber security is also a major area of concern for all of us due to digitisation of money transfer and we would ensure that offences related to this are tackled appropriately. We would strengthen the district cyber security cells. I have instructed my officers to work on this as well,” he said.
 
 Programmes like self-defence classes for children and engaging school drop-outs to prevent youngsters from plunging into crime would be encouraged by the new police commissioner. Patnaik said he was accessible to one and all and that anyone in need of assistance should not think twice before coming to his office.
 
 “I have instructed my colleagues to ensure that street and cyber crimes are handled on priority. Our aim is to reduce such crimes as far as possible. We would also come up with new strategies to tackle offences of this nature,” said Patnaik.
 
 The new police commissioner is learnt to have issued orders to chalk out plans to improve day-to-day functioning of the force. The top brass was asked to monitor functions like managing traffic and protests, to minimise hassles for the public. 
 
 Patnaik would also continue with the new promotion policy that was introduced during the previous commissioner’s regime. Senior officers said that lieutenant governor   on Tuesday had cleared the proposal for at least three promotions for personnel who join the force in the ranks of constables and head constables, and at least two promotions for those joining as sub-inspectors.
 
 In the coming days, reshuffle in the ranks of joint commissioners and special commissioner is expected. The city may get new traffic and terror chiefs. The current terror chief is senior to Patnaik and a special commissioner has been given additional charge of the anti-terror unit. Special CP Kishan Kumar retired on Tuesday and Sundari Nanda has gone on central deputation leaving two posts vacant.
 
 On Tuesday, former police chief Alok Verma was given a ceremonial farewell by officers, after which Patnaik took charge and a guard of honour was conducted at the Delhi Police headquarters.
 
 
