BENGALURU: After a start-stop affair so far in her rookie season on the  , Indian golfer  , who jumped nearly 20 spots on the priority list in the reshuffle done at the start of the month, is likely to get entry into more events leading up to the second Major next month end.

 Because of her conditional status, the 19-year-old Bengalurean's entry into tournaments would often be shrouded in doubt till the last minute. More often than not,   would fly halfway across the world to play in events, with very little practice.
 
 However, after two reasonably successful outings in April ­ tied 42nd at the ANA Inspiration, the first Major of the season, and tied 47th at the   in Hawaii the following week ­ Aditi can now plan her schedule to her liking before the final reshuffle next month.
 
 The Indian ace, winner of two titles on the Ladies   last year, will look to make it count when she begins a three-week swing at the   in Virginia this week.
 
 "I have been working on a lot of different aspects this year and my game feels good," Aditi told TOI on the eve of the $1.3m event. "This week I need to work on creating enough birdie chances by hitting a lot of greens and the key would be to hit good approaches."
 
 Aditi did prove to the world that she belongs in the big league with a creditable show since the Rio Olympics. The youngster, however, admitted that she could have done better. "I didn't have four consistently good rounds and could have saved a few shots and finished higher up at both ANA and Lotte," she said.
 
 Lack of tournament play could also have been a factor. "I didn't play that many events in the beginning of the year, I just played three in Australia and two after that. I feel the more I play the better I get in terms of not just my game but in terms of my thinking. And the more I get into tournament mode, I feel that will help me get back into a good rhythm," Aditi said.
 
 The re-rank will certainly help Aditi get into some sort of rhythm ahead of the bigger events. "Earlier, I was 5th or the 6th person on the reserve list. I was either just making it to the field or not making it. Now I know which events I am going to play and mostly I will be in the field more than out of the field," she said.
 
 Ranked fourth in the putting averages on the Tour, Aditi will rely on her short-game to make it count. "I have always been a very good putter and it helps a lot on the LPGA because there are a lot of players who are almost doing the same thing, hitting fairways and hitting greens so sometimes I feel like the only way to make the difference is if you putt well," she said.
 
