The Indian Medical Association (IMA) appears to have diluted the 'advisory' to its state and local branches to avoid taking sponsorship from the pharma industry to organise continuing medical education ( ) meetings.   headquarters has now issued a clarification in the   group saying it had only said that "as far as possible" CMEs should be contributory but had not talked about banning sponsorship.

 In the clarification, IMA talks about the relationship between itself and the pharma industry being "sacred and transparent". In the earlier 'circular' from IMA president   and secretary general Dr  , they had urged all state and local branches to organise contributory academic/educational CMEs and other functions. "Even social functions should be contributory," the circular had stated. It added that "this concept will help IMA focus on academic contents and not fund raising and will also remove the myth that CMEs are dependent on pharma or industry support."
 
 Speaking to TOI after issuing the circular,   had said they were recommending that doctors attending a CME pay for their own meals as meals in five star hotels were expensive, working out to as much as Rs 1,200- 1,500 per plate pushing up the cost of such meetings. The circular talked about holding CMEs over "contributory" lunch, dinner or over just "a cup of tea or coffee". It said this was like people going to a movie not being served meals, but buying snacks during the interval.
 
 The IMA is learnt to have received mails from members protesting against the circular. However, Aggarwal told TOI that the clarification was only to explain that IMA had not talked of "banning" sponsorship. The clarification stated that there was no bar on associations taking sponsorship from pharma companies or taking grants to run educational courses "as long as the working is transparent and there is no pushing of a product".
 
 "We were only talking about IMA-organised CMEs. Other associations are free to do what they want. We were merely saying that if it is contributory, then the organisers can concentrate on the academic content rather than worry about fund raising," explained Dr Aggarwal.
 
 The clarification went on to point out that even the Medical Council of India allowed doctors to affiliate with pharma companies as consultants or researchers and associations were anyway not governed by the code. 
 
