NEW DELHI: In a bid to improve connectivity between east and  , the Public Works Department is reworking the plan of its ambitious east-west corridor project, which was conceived in 2007. The proposed alignment of the corridor was presented before lieutenant governor   along with the north-south corridor project on Tuesday. 

 Officials from the   department said they would show the reworked plan to LG by the end of the month.
 
 While Baijal asked authorities to approve the north-south Corridor at the earliest, he suggested some changes to the east-west project. 
 
 “We will rework the proposal and present it before LG in 15 days,” PWD minister Satyendar Jain had said, while announcing the North-South elevated corridor project on Tuesday.
 
 PWD officials said a tunnel between the New Delhi Railway Station and New Rohtak Road was suggested at the meeting held at the LG office, as the area was extremely congested. “We will ask the consultant to explore all options and rework the plan,” said a senior PWD official.
  
  
 Unlike the north-south corridor, the east-west project has major issues related to alignment. In the former, the elevated corridor will be constructed largely on and along the Najafgarh drain. But the east-west corridor, which is also 39km-long, will be constructed largely along railway tracks, and pass through densely populated areas. 
 
 The alignment has been the biggest concern due to which the project has been on hold for nearly a decade.
 
 As per the proposal presented before LG, the elevated corridor will start from ISBT Anand Vihar, pass through ITO and New Delhi Railway Station and touch down at Dr Sahib Singh Verma Marg near Tigri Border. The corridor will incorporate the DDA Transit Oriented Development project at Karkardooma. “A large part of the corridor will be constructed along railway tracks in east and west  , as there is no possibility of an alternate route. Permission from the railways is crucial for this project. We are in touch with the railways regarding the project,” said a PWD official.
 
 PWD will explore the possibility of a tunnel from New Delhi Railway Station to New Rohtak Road, as the area in between is extremely congested. 
 
 “During its course, the corridor would pass along existing roads through the central area (nearly 14km) of the city, which are extremely congested. A tunnel option is possible,” said a PWD official.
 
 In west Delhi, PWD officials said, close to 15km of the elevated corridor would be constructed along the railway tracks as there was no possibility of constructing it on the arterial road. 
 
 “On New Rohtak Road between Zakhira and Dr Sahib Singh Marg, there is little possibility of constructing the elevated corridor on or along the road because of existing Metro tracks and flyovers,” said a PWD official.
 
