Having collaborated on numerous occasions, filmmaker   and director David Dhawan’s friendship has stood the test of time. The hit jodi, who made the 1997 blockbuster 'Judwaa', has joined hands once again to give us a reboot of the film, which will see   reprising the double role that   had essayed in the original. In a candid, fun-filled chat with BT, the duo talks about the future of commercial potboilers, thoughts on ‘industry kids’ having it easy, Varun being compared to Salman and why there won’t be a ‘butt-slapping scene’ in 'Judwaa 2', unlike the original. Excerpts…

 
 
 They are very different actors, Salman is something else. Initially, I thought that he was lazy, but he takes time to settle down and once he does, he knows exactly what needs to be done. He can hold the audience’s attention. Also, there’s something very endearing about him; his niceness is believable and genuine. He is the most charming actor we have. I always tell Varun that he should be as endearing as Salman.
 Sajid: While shooting for 'Judwaa', Salman said, ‘Main Hum Aapke Hain Koun ka hero hoon, I can’t do pelvic thrusts.’ I was worried that David would hear that and say, ‘pack up’ (laughs).
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  It is easier for an industry boy to get opportunities, but in the end, you need talent to survive. Also, all of us are outsiders. I struggled for 10 years before my films started making money. Sajid, too, has seen bad times till 'Jeet' and 'Judwaa' happened. Let me tell you, I haven’t helped my sons Rohit or Varun professionally. I got to know from a third person that Rohit is making a film. Same with Varun — he doesn’t want to take my help. Karan came to my house to inform me that Varun will be launched in his film. Rohit and I were surprised that he was going to be a hero. Varun didn’t have to go through the kind of struggles that I did because yeh uska muqaddar hai. I had a poor father, but Varun has a rich father (laughs). Of course, Karan ki film ho gayi isliye, varna mujhe usse launch karna hi padta. I am his father, after all. But he was destined to make it on his own.
 
 
  What do I do if my son wants to be an actor? Should I tell him that he is not supposed to be one because of nepotism? This word has cropped up recently. You have girls like   and   who are not from here; Akshay Kumar is also an outsider. Also, every industry kid has a father who has struggled. Look at Davidji, I still remember he had a scooter for the longest time jo kabhi chalu hi nahi hoti thi. 
 
  
  
 
 
 David: I don’t question him about rumours of his affairs and link-ups. At times, my wife prompts me to ask him about it, but I don’t. That’s his life; I am not bothered by all that.
 
 
 
 
 : Back in those days, I remember the biggest black ticketer at Gaiety, Galaxy telling me that he had bought a house by selling black tickets for my movies. I miss that time. Also, earlier, the industry was like a family. We would say, ‘Chal yaar, picture banate hain’. Now, everything is very professional. Even my son (Varun) was professional with me during the shoot of the film (laughs). So, whenever I had a problem with Varun or anyone else, I would ask Sajid to handle them. I have known Sajid for over 20 years, and we are on a similar wavelength. 
 
 
 : I only work with those I get along with. It doesn’t matter how successful or unsuccessful they are. David and I are friends, but he is way too senior. So, be it any decision, I often convey it to him through his sons. I even discussed the casting of 'Judwaa 2' with Rohit first.
 
 
 
 
  I have made a few alterations, but I didn’t tamper the original. We deleted that scene after Varun censured it. I guess that’s why it helps to work with the younger generation; they give you a newer perspective. Also, if you feel the need to change a film completely, that means you are not confident about it at all. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 : I never thought about it as a comparison because we are very close to Salman. That relationship is something else. 
 
 Every actor has his own space. Be it   or  , as was proved in the Don remake. There cannot be any comparison as they are two different personalities. Varun must have been nine years old when 'Judwaa' released. 
 
 
 
 Work is priority for me. I might like you, but work comes first. If you are not good (professionally), no matter how much I like you as a person, I will throw you out of my film. I have done it before. The day I get to know that an actor is spoiling my film, I will throw him out. 
 
 
 
 
 It was the reverse. I probably treated him worse than the others, I was tougher on him. So much so, he even complained to his mother! But eventually, he came around and told me that what I did was right. 
 Sajid: At times, I would have to convince David to let Varun do a retake if he wanted to. Once I even told his brother (Rohit) that Varun is a star, so you all should treat him a bit nicely (laughs). 
 
  
  
 
