Bhopal: Tension is mounting among employees of   Workers Association over undertaking issued by Ziqitza stating terms and conditions for them. Though the strike ended on May 6, ambulances belonging to the company, Ziqitza, stayed off roads on Wednesday, the fourth day after the end of the strike. 

 The 3,000 drivers of the 108 association, who went on strike on April 26 ended their strike on May 6 after the employer, Ziqitza company, consented to their demand to reduce working hours from 12 hours to 8 hours per day. Health minister Rustam Singh is learned to have asked Ziqitza to allow drivers to join duty in 24 hours, or else their tender would be cancelled and given to another company. Aslam Khan, spokesperson of 108, said, “Rustam Singh asked the company to hand over ambulance keys to drivers and warned to cancel the tender. We keep on waiting on JP hospital premises from early hours to get keys so that we can join duty.” Ziqitza Healthcare Ltd (ZHL) CFO Manish Sancheti said, “ZHL is in compliance with the Motor Transport Workers Act and has never demanded more than eight hours of duty as defined by the Act per day. The letter from the ALC clearly states employees should work up to eight hours, and ‘work’ as defined under the Motor Transport Workers Act. The company will continue with its current shift practice, where no ambulance crew is required to work for more than 5 hours continuously within the shift for a day and shall be given sufficient spread-over time, not exceeding 4 hours, when they shall remain on call and no ambulance crew shall be on call for more than 12 hours in a day and 48 hours of ‘work’ per week, which averages to 8 working hours per day.”
 
 As regards re-joining and recruitment of new drivers, Sancheti said, “The company is appointing all workers, who are willing to join on ‘first come, first preference’ basis provided they adhere to all protocols. The workers, who are joining back immediately, are being offered benefits. Those who did not join the strike are also given benefits as a gesture of appreciation.” Spokesperson of 108 ambulance Khan alleged that the employer is not handing over keys to the vehicle. “We called off the strike and would wish to resume services, but the company management was not handing us keys to ambulances,” he said.
 
 
