BHUBANESWAR:   MP  , in custody here for his alleged role in the Rose Valley chit fund scam, had apparently played a part in duping unsuspecting investors by flaunting a letter from the   (RBI), the   claimed in the chargesheet it had filed in court recently. Pal was aware Rose Valley was banned by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and yet chose to endorse the firm and promote it, the CBI noted. 

 "Pal, in an attempt to validate  's businesses, wrote a letter to the RBI, on his official letterhead on May 29, 2010, in which he sought a clarification whether or not the company was genuine. Pal, in his letter to RBI, claimed he purchased a land from Rose Valley and wanted to know whether Rose Valley falls under RBI's purview. RBI replied in negative. The reply of RBI was arranged to misuse and mislead the investors. Pal had not purchased any land from Rose Valley. He was well aware of SEBI's ban order against Rose Valley," said the CBI chargesheet, a copy of which was seen by TOI.
 
 Though the chargesheet is silent as to how Rose Valley misused the RBI reply, CBI officials said the company tried to convince the investors that the central bank has nothing against its business. Pal was a director in Rose Valley Chain Marketing Systems and Idea Projects Limited, two subsidiaries of Rose Valley Group, from March to August in 2010, the chargesheet pointed out. He and his family took Rs 55,10,155 from Rose Valley, it added. 
 
 The CBI said Pal used to draw Rs one lakh per month salary from Rose Valley. Besides, he allegedly availed money from a secret fund managed by the company. The charges, though, were rejected by Pal's lawyer. 
 
 The probe agency said in a reported attempt to protect Rose Valley, Pal, in his official letterhead, had sent a complaint to former union finance minister Pranab Mukhejree on June 2, 2010, to initiate action against 16 chit fund companies. "But Pal strangely did not mention Rose Valley's name in the list," the chargesheet said. 
 
 It said Pal allegedly deputed his driver Dinanath Singh to collect money from different offices of Rose Valley Group, the details of which are under investigation. 
 
 The chargesheet also said Sudip Bandyopadhyay, a TMC MP and close aide of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, also availed financial benefits to the tune of nearly Rs 30 lakh from Rose Valley. 
 
 "In October 2012, Rose Valley spent Rs 17,17,800 on a Europe trip of Sudip and his wife Nayana, a TMC MLA," the chargesheet said. 
 
 Bandyopadhyay had sent his personal security officer Ghulam Hosain Qaderi to Rose Valley office to collect Rs five lakh, the chargesheet mentioned. 
 
 Lawyer Sidhartha Das, who represents both Pal and Bandyopadhyay, said the charges against his clients are fabricated. "Prima facie, the charges against them do not stand as alleged by the CBI. Today we appealed to the high court to grant bail to Bandyopadhyay. The hearing is reserved," Das told TOI 
 
 
