PUNE: The cost of many   in the city has multiplied as the civic body has failed to execute them as per the schedule. While the civic administration   for the delay, politicos claim the   has not taken a keen interest to speed up the process.

 The cost for a few projects has, in fact, almost doubled since their announcement.
 
 Metro Rail
 
 The first phase of the metro rail project, was approved by the Union cabinet in 2016, eight years after work on the project report began. In this period, its cost has gone up by 45%, from Rs 7,894 crore in 2009 to Rs 11,420 crore now.
 
 The project, expected to benefit around 50 lakh people in the area, is likely to finish in five years. Its construction is set to begin next week on Swargate-Pimpri route, said Brijesh Dixit, MD of Maha Metro.
 
 The battle between leaders on the route caused most of the delay . Some politicians wanted the entire route underground, while others wanted a mix of underground and elevated stations.
 
 24X7 Water Supply
 
 The 24x7 water supply project will ensure every household in the city receives round-the-clock, metered water supply and ensures the payment is made according to usage.
 
 The work will include laying of 1,600km-long pipelines, construction of water tanks, and installation of meters.The project got the green signal from the standing committee in 2011, when its cost was estimated at Rs 1,800 crore. Now, as per PMC estimates, it would be put into action over the next five years at a cost of Rs 2,800 crore.
 
 The project was delayed due to various reasons, including opposition from some political leaders and lack of response to tenders.
 
 “We have been following up on this project. Paper work is complete. Work on building tanks is underway . We hope to start laying pipelines soon,“ said  , head of  
 
 Riverfront Development
 
 This project will benefit a 44-km stretch of the Mula and Mutha rivers that pass through the city . It is expected to restore the river bank, temples and ghats, focus on pedestrian access and bicycle routes and ensure a minimum width of 100m to 150m for water flow in the rivers. In 2014, PMC estimated the project would cost nearly Rs 750 crore. It has now gone up to Rs 999 crore.
 
 “The cost has gone up because many initiatives under this project have been increased. More works such as GIS tracking, sewage treatment plants are also to be done,“ said  , a superintending engineer in PMC.
 
