

 
 By zero year, NCTE was not engaged in processing of new applications for new colleges. It doesn’t mean zero classes and no admissions, but an administrative facility to give us the time space to re-orient what we do. There are lot of corruption allegations against NCTE. So now NCTE staff should give us the entire asset portfolio of themselves and their families which will be out in the public domain. We are making the entire office paperless, closing all our regional offices where the allegations of corruption are more. In public space, more than proof, we need to have credibility.
 
 
 
 such radical reforms? Who amI to judge that? But look at the results of the national assessment survey of  . The teaching learning situation is actually not improving. The beginning of education reform is actually teacher reforms. If you don’t have good teachers, there will be no good teaching and there will be no good students. It is an entire cascade. 70% to 80% of such (teacher education) colleges are actually in the private sector. However, I am not making a judgment call. What I am saying is let’s implement a well thought out and accountable accreditation process.
 
 
 
 The economics of this enterprise is not there, and yet private players are masquerading that they are in compliance. Teacher education is meant for philanthropy and for government. These (private) institutions masquerading as not for profit are using it to covert black money into white. Not all of them. But such institutions will be out of action soon as we’ll roll out the process on July 31.
 
 
 
 We are bringing the best experts in the world to re-configure the TET (teacher eligibility test). We want the TET to be able to assess attitude, skill and knowledge and we are going to bring all the three aspects into TET testing. Just because a teacher knows one plus one equals two, he should not become a teacher. The best quality of a teacher is empathy.
 
 We have one crore in-service teachers in India, whose quality needs to improve. For that, we are implementing the ‘National Teacher Platform’, which will be launched on Teacher’s Day.
 
 
 
 Based on the NCF (National Curriculum Framework), we are creating curated material that can help every teacher in every school, class, subject, topic to teach properly. We will give the resource which will be NCTE stamped good quality content.
 
 
 
 Even after extending the date to December, only 7,000-odd colleges submitted the data whereas our estimate is there are 15,000 to 16,000 colleges. Now we have extended it to July 31.
 
 The whole exercise is to integrate the databases we have and make it transparent. When they come for recognition and accreditation we are simply saying validate that. Based on that we are running the Teach-R, the accreditation and ranking process. We are hoping to complete the exercise by March 2018.
 
