PUNE: Inspired by a   based on real-life incidents of crime, a second-year BSc student hatched an extortion plot to threaten to abduct the daughter of the employer of her mother, a  .

 The student and her boyfriend followed the exact modus operandi as shown in the television serial to a T. She also had an alibi ready in case she was caught. 
 
 They used different cellphones and SIM cards to make threat calls and changed their locations constantly to elude the police. But the student’s last threat call from her own cell phone proved her undoing.
 
 The student had liquidated her mother’s fixed deposit before maturity and given Rs 60,000 to her boyfriend for setting up a mobile repairing shop. When her mother declined to give her nod to her wedding with her boyfriend, who is also pursuing a computer science course, unless the student returned her money, she hatched the plot to extort money from her mother’s employer, a tax consultant.
 
 On January 28, the tax consultant received a call from an  . The caller identified himself as a police officer and told the consultant that he got a tip-off that the consultant and his wife were involved in illegal trading of turtles. The caller demanded Rs 40 lakh for not arresting him and also threatened to abduct his daughter if he did not pay him.
 
 “When the consultant started receiving continuous threat calls, he approached police and lodged the complaint,” said Sitaram More, inspector of the crime branch (unit-III). While scrutinising the calls, the police found that the last call was made from the SIM card used by the daughter of the domestic help. “We found that the student was missing since Wednesday and her cellphone was not reachable,” More said.
 
 Suspecting her involvement, police began looking for her. She was finally traced near   on Thursday. But the student had an alibi ready. “She claimed she was kidnapped by some unidentified persons and later dumped somewhere near Kondhwa,” More said, adding that she spilled the beans during questioning. 
 
 Her boyfriend has been arrested.
 
 
