CHENNAI: Notwithstanding the diesel activism over the past one year, the fuel continues to command more than 50% of all passenger vehicle segments except the entry level A and the B segment hatchback. According to data, the only big volume segments where diesel is less than 30% of the market is the entry level mini car market comprising popular models like Maruti Alto, Tata Tiago, Renault Kwid, Maruti WagonR, among others. In every other segment, diesel continues to command the larger share of sales and the correction -- from 2015 to 2016 -- has been only 3-4 percentage points. In the higher price tag segments, diesel's dominance continues to be overwhelming. According to the industry data, even in the entry level A segment, diesel's share has grown from 1% to 5% due to the introduction of diesel models such as the Tata Tiago and Mahindra KUV100. In comparison, diesel's share in the bulge bracket B-segment hatchback market has seen the sharpest erosion -- down to 34% from 46% the year before. It's the only segment where customers have moved away from diesel. In contrast, the sedan market is still mainly diesel with the fuel option commanding 56% and 66% respectively of the B-segment sedan (Honda Amaze, Hyundai Xcent) and C-segment sedan volumes (Honda Civic, Hyundai Elantra, Toyota Corolla). The MPV and SUV market continues to be overwhelmingly diesel with the fuel share higher in the more expensive models. Luxury SUVs like Q5, X3, M Class among others are 100% diesel. Even premium SUVs like SanteFe, Rexton, Endeavour, Fortuner are 96% diesel though the fuel share has come down from 2015.  “The problem with diesel was largely restricted to the Delhi-NCR region and although a few other states talked about action, nothing really happened on the ground. The reason diesel is more popular than petrol in higher end SUVs and MPVs is because of performance. In smaller vehicles, people are not looking for performance and use the car for city driving mostly so petrol suits them better. That segment is also value-conscious so the diesel-petrol model price differential also pinches them. As sentiments settle down, diesel will continue to dominate higher end SUVs and MPVS,” said Abdul Majeed, partner, PwC. Typically a diesel variant is at Rs 1 lakh pricier than its petrol counterpart. India is the only market other than Europe where diesel has a substantial presence despite narrowing of price gap between petrol and diesel. The real impact of the diesel ban and resultant debate has actually been on the commercial hatchback segment, said Kumar Kandaswami, senior director - Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India. “Earlier that segment was predominantly diesel, now there has been a shift towards gasoline and alternative drive trains as well, in the SUV/MPV segment,” he said. Diesel continues to rule; but in the bulge bracket hatchback market, which is 65% of the total passenger car volume, diesel has taken a hit, he added.