PATNA: The   has taken serious note of sudden drop in the punctuality of mail and express trains either originating or passing through the five divisions of East Central Railway (ECR). It has asked the ECR officials to take corrective measures to ensure that the trains run on time. The overall drop in punctuality of passenger trains was 23% in the first week of February alone.
 
  In a letter to ECR headquarters, the Board said, “With weather clearing up, there is no reason why target punctuality cannot be achieved. Immediate steps should be taken to monitor trains, control asset failures and initiate drives against late running of trains.”
  
  According to sources, Danapur division registered a cumulative punctuality rate of 65.73% in February. Late running of passenger trains and detention of long distance trains at the outer signals are common in Danpaur division of ECR. Alarm chain pulling and hosepipe disconnection also lead to delays, sources said.
  
  The Bihar Daily Passengers’ Association has blamed Danapur control room for detaining trains at the outer signals. “Detention of Pune-Patliputra Express, Howrah-Patna Express, Howrah-Patna Jansatabdi Express, Hatia-Patna Express, Cochin-Patna Express and other trains at the outer signals or at small stations is common,” the association said, adding premier trains like Sampoorna Kranti Express, Shramjeevi Express and   are also detained in the division for several hours.
  
  On Wednesday, five passenger trains were cancelled and three rescheduled at Patna Junction. A railway official of Danapur, however, passed the buck on the railway ministry for delaying execution of the third line between Buxar and Mokama. “The Mughalsarai-Patna-Jhajha mainline has already reached about 160% saturation point. Detention of trains cannot be curbed completely unless a separate third line for commuter trains is built on a priority basis,” he said.
  
  According to sources, Neora, Phulwari, Sachivalaya Halt, Gulzarbagh and Patna Saheb are bottleneck points where long distance trains are detained for hours, much to the chagrin of passengers. Recently, a sick patient was rushed to the Patna Medical College and Hospital from Gulzarbagh station as the train in which he was travelling was detained for an hour at the station, sources said.
  
  
 Railways has decided to attach one more AC chair car coach with Patliputra-Raxaul Intercity and Patna-Saharsa Rajrani Express from March 16. However, one general bogie each from these two trains would be detached, sources said, adding   and Shaktinagar-Varanasi Intercity will have one general bogie each from March 11 in lieu of AC chair cars.
