KOCHI: There is an increase in the number of wildlife species, including snakes, civets, birds and reptiles, which are being rescued by forest officials from the city.
As the state is about to observe wildlife week from October 2, forest department rescued 294 wildlife species, of which 213 are pythons, from the city and its suburban areas till September this year. Forest officials say this is mainly due to the destruction of their habitat due to the declining green cover in the name of development.
 
 Besides pythons, 41 civets and 10 cobras were also rescued during this period.   under Kodanad range rescued other species like king cobra, cobra,  's viper, wolf snake, star tortoise, barn owl, peacock, parrot, mottled wo od owl, civet and others this year.
 
 The data, provided by the officials, show the number of species being rescued rise every month and the highest number was 74 in September.
 
 Officials say pythons flow along with the river water from forests during heavy rain and get stranded on the shore when the current subsides.
 
 The number of wildlife species rescued rose with the arrival of monsoon. Meanwhile, the summer heat also forced the species to enter into human habitations in the city in search of water. Forest officials rescued 21 wildlife species in February and 18 in March.
 
 Officials rescued most of the pythons from   and Mattancherry areas, which turned out to be a better habitat for them due to high number of rodents.
 
 “Snakes and many other species live in shrubs near human habitation. But when people started to clear the shrubs for construction pur poses, the wildlife species lost their habitat. Pythons usually lay 20 ­ 30 eggs. In forests, only 5% survive due to threat from predators. Since there are no predators for them in city areas, majority of the eggs laid by pythons survive.Most pythons we rescue are females,“ say   , a forest official.
 
 The wildlife species rescued are being released in Malayattoor forest area. The star tortoise rescued in July was sent to   wildlife sanctuary . Nowadays, people are aware of the risks involved in killing wildlife species as they will finally end up in prisons. They inform us whenever a wildlife species is seen,“ said Kodanad range officer  .
 
 As python falls under Schedule 1 of the Indian Wildlife Protection Act 1972, killing it will invite seven years of imprisonment and it is a non-bailable offence. Killing civets will also put the accused behind bars up to seven years as the species falls under Schedule 2 of the Act.
 
