In the past she has travelled to adjacent villages near Mumbai and Delhi performing her expository  . With the help of a translator, the US-born Israeli theatre artiste and educator had put across the strong message against domestic violence many a time through as part of various gender sensitisation programmes and also interacted with the rural women in India. 

 And on Sunday,   brought her acclaimed monologue   to a popular venue in the city. With her performance she highlighted the menace of domestic abuse that goes unheard in many homes. “I love India, especially the women here, for delicately balancing modernity and tradition. During my interactions with them, I realised that we have similar issues to tackle, as women are victims of patriarchy globally. In India, I get lot of male audience for my performances, and I want to thank them for the support they extend to the cause for which we are fighting for,” she said after her performance.
 Flowers Aren't Enough tells the story of an upper-middle class young woman named, Michal, who silently endures the treatment meted out to her by her husband. The monologue is woven around the harrowing tales narrated to Naomi by countless women, who were victims of domestic abuse and were willing to share their all too common experiences. “It is a global issue that needs to be addressed to make the world more equitable,” she said.
 “I performed the monologue in over 2000 stages around the world in the last 20 years. I could connect to the audience where ever I performed as it’s a global issue faced by half of world's population. It speaks for equality among all; men should give respect to women. Women are creators and should be treated same like one's own mother," she said adding, “First we need to dispel the perception that abused women are weak.”
 Organised by   in Hyderabad, the monologue was a strong, compelling and powerful narrative on the issue of domestic violence that are frequently masquerades bu penetrating layers of silence and refusal. “Changes, like ripples, starts small but can lead to positive transformation,” said the artiste.
 
 
