 (47), an MBA from  , Ludhiana, was living his American dream while slowly but surely inching towards US citizenship, one of the most-sought-after among the Punjabi diaspora.

 However, US President  's travel ban has left him stunned, forcing him to think of a plan-B.
 
 “I started my jour ney from Ludhiana to fulfill my childhood dream of attaining US citizenship around 16 years back. I reached New York with few dollars in my pocket, working as cabbie, bartender and storekeeper before coming to Dubai in 2012,“ said Chadha, who is the operations manager with Emirates National Oil Company (ENOC).
 
 “I moved to Dubai because I badly needed dollars to fuel my US dream. I am still waiting for the green card. I visit New York every five to six months to ensure my case is on track but now things are very uncertain,“ said Chadha, whose two teenaged daughters are studying in a New York school and his wife is with them.
 
 The proposed US legislation to slash the number of legal immigrants to the US by half within next decade could dash the hopes of tens of hundreds of Indian immigrants, who were waiting to attain the status of permanent resident that would eventually lead to US-citizenship.
 
 Kulwant Singh, CEO-cumfounder of Dubai-based Lama Group, said, “I think this stand for restricting visa or entry of an individual into any country is biased... In today's world we cannot lay borders.“
 
 His parents have been in the US since 1990s. “This situation is very nervous. I am waiting for the green card for the last 12 years and according to my immigration lawyer I could have got it by June. But now even he is not clear whether I would get it or not. I think it's solely Trump's America now and we have to look for some other option,“ said   (a Hoshiarpur-native), who is based in Bahrain and keeps shuffling between Chicago and Manama for his real estate business.
 
 Kandhari had moved to Manama after spending nine years in Chicago.
 
 Rahul Gupta, a Mohalibased NRI, who runs a travel consultancy in Jeddah (Saudi Arabia) and Dubai, said his company has experienced a sudden dip in the Punjabi applicants looking for US immigration.
 
 “Trump has created a fear among Punjabi immigrants, who are without a skilledbased visa. In the last onemonth, we have seen Punjabis changing their preference to Australia or  ,“ said Gupta.
 
 Punjabi techies are in a state of confusion. “My company placed me in Dubai in 2014 where I am handling UAE-government's leading telecom's software security. I thought Dubai could be my first step towards US but unfortunately there are rumours that US will soon change the policies related to H-1B visa for techies,“ said an IIT-graduate from Ropar, who works with a US-based IT-giant, requesting anonymity .
 
