RANCHI: A day after the Raghubar Das government gave a 72-hour ultimatum to unlicensed abattoirs and meat shops across Jharkhand, the state urban development and transport minister C P Singh called for a crackdown against the  , sale and consumption of bovine meat. 

 In a one-page letter to the chief minister, Singh said the state government must strictly implement with immediate effect the Jharkhand Bovine Animal Prohibition of Slaughter Act, 2005, which bans the slaughter of bovines and their sale and consumption. 
 
 “The Act has been in effect in Jharkhand since November 2005. It mandates that bovines — cows, buffaloes and calves — would not be harmed physically. The Act also said that their slaughter, sale and purchase is banned. Those found guilty are to be handed a rigorous three-year imprisonment term and a financial penalty,” Singh wrote, recounting that the Act also bans trade or illegal shipping of bovines to other states. 
 
 Singh added: “Despite the Act and its provisions, incidents in violation of the law are continuing unabated.” The Ranchi MLA, who is the former speaker of the assembly, also complained that slaughterhouses in Ranchi and across Jharkhand are causing “pollution to water bodies, environment and the atmosphere, threatening to cause serious illnesses to the common people”. 
 
 When contacted in the evening, Singh said he was equally concerned about the open slaughter of goats, pig and chicken on the street. “Almost a year ago, I had suggested to the   (RMC) that they should ensure that butchers cull animals away from public view. The suggestion was followed for a few days before things fell back in place again,” Singh said. 
 
 When questioned about the timing of raising the issue, the minister said, “You can say that the whole issue has come out after   chief miniter Aditya Nath Yogi order to shut down illegal abattoirs. There is no harm in being inspired from a good thing.”
 
 Meanwhile, a group of cow activists under the banner “Jharkhand Gau Raksha Manch” welcomed the Das government’s order against unlicensed abattoirs. 
 
 
