CHENNAI: After a lot of turmoil,   (CCFC) foreigners are all set to travel to Aizawl to take on   in an   match on Saturday. The players relented after receiving part-payment of their dues. TOI had on Monday reported that   players haven’t got their salaries for the last two months and the foreigners threatened that they won’t travel for their next game. They were also mulling to take the matter to   ( ).

 The fire, though, has been doused for the time with partial payment. A player, on conditions of anonymity, confirmed to TOI that they will be travelling to Aizawl. “Our accounts were credited with some money. At least, it is better than nothing and we have decided to go for the match. They have promised to clear most of our dues by the end of Tuesday. Hopefully, we will get the full amount by the time we take the flight to Aizawl on Wednesday morning,” the player said.
 
 The player further informed that the partial payments were being made only to some of his colleagues. “I had a chat with some of the other players. They told me they haven’t received any money so far. They are now concerned why the club didn’t pay them. Hopefully, they will fix the crisis soon,” the player said. CCFC, who admitted on Monday that the payments have been delayed, refused to take the blame. Krishnakumar R, partner and CFO of WTF Infotainment LLP, the owners of CCFC, said that the bank took time to remit the salaries despite the club transferring the money on Saturday. “I believe there were some internal errors with the bank. The bank had to do bulk remittance and that cannot be done from Chennai. We are also a new club and we wanted to do things legally. To be frank, we had only formed our company after the I-League started. So that also took some time. Moreover, the players were also travelling for away games and we couldn’t open their salary account,” Krishnakumar said.
 
 Interestingly, in a letter, which TOI is in possession of, exchanged by the club and the bank on Monday, Krishnakumar wrote that the players ‘‘did not perform’’ in Sunday’s game against Shillong Lajong FC due to ‘‘this delay’’. “These are payment to professional footballers. Because of this delay they did not perform in yesterday’s match,” Krishnakumar’s letter to the bank stated. Krishnakumar, however, didn’t want to read too much into the statement even though CCFC had lost the game 1-4. “It was meant to be a stinker to the bank. They are the reason for the delay. So I had to send them that letter mentioning our performance. I saw the match and our guys played a brilliant game,” he said.
 
 The CFO also clarified the non-payment of dues to some of the players. “A few players gave us wrong account information and that’s why the payments were not processed. For the foreigners, we had to get clearance from an auditor to make payments since they don’t have a PAN card here. That’s why there was a delay,” he said.
 
 
