NEW DELHI: A 25-year-old man was killed and two others were injured after shots were fired outside a   venue in southeast Delhi’s   on Thursday night. Police said that the victim,  , was passing by when a group of hooligans opened fire at someone against whom they had an axe to grind. 

 Family members of Yadav went on a rampage after the incident. They hurled stones at the wedding venue suspecting some visitors of indulging in celebratory firing. Later on Friday, two youths were detained by cops in connection with the incident.
 
 Around midnight on Thursday, Yadav was returning from a wedding ceremony in the  . He stopped to check out a fight between two groups outside another wedding venue. Eyewitnesses have told the cops that suddenly, one of them took out a pistol and fired in the air. One of the bullets had pierced Yadav’s abdomen. 
 
 Police said that Harneet Singh Monty, one of the injured, was an accused in a case of attempt to murder in 2014. He suffered a chest injury while the other man, Vikas Arya, was wounded in his thigh.
 
 An investigation revealed that Monty had an argument with a group of youths during which he thrashed them. When they chased after him, Monty entered the wedding venue to hide among the crowd. The youths came searching for him and waited outside. When he stepped out, they fired five-six rounds while chasing Monty. 
 
 “Initially, we though it to be the sound firecrackers, but later when we saw the youth running, we realised that it was a case of shooting. The bride and the groom ran away, leaving the ceremony midway, to save themselves from being hurt,” said the bride’s sister. 
 
 When the wedding guests came out of the venue, they found Yadav, Monty and Arya lying on the ground and informed the police. The three were bleeding profusely. Yadav and Monty were taken to Batra Hospital where the former died during treatment. Monty’s condition was said to be critical. Police said that Arya was discharged on Friday afternoon.
 
 “Six persons have been identified. One of the accused has been apprehended and is being interrogated. Raids are being conducted to trace the remaining accused persons,” said  , DCP (southeast). 
 
 Family members said Yadav worked as a clerk at a private company in Okhla.
 
 
