NAGPUR: The ‘Shetkari Karjmukti Sagharsh Yatra’ that started from Chandrapur on Wednesday and traversed through Yavatmal reached here on day 2. From here they proceeded to Wardha and will pass through western Vidarbha to enter Marathwada and finally culminate the march at Panvel on April 3.

 The Opposition parties have come together for the first time after the recent debacle in civic elections in the state to fan across 150 assembly segments to consolidate public opinion against the BJP. The   looks unstoppable after electoral wins in four states this month and last month’s stupendous performance in   and Zilla   in Maharashtra.
 
 The unending plight of farmers has come handy for all non-BJP parties to get together on one platform. The Devendra Fadnavis government has snubbed the Opposition by rejecting its demand for farm loan waiver while presenting the state budget. The government insists that Rs30,000 crore that may be needed to waive farm loans, could be put to better use by state investment in agriculture by way of providing farmers better water resources, good seeds and facilities that would make farmers self-sufficient through sustainable farming.
 
 The Congress party has taken a lead in this Opposition unity. It chose Vidarbha to start a fresh public campaign. The party has in the past succeeded to bounce back to power by gaining support of Vidarbha region and is hoping for a repeat, said party sources. Stalwarts of the Congress and NCP including MPCC president Ashok Chavan, former  , ex-deputy CM and NCP leader Ajit Pawar and his party colleague Jitendra Awhad were joined by Samajwadi Party MLA Abu Azami, AIMIM’s Jishan Husain, RPI faction leader Jogendra Kawade.
 
 Luck, however, does not seem to be in the favour as this combined Opposition effort as they have got the timing wrong. Parts of Vidarbha and Marathwada are reeling under severe heatwave. While the leaders are moving in an air-conditioned bus and a convoy of plush cars, on Thursday many of them chose to remain seated inside the vehicles as the public rally was underway at busy Variety Square near the Gandhi statue.
 
