PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa dismissed an appeal filed by  , who is serving life imprisonment imposed by a trial court for committing murder of his colleague, a hotel receptionist, for rejecting his love advances.
 
 The accused had challenged the order passed by the sessions judge at Margao. He was also directed to pay a fine of Rs 10,000.
 
 According to the prosecution, the accused, who was also a receptionist in the same hotel, was in love with the deceased  . On June 13, 2010, the accused had stabbed Shaikh with a knife in the neck and other parts of the body, causing her  . The accused took the drastic step after she declined his advances.
 
 During the high court hearing, public prosecutor S R Rivankar, said that as many as 18 injuries were found on the body. Eye witnesses have deposed that even after the victim fell down, the accused continued to assault her. Rivankar pointed out that it was a case of premeditated assault showing depravity. He also added that such cases are to be dealt with sternly.
 
 The lawyer appearing on behalf of the accused argued that his client was provoked by the victim. The high court held that there is no evidence of any provocation as such forthcoming from the victim, which can be gathered from the evidence of eye witnesses.
 
 “In fact, the evidence shows that the appellant has committed the offence with premeditation. He was following the vitctim with a knife in his possession,” Justice C V Bhandang and Justice   observed.
 
 Dealing with the argument of the appellant that the prosecution has not proved motive behind the offence, the high court held that there is enough evidence to establish motive in this case as the appellant being in love with the victim and her not reciprocating the advances.
 
 “In a case where there is evidence of the eye witnesses, the presence of motive falls into insignificance. We find that there is overwhelming evidence as to the occurrence of the incident forthcoming from the eye witnesses to establish complicity of the appellant in the offence,” the judges observed.
 
 The accused, Abhijit Patil, who was also a receptionist in the same hotel, was in love with the deceased Mushrufia Shaikh. On June 13, 2010, Patil had stabbed Shaikh with a knife in the neck and other parts of the body, causing her death at Margao. The accused took the drastic step after Shaikh declined his love advances
 
