Vadodara: The efforts by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) to treat moderately acute malnourished (MAM) children seems to be paying off. The civic body was the first in the state to start treating MAM children to ensure that their condition did not worsen further.

 Out of the 25,240 children that the VMC had screened at its anganwadis, it had come to light that 218 were SAM while 1,318 were MAM. But when the VMC began treatment of MAM children, more children were added to the category and, in all, 1,429 children were treated by the civic body.
 
 The initiative to treat MAM children was taken up as by the civic body at it anganwadis or courtyard shelters. Officials said that majority of children from the marginal sections of the society up to the age of five years go to these shelters. Over 70% or 994 of the MAM children have recovered from undernourishment.
 
 While the Severely Acute Malnourished (SAM) children are given ready to use therapeutic food (RUTF) Balamrutam, the MAM children are given ready to use supplementary food (RUSF) Balamul. 
 
 “The supplement Balamul was specifically prepared for the city and it was for the first time that it was put to use,” said VMC commissioner Dr Vinod Rao.
 
 Rao said that the treatment of MAM children was necessary as early intervention could ensure that they do not slip into the severely acute malnourished (SAM) category. 
 
 “It is a preventive exercise. The treatment of MAM children will be a continuous process. It is an eight week treatment,” said Rao. The regimen also includes administering deworming medicines to the children.
 
 Under the programme that was launched on the Women’s Day in March this year, one sachet of the RUSF Balamul is fed to the MAM children every day for a period of eight weeks. The weight, height and girth of the upper arm of the child is recorded every week to monitor progress. 
 
 The VMC has also ordered a senior officer monitor the affairs of anganwadi allocated to him. The officers are supposed to visit the anganwadi and even upload photographs on a chat application group. 
 
 The VMC is now looking to take its encouraging results to the state government so that the possibility of replicating the process elsewhere can be taken up.
 
 
