Nagpur: An internal letter sent by All India RBI Employees Association (AIRBEA) to the apex bank’s management has revealed that the practice of examining high-denomination currency notes before releasing the supplies into market has been dropped after  .

 This has led to several misprinted or “freak” notes entering the system. This could have been avoided had the earlier process of examining even new notes printed from the security press was continued, AIRBEA stated in its letter to the top bosses.
 
 As the RBI is working overtime to print new high-value notes of Rs2,000 and Rs500 denominations, the process of 100% preliminary verification and detailed counting has been skipped to avoid the delay, said a source. Till demonetisation, it was mandatory to count and examine all such notes after it reached the currency chest of a bank to which the notes are supplied by the RBI.
 
 The checking had to be done by the respective banks’ staff. The AIRBEA has requested that the RBI management should restart the practice so that “freak” notes can be prevented from reaching the public. This can be done by putting in place a proper mechanised system, the letter stated.
 
 According to the letter, such notes are prone to easy mutilation and are reaching various exchange counters in large numbers. However, the notes cannot be changed under the current exchange rules, which need to be suitably amended.
 
 The union has also asked the management to clarify that notes which have been scribbled upon do not cease to be legal tender. The letter pointed out that such notes are not being accepted by commercial banks which are redirecting customers to the RBI. Due to posts in the social media, there is a general impression that scribbled notes cease to be legal tender, the letter stated.
 
 The AIRBEA has also asked the management to extend the facility of accepting old notes at all its centres, as against five at present. The management has been urged to extend the facility to Indian citizens as well. At present, only NRIs and those who were abroad from November 9 to December 30 can deposit the notes at five designated RBI offices in the country.
 
 The letter stated that there is a huge NRI population in states such as Kerala, Gujarat, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Punjab but the facility of depositing old notes is only available at RBI offices in Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai and Nagpur.
 
 Few solutions
 
 A large number of misprinted notes of Rs2,000 and 500 denominations have reached the market
 
 This could be avoided if the practice of prior checking and counting is continued
 
 RBI management should extend the facility of depositing old notes to non-NRIs
 
 It should have the facility in more RBI centres, as against five now
 
 
