BENGALURU: Cracking the whip on doctors who are refusing to serve in rural areas, the state government has issued show-cause notices to 103 government   from service.

 According to rules, a qualified government postgraduate doctor has to serve the first year of his practice in a rural area, which most of the doctors facing action had refused. They had approached court against the norm, prompting the government action. Last year, the government had also offered them incentives, bringing their salary on a par with doctors in private hospitals, still nothing changed.
 
 “Most of them enjoy the salary and remain silent about their absence from the  . Show-cause notices were sent last week to find out what has gone wrong. If they fail to respond by January 31, we will dismiss them from service,” said Subodh Yadav, commissioner, department of health and family welfare.
 
 The situation is the same in every government-run hospital in the state, where patients don’t get proper treatment in the absence of doctors. “Most doctors are either busy practicing privately and many simply neglect the government’s transfer order to work in remote villages,” said a senior health official.
 
 About 70% of the primary health centres have no doctors or have irregular ones. Sources quote instances of doctors who have not reported for 1 year to 12 years, and yet were on the records. Dr S R Ugalwatt, a health officer in Bagalkot, has been issued a show-cause notice for remaining absent since 2006.
 
 “Doctors being absent from duty among the major reasons why most people don’t find government hospitals reliable, with most preferring private hospitals even if they are expensive. Patients suffer immensely, especially in rural areas. Most doctors posted at government hospitals never report to work. Dismissing such doctors was necessary. Sacking of the doctors will pave the way for recruitment of new ones,” said  , a retired government doctor, who worked in rural areas most of his life.
 
 A young government doctor, who has refused to take up rural posting, however, said, “Instead of sacking doctors, the government must make efforts to understand the reason behind their absence. Living conditions in rural Karnataka are pathetic, definite to make an urban doctor feel homesick, deprived of the basic necessities of life they are used to. Though the entry-level doctors get a decent monthly salary of Rs 40,000 to Rs 50,000, their professional growth is uncertain.”
 
