Jaipur: Following Supreme Court directions, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) on Friday took possession of   Hotel, Kanak Bhawan and a horse stable in Central Park.

 The JDA had served notices on May 16 to the occupants to vacate the buildings and land within 10 days after the Supreme Court ordered the authority to take possession of these properties.
 
 “The properties, spread over nearly 35,000 square metres, were taken over peacefully,” a senior JDA official said.
 
 The nature of the acquired land will not be changed and will remain part of the Central Park as per the city's master plan.
 
 “The acquired structures and the land will remain part of the Central Park and the JDA will not auction it for any commercial activity,” said a senior JDA official.
 
 The Lakshmi Vilas Hotel and the adjoining marriage garden come to about 18,000 sq m and Kanak Bhawan 3,890 sq m. The stable land situated in the Central Park is about 11,000 sq m.
 
 Under the Rajasthan State Land Acquisition Act, the Urban Improvement Trust (UIT) acquired 322 bigha land in Rambagh Complex for public utility in 1973. As per UIT claims, the two prime structures were part of the “acquired” land.
 
 In May 2010, an attempt was made by the JDA to take possession of these structures after the Rajasthan High Court gave a favourable order on public interest litigation (PIL), seeking court’s intervention over JDA’s failure to take physical possession of the acquired properties.
 
 The JDA initiated an eviction drive and put up signboards after sealing the building. However, the seal was opened after a stay was granted by the Supreme Court.
 
 It was informed that Lakshmi Vilas was originally an estate motor garage and constructed during the period of Sawai Man Singh II. It was converted into a hotel by erstwhile ruler Bhawani Singh.
 
 In 1986, Bhawani Singh sold both Lakshmi Vilas as well as Kanak Bhawan. The three families who owned the properties were using parts of it for residential and commercial purpose. However, the JDA challenged the sale of both the properties.
 
 Surrounded by greenery, walking/jogging tracks, a golf course, a polo ground, Lakshmi Vilas was a popular tourist destination ever since it was converted to a heritage hotel in the early 1970s. 
 
 “These heritage structures will not be demolished. The utility of these two buildings will be decided after vacating them,” official sources said.
 
 
