HOWRAH: One hundred and twenty years after Swami Vivekananda founded the monastic order, the   on Monday will usher in a generational change as it elects its 16th president.

 The former president,  , who passed away on June 18, received mantra diksha from  , a monastic disciple of Sri Ramakrishna, in 1938.Swami Atmasthanandaji was the last president of the order who was given mantra diksha by a direct disciple of Sri Ramakrishna. He was a third-generation disciple.
 
 None of the five vicepresidents of the order, including the senior-most vicepresident Swami Smaranananda who is also functioning as the order's interim president, has received mantra diksha from a direct disciple of Sri Ramakrishna. In 1960, Swami Smaranananda received his diksha from  , who was a disciple of Swami Bharamananda -a direct disciple of Sri Ramakrishna. If sources are to be believed, after several meetings throughout Sunday Swami Smaranananda is emerging as the unanimous choice for the next president of the order. Swami Smaranananda is 87 years old.
 
 “I would not say it to be a generational change at the helm, but yes the new president maharaj will be the first president to be the fourthgeneration disciple. All the five vice-presidents now, including Swami Smaranananda Ji, are fourth-generation disciples. Time moves on and this is an inevitability,“ a senior monk said.
 
 If chosen to be its president, Swami Smaranananda will follow the footsteps of his predecessor Swami Atmasthananda. Swami Smaranananda was promoted to the post of vice-president in 2007 while he was serving as the general secretary . Swami Atmasthananda became the general secretary in 1992 and five years later in 1997 he became a vice-president of the order. A decade later, in 2007, Swami Atmasthananda became the president. If elected, it will also be a decade later that Swami Smaranananda will follow his footsteps to the post of the president.
 
 According to a press communique, the Belur Math headquarters of Ramakrishna Math and Mission will formally announce the name of the new president maharaj at 11:30 am on Monday . The new president will formally take charge the next day, on Tuesday . The Ramakrishna Math is administered by a board of trustees. The board of trustees has an elected president, several vice-presidents, a general secretary, one or more assistant general secretaries and a treasurer. The board of trustees also forms the governing body which administers the Ramakrishna Mis sion also. The Ramakrishna Math and Mission's general secretary functions as the chief executive of both the orders. The board of trustees by itself consists of senior monks of the Ramakrishna order, chosen by a process of nomination-cum-election.Presently , this is a 20-member body .
 
 The president maharaj functions chiefly as the spiritual head of the order. President maharaj maintains this spiritual tradition through the process of mantradiksha or initiation.Through initiation, the original spiritual power and grace of the avatar flows into the hearts of aspirants and awakens the dormant spiritual potential in them. At present, the vice-presidents are also empowered to give spiritual initiation in India and outside India. In countries outside India, some of the heads of the centres in those countries have been empowered to give spiritual initiation.
 
