East Delhi resident Renu Aggarwal, who is in her late 30s, is a self-confessed ‘typical Indian housewife’ and says she has had little interest in cricket till now. “My husband and sons would always watch the matches, the men’s ones mostly. But apart from occasionally enquiring about the result I would never sit down for any match,” she tells us. This Sunday, however, Renu was glued to the TV for all 8 hours as Mithali Raj’s ‘Women in Blue’ took on the mighty   side in the final of the ICC Women’s World Cup. “This was the first time that I saw a complete match, and I loved every minute of it. I’m sad the team lost, but I finally understand the hype around cricket,” she says. The Indian women’s cricket team came agonizingly close to winning their maiden world title, but fell short by 9 runs. Despite the defeat, India’s run to the finals has generated unprecedented interest in women’s cricket across the country, particularly among women. For many women like Renu, Sunday’s game was their initiation to cricket. If cricket is a religion, then it surely found quite a few new converts this World Cup.

  
  
 
 
 For most first-time watchers, the challenge was to understand the nuances and technicalities of a complex game like cricket. Akanksha Singhal, a Gurgaon resident, says, “I know cricket is huge and I have seen the odd IPL game with friends, but I was never a fan. I don’t know the names of more than three-four Indian players. But I felt compelled to watch Sunday’s final. I was constantly texting my guy friends and googling to get clarity on some of the developments. Terms like LBW and Powerplay were puzzling, but it was fun. I was hooked and could not take my eyes off the screen.”
 
 
 
 Varsha Sharma, a student from Vasant Kunj, says, “I was taken aback that it was an 8-hour game. Mujhe laga 3-4 ghante mein khatm ho jayega like most other sports. But once I got interested, I didn’t realize I had been watching throughout the day. It was heartbreaking to see the team lose in the end. I’m told that it was the last chance for some players like Mithali to win the cup and I feel sad for them. I just hope that the interest that women’s cricket has generated continued to stay like this.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 There are new fans who say they would have never imagined themselves to stay up till late to finish watching a cricket match. Reeti Khanna, an IT professional from South Delhi, tells us, “I didn’t even touch my food till the match got over, and I’m someone who hits the sack by 10.30pm at the most. I had always thought cricket was this tough, complex and dull game, but this game proved my notions wrong. It was truly a thriller. I was on the edge of my seat mostly. I never thought I’d be this excited for a cricket match ever.”
 Rachna Singh, a housewife from Patel Nagar, adds, “I am glad that the first game I saw was a women’s cricket match. I have been turned off by cricket because of the hype around it and the obscene amount of money in it. So, it was good to see an underdog story here. The authorities should take note that despite the attention given to the men’s team, the women are actually our best performers right now. When the men lost the final (in the Champions Trophy), they surrendered. The women at least fought hard.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 While there is a women’s Big Bash League in Australia and women’s version of T20 tournaments exist in England too, India hasn’t launched a women’s version of its most lucrative offering – the Indian Premier League. The new converts to cricket say they are hoping Indian women get their own IPL soon so that they can watch more women’s cricket in the time to come. Shazia, a   student, says, “I have seen men’s cricket matches and IPL games too. But this was my first time watching women’s cricket and I see no difference in the commitment and professionalism. I really hope there is a women’s IPL too now. I want to see more of women’s cricket now. Who says it is not as interesting or exciting as the men’s game? I’m going to follow every game that the Indian women’s cricket team plays from now on.”
 
