NAGPUR: A  , identified as Anita Tiwari, was killed by her husband Sanath Sen and his relative Betu Sen at a rented room at   on Friday. The murderers slit the woman’s throat with a sharp weapon. They were caught after nearby residents spotted them trying to dispose of the body by wrapping it in a blanket and bedsheet.

 The fleeing duo was intercepted at Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh by an MIDC police station team under the supervision of Zonal DCP Deepali Masirkar, and senior PI Sunil Mahadik, and brought back to the city late on Friday evening.
 
 Sanath had a love marriage with Anita but they fell out after he started suspecting her character. Sanath arrived in the city on Wednesday from Rewa in Madhya Pradesh with a plan to kill Anita. The couple had been staying at Betu’s house, where the murder took place, in a property owned by Rajnarayan Patel. Sanath and Betu are related and belong to the same family at Rewa. After killing Anita, they had wrapped the body in a blanket and bedsheet, and were taking to dispose it of.
 
 However, residents of Kartik Nagar were woken up by stray dogs barking at Sanath and Betu as they headed towards a hillock to dispose of the body at a place which would have been covered up by debris later in the day. A woman sleeping on the terrace with her daughter was the first to spot two persons, under the light of a full moon, dragging something heavy towards the hillock. The petrified woman alerted a neighbour. 
 
 Plagued by regular thefts, the residents first assumed some burglars were trying to decamp with valuables. Scared of attacked with weapons, the residents did not challenge the duo but slowly stepped out of their houses to see what was happening. Seeing the residents, Sanath and Betu dropped the body behind a tree and rushed away, though they were waiting nearby to gauge the movement of the residents.
 
 When cops from MIDC and Hingna, alerted by the residents, reached the place, the duo decided to slip away. “The two had waited for long before sneakily moving away as the cops started coming in,” said a resident.
 
 Sources said the duo had tried their best to wash off the blood from the floor and room but could not do it.
 
 A woman said the two had come to a tube-well at 11.30pm to wash hands, but then returned home. “The two had first dragged the body till a boundary wall that separates their lane from the outer part of the locality. They hurled the body over the wall before jumping over the wall themselves,” said another resident.
 
 Blood stains on the boundary wall confirmed the statement of the residents. “There was a quarrel at their room, and I had intervened at 4.30pm. I had heard her asking the men inside to take her to her mother’s place. There were some noises after that but then all noises stopped,” said Ananya, daughter of the landlord.
 
 Senior PI Hemant Kharabe of   was the first to spot the place of murder. The matter was registered at MIDC police station later.
 
