CHANDIGARH: Gurugram police commissioner and state police chief are not on the same page when it comes to seeking   into the inter-state fake arms’ licence and illegal weapon import racket that was busted five months back. While Gurugram police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar had written to DGP B S Sandhu on July 7 suggesting that the case be handed over to the central probe agency, the Haryana Police head wants the crime branch to take over the probe.

 So far around 45 illegal fire arms, including US-made rifles, pistols and revolvers, have been recovered from accused in Gurugram and gun houses in Karnal and Jagadhri in Yamunanagar district. Eight persons, including three Gurugram police personnel, have been arrested. In addition, arrest warrants of six more identified accused of Uttar Pradesh and Gurugram have been issued.
 
 When contacted, DGP Sandhu told TOI, “We also have very good police officers. We can get the case examined by our crime branch. Though final decision is yet to be taken.”
 
 Explaining why recommended a CBI probe, Khirwar said, “Since the case has inter-state ramifications and multiple authorities are involved, I have suggested CBI probe. We have arrested some people but we are still investigating from where very good quality illegal weapons reached the accused.”
 
 Khirwar said that apparently illegal weapons were being supplied from Khurja in Uttar Pradesh to people in various parts of NCR and other states. Police are yet to establish whether recovered weapons, other than some of the identified imported fire arms, are first imitation (fine quality copies) of the same imported weapons and what is their source.
 
 Assistant commissioner of police (Sadar) Anil Yadav, who is heading the special investigating team probing the racket, said that there are two aspects of the case. One is the fake arms licences aspect and another of illegal weapons. “There also seems to be involvement of three CRPF personnel. But we cannot confirm anything since probe is still in progress,” added Yadav.
 
 There are several things perplexing the investigators in the whole racket. As there is ban since 1986 on import of fire arms for personnel use, police believe that accused used to make first imitation copy of earlier imported weapons and used to sell them on high price on the name of original imported weapons. However, they are not very sure and think the main accused could have actually found a way to import banned weapons into the country.
 
 
 
 
 FIR in the case was registered at police station civil lines Gurugram on February 10 against mastermind Manish Bhardwaj and his accomplices for illegally renewing licences of at least 15 weapons that were earlier registered on fake licences. Bhardwaj was arrested from Mohali international airport on February 24, when he was trying to leave the country. On his information, the police recovered seven guns, thousands of cartridges and fake licences from his domestic help’s room. Weapons and cartridges were also recovered from Bhardwaj’s accomplice Mohan Lal.
 
 
 
 
 Investigation has revealed that using his contacts, Manish Bhardwaj used to obtain arms’ licences from northeastern states like Nagaland and Manipur as norms are more relaxed there. Thereafter on the basis of fake no objection certificates he used to get them re-registered in Gurugram in connivance with the police.
 
 Then Bhardwaj used to sell these arms’ licences by charging between Rs 3-4 lakh from people in Gurugram and NCR. It has also come out that he also used to sell illegal weapons procured from Khurja in Uttar Pradesh. It is also being probed whether Bhardwaj used to get first imitation copy of the imported weapons made from Uttar Pradesh or elsewhere. He used to sell these at very high price, along with fake licence, fooling people.
 
 
 
 
 Another FIR recommended for CBI probe was registered on April 14 in the civil lines police station Gurugram for illegally importing rifles used in sports events. Gurugram shooter and son of a judge Suraj Rao alleged that Chandigarh resident Hardeep Bedi had misused his documents to import additional gun from a Slovenia-based weapons company Artek DOO. Rao had handed over documents and money to Slovenian company’s Indian representative Bedi to import .22 free pistol and ammunition but Bedi also procured another weapon on Rao’s name. Bedi was arrested by Gurugram police from Chandigarh on April 15.
 
 DCP (crime) Sumit Kuhar, told TOI, “Unlike purchase of normal fire arms, there is no need of arms licence for purchasing sports weapons such as .177 air pistol. It only requires certificate of being a renowned shooter.” He added that people like Bedi import such weapons illegally and sell it to sports shooters only and these weapons are not used in crime.
 
 Former secretary general of the Punjab Rifle Shooting Association Raja Sidhu said that National Rifle Shooting Association issues the certificate of renowned shooter on the basis of which customs duty is exempted on import of weapons. “By illegally importing a weapon on renowned shooter’s name these agents earn at least Rs 40,000-50,000,” said Sidhu.
 
 
 
 
 In charge of Gurugram police arms license branch Inspector  , sub-inspector Virender Singh and constable Mahesh Kumar. Gurugram based mastermind Manish Bhardwaj, his accomplices Mohan Lal and Shanikant, Mathura residents Gaurav Kumar and Sonu Sharma.
 
 
 
 Gurugram inspector Jasmer’s brother Ved Prakash, illegal arms’ makers and residents of Khurja in Bulandshahar (UP) Rehman and Kurban, Gurugram resident Mohan Lal's son Yogesh, Bulandshahar resident Azhar and Modi Nagar resident Naveen.
 
