ROURKELA: The foundation stone of much-awaited second Brahmani bridge is all set to be laid at Balughat of Rourkela on July 21 by Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin   in the presence of other dignitaries, informed senior   leader and Rourkela MLA Dilip Ray while interacting with the media here on Saturday. 

 The officials of National Highways Authority of India have also confirmed the development.
 
 With demand from various quarters growing shriller for the second bridge in last five years, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced construction of the bridge soon during his speech at Rourkela in April 2015. 
 
 But due to one reason or the other, the construction of the Brahmani bridge has been delayed, sparking resentment among people. Ray raised his voice against the inordinate delay and even boycotted various party programmes on this grounds, causing embarrassment to his party BJP. 
 
 Chief minister  , in a letter to Gadkari in May, had raised his concern over the delay in construction and urged him to start the work without any further delay. In his response, Gadkari had intimated that the foundation stone of the bridge will be laid in the third week of June, which, however, was not done due to delay in tender opening.
 
 After several hiccups, the deck is now cleared for laying the foundation stone at Bhalughat in the presence of Sundargarh MP and Union tribal affairs minister Jual Oram and petroleum minister  , said Ray. 
 
 The NHAI authorities have also requested Naveen to remain present on this occasion, Ray added. The bridge from Balughat to TCI square would be constructed at a cost of Rs 565 crore, Ray informed. The bridge would be part of six-lane national highway from Rajamunda to Biramitrapur.
 
 Jual also confirmed about the preparation going on for foundation stone laying and said the final confirmation would be released from the office of Union road transport minister on Monday. 
 
 "We have received direction from our Delhi office to make necessary preparations for organising the foundation stone laying programme of the bridge," said a senior official of NHAI, requesting anonymity.
 
