Nagpur: “A penny saved is a penny earned” is an adage. Adopting similar strategy, India can improve its infrastructure, generate more employment and invest in research to make its economy strong. This was the message delivered by a keynote speaker at the ‘Mission use of indigenous goods in day-to-day life’, organized by Jyeshtha Nagrik Mandal at   in   on Wednesday.

 “China has made rapid economic progress by adopting the strategy of mass production and mass consumption. The country buys raw material from all over the world and exports finished products earning huge profit and generating employment within the country. This has helped China make great strides on all fronts,” said Amol Pusadkar, manager at   and convener of   on Wednesday.
 
 Pusadkar said, “The basic reason behind China’s low cost products is low capital investment coupled with export-oriented strategies of the government there”. “The Chinese government has made economic development as their first priority due to which their exports are much higher than imports. Whereas, India has about 52.8% trade deficit due to reliance on imports rather than increasing exports,” he said.
 
 Elaborating on the issue, Pusadkar said, “If the people of our country choose to use Indian products, it will certainly benefit the country as the precious foreign exchange will remain in the country apart from generating more employment opportunities.” However, to provide a boost to production of goods within the country and increase exports, there is need to improve infrastructure, he said.
 
 “The profits earned from exports can be used in research and infrastructure development. Therefore, people should use Indian products more,” Pusadkar said.
 
 “Since 1962, China has taken over 38,800 sq km of Indian land and still continues to stake claim on other areas,” he said. “On the other hand, Chinese food products also pose health hazards as they are not healthy,” he said adding Indians should shun them and adopt Indian products. “This will help revive our small scale industries, which are facing severe competition from the imported Chinese goods,” Pusadkar said.
 
 “Using better means of communication today, we should spread awareness among the Indian masses for saying “No” to Chinese products, said Srikrishna Phatak, president of Jyeshtha Nagrik Mandal.
 
