HYDERABAD: With opportunities in the multi-billion defence industry opening up, the Telangana government is mulling setting up a defence incubator on the lines of the T-Hub to encourage industry as well as entrepreneurs to innovate in this sector.

 “We have started making plans for the defence incubator. We have a lot of defence labs here but in today's world we need to go the extra mile to work on innovation. While the industry and research labs are doing a lot of work, we feel that the convergence of ideas on a common platform will augur well for the industry,“ IT, industries & commerce and municipal administration & urban development minister, KT Rama Rao, said while delivering the keynote address at a seminar on `indigenization of military avionics' organised by the   along with industry associations here.
 
  said that the idea was mooted when the then defence minister Manohar Parrikar had visited T-Hub as part of his city tour last year.
 
 Talking about the strengths of the city in this sector, he pointed out that Hyderabad is home to many central research institutions such as   (DRDL) and Research Center Imarat (RCI) that do cutting edge research and also houses many players big (such as TASL, Lockheed Martin, Boeing) and small (such as Zen Technologies, VEM Technologies).
 
 Hyderabad also boasts of aerospace parks and five airstrips and given the advantages that the city enjoys in terms of the ecosystem, the minister urged the industry to step up its investments in the defence industry here.
 
 Meanwhile, Dr G Satheesh Reddy, scientific advisor to  , urged the stakeholders from the industry as well as research institutions to set up a task for ce and identify the parts that the industry currently imports but can be manufactured in India in a cost effective manner.
 
 Apart from import substitution, the industry must also work towards building capabilities in newer technologies. “We cannot continuously remain technology followers and need to work on futuristic technologies,“ he said, rooting for a better collaboration between research institutes as well as industry.
 
