COIMBATORE: After a month’s delay, the state government has taken steps to conduct the elephant rejuvenation camp in Thekkampatti near Mettupalayam.

 The camp- a brain child of Jayalalithaa will usually be conducted in the month of January every year. However, this year, since the preparations were put on hold for a while, it is likely to be held in the first week of February.
 
 The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment (HR&CE) department has started the ground work for the camp at Thekkampatti on Friday. Temporary sheds for mahouts and Kavadi were setup in the camp. Also makeshift sheds for kitchen, foods and medicines for the temple and mutt elephants have been formed.
 
 In order to prevent entry of wild elephants, the department has installed solar fence around the camp. A shed was setup for veterinary doctors, who will monitor the elephants’ health conditions. Further, CCTVs will be fixed around the camps to monitor the movement of wild animals and prevent the entry of unidentified persons inside the camp.
 
 “As per the government’s instruction, we started the work immediately at Thekkampatti. The entire work will be completed within two to three days,” A Ilambarithi, HR&CE joint commissioner said.
 
 According to sources, the HR&CE department has instructed temples and mutts to bring their elephants to the rejuvenation camp. Two years ago, elephants attached to the forest department also participated in the camp at Nellithurai near Mettupalayam. However this time, the government has planned to conduct the rejuvenation camp for the forest department elephants at the respective camps at Chadivayal, Kozhikamuthi near Topslip in Coimbatore district and Mudhumalai in Nilgiris district. Kumki elephants and elephants used for safari will be given rest for 48 days after the camp starts. 
 
 The state government usually allots more than Rs 1 crore for the camp. The first camp was held at Mudhumalai in 2003 and it was inaugurated by the former Chief Minister  . But, during the DMK regime (2006 -2011), the camp was not conducted. Again, the camp was shifted to Thekkampatti near Mettupalayam in 2013. 
 
