First meeting | Senators, deans to draw plan B for the scenario where   don’t match pay hike

 Chandigarh: The new   of   will discuss the institution’s financial crisis in its first meeting here on Tuesday.
 
 It will study the   and   verdicts, Human Resource Development Ministry letters to the   ( ) secretary and the  , and minutes of last year’s meeting of the university’s board of finance. 
 
 The discussion items include the possibilities of boosting the PU’s income and reducing its expenditure in the revised budget, so that the university can manage with finite resources. “If the pay scales are revised, the expenses will rise substantially. If the Centre fulfils the need, there will be no problem, but if the grants don’t match the revised pay, the PU must be ready with a plan,” a source in the university said. “Since the projected deficit is Rs 10 crore, this year should not be a problem, financially. But the members will find a long-term solution.”
 
 The think tank includes the dean of university instructions, director of IQAC (Internal Quality Assurance Cell), members of the senate and the syndicate, and some members of the faculty. Its brief is to get the PU out of a financial crisis. The HRD Ministry has increased the grant to Rs 207 crore this session, and Punjab has raised its contribution to Rs 33 crore, but a long-term solution is still far.
 
 One of the ministry’s letters to the UGC secretary will be tabled in the think tank meeting. The ministry wrote that the PU accounts shall be open to inspection by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) as well as the ministry’s principal accounts office. The ministry has asked the UGC to study the accounts for the last not one but three years.
 
 What the ministry wrote to the Punjab government will also be discussed in the Tuesday meeting. This letter makes it clear to Punjab that the PU expenses other than salary will be met out of internal revenue and state grants based on 1:1:1 contribution formula and previous deficits. Punjab was asked to enhance its contribution.
 
 The think tank will look at the background of the crisis and minutes of the last meeting of the board of finance. Even though not on the agenda, the status of world-class institution will also be discussed, since the university is going to pitch for it.   Meenakshi Malhotra, former DUI A K Bhandari , and IQAC director  , besides senators Navdeep Goyal,  , Shelly Walia, Subhash Sharma, Keshav Malhotra, Raunki Ram will have their task cut out when they assemble on Tuesday. 
 
 
