Just over a month ago, Cyclone Vardah left the city in a shambles.   in Mylapore, was in a disarray, with uprooted trees and branches marring its serenity. But last Sunday, those fallen tree spots came alive with art. The second edition of  , a concept inspired from Chitra Santhe, which happens every year in Bengaluru, saw over 50 artists showcasing their work to the public. From youngsters, newbies to established artists, this edition saw several people coming together for the love of art. While some of them showcased a mix of portraits, landscapes and doodles, there were a few others who caught one’s attention with interesting themes. Artist Jothi’s work was one of them — he had done a series on MS Subbulakshmi. He said, “I had done this series for her centenary year. She’s an icon and it was a pleasure working on her portraits. It has a mix of her childhood portraits, performance sketches and with her husband. I had done this for a gallery first, but the reception here has been fantastic.”

 Art tutor and artist Prem Nazir’s works, called, Reversespective, was an interesting concept. “I took this idea from internet and began working on a series. It is somewhat similar to ‘perspective’ in art, but with a twist. When you see a painting, you can get only a front view. But this technique gives the painting more depth and one can see it in various directions, too.” 
 
 We also spotted chalk sculptures by artist  , who had done miniature sculpture of gods and goddesses using chalk. Even calamities like Cyclone Vardah and the Chennai floods found their way to the canvas.   says, “We went to so many spots during the Chennai floods. I found this image that appeared on a newspaper interesting. So, I immediately sat down to paint.”
 
 And there were novice artists, too, who showcased their work. For software engineer  , doodling is a hobby. Exhibiting her work in a forum like this has only instilled confidence. She says, “I don’t have a college education in arts; neither do I have any contacts in the art industry to showcase my works. So, a forum like this gives me an opportunity to showcase my works. You get varied interactions, starting from the normal public to art connoisseurs, who inquire about our work.”
 
 
 For Karaikudi-based   Selvan, sketching bulls is a passion of sorts. “I grew up near Madurai, in the   region. I am a fine-arts student, who began by showcasing a series on windows. Having grown up in a village, the windows in each house fascinated me. But later, I took interest in sketching my own pet bull. I followed it up with a series on the life of these village people, who own the bulls. They treat it like their pet animal. The details on the painting are of the owners leading everyday lives with the bulls at home,” says Pandi Selvan. While he liked the concept of bringing the gallery to the park, Pandi also shares his thoughts on the kind of people who come to view these works. “A series like this might not interest a common man. Only those who are passionate about this, would be interested to see or buy. Gallery gives you the option of filtering the kind of audience who comes to view your work.”
  
 
 It was a first for 13-year-old Mukilan Shankar, who had come all the way from Madurai for this show. “I have been learning to draw and sketch for quite some time now. I have never gotten a chance to showcase my talent, though. A show like this gave me an opportunity to not just showcase, but also interact with established artists. I got feedback from many seniors on how can I improve,” he said.
 
  
