

 A handful of male beauty bloggers and vloggers, armed with brushes, foundation, liners and bronzers, are challenging the gender norms of the  . From pinpointing the ideal matte nude lip shade to defining their brows au naturel, these ‘beauty boys’ are tapping a growing demand for   in India. 
 
 Jason Arland, a Nagpur-based makeup artist, is 22 and his Instagram profile reads: “Yes I am a boy and I wear Makeup & I f**kin’ love it & I carry it so well (sic).” Arland, with his signature black lips and “emo style” started doing makeup at the age of 12 and runs campaigns on social media and across metro cities advocating gender fluidity in makeup and fashion, using hashtags like ‘brown boys problem’. His videos feature makeup tutorials for college boys and all-natural makeup for men. “I do not preach that everyone should wear makeup but those who do should not be judged,” says Arland.
 
 This shift comes at a time when gender fluidity is picking up steam, particularly among millennials. And far from judging its new customers, the cosmetics industry is racing to catch up with the new trend. MAC Cosmetics launched a genderless makeup line earlier this year, and now Clinique and Tom Ford have joined its ranks with concealers and bronzers that can be used by both men and women. And even NYX   India Face Awards 2017, are giving boys a platform to showcase their work. 
 
  
  
 
 
 They aren’t as popular as their Western counterparts like Patrick Star and James Charles, who have over two million YouTube subscribers, but they do have loyal supporters — both male and female — who want to experiment with their looks. Bengaluru-based engineer and self-confessed makeup fanatic, Isha, 24, gives credit to YouTube makeup videos for learning everything from the basics of cat eye to her choice of concealer. “I really enjoy watching (American vlogger) Jefree Star’s videos. He is entertaining and genuine at the same time. If a product is trash, it’s trash. He features both drug-store and high-end makeup.”
 
 With his shock of ombre hair and rugged Coachella vibe, you wouldn’t think Dhanush Singh Sirohi comes from a small town in UP. The 22-year-old blogger hails from Hasanpur and is currently studying fashion at the  , Mumbai. Sirohi says he never steps out without a dab of concealer and tinted moisturiser. “I love nude lipsticks from MAC and my day cannot start without a Kat Von D foundation,” he says. “A lot of men are genuinely interested in makeup,” he adds, but don’t know which products to use or how to apply them. 
 
 Attitudes to male fashion bloggers range from genuine curiosity to trolling. Yohan, a Delhi-based vlogger with 8,000 views on his YouTube channel, has received both bouquets and brickbats in the comments section. One social media user goes: “It was really nice and inspiring since I have the same skin colour as you and what you did really suited my everyday school look.” But there are those who post sneering comments like, “Are you sure you are a guy? This is not what men do!”
 
 Bengaluru-based makeup artist and rising Instagram star Zeeshan Ali shrugs off the criticism. “If women can shave their faces then why can’t men wear makeup? Why this huge fuss about gender?” asks Ali, a former medical student, who left medicine to purse his passion for makeup. 
 
 “I enjoy the process of getting ready, putting costume and makeup on,” says Ali who has more than 1,500 followers on Instagram and is popular for his drag queen-style makeup.
 
 Sometimes even their peers are less than supportive. Celebrity makeup artist Mickey Contractor has mixed feelings about men using makeup. “At the most they can use a concealer for under-eye circles but going full throttle is not my cup of tea. Grooming is important but men should be men,” says Contractor. 
 
 
 
 
 
  Apart from his music, the rock star’s iconic Ziggy Stardust look with lightning bolt makeup is what made him immortal 
 
 The British comic made guy-liner iconic
 
  Mr Jack Sparrow wears subtle liner and nail paint on the red carpet
 
  The superstar paved the way for foundation and concealer
 
  The former British PM’s makeup routine was revealed after an aide left the documents in a taxi
 
