Four points and a bonus. Former coach Nicolai Adam was clear what he wanted to achieve with the Indian team at the   U-17 World Cup, and for a good part, believed the hosts can surprise the world on debut.
 
  The German coach showed single-minded focus and swept aside anything that he believed would come in between him and those four points that would fetch him a bonus. A few disruptive players were shown the door; some who didn’t fit into his idea of a competitive squad were asked to pack their bags. Even the support staff was not spared.
  
  That Nicolai tasted little success with this team — before he was forced to quit — is an altogether different tale. India played three tournaments at home — the AIFF Youth Cup, AFC U-16 Championship and BRICS Cup – and didn’t win a single competitive game on home soil. Of course, the team was making progress. A 3-3 draw against former world champions Saudi Arabia, for example, was an encouraging result, but with every passing game it became clear that the gulf in standards between the boys and the rest was just too much to bridge.
  
  “If anyone thinks this team can compete at the highest level, just because they have been training together for two years, they are mistaken,” current coach Luis Norton de Matos admitted, speaking exclusively to TOI last week in Goa.
  
  The former Portuguese striker has spent only seven months with the squad. He has changed several players, brought in some who were unwanted by the previous regime and, to be fair, has tasted more success than his predecessor.
  
  Last month, India held Chile 1-1 in a four-nation tournament despite being reduced to 10 men towards the closing stages of the match. The result, the Portuguese coach said, showed India could compete against the best in business, never mind the fact that Chile opted to field a second-string side.
  
  “We’ve done well in friendlies across Europe and South America but these are just friendly matches. There are no points, there is no pressure,” said Matos, pointing to encouraging results against Serbia, Chile, Macedonia, Benfica and Sporting Lisbon in  .
  
  With just nine days left for the opening clash against the US, where does India stand? Is it still four points – and the supposed bonus for any coach – that’s the target?
  
  “It is difficult of course but my pressure is to prove that Indian   players can play alongside the teams of the highest level. In football there are no impossibilities and we will enter the field like lions to try and win the game. We are aiming for victory in every game. They know their responsibility,” said de Matos, without really stating either his or the team’s goal. Suffice to say, in a group that has US, Colombia and former world champions Ghana, a dose of realism is the need of the hour.
  
  “Colombia,” de Matos said, “will be the strongest side physically and we lost to them 0-3, despite playing against a comparatively weaker side. US won 4-0 against India in the AIFF Youth Cup last year and they didn’t field three of their most exciting players, including Josh Sargent and Tim Weah, who have been snapped up by Werder Bremen and PSG respectively. Weah harks to a known pedigree being Liberian great George Weah’s son, while Sargent opened eyes at the U-20 World Cup this year with four goals and an assist, and he will lead the US U-17s in India.
  
  “Our big problem is experience. Players in Europe and elsewhere have competitive match experience from the age of six and will be here with 10 years of playing at a high level. I know that this team is the strongest that India has had at any level. They have a good future,” said de Matos.
  
  The problem is, everyone is focused on the present.
