PUNE: The civic administration appears to have   in taking part in ‘foreign study tours’, contrary to its stance when it was in the opposition. 

 In fact, mayor   has already been abroad at a time when Pune is being assailed by the stench from the ongoing garbage issue. 
 
 Previous mayors and other office-bearers of the   had visited countries like the USA, Germany, Iran, Israel, South Korea, Japan, Singapore and China, and the BJP had earlier questioned such tours. The opposition to such tours appears to have been forgotten now that the party is in power. 
 
 Even Pune guardian minister drew flak for being away on tour during the garbage crisis.
 
 “The Union government had selected me for the tour,” the mayor said. “It was on encouraging women’s participation in the politics. There was no financial burden on the PMC,” she said, adding that she interacted with women leaders from other, developed countries [like Canada]. All those countries follow a three-tier system of government, like India.
 
 “We swapped notes on good governance practices,” Tilak said. “Some of those countries’ projects are worth replicating in Pune. A tour report will be submitted to the Centre,” she further said.
 
 Tilak defended such tours, stating they had proved beneficial in t. She took the example of a developing a Japanese garden, taking cue from one such tour.
 
 It wasn’t just the privilege of the mayor to go on such tours. Standing committee chairpersons, leaders of the opposition and other party leaders too were part of such tours. They were accompanied by civic officials. 
 
 Civic activists have repeatedly opposed such tours, arguing that not a single corporator who has gone on a trip has ever submitted a proper study tour report.
 
 “Study reports were submitted to the civic body till a few years ago. After repeated objections by activists, the practice to submit reports started, but even that is a mere formality now,” said  , the founder of the citizens’ group Surajya Sangharsha Samittee. 
 
 More often than not, Kumbhar said, the reports are little more than a compilation of tour details. A few re[ports even had details of the lifestyle in the other countries, which add no value to the growth of the civic body, or development of the city. 
 
