THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a major boost for the development of Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology ( ), the Union government has sanctioned Rs 230 crore to the institute from the   (PMSSY). 

 "The fund will be utilized for constructing a new super-specialty block at the institute. While the Union ministry of health and family welfare will provide Rs 120 crore, the remaining amount will be given by the department of science and technology (DST) under the nodal ministry for SCTIMST, the Union ministry of science, technology and earth sciences,'' said Dr  , director of the institute. 
 
 The outpatient and inpatient attendance have surged over the years and an additional 16,000 patients were registered in 2016 alone. The annual outpatient attendance is 1,80,000 and IP admission of around 15,000 per year, though there are only 253 beds at present. The number of sub-specialty OPs and interventions has also been increased. 
 
 Availability of land was the first hurdle to be crossed, with hardly any spare land in its possession. The initial efforts of the institute in 2012-13 to build this facility from its own income and grant-in aid from the government did not take off though a foundation stone for a new block was laid. 
 
 In 2015, the new administration had planned to develop the institute in two phases. 
 
 The new proposal, approved by the governing body of the institute chaired by K M Chandrasekhar, was submitted in September 2016 for   to the Centre, said Kishore.
 
 An additional 170 beds, including new ICUs, step down ICU, super-specialty pay wards, general super-specialty wards, new OPs, new cath labs and emergency service areas, will be added under the super-specialty block. 
 
 There will be an additional manpower requirement of 923 staff for the new facility. The institute aims to generate an additional Rs 100 crore from other sources to meet the entire equipment requirement for thefacility, which may exceed the sanctioned funds. The work is expected to be completed in 30 months, she said.
 
