KOCHI: When the two legendary clubs in the country,   and   are demanding an increase the number of foreign players in an I-league team, a foreigner from Singapore is trying hard to form an I-league club with local players in Kerala. Jiry Cery, the chairman of  , a club which is set to be launched on Tuesday says that he would like to form a club with footballers from Kerala "Kerala have so much of talent. We will recruit foreign players into the team only if we fail to find enough player of the required quality within the state," said Cery. The team has been registered with   and is set for an official launch on Tuesday at Thiruvananthapuram.

 The club is a joint initiative of Bangalore-based company Liwing and Singapore's MySport Pte. Ltd. Cery said that they will be bringing professional coaches from Europe and will be starting a grassroots programme in November. "We will be conducting scouting programmes all over the state to find young talents. But for now the focus is to get the team into the I-league," said Cery who was the managing director of   in Singapore. He also said that the team will be looking to enter I-league through corporate bidding. "The team will have an annual budget of Rs 20 crore which could be way higher than the present standards of Indian football," he added.
 
 AIIF general secretary   had earlier confirmed that two teams from Kerala have shown interest to join I-league through corporate bidding.
 
 Though Cery said that they are planning to base the team at state capital Thiruvananthapuram with the newly-built   as their homeground, it seems not to be an easy job for the team management. The owners of the stadium KSFL has an MoU with   (KCA) which runs till 2027. According to the agreement, the KCA can use the stadium for 180 days a year from April 1-May 30 and from October 1-January 31 and this period could clash with I-league fixtures which start in November. "We have a secondary option in north Kerala (Kozhikode). But for the moment, we are not considering those options and we hope we could play our home games at Thiruvananthapuram itself," said Cery. If that happens, then Kerala Evergreen FC will be the first I-league club from the state capital. 
 
 
