Nagpur: Beware traffic violators! If there is a pending traffic e-challan against you, pay up fast or you may have to appear in court. The Nagpur traffic police have decided to approach the Motor Vehicle Court against such defaulters. To begin with, the traffic police have shortlisted 1,259 violators who have refused to accept e-challans. In the past nine months, the Nagpur police issued over two lakh e-challans. Many e-challans remain unpaid due to various reasons, and the police have now decided to launch a special drive to ensure such traffic violators fall in line. Confirming the news, deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Ravindrasinh Pardeshi told TOI that as per rules one must pay the fine within a fortnight of receive the challan, failing which a charge sheet will be filed in court against such violators. The traffic police have started sending court summons to 1,259 violators (those who refused to accept e-challans), who will now be called to the court to face charges and pay the penalty. According to the traffic police data, these 1,259 violators refused to even accept the e-challans over the past nine months. This data of refusal was prepared after India Post — the government agency entrusted to deliver the e-challans to violators — reported outright refusal of e-challans by the offenders.  The data says most of the violators who have refused to accept e-challans were those booked for not wearing helmets while riding a two-wheeler. The maximum number of violators were from chamber 3 (344), followed by chamber 5 (319) and chamber 2 (311). Sources said the reasons for not paying the fine are many. Many refusals pertain to e-challans issued to persons who own the vehicle, but the traffic rules were violated by someone else driving the vehicle. Even on Monday, TOI saw a man visit the DCP (traffic) office in Civil Lines to raise the issue of an e-challan for his vehicle, which he had sold years back. This, police sources said, could be because the ownership of the vehicle may have changed hands without the transfer of the vehicle on RTO records. In many cases, ownership may have changed, but the RTO is yet to update its data, sources said. However, officers claims that ‘minor errors’ have taken place as the e-challan system is in the nascent stage, and there are several limitations in the database involved. One of the reasons cited is that motorists have sold their vehicles but not transferred ownership. “We have decided to focus on those refusing to accept e-challans. In a fortnight, we will start issuing notices to offenders. If they do not respond in a week, we will file a charge sheet in Motor Vehicles Court,” the DCP said. Senior PI (traffic) Jayash Bhandarkar, who is also in-charge of assistant commissioner’s police (traffic), said the police have also initiated a dialogue with the judiciary about filing charge sheets against traffic offenders who have not paid their fines even after receiving notices.