ALLAHABAD: Classes and examinations at   were suspended for the day after former student leader   was arrested by   police, on Wednesday, for allegedly beating up an leader of a faction of the employees' union, Santosh Sahay. 

 A faction of the AU Employees Union Sanyunkt Morcha, headed by Sahay, had been staging demonstrations at the university campus along with the AU student union, demanding the resignation of the vice-chancellor Prof RL Hangloo. 
 
 As per police reports, the accused had threatened Sahay to withdraw the strike. On his refusal, Rana and his aides attacked Sahay. "I was with my friend Ajay Pandey at his house, when Rana called me and told me he wanted to meet. I told him to come to my friend's house. When they reached there, Rana and his associates started threatening me, asking me to withdraw the strike as the vice-chancellor had been performing well," said Sahay. 
 
 An FIR has been lodged against Rana and four others at the George Town police station under section 147 and 323 of Indian Penal Code. Sahay said some AU employees had approached the university registrar with an application to register an FIR against Rana, Hangloo and others, however, the registrar declined their request. "We then went to George Town police station and submitted our application," he added. 
 
 Following Rana's arrest, classes and mid-semester examinations scheduled for Wednesday were suspended and all departments stopped functioning. A faction of the employees' union had been observing token strikes from February 28 onwards, demanding several changes in the remuneration rules. The front last observed a token strike for two hours on Tuesday, after which the university functioned normally. 
 
 After the attack on Sahay, the two factions of the employees' union have decided to join forces and would demonstrate along with the student union. "The fight for freeing the campus from the clutches of AU VC, Prof Ratan Lal Hangloo, would now be led by AUSU president   who has the support of all the employees of AU," said  , the president of the AU employees' union. 
 
 
