VISAKHAPATNAM: Panic spread after fire broke out in My Cure Hospital premises at   on Saturday morning around 10.30 am. The fire raged for more than an hour before the hospital staff and fire fighters managed to douse the flames. There were no injuries reported in the incident.

 Former energy secretary  , who lives just a few feet away from the spot, said, “I tried contacting the police and the fire department, but they did not respond to the calls initially. The fire broke out in the basement of one of the buildings which was luckily not being used for hospital purposes due to an ongoing court case. There was a lot of trash and also  .”
 
 Sarma said the particular building was constructed illegally and the top two floors were built without permission. Other residents of the locality also complained that the hospital management was not carrying out proper waste disposal and that some of it was being dumped in the slum behind the hospital.
 
 Criticising the lack of response from the police and fire department,  , who lives opposite the hospital, said, “The fire could have spread at an alarming rate. There was just one policeman helplessly watching the blaze while the fire fighters arrived almost 30 minutes after the outbreak even though their depot is barely 400 meters away.”
 
 Later in the day, the hospital management issued an official release that said, “A minor fire mishap has occurred at My Cure Hospital in   today (25th March 2017) at 10.30 am. The hospital has two buildings out of which only one building is operational. The fire started due to a spark in the diesel general room which is in the non-functional building. The fire got little aggravated due to the debris around the room. Keeping the safety of the patients in the mind, the OP which is close to the building was evacuated. The hospital staff that was trained to handle such crisis efficiently has put off 90 per cent the fire using fire extinguishers by the time fire tender reached the spot. Later, fire fighters were engaged to put off the flames. No casualty is reported and the building has all the fire fighting equipment.” 
 
