PUNE:   has spent the past week preparing for   --the sweet treats are now ready and a   sits pretty in the wardrobe. Now, she is looking forwards to enjoy the day with friends, family and neighbours.

 Celebrations, of multiple hues across different communities, will ring in Makar Sankranti, a festival that not only heralds the harvest season in Maharashtra, but also marks the transition of the sun into the   (Capricorn). The day is regarded as the beginning of an auspicious phase in Indian culture, known as the `holy phase of transition'.
 
 Different communities in the city will celebrate the day in unique ways. Maharashtrians will celebrate it with greetings of `Tilgul ghya, goad goad bola' and kite flying, while Tamil families will observe Pongal with kolam decorations outside their homes and a special sweet named after the festival itself.Magh or Bhogali Bihu will be celebrated among the Assamese, who dedicate the festival to Agni, or the Lord of Fire.
 
 Across homes, sweets made using jaggery , sesame and groundnut will dominate food platters, typical for the winter season and designed to help the body cope with the harsh cold.
 
 Men and women usually wear black-coloured clothes on this day , which is of particular significance not just for the newborn in the family , but also married women, who indulge in much socializing and the exchange of `haldi-kunku', sugad (small earthen-pots filled with strands of wheat, chickpeas, jaggery , sugar cane pieces, `ber' and til gul laddoos) with other women, besides distributing vaan (small utility gifts). Special `bor-nhan' ceremonies are also organized for young children, who are symbolically showered with a mixture of puffed rice, sweets and ber on this day.
 
 Describing usual celebrations in her family, Sus Road resident of Chitra Kulkarni said, “Haldi kunku is the most important ceremony of the festival for married women. We invite friends and family home and exchange treats and gifts. This year, I will be celebrating the day at my in-laws place where swe ets like tilgul (sweets made of jaggery , sesame seeds and groundnut) and gud poli are being prepared, besides some snacks.It's a daylong celebration and a traditional excuse for people to meet.“
 
 Across homes, fun haldikunku sessions will be organi zed until Rat hasaptami during which women exchange scented flowers and gifts like coconut, sugar or any other utility item with other married women and take their blessings.
 
 Kite-flying remains the most popular activity among kids. The sessions are expected to get a boost with the festival coming on a weekend this year.
 
 Describing their plans for the day, Anshula Madan, a resident of Vimannagar, said, “My eight-year old is very excited about flying kites with his father. They have already bought quite a few of them. Some activities are planned in our residential area too, so I am sure it's going to be a fun-filled Saturday .“
 
 Meanwhile, the Assamese community organization in Pune Asomi will celebrating Magh Bihu on Saturday at Pashan. Magh Bihu, also called Bhogali Bihu, is a harvest festival celebrated on Makar Sankrant. Members of the Assamese community plan to celebrate with a feast and bonfire, just as the tradition holds back home.
 
