KOCHI: The rising   in the state shows that an extremely   is on the anvil.   said that temperatures have shot up by 2-3 degrees in many places.

 According to the  , many districts in the state witnessed variations in temperature from November itself.
 
 “Both the monsoons have failed leaving the land dry. If one were to look at the temperature anomalies in the last week alone, it shows a difference of 2-4 degrees,“ said M R Ramesh Kumar, senior atmospheric scientist at National Institute of Oceanography.
 
 He said that there could be several reasons for this difference because anomalies indicate a longterm change and not an immediate overnight change. “Kerala has not had a good monsoon last year. So the land is dry which means that the temperatures will shoot up.“
 
 There will be an increase in the ultra-violet radiation hitting the earth but it won't be alarming as is seen in the Arctic or Antarctic, said K Mohan Kumar, Director, ST Radar project, Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat). He said that a good rain for a couple of days can cool down the atmosphere.
 
 “Already, in many parts, there are cloudy skies, at least in the last couple of days.“ On Monday, the maximum highest temperature recorded in the state was at Vellanikkara (37.9 degrees) while the lowest was 31.1 degrees recorded at Thiruvananthapuram.
 
 The highest minimum temperature was at 24.2 degrees at Kozhikode while the lowest minimum temperature recorded was at 20.5 degrees in Punalur.
 
 “Temperatures will rise when there is dryness in the air. We are a state that had huge number of wells and ponds. We have lost these resources,“ said climate change expert C K Rajan. He said that in the past 15 years, there has been a huge variation in the climate.
 
 “If one were to look at the monsoon behaviour, monsoon followed a set pattern, beginning in June and getting intense in July. In August and September, there were just small phases of rain. But that has changed. Now, we almost never get a good start in June. In July also, there's not much rain. The intensity increases in August and September. This affects our agriculture calendar too which was based on the rainfall pattern. It is time we even changed our agricultural calendar,“ he said.
 
