BHOPAL: Students from class 9 to 12 of all   across Madhya Pradesh will have identical uniform from the coming  . The state government has roped in   to design the uniform. 

 Speaking to TOI,  , school education, Deepti Mukherji Gaur, confirmed the move, saying the department is presently in process of completing the formalities. "The idea is to create an identity of government school students and for this we have decided to start with students from class 9 to 12. We have asked Mrignayani to work out colour and design, which will be permanent and identical throughout the state schools," she added.
 
 State government has been mulling to have identical uniforms in all its schools across the state. The proposal includes students from class 1 to 8, but the final decision is yet to be taken on it. However, at present, the department has gone ahead with the plan to have identical uniforms for students from class 9 to12. A review meeting has already taken place and the department is ready to announce it among schools.
 
 Gaur said if the proposal gets the green signal for all schools including primary, upper primary and middle (class 1 to 8) from the committee, then they would need the budget for it, as the department will have to distribute uniform free of cost among students from class 1 to 8. However, in case of higher secondary students, they will have to buy their uniform, which would be made available at different outlets in the market. "For class 1- 8, the decision is yet to be taken and the department would need huge budget for facilitating the same," she added.
 
 As per the new proposal, colour, design and logo of school dress will be the same in about 91,000 government higher secondary schools with more than 20 lakh students in the state. According to reliable sources, a budgetary provision of Rs 500 crore is estimated if uniform dress code for class 1 to 8 gets the nod from the state government. For this, uniform for over 79 lakh students will be made through self-help groups.
 
