AHMEDABAD: On Sunday, 1,510  , born in the years 2015 and 2016, will be given Rs 2 lakh   at an event organized at  . All girl children receiving bonds are from families with more than one girl child. Earlier, similar events were held on May 8 and 12 at Surat and Rajkot where 1,000 and 1,520 girls, respectively, were gifted with the bonds.

 Gagji Sutariya, president of Sardardham, said that with this initiative they have completed the target of providing the bonds to 10,000 families having more than one girl child. 
 
 “The highlight of the event would be its entire operation and management by women and girls of the community with them at forefront,” said Sutariya.
 
 “Over 1,200 volunteers have taken up the responsibility for the same. While dignitaries including deputy chief minister Nitinbhai Patel would sit with the audience, their wives would be on the stage,” he said.
 
 The initiative was taken up last year, as celebration of 10 years of Maha Ladu event in Surat where businessman Lavji Badshah announced the bonds. 
 
 Under the scheme, a necessary amount would be deposited in a nationalized bank account. When the beneficiary girl attains the age of 21 years, she will get Rs 2 lakh which can be used for her education. The 2006 Maha Ladu event was organized after the sex ratio dropped to 835 in the Patidar community, said organizers.
 
 
 
 
 Lavjibhai Daliya, better known as Badshah, has been involved in philanthropy for several years and has been pivotal in setting up ‘Badshah Sukanya Bonds’ scheme. On Saturday, he said that the activity is a sort of penance for years of wrongdoing.
 
 “Today, youths of 35 years of age are finding it difficult to find a suitable match. We misused the technology for sex determination and did not give a chance to the girl child, due to which the community has a skewed sex ratio,” Daliya told TOI. “In the past decade, we have seen a lot of awareness over the issue, but there is a long way to go,” he said.
 
 Daliya said that he considers the initiative to support girl children the best act of his life. “There are innumerable memories attached to the cause.” 
 
 “I met families with more than one girl, and for them learning that we had initiated our pledge in 2006 to treat girls at par with boys, changed things. More than money, the initiative is about changing the mindset,” said Daliya.
 
 He added that the movement has inspired members of Ahir community to emulate it. Daliya plans to donate 35% of his budget for it. 
 
 PATIDARS TO HAVE OWN GLOBAL BIZ SUMMIT 
 
 When questioned about the other burning question of the community - fight for reservation - Patidar leaders said that there are three aspects of better life - good education, good health and good job opportunities. While with establishments of educational institutes and hospitals across the state, the first two issues have been addressed, they are focusing on creating opportunities for entrepreneurship and jobs.
 
 Talking to media, T G Zalavadia, CEO of Sardardham, said that   is organizing the Global Patidar Business Summit on the lines of VGGIS on January 5,6 and 7 in 2018 at Mahatma Mandir, Gandhinagar. 
 
 “It would have three purposes. First, to provide a platform to MSMEs from India and abroad to collaborate,” said Zalavadia. “Second, it will provide a meeting point for seasoned and successful businessmen to meet young and budding entrepreneurs,” he added.
 
 “Third, it will help set up an informal employment exchange for youths of the community and make them aware about government schemes and opportunities in various sectors,” he said.
 
