MUMBAI: The drought that had hit the state’s agrarian economy in 2015 continues to haunt its   industry. 

 Poor harvest due to reduced area under   cultivation during the drought year has led to a shutdown of sugar   within weeks of the start of the crushing season. Since sugarcane has an 18-month crop cycle, crop sown in early 2015 was ready for harvest in November 2016. 
 
 So far, 32 of 147 mills have shut the crushing operation. Experts say more than 50% of the mills will stop functioning by mid-February--45 days before the usual cycle that ends in March. Most mills are situated in the sugarcane belt of Western   and  . Most mills are facing a difficulty in functioning due to a dearth of the raw material —sugarcane. Maharashtra is one of the largest producers of sugar in the country.
 
 This situation has hit sugarcane farmers as factories are unable to pay their bills in accordance with fair remunerative price ( ) rules. This has further delayed farmers’ loan repayment plans.
 
 “According to the business model on which these cooperative mills run, they need to be operational for at least 160 days to break even this year. But not many industries will be able to run for that long this year,” said a senior official from the sugar mills association.
 
 Last year, a total of 178 factories were operational, this year 31 didn’t even start operations.
 
 The area under sugarcane cultivation shrank to 6.3 lakh hectares in 2015-16 due to the drought from close to 10.3 lakh hectare the year before. Not only did the area reduce, productivity was also affected.
 
 So far, 26.5 lakh metric tonnes of sugar has been produced; the quantity at the same time last year was 33.7 lakh metric tonnes. Officials said the reduction will impact sugar prices as the year advances. While there is sufficient stock for now, as production dips further, the demand-supply gap with widen.
 
 “Sugar mills are luring farmers to sell sugarcane by promising a higher price. Hopefully, they are able to pay what they promise,” said another official.
 
 Some mills have declared a price of Rs 2,850 per tonne of sugarcane to farmers—Rs 300 higher than the usual price. 
 
 The state’s sugar industry is going through a rough patch. It has accrued cumulative losses of Rs 2,500 crore over the past few years. The industry has asked the Central government to restructure term loans worth Rs 6,500 crore for 10 years—with a moratorium of three years and seven years for repayment.
 
 This year, sugar production is estimated at 445 lakh tonnes compared with 742 lakh tonnes last season.
 
