LUCKNOW: The first phase of UP elections in 15 districts of west UP will show the clear divide as all major parties -BJP, BSP, SP-Cong and RLD -are slogging in the region.

 Given its performance in   2014 polls, UP elections are crucial for the  . Riding on Modi-wave and changed dynamics in the wake of Muzaffarngar riots, the party had a clean sweep in the region in 2014 elections.
 
 At stake is fortune of 12 Lok Sabha members who cover 73 assembly constituencies that are going to polls in the first phase. In all, three Union ministers -Dr Mahesh Sharma, Gen VK Singh and Sanjeev Baliyan and one former Union minister Prof Ramshanker Katheria -will have to prove their prowess in their respective regions.
 
 The party's stake is highest also because not only would fortunes of prominent leaders get sealed, majority of the contentious issues barring Ram temple have direct are associated with this region. Issues in the BJP manifesto include closure of slaughterhouses, illegal and modern, constituion of anti-Romeo squad, triple talaq, Kairana exodus, sugarcane dues, etc. Almost all these issues have a direct connect with the voters of the region going to poll in the first phase.
 
 The party had already asked its MPs to ensure winning at least three Vidhan Sabha constituencies. Party insiders said ticket distribution during Lok Sabha election 2019 will take into consideration performance during assembly elections. Coming to the list of MPs, fortunes of Kairana MP Hukkum Singh, Satyapal Singh, Rajveer Singh `Raju Bhaiyya', Etah MP and son of Rajasthan governor Kalyan Singh and others would also be sealed in the EVMs on February 11, when polling is held for the first phase.
 
 Also at stake are fortunes of former UP BJP chief Laxmikant Bajpayi, whose supporters even see him as a potential chief minister and post-Muzaffarnagar riot pro-Hindutva faces of the party--Sardhana MLA Sangeet Singh Som and Thana Bhawan MLA Suresh Rana. Also at stake are fortunes of national secretary and media in charge Shrikant Sharma, who is trying his luck from Mathura.
 
 The sailing this time for the BJP is not as smooth as it was during 2014 elections. Jats switched loyalilty from their traditional party Rashtriya Lok Dal during Lok Sabha polls and so did Jatavs from the Bahujan Samaj Party . But the scenario has changed drastically since then. RLD is upbeat that it has managed to gain confidence of Jats while   is confident of winning over Dalit-Muslim combination this time. Wary of the fact, BJP sent Gorakhpur MP Yogi Adityanath to campaign here. Yogi's star appeal in the region is alo at stake. BJP won 11 seats in west UP in 2012 polss but it is eyeing over 50% of the 73 seats this time.
 
