COIMBATORE: The additional chief secretary to the state has issued a notice to all district collectors asking them to take steps to remove all   and commercial banners from the sides of state highways and centre medians, bus stops and traffic signals. Earlier, the district collectors had come under fire for allowing banners and hoardings on national highways. 

 In another landmark move against hoardings in the state, additional chief secretary Rajeev Ranjan has also urged district collectors to cancel permissions or no objection certificates given earlier for hoardings.
 
 The diktat is also applicable for advertising boards that have come up in signals, centre medians and bus stands as part of maintenance contracts. “Since maintenance or construction of attractive centre medians, traffic signals and modernised bus stands always faces funding issues, we prefer to enter into public private partnerships where we lease out the portion to contractors, who in turn can make a better use of their investments through advertisements,” said a collectorate official.
 
 “Now by refusing permission, we will incur huge financial losses,” another official pointed out.
 
 The order would affect all main highways such as Avinashi Road, Thadagam Road, Sathy Road and  . “People use these roads to enter the city and they often speed the vehicles. Hence, the courts insist on the removing hoardings and bill boards as they can be visual pollution and cause accidents,” said another collectorate official.
 
 Earlier this year, the national highways authority of India, Coimbatore, had written to the civic body and the district collectorate, asking them not to permit such hoardings or get into public private partnerships for maintenance of facilities, offering advertisement space as quid pro quo. However, it yielded no results. 
 
 “Unauthorized hoardings continue to come up across highways roads,” said a national highways authority of India official. “When we remove them, they show us panchayat approvals. But those nods are given in complete violation of norms,” he said. 
 
 
