NOIDA: Current president N P Singh will contest for the post of president yet again in the upcoming   ( ) elections slated for July 30. This was decided in a general body meeting amidst media presence held on Sunday (July 16).

 Sushil Agarwal, the founder of FONRWA, re-nominated Singh and A N Dhawan’s names for the posts of president and secretary general respectively at the meeting which was unanimously agreed upon by nearly 100 strong members present in the meeting.
 
 “Sushil Agarwal, patron and founder of FONRWA mentioned that while N P Singh and A N Dhawan had offered to quit contesting this year, it was found that all members present wanted them to continue nonetheless. Therefore, Sushil Agarwal nominated the name of N P Singh on behalf of the current team to contest the elections for the post of president,” said Sanjeev Kumar adviser, FONRWA.
 
 Kumar further adds that a similar request was made for A N Dhawan to continue as secretary general as his diligent performance despite his age, in all the written and legal matters of FONRWA were appreciated. “It was his hard work and minute scrutiny of documents that got us the DND toll free after a long legal battle last year said N P Singh, president FONRWA.
 
 “Regarding A N Dhawan, Sushil ji praised his ability, devotion and extensive knowledge of subjects as also of the rules and regulations and strongly put forth that it is in the interests of the Federation to have him continue for one more term as the secretary general, which was again unanimously agreed by members present,” said Kumar.
 
 Other contestant for the post of president is Sukhdev Sharma, who is the current president of RWA of Rajat Vihar, Pocket C, sector 62. There have been no other nominations for the post of general secretary. The final list of executive committee contestants will be out after July 20.
 
 Singh, happy at his re-nomination had not planned to contest this year, but said, he later agreed for the sake of continuity to finish pending work. “I personally did not plan on contesting again but the founding members asked me to, as there is still much work to be done in Noida. We are halfway through our fight for toll-free DND and are yet to get resident representatives in the Noida authority. Even the matter of freehold property is pending. Public amenities need to be improved and I am hopeful that I will be able to fulfil the expectations,” said Singh.
 
 FONRWA elections are held every two years where all presidents and general secretaries of all RWAs in the city are eligible to vote. This year, a total of 175 votes are expected to be cast for both posts, including RWA representatives, life members and founder-members. A total of two panels will be pitched against each other in the polls.
 
 RWA federation had earlier announced election dates of its executive committee for July 30 in a meeting held on June 30 at the federation office in sector 52. All RWAs were requested to clear their dues by June 30 to be eligible to participate in elections.
 
 In the meeting the AGM had decided on the names of election officers — K K Gautam, Jamil Ahmed and Satish Khanna — as per clause 11.6 of the by-laws of FONRWA, under which the election will be held.
 
 While June 30 was decided as the last date to clear outstanding dues and produce valid registration certificates of member RWAs so that they are eligible to participate in the forthcoming elections, July 1st onwards the names of contending candidates were to be disclosed.
 
 The RWA body had N P Singh and team earlier win the elections on July 30, 2014. But it was contested by some RWAs of the city in courts leading to a re-election on Sept 20, 2015 where again Singh and his team led a thumping victory winning 17 posts out of the 21-post executive committee, Only 4 posts went to the challenger  .
 
