GANDHINAGAR: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s pet project when he was Gujarat CM — chief Minister Fellowship Project — has become defunct under later state governments. 

 Under the project, Modi used to invite private citizens to get associated with the government and study the functioning of various departments. He encouraged them to give creative inputs to improve policies and schemes. 
 
 Around 80 students, each with a stipend of Rs 35,000 a month, were employed earlier but there is no record of their contribution. The state government used to make token provisions for the CM fellowship scheme but no one has taken up studies under the programme after 2013. 
 
 The funds lapsed every year. In 2015-16, the state government had allocated Rs52 lakh which was not used. In the current year, only Rs 1 lakh was allocated which is still lying unused.
 
 The fellowship programme was launched in 2009 and projected as an extraordinary opportunity for the youth to be part of social service for the future development of our country. 
 
 Fellows chosen for the programme were given high-profile projects with the claim that they would make an exceptional impact on social development. The programme aimed to give Fellows with an understanding of the increasing complexity of the development processes and the art of taking effective decisions for positive transformations.
 
 Under this programme, the selected Fellows had to spend 11 months working with the state government in a specific department or district of Gujarat. There was an introduction to the state government’s operations, ground-level study and the challenge to contribute to Gujarat's development transformation. 
 
 It was further argued that the Fellows will develop as individuals with competencies and aspirations to benefit the public through their chosen career paths. They were supposed to file their reports with the government and, on the basis of that, the state government was supposed to amend policies and programs. But that rarely happened.
 
 An official of the   (GAD) associated with the   said that appointments under the programme came down after Modi started touring for the 2014  . 
 
 “Interest in the program declined further after Modi become PM and left the state,” the official said. 
 
 “Fot the last two years, no one has been appointed under the programme. Grants allocated in the state budget have also lapsed. The state government is yet to decide whether to continue the programme or discontinue it from the next budget.”
 
