CHENNAI: Housing and infrastructure   the state are likely to come to a grinding halt as sand quarries in   have been shut from Saturday. The abrupt closure has left nearly one lakh construction workers in and around Chennai idle, and is set to have a cascading effect on allied commercial activities such as those engaged in ferrying sand and marketing construction materials.

 According to Public Works Department (PWD) officials, seven sand quarries, including two in Cuddalore and Villupuram districts falling under Chennai region, were closed following a direction by the Madras high court on Friday. "These quarries were allowed to operate with a condition that only manual quarrying should take place. But the contractor had allegedly violated it by engaging machines to remove sand, which was brought to the court’s notice,” a senior PWD official told TOI. Following this, a directive was issued to carry out quarrying manually, the official added. 
 
 About 58 quarries are functioning throughout the state, of which seven were granted permission in 2016 to carry out operations manually. Tamil Nadu State Sand Lorry Owner's Federation president   said that loading contractors have refused to deploy men for quarrying and shut down all the quarries in the state, besides the stockyards where sand is stored. "The available stock has been exhausted," he said. 
 
 The closure of quarries has come at a time when the construction sector is already reeling under a sand crisis. "While the demand in Chennai and suburbs is 6000 loads (each comprising 200-300 cubic feet), it receives just around 2500 loads every day due to the shutting down of functional quarries in the past," Yuvaraj added.
 
 Developers are warning that construction projects would be jeopardised. Former national president of Builders Association of India R Radhakrishnan said that sand prices are expected to spike further. "In a span of 15 days, prices have jumped to Rs 100 from Rs 80. Closure of sand quarries will have an adverse impact, stalling construction projects," he said. 
 
 Flat Promoters Association Chennai South president S Esakkinathan said small builders would be the worst hit due to non-availability of sand. "This will impact handing over homes to buyers as per schedule," he added. Builders are keeping their fingers crossed even as a PWD official suggested that the quarries may resume operations by Tuesday.
 
 
