AMARAVATI: In a key development, chief minister N   is hosting lunch for BJP supremo Amit Shah during the latter's visit to the state on Thursday.   ministers M Venkaiah Naidu and Nirmala Sitaraman and several leaders from state BJP have also been invited for the lunch at the chief minister's residence in Undavalli. 

 Interestingly, Shah, who is arriving here by 10 am, has kept the entire day blank to have an exclusive dialogue with the TDP supremo. Except for addressing the party cadre in the evening, no other programme has been included in the Shah's day-long itinerary. The   meeting has reportedly been planned to cool the tempers in both the camps that appeared to have strained after   chief   meeting the Prime Minister Narendra Modi to complain against the state government. While TDP leaders openly criticised the PMO for granting audience to Jagan, BJP leaders lashed out at the yellow brigade for trying to denigrate the office of the PM.
 
 Sources said Union minister M Venkaiah Naidu prevailed upon Shah about the need to take TDP along with them as long as the ruling party in the state is extending its unstinted support to the NDA. He is said to have explained to Shah about the urgent need to bury the hatchet to continue the harmonious alliance both at the Centre and in the state. Taking the senior leaders' views into account, Shah had already made it clear during his tour of Nalgonda that their alliance with the TDP in AP will stay for now. Without giving an indication about the future moves, Shah simply said: "We have an alliance with the TDP in AP. That's it."
 
 Sources said that TDP leadership has worked overtime to get an appointment with Shah during his visit to the state and succeeded in it. PM Modi granting appointment to Jagan when Naidu was away on a foreign tour last fortnight created ripples in the state political circles. Subsequently, Jagan's announcement to support BJP nominee in the Presidential elections soon after meeting the PM had led to an intense debate in the political circles about the chances of BJP severing ties with TDP by next elections.
 
 In fact, senior leaders in BJP and TDP camps were shocked when they came to know about Jagan's surprise visit to national capital and meeting the PM. Information on Jagan meeting the PM was kept under wraps until the YSRC leader entered the PMO. While a strong section in the BJP, which wanted to continue the bond with TDP turned mute, the group which has been insisting on snapping alliance has utilised the chance to take on the TDP.
 
 Vijayawada MP Kesineni Nani added fuel to fire by saying that the TDP would have got more seats and votes without an alliance with the BJP in the last elections. Although the field level leaders continue to engage in exchange of words, the top leaders coolly operated the things.
 
 Naidu and Shah will jointly launch the ambulances purchased with funds granted by Union railway minister Suresh Prabhu. BJP leader Prabhu is Rajya Sabha member from AP. 
 
