HYDERABAD: A good samaritan, whose timely intervention saved a 14-year-old girl from being sexually assaulted, was felicitated by LB Nagar police on Thursday and awarded ` 5,000.  , a 60-year-old farmer, also helped police nab the two culprits.

 The Hayatnagar police arrested the culprits who tried to force the minor girl into their car while she was returning home from school.
 
 Fortunately, Jagadishwar Goud, who witnessed the abduction, followed the car for nearly a kilometre and stopped the vehicle.
 
 Recounting the incident, Goud told TOI: “I was returning from Majidpur to Gunthapally. At 5 pm, I saw two persons in a car abduct the girl and drag her into their car. I followed them for nearly a kilometre and caught up with them. They were trying to force themselves on the girl.“
 
 He said he parked his bike in front of the car and pulled the girl and a culprit out.“The duo were so drunk that they were not aware what was happening to them. The driver dozed off at the wheel and I took the girl and the other culprit to the sarpanch of our village. Then, we called the cops,“ he added. The two have been booked under section 354 (Assault or use of criminal force to a woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the   (POCSO) Act.
 
 Meanwhile, in less than a week, there has been six dif ferent incidences of crime against women in city limits. Police have arrested two persons and sent them to jail for three days for passing lewd comments against women on December 31.
 
 In a related development, the SHE Teams of Hyderabad police have arrested two college students for stalking a girl at Chanchalguda.
 
 Teacher booked for `molesting' student
 
 Hyderabad: A teacher, who had been allegedly molesting girl students of   in Shapurnagar near Jeedimetla, was booked under the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on Thursday.
 
 The Jeedimetla police registered a case after a Class VI student's father lodged a complaint against Raja Rao, who teaches English at the school. The outrage came to light after the victim refused to go to school and, when her parents enquired, the student disclosed about Rao's misbehaviour.
 
 Raja Rao allegedly touched the girls at inappropriate places and abused them in filthy language. Police have so far not arrested the culprit.
 
