MUMBAI: The Gujarat high court on Monday refused to stay insolvency proceedings against   initiated by banks led by   (SBI) following a directive from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The debt-laden steelmaker had sought to stay proceedings on the grounds that the   should not have given such a direction given that a restructuring proposal from Essar was not considered. 

 Justice S G Shah of the Gujarat high court said that “it is clear that when the total debt is more than Rs 45,000 crore, there is no option, but to leave the issue at the discretion of the lenders to take appropriate steps in accordance with the law, thereby without interference of this court under the constitutional mandate”.
 
 The Essar petition was seen as a test case by the banking industry. Essar was one of the 12 defaulters referred to by the RBI in its directive asking banks to proceed against top defaulters in the   (NCLT). The court order will now encourage lenders to initiate proceedings against other large defaulters under the   (IBC).
 
 Another objection raised by Essar against the insolvency proceedings was that the RBI had arbitrary chosen the names of the companies against which banks were asked to initiate insolvency proceedings. The court, however, ruled that the RBI’s decision was not unjust or arbitrary.
 
 For the central bank, however, it was a mixed victory. The high court came down strongly on the central bank for its presumptions that it could issue directives to judicial or quasi-judicial bodies. The court said that irrespective of factual details and merits against the borrower or any litigant, the basic constitutional mandate is quite clear that the adjudicating authorities are not supposed to be guided by the advises or direction of the administrator in the form of government or its bodies or government institutions like the RBI.
 
 Banks say that the next step for lenders under the insolvency proceedings would be to attempt to put in place an insolvency professional who will take over the running of the company from the board. A committee of lenders will examine restructuring proposals, including the one put forth by Essar. In case there is no agreement on resolution, liquidation proceedings will be initiated.
 
 
