CHANDIGARH: Taking up the controversy over cremation of the founder of Divya Jyoti Jagriti Sansthan (DJJS)  , the   on Friday told the Punjab and Haryana high court that issue was to be decided by the judiciary.

 During the resumed hearing of the case before a division bench headed by Justice Mahesh Grover, Punjab advocate general (AG)   submitted before the court that the state couldn’t determine anybody’s religious beliefs. He said it was the jurisdiction of the court.
 
 Earlier when the case came up for hearing before the bench, the additional AG requested the court to grant some time on the grounds that the AG was in another court for hearing of some case.
 
 When the AG did not appear, a visibly upset Justice Grover ordered to reserve its verdict in the case. Later, on the request of AG, the bench de-reserved the case and resumed it for hearing.
 
 During the arguments, Nanda gave some instances where bodies were preserved. He specifically referred cases of some celebrities, including Soviet leaders   and  , to substantiate his argument that Ashutosh’s case was not rare.
 
 The case would now come up for hearing on May 8.
 
 A single bench of Justice M M S Bedi, in its December 1, 2014 orders, had directed that the Ashutosh Maharaj’s body should be cremated within 15 days by a committee comprising Jalandhar district magistrate, senior superintendent of police, municipal corporation commissioner, chief medical officer and the sub-divisional magistrate concerned.
 
 Aggrieved from these orders, functionaries of DJJS sect had challenged the order on the grounds that the courts were not “competent” to distinguish between a ‘naturally dead body’ and a body in ‘samadhi’ (deep meditation).
 
 DJJS had also submitted in its appeal that it has not pleaded before the court whether Ashutosh was dead or not and the court “had gone beyond the scope of the pleadings.”
 
 The Nurmahal-based ‘dera’ pointed out that HC had “erred” in concluding that Ashutosh had “no life” and deserved to be declared dead, saying that none of the parties had sought such a declaration.
 
 On several occasions, the HC has asked the asked Punjab government, DJJS and all other concerned parties to put their heads together and come out with an amicable solution on the controversy related to cremation of Ashutosh Maharaj.
 
