NEW DELHI:   are set to deal with Monday blues on Monday with   imposing   and   in order to prevent Jat community members from going ahead with their march to Parliament.

 The All India Jat Aarakshan Sangarsh Samiti (AIJASS), which is spearheading the agitation demanding reservations in education and government jobs, has given a call for a march to the national capital to gherao Parliament and to hold dharnas on the Delhi border blocking all highways to press for its demands.
 
 The Centre had on Saturday directed governments of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan to invoke CrPC 144 to stop Jat protesters and has mobilised 247 companies (about 24,700 personnel) of paramilitary forces in Haryana, Delhi and UP in view of the protest.
 
 Metro trains will not travel beyond the city's borders from 11.30 PM while 12 stations in Central Delhi will be shut from 8 PM till further orders.
 
 The affected stations will be Rajiv Chowk, Patel Chowk, Central Secretariat, Udyog Bhawan, Lok Kalyan Marg, Janpath, Mandi House, Barakhamba Road, R K Ashram Marg, Pragati Maidan, Khan Market and Shivaji stadium.
 
 However, interchange facility will be available at all the interchange stations.
 
 As directed by Delhi Police, services will not be available at Yellow line stations at Gurgaon, Blue Line stations at Noida and Violet Line stations at Faridabad.
 
 Roads like Kamal Ataturk Marg, Safdarjung Road, Kautilya Marg, Kautilaya T Point Near Bihar Bhawan, route from Teen Murti to Gole Methi roundabout and Zakir Hussain Road for the commuters coming from Nizamuddin to India Gate will be closed from 8 PM onwards today.
 
 Other routes between Ring Road and San Martin Marg, Amrita Shergill Marg from Lodhi Road, Max Mueller Mag from Lodhi Road, Arch Bishop Macarious Road from Lodhi Road and all lanes leading to Panchkuia road except Mandir Marg, RK Ashram Marg and Hospital Road will be closed from 11 PM onwards tomorrow.
 
 "Bona fide residents, employees working in offices situated in Lutyens' Delhi, emergency vehicles, entrance exam candidates, ambulance, hearse van, fire brigade, school buses and those who have come to the area for some work will only be allowed entry after furnishing proof," a senior police official said.
 
 The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has also issued advisory for class 10 and 12 students appearing for board examination on Monday to reach the examination centres well before the scheduled time to avoid any inconvenience in anticipation of the gherao.
 
 Jats are demanding reservations in government jobs and educational institutions, besides withdrawing of criminal cases registered against several youths of the community, release of those lodged in jail, and compensation and government jobs to the next of kin of those killed in last year's agitation.
 
