While no qualifications are not needed for bathroom singing, most do try to get the nuances exactly right. 

 But put them on a stage behind a mike and stage fear gets the better of them. When such amateur singers from Kochi were brought together by   and his wife   on September 24, under the platform of a workshop titled  , one could see some of them gradually conquer their fear and immerse themselves in impressive rendition. What’s more, they could even record a song in the studio, and get to know the process.
 
  The day started with each one of them being made to sing in front of the others, following which questions such as the choice of songs and whether one should try karaoke popped up. Some were confident of their singing abilities and were clearly thrilled to have got a stage to flaunt their skills, while others looked apprehensive whether they have really landed themselves in the wrong place.
 
 The participants included a Navy officer, a teacher, a doctor, a researcher and a few others from other fields. As the breathing exercises were taught, the confused expressions slowly gave way to smiles.
 
 Sunil says that their aim is to make people with a flair for music shed their inhibitions and instill enough confidence to perform before a crowd. He says back in 2013, they embarked on this mission with no long-term plan, but the enthusiasm that amateurs displayed made him quit his job and do it full-time.
 Taking the workshop to Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, Bangalore, Mumbai and UAE, they even had singers Hariharan and KS Chitra taking sessions for the enthusiasts.
 
 Sunil says that their workshop has three different stages. “The first stage not only introduces them to singing but also tackles range problems, breath control and other nuances. An attempt is also made to get rid of unwanted myths about singing.”
 
  The second stage has the various breathing exercises and getting them to practise, and following the final stage, the dais is set for a live performance. 
 Satish Chinnannavar, a software engineer, is one who has been a regular at the workshops. It turns out that he has recently recorded an original song penned down by Baby Doll and Chittiya Kalaiyaa writer Kumar at singer Hariharan's studio. He is just one among the many, according to Sunil, and gives the example of another amateur singer who has sung along with Kumar Sanu.
 
 Archana says it is heartening to see the joy in the singers, as they triumph over their inhibitions. “To see them perform is something other-worldly,” she says.
 Sunil recalls how a participant from Orissa invited his parents, a day before his live performance, and they were amazed to see such a transition in their son, who couldn't even sing, without his knees constantly shivering.” Such was his confidence that he even danced during the performance, adds Archana.
  Sunil and his wife have together conducted 300 workshops so far, trained 5,000 participants and helped 200 singers give live performances and many others to record a few original songs. Gopy Sunder’s guitarist, AR Rahman's keyboardist and even artistes from Ilaiyaraja’s studio have collaborated with them.
  Sunil has won the Kannada International Music Award for the album titled Reboot, which was on a techie’s life. In addition to it, he has also given a few performances and recorded around eight songs.
 
 "Being   is not a bad thing at all,” says Sunil. “It is just that they have to be given some recognition and encouragement and make them confident enough to sing before a group. What is even more important is that one has to enjoy what he or she is singing, only then others will also find joy in it.”
  
 
