NAGPUR: Last year, 12 reported suicides were committed by youths belonging to   community, majority of them were teenagers. To tackle the topic and urge individuals belonging to LGBT (Lesbian Gay Bi-sexual Transgender) to overcome problems in coping, members of   had organized a workshop on ‘Social acceptance and suicide cases’ at India Peace Centre on Tuesday evening.

 Founder of Sarathi, Anand Chandrani, said, “I attempted suicide in 1996 after my first break up and I had no support system. 10 years later, we’re facing the same issue. However, there are options now, and we would like members to share their problems with us.”
 
 Transgender activist Vidya Kamble said that LGBT individuals should convince their family members about their orientation and urged people to fight the situation. “Our community is our partner in this fight, and if we stick together, we can bring a change,” she said.
 
 Activist Dr Ravindra Bhusari announced that a radio feature on LGBT community made by Sarathi won the second prize. 
 
 Rakesh Kriplani, consulting psychologist, emphasized on the cause and effect. Whenever we experience pain, we try to find a remedy instead of asking why it occurred in the first place. He underlined the reasons for suicides — adjustment issues, weak coping skills, broken or strained relationships and lack of pleasure. We need to contain suicidal thoughts in our subconscious. And most of all, whatever anyone tells you, let it not affect you.
 
 Psychologist Swati Dharmadhikari said, “We must accept that we are a bit different from the rest, and only we can change the situation. Change will occur when we accept ourselves. One must not cut off themselves from others. Becoming lonely is the first step towards depression. Early diagnosis is the best treatment. We have a social responsibility to identify those around us who are becoming lonelier. We should let our situations take the better of us.
 
 Programme officer of   Amit Tembhurne told about the ways to communicate with one’s family. “If you feel awkward telling them on face, it’s better to write a note. Or you could call and tell them. The more you open up, the faster your problems will get solved. Most importantly, love yourself. Be your favourite.”
 
