 is currently shooting for the Kannada film Contract alongside   and  . We caught up with the actress for a candid chat, in which she spoke about a host of topics, ranging from her surname to her comeback. Excerpts...

 
 People ask me what to address me as, Radhika or Radhika Kumaraswamy. I think eventually it’s me as an actress who matters. There’s nothing to hide or clarify, everyone knows the news. I’ve chosen not to address this as talking anything about this would only mean people misconstrue what I say. I’m instead concentrating on my family, doing good movies and also ensuring my banner stays alive. Being in showbiz, one cannot survive post an age, your shelf-life is limited to a certain time period. I want to do work that remains forever. I’m crazy about cinema.
 
 
 People ask me if Contract is my comeback film, but I don’t understand the word comeback. I’d never gone anywhere for me to come back. I was here, but a little choosy with regards to the scripts. I also have a business to take care of, so I balance my passion — cinema — and my business. I agree my 10 year sabbatical earlier, before I returned as a producer for Lucky was rightly called as a comeback. But, who am I to go and correct people regarding this, again?
 
 I am paired alongside two heroes, JD   and Arjun Sarja in Contract. In many ways, I can say that the film revolves majorly around me. I had a great time shooting for this film, because my director Sameer is very soft spoken and a gem of a person. Usually, a director is harsh and tries to order people around. But, Sameer is extremely soft-natured and it was a wonderful experience working with him.
 
 
 When I first saw JD Chakravarthy, I was apprehensive on how I would strike a rapport. As an artiste, we need to have an understanding to react when working in a scene. He didn’t talk much on the first day. But I understood it was his nature and he does not talk too much. Now, though, we connect over cinema as he is as passionate about films as I am. He shares a lot of knowledge and facts on the set and we connected on cinema. 
 
 I have finished a schedule of shooting for   alongside V Ravichandran. But, I have decided not to talk about it till the team formally announces and reveals details. Even the few pictures that have gone viral online are not stills from the film but just fan clicks on the set. 
 
 
