NEW DELHI: Apart from being symbols of the capital’s rich heritage, there is something else that connects the Red Fort,  ,   and Qutub Minar. 

 No, it isn’t something to feel good about. These places suffer from  , cleanliness woes and lack of usable public amenities etc. At least that’s what a group of 50 school and college students from different parts of the country has found. 
 
 The group, which included 23 girls, took part in a two-day participatory safety audit (PSA) of these monuments while they were in the capital for research training. Coming from West Bengal, UP, Rajasthan, Haryana, Bihar and Delhi, these students are associated with Kadam Badhate Chalo (KBC) programme launched by Society for Participatory Research in Asia (PRIA) and Martha Farell Foundation. It’s a campaign against violence on girls and women. 
 
 The students found that the security guards at the heritage sites weren’t sensitised enough to safety concerns of women, and there were fewer women guards and police personnel. They also found that CCTV surveillance was poor, and there were many dark spots in and around these monuments. Parks were unmonitored and even boundary walls had been compromised. 
 
 “This Delhi audit is to boost their confidence by doing their own audit and learn about the methodology. KBC is a youth-led intervention that seeks to end violence against women and girls. It works with 14,601 youths in 12 locations across six states,” said Rajesh Tandon, founder president, PRIA. The audit also talked about harassment of people at these places. One such incident cited talked about a male guard dragging a woman hawker by her hair as she tried to enter a monument to sell peanuts. 
 
 The students also found toilets for women unclean and were horrified that these were cleaned by men. A girl in the group had the toilet door knocked by someone while she was inside. When she opened it, she saw a male cleaner standing outside with a mop. 
 
 “This is particularly shocking, and more so in the light of the fact that many of the lavatories do not sport latches on their doors, forcing women to either keep them shut with one hand or have someone else stand guard outside,” said Akhila Betsy George, a programme officer from PRIA who is in charge of the KBC programme in Haryana.
 
 Another aspect touched upon was the treatment of foreigners or those considered outsiders. Some of the KBC youth described being stared at as if they were aliens, and most of the KBC groups pointed out that loiterers sniggered and spoke in lewd and xenophobic ways about foreign tourists. “A young girl from Jaipur broke down while sharing these stories, having been the recipient of lewd comments throughout the day and even molestation on a bus when she was returning from the monument,” the report stated.
 
