Mumbai: About 1.5km of the   (SGNP) will be deforested to widen the Dahisar-Surat section of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad National Highway 8. Incidentally, this section was also part of the eco-sensitive zone around SGNP that was recently notified by the Union forests ministry. 

  The highway project is among several road and railway   projects that have been proposed through the world's most unique urban forest. The others include the   freight corridor, an elevated road connecting Mumbai and Thane, an underground tunnel also linking Mumbai to Thane and a ropeway. 
 
  The proposal was sent to the   directly by the state government. The board has now directed the government to route it through the state wildlife board. The chief minister is the head of the board. Forest officials said it is only a matter of procedure and the deforestation of the 1.5km stretch will be approved. 
 
  The proposal submitted to the board says it has been approved by the state's chief wildlife warden with conditions and mitigation measures. The SGNP authorities have suggested that a boundary wall be erected on either side of this stretch to prevent encroachment into the forest. It has also asked for sound barriers as the area is frequented by wildlife. 
 
 Sources said overpasses and underpasses are not feasible on this stretch as it is too small. The park has one of the highest density of leopards, with over 30 spotted cats in the 103 sq km park.
 
 The SGNP authorities have suggested that a boundary wall be erected on either side of the 1.5-km stretch between Hotel Fountain and the Kashimira naka to prevent encroachment into the forest after the Mumbai-Ahmedabad Highway is widened from three lanes to six. It has also asked for sound barriers as the area is frequented by wildlife. 
 
 The SGNP has one of the highest density of leopards, with over 30 spotted cats in the 103 sq km park.
 
 Wildlife enthusiasts were shocked that the proposal was being done surreptitiously. "Even when the freight corridor proposal was mooted in 1998, it was in the public domain. It is shocking that the forest department should directly send the proposal to the wildlife board without going through the state wildlife board," said a naturalist.
 
  said, "Today, we are facing flood threats, scarcity of water and heat island issues. Yet, the government is nibbling away at the forest bit by bit."
 
