BENGALURU: With many of his confidants and senior cabinet ministers showing little interest in taking up the high profile job of home minister, chief minister   is reportedly scouting for fresh faces ever since KPCC chief G Parameshwara resigned as minister nearly a month ago.

 The two fresh names doing the rounds of late are Lingayat ministers   and Vinay Kulkarni. If the grapevine is to be believed, Siddaramaiah is toying with the idea of appointing one of these two ministers to unsettle the clout of   state president   among the major Lingayat community in  , ahead of the 2018 polls.
 
 But a source close to Siddaramaiah said the CM's choice is still transport minister B Ramalinga Reddy , who has hesitantly agreed to take up the job, but with a rider.“He is ready to take up the job only if he is allowed to retain the transport portfolio along with home,'' they added.
 
 The CM is also persuading his confidant and PWD minister HC Mahadevappa to take up the home portfolio, with the thinking that a Dalit would be able to handle the volatile situation in   effectively.
 
 Though the CM was not in a hurry to appoint the home minister, he is now desperate to get rid of the sensitive port folio with the opposition gunning for him over poor handling of the recent communal violence in Dakshina Kannada. “The CM is too busy to handle home affairs. Now he should pass the baton to one of his cabinet colleagues quickly,“ said a senior officer in the home department.
 
 To some senior ministers, the home ministry has turned out to be a jinxed one, with two home ministers forced to quit. The other reason is that they are dreading tough times ahead with communal tension raging in Dakshina Kannada district.
 
 When Siddaramaiah assumed office in 2013, KJ George was the home minister.He survived for nearly three years before he was named by DySP M K Ganapathi as being responsible for his suicide last year. He otherwise had a tough time throughout his tenure, following the high-profile suicide case of IAS officer D K Ravi, riots in Kodagu and cricket betting. George was succeeded by Parameshwara who also faced ignominy with reports of rape cases and molestation before he resigned at the behest of the party high command on June 21.
 
