Kolkata: Colleges can’t admit students beyond their intake capacity from the 2017-18 academic session and if they still do so, the registration of the excess students will stand cancelled, education minister Partha Chatterjee said during the Question Hour in the assembly on Wednesday.

 On Wednesday, while replying to a question from Trinamool MLA Udayan Guha on the increasing student pressure on Dinhata College, Chatterjee said he will first have to inquire if the college is taking students beyond the approved intake. “Some universities are admitting students beyond the sanctioned quota. This is hampering the quality of education which we shall not allow to happen anymore. We have already decided that only online admissions will be allowed,” said the minister. The minister on Wednesday also expressed his disgust over dismal attendance in colleges. 
 
 “This applies to students under the reserved category for whom the government is spending a lot. They are enjoying all benefits but the attendance is at a dismal 6%-10%,” said a school education department official. 
 
 On Tuesday, Calcutta University had decided to scrap the registration of students of those colleges which have admitted candidates beyond their sanctioned strength. The   Syndicate will now convey this to all 142 affiliated colleges. “Before Part I examinations, colleges send names of candidates who are then provided a registration number by the university. This gives us an index to determine if colleges admit students more than their approved capacity. If they are proved guilty, registration will be denied to students,” said a CU source.
 
 After being prodded by the education minister, CU had earlier sought details of admissions in honours courses from all affiliated colleged. Data received by CU has shown that some colleges had violated the stipulated student intake. The college principals, however had unanimously pointed out that in most cases more students were admitted in “popular” courses like English, Bengali, physics, chemistry and geography.
 
 
