MUMBAI: Promises of better   at public hospitals may have ended the  , which saw the interventions by the judiciary and the government last week, but veterans from the medical fraternity believe the problem lies in the staggering demand-supply gap.

 Data accessed by TOI shows there are just 54 doctors per 1lakh population in the city, as against 296 in Shanghai, 282 in Tokyo, 393 in New York, 355 in Beijing and 85 in Sao Paulo. The expansion of facilities and manpower at civic hospitals here has not kept up with upsurge in patients.
 
 “The gap in demand and supply has given rise to resentment among people, and doctors, who are the first point persons, and bear the brunt of it,“ a former dean of Sion hospital said. State government estimates show city's civic health set-up caters to close to 16th of the state's population.The ratio of private-public hospitals too is 60:4, which is higher than most other countries.
 
 The load on the biggest tertiary hospitals-cum-medicalcolleges like KEM, Sion and Nair is borne out by these statistics. Parel's KEM, which has 1,800 beds, treated 19.52 lakh OPD patients in 2016, while 86,290 patients were admitted. Civic hospitals here are bearing the brunt of providing good service, experts have felt. Sion hospital, with a bed capacity of 1,750, admitted 81,862 patients and treated 22.31 lakh in OPDs. The hospital carried out nearly 13,000 deliveries in 2015, perhaps the highest at any centre. The 30 maternity homes of BMC have together carried out over 15,000 deliveries. The average stay of a patient is a week. Nair, which has 1,304 beds, treated 3.50 lakh patients in its OPD last year.
 
 The load on the city's biggest tertiary hospitals-cummedical-colleges like KEM, Sion and Nair is borne out by those statistics.
 
 KEM dean Dr Avinash Supe said at least 45% patients are not from the city.
 
 A senior professor iterated, “Mumbai's civic hospitals are bearing the brunt of providing good service. In fact, most other corporations such as Mira-Bhayander, Kalyan and Navi Mumbai are doing little to strengthen healthcare.“ A senior gynaecologist said that it results in scores of last-minute referrals, which puts a load on these tertiary hospitals and risks the life of a patient.
 
 It often gets frustrating for doctors at tertiary centres who want to do research and treat critical cases worthy of their degree and experience.“At the medicine OPDs of Sion and Nair, what we mainly handle is cases of fever, malaria and dengue, which can easily be handled at dispensaries and primary health centres,“ said a lecturer in medicine, who feels OPD charges of tertiary hospitals should be increased to discourage people from coming for minor ailments.
 
 But primary health centres (PHC) in Mumbai are in adequate and do not work to their capacity. Besides vacancies, the centres have nonfunctional equipment and in sufficient scheduled drugs, which have to be given free.“Over the years, BMC has neglected PHCs, the first level in healthcare in a city. For reduction of stress of major hospitals, PHCs should be strengthened,“ said a former executi ve health officer of the BMC In five years, BMC has started only seven dispensaries even as patients using the ser vices have increased by nearly 11lakh. The city has 173 dispensaries and 106 health posts that treat around 41lakh patients.
 
