PATNA: Though   (BPSC) went high-tech and entertained application forms online only, the technology failed to help many students who had to gherao the BPSC office on Saturday to get their admit cards for the preliminary examination scheduled to be held on Sunday. 

 Hundreds of such students, who had filled up their forms for the examination but could not get their admit cards on the official portal, gathered outside the BPSC office demanding permission to write the examination. However, the candidates were neither allowed to enter the premises nor meet any official.
 
 Some students had moved the Patna high court, which had allowed them to get their admit card from the BPSC office after showing their bank challan and registration number. But the permission was granted to only those who had filed the petition. “Why are we not allowed to take the examination?” asked one Chandan Kumar, who had come all the way from   in Delhi to write the exam. Chandan said he had filled in the form online and received a message as well from the BPSC. “I have a copy of the bank challan and the message I got,” he said.
 
 The candidates said those who moved the high court were their representatives and equal justice should be meted out to all. They demanded BPSC to either allow them to sit in the examination or extend the date till each one gets admit card.
 
 The candidates also claimed they faced so much problem in the online process. “It took me six days to simply fill up the form because the server had some problem,” said Amit Kumar. Gajendra Kumar added, “One thing is clear; BPSC is not capable of doing anything online.”
 
 There were also some candidates who had the last chance this year to appear at the BPSC exam. Rohit Kumar Sharma (35) from Katihar said it would be his last attempt. “I am already 35, which is the upper age limit for general category candidates.” 
 
 Many students who are supposed to take Intermediate examination conducted by the   (BSEB) from February 14 also gathered outside BSEB office on Saturday and claimed there were problems in the form-filling process. Many students said wrong subject was printed on their admit cards. Around 50 students of BRM College, Munger took out a procession in Patna because they could not get their admit cards. 
 
 
