BENGALURU: For a person who has led a reclusive life for the past 30-something years, getting back in to the spotlight can be an anxious experience. Even more so when there's extreme curiosity attached to your life, and your family. Artist   (formally known as Bharani Thirunal Rukmini Bayi Varma) knows what that feels like. The fourth princess of the Travancore royal family, the granddaughter of Maharani Sethu Lakshmi Bayi and the great granddaughter of  , she is also an artist whose nude paintings caused a furore in   when she showed them in 1981. A successful self-taught artist, 76-year-old Varma voluntarily retired from the spotlight in 1982, choosing instead to focus on spirituality and taking care of her parents, the late   and Sri Kerala Varma Koil Tampuran Avargal. 

 "I thought that that whole period of my life was finished and done with. I was content being a recluse and following my spiritual path. That gave me satisfaction and that was what life was for me," says Varma as she readies to show her latest collection of paintings in Bengaluru on January 20 in Gallery G. Called Opulence & Eternity, the paintings see her dabbling in her favourite subject: human figures. Handsome men and beautiful women from historical times come alive swathed in gold, exemplifying sensuality and beauty. Edited excerpts from an interview she gave to TOI recently:
 
 You are going to have an exhibition of your paintings after a long sabbatical. Are you nervous?
 
 I was! It is overwhelming. I don't know what is going to happen. I initially felt a little odd but I have met such nice, lovely people during the course of preparing for the exhibition. The interactions I have had make me feel that it is not all in vain. Frankly speaking, I am just a very ordinary person, but I'd like to think that I have done some thing important by way of my work. I believe that an artist is a non-entity. It is art that is important and one's art should speak for one.
 
 How did the idea for the exhibition come about?
 
 The paintings that you will see in the exhibition are ones that I had started before 1982. They were unfinished and lying at home. When I entered the reclusive stage, I followed a spiritual path altogether. I thought that the whole period of my life was finished and done with. That was until we started the Raja Ravi Varma Foundation last year. We used to have meetings related to the foundation at my home and it was during one of these meetings that Gita (Maini) came across these unfinished works. She asked me to 'finish it'. She sort of made me feel that it was my duty to finish them. I felt that's exactly what I should do and so, I went ahead and finished them within the last six months.
 
  
  
 
 
 The paintings, true to the name of the exhibition, are opulent. What's the story behind this series of paintings?
 
 I was always interested in painting human figures. Talking about these paintings, what you should know is I paint them based on visions that I get. I have been getting these visions from the time I was 6-or 7-years old. It was when I was about 25 or 30 years, however, that I started painting them. I don't know why I get these visions, it is strange, but in them, I see these heavily-decked men and women who belong to ancient times. 
 
 Once I get these visions, I quickly take a brush, make an outline on a canvas and paint on it. Over the next few days, I develop the painting more, adding flesh tones, which I think is my forte. Painting the jewellery takes a long time. It takes me about 20-25 days to finish a painting.
 
 You are a self-taught artist. Did you ever feel the need to learn under someone? How supportive was your grandmother, Maharani Sethu Lakshmi Bayi?
 
 I very much wanted to learn art. In fact, I wanted to go to an art school to learn it. But in those days it wasn't allowed. There were so many restrictions and you couldn't bypass any of those. Painting was considered to be a distraction. My father was keen that we focused on academics. So, I used to do my drawings and paintings in secret. Only my grandmother knew that I painted and I used to show it to her. She didn't know much about techniques, but she was very appreciative. She encouraged me all along and I'll never forget that.
 
 As the great-great-granddaughter of Raja Ravi Varma, do you see it as your responsibility to keep his memory alive? Is that why you started the Raja Ravi Varma foundation?
 
 I did have this strong feeling that I should somehow keep my great-great-grandfather's name alive. But I didn't know how to go about it. Gita is the one who actually helped me realize those dreams. Today, I am glad that I have revived my great-great-grandfather's legacy again and hope to continue it because his art is timeless.
 
 Is there a Raja Ravi painting that you absolutely love and wished you could paint?
 
 As a child, I was most impressed by this painting which is now in the Mysore palace gallery. I don’t remember what it is called - (The painting Varma refers to is called Indrajit Vijaya). It is a big scene where there are many figures. There’s Indirajit, Ravana’s son. He has conquered Indra and has brought Indra and apsaras to his father. The whole way the whole scene has been conceptualized – it’s a beautiful balanced construction. It’s my all-time favourite. 
 
 What do you remember about growing up in the  ?
 
 That life was quite different from anything you can imagine over here! You had this big retinue of maids and guards, who would follow you around, even if you went from one room to another! If you stepped outside out of the house, you had guards and footmen bowing down to you. And then, every time the family walked in front of them, the guards had to present arms. So, as children, we would pass by them some 10 times just to make them present arms! (laughs) That was so funny, but of course, we were scolded afterwards.
 
