PATNA: Deputy chief minister Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Thursday claimed that   would be developed as a dedicated  , where commercial civil aviation operation is proposed to commence from 2019.

 While the Patna-end of Khagaul-Shivala-Bihta road is situated at Khagaul, around 500 metres west from Danapur railway station, the Bihta-end of this road is at Kanhauli village, around 1km before Bihta town area.
 
 The proposal of upgrading this road into four lane is included in the budget of road construction department for the fiscal 2016-17 under non-plan head. “As per modern practices, a dedicated expressway is required for vehicular traffic coming to new airports and the four-laning of Khagaul-Shivala-Bihta road would serve this purpose,” Tejashwi said while talking to reporters during inspection of ongoing flyover projects in the state capital.
 
 The four-laning of the existing two-lane road would improve connectivity of Bihta with Patna. The high-speed transportation would also boost real estate activities and overall development of the fast growing township, which is already labelled as an industrial and educational hub.
 
 Apart from Khagaul-Bihta road, the deputy chief minister claimed that work on station road flyover and approach road for Digha-Sonepur rail-cum-road bridge would be completed by June this year. The work on the station road flyover had commenced in November 2013 and it was initially scheduled to be completed by the end of December, 2015, which was later revised to December last year. The project is getting executed with an expenditure of Rs164 crore.
 
 Station road flyover apart, construction work on Digha-Sonepur rail-cum- road project started in 2002 and it is delayed by nine years as the project was scheduled to be completed in 2007. Though both road and rail deck of the bridge were made ready last year and movement of passenger trains also commenced from February last year, vehicular movement on the road deck has still not commenced owing to delay in construction of approach roads on either side.
 
 The deputy CM also claimed that the R-Block flyover would be made ready by November 2018. The R-Block flyover would connect Mithapur ROB to Bhikhari Thakur ROB (near Vidhan Sabha) over Hardinge Road via R Block roundabout.
 
 Tejashwi added that the dismantling work on Mahatma Gandhi Setu would commence only after alternative routes are ready. The deputy CM claimed that a pontoon bridge underneath Gandhi Setu would be made ready by February 1 and Ara-Chhapra bridge by March-end. 
 
 The existing concrete road deck of the 34-year old bridge is proposed to be dismantled and steel frames are to be erected under the proposed rehabilitation work, which was scheduled to be commissioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 15, but it was postponed following the Sabbalpur diara boat tragedy.
 
 
