Bhopal: An eight-year-old girl kept the ChildLine (Railways) on its toes for a week by cooking up a story of her abduction. However, the story fell through when kin of the girl turned up to file a missing person report and traced her at the GRP police station. 

 ChildLine officials said the Jabalpur-based girl was recovered from platform 2 at Bhopal railway station on September 13. She was stopped by a railway ChildLine staffer on being found alone.
 
 ChildLine coordinator   said, “When the volunteer inquired her whereabouts she said she was abducted by a man in Jabalpur.” Joshi said the girl claimed she was a slum dweller living near   railway station area in Jabalpur. She said that she was abducted by a man from Jabalpur railway station, who took her to his house and confined her there. She said she managed to flee from her abductor’s clutches when he was taking her to some other city and got down to get water at Bhopal station.” He used to take her to temples and forced her into begging, she had stated.
 
 Joshi said they suspected her story because of inconsistencies. The abduction story was exposed when two women approached GRP to file a missing person report about the girl. The details matched with the girl in ChildLine custody, and the cops brought the girl who was identified by two women who turned out to be her mother and grandmother.
 
 Her mother said, “They reside in   village in Jabalpur district and they make a living by begging at Hoshangabad, Jabalpur and Bhopal railway stations. Her husband had left her a few years ago. On September 13, they had come to Bhopal to visit a relative who was admitted at Hamidia hospital. 
 
 “However, when they reached at Bhopal railway station, the girl got down and ran to fetch water and but did not return.” During interrogation, girl’s mother confessed that she trained her daughter to cook up an abduction story whenever she was caught begging.
 
 Joshi said, “We will submit a detailed report of the case to CWC on Wednesday seeing which it will take an action against the family.” He added that the child is at   at present. 
 
 
