NEW DELHI: Scotch, Sam, Rosy and Laila have entirely different personalities, but they have one thing in common: true to the adage of being a man’s best friend, they love to be around people. Now — along with six others — these canine friends have been provided with a chance to be adopted, as they move to a new foster-care facility launched by   SECA in  .

 The facility will also allow abandoned   to be fostered, trained and put up for  .
 
 While the NGO already runs an animal shelter under the Defence Colony flyover, the new facility aims to keep healthy dogs ready for adoption in a clean and hygienic environment where they can acclimatise to human interaction. The shelter itself rescues close to 20 strays daily — most of whom are abandoned — and while the new foster-care facility can only accommodate 10, the NGO believes that it will help provide them a better environment and direct access to people willing to adopt them.
 
 Most strays need treatment and can go back to their respective areas. About two abandoned pets, on average, make it to the shelter with 60 adoptable animals provided every month. 
 
 Geeta Seshamani, co-founder of Friendicoes, said: “The new fostering unit will act as an adoption centre where healthy dogs can be shifted and kept away from those that are diseased or infected, providing them training and a chance to find a home. A majority of dogs we rescue are found in a terrible state; they are treated and kept at the shelter with others, and may catch a disease or infection. This unit can ensure that they stay in a clean environment.” 
 
 Seshamani said her NGO received quite a few enquiries from people wanting to adopt pets, but they couldn’t gauge the nature of a dog if it was in a shelter or was caged. “The fostering unit can allow owners to visit and play with these dogs too,” she said.
 
 Animal lovers can also ‘sponsor’ a dog at the facility if — for whatever reason — they can’t bring one home. The sponsor can pay for the medical expenses of the dog till it finds a home. Members also pointed out that, in most cases, pets were abandoned as the family couldn’t take care of them.
 
 “Rosy, a mixed breed, was left here after the family could not take care of it. Laila’s advancing age works against her as people want younger pets. The new facility will give such pets a chance too,” said a volunteer. Seshamani felt that while a majority of the dogs found abandoned made a quick recovery, their best chance of being adopted was in a clean environment, away from an animal shelter. “To accommodate healthy dogs, we usually have to keep them in boarding, or send them to people's homes for fostering. We want more animal lovers to come forward and visit the facility when it is functional to interact and give them a chance,” she said.
 
 
