HYDERABAD: In a step towards curbing steep school admission fees, the Hyderabad Schools Parents' Association (HSPA) on Wednesday began filing first information reports (FIRs) against schools at police stations across the city.

 On the first day, the association filed complaints against Sloka, the Hyderabad Waldorf School (Jubilee Hills), Jubilee Hills Kindergarten School, Phoenix Greens School, Gachibowli and Green Gables School, Madhapur, at Jubilee Hills, Raidurgam, and Madhapur police stations.
 
 “We had warned the schools and government that we would file a police case if they failed to take action   in several schools. So, we have now started fi ling complaints in police stations. As the schools are situated at various locations, we were able to file four complaints on the first day. The remaining eight schools will be covered in a day or two,“ Aravinda Jata, president of HSPA, said.
 
 Members of the association submitted proof of capitation fee collection in the form of printed fee structures along with the copies of the relevant government orders and government circulars, which clearly show a li mit of `5,000 on one-time fees, under any name whatsoever, at the time of admission.
 
 Parents welcomed the move. “As we are shifting from Tarnaka to Ameerpet, we wanted to change our son's school. When we visited a reputed school in the area, we were shocked to see the admission fee they are collecting under various names. They had something called teacher training fund and one-time activity corpus fund. I don't understand why a parent has to pay to train their teachers,“ K Venkata Sainath, a parent, said.
 
 “After seeing all this, we decided not to admit him in an upmarket school. If we pay a lump sum as 'illegal' fund, what would he learn from us? We want him to have values and morals rather than some fancy school name as a tag,“ Sainath added.
 
 HSPA had given a list of 14 schools to the commissioner and director of school education and district education officers on December 15 and requested action. After this, two schools on the list brought down their admission fee to '5,000 from '1 lakh and '10, 000.
 
 “After our complaint to the school education department about exorbitant fees, many schools have reduced their admission fee to `5,000.Taking a cue from us, we request all citizens and activists to file complaints in respective police stations against the schools charging an unreasonable amount as admission fee in their localities,“ Jata said. The schools refused to comment on the complaints.
 
