HUBBALI:   can travel in   in some trains without making a reservation.

 In a bid to provide comfortable travel experience to short distance passengers,   (SWR) has decided to de-reserve certain coaches in seven express trains. Accordingly, now passengers can buy unreserved journey tickets and commute in these earmarked sleeper coaches in the notified section. 
 
 This has been done for trains having poor patronage in selected sections during day time for comfort of  . For such de-reserved coaches, reservation facility has been disabled, after prescribed stations, to avoid any inconvenience to reserved passengers.
 
 Assistant Commercial Manager (HQ) of SWR N Rajkumar has issued order to all three divisions and commuters have been got this facility in different routes of SWR zonal over 31 coaches. He said that earmarking of sleeper coaches as ‘Unreserved Second Class’ over identified trains and distance of Hubballi, Bengaluru and Mysuru divisions to accommodate substantial volume of passengers by some routes has implemented from February 16. ‘By this initiative, we have met long pending demand of unreserved sleeper class from the commuters’ he added.
 
 Rajkumar shared that they have conducted proper study and assessed the six month’s data before declaring unreserved sleeper coaches. `For example Hosapete to Hubballi in Hampi Express train met good response from commuters; most of passengers had been travelled in sleeper coaches, because those coachers were empty and normal coaches used to see huge crowed. We have selected 7 express trains for this new scheme for comfortable journey of them’ he asserted. 
 
 He further clarified, ` Passengers travelling in other than prescribed coaches will have to pay the difference of fare between the two classes. If they travel in coaches declared as `unreserved sleeper’, they need not pay single paisa between given section of trains. For instance, if an unreserved passenger travels board in S-1 coach of train number: 16591, he has to pay difference amount. If travels in coaches from S-6 to S-9 in same train between Hubballi-Hosapete section, he need not pay any additional amount. Even season ticket holders can also travel in such prescribed coaches of prescribed trains between notified section’.
 
 ‘We had demanded many times to declare some sleeper coaches as unreserved for comfortable journey, now SWR has responded to our demand and has taken good decision through declaring four sleeper coaches as unreserved recently’ expressed Babulal Jain, Member of Hubballi Zonal Railway Users Committee.
 
