

 The cozy winters might call for some pyaar but the impeding exams have made sure that students have only padhai to do in the sweltering heat. Since managing pocket money itself is a Herculean task for students, buying air-conditioners of coolers is out of question. It is now that they have understood the importance of keeping the windows open. Some have even found respite in studying on the terrace or balconies of their hostels and PG accommodation. Shalini Narayan, a fashion communication student, says that she lives in a PG and coolers are not allowed there. “Examinations and our upcoming fashion show are big events in April and the heat is making it impossible for us to concentrate. Also, congested rooms add to the worry. So, to get some relief, we shift to a neighbouring room, which has a balcony, and spend time studying there,” she says. Shivani Bhargawa, another fashion communication student, has a logical explanation to not buying a cooler. “What will we do with the cooler after three months of  ? It is of no use and will only eat up our storage space, which anyway is restricted. Hence, matka or fridge water is our answer to the heat,” she reasons.
 
  
  
  
 On a scale of 1-10, this reason would perhaps score 15 when it comes to quirkiness. Move over ceiling fans and AC expenses; for some students, catching a movie is the way forward, to beat the heat. How? “After studying, we plan to head to a   hall. Movies not only help in stress-busting, but the AC halls offer at least a few hours of respite from the heat,” informs Pratiksha Kasture, a student staying in Kothrud. Gayatri Gangurde, a Savitirbai Phule Pune University student, adds, “We head to the auditorium whenever possible because it has AC and we get some relief there.”
 
 
 Pune is still pleasant when compared to some other places in the country. So, the best option to beat the heat during holidays is by not going on a vacation. Putting this into practice is Husain Mukadam. “Thankfully, my exams got over just two days ago so I didn’t have to face the heat while studying. I was planning to go to Gujarat on a trip, but cancelled my bookings. If Pune is so hot, I can’t even imagine what the temperature in Gujarat would be,” he says.
 
 
 If someone tells you that they study sitting under the tress, you would probably laugh it off thinking ‘who does that these days’. But behold; one visit to the SPPU campus will give you enough proof to believe this. The university has a good green cover and it is proving to be beneficial for the hostel dwellers. Abhay Deshmukh, a student, says, “Many students prefer sitting under the trees near Jaykar Library for studies. The shade and cool surroundings help us focus.”
 
  
  
 
 Considering the heat, the Association of heads of secondary schools has written to state education minister Vinod Tawde urging him to change the class X and XII board examination dates. The letter submitted to the minister states that since the last few summers have been hotter than usual, it causes difficulty for students to concentrate and solve the examination paper. Considering this, the association wants the examinations to be conducted before mid-March. The association has also appealed to reschedule the paper timings from 11 am to 9 am.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
