BHUBANESWAR: The state government has issued an alert and asked police in all districts to keep tabs on  , who have working in the country on tourist visa.

 The police pulled up their socks following a directive by   (MHA), asking all states to identify Chinese nationals, employed in companies in India on tourist visa. TOI possesses a letter issued on September 20 by special branch of Odisha Police in which district superintendents of police (SPs) have been asked to remain alert.
 
 “We recently received a letter from the bureau of immigration under the MHA. Four days ago, we circulated the letter to all SPs and asked them to find out Chinese nationals, who visit the state on the pretext of working in mobile companies like   and  . The information will be sent to the foreign regional registration office (FRRO) in Hyderabad,” a senior police officer told TOI. But the officer parried to question whether the letter was despatched in the backdrop of recent military standoff between the two countries.
 
  
  
 Director general of police R P Sharma said foreigners with tourist visa, are not supposed to work in companies as employees. “We had sent back eight Chinese nationals from   district as they were found overstaying in the district in June last year. The Chinese citizens were on business visa and worked in a company engaged in the expansion of a port in Bhadrak, which is located a few kilometres away from defence-sensitive APJ Abdul Kalam Island (Wheeler Island) from where India test-fires its missiles,” Sharma said.
  
 Footfall of tourists from China in Odisha is second highest among East Asia countries after Japan. Total 14,619 tourists from China visited the state between 2013 and 2016, official statistics of the tourism department said. In 2017, around 1600 Chinese tourists toured the state till June. “As of now there is no problem for Chinese tourists to visit India. We have not received any advisory from Centre regarding any restriction. All tourists can have safe visit to the state,” said a tourism official.
 
