HYDERABAD: Residuary   is all set to get the biggest infrastructure support from the Centre in the form of the   .The Centre has agreed to finance the entire construction cost of the  , which will not have any curves or turns, pegged at Rs 29,000 crore.

 “The Centre is finalizing the modalities of funding the proposal and the same will be discussed in the next Union cabinet meeting. In fact, Union minister for road transport, highways and shipping Nitin Gadkari has made this announcement at the just-concluded India Transport Logistics Summit 2017,“ roads and buildings principal secretary Sumita Dawra told TOI over phone from Delhi. “We are expecting a formal announcement any time soon. This will be a huge impetus to the expansion of the state road network and connectivity with the upcoming capital,“ she added.
 
 According to officials, the Centre has agreed to fund this project as it will be a win-win situation for both the state and central governments.The toll and other taxes will go to the Centre's kitty , while state will be equipped with a good road network.
 
 On its part, the state government has to facilitate acquisition of 8,562 .84 hectares of land in Anantapur, Kurnool, Kadapa, Prakasam and Guntur districts. The express highway will cover 45 mandals and 186 villages in these areas.
 
 The highway will be four-laned to the extent of 394 km and six-laned in 208 km.
 
 There will be two feeder highways connecting Kurnool and Kadapa. The project will take about 30 months to be completed after the state government wraps up the formalities. Presently , there is no proper connectivity between the Rayalaseema districts and Amaravati. Once this expressway takes shape, the distance can be covered with in 5 to 6 hours from those districts as against the current 12 to 14 hours by train.
 
 The expressway is proposed to be designed for a speed of 120 kmph with straight alignments. Tunnels and viaducts have also been proposed to be constructed to negotiate hilly terrains and valley sections.
 
 The Centre is contemplating covering the project under the   (NHDP) Bharatmala or Backward area and Religious Circuit (BRT).“The project mostly fits into NHDP and the Centre is also finalizing the mode of finan cing the project by means of Build Operate Transfer ( BOT), hybrid annuity or engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) method, a highly-placed official with   told TOI.
 
