SURAT: The project to develop a   at Surat has been put on fast track. The tender process for the   (MMTH) project will begin from February 15,   said here on Sunday. 

 The railway minister said, “Developing a world-class railway station at Surat is the dream of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Things are moving very fast for the MMTH project in Surat. It took me just one hour to sanction the 90-year lease for the railway land for this project.”
 
 The e-tender for the MMTH project inviting applications from interested parties will be issued on February 15. Since all the railway works are done through e-tendering process, everything happens in a transparent way, he said.
 
 The Indian Railways through IRSDC, Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation Limited (GSRTC) and Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) will jointly develop a state-of-the-art MMTH at Surat railway station on design, built finance operate and transfer (DBFOT) basis. The project broadly includes redevelopment of railway station and GSRTC bus terminal, providing east-west road connectivity and development of common facilities. The features of the project include commercial development on encumbrance free project land of approximately 2,50,000 square meter in central part of the city abutting textile and diamond markets, special development control norms with higher FSI, five towers of 61 storeys for commercial development on a concession period of 90 years. 
 
 The project will be implemented under a joint venture special purpose vehicle (SPV), which is under formation. The IRSDC on behalf of SPV has invited request for qualification (RFQ) from interested developers and operators to pre-qualify the applicants for further request for proposal (RPF) bidding stage. Around 30 national and international firms have qualified in the RFQ and RPF bidding. These companies will enter the e-tendering process now. 
 
 Navsari MP CR Paatil said, “Once the tender process is over, the work orders for the MMTH project will be awarded for the development of a world-class railway station. This is going to be the first-of-its-kind project in the country.”
 
 
