

 Step down at the  , and instead of bare walls, you will be welcomed by a world of art — Kathakali, Mohiniyattam and Kalari artistes, right at its main entrance hall. The aesthetically done vignettes of art which adorn the walls of the railway station will surely make all, especially a newcomer, soak in the culture and heritage of God’s Own country. The works, an attempt by the Railway Ministry to combine cleanliness with creativity, cover an area of 2050 sq feet, from the ceiling of the concourse area to the walls of the platform.
 
 And the railway station is just the beginning. Take a walk through the Manaveeyam Veedhi, known as the cultural corridor of Trivandrum, and portraits of cultural greats like Kamala Das, Kavalam Narayana Panicker, O V Vijayan and Kadammanitta Ramakrishnan will receive you. The works, in black and white, have been etched by a bunch of talented animators from the city.
 
 Walk further and you will reach  , where the walls have turned into a long canvas for artists to depict works that narrate the life and culture of the city from a historical perspective. These paintings are a part of Arteria, a joint initiative by the   and the  . The history of the erstwhile Travancore royal family, the animals at the Trivandrum zoo, the pongala ritual and many more fill the 30 ft-long spaces of the compound walls of  , University Stadium, Mascot Hotel and   premises. “These works give the public an introduction to art works. The walls are long canvases for artists like us to express and open up our artistic skills to the public. Two years ago, when we started off the project, it was intended for the beautification of the city. And the public has maintained it,” says Ajith Kumar G, curator of the   project.
 
 Meanwhile, for the city folk, the arty walls are an opportunity to appreciate the works of the artists. “I love art and while passing through these streets, I get a chance to cherish the creative works in my busy daily life,” says Saroj Anilkumar, a private employee from Kowdiar.
 
 
 
 
 
 Say the word ‘graffiti’, and the first place that comes to the mind of Kochiites would be Fort Kochi. The splurge of colours against the backdrop of water bodies has always been a visual treat for visitors; and post the Kochi Muziris Biennale, the number of art works on the walls has only increased. 
 
 However, as you move towards the city, the vibrant hues start fading from the walls. So, will Kochi follow the example of Trivandrum any time soon?
 P G Shivan, joint director, Department of Tourism, is of the opinion that it might just become a reality. “There are chances that we could do the same in this regard. For that, we need to find the right areas for graffiti.” He adds that wall paintings are on their agenda for their next meeting. “We will soon be conducting meetings and a workshop to discuss the plans that need to be implemented so as to enhance tourism in the city. As Kochi Metro will start its operations soon, I think the stations or its premises can be canvases for artistic ideas. Something on similar lines could also be done in the Durbar Hall area too.” 
 
 The city has seen many facelifts of late, however, wall etchings will be refreshing indeed, says, M C Joseph, secretary in charge, Greater Cochin Development Authority. He explains that beautification projects have always helped enrich cityscapes. “As part of it, we had earlier worked on the  . We also started a similar initiative in the area near the Hill Palace, Thripunithura, but because of some reasons, it was brought to a halt. I think the areas surrounding heritage spots can be put to good use by graffiti artists with timely allotment of funds. It will surely be visually appealing to passers-by. “
 
 
 
 
 When it comes to arty matters, Kozhikode has always been at the forefront, and the volunteers of the project ‘Compassionate Kozhikode’ have made sure that the city gets an artistic and aesthetic makeover.
 
 Sabith C K, a volunteer, says that the city’s previous Collector Prashanth Nair had started a programme called Manichithrathoonu, a city beautification plan in Kozhikode, two years back. “The city walls were filled with advertisements and flex boards and it was always a cause of worry among us. We started off as one of the 17 ventures under Compassionate Kozhikode project. As part of it, volunteers, which include students and working people from the district, help beautify the city during their free time.”
 
 The group has cleaned most of the prominent areas of Kozhikode, including the beach, Palayam Bus Stand and the Arayidathupalam Bus Stand. At present, their focus is on the Medical College area. “Even the paint has been contributed by the public. The project is so popular that even foreigners flocked to paint the walls this March. Thankfully, no one has dirtied the walls, once painted.”
 
 
 
 
 Graffiti has had a long history in the form of political campaigns and announcements in Kerala, says renowned artist   and one of the trustees of KMB Foundation. “Wall graffiti had attracted many artistes, especially young people, during the Biennale in 2012. It inspired many and later resonated in Trivandrum last year, when it was taken up by the government. We have always used graffiti as a medium to express ideas.”
 
 Riyas adds, “I think it should be initiated not just in Kochi, but throughout the State. Public property can be made beautiful in a lot of ways, and graffiti is just one among them. Graffiti helps break set notions about art and can bring back contemporary themes onto walls. Promoting it will also generate jobs for young artists as well and also introduce art on to different spaces.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
