NEW DELHI: After New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) issued a public notice against  , it is now planning to go ahead with legal action against it too for alleged fraud.   has claimed that a portion of the building which was given on lease to   was sold to third parties without their knowledge. This, they claim, is a clear violation of the terms of the  . The Council has issued show-cause notices to the hotel and 90 sub-licensees for violating the terms. The hotel has denied the charge.

 NDMC had issued sealing orders for a tower, which was allegedly occupied by third parties on September 9. This was later revoked by the Delhi high court. The licence had been terminated by NDMC in March this year.
 
 “As per the licence deed, it is illegal to sell properties without the consent of the Council and amounts to fraud,” said a senior NDMC official. “We will examine the receipts and seek strict legal action against the hotel. The ministry of home affairs and CBI are already investigating the matter regarding settlement of dues and realisation of revenue.”
 
 However, a spokesperson of Le Meridien said: “Sub-licence rights were created after seeking approval from NDMC. Clause 34 of the licence deed entered into by the company with NDMC authorises it to allow sub-licences for running offices etc. A list of sub-licensees have been furnished to NDMC from time to time. In fact, NDMC has in the past issued property tax notices to individual sub-licensees.”
 
 In the public notice, NDMC has threatened to disconnect electricity and water supply to the hotel over non-payment of licence fee dues amounting to Rs 605 crore. The hotel spokesperson said that according to the agreement between the Council and the hotel, no coercive measures can be taken by the former.
 
 “The demand of NDMC is disputed by the company before the hon'ble high court of Delhi and is pending its consideration. The high court had on 18.5.2001 restrained NDMC (and) its officials from taking any coercive measures, including threatening to disconnect essential amenities like water, electricity. The said order is still operational,” said the hotel spokesperson.
 
 The NDMC official, however, claimed that the high court order was a conditional one. “It was a conditional order that NDMC cannot take any coercive measures against the hotel only if the licence fee is paid regularly. But the hotel’s licence was cancelled due to non-payment of licence fee and NDMC is authorised to take strict measures, including disconnecting electricity or water supply,” said the official.
 
 
