PUNE: The proposed   at Purandar might not start its operations till 2019, but   are already trying to cash in on the Rs 2,000 crore project.

 From inserting   to  , city  , developers are trying to catch people’s attention. They say there has been an uptick in the number of queries, and also claim to have sold a few plots. 
 
 “At present, we have a 22-acre plot at Morgaon (50km from Purandar and 60km from Hadapsar). The plot has been divided into 30 smaller plots of 11 gunthas each with a price tag of Rs8 lakh. One plot has already been booked. We also sold another plot measuring three acres, at Purandar,” said a representative from Shinde Developers. 
 
 Ranjeet Developers had recently put out a colourful leaflet showing details about the plots as well as a rough map showing their plots in relation to the of the proposed Pune airport.
 
 “One of our projects, a fully-developed, seven-acre plot comprising non-agricultural bungalow plots, is located at Ponde Village (10km from the airport site). We sold 50 plots and 20-25 plots are left,” one of their representatives said. 
 
 “The area is sure to develop in the coming time and for developers and people it is an ideal time to invest,” the representative added.
 
 Sheetesh Kalyan, a busisnessman, likes this strategy. “There might be protests, but if the government is certain then the airport will be built there and surrounding land is sure to turn costly as well as investor-friendly. I will be interested but will think hard, and then invest. Apprehensions will always remain though considering the fact that the government was also sure about Chakan, and many investors were affected when the location was changed,” Kalyan said. 
 
 Dhairyashil Vandekar, an aviation expert and analyst, advised caution. “A new international airport drives the economic growth around its location. It is only natural that the area around a proposed international airport experiences a spurt in demand,” he said, adding: “However, investors must be mindful that the proposed airport is still in the planning stage and due caution must be exercised before any decision is made. To protect the interest of investors, government must come out with regular advisories updating the citizens about the status and zones of the proposed airport and its adjoining areas.”
 
