PATNA: Security was beefed up in and around the CM residence at 1, Aney Marg on Sunday after   returned from Rajgir amid political heat over the   raids on   chief Lalu Prasad and his family on Friday. The opposition BJP is mounting pressure on CM Nitish to sack his deputy Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who along with his father Lalu, mother Rabri Devi and others, has been named in an FIR lodged by the CBI in an alleged corruption case related to allotment of two railway hotels to a private firm as quid pro quo during the RJD chief’s tenure as rail minister.

 Sources said the state police headquarters deployed additional unit of rapid action force (RAF) outside the CM’s residence and tightened security at the access control through which people pass to meet the CM. Sources said more security arrangements have been made fearing protest or to avoid any untoward situation which might arise due to anguish among the RJD supporters over the CBI raids on Lalu and family.
 
 Sources said the core security of the CM is handled by the special security group ( ) commandos while the outermost periphery is manned by   Military Police-I (BMP) personnel. In addition, district police provides reinforcement at the outer circle. The CM security was also increased following announcement of prohibition in the state on April 5 last year. Then the BMP-I personnel were instructed to perform duty with complete rounds of ammunition provided to them.
 
 Two hundred additional police personnel were provided to Patna police after the CBI raids on Friday as senior police officers feared some troublemaking by RJD supporters. RJD is the biggest ally in the Grand Alliance government with 80 MLAs. The JD(U) and Congress has 71 and 27 MLAs, respectively, in the 243-member Bihar assembly.
 
 Security at state headquarters of BJP, JD(U) and RJD were also increased with deployment of state RAF and riot control vehicles soon after the raids commenced on Friday morning. The RJD supporters had thrashed some BJP supporters outside their office on May 17, a day after Income Tax department raids 22 locations of Lalu and his family for allegedly amassing benami properties.
 
