NAGPUR: For Congress, more humiliating than the thrashing by BJP at civic polls was the defeat of its star candidate  . As NMC’s leader of opposition and party’s city president, Thakre had carved a niche for himself in local politics and his downfall on Thursday came as a surprise to many. 

 Thakre did not respond when TOI contacted him post-results, but people close to him say the fight in Ward 37 was always going to be an uphill task. 
 
 In that ward BJP heavyweights Devendra Fadnavis and Nitin Gadkari campaigned strongly for their candidates leading to a high-decibel campaign. Thakre’s BJP counterpart was Dilip Diwe, brother of Gadkari-backed Purti CEO Sudhir. The latter is a close confidante of Gadkari. 
 
 Aniruddha Mande, a Congress party worker who has been associated with Thakre for quite a few years, said, “Thakre put up a strong fight in an area which had strong RSS belts. If you look at Pratap Nagar, Cement Road and Laxmi Nagar area, you will find a strong saffron allegiance there. We too had strongholds in Subhash Nagar and Gopal Nagar but in the end it did pan out as we expected.” 
 
 He added that there were multiple issues in the voter list that aggravated the problem. Another party worker, who did not want to identified agreed saying “There were a lot of bogus voters in the area and overall the voting percentage was very low. The authorities are to blame for the confusion among voters regarding the new areas and jurisdictions due to which they could not find their polling booths.”
 
 Some feel Thakre’s decision to shift to ward 37, from the earlier planned ward 38 was an error. Sources say since Praful Gudadhe-Patil was contesting from ward 38, Thakre had no choice but to shift. 
 
 A party worker close to him said, “He took it up as a challenge even though it’s an area where BJP has traditionally performed better. It was almost like Thakre was contesting against heavy weights like Fadnavis and Gadkari. Also the other members in his panel were not strong enough to make it past the finish line.”
 
 Thakre’s defeat now has bigger repercussions for the party’s future in city with the different factions expected to come into action. 
 
 
