Bharuch/Surat: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation of the Rs 4,000 crore barrage over river Narmadar near Bhadbhut village in Bharuch district on October 8. The project, officials claim, will resolve problem of salinity ingress in upstream of Narmadar and stop deterioration of surface and ground water quality. Around 1,136 hectares of land will get irrigation water through the project.

 The proposed project is located at 22 km upstream from the mouth of river Narmada. The storage and regulated release of water from Sardar Sarovar dam will address issues of salinity ingress and cater to the need of water for irrigation besides domestic and industrial use, said government officials. 
 
 The Bhadbhut barrage will be 1,663 metre long having top width of 30 metre with a provision of six-lane road connectivity.
 
  The flood protection bund wall of 24.05 km will be constructed towards Ankleshwar and 4 km on Bharuch side of the Narmada. There will be flood protection cover to around 400 sq km area covering 17 villages of Ankleshwar and Hansot talukas. The water will get stored up to to the level of 7.5 metre at the barrage which will have 90 gates.
 
 However, the project is being opposed by local fishing folks. Pravin Tandel, representing fishermen of a region, told TOI, “There are 15,000 people from 3,000 families of 21 villages who are dependent on fishing. With Bhadbhut barrage, their livelihood will be affected hence, we are protesting Bhadbhut barrage. We are not in agreement with government schemes.”
 
 But the government officials said there is provision of fish ladder for unobstructed migration of fishery species and ship lock type arrangement for allowing boat passages between upstream and downstream of the barrage to address fishermen’s concerns. 
 
 Convener, Bharuch Citizen Council, Kamlesh Udani said, “Bhadbhut barrage is answer of all issues related to water in Bharuch. It is already delayed a lot. Now, everyone is eyeing that it should complete in stipulated time. Till then state government has to ensure continuous release of 1,000 cusecs water from Sardar Sarovar dam to maintain river ecology.”
 
 
