Nagpur: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has continued to face allegations of neglecting Ambedkarites. Levelling these allegations, RPI (Athawale) that in alliance with the saffron party in central and state governments has parted it ways in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) elections before commencement of campaign.

 In some respite, Bahujan Ekta Republican Manch (BREM) led by former minister Sulekha Kumbhare has taken a decision to continue alliance with BJP on a condition of separate statehood to Vidarbha. Couple of days ago, BREM too was upset with BJP over tickets distribution and also fielded its five candidates naming it as ‘friendly fight’.
 
 BJP has entered into an alliance with two parties — RPI (Athawale) led by union minister of state for social justice Ramdas Athawale and BREM — for the NMC elections slated on February 21. The two parties had demanded 15 seats each from BJP. However, BJP has given only two seats each to RPI (Athawale) and BREM in total seats of 151. Also, the seats were given on condition of contesting on BJP’s symbol.
 
 President of RPI (Athawale) city unit Rajan Waghmare told TOI that it is a big injustice towards Dalits. “Union minister Nitin Gadkari got Dalit votes on large scale when BJP contested Lok Sabha elections in alliance. Also, Dalits elected BJP legislators in assembly elections. We were given two seats despite assurance of seven seats. Our A and B forms were removed and replaced by BJP’s symbol. We are a registered party and having our own symbol. BJP did the same injustice with us in 2012 NMC elections. Our state body already decided that we will contest on our symbol and convened to BJP but still such strange decision was taken by the saffron party,” he said.
 
 Waghmare added Dalit voters will teach a lesson to BJP in the NMC elections. “Six candidates are contesting from RPI (Athawale) symbol. We will also declare support to 15 candidates who are in fray. List of candidates will be released on Wednesday,” he said.
 
 Kumbhare said five candidates of BREM have withdrawn nominations on Tuesday. “Gadkari and CM Devendra Fadnavis talked to me on Monday. We are upset over tickets distribution but decided to continue alliance for the sake of Vidarbha. Now, BJP is not having alliance with Shiv Sena so we are expecting BJP to take steps for Vidarbha statehood. Also, we wish development of the city so supporting BJP,” she said.
 
 BJP city president Sudhakar Kohle did not respond to TOI calls.
 
 BJP’s own leaders including former corporator Shashikala Wade also alleged BJP sidelining Ambedkarites and joined Congress. BJP also facing allegations of neglecting RSS swayamsewaks in tickets distribution. Many party leaders and workers are upset and even started open demonstrations. BJP’s five sitting corporators joined Congress, Shiv Sena and NCP and in the fray against the party candidates.
 
 
