LUCKNOW: Sure of a terror angle behind the   substance recovered from the central hall of the state assembly, the investigators are focusing on   in the state which have Jammu and Kashmir links. Intelligence agencies have already started tracing the movement of sleeper cells, locating the connections which have been on their radar.

 Earlier, some of the major terror attacks in UP – including the Bijnore blast in 2014 and the Rampur CRPF camp attack of 2008 – were carried out with the help of sleeping modules.
 
 “Recovery of PETN is a confirmation of a terror angle to the entire episode,” said inspector general (IG), anti-terror squad (ATS), Aseem Arun, who is heading the probe into the case. “We will look into all the aspects of the terror angle,” he said.
 
 Senior officials said sleeping modules, which are terror cells whose members, work under cover in an area until sent into action, are very much under scrutiny primarily because most the major terror incidents in the state in the past have turned out to be the handiwork of these sleeping modules.
 
 In March this year itself, the ATS had neutralized a sleeping module in Lucknow after an 11-hour-long encounter in which one Saifullah was killed in Haji Ali Colony in Thakurganj of the state capital. Linked to the Khurasan Module of the ISIS, Saifullah was associated with the group that triggered a low-intensity blast in Bhopal-Ujjain train in Madhya Pradesh a few days earlier. The encounter brought to light the presence of a sleeping module in the state capital itself about which the intelligence agencies and the locals were unaware of.
 
 “This is not an isolated case. Major terror attacks in UP, including the 2008 Rampur CRPF camp attack was the handiwork of sleeping modules which swung into action after instructions from their handlers from banned terror outfits,” says former DGP Vikram Singh. In CRPF camp attack, three Lashkar-e-Taiba militants — Suhail and Arshad Ali alias Baba, both residents of UP, and Fayheem, a Pakistani national — were arrested.
 
 Apart from regular terror alerts, the Central intelligence agencies have reportedly shared intercept with UP Police about terror groups trying to activate sleeper cells in various cities to carry out subversive activities. In on such intercept that came after the Dadri lynching, two men were found exchanging details about sleeper cells in UP and were continuously referring to a man based in Allahabad who is known to provide assistance to people associated with terror groups.
 
 During the conversation, one man assures the other that "a few women cops honey-trapped by the outfits' men will also provide assistance" in their mission. Several communally sensitive locations across the state, including Kashi Vishwanath temple and Ramjanmabhoomi temple in Ayodhya, feature as targets in the intercept.
 
