JAMSHEDPUR: A large number of traders and shopkeepers in the Steel City are still waiting for their Point of Sale (PoS) or card swipe machines, three months after the  .

 Even as customers and buyers are increasingly adapting to the digital mode of transaction and traders are becoming persistent in installing the   the supply remains low.
 
 “When I first put the requisition for the PoS swipe machines in the last week of December, I was told that they will be delivered soon after the exchange of old currency is over but till date I have not received it despite repeated requests to the bank,” said V K Singh, who owns a travel agency in Kadma. 
 
 “The number of customers preferring to pay through PoS machines have increased in the last 90 days, making the installation of machines an utmost necessity,” he added.
 
 Piyush Gupta, who owns a wholesale grocery shop in  , regretted the fact that banks are not matching up to the demands of the PoS machines on time. 
 
 “Every time I went to the bank to enquire about the delay, I was told that my request is at some stage of approval and the device will be delivered soon,” said Gupta. He said these days retailers also prefer paying through digital means due to which the requirement for PoS has increased. 
 
 A city-based chemist in Bistupur, Sushil Khirwal, said they are using payment applications PayTm as substitutes for the PoS machines. 
 
  (SCCI) president, Suresh Sonthalia, said that trader’s delegation will meet deputy commissioner Amit Kumar on Friday to seek his intervention to address the issue. 
 
 On the other hand, officials of many banks have said that the sudden increase in demands for the PoS machine has impeded the supply chain system. 
 
 “The back room exercise such as placing business order to the device manufacturing companies, arranging logistics and linking the PoS with the banking network system is a time-consuming job and with the sudden increase in the demand for PoS, the supply side has been hit,” said Heera Harkaney, senior official, Oriental Bank of Commerce. 
 
 
