PATNA: The Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) personnel were rushed to   on Tuesday following communal tension over a report that a place of worship in the town was damaged while internet services were suspended in Arwal, Jamui, Bhojpur, Nawada, Katihar, Sitamarhi and West Champaran districts to check the rumours spreading after group clashes at several places during the last two days. At least 100 petrol bombs were seized at Arghara Chowk in Katihar.

 A company of central Rapid Action Force (RAF) allotted to the state by central government for deployment in Patna was also rushed to Arwal town where curfew was imposed after the police along with STF recovered two pipe bombs and two petrol bombs from Sahi Colony under the Town police station area on Tuesday. The police lodged four FIRs and arrested 26 persons in connection with the clash in the Town police station area over tazia and idol immersion processions during the last two days. Source said Special Task Force (STF) commandos have also been deployed at several places in different districts where incidents of communal tension were reported.
 
 A bomb detection and disposal squad (BDDS) from Gaya was called to Arwal to defuse the bombs. Police sources said that the explosives were kept to flare up communal tension. 
 
 In Bhojpur, 72 persons were arrested and 136 were named accused in a case of communal violence at Piro on Sunday. Bhojpur SP Awakash Kumar said internet services were suspended on October 1 and would continue till Tuesday midnight.
 
 In Jamui, internet services have been banned since October 1 evening and would remain so till October 4 midnight. Jamui DM Kaushal Kishore said 35 persons were arrested for the communal violence in the district.
 
 In West Champaran, internet services were suspended after violence in Ram Nagar area of Bagaha. Communal flare-up was also reported from Nawada where internet services have been suspended for the last four days. Bombs were also hurled by miscreants in the town area. Reports of communal tension also poured in from Sitamarhi, Gaya and Baruraj in Muzaffarpur district.
 
 
