Chennai: The northern part of the country may be prone to earthquakes because of the continuous movements of the plates, but there are fault lines in the south that can spell disaster too. A team from IIT Roorkee is tracking these along Tirumala hills, Palar and Tarangambadi (Tranquebar) that could be the source of future earthquakes affecting settlements within 200km radius including Chennai.

 The seismic source locations have been mapped as part of a seismic hazard assessment in south India by IIT, Roorkee for the Central Water Commission. Earthquake engineers also have to give earthquake-resistant designs to build critical sites like dams and power plants as part of the project. A website, which will be launched in early 2018, will have updated seismic hazard assessment for south India.
 
 Professor M L Sharma said after the 6.2 magnitude Latur earthquake, one of the deadliest in Maharashtra, in 1993, and the quake at Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh in 1997 measuring 5.8 on the seismic scale, there has been a perception that an earthquake with a magnitude of 6.5 can hit anywhere in south India. "If that happens, it will be similar to the Chamoli quake in UP (1999, 6.8 magnitude) or Uttarkashi (1991, 6.8 magnitude)," he said. "If an earthquake of such magnitude occurs, it may affect cities and towns up to a 100km radius," Sharma said.
 
 Sharma said a fault is a fracture in the earth’s crust where rocks on either side of it are displaced past each other. These cracks can be of any size. Identifying these faults is key to assess seismic hazard and characterise the zones. Seismic hazard is a probability that an earthquake will occur in a specific geographic area.
 
 Sharma said several parameters like the type of the source, its potential to generate strong ground motions, the amount of energy it can produce and amplify, and the type of soil determine the effect of an earthquake. 
 
 "Since the perception is that a 6.5 magnitude can occur anywhere in south India, we assign that value to a fault and calculate if that kind of motion can be expected in a city," he said. "Softer the soil, more amplification in the ground motion," he said.
 
 Geological Survey of India has published seismic hazard in a seismotectonic atlas and Bureau of Indian Standards has grouped the country into four seismic zones. Tamil Nadu falls under seismic zone two and three. Seismic zone is the average intensity at a point.
 
 The institute has developed and piloted an early earthquake warning system where sensors were installed in the Garhwal region of Himalayas. Work is underway to install these sensors across major cities in north India. Sharma said installation of earthquake warning sensors at the fault may give neighbouring towns and cities a good lead to take action and save lives before the tremor hits. "For example, if an earthquake strikes from Palar fault, then Chennai has a lead time of 10 to 20 seconds," he said.
 
 
