BENGALURU: Hit by   and its  , the   may allow   from   and the  . 

 This follows several restrictions imposed by the state government on river sand mining in the backdrop of severe environmental degradation due to rampant illegal mining across all major rivers of the state. Import of sand will help complete ongoing projects.
 
 ''Realty players are faced with acute sand shortage. Procurement of sand is a big issue and we're exploriong its import. The government will also promote M-sand to reduce dependence on natural sand,'' said law minister T B Jayachandra.
 
 But developers point out that sand shortage has led to increase in price and it costs between Rs 80,000 and Rs 1.2 lakh per truck load in Bengaluru. Imported sand would cost around Rs 1.5 lakh per truck load. It can be imported via Mangaluru port, officials said.
 
 Bengaluru, a major consumer of sand, gets it from neighbouring districts and states. In recent times, the Karnataka government has imposed several restrictions on sand mining and district administrations have been empowered to auction sand. Deputy commissioners and tahsildars are supposed to auction sand dredging contracts every year. However, when auctions do not take place regularly, there's an artificial shortage which helps the sand mafia.
 
 However, major developers are enthused by the import idea. According to them, the cost of construction will go up by Rs 40-Rs 80 per square feet if imported sand is used. "The shortfall in supply of river sand has a direct bearing on construction cost to the extent of up to 5%.
 
  There are options to import sand from countries such as Vietnam and Bhutan where availability is not an issue. However, the logistics and cost are dampeners. Locally available alternatives are better options,'' said C N Govindaraju, managing director, Vaishnavi Group
 
 V K Jagadish Babu, CMD, Sankalp Group, said: "With the government encouraging used of M-sand, most of us have switched over to it. Non-availability of river sand hasn't had much of an impact. It's better the government focuses on M-Sand.''
 
 
