LUCKNOW: A budding filmmaker from Gwalior is set to bring BSP founder Kanshiram and the latter's protégé   on the celluloid ahead of the crucial poll battle.

 Arjun Singh Maurya, 25, plans to release the film 'The Great Leader Kanshiram' nationally, starting from Maharashtra on Friday, a day before the first phase of polling in UP. The nearly one-and-a-half hour film, shot over nearly a year, throws light on the life of Kanshiram from his childhood till 1984 when he formed the  , along with Mayawati. The characters of Kanshiram and Mayawati are played in the film by   and Soma Goyal.
 
 “I was inspired by Kanshiram in my college days," said Maurya, who once worked in the production team of filmmaker Prakash Jha in 2012 when the latter produced a film called `Chakravyuh', starring  . He said the film on Kanshiram delves into the work and struggle of the Dalit leader to amalgamate the oppressed class and turn them into a robust socio-political force. The film makes special mention of the time when Kanshiram met Mayawati while she was preparing for the civil services exam.
 
 In 2013, Backward and Minority Community Employee Federation (BAMCEF), the organisation founded by Kanshiram in 1971, organised a cadre class in Gwalior, which Maurya, a Dalit, attended. BAMCEF workers would tell stories about Kanshiram's struggle and how he worked among oppressed classes with almost no resources. “The stories about the leader were so compelling that I decided to make a 15minutes documentary on him," he recalls. Maurya began his research with scholar Mayaram Raipuria in Gwalior before going all the way to Ropar in Punjab to stay with Kanshiram's family. “I stayed in the room in which Kanshiram used to study ,'' he said, adding, “As I went through the project, I realised a documentary would not suffice.I needed to convert the documentary into a fullfledged film,'' he said.
 
 Maurya also met some BSP leaders for details and also to get the documentary financed. “But that never happened," he said wryly. “I tried convincing the BSP ranks about the importance of the film but they won't agree," he added. A disappointed Maurya had almost decided to drop the project when some of his relatives and friends helped in financing the film. “Today, the film is ready for release.I am very happy," he concluded.
 
