KOLKATA: There's no short-cut to success. A positive attitude and making the right choices that matter the most. Curt but effective, this message from IPS officer Vijay Kumar, the Enforcement Directorate DGP resonated among kids gathered at Park Plaza at the Times NIE Student of the Year Award 2016-17 event held earlier this week. 

 "Students today need to have a positive attitude if they want to succeed in life. They need to make the right choices and pursuing their dreams, ensuring they stay well within the law while doing so," Kumar said. 
 
 Kumar also urged the students to always remember the contributions of their parents and teachers in making them what they become. "Your teachers have moulded you into the shape you are today," he said, adding, "This is your day, but a big applause should be reserved for your parents and an even bigger one for your teachers." 
 
 "Now you will enter the marathon of life. From rivers and ponds you are going into seas and oceans so you have to learn to handle situations on your own. All of you will be thrust into leadership roles and you will be engines of the train, not its wagon or coaches. You need to adopt the motto of service and compassion in order to connect to the community," he added.
 
 Around 100 students from schools in and around the city were felicitated at the third edition of the award ceremony by a host of celebrities including - minister of state for women and child welfare and social welfare, Dr Sashi Panja; archer and Arjuna awardee Dola Banerjee; MasterChef winner Kirti Bhoutika; Tollywood actress Suchandra Vanya; JIS Group MD, Taranjit Singh; and JIS Group VP, Sila Singh Ghosh.
 
 The awards were presented by The   in association with JIS Group Educational Initiatives. Thrilled by the overwhelming response to the event, the general manager of Park Plaza, Subrata Banerjee, said, he looks forward to hosting more such youth-oriented programmes with TOI. The awards recognized Class XII students whose accomplishments span academics, sports, conduct, leadership and service to their school and community. Student achievers were felicitated with a medal, trophy, certificate and a scholarship letter from the JIS Group. Each school was also given a recognition letter for its participation in the programme. 
 
 Panja pointed out that while there was no dearth of talent, there was a scarcity of recognition which TOI was taking care of through events like these. "Parents need to instil confidence and belief in their children that they are the best." She urged the students to "be yourself and be your own idols." 
 
 MasterChef season 5 winner Bhoutika (21) was "super excited" at being one of the award givers. She said her recipe for success could be summed up in three words - passion, learning and inspiration. "I was very lucky to have realised my passion for cooking early on and it changed my life. I learn something from everyone I meet." She hopes that more women took cooking as a career and not as a compulsion. 
 
 Sports should be given more encouragement at the school level if we want to reach greater heights in the field, feels Banerjee. "If you have the desire in you nothing is impossible," she urged the students. Vanya and Ghosh echoed her when they stressed that students should believe in themselves and be focused. "Focus not just on the goal but also on the process," Ghosh said. 
 
 "This event is a very good platform to felicitate students," said Sumona Saha, senior academic coordinator of Calcutta Girls' High School. "This encourages the students to perform even better." For Rajiv Mishra, a teacher in Saifee Hall, the event was "a place for toppers from all schools to get together and exchange ideas."
 
 
