NEW DELHI: Union finance minister   said on Saturday that India seeks to evolve from a developing economy to a developed state over the next few years, but the key challenge would be transforming itself from a tax non-compliant society to a highly compliant society. 

 In bringing about this change, he said, agencies like Enforcement Directorate have an important role to play. The nature of crime has changed but crime does exist, he said while speaking at the annual day of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) here. The FM stressed on making an example of some of the tax offenders so that the fear of consequences ensures compliance. “Once we are able to make an example of some of these offenders, I think others then will realise the benefits of compliance of law,” he said in the presence of revenue secretary Hasmukh Adhia and ED director Karnal Singh. 
 
 He exhorted a large gathering of senior ED officials to “strictly enforce the law in the endeavour to raise legitimate revenue which is in larger public interest.” 
 
 “Our target has to be to make sure that India as it evolves from a developing to developed economy also changes from a tax non-compliant society to a highly-compliant society. Once that were to happen, I think the fear of the law and the fear of the consequences will ensure compliance takes place,” he said. 
 
 The FM said there is huge amount of pressure on tax havens to yield and cooperate. “These days many of the tax havens come and tell us to certify them as a compliant jurisdiction,” Jaitley said referring to a global crackdown against non-compliant jurisdictions and restrictions imposed on tax havens. He said today technology has made it easier to detect financial crimes and agencies like the ED can use penal provisions under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act and the Foreign Exchange Management Act to make India a highly compliant society. 
 
 Money laundering, including using hawala channels, flight of capital out of the country, round tripping of funds and creation of shell companies to avoid taxes has become a very standardised practice which needs to be curbed, Jaitley said. Giving example of developed countries where violation of tax laws are rare, the FM said that the government could collect more revenue than its existing collection targets of Rs 19 lakh crore both from direct and indirect taxes. The money could be used for the welfare of the poor and for funding education, healthcare and a better infrastructure, he said.
 
