For 27-year-old pace bowler,  , the feeling of being bought by the   for a whopping Rs2 crore for the upcoming Indian Premier League (IPL) is yet to sink in. Aniket, who hails from  , lives in Jaipur and had flown down to the city on Wednesday for a brief visit to his house in Vaishali Nagar before heading to Chennai for the Vijay Hazare Trophy one-dayers, which starts from February 25. While speaking to us, this 6 foot 4 inch tall left-arm pacer said, "Everybody has been asking me this 'feeling' question. But the feeling is yet to sink in – it's a different feeling altogether. Mere dost hamesha poochhte thay mujhse, 'IPL kab khelega?' Ab jab khel raha hoon toh apni feelings express nahi kar pa raha hoon. But yes, getting selected for the   and a chance to play under   is a big thing. My dream is to play for India, and performing well in IPL will take me one step closer to my dream."

  Not many know that this isn't the first time Aniket has become a member of an IPL team; he was bought by   squad in 2013. "I didn’t get a chance to perform then," he said.
 
  
  Aniket Choudhary at his Jaipur home (BCCL/ Shalini Maheshwari)
 
 
  
 Call it fate, but when the bid came through, Aniket was bowling to Virat Kohli – who will be his captain in IPL this season. “Maine toh auction dekha hi nahi; I was bowling to Virat Kohli that time. The Indian team management informed me and congratulated me. I spoke to my family members two hours after the bid. Practice karte time main apna phone apne paas nahi rakhta.”
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 Aniket belongs to Bikaner, but in 2004, his father decided to relocate to Jaipur so that Aniket could become a professional cricketer.
 
 "I have been playing cricket since I was a child; India mein aur koi sport khela hi kahaan jaata hai? But my father didn’t like the fact that I was wasting my time in galli cricket. Unhone mujhe kaha ki agar khelna hai toh professionally khelo, galli cricket nahi. So in 2004, he decided to move to Jaipur so that I could follow my dreams of becoming a cricketer. Also, my elder brother wanted to get into IIT and Jaipur had better coaching institutes than Bikaner. Here, I enrolled in the Surana Cricket Academy. In 2008, I got to meet Greg Chappell, former Australian cricketer, who was then a consultant to the Rajasthan Cricket Academy's Centre of Excellence. He appreciated my skills. He told me, 'Do your hard work' it will pay off one day'. But during that time, I couldn’t make it to the juniors team; I was so much disappointed that I thought I would quit cricket and focus on my engineering,” he said. Aniket added, “But it was my father who motivated me. Later, I got to work with former South Africa fast bowler Meyrick Pringle, who was working with a local academy in Jaipur, which was opened by my late friend Shamsher Singh. Working with Pringle sir improved my pace and accuracy."
 
 
 
 Because of cricket, Aniket keeps travelling across the country and thus doesn’t get enough time to spend with his family and friends. When asked what he misses about the city, he said, "I miss spending time with my family. Pata nahi kaun yeh kehke gaya tha ki kuch paane ke liye kuch khona padta hai. Family se door rehna is a bit difficult. I also miss those times, when my friends and I would sit at Rambagh Golf Club. It was our adda. Ab toh mostly sabki shadi ho gayi hai. I miss driving my car; I had purchased it from my savings. I don’t miss the food as I have been following a strict diet for the past many years." When asked about his plans of spending the amount, he said, "I haven’t decided anything yet. Right now, I am focusing on my game. Better performance hogi to paisa to aayega hi."
 
 
  
  
 Aniket with his dad Vinod Choudhary (extreme left), mom Garima (second from right) and grandmothers
 
 
 
  Aniket said that there is a lot to learn from Virat. "The first time I met him was during the India-New Zealand series. I travelled with the Indian team for the two tests against New Zealand in Kanpur and Kolkata. There is so much to learn from him – the way he goes about his game, the positivity he brings along and his hunger to do well – these are the qualities that I want to incorporate within me. There is one thing that he told me and I will always remember it, 'Never be satisfied.' I have been following the same path ever since, trying to make my performance better day by day," said Aniket, who is also working in the Income Tax Department in Delhi. He got this job through sports quota. While he admires Virat, if it comes to his idols, it is Indian cricketer Zaheer Khan and left-arm Australian fast bowler Mitchelle Starc. Though Aniket is a bit disappointed because of the fact that Mitchelle left the franchise on the eve of the auction and he won’t be able to learn anything from him. "I was looking forward to learning some tricks from Mitchelle sir, but I got to know that he left the franchise. Now I am looking forward to practicing with Tymal Mills; he is said to be a T20 specialist," Aniket said.
 
 
 
 
