BAGALKOT/BENGALURU: Former chief minister B S Yeddyurappa alleged on Friday that a diary seized by the   (ED) has revealed that Rs 1,000 crore in donation was given by chief minister   to his party high command. 

 Yeddyurappa told reporters in Bagalkot that the amount was taken by Siddaramaiah's parliamentary secretary, MLC K Govindaraj. "The CM should disclose to the people whether a diary has been found and if   was indeed questioned by the ED," he pointed out.
 
 Yeddyurappa said he was ready to disclose all details on the floor of the house, but he wanted the CM to come out with them.
 
 Rubbishing the allegations, Siddaramaiah said: "If he has anything to prove on his statement, let him make it public. If not, he should retire from politics."
 
 Sharing the same view, KPCC president G Parameshwara said: "A person in a responsible position, who was also a former CM, should not make such irresponsible statements. If he has any tangible proof of the allegations, then let him make it public." 
 
 KPCC working president Dinesh Gundu Rao said such statements are being made in desperation by Yeddyurappa, as he knows he is losing ground in the state.
 
 "The I-T department conducted the raids. Let the department and ED complete investigations and submit the findings. Does Yeddyurappa have the powers to predict what the raids have yielded? How did he come to know what has been seized?" law minister   asked.
 
  HDK going soft on  ? 
 
  Yeddurappa's 21-day prison stint, after he was forced to step down as CM in October 2011, became the talking point on Friday with former CM and JD(S) leader H D Kumarswamy sympathizing with the Lingayat strongman: "I was not happy when Yeddyurappa was sent to jail, I was disturbed like any of you. How many of us have paid attention to the grounds on which he was sent to jail? No evidence was presented..." His comments triggered a discussion in political circles, with many wondering if he was extending an olive branch to Yeddyurappa, who has been his political bete noire. 
 
 
