NAGPUR: A trivial matter of two bikes, coming from opposite direction, colliding by handles led to murder of 28-year-old   at an open space near  . The body was spotted with grievous injury on the back of the head on Saturday morning. Four, including two minors including a 15-year-old, have been rounded up by cops for their involvement in the murder.

 Chauhan, who earned livelihood as painter, was heading towards Dighori naka on bike when the incident took place. He was travelling through an open space, which joins   on one side and Bhandara road on the other, when his bike’s handle collided with that of the oncoming bike on which one of the accused, aged 15 years, was travelling. The teenager was heading to his residence. Chauhan learnt to have suffered a fall from his bike after the clash. The open space, around 65 acres, is left barren and without lights. Though it had boundary walls, some portion of it was damaged during construction of a water pipe. 
 
 Police said Chauhan thrashed the teenager after getting up. The teenager, unable to match with Chauhan’s strength, alerted the other accomplices who were his friends. The four started thrashing Chauhan when he decided to flee. They chased him before pinning him down. Another 17-year-old, who has been nabbed as well, struck Chauhan on his head leaving him profusely bleeding. Its learnt that Chauhan had collapsed after sustaining the hit on the head. Apart from two minors, the persons arrested have been identified as Sheikh Ajju Sheikh Nasir and Ashish Ambhone. Nasir had been arrested on an earlier occasion too for being part of a gang preparing for dacoity. 
 
 Police said Chauhan could not be spotted as the incident had taken place around 500 meters away from the road and there were no lights either. A section of the cops feels that the victim could have been saved had he received medical treatment on time. 
 
 Chauhan, residing with his wife Arti at Raut Nagar, had left home with a friend at 8pm. He had also taken Rs100 from the supervisor under whom he worked. Family sources claimed that Arti had tried to stop him from leaving home. He had also thrashed Arti for raising objection before leaving home with a friend. Police are still trying to ascertain the identity of the friend whom Arti too denied knowing. 
 
 It has also come to fore that Chauhan, a native of Bhandara, had been staying with Arti after marrying her. This was Arti’s second marriage. She already had three children from first marriage. Chauhan also had an   with another woman who is also pregnant. Family sources claimed that the other woman too had threatened Chauhan. She had come to Raut Nagar to fight with Arti and Chauhan. Her brother, who is a goon too, had threatened Chauhan.
 
