LUCKNOW: Remember the ‘Kallu mama’ Gangster in Satya, or police sub-inspector Sudhanshu in Barfi? With UP polls in full swing and riding on success of his latest film Jolly LLB in which he plays Justice Tripathi and along with other Hindi films celebrities, national award winning actor   has raised voice to protect UP’s  . 

 In an initiative taken by the Centre for Environment and Energy Development (CEED), a non-governmental organisation, film actors from UP, through a short film titled ‘I am 100% UP’, are advocating for clean UP and urging people to vote for clean environment in the ongoing elections. The movie features Saurabh Shukla, Sudhir Mishra,   and others and they are urging citizens to vote for renewable energy, healthy air and clean water for all during this election.
 
 The two-and-half minute film catches attention right from the beginning and highlights the fact that breathing UP air is like smoking 15-20 cigarettes and urges people to vote for 100% clean air, clean rivers, renewable energy, waste management, 100% UP campaign. “Everytime you vote for different issues, so this time, please vote for solar energy, clean UP, rivers and environment,’’ appeals critically acclaimed director Sudhir Mishra. 
 
 The film takes its course with actors asserting they are 100% UP, singing, ‘Sooraj se chamkega UP, gaaon-gali chamkenege; Naye iradon ke joote hum paaon me pehnenge; 100%, 100%, 100% UP (UP will glow with sunshine, in all its villages. On the wings of new aspirations, we are 100%, UP)’. Actors like Surendra Pal, Prachee Pathak, Paritosh Sand, Syed Ahmed Afzal, Brjendra Kala, Zakir Husain and Atul Srivastava are part of the film too.
 
 UP elections, the actors said are fitting platform to create a political consensus to make the state self-sustainable and move towards a society that runs on 100% clean energy, clean air, clean water and zero waste solutions. From saving rivers to healthier air and 100% renewable energy, the campaign demands include achieving at least 30% renewable energy by 2022 and 50% by 2030. Decentralised Renewable Energy (DRE) powered mini-grids are an efficient solution to the severe energy access crisis.
 
 It demands that by 2022, all towns and municipal corporations situated on river banks must have proper sewerage system. Complete ban on release of untreated sewerage in the river system.
 
 According to Ramapati Kumar, CEO and founder of CEED, the campaign urges all political parties to consider the public manifesto on environment that has been collaborated in consultation with the people and civil society groups of the state. 
 
 Rapid urbanisation and development has led to many problems in UP. The most important is climate change. According to the WHO, four of world’s 20 most polluted cities are in UP. As per the 2005 inventory, UP is the highest emitting state of India that contributes to nearly 14% of national greenhouse gases. Improper solid waste disposal has compromised quality of land, water and air.
 
 
