KOLKATA: Next time the   gets stuck inside the  , passengers may not have to make a mad rush to reach the emergency exits at the two extreme ends. The new AC rakes will now have eight more emergency exits in four coaches in the middle, to which people will be guided with the help of signage similar to those on aeroplanes. 

 The first extra emergency exits were inducted on a train on Monday. 
 
 “Each train ferries 1,500-2,000 people on an average during peak hours. In case of an emergency inside the tunnel, only two exits may not be enough to evacuate so many passengers, and the mere rush is bound to lead to a chaos. There is bound to be panic and the possibility of a stampede remains. To prevent such a scenario, the additional exits are being provided,” an official said. 
 
 So far left with no other option, Metro had to carry out evacuation through two emergency exits within the tunnel. In October 2010, a train derailed near the Central station during the morning peak hour, leading to major anxiety among passengers. So stressed some were that they complained of uneasiness and had to be taken to hospital. In another incident in June, 2014, passengers were stuck for nearly two hours between the Park Street and Maidan stations while the evacuation process was on. Some commuters fell ill. 
 
 Metro general manager M C Chauhan hoped the additional exits would provide for faster evacuation of passengers in a distress situation. The original emergency exits at the front and rear compartments will remain, while the additional ones are being built in coaches 3, 4, 5 and 6. The motorman will be the only one allowed to open those exits. “This measure is being taken to prevent any harassment to passengers. The extra emergency exits will also be a psychological boost. The ladders that are being fitted to them are called emergency staircases or footsteps. More exits will cut down on rescue period to less than half of the earlier time taken. That way, power to the third rail does not have to be switched on for too long, and normal services can be resumed sooner. As fewer trains are likely to be cancelled, loss will be revenue will be lower,” said Indrani Banerjee, CPRO, Metro Railway. 
 
 Before the new system starts, the air-conditioned rake with the emergency exits will undergo trials for about a week to check for any mechanical infringement with the ladders fastened to the rake’s sole bar. The trains that have been ordered for the East-West Metro will come with emergency exits in all coaches; passengers can step out from these exits onto a walkway along the tunnel that connects to stations. 
 
 
