KOLKATA:   skipped a Friday night party with friends and returned home early to be with his family.   skipped an invitation at a relative’s house and planned a get-together with his husband’s friends at a resto bar.

 The contrasting change in plans were made for a single cause — watch   ( ) face off against   at Bangalore in the all-important knockout match to decide who play the IPL final against the Rising Pune Supergiants this Sunday.
 
 “A group of my friends were going for pub-hopping. But I opted out and instead bought pizzas back home to watch the match with my father and younger brother. Both are passionate about KKR,” said Chatterjee, who works at a multinational firm in Kolkata.
 
 Meanwhile, Banerjee and her husband were at Camac Street, catching live action on a giant screen beside the dance floor at a bar. “I could not be part of a boring invitation when KKR was playing such a crucial match,” she said.
 
 The cheer, however, soon lost out steam as KKR started losing wickets in a hurry, losing half of their side in the seventh over. Young guns Ishank Jaggi and Suryakumar Yadav provided the much-needed calmness to the team taking the KKR get past their previous lowest total of 67 (against Mumbai Indians in 2008).
 
 The two switched between aggression and patience throughout their 56-run partnership till Jaggi ( 28 off 31) was picked up by Mumbai spinner Karn Sharma, who had a fabulous night, picking all four big wickets. Yadav (31 off 25) was out soon and KKR finally managed to score only 107, their fifth lowest total ever. Incidentally, four of them came against Mumbai Indians.
 
 But prior to the heartbreak on Friday, the action had shifted from the dance floor to the television screen at major party places in the city. At Irish House in Quest Mall, all the KKR matches have drawn large crowds. Similar scenes have played out at Godfather in Deshapriya Park. “The response was not very warm in the initial stages of the tournament. But as KKR’s performance picked up, it renewed the interest among fans,” said a representative of Godfather. The dance floor at Underground on AJC Bose Road, Myx and M Bar in Park Street looked forlorn but the space in front of the big television screen was a contrast.
 
 At M Chinnaswamy stadium, KKR was welcomed with the usual fan support they had received the last night against the Sunrisers, with the crowd sighing and visibly upset as KKR lost one wicket after the other. KKR co-owner Shah Rukh Khan was visibly upset as he stood holding the second-tier railings of the members’ area, at times waving at the crowd but with a glum face and the usual smile missing.
 
 
