GAYA: Even as the Gaya MP Hari Manjhi’s demand for additional flight on the   route has not found favour with the civil aviation ministry, the  , in a surprise move, suspended booking tickets on this route for March 1 onwards travel.
 
  The AI operates a flight (433) on the Gaya-Delhi route in the afternoon, the only air link between the seat of Buddha’s enlightenment and the national capital. After taking off from Gaya, the flight stops at Varanasi.
  
  Confirming the suspension of passenger booking, a Bodh Gaya based IA official said it does not mean withdrawal of services from the Gaya-Varanasi-Delhi route. The official attributed the decision to the proposed recarpeting of the Varanasi airport and the airport’s non-availability for landing and take-off for the better part of the day.
  
  The airline official said the matter is likely to be sorted out within a week. Allaying apprehensions, the airline official said some way out will be find out by rescheduling the flight and, if need be, Varanasi can be skipped to make it a direct flight between Gaya and New Delhi.
  
  Sources say on account of the proposed repair/recarpeting of the Varanasi airport, the runway at Varanasi will be available only for six hours (6-9am and 6-9pm). For 18 hours, the airport will display notice alerting aircraft pilots against hazards.
  
  Refusing to comment, Gaya airport director   said he has nothing to do with the internal management of the airlines. All he can say is that the Gaya airport runway will remain available to AI flights and it is for them to decide whether or not to operate it. He has not received any formal communication from the airline in this regard, said Kumar.
  
  Expressing concern over the suspense caused by the AI’s decision to stop passenger booking, Sanjay Singh, general secretary of the  , said the hospitality business was already in trouble on account of the prohibition and note ban and it cannot take another assault in the form of flight withdrawal. Singh requested the Air India management to resume booking and make additional flights available on this route.
