Kolkata: Last December, the world premiere of documentary ‘1971 India’s Finest Hour’ was held in Kolkata for an audience that included governor Keshari Nath Tripathi. But news of this has left members of the local Central Board of   Certification feeling awkward since the film was submitted for certification only on March 27 this year. The rules state that no screening of any uncertified film/documentary can be held in a public place. 

 CBFC has reiterated that if a venue is a public place, including a film school or cultural centre, a censor certificate is mandatory. Two years back, the screening of Jul Mukherjee’s ‘Jai Shree Ram’ was stalled in Berhampore due to the absence of a censor certificate and this March, Ashish Avikunthak’s uncertified ‘The Churning of Kalki’ was stopped from being screened at a gallery. 
 
 Ajoy Mahmia, regional officer, CBFC Kolkata, said, “Without certification, no public screening can be held anywhere. We have received the application for certification of ‘1971 India’s Finest Hour’ and have taken up the matter.”
 
 Most filmmakers have insisted that such a rule regarding public screening needs amendment. They also highlight that though CBFC is tough about public screenings, uncertified films can always be uploaded on YouTube. Certification rules do not apply there. So, while the same film needs to go through cuts before public screenings, they can be shown uncut on YouTube.
 
 Producer of the documentary Pradip Kumar Chopra said, “We have applied for the censor certificate and are expecting to get it in the next 10-15 days.”
 
 On being asked if he was aware that without a certification, a public screening of the documentary shouldn’t have been held, Chopra said, “I know that an uncertified film can’t have a public screening. But in this case, it is the production house screening its own film on its own premises. Why should there be any problem there?” 
 
 However, questions have been raised since this screening was publicised as a world premiere and had also invited the governor for viewing. The footage of the world premiere is also available on YouTube.
 
 Chopra said rules that are detrimental to the growth of the industry should go. “Even the laws have to change with the times,” Chopra said.
 
 
