"Papa, why are so many people here?” asked 11-year-old Vyoma curiously. “They are waiting for some VIP’s arrival, beta,” answered 50-year-old Deepak Malwankar with eyes fixed on the exit gate of the arrival lounge at Shamshabad airport waiting to receive Vyoma’s elder brother.
But the crowd of nearly 200 — comprising fellow cricketers, fans, friends and family members — was waiting for the homecoming of Indian women’s cricket captain,  . The atmosphere was jubilant as students with their quintessential satchels, free-trolley-service guys, few cops, aam janta and an army of tracksuit-clad teenagers armed with posters, banners and placards that screamed, “Mithali, India’s pride”; “Bhali Mithali! Batting Bahubali!” 
 
 
 
 Every single minute seemed like an hour as the crowd swelled and the anticipation doubled. “The flight was supposed to land by 5pm, I wonder what’s taking her so long,” said  , chairman of  , looking at his watch. “We are going to take her straight to Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao’s house. He will announce a cash prize and would probably gift her a plot of land somewhere around the city,” he said. 
 
 
 
 By then Mithali’s parents — Dorai and   — had joined the gathering and were being congratulated by whoever knew them. “I am so thrilled. This was due since long and I am thankful to the media for supporting women’s cricket. No one would have imagined such a response a month ago,” Dorai said, adjusting his shirt collar as he got ready for his daughter’s arrival.
 “I don’t want to comment on the announcement by our CM as I have seen this before. A lot of such promises were made by politicians in the last decade but nothing materialised. When   was the CM, he too announced a plot of land for Mithali following excellent performance in the 2005 World Cup, but I don’t know what happened to that,” Dorai smirked.
 RSR Murthy, cricket coach for the Railways, who was quietly listening to the entire conversation, said, “i have been coaching Mithali since the time she joined the Railways and I can vouch for the girl’s commitment towards the game. No prize can match up to the magnitude of pride Mithali has brought to the country and Hyderabad.”
 
 
 
 Suddenly, the lounge echoed with drum beats. The crowd, which by then was scattered, assembled again and closed in towards the exit gate. We, too, joined in, hoping to catch a glimpse of the poster girl of Indian cricket. An anxious silence gripped the gathering, no one spoke a word as everyone kept looking towards the exit. One, two, three… and out came actor   in a light pink hoodie. 
 The TV journalists forgot why they were there for a second and ran towards Abhisekh, requesting for pictures. The actor, who was visiting the city for a wedding, humbly refused and was escorted out of the waiting area. While all of this was happening, BJP MP  , who too was visiting Hyderabad on Friday, quietly sneaked out, eluding many watchful eyes. 
 
 
 Another 15 minutes passed, but there was no sign of Mithali. Anxiety was at its peak when the Hyderabadi girl finally shuffled out of the exit gate and the crowd erupted. Chants of “Ïndia… India…” filled the arrival lounge as the crowd pounced on her. With a smile on her lips, Mithali embraced her parents and was garlanded by her well-wishers. All the security arrangements deployed to maintain order went for a toss as the crowd circled Mithali requesting for autographs, selfies and hugs.
 She tried to oblige as many requests as she could. “It’s great to be back among my own people. Though I had expected such a reception, this still seems unreal. I never thought so many people will turn up at the airport. It’s a great feeling, but I am also a little nervous. I want to speak to everybody, but I guess that's not possible now,” she said before getting into a waiting car and heading out.
 
 
 Vyoma was one of the many who didn't get to meet her cricketing hero. As the atmosphere in the arrival lounge returned to normalcy and people went about their business, she looked up at the giant TV installed in the waiting area. It was showing highlights of the India-West Indies match during the playoffs of the recently concluded ICC Women’s World Cup and Mithali was on the crease batting on 50 off 52 balls. “Just a month ago, I didn’t know anything about women’s cricket. But today I can say with my hand on my heart that I am fan of Mithali Raj, a humble Indian cricketer and a class leader,” she said as she held Deepak’s hand and walked towards the exit. 
 We couldn’t agree more. Mithali returned home to Hyderabad not just as the highest scorer in women’s cricket but as the pride of Telangana. 
 
 
