NEW DELHI: You will find   surfing on the waves near Bali's Mentawai Islands or skiing on the slopes of the Alps and Sierra Nevada. Or maybe, just enjoying a game of   with sister Emma, who plays on the Ladies European Tour, and brother Miguel at his home stop of the Canary Islands. Otherwise, this swinger is seen flexing his muscles on the courses of Europe and US.

 Last year was a revelation for the Spaniard as he rose from the fringes of the World Top 100 to No. 26. Although the 32-year-old from Las Palmas could not manage to lift a trophy, he came close to breaking the barrier many times.
 
 “It involved reaching some of my goals, playing in the Masters for the first time - I was the leading Spanish debut player ever. I enjoyed my experience in the Olympics very much. I was running third with nine holes to play. Unfortunately I finished fifth, but still a great performance. It was my Ryder Cup debut too and I came out of it undefeated... two and a half points out of possible three and I had to go up against   and Patrick Reed in their full flight. My good friend Sergio Garcia and I fought back and got a vital half point on Saturday morning. Even though it was a bittersweet experience to lose, I developed bonds and friendships within the team there for life.”
 
 And the catalogue of near-misses? “I came close to a number of wins throughout the year,” he added. “I finished second in Qatar Masters, got beaten by   on the last in the Dubai Desert Classic. Also led the Hong Kong Open from start to finish and lost on the last hole unfortunately. Led in America with some very high finishes - fourth in Shell Houston, third in the match play defeating Rory McIlroy in the semis and also led the Wyndham Championship in the States. I hope that another win will come soon and I'm very excited if that win comes at the Indian Open. I need to put myself in contention.”
 
 Memories of leading at DLF Golf & Country Club which will be hosting this year's US$1.75m Hero Indian Open is fresh although his exploits came at the   course and not the new Gary Player exclusive. “I can recall it very well. I want to do better this time and renew friendships that I made in India.”
 
 Flying in from  , where he finished T-38 at the WGC-Mexico Championship, he expects to shake off the jetlag swiftly. 
 
 “Obviously I have high expectations. I want to give myself a chance and I understand that won't be an easy task. There are some Indian players led by Anirban Lahiri and a wealth of talented players coming up through the ranks. And of course, you have players from the European and Asian Tours who are used to the conditions.”
 
 At the 2009 Austrian Open, he shot 12 under 60 in the final round to win and he continued the Spanish tradition at the 2012 Dubai Desert Classic. “It was very special beating a world class field including Rory. But golf is a very humbling sport and it makes you stay grounded,” he admits, as he begins his quest for a third European Tour triumph. You never know what this week brings but Rafa is up for it.
 
