This week, yet another Goan art masterpiece will disappear forever from our collective sight, possibly never to be seen again in public. This is a superb portrait in oils by Antonio Xavier   (1870-1935), who left his native home to achieve significant success in the first decades of the twentieth century in colonial Bombay (now Mumbai). Out of nowhere, a haunting and lovely painting of a soulful visaged working man surfaced at the Schuler auction house in Zurich, Switzerland. It is a very fine work from the period where this important Indian pioneer was at the height of his skills (during when he was praised as ‘Rembrandt of the East’). But just as abruptly as it has come to our attention, and long before anyone can properly assess its value to art history, it is to be sold on September 20, and will vanish back into private hands.

 This particular artwork has an estimated value of 4,000-6,000 Swiss francs, but recent history indicates it will sell for multiples of that amount, probably closer to Rs 15 lakh. That is much less than similarly important paintings by his countrymen and successors in the Mumbai art world, Vasudeo Gaitonde and Francis Newton Souza, whose works routinely sell for dozens of crore rupees, and millions of dollars. But, whether bargain or exorbitant, all these paintings are stunning landmark achievements of a single cultural world view that evolved over generations in  , which has also produced a string of other exemplars like Angelo da  , and today’s irrepressible nonagenarians Laxman Pai and Vamona Navelcar. It is astonishing to note that these extraordinary representatives of a living tradition remain almost entirely ignored and unknown in their own homeland.
 
 To be sure, there is a fine, jewel-like little gallery of outstanding Trindade paintings on display at the premises of Fundacao Oriente in Panaji. It is entirely to the Lisbon-based NGOs credit that these marvellous works are on permanent display all year-round, and accessible free of charge. Every Goan should (but very few do) get to know these milestone paintings, including a sombre monochromatic self-portrait, a moody and beautiful depiction of the Trindade family studying by lamplight, and the eye-popping, lush extravaganza that is Trindade’s spectacular gold-medal-winning painting of his wife. It is true most of the oeuvre of this artist is dispersed, and the major collections are elsewhere (one is in Delhi), but at least the residents of Goa have the chance to see something from the state’s peerless art legacy.
 
 Precisely because of the ignorance and neglect of successive Goa administrations, as well as insensitivity and lack of education of the state’s economic and cultural elites, almost no one realizes this little sliver of the Konkan coastline has long functioned as what the critic and curator Ranjit Hoskote calls “an invisible river” that profoundly enriched the world of Indian art. Thus, the first major retrospective of Vasudeo Gaitonde’s work took place in the Guggenheim in New York, and it is impossible to view a high-quality Souza painting in Goa, but excellent examples are on permanent display in great museums in Delhi and London. Angelo da Fonseca’s widow Ivy saved the magnificent archive of his paintings for Goa, and bequeathed them to the Xavier Centre of Historical Research (XCHR) in Porvorim on the strict condition they would always be displayed. But that promise has been tragically broken.
 
 This yields possibly the strangest cultural contradiction in the world. India’s smallest state produced an unqualifiedly magnificent string of artists throughout the twentieth century (and continues to do so), but almost no one has heard of any of them, let aside seen the paintings. Imagine a Bengal that has never heard of Rabindranath Tagore, or an Italy that wilfully forgets Michelangelo. There is no excuse for this stubborn forgetfulness, not in a state as well-off, as highly educated as Goa. It is a real criminal offence that generations of children grow up, and then raise their own children, without knowing or understanding the artistic flowering of their own culture that has taken place for so long, with such spectacular results.
 
 It is painful to recall that so many artists have offered their works to Goa over the decades, only to be rebuffed. It aches just as much to witness the misplaced priorities of the current crop of so-called leaders in the state, who climb eagerly all over each other to appropriate and squander thousands of crores of rupees on scam infrastructure that no one wants or needs (and will clearly be detrimental), while crown jewels of Goa’s art tradition are bought and sold far away, without a hint of a chance of being secured for the benefit of future generations. This week it is Trindade who serves as stark reminder that no place does less to remember and honour its own greatest sons and daughters.
 
 (The writer is a photographer and widely published columnist. Views expressed are personal.)
 
 
