CHENNAI: Despite the wide range of smartphones available today, functional benefits are still making the quintessential feature phone an attractive buy. Almost 85% feature phone users do not intend to switch to smartphones on their next purchase, according to a recent study conducted by   (MMA) and  .

 This has clearly busted myths about the feature phone market in India, and indicates that their functional benefits combined with durability, battery life and ease of repair are still drawing consumers. Feature phones still account for 55% of total handset shipments in India.
 
 “India is still an anomaly compared to other markets when it comes to basic phones. As per our study, 75% of feature phone users were from upper   (socio-economic classification) - middle class section of the society, unlike popular belief that these phones are used only by rural sections,” said Preeti Desai, country manager, MMA.
 
 Lower SECs, as defined by the New Consumer Classification System (NCCS), the system used to classify consumers in India, constituted just 25% of users, the study found. The transition from smartphone to feature phone has not happened at expected pace due to lack of vernacular language support and non-satisfactory battery life in entry-level smartphones, said Shobhit Srivastava, research associate with  . Over 90 brands sell feature phones in India with Indian makers like  ,  ,   and   contributing 57% of total shipments, according to data from the research firm. 
 
 
  
 “With a smartphone, it is one too many clicks. And it is not as if feature phone users do not access the internet,” Preeti said. “Data from the study shows that these users spend more money on their mobile plans with average revenue per unit (ARPU) almost 20% higher than the national average,” she said. Mobile manufacturers like Lava and Intex see value in this segment. For Intex, the feature phone business has been growing consistently. The company, which offers over 60 models, sold more than 19 million feature phones in 2015-16.
 
 “Companies are also focusing on ensuring that feature phones are equipped with new technologies. “The launch of 4G (VoLTE) - capable feature phones will surely aid the growth of feature phones in 2017,” added Srivastava.
 
 Nidhi Markanday, director and business head, Intex Technologies, said, “Extending services like e-payments and banking through 4G on feature phones could be incentive enough for these users to stick to feature phones.”
 
 
