JAIPUR: The  , who had initially undergone treatment for   in the ICU of Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital, to Medanta,  , has once again brought to the fore the many serious issues facing the most important public health facility in the state.

 With over 250 doctors, 650 nurses and 6,000 beds in 43 wards, the SMS Hospital is an institution that caters to the critical medical needs of a vastly impoverished populace.
 
 Not surprisingly, the hospital is facing a host of issues that have become counterproductive to services rendered by it.
 
 The ICUs, for instance, have become death traps due to the prevalence of superbugs. Only one or two antibiotic drugs are now effective against these superbugs. If they also begin to fail, it would become difficult for doctors to treat patients.
 
 Superbugs, which are micro-organisms that cannot be destroyed using multiple antibiotics, are now common in ICUs of hospitals, be it government or private.
 
 A meeting to address the issue was held by doctors from SMS Hospital and experts from other private hospitals in June. They spoke of the immunity of bacteria (superbugs) to drugs in ICUs and pointed out that the 18 most effective antibiotic drugs had now completely useless against superbugs. Only one or two drugs are now of any use.
 
 The meeting was attended by Dr Raja Babu Panwar, vice-chancellor, Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS); Dr VM Katoch, former Secretary, government of India, and director general, ICMR; Dr Rajeev Soman, ID specialist, Hinduja Hospital, Mumbai; Dr Chand Wattal, chairman, microbiology department, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital; Dr Hemant Malhotra, senior professor, department of medicine & head, division of medical oncology, RK Birla Cancer Centre, SMS Medical College Hospital; and a cross section of senior clinicians and microbiologists from leading hospitals in Jaipur.
 
 The discussion was driven by key issues and action plans laid out in the Jaipur Declaration on Rational Use of Antimicrobial Resistance and the National Plan on Antimicrobial Resistance, issued in April 2017, coordinated by the ministry of health and family welfare.
 
 The emphasis was on patients being frequently affected by septicaemia or infection of the blood. Patients who are admitted to ICUs for treatment for health ailments such as heart attacks end up fighting septicaemia or other drug-resistant hospital acquired infections.
 
 In the case injured commando Singh, SMS hospital administration had clearly said that they were shifting him as he was diagnosed with septicaemia and responding poorly to drugs.
 
 He was admitted to the hospital between June 24 and 25. On June 27, the hospital administration had issued a medical report, which did not show any sign of septicaemia. But, on July 7, after staying in the hospital’s ICU for almost 14 days, he was shifted to Medanta after he responded poorly to drugs for treating septicaemia, which is had contracted during his stay in ICU.
 
 According to health experts, a prolonged stay of over 10 days in ICUs is quite risky for patients as they may get infected by superbugs.
 
 “If a patient remains on ventilator support for more than 14 days, there are chances of him getting septicaemia due to the invasive ventilator support. When a patient is on ventilator support, we take out tubes from his nose or throat to give him relief and to minimize chances of septicaemia. To continue the treatment and to prevent patients from septicaemia, we conduct tracheostomies for prolonged respiratory support,” Dr Hemant Malhotra, senior professor of medicine and head, division of medical oncology, SMS Medical College, said.
 
 The treatment of septicaemia is a challenging task for doctors, particularly because only seriously ill patients are admitted to ICUs. When the infection by superbug spreads to blood, it’s called septicaemia. The most important challenge in ICUs the world over is to adopt strategies to treat such patients.
 
 It is the need of the hour for clinicians and microbiologists to come together to address and resolve current issues and future risks rising from resistance at a time when new molecules are becoming rarer. According to experts, an integrated team is needed to help develop a better understanding of root causes, effective solutions by bringing together vital information on changing infectious disease dynamics and responses to antibiotics used.
 
 Expert Speak:
 
 Dr Deepak Yaduvanshi, head & consultant pulmonologist & intensivist, private hospital:
 
 “Superbugs can now be found in any ICU of a hospital. They could be in various bacterial forms. The discovery of antibiotics in the 20th century marked the watershed in the treatment of infections. However, the organisms countered this change effectively by becoming resistant and difficult to treat in intensive care units (ICU), resulting in the emergence of multidrug resistant superbugs. Recent reports of worldwide spread of multi-resistant New Delhi Metallo Beta Lactamase (NDM-1) producing enerobacteriaece have serious implications. These are highly resistant to most antibiotics except Colistin and Tigecyline. Since there are hardly any new antibiotics in the pipeline we are facing a grim situation.”
 
 Dr Virendra Singh, former superintendent, SMS Hospital, and editor-in-chief, Lung India journal
 
 “Death rate in septicaemia patients is very high globally. But the knowledge on factors causing death is limited. Our journal has published an original study. It looks at factors predicting death of septicaemia patients. In a hospital, out of 80 septicaemia patients admitted in an ICU, 54 died. Four important factors were identified as predictors of death in patients with sepsis. At the time of admission if a patient has less than one lakh platelet count, chances of death are high. Similarly, high levels of a blood substance called CRP predict high mortality. Ventilator is a very important predictor of death. In a particular case, out of 56 patients of sepsis who required ventilators, only eight survived.”
 
 Dr Adil Aziz, associate professor (general medicine), SMS Hospital:
 
 “The emergence of superbug is probably a consequence of human behaviour. These multidrug resistant bacteria pose a great threat due to large number of deaths and disease caused by them and limited options for treating infections. The rising graph of drug resistance is presenting a big challenge for healthcare providers. Widespread and irrational use of antibiotics by doctors as well as patients contributes to bacteria developing resistance. Sometimes, physicians prescribe antibiotics on requests by patients. Many physicians lack professional knowledge or are overly cautious for medico-legal reasons. One third of the people believe that antibiotics are effective for common cold and 22% people do not finish the course of antibiotics primarily due to the fact that they feel better (varying from 10% to 44%, depending on the country). Suboptimum antibiotic concentration in critically ill people increase the frequency of antibiotic resistant organisms. Poor hand hygiene of hospital staff also increases the spread of resistant organisms.”
 
 
