PUNE: The   on Wednesday booked a   from Karvenagar and two accomplices for   and her three friends to the tune of Rs2 lakh.

 The complainants alleged that the suspect promised to help them get jobs in a leading software company. The 25-year-old woman had been on the hunt for a job in the IT sector in Pune. In February this year, she sought help from the suspect’s job consultancy firm. 
 
 “He had promised her a job in a leading software company,” said inspector Prakash Khandekar of Warje Malwadi police.
 
 According to Khandekar, the suspect arranged interviews of the woman and her three friends at the company. “After the interview, they were selected by the company and were also given the appointment letters,” Khandekar said.
 
 After their selection, the suspect took more than Rs2 lakh from the four jobseekers as a fee for his services. “They transferred the amount online into the suspect’s bank account,” Khandekar said.
 
 However, in August, the complainant and her friends received communications from the company cancelling their appointments. “Following this, the woman and her friends approached the suspect and demanded their money back. The suspect returned a portion of the amount, but Rs2 lakh is still pending with him,” Khandekar said.
 
 When he started avoiding the complainant and her friends, they lodged a complaint with the police. “We are probing the case from different angles,” Khandekar said. “Along with the suspects’ involvement in the duping, we are also probing whether anyone from the company was involved in this racket,” Khandekar added.
 
 Lately, many unscrupulous persons have been taking advantage of unemployed youth. Recently, the Kondhwa police had booked an unidentified man for duping a 25-year-old man to the tune of Rs1.48 lakh on the promise of helping him secure a job with a private airline company. 
 
 The suspect had accepted the money through e-wallets and online transfers. Once he realized he was duped, Saad Kazi of Omkar Garden in Kondhwa lodged a complaint at the Kondhwa police station.
 
 In August, the cybercrime cell arrested a 33-year-old man from New Delhi for duping two software engineers of Rs1.20 lakh on the promise of jobs.
 
 
