CHENNAI: The unaccounted investments of former transport minister  's brother   could be much more than what it was initially estimated to be. 

 The I-T raids on nine finance firms linked to him in and around   has so far revealed `100 crore in unaccounted investments, said I-T sources.
 
 The searches were held for three days continuously. 
 
 Some of the finance companies, run by individuals close to Balaji and his brother did not have any name or address. Some functioned out of houses, even without name boards. Ashok Kumar has been summoned by the I-T department as the sleuths have recovered documents linking him to some of the investments. 
 
 “Some of the finance firms never kept account sta tements or cash on their premises. They were kept in safe custody at the residences of their close associates or friends. That is one of the reasons why the raids continued for three days,“ a senior I-T official told TOI.
 
 Ashok Kumar has also stood surety for a loan given by a finance company to the tune of Rs1.5 crore. One of the finance companies is linked to a local   leader,  . 
 
 He went underground initially and kept the I-T officials waiting for a whole day before turning up to cooperate in the inquiry. He was quizzed for several hours after the officials stumbled upon many documents from an isolated room on his rooftop.
 
 “In one of the firms, the promoter had opened bank accounts in the names of his employees and had deposited huge amount of unaccounted money in them to convert it into white. A chartered accountant was also involved in this. We seized some documents from the office of the CA.
 
  We will soon summon him for further inquiry, “ said the official.
 
 Under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988, the department will confiscate all the benami properties. “We are collating the documents to know the owners of each asset. Some are in the form of land and buildings and a few others are investments made in textiles and garments. The ownership pattern and source of investment of those firms will be investigated, “ said the official.
 
