LUDHIANA: A day after TOI highlighted how   were being issued by scamsters to   by   who made high value   into their accounts after demonetization of Rs 500 and Rs 1000 notes, more such cases have come to light from Ludhiana and other cities.

 A steel trader of Millerganj has claimed to have received this notice. He ignored it only after his accountant discovered that it was fake. Sources in the I-T department disclosed that a similar case has been reported in Chandigarh where a businessman based in Sector 22 also received such a notice. He found the notice fake after he consulted his lawyer and reported the matter to the I-T authorities.
 
 Modus operandi
 
 The scamsters would first send a notice to people, threatening action against them. If they fall into that trap, the scamsters would strike a deal by demanding money while assuring that no action would be taken against him if he pays bribe.
 
 In most of the cases, which have come to light, the notice has been sent in the letter by posing as anonymous deputy director of income tax department and the recipient has been accused of evading tax during demonetization.
 
 The letter, that also carried a mobile phone number, also said that if the recipient does not contact the sender of the notice, he would be liable for action. However, ever since the TOI first reported about the scam, the number of the scamsters 9415510402 has been found switched off.
 
 Sources meanwhile said the involvement of an insider or professionals who have good connections within the department cannot be ruled out as someone who has inside information can only have access to the data of people, who deposited huge amounts of cash or were raided during demonetization.
 
 In the recent case as well, a similar attempt was made by the scamsters to con another Ludhiana businessman who was raided by I-T department for depositing huge amount of cash into his accounts.
 
 I-T officials are apprehensive that the scamsters might have duped more number of people, many of whom could be hesitant to come out and complain. In one of the cases, reported on Monday by TOI, the businessman had decided not to file any police complaint in the matter
 
