BENGALURU: The Karnataka government has decided to intercede in the state’s airlines business by asking more countries to operate direct flights to Bengaluru.

 In an effort to up the ante to attract more business, be it in tourism or information technology sector, the government has taken the diplomacy route by approaching local consulates and is trying to lobby for a direct flight to the nation’s IT-BT capital.
 
 “We have approached a few consulates located in Bengaluru to try and lobby for direct flights from other countries to the city. With the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) being the third busiest airport in the country, we expect diplomatic efforts from our end to increase footfall to the state,” said tourism and IT-BT minister  .
 
 According to the minister, the state has already approached few nations like Australia, Israel and Japan which have consulates in the city for the purpose of pushing their national carriers and private airlines to operate direct routes.
 
 “So far, we have received a positive response from most countries and expect concrete results in future. Australia has even invited us for an international conference in their country to hold direct talks with Qantas, their official national carrier,” said  . The talks are for a direct route from Adelaide to Bengaluru.
 
 Talks are on for a direct route from Tel Aviv, Israel to Bengaluru. 
 
 The government has also pinned hopes on a direct route between San Francisco in the US and Bengaluru, considering the two cities have signed a sister-city memorandum of understanding (MoU). However, international airlines are still concerned about starting operations as most are sceptical of whether direct routes would be able to attract fliers.
 
 According to  , president of airport operations for Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL), there are several opportunities for other countries to operate direct flights to the city. “However, there’s also a demand to incentivize airlines operating direct flights to the city. The world over, there is a general proposition by local governments of giving incentives to the tune of $2 to $5 million dollars for the first year as the airlines aren’t confident of generating revenue immediately after starting these direct routes. Once the routes are settled, these incentives can always be withdrawn,” said Marar.
 
 Marar said the BIA has, in fact, invested in an entire division for developing business models for such point-to-point flights. The Karnataka government, too, is believed to have taken an initiative to push the incentive proposal, but the same is stuck with the finance department for approvals. 
 
 BIA personnel say there’s also concern about India’s official carrier, Air India, not investing much into operating flights from Bengaluru. “While   has got a 16 per cent marketshare across India, in Bengaluru it has only eight per cent. This shows there has been a lack of interest on the part of the nation’s official carrier in investing in Bengaluru routes,” said a senior BIA personnel. 
 
 The BIA is all set to sign an MoU with the state government to further boost the possibilities of increasing footfall at KIA.
 
  Meanwhile, Kharge has sought an appointment with Union minister for civil aviation  , seeking support for the Karnataka government’s initiatives on having direct routes to Bengaluru
 
 AERIAL VIEW
 
 Direct passenger flights out of India (from B’luru): 24 
 
 Direct freight airlines out of India (from B’luru): 8 
 
 Busiest international routes from KIA:
 
 Bengaluru-Frankfurt
 
 Bengaluru-Singapore
 
 Bengaluru-Abu Dhabi
 
 Bengaluru-Kuala Lumpur
 
 Source: BIAL
 
 
