SURAT: Union minister of state for road transport and highway, Mansukh Mandaviya, made it clear that Goods and Service Tax (GST) will not be abolished on fabric, but said that the GST council may think over simplifying its structure.

 Mandaviya, who met the leaders of Textile GST Sangharsh Samiti (TGSS) and heard them for almost an hour on Friday, suggested that textile traders should form a five-member committee and he will help them meet the GST council members to discuss the simplification of the new tax structure at New Delhi. 
 
 “I have been sent by PM   to hold talks with the representatives of Surat’s textile sector. I have heard your representations and now I will go back and organise a meeting with the GST council for some amicable solution,” the junior Union minister said.
 
 However, the TGSS delegation led by its convener   strongly represented that the traders’ community is against the imposition of 5% GST on MMF fabric. 
 
 Kasat stated that a sari or dress material have to pass from 17 different stages starting from grey fabric to transportation and that the traders have to pay GST at every stages of the process. It is difficult for a small trader operating from less than 200 square feet shop to file the GST. 
 
 “In a memorandum to MoS Road Transport, we have strongly demanded to abolish GST on fabric and instead keep it till yarn level. Pre-GST, there was 12.5% excise duty on yarn, which is increased at 18% post-GST. The government is already earning huge revenue, so there is no need to impose 5% duty on textile traders, weavers and processors,” said Kasat. 
 
 Earlier in the day, Mandaviya also met the representatives from the powerloom weaving sector and the leaders of diamond and jewellery industry led by chairman of Gems and   (GJEPC), Praveen Shanker Pandya.
 
 With the traders’ indefinite strike entering its fifth day, the central government had deputed Mandaviya as an emissary to listen to the issues and demands of the man-made fabric (MMF) sector. He arrived in the city on Thursday.
 
