NAGPUR: It was a sight to behold when partially blind children competed in a game of cricket. In this game requiring keen eyesight, they relied on their hearing capability to follow the sound of the special jingling ball. Their game, along with other sports events, was part of Udaan, a daylong sports meet organized by Rotary Club of Nagpur in collaboration with district social welfare department of Zilla Parishad, for   at   ground on Tuesday. 

 Partially blind and mentally challenged children played a volleyball match. Pick-and-run race, wheelchair race, softball, shot put, bucket and distance races were also held. This time, 42 schools from across Nagpur district sent selected students to the sports meet, collectively comprising nearly 700 children. The children belonged to the age group of six to 19 years.
 
 “We started our first sports meet for special children in 2011. Commonwealth Games had recently happened then. We thought why not organize Paralympic Games too? We chose Valentine’s Day because it is a day to spread love,” says Reeta Bhargava, committee member of Rotary Club of Nagpur. A magic show was helmed by Sheetal Kimmatkar, an artiste who is deaf and mute.
 
 The first part of the sports day consisted of solo sports activities while the second half focused on group competitions. Prize distribution ceremony was also held. “We provide a gift hamper to every child. Thus, they are enthusiastic to come and feel wanted. Our aim is to help specially-abled children excel in sports, whether it is medically, physically or through physiotherapy. Last year, a couple of children also went ahead and won in national Paralympic Games. We want to build their confidence,” adds Bhargava.
 
 This year, there were 70 events. They were segregated according to age and disabilities. The special children were divided into four categories — deaf and mute, physically challenged, mentally retarded and blind. Among them, children are divided into three age groups.
 
 This event was supported by  , hotel Centre Point and volunteers from of Rotaract clubs.
 
 
