PANAJI: In a bid to convince voters that it stimulated employment generation, the   government may have tried to tom-tom the achievements of the   (IPB). If recent developments are to be considered, however, the industry community does not appear convinced and has called out the government for its shoddy implementation of proposals cleared by IPB

 According to the Laxmikant Parsekar government, the IPB approved 151 industrial and hospitality projects, garnering investment to the tune of Rs 11,482.66 crore and creating employment potential of over 25,980 job opportunities for Goan youth.
 
 While the numbers may appear impressive, the ground reality is closer to, well, the ground. Sources say that just 16 to 20 of the 151 projects have managed to take off, generating only1,500 jobs in the process.
 
 “Most of the projects cleared thus far have not been allotted land. Even small projects requiring land of less than 3,000 sq m find that Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) is too slow to allot land,” said  , the oldest industry chamber in the country, in a stringent note.
 
 Delay in granting necessary approvals to industrial units plays havoc with an investor’s business plans since product delivery and market timing is vital. “If an investor can get his return on investment within the stipulated time then an investor is happy to setup in the state. But here, the board itself meets after a month and even that is often delayed. Then, GIDC takes two to three months to allot land,” Assocham’s chairman of micro, small, medium enterprise council   said.
 
 Sources who preferred to speak on condition of anonymity also questioned the rationale behind the appointment of a full-time chief executive officer if all project approvals required the chief minister’s nod. The process of awaiting the availability of the chief minister to conduct a meeting has raised concerns that the single window board was not independent in the true sense.
 
 “Translating investment intentions into formal proposals by investors and their consequential implementation is a significant issue as such timely and effective steps in this regard will further encourage the private sector to invest in Goa,” said Assocham secretary general, D S Rawat.
 
 Assocham has warned that for Goa to maintain the current workforce level of 40-45%, the state had to create at least 50,000 new jobs over the next few years.
 
 Over the next five years, about 25% of Goa’s population will fall in the age group of 15-30 years and will require suitable employment avenues. According to ASSOCHAM, public and private investment in industries grew by 22% on a year-on-year basis to around Rs 31,000 crore for 2016-17. However, over half, or 62% to be exact, of these projects remain in the implementation stage.
 
 Industry stakeholders have said that if IPB has to really live up to its tag of being a single-window clearance, with quick approvals and less red tape, then, ‘bureaucracy had to be reduced, systems simplified and time-bound clearance of stalled investment projects mandatory”.
 
