JAIPUR: Problem seems to be brewing for the   (JMC) as the firm contracted for door-to-door   collection has once again failed to implement the scheme on the ground.

 After residents, JMC’s chief executive officer (CEO) Ravi Jain too expressed disappointment over the Pune-based firm BVG India Pvt Limited’s progress. Out of 91 wards, the JMC has started   in only 30 wards. It has put a question mark on the firm’s capabilities to collect garbage from the entire city as it has proved to be a failure in maintaining   even in one-fourth wards.
 
 In the review meeting, it was discussed that the firm is not collecting garbage from half of the houses in most of the wards. Moreover, the JMC has to deploy additional resources to lift garbage from depots in wards where work has been awarded to the firm. A senior JMC official said, “In the last review meeting, mayor Ashok Lahoti and JMC CEO Ravi Jain directed the firm to start door-to-door garbage collection in new wards. However, the firm has not implemented it on ground till date.”
 
 On Friday, Jain directed the officials to remove all the existing machinery deployed in four wards of Civil Lines zone which the JMC has provided to the firm. Sources in the department claimed, “As the firm has failed to deploy its machinery, it has proposed JMC to rent out its resources including machinery. The firm does not have sufficient resources and infrastructure of its own.” Officials and public representatives are fearing they might face a massive protest from residents if garbage is not lifted on time even after paying money to the corporation. Suman Sharma, a resident of ward number 25, said, “We read in newspapers that garbage collection has started in our ward. But no one from the firm has come to collect garbage till date. Moreover, the depot is also flooded with garbage as the JMC has stopped lifting the trash after giving responsibility to the firm.”
 
 For door-to-door collection, it has been proposed that the firm will levy Rs 20 for a plot measuring less than or up to 50 square metres, Rs 80 for a plot of more than 50 square metres and up to 300 square metres. Owners who have plot measuring more than 300 square metres will have to shell out Rs 150. “The JMC is forcefully taking money from the plot owners but not providing proper facilities. The filth is lying everywhere in our society. We would protest if money is charged without providing facility,” said Mohini Kanwar, a resident of ward number 61. 
 
 
