In a few weeks from now,   will flaunt an army officer’s uniform in Vishal Bhardwaj’s ' '. Shahid had played an Air Force officer in his father’s directorial debut, 'Mausam', a few years ago. A few months later, Salman Khan too will be seen in army uniform for his home production, 'Tubelight'. On Republic Day,   looks at some of Bollywood’s mainstream artistes, their uniforms and who’s packed the most power in it!

 
 Akshay Kumar last wore a crisp white navy uniform for 'Rustom'. The flaws in its presentation were trolled on social media, but the actor was praised for his performance. His body language and the way he carried the uniform was talked about. In the past, Akshay has slipped into an army man’s shoes for 'Holiday', 'Sainik', 'Ab Tumhare Hawale Watan Sathiyon' and donned the police vardi for 'Khakee', 'Rowdy Rathore', 'Aan: Men At Work', 'Tarazu', 'Daava', 'Sabse Bada Khiladi' and 'Main Khiladi Tu Anari'. He, we’re sure, has had the maximum opportunities to slip into a vardi and knock the socks off with his performances. 
 
 
 Shah Rukh Khan started his career, slipping into a uniform for the TV show 'Fauji'. Years later, he sported a uniform in 'Main Hoon Naa' followed by 'Jab Tak Hai Jaan', Yash Chopra’s last film. It doesn’t matter whether he was saving the colonel’s daughter or diffusing bombs, SRK always impresses as a man of honour. 
 
 
 
 Whether he plays a serious cop in 'Garv: Pride and Honour', or a funny policeman in the 'Dabangg' series, Salman Khan always pulls it off in style adding more power to the role. The actor played an army officer in Heroes and will again play one in 'Tubelight', directed by Kabir Khan.
 
 
 Priyanka Chopra’s cop act in 'Jai Gangajal' was tough as nails where she kicked some ass too. She continues to do that in the West with her series, 'Quantico'. Tabu is the other heroine who’s top of the mind for blending the role of a mother and a cop beautifully in 'Drishyam'. Let’s just say she owned the role. 
 
 
 
 
 He’s an angry man on screen and when Sunny Deol screams, he’s heard across the border too. His acts as a tough fauji in films like 'Border', 'Heroes and Hero: The Love Story of a Spy' are well recalled. He’s also played a cop a couple of times in films like 'Vishwatma' and 'Tridev'. 
 
 
 Ajay Devgn has played an army man in 'LOC: Kargil' and 'Zameen'. Let’s just say he’s more inclined towards playing a cop on screen. The actor played a tough gun in 'Gangaajal' and the 'Singham' series. Buzz is that he’s likely to have another outing in the popular cop franchise. Given the track record, we hope that happens soon.
 
  
  
 
 
 Hrithik Roshan, in his career spanning one-and-a-half decades, has had a chance to don a uniform just once. He wore it in 'Lakshya', where he played an army 
 recruit who finds his true goals in life after meandering through confusions.
 
 
 Anil Kapoor played an army officer in 'Pukar', which won him plenty of praise and is among his best performances by far. He won a National Award for it too. He also played a cop in 'Shootout at Wadala', which was also liked by many of his fans. It was inspired by a real cop. 
 
 
 
 Another actor who rose to fame with a uniform was Amitabh Bachchan in 'Zanjeer'. His unfortgettable entry sequence in the crisp khakee still draws an applause. After that, the actor slipped in and out of the army and cop uniforms a couple of times for films like 'Ram Balram', 'Geraftaar', 'Major Saab', 'Ab Tumhare Hawale Watan Sathiyon', 'Lakshya', 'Deewar: Let’s Bring Our Heroes Home', 'Khakee', 'Bunty Aur Babli' and 'Kohraam'.
 
  
  
 
 
