NAGPUR: Local poachers seem to be behind the   and two sambars at a farm on   near Maharkund. Post-mortem confirmed that the animals were electrocuted after coming into contact with a wire which was tied to a 11kv line passing through the agricultural field.

 On Saturday, TOI had reported about the death of four-year-old tigress and two sambars at the farm owned by   of Khapa village on the fringes of Pench Tiger Reserve. The farm was let out to Sawalakhe, who is the main suspect and continues to be missing. 
 
 Sources present during the post-mortem, that was conducted on Saturday as per the   protocol, said that evidences found on spot suggest involvement of professional poachers. According to them, the area has been a hunting ground for poachers since many years.
 
 Maharkund is a lake surrounded by dense forest. In April 2007, notorious poacher Ganda Tularam Uikey, who was known as mini-Veerappan of the area and had killed hundreds of wild animals, died after getting electrocuted in his own trap.
 
 Those present at the spot informed that bones of various wild animals were found in a nearby perennial nullah, indicating that poaching of wild animals has been taking place regularly. Electrocuting animals by laying traps is a regular practice. 
 
 “Despite having a strong history of poaching, the area remained neglected by the forest department. Joint patrolling should have been done regularly but there was no coordination between the wildlife and territorial wing,” sources said.
 
 The tigress was identified as ‘T20’ and its litter had separated about four months back. “It could have produced three-four more litters. This is a big loss to tiger conservation,” conservationists said. 
 
 Officials will now take statements from the farm owner and other locals. Pointing out that   during rabi season has turned out to be the biggest threat to wild animals, conservationists demanded that   should launch a special drive against illegal power fencings. 
 
 In the last 12 days, one tigress, four leopards and two sambars have died in Nagpur and Chandrapur divisions.
 
 
