NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court allowed IITs, NITs, IIITs and all government-funded engineering colleges on Monday to admit students on the basis of the JEE (advanced) merit list, bringing to an end the uncertainty over the admission process.

 A bench of Justices Dipak Misra, AM Khanwilkar and MM Shantanagoudar vacated the July 7 stay order which had brought the counselling and admission process in engineering colleges to a standstill. The court had questioned the IITs' decision to award 18 bonus marks to all students.
 
 The court said that its 2005 verdict, holding that bonus marks for wrong questions could be given to only those who attempted the question, could not be applied as there was negative marking in JEE. The bench also took into consideration that around 33,000 students had already taken admission so far this year and any interference at this stage would create further confusion.
 
 The court turned down the plea of a dozen students seeking its direction to IITs to revise the merit list by scrapping the bonus marks given to all 1.56 lakh examinees who took the test. The court, however, expressed concern over wrong and vague questions being framed in the prestigious entrance examination and directed the Centre and IITs to file an affidavit assuring that such a mistake would not occur in future.
 
 “We vacate the order passed by us. We are not inclined to interfere,“ the bench said. Apprehending that some students might approach high courts over the bonus marks controversy, the bench restrained HCs from entertaining any such plea.
 
 The bench was examining the decision of IITs to award 18 bonus marks to all candidates who appeared in the examination irrespective of whether they attempted to answer these questions. The petitioners said their overall rank had gone down due to the decision and pleaded for a revised merit list without bonus marks.
 
 Around 1.7 lakh students had registered for JEE (advanced) in 2017 and 1.56 lakh appeared for the test. .
 
 Justifying its decision, IITs told the bench that the issue was examined by its expert bodies which came to the conclusion that awarding bonus marks was the only practical solution.
 
 
