BHUBANESWAR:   signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with   on the occasion of the 37th Foundation Day of the former here on Sunday. Nalco and the university will now collaborate on areas like research and development, baseline and impact assessment survey for  , industry and institution interactions, and skill development. 

 "Nalco has been emphasising on skill development as an organisation and has therefore tied up with several institutions like   (NSDC),   (NSDF) and Utkal University in an effort to create more skilled manpower. The aluminium major will also collaborate with the premier university for research and development and conduct impact assessment surveys," said Nalco chairman and managing director, Tapan Kumar Chand. 
 
 As part of the celebrations, Nalco honoured several achievers of Odisha for their contributions to different fields. The Nalco Literary Award was given to personalities like Ramakanta Rath, Pratibha Satapathy and Binapani Mohanty. Nalco Start-up award was given to Srikumar Mishra, CEO of Milk Mantra. BK College of Art and Crafts and sand sculptor Sudarshan Sahoo received Nalco Fine Arts awards.
 
  Nalco Sports awards were given to chess player Debasis Das, athlete Amiya Mallick and scuba diver Sabir Bux. Nalco also recognised the efforts of three SBI officers in promoting cashless transaction by honouring them with Nalco Digital Drive awards. 
 
 As part of the MoU, Nalco will also facilitate vocational training and provide internships to students of the university. The varsity will take up research projects on subjects that lie in the areas of Nalco's interests in the next five years, informed Utkal University vice chancellor, Ashok Das.
 
 Inaugurating a centre of excellence on skill development, set up by Nalco at Gothapatana, Union mines secretary Balvinder Kumar said, "In Odisha, Nalco is in the forefront among industries in the Skill India movement as it has imparted skill-based knowledge to more than 16,000 people last year and set itself a target of 18,000 during the 2016-17 period." 
 
 The centre of excellence will help fill the huge shortage of heavy equipment machine operators, which is likely to be around 30,000 in the next three or four years, a source said. Highlighting the achievements of Nalco, Chand said, "In 2016, Nalco has charted a strong growth of 18% in bauxite mining, the highest since its inception and a record in the mining industry. In 2016-17, Nalco will surpass its production capacity of 68.25 lakh tonnes and reach 73.25 lakh tonnes."
 
