PATNA: Bihar’s   police on Tuesday claimed to have stumbled upon an   design to target the railways in India following the arrest of three criminals who worked for a Nepali agent.
 
  “These criminals were arrested for their involvement in placing a cooker bomb on the railway track near Ghorasahan in the district on October 1 last year. They have confessed to having worked for an ISI agent,” district SP   told TOI over phone, adding one of them confessed his involvement in planting explosives to derail the   and Ajmer-Sealdah Express trains near Kanpur last year.
  
  “Fortunately, the bomb at Ghorasahan was detected with the help of villagers and defused,” Rana said.
  
  However, at least 143 passengers died when Indore-Patna Express flew off the track on November 21 while more than 40 people were injured when Ajmer-Sealdah Express derailed near Kanpur on December 28 last year.
  
  Police arrested  ,   and   from different locations in Motihari, district HQ town of East Champaran which is situated on Indo-Nepal border. Rana said the trio had received around Rs 3 lakh till now from Brij Kishore Giri for engineering train accidents.
  
  Brij is a Nepali citizen. He along with Shambhu Giri and Mujahir Ansari was arrested by Nepal police recently. “The Nepal police have shared vital information with us regarding their ISI links,” Rana said, adding the state ATS (anti-terrorism squad) and other security agencies have been informed about their confession.
  
  Rana said Motilal was earlier a Maoist, operating in Adapur block of East Champaran district. “Umashankar has at least four criminals cases against him while 12 cases are lodged against Motilal and Mukesh,” the SP said, adding investigations were on to gather information on the main handler of the gang.
  
  Sources said Motilal told police he had planted explosives on the tracks near Kanpur for derailing the two trains. “Brij had received funds from Dubai for the purpose. Brij had promised flats, vehicles and finances to produce a Bhojpuri movie to the trio arrested from Motihari,” said a police officer involved in the interrogation.
  
  Police have now launched a manhunt for two others identified as Gajendra Sharma and Rakesh Yadav, who are said to be hiding in East Champaran, the sources said.
  
  Incidentally, Indian Mujahideen chief Yasin Bhatkal was arrested from Raxaul in East Champaran district in August 2013.
