HYDERABAD: Even as a series of fatal accidents unfolded over the past few weeks, leaving residents unnerved, in more disconcerting news it has come to light that   deployed by city police are unfit for enforcement during the night. 

 Currently, the Hyderabad police uses six speed guns, Cyberabad and   police use two guns each to identify overspeeding motorists. With the 10 speed guns, police have been booking over 500 persons every day for violating the speed norms. 
 
 After the death of AP minister P Narayana’s son Nishith in a high-speed SUV crash on Road Number 36, Jubilee  , the Hyderabad police started using speed guns at night. The devices are being used at  , on the highway in Bowenpally, Tank Bund, Necklace Road, KBR Park and PVNR Expressway. Cyberabad and Rachakonda police, for their part, use the speed guns on the   (ORR), but continue to do so only in the day.
 
 While Nishith’s death has prompted the Hyderabad police to take up special drives against overspeeding vehicles, officials soon found out that the speed guns were quite useless. Owing to low ambient light and high luminance from the headlamps of vehicles, the speed guns have been unable to capture the registration plates of the offenders during the night. 
 
 “As the speed guns cannot capture violations effectively during the night, our teams have to video record violations,” Hyderabad joint commissioner (traffic) V Ravinder said. Speaking about what is being done in the matter, the joint commissioner said, “We are planning to buy some speed guns with night vision capabilities for enforcement at select stretches during the nighttime.” 
 
 In a few months, the Intelligence Traffic Management Systems (ITMS) will be implemented in the city and, as part of the project, over 60 static speed guns are to be installed at various stretches along with cameras to capture details of the   motorists automatically.
 
 Alebit without proper equipment, Hyderabad police have been crackinging down on speeding with special drive being carried out on both sides of Road Number 2, Banjara Hills, between NTR Bhavan and Jubilee Hills.
 
 On Saturday night, Banjara Hills traffic police conducted a check between 12 midnight and 3am and booked 16 offenders and seized three cars and 13 high-end bikes. 
 
 On Friday night, Jubilee Hills traffic had police conducted the check on the same stretches between 12 midnight and 2am. Police seized three cars and nine bikes for hitting speeds over 100km. “Some of the offenders were racing,” a traffic official, who was part of the special check, told TOI.
 
 Police booked all the offenders under section 184 (dangerous driving) of the Motor Vehicle Act and seized their vehicles, including a  , Volvo sedan, Honda and a Kawasaki superbike. “The offenders will be counselled at the Traffic Training Institute and then produced before court,” Jubilee Hills traffic inspector T Srinivas Reddy said.
 
