JALANDHAR: Former   minister Balwant Singh Ramoowalia, who was the first politician in India to raise issue of desertion of wives by NRI grooms and followed up several cases in  , said the recommendations by the inter-ministerial expert panel to tackle the issue—by making Aadhaar mandatory for NRI weddings—would finally provide some relief to the affected women and their families.

 “It has taken 20 years that finally a serious strategy has been devised to handle the issue. I started taking up such cases in 1997. Most of the times, I faced callous approach from the politicians but now I hope that things will reach their logical conclusion as Union minister of external affairs Sushma Swaraj has been very serious to help the victims,” said Ramoowalia, while speaking to TOI on Tuesday evening.
 
 The panel has recommended making of Aadhaar mandatory for registration of NRI marriages in Punjab, amendments in extradition treaties and providing executive powers for revocation of passports of the offenders. The panel was headed by former chairman of the   (retd)   and comprised officials of the Union ministries of women and child development, home affairs, MEA, the department of telecommunications as well as Ramoowalia.
 
 “I found that such crook grooms and their immediate kin would usually threaten the deserted brides with lengthy court procedures and would harass them. Several times they would pretend severing ties with the groom and then even serving notices would become difficult. Mandating Aaadhaar would not only help to nail such grooms but their kin also,” Ramoowalia said.
 
 “Such frauds continued with impunity as grooms and their kin believed that legal processes were so long and weak that victims would not get justice and the offenders would have their way,” said the former Union minister who was included in the panel due to his personal experience of handling these cases.
 
 “Our entire idea was to devise deterrents to such sham marriages and then to provide speedy justice to the victims,” Ramoowalia said, adding there was hope that issue would really be redressed.
 
 
