MUMBAI: A 38-year-jeweller from Kandivli who allegedly   and also fed it to his wife and two minor daughters in 2015 will now stand trial after a   rejected his bail plea on Friday. The court refuted the defence that the jeweller,  , was just a victim of circumstances and had no intention to commit the offences. While the jeweller and his younger daughter survived, his wife and the elder child died.

 The court said: “The applicant, due to loss in business and desperation, forced his two daughters -Kanishka (7) and Bhoomika (9) -and wife, Rupam (35), to consume poison and cau sed the death of his wife and [elder] daughter. Considering the serious nature of offence, the accused does not deserve bail.“
 
 Harish has been charged with murder for feeding poison to the now dead child, for abetment of suicide for instigating his wife to consume the poison, attempted murder of his surviving child and his own attempted suicide.
 
 Harish, who lived in   area with his family, had borrowed Rs 50 lakh for business but was unable to repay the amount. On October 1, 2015, he sat his family down and explained to them how they would be hounded by creditors if they continued to live. He had purchased rat kill from the market. Harish is alleged to have mixed the poison with a beverage and offered it to his daughters, before he and his wife consumed it themselves.
 
 The police alleged that on realizing what he had done, Harish called up a friend and told him about the step he had taken. His friend relayed the information to Harish's father who lived nearby .His father rushed to the house and took Harish, his wife and daughters to a hospital.
 
 The prosecution said that Harish had later surrendered in a magistrate's court. The court opposed his bail plea and said that the post-mortem reports had shown that Rupam and Bhoomika had died due to poisoning.
 
 Seeking bail, Harish told the court that his parents were very old and there was no one to look after his surviving daughter. Referring to the business losses suffered, he said that he had no way to meet the family's expenses and was unable to pay his children's school fees. He said he was desperate and also depressed.
 
