BENGALURU: Representatives from various   -both from political parties and   -on Saturday unanimously argued that the Centre's “imposition of Hindi in the garb of   is not only an infringement on other languages but is aimed at wiping out other cultures, therefore, threatening the democracy of the country.“

 While representatives from Raj Thackeray-led Maharashtra Navanirman Sena (MNS) and Tamil Nadu's   (DMK) were among those from political parties, pan-India organizations like CLEAR (Campaign for Language Equality and Rights) among other forums from Odisha, Kerala and Gujarat, met in Bengaluru as part of a round-table conference to discuss strategies to oppose imposition of Hindi.
 
 The meeting saw huge representation from Karnataka -writers Baragur Ramachandrappa, Chandrashekar Patil (Champa), Kamala Hampana; politicians B R Sudarshan, Mukyamantri Chandru, actor Chetan and lyricist Kaviraj among others. Pro-Kannada organizations recently protested against the “unnecessary imposition of Hindi“ in Namma Metro train services in Bengaluru.
 
 
 
 Sandeep Deshpande of MNS, Baragur Ramachandrappa and Champa pointed out how the fight is not against Hindispeaking people, but the fact that the language, which has become another symbol for majoritarianism, being imposed in various forms.
 
 “We must view this with a larger perspective. There is a move to make India a majoritarian state, by killing the powers of various states and their people. While imposition of Hindi is infringement on language, there is also a move to make India look like it has only one religion, and even financially, states are being deprived of their rights through a one-tax system,“ Ramachandrappa said.
 
 Champa and Deshpande claimed that there's a move to sell an idea that argues India essentially be `Hindi-Hinduand-Hindustan,' which contradicts the structure of Indian democracy, which is an association of multiple states, with diverse cultures, lan guages, food habits and reli gions. “All political parties at the Centre behave the same way. That's because no na tional party in India has felt secure in southern states or the northeast, regions home to languages other than Hindi. The so-called Hindi belt has no development, so par ties in the Centre first create a comfort zone for Hindi speaking people, help them migrate and create new con stituents of voters in our states,“ Deshpande said.
 
