GURUGRAM: Police have registered another case against the contractor of Sunehra Apna Ghar Co-operative Housing Society, Ishpal Bhardwaj, who is accused of duping more than 200 homebuyers by overselling flats in the project.

 Bhardwaj is currently in judicial custody in   jail, awaiting trial. He was arrested in January this year in connection with five other cases lodged last year. This is the sixth case against him.
 
 Cops said the fresh case was registered against Bhardwaj on Monday for allegedly duping a former Air Force employee of nearly Rs 40 lakh on the pretext of selling him a flat in the Sector 53 housing society on discount.
 
 The complaint in the case was lodged by Anju, wife of the victim, Babulal, who said Bhardwaj had befriended her husband because both of the them were former Air Force employees.
 
 According to the complaint, Anju and Babulal started living in   in 2005, and met Bhardwaj in 2006. He had told the couple that after he left his job in the Air Force, he worked with a private bank before joining the real estate business.
 
 He then allegedly offered to give them a discounted flat in Sector 55 on Gold Course Road, and showed them several projects which he had purportedly finished, including a residential complex called Chandra Housing Society in Sector 55, next to which he was proposing the Sunehra Apna Ghar housing society.
 
 Bhardwaj had offered the couple a 3 BHK house of 1,440 square feet and had taken Rs 4 lakh as advance (10% of Rs 40 lakh), along with their documents. By 2010, the couple had allegedly paid Bhardwaj Rs 20 lakh, following which he gave them the share certificate, allotment letter and the flat plan, along with the list of 94 members.
 
 After completing the valuation of the flat, Anju paid Bhardwaj another Rs 17.5 lakh. The complaint alleged that while the construction work progressed in full swing till 2013, it stopped after that.
 
 They also alleged that Bhardwaj, in collusion with his brother-in-law, Pradeep Bhardwaj, his brother  , and his son   siphoned off several crores from many people on the pretext of giving them the flat, and putting the money in their personal accounts.
 
 The couple have also alleged that some of the documents they received from Bhardwaj, had forged signatures of his cousin, Amit Kumar.
 
 Police said the FIR has been registered at Sector 56 police station under sections 120B (punishment for criminal conspiracy), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating) and 471 (using a genuine as fraud) of the IPC.
 
 SHO of Sector 56 police station,  , said the fresh case was registered after a preliminary enquiry by the economic offences wing found the allegations to be true prima facie. “We are seeking a production warrant for Ishpal Bhardwaj, who is currently in Bhondsi jail. We will question him once we get him on remand,” he added.
 
 The Sunehra Apna Ghar project started in 1996, but even after more than 10 years, only 60% construction work has been completed. Moreover, the society has in all 94 approved flats, whereas the contractor allegedly sold the same to 200 buyers.
 
 
