NEW DELHI:   intends to set up 50 retail stores in the country by end-2018 to underpin its global business model of direct and online sales, underscoring the importance of Asia's third-biggest economy in the growth blueprint of the $9.5-billion US parent company.
 
  India, where   Corp's local unit has invested more than Rs 1,000 crore, will be the first in the company's global sales operations to have significant brick-and-mortar presence, a strategy aimed at simultaneously increasing consumer outreach and providing consumers and distributors the platform to directly buy the products.
  
  Direct sales, however, will continue to remain the primary mode of operations in the country, which has emerged as a top-10 global market for the Michigan-based company's   and Artistry skin products. Amway's sales in India in the calendar year 2016 touched Rs 1,700 crore.
  
  
 
  
  "We are, and will remain, a direct selling company with direct sellers as the key point of distribution. But visibility and easy access are important components of our growth strategy… we've lined up a number of initiatives to spur growth in India," Amway president   told ET in an exclusive telephonic conversation on the eve of a two-day visit to India.
  
  Amway's focus on enhancing its brand presence in the country comes against the backdrop of robust growth prospects for direct-selling of consumer products in India, where increasing affordability is expanding the consumer pyramid.
  
  The direct selling industry could touch Rs 64,500 crore by 2025, up from the current Rs 8,000 crore, according to a forecast by Ficci-KPMG.
  
  Amway already has 32 'express pick & pay' stores so far in the country, which the company believes could lead its global growth drive.
  
  "We're positive about our future in India and believe we'll continue to see strong growth here in 2017 and beyond," DeVos told ET.
  
  In its last reported earnings in 2015, closely held Amway had announced global sales decline of 12% to $9.5 billion, a fall precipitated by lower revenues in China and foreign-currency fluctuations. However, the company had said in 2015 that its sales increased 70% in its top 20 markets, adding that sales were "not slowing down".
  
  DeVos said Amway's India growth strategy for 2017 and beyond will involve four components — a new customer programme where customers can buy products directly from the company online, express stores, an expanded product portfolio that will include consumer durables and energy drinks, and technology and training. Distributors will continue to remain at the core of Amway's business even at the retail stores.
  
  His visit comes after currency controls were put in place following the withdrawal of 500- and 1,000-rupee-notes as legal tender, a move that hurt consumer sales across categories in the October-December quarter.
  
  However, the impact was "not significant" for Amway's hundred-plus products across nutrition, beauty, personal care and home care segments. "For us, 95% product purchases are now being processed digitally compared to 50% previously. We have made significant progress in shifting our transactions to digital platforms and we make all payments to our 500,000 direct sellers via digital platforms," DeVos said.
  
  DeVos also said the guidelines issued by the government for direct sellers in September last year will safeguard consumer interests while protecting ethical direct-selling companies. "As a next step, appropriate legislation will help the industry reach its potential," he added. 
