Margao/Verna/Panaji: Polling officers donning different shades of pink welcomed 626 first-time voters on Saturday at 40 pink polling stations decked up in pink balloons, curtains, posters, table cloths and chairs.  Keeping in sync with the fact that pink is synonymous with women power, the colour-coded polling stations, which made their debut in this year’s assembly elections, were managed entirely by women election officers and women security personnel.  First-time women voters were gifted baby pink teddy bears after succesfully casting their ballots, while their male counterparts were handed ball pens. Such was the hype surrounding the pink booths that a number of 18 and 19-year-old girls made a dash for the nearest one only to be told that it did not fall in their part. Among the lucky ones whose polling booth was chosen to go pink was 18-year-old Simran Harihar. A resident of Borda, she dressed for the occasion in a pink anarkali to cast her vote at the pink booth at Ravindra Bhavan in Fatorda constituency. “I’ll give it to my sister. I don’t play with teddy bears anymore,” she said. Several older women too were only too happy to dress up in accordance with the theme. Adorned with pink drapes and multiple arches of pink balloons, much to the delight of children accompanying their parents, the entrance to Ravindra Bhavan made it seem as though people were arriving for a baby shower party. The decor did help lighten the mood for those waiting in serpentine queues in the absence of separate lines for men and women. Verna panchayat in Nuvem constituency received a bright pink makeover, with painters working round-the-clock in the days leading up to the polls. Eighteen-year-old Sanford Braganza, who works in UK, was happy to have the polls coincide with his holiday in the state. He was even more surprised to be gifted with a pen and have his photograph taken with the booth’s presiding officer.  In the pink polling booth at the Goa Home Science College in Panaji, no distinction was made between the sexes and the entire electorate was sent home with pink roses. South Goa collector Swapnil Naik said the pink polling booths registered a good polling percentage as well.