  Navratri celebrates the victory of good over evil, but the stories behind all the Navratris differ. Theoretically, there are four seasonal Navratris, however, the one that is observed post-monsoon, Sharad Navratri, is considered the most auspicious of the four. According to the Hindu calendar, the festival is celebrated in the month of Ashvin, which typically falls in September and October, as per the Gregorian calendar. It's a conjunction of two words — nava (meaning nine) and ratri (meaning night). Spread across nine nights and 10 days, During Navratri, Goddess Durga or Shakti, who represents the energy of the universe in her nine beautiful forms with great reverence, is worshipped.  This year, Navratri began on September 21 and will end on September 29; the 10th day is celebrated as Dasara. In Belagavi, the celebrations include recitals of stories, chanting of scriptures, observing fasts and cultural dances, such as dandiya and garba. The ‘rasa’ (dance of joy) of Lord Krishna and the Gopis is also enacted by some groups. On the final day, the idol of Goddess Durga is either immersed in water (in the case of Durga Puja) or effigies are burnt. Both signify the victory of good over evil.  The nine forms of Durga and the colours of each avatar:  SHAILPUTRI  She is the embodiment of the collective power of Brahma, Vishnu and Mahesh. The colour of the first day is red, which depicts action and vigour.  BRAHMACHARINI  She is blissful and endows happiness, peace, prosperity and grace upon all devotees who worship her. The colour of the second day is royal blue, since it’s synonymous with a calm-yet-powerful energy.  CHANDRAGHANTA  She represents beauty and grace, and is worshipped on the third day for peace, tranquility and prosperity in life. The colour of the day is yellow.  KUSHMUNDA  She is considered the creator of the universe. The colour of the day is green.  SKANDMATA  She is the mother of Skanda, or Kartikeya, who was chosen by the gods as their commander-in-chief in the war against demons. The colour of the day is grey, as it indicates the vulnerability of a mother who can turn into a storm cloud to protect her child.  KATYAYANI  She was born to the great sage, Kata, as an avatar of Durga. Dressed in orange, she exhibits immense courage. Hence, the colour of the day is orange.  KALRATRI  She has a dark complexion, disheveled hair and a fearless posture. She has three eyes that shine bright, with flames emanating from her breath. She is the fiercest form of Durga and is dressed in white.  MAHA GAURI  Maha Gauri is intelligent, peaceful and calm. It is said that due to her austerities in the Himalayas, her colour transformed from white to black. However, later, when Shiva cleaned her with the water of Ganga, her body regained its beauty. The colour of the day is pink, denoting hope and a fresh start.  SIDDHIDATRI  She has supernatural healing powers. She has four arms and is always happy. She blesses all gods, saints, yogis, tantriks and devotees as a manifestation of the mother goddess. The colour of the day is sky blue, representing wonderment about the beauty of nature.    - Abhay Sunil Naik