Nagpur: Students of Standard VIII to X representing around 34 city schools participated in Swachhata Fortnight, organized by   (RSC). The theme of the celebration was ‘Cleanliness, health and hygiene’. 

 During celebrations, many competitions like poster making, essay writing, power point presentation, science slogan wring, written science quiz and elocution were conducted in which students and teachers from schools such as Centre Point School, Bhavan’s, School of Scholars, Sanjuba High School, Chanda Devi Saraf, Vishwas Madhyamik Vidyalaya and others participated.
 
 As part of the event, ‘shramdan’ was carried out on Thursday wherein the RSC staff members and officers cleaned footpaths and road in front of the centre. Also, a multimedia presentation on ‘Swaccha Bharat Abhiyan’ was held and pamphlets were distributed to the visitors at RSC throughout the fortnight .
 
 On Friday, the final day of the celebration, a swachhata march was taken out in which students from about 10 schools were involved in creating awareness about cleanliness through placards in Ganeshpeth area. This was followed by a lecture on science by Dr Krishna Kamble, senior professor, Government Medical College, on ‘Health and personal hygiene’.
 
 In his lighthearted speech, Kamble enlightened the audience about maintaining hygiene of hair, skin, hands and feet, oral hygiene, precautions to prevent unhygienic practices and benefits of keeping good habits. 
 
 He said, “First we need to clean our mind and then our body. Once this is done, cleanliness of the country will automatically follow.” He asked students to make hygiene a part of life. The programme ended with prizes being distributed by Kamble.
 
 “We celebrate this occasion not only to make students contribute to the cause but also to inculcate a sense of cleanliness among them throughout life,” said Vilas Chaudhari, education officer. It is important that the importance of cleanliness is inculcated in students at an early age to make them responsible citizens. Manoj Panda, curator of RSC, was present.
 
 (Reporting by Tanuja Ratnaparkhi)
 
 
