PUNE: A   ( ) meeting on Thursday cleared Rs 439.08 crore in the draft plan for various projects for the 2017-18 period.

 Final clearance of these funds would, however, be done by the state finance minister. While the DPDC sanctioned Rs 439.08 crore, the demand for the year was an allocation of Rs 735.86 crore. The DPDC also cleared Rs 75 crore under the Adivasi scheme and Rs 171.46 crore under the Scheduled Tribe scheme.
 
 The meeting also proposed that additional funds would be sought from the state government to improve roads in the district. The DPDC allocates funds to various departments like agriculture, rural development, irrigation, electricity and industry.
 
 The meeting, chaired by Pune guardian minister Girish Bapat, was attended by ministers Vijay Shivtare, Dilip Kamble; and elected representatives like Ajit Pawar, MP Supriya Sule and MP  . Other MLAs, government representatives and officials were also present.
 
 While Bapat allotted time to various elected representatives to speak about their grievances, he said that at the next meeting, these representatives must submit their concerns in writing 15 days ahead so that answers may be sought and the MLAs and MPs may get replies in writing. 
 
 Probe on misappropriation of funds
 
 Minister of state for social justice and special assistance Dilip Kamble has ordered the formation of a special investigation team to probe the misappropriation of funds under social welfare schemes. Speaking at the DPDC meeting, Kamble said the team would investigate the matter and come up with a detailed report.
 
 “We have got some complaints from Taljai and some other areas. It has come to our notice that funds allocated for various projects in slum areas have been diverted for other purposes. We want the team to investigate the issue,” Kamble said.
 
 The meeting also highlighted the issue of works proposed by the eight MLAs in the city to various departments, which were to be taken up by corporation officials. Bapat said there were several complaints that the funds for these proposed works were not being utilized and lapsing because the corporation did not undertake these works. The municipal commissioner has been told to give a report on the status of the works and its implementation, Bapat said.
 
 Solutions sought for man-animal conflict
 
 Pune district collector Saurabh Rao urged the forest department to come up with solutions for the increasing man-animal conflict in the backdrop of wild animals straying into city areas as well as attacks on people in Junnar taluka in the district. 
 
 A report by the forest department states that besides the Junnar area, the Maval, Mulshi areas have also reported incidents and slowly, such incidents are emerging from Indapur and Baramati talukas. “With decreasing forest cover, these animals are straying into sugarcane cultivation areas to prey on smaller animals. We have told the department to ready a report on the solutions on how to tackle this issue,” the collector said at the meeting.
 
 Digital mela for going cashless 
 
 To ring in the cashless system, a digital ‘Dhan mela’ has been arranged at S P College grounds in the district on January 7. 
 
 The mela will be inaugurated by Union textile minister Smriti Irani and minister of state for defence Subhash Bhamre. 
 
 There would be 60 stalls, and 10 gram panchayats and 10 councils would be declared cashless, district collector Saurabh Rao said. 
 
 Two cities in the state were selected for the dhan mela, the first being Mumbai, where the function was held on January 3, followed by January 7 in Pune. Aadhaar-linked services, Rupay cards and Bhim card transactions would be topics of discussion at the function.
 
 
