CHENNAI:  's loss has become  ' gain. After Starc was ruled out of the ongoing India series with a stress fracture on his right foot, Cummins got the nod to replace the left-arm pacer which many thought was a bold move taken by the selection panel of Cricket Australia.

 However, former bowling coach   is of the opinion that Cummins has earned the right to be part of the Test side thanks to his consistent performances in recent times. "Pat has bowled very well in the last few months. Obviously, Starc's injury is a big loss but I feel Pat will do well in India. He bowls quick, can reverse the ball much like Starc and it is great to see him back in the Test side," McDermott told TOI on Monday. 
 
 McDermott was the bowling coach when Cummins had a dream debut against South Africa at Johannesburg in 2011, making a mark with 6-79 in the second innings that swung the game in his side's favour. Unfortunately, post that splendid show, Cummins' Test career hit a roadblock due to a spate of injuries, and it is set to take flight again in the coming days.
 
 McDermott felt Cummins role in India won't just be restricted to his bowling prowess alone. "He is not only a good bowler but a good fielder as well. He is quite useful with the bat and can get those crucial runs coming lower down the order. If he is able to fire with new ball and use the old ball to reverse, he could be very handy. Australia has to make sure they have enough runs on board for the bowlers to come into picture," pointed out McDermott.
 
 Cummins, part of the Australian limited-overs side that took on Pakistan, Sri Lanka and New Zealand in the last few months, caught the selectors' eye with his performance for New South Wales (NSW) against South Australia in Sydney last week. The 23-year-old, featuring in his first Sheffield Shield game in close to six years, was rewarded for his pace and precision with match-figures of 8-104 that helped NSW seal the encounter by eight wickets.
 
 Interestingly, Cummins' got the call-up ahead of fellow pacer   who too is making a return from an injury. While Cummins has just one first-class game to show, Pattinson has been part of three and has 14 wickets to his name at an impressive average of 19.71. But McDermott is more than convinced that Cummins is the man to take Starc's place in the side. "James hasn't played as much cricket as Cummins. Pattinson would have been more of a risk," McDermott reasoned. The bigger question remains - will Cummins make his way into the playing XI against India in the third Test at Ranchi? McDermott chose to play it with a straight bat. "I am not sure as that's up to the selectors and I am not one of them," he said.
 
