BHOPAL: Unavailability of CT-scan service at   sparked a heated exchange of words between a group of youngsters and a doctor and his alleged manhandling, on Sunday. The ruckus affected services in the hospital for two hours. Both youngsters and the doctor on duty lodged a complaint and a counter-complaint at  . Police began investigation, but no case was registered in this regard till the time of filing of the news. 

 The incident over the out-of-order CT-scan machine comes barely eight days after chief minister   visited the hospital and ordered improvement in services. 
 
 Patient Akhilesh Lovanshi, 20, who suffered a head injury in a fight during a cricket match in morning was brought to the Hamidia hospital, police said. Doctors on duty gave the young man first-aid and advised CT-scan. Those who came with Akhilesh, asked for CT-scan at the hospital, but the doctors expressed their inability to do anything about it as the machine was not working, police said. At this point, tempers ran high and some of those who came with the injured youngster allegedly grabbed Dr Mohit Jain by his collar and abused him. Soon, other hospital staff rushed and intervened.
 
 The patient was later admitted to a surgery ward of the hospital, police said.
 
 Talking to TOI, Dr Jain said, "We treated the patient as soon as he came to the hospital. There were over 70 others who came with the patient. We did not object to it, because the patient was our priority. After Bajaria police reached the hospital to record the statement, those accompanying the patient started shouting at us. They abused us saying Akhilesh should be admitted to the hospital despite the fact there was no need for it. When we asked them to get the CT-scan done from outside as the machine in the hospital was not in a working condition for three years, they abused and assaulted on-duty doctors. The incident took place in front of two policemen and the two just looked on. Instead, they left the place shortly after recording the statement."
 
 Koh-e-Fiza town inspector Anil Vajpayee said, "There was no physical assault. We have received a complaint from both parties. We have started investigation and will register the case only after we get real accused.
 
 On Sunday morning, Akhilesh, a resident of Phutemukbara, went to Chandbad ground to play cricket. There, the two teams fought over batting and Akhilesh was beaten with a bat, resulting in injury to him. A case has been registered at Bajaria police station. Bajaria police said the accused are Raju Basanta, Rajat, Jagdish and others, who are on the run. Raju hit Akhilesh on his head with the bat, police said.
 
 
