PANAJI: Sports and politics have always had an uneasy relationship, but remain inextricably linked, particularly in a small place like Goa where the two have remained inseparable.

 During the last assembly elections, prominent footballers – Avertano Furtado, Benjamin Silva and Glen Ticlo, all former state footballers – got elected on debut and this time around more are hoping that their strong sporting connection will see them through.
 
 At the top of the heap is Aam Aadmi Party’s chief ministerial candidate Elvis Gomes. The former bureaucrat who quit his job despite being on the verge of being inducted into the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) is president of the Goa Football Association (GFA) and it is this association that has made him a popular figure across the state.
 
 Featured prominently and regularly on the back pages of Goa’s newspapers, Gomes has been able to connect with a large section of people, largely due to his association with football, declared the state sport in Goa. “My association with football may have an impact (on the voters) but I didn’t decide to get into GFA because I wanted to be a politician. As GFA president, I have not approached a single club for help but I’ve promised to restore football to its top position in India,” says Gomes.
 
 His party candidate from Mormugao, Loretta D’Souza, is more famous for being a former India hockey goalkeeper rather than a top IRS officer with three decades of service at Customs & Central Excise.
 
 GFA general secretary Welvin Menezes was a Congress ticket aspirant from St Andre. He lost the race to former sports minister Francis Silveira, while Xavier Fialho, recently elected as president of Weightlifting Association of Goa, is the Congress candidate from Cumbharjua.
 
 In Mapusa, deputy chief minister Francis D’Souza is facing a tough challenge from his friend-turned-foe  , who has made news as secretary of the Goa Cricket Association. Phadke was arrested in June last year for his alleged involvement in the misappropriation of BCCI funds but the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) believes Phadke is the best bet to dethrone D’Souza, a four-time MLA from Mapusa.
 
 The MGP also considered fielding GCA president Chetan Desai from his native Canacona until Desai, former manager of the Indian cricket team, decided the time for a political plunge was just not right.
 
 MGP’s fascination with cricket officials is not hard to understand. The party’s chief ministerial candidate and former PWD minister Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar still owns the bat with which he cut rival bowlers to size while turning up for Bandora Youth Club. 
 
 Former Congress chief ministers—Digambar Kamat (badminton),   (volleyball) and Pratapsingh Rane (boxing)—have all represented the state at National championships, while  , currently India’s defence minister, takes pride in the fact that he was a regular member of the Loyola High School football team that emerged state champions.
 
 Another former chief minister, Churchill Alemao, is renowned for his passion for the beautiful game and his team, Churchill Brothers SC, are twice I-League champions. Word is that Francisco Mickky Pacheco, his bete noire in Benaulim until he decided to shift to neighbouring Nuvem constituency, also took the football route to match Churchill’s popularity by running a football team – Fransa-Pax Football Club – in India’s top football league.
 
 In the run up to the assembly polls, it’s no surprise just about nobody wants to miss the sporting trick while enhancing their political reputations.
 
