KOLKATA: Is it possible to take a taxi and yet zip through the perennial traffic snarls the city is so (in)famous for? It is, with the introduction of bike-taxis in   and Rajarhat. And if they turn out to be commercially viable, Kolkata may soon it get its own fleet.

 On Thursday, transport minister   flagged off 22 bike-taxis with commercial registration (yellow number plate). They will be available in New Town and Rajarhat for the time being. A commuter needs to pay Rs 20 for the first 2 km and Rs 5 per km thereafter. “The price is fixed. There will be no surge pricing,” said Firdous Kalim, director of Kbike-taxi.
 
 “Kbike-taxi will soon be followed by more organized players like Uber and Ola. Bike taxis are a major success in townships like Gurgaon. With bikes becoming a part of the public transport, our bouquet is complete with an array of transportation modes,” said principal secretary (transport) Alapan Bandyopadhyay.
 
 The regional transport authority (RTA) and the state transport department had in November 2016 given clearance to bike-taxis as a secure, cheaper and less time-consuming mode of transport. 
 
 According to minister Adhikari, bike-taxis would help to promote tourism as well. “Many tourists would prefer bike-taxis to the normal ones. If this is successful in New Town, we will soon replicate the model in Kolkata and the rest of Bengal,” he said. 
 
 “Bike-taxis can be availed through both app as well as a dedicated number (9836215551),” said  , another director of kbiketaxi. Ten women are now being trained to ferry female passengers, he added.
 
 “Each biker is recruited after proper background check and rigorous training. Safety and security of the pillion is important to us. Each bike has a speed governor, so it can never over speed. The maximum speed has been set at 40km/hour. We have panic-button in the app, but, as suggested by the transport department, we will be introducing physical panic button at the rear side of the bike,” said Firdous Kalim.
 
 
