If you find   missing from your 
  or 
  at a local eatery, you can blame it on the soaring prices of tomatoes in the  . In the past week, tomato prices have skyrocketed leaving Bengalureans in a fix. While there is no clarity on what has caused the   rise, many feel that the Goods and Service Tax ( ) is the culprit behind it. Bangalore Times finds out more…

 
 
 
  found out that tomatoes were being sold in the market between Rs 75-90 per kilo. “Of late the price of tomato has gone up. Last week when we brought tomatoes, it was Rs 74 per kg. Earlier, we used to pay as less as Rs 20 per kilo,” says Pallavi Sengupta, a city-based professional, adding that the increased price has cut down the usage of tomatoes in her home by half. “Since tomatoes are so expensive, we have cut down our usage by half and try our best not to waste any food,” she says. But many like George Thomas, banking professional from the city, say that the increased price has not made a drastic change to their diet. “I haven’t faced an issue as such. Since I can afford it, I still buy the same amount of tomatoes. But am sure there are many who are facing problems and have cut down on their intake,” he says.
 
 
 
 Nishtha Nayyar, a working professional in the city, says that she prefers buying vegetables especially tomatoes, from a vegetable market than a supermarket. “We bought tomatoes for Rs 60 last week. Am sure in a supermarket it’s as expensive as Rs 85 per kilo.” But has the increased price affected her in any way? “Of course it has. We don’t make dishes like pasta and others that require more tomatoes, as often as we used to. Since the price has gone up, I have become more conscious of the usage. In fact, my domestic help says that she has reduced using tomatoes in her household considerably,” she adds.
 
 
 
 Contrary to the belief that GST may have a role in the price rise of tomatoes, vegetable vendors and owners tell us that GST has no bearing at all. “Obviously there has been less rainfall — that has had an impact in the production. In addition to that, tomatoes are very cyclic. If one year the prices drop, the next year it shoots up,” explains Amar Krishna Murthy, CEO, Towness. “If the prices drop, people stop growing tomatoes. The following year, when the demand goes up there isn’t enough quantity to meet the needs, which in turn results in the steep rise of prices,” he says.
 
 Chandru, who works at a HOPCOMS stall, says that the monsoons have created a shortage. “If we ask for 500 quintals, we get only 100 quintals. How will the demands be met?” he asks, saying the scenario is likely to last for a month or so. He also clarifies that unlike what many think, GST has not affected the prices of vegetables and fruits. “There is a solid shortage of tomatoes in the market,” he adds.
 
 Another representative at Namdhari’s Fresh, on the condition of anonymity, said that the prices of tomatoes are expected to remain the same for another month. “It is all because of the monsoon. If the weather does not improve, the prices will continue to soar,” he sums up. Amar, however, points out that he hasn’t experienced a slump in sales as such, as tomato is one of the basic necessities in cooking. “Tomato is hard to replace in cooking,” he says adding that people are still buying it online inspite of the price rise. 
 
 
 
 
 
