Sharwaree Gokhale, the Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officer and Mumbai's first woman collector who died of cancer in January last year, has left behind her sprawling apartment at   in Andheri (W) for brain research. As per her Will, the apartment has been bequeathed to the Centre for Brain Research, an autonomous body under the Indian Institute of Sciences in Bengaluru.

 Colleagues of Gokhale - a 1974 batch officer who retired as additional chief secretary (environment) after serving for 36 years, and who was diagnosed with stomach cancer - said it was her wish that her savings and property should be used for scientific research.
 
 Gokhale's close friend Chandra Iyenger, also an IAS officer, said Gokhale never married and is survived by her brother Jagadeesh, who resides in the US. He formerly worked with the US Department of the Treasury.
 
 "She underwent treatment for nearly three years, which included chemotherapy and a surgery. But when she realised that she was losing her battle to cancer, she did extensive research for nearly a year to make sure the flat was bequeathed to the institute of her choice. After signing the final set of documents, Gokhale died in just six days," Iyengar said.
 
 Iyenger said science and medical research were of "massive interest" to Gokhale and she believed brain was the most fascinating part of human body, which must be harnessed.
 
 "Many of her friends suggested she donate her money and property to NGOs but she was very firm on donating to the CBR. She wanted to donate her money to an organisation which she thought will use it wisely," said Meeran Borwankar, former Pune police commissioner who used to assist Gokhale in her miscellaneous works.
 
 Officials from the Centre for Brain Research said Gokhale's donation will "contribute to the progress of human kind". "Her gift to the CBR will help in furthering our knowledge of human brain especially with reference to age-related brain disorders," the CBR said.
 
 The   said they will check the documents to initiate the property transfer procedure.  , who is chairman of the society, said, "I have been told about the Will and we shall verify the documents."
 
