Surat: Farmers in south Gujarat have threatened to launch an indefinite dharna at the office of irrigation department here from Gandhi Jayanti to demand the release of water from Ukai reservoir from October 1.

 About 2,000 representatives of the farmers community from Ankleshwar, Navsari, Valsad and Surat had gathered at Khedut Samaj Gujarat (KSG) headquarters at Jehangirpura here to pressurize the state government to release water for irrigation. 
 
 KSG office-bearers said the irrigation department has stopped release of water from Ukai reservoir citing insufficient water due to scanty rainfall in the upper catchment areas of the reservoir. The farmers across the region are experiencing lot of difficulties in taking up farming activity due to non-availability of water. 
 
 “We have given an ultimatum to the state government to announce the water release rotation from October 1 or else the farmers will sit on an indefinite dharna at the irrigation office on October 2,” KSG president Jayesh Patel said. 
 
 Patel added, “The Ukai reservoir has enough water for drinking and irrigation purpose. Still, the irrigation department is concerned more about the giant industries in Hazira and Ankleshwar. As per the norms, the industries come last in the list of priority sectors.” 
 
 The KSG leaders stated that Ukai dam is filled with water until 319 feet. This means, that the dam has 3,900 million cubic metres (MCM) water storage, out of which the usable water is 3,200 mcm. There are seven rotations per month starting from October 2017 to April 2018. At each rotation, Ukai dam needs to release around 200 MCM water in its left and right bank canals to irrigate the fields. 
 
 On the other hand, Surat city requires around 0.9 MCM water per day, which comes to around 200 MCM for six months. However, the overall supply of water from the dam comes to around 1,700 mcm against the total storage of 3,200 MCM. 
 
 Farmer leader Darshan Nayak said, “The Ukai dam has enough water to irrigate the fields as well as to meet the water requirements of Surat city. If the irrigation department does not release water from October 1, then the farmers in the region will take extreme measures.”
 
 
