Thane: At 164 years, the   is unarguably one of the historic landmarks not only for the city, but a pride for the country, as it played host to the India's first train service that chugged out from Bori Bunder (now CSMT) on April 16, 1853 at 3:35 pm. 

 The first passenger train of the Great Indian Peninsula Railway covered the 33km distance up to Tannah, now Thane, in around 57 minutes. The 400 commuters who travelled in were greeted to a thunderous applause as it was no small a feat to build that run the first railways on the tracks that not only split the city in two parts (east and west) but also paved way for a vital link between Mumbai and the entire country in the following years. 
 
 Historians say the first station with basic facilities like a platform was probably constructed towards the Koliwada part. The initial runs of the train was mostly for VIPs and later on for traders from Mumbai who used to frequent Ghodbunder port, which was then a booming business hub. The station assumed importance as it was the only major town after Mumbai and was the one point connect for Mumbai and the entire state.
 
 Rajendra Aklekar, a city- based rail historian and researcher who has chronicled the history of Indian Railways since its inception says that after the railways started regular runs, a need was felt to upgrade the railway station. “Nearly four acres land was acquired for the station. Of the total land, about 3 acres was owned by about 30 residents and the GIP Railway Company acquired them following which construction work started and extended till the end of the century.” 
 
 Subsequent increase in population and traffic from this area soon forced the British to expand the station, parts of which are still prevalent at the existing site, a fact corroborated by few photographs available with historians.
 
 Historian Sadashiv Tetvilkar from Thane says gradual development of the station saw several facilities at the premises including ticket windows, an administrative office and stone arches at the Kalyan end of the station. "There was a tonga stand at the place where the present ST depot is located with commuters travelling to and from the city and Ghodbunder alighting here to board trains. A small ticket window was also commissioned at the spot. Sadly, none of the memoirs of the original station can be seen now as development over the last few years saw the original parts being pulled down to make way for new ones," rues Tetwilkar who has been writing to the authorities to work on recreating the aura of the station. 
 
 A stone-cabin near Kopri which was probably used as a watch tower for approaching trains also lies in ruins today. "IN the olden days, there used to be a person stationed at the tower which is located at a curve to relay signals to trains coming from either directions. Slowly hitech signals phased out the earlier system rendering the structure useless," says Tetwilkar.
 
 The remains of an old pair of rail lines was till recently visible along the slow tracks but has apparently been moved away with the new expansion plans of the network. Another pair of lines towards Mithbandar were also visible till last few years but have been submerged under the growing urbanisation of this part of the city. 
 
 The ramp bridge connecting platform 2 and 3-4 also was built several years back which reminds of the architecture and stones that is similar to the ones seen at Sion, Byculla and CST buildings.
 
 However, reckless development over the last few decades has destroyed all traces of its historic significance that keeps surfacing intermittently during excavations for civic works in and around the premises.
 
 Meanwhile, activists and experts rue that the railways are focusing only on the CST structure that has been declared a heritage site, but sadly nothing of that sort exists for Thane. There is lot of trivia surrounding the railways like how a popular temple in Kopri had to be relocated to Naupada as it came in the way of the railway lines and how few residents initially feared using the mean machines which needs to be passed on to the next generations they say. 
 
 “The authorities reportedly failed to realize the importance of saving a slice of history for the future generations as vital relics were either destroyed or buried under the guise of development,” lament historians from Thane.
 
