MANGALURU: Woman’s complaint to the minister over a phone call lead to the cancellation of cooperative society’s fair price shop license in Shaktinagar on Friday. 

 Minister for food, civil supplies and consumer affairs   on March 23 received a phone call from a BPL card holder in Shaktinagar. The woman complained to Khader that the fair price shop run by   in Shaktinagar did not issue rice to her under the ‘Anna Bhagya’ for the month. The fair price shop had allegedly denied rice for the month on March 23 despite a government order that makes it mandatory for shops to continue distribution of food grains till the end of the particular month. The person at the fair price shop reportedly asked the woman to visit the shop again in April citing the reason that there is no stock of rice. 
 
 Soon after reaching home, the woman dialed the number of minister Khader and explained her grievance. The woman told the minister that the shopkeeper did not listen to her when she questioned about violation of the government order that mandates continuous distribution of food grains till the end of the month. She also made mention about similar experiences she had in the past. 
 
 Responding to the woman’s complaint immediately, the minister directed department deputy director   to conduct an inquiry. Following this, Jayappa conducted a spot visit, checked records and collected details. The officer found that the fair price shop also had violated rules by not distributing rice under Anna Bhagya to many other BPL card holders as well. 
 
 "The deputy director of the department of food, civil supplies and consumer affairs submitted a report to the deputy commissioner mentioning the lapse on part of the fair price shop that failed to distribute rice to   effectively. Following this, the deputy commissioner has directed the department to cancel the fair price shop license of Naguri Vyavasaya Sahakari Sangha Shaktinagar branch with immediate effect,” stated a release from the department of information and public relation. 
 
