NEW DELHI: A pleasant surprise awaits you the next time you visit a city police station with a complaint. Instead of a grumpy, disinterested policeman, you are likely to have a smart young woman to hear you out and direct you on how to go about registering a complaint. 

 In an   bid,   has appointed   who would be the first point of contact for people. 
 
 The department has appointed 60 women sub-inspectors in 20 police stations in the first lot. They have been trained in   and will be in civilian clothes. They have also been trained to handle complaints sensitively.The top cop said the initiative was a step towards smoothening the grievance redress mechanism at police stations. 
 
 “The aim is to make police’s interaction with the public more empathetic, responsive and effective,” Patnaik added. 
 
 Three public facilitation officers will work at the facilitation desk round-the-clock in three shifts. Till now, the duty officer of the police station was supposed to interact with visitors and complainants. 
 
 The DO would have a range of tasks to perform like logging all the activities of the police station, communicating assigned duties to station staff or attending to numerous phone calls. 
 
 Preoccupied with these duties, hearing out complainants was just one of the many things on these cops’ plate. At times, the complainant had to wait for a long time just to be heard. The interaction barely lasted 2-3minutes. 
 
 “Many times, the visit to the police station by a complainant was not fruitful even after the wait as the IO or the SHO would not be available in the police station for some reason or the other. All this is will change with the move to have dedicated public facilitation officers,” said ADGP Dependra Pathak. Patnaik launched the initiative at Connaught Place on Friday.
 
 In New Delhi district, Chanakyapuri, Connaught Place and Tilak Marg have been chosen in the first lot. Similarly, south campus, Defence Colony and Vasant Vihar in south district, New Friends Colony, C R Park, Greater Kailash and Nizamuddin are selected in southeast Delhi in the first lot.
 
