AHMEDABAD: Gujarat high court on Friday stayed the   murder trial and restrained the special   court from delivering its final verdict due to allegations of witnesses being threatened by the prime accused, ex-BJP MP   and his nephew Shiva Solanki.

  Justice J B Pardiwala sought a report from the CBI court on what action it took over the various complaints by witnesses, who alleged they were threatened and forced to turn hostile. The HC also sought a reply from the investigating agency – the CBI – in response to a petition by the RTI activist’s father, Bhikhalal Jethava, which claimed that 105 prosecution witnesses of a total of 195 witnesses had turned hostile due to pressure from the politician and his nephew.
 
 The CBI court has completed the trial and was to pronounce final verdict in the 2010 murder case on April 11, 2017. The HC shall hear the issue further on April 5.
 
 During the hearing, Justice Pardiwala asked what action the CBI court had taken when so many witnesses turned hostile. The court was annoyed by the argument from Solanki’s lawyer, who submitted that the stay order would ruin Solanki’s public image and adversely affect proceedings on a plea to cancel his bail which is pending before the  . The judge quickly replied that in a case where a man was shot dead in front of the high court campus and so many witnesses turned hostile, it would consider the issue after receiving the report from the CBI court.
 
  The petitioner filed the plea through advocate Anand Yagnik and urged the HC to direct the CBI to probe the reasons for such a large number of witnesses turning hostile during the trial, despite several of them complaining to the court about threats from the accused. The petitioner also sought action against those responsible in this case.
 
 The petitioner requested directions to recall all witnesses who were allegedly forced to turn hostile or to try the case afresh.
 
 The petitioner complained that no action was taken to protect witnesses despite complaints of threats from Solanki and his nephew. This violates their right to a fair trial, particularly when the CBI itself admitted to having received complaints alleging coercion by the accused before the Supreme Court.
 
 Citing the apex court’s order in the Best Bakery case, the petitioner insisted that courts have a duty to maintain public confidence in the administration of justice and uphold the majesty of the law. They can’t turn a blind eye to vexatious or oppressive conduct that occurs in relation to criminal proceedings.
 
 The petitioner laid emphasis on how Gujarat Police did not act on the CBI court’s order to probe charges of intimidation and coercion against Solanki. He accused the BJP-run government of supporting Solanki.
 
