The recent case of a brawl in the hostel premises of the   has brought another shocking   to the fore – that of students residing in the hostels illegally. After the brawl involving students Brijendra Sharma of the School of Languages and Aman Mishra of the School of Energy and Environmental Studies, was brought to the notice of the chief warden Shakti Bannerjee, he discovered that Brijendra, who had hit Aman, was staying   in the hostel.

 
 
 
 While speaking to us, Bannerjee informed, “The student (Brijendra) had failed twice in the first semester and was asked to appear for his exams in the following semester. He wasn’t able to make it to the next semester and thus lost the permission to stay in the university hostel, as he had voluntarily withdrawn his admission from the college. But he kept this fact hidden from the on-board warden and, in a way, was staying illegally in the hostel.”
 An ex student of the   University, who is currently working as a guest faculty in one of the colleges of the university, said, “I have been staying in the university hostel ever since I was a student and such chaos on the premises happens frequently. The recent incident is just one of the many and has come forth because the student went to the police station to lodge a complaint. However, the police asked him to sort out the issue with the hostel warden.”
 
 
 
 
 The on-board warden, Bhanu Pratap Singh, further shared, “I was busy with lectures and wasn’t present at the hostel premises when the brawl took place. When the issue was brought to our notice, we asked the oppressor to vacate the premises since he was staying illegally. The matter has been taken into consideration and a report will be sent to the Proctorial Board, which will further come up with a solution to curb such activities in the hostels.”
 Students of the university who are currently staying in hostels are of the opinion that the immediate wardens should be well informed about the activities and the identity of the students staying in the hostels. A student of IIPS College, staying in Rabindranath Tagore hostel, informed, “Not just Brijendra, but there are a number of students who stay in the hostel even after completing their courses. The wardens are not well-informed and there is a lack of strict norms. Whoever wants to enter the hostel can do so after making an entry in the register.” On the contrary, Bannerjee shared, “No outsider is allowed to stay in the hostels. Only the girl’s hostel has two guest rooms where family or siblings visiting them can stay. However, if a male hostel-dweller urges us to arrange for his family’s accommodation, we help them avail the university guest house.”
