Mohali: Cycle tracks, jogging paths and foot lights are on charts to beautify N-choe, the seasonal stream, in Mohali. The local councillors have been demanding the beautification of the banks of the choe, which has been marred with wild growth.

 Councillors Kamaljit Singh Ruby and Parwinder Singh strongly demanded that the banks must be converted on the pattern of leisure valley of Chandigarh having  , cycling paths and fitted with foot lights for morning and evening walkers.
 
 Jostling with health hazards, mosquitoes, reptile crawling into the court yard from the past several years, the councillors of the affected wards have raised their voice for beautification of 6-kilometer-long banks of N-Choe (seasonal rivulet) crossing through Phase IX, Sector 66, 67, 68 and 69 in Mohali.
 
 Councillors after the MC house meet pointed that wild growth over 7 feet in height, dumping of garbage and construction waste on the banks of the choe have become a blot on the face of the city. Residents living in the vicinity of the choe have to face major health hazards due to breeding of mosquitoes, snakes and other insects nearby. 
 
 Councillor of ward number 24 Kamaljit Singh Ruby said, “The N-Choe bisects Phase IX and the residents are forced to live under fear of criminals as well as health hazards. We demand that Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) must clean and clear the area and also construct cycle tracks, walking paths and fix foot lights on the banks of the choe.” Similarly, councillor of ward number 35 Parwinder Singh said, “We had written to GMADA many times but no action has been taken yet. So we demanded that the beautification of N-choe must be handed over to the municipal corporation so that we may get it done accordingly.”
 
 Mayor Kulwant Singh and MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu while supporting the demand said they will do the needful on their part for developing the banks of N-choe. Kulwant said, “We will bring about the agenda in the next house meet regarding the issue.” 
 
 
