Cleared 435/Words (Francis)

 Madurai: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Tuesday reserved its order on the petition filed by actor   seeking to quash the proceedings in a judicial magistrate court in Melur on a case filed by a couple who claimed to be his parents.
 
 The couple – R Kathiresan, 65, of Madurai and his wife Meenakshi, 53, – moved the court seeking maintenance from the actor claiming that he was their son.
 
 When the actor’s case came up for further hearing before Justice P N Prakash on Tuesday, the couple’s counsel S Titus argued that the actor fabricated many certificates, including educational and birth certificates. 
 
 The actor said that he was born on July 28, 1983 in Chennai. However, no register number was found on the birth certificate produced by him before the court. Moreover, when it was searched in the government website with the date of birth given by him, it could not be found in the name of Krishnamoorthy (Kasthuri Raja) and Vijayalakshmi as his parents.
 
 Besides, to prove the couple’s claim, the community certificate of director Kasthuri Raja from revenue authorities in Theni district and original transfer certificate of the couple’s son Kalaichelvan (Dhanush) from the school in Tirupattur in Sivaganga district were must. But, the concerned authorities refused to give them. The actor claimed that he belongs to the SC community. But, Kasthuri Raja, born in Theni belongs to the BC category. 
 
 He further said the actor removed his original identification marks mole on left collar bone and scar on left elbow, the issue of which was a matter needed to be dealt with the trial court by cross examining the doctors. Hence, it was necessary to dismiss Dhanush’s petition and order trial in a family court in Madurai. 
 
 Countering it, senior counsel Rama Krishnan appearing for the actor said that after a gap of 14 years the couple claimed paternity. Besides, it is said that the couple’s son is a driver who is at present in the Coimbatore region. The DNA test could not be ordered as a matter of course. 
 
 Besides, the censor board gave certificate to Dhanush’s first film ‘Thulluvadho Ilamai’ in March 2002. But, the couple said that their son’s education certificate was registered with the employment office in Madurai in June 2002.
 
 Objecting to it, the couple’s side said that Dhanush did not act in the movie certified by the censor board in March and it was not at all released. Dhanush acted in a subsequent movie in the same name that was released in 2003. 
 
 After hearing arguments, the judge reserved his order. 
 
 
