HYDERABAD: To ensure clean roads in the   (GHMC) limits, stretches over about 240 km will be entrusted to   soon.

 The decision was necessitated because many shops,   continue to use roads as dumping grounds in spite of sanitation workers cleaning them in the morning. Besides waste being discarded on roads, another major problem being faced is posters and flexies being put up illegally in spite of a ban in place from January 1.
 
 "The GHMC has called for a  . Private agencies are being roped in for maintenance. The agency will help keep road clean throughout the day," GHMC commissioner   told TOI.
 
 The roads on which private players will operate include Road No 36 Jubilee Hills; Road No 2 & 3 Banjara Hills; Road No 1 Banjara, from Nagarjuna circle to Masab Tank; Sardar Patel Road; MG Road, Secunderabad; Tank Bund; and roads near Secunderabad and Abids
 
 According to GHMC officials, the private firm that will maintain roads will collect garbage from shops, establishments and residences facing the main roads. The civic body will fix fees for door-to-door collection of garbage. The agency will also have to clean sidewalks and footpaths. "The private agency will be given powers to impose fine (special user fee) if anybody is found throwing garbage or debris on the road. The user fee will go to the operator or agency for maintenance of roads," a senior official of the GHMC said.
 
 Official said ensuring that posters, banners and flexies do not come up is a major task as most of this sort of work is done at night. Prospective firms will have to arrange night patrol vehicles (two-wheelers) so as to prevent people from defacing property. The private agency will be expected to upload photographs of roads through the mobile using GHMC's Off Site Real Time (OSRT) application. It will have to do this for every 100 metres at least four times a day.
 
 The GHMC health and sanitation wing will deploy its vehicles such as mechanized sweeping machines on main roads. The corporation plans not to deploy private sweepers on these roads.
 
 Reddy said the state government will also come up with similar solution for maintenance of roads soon. "There is a lack of coordination among government departments such as GHMC, Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board, Hyderabad Metro Rail and Southern Power Distribution Company Limited. They dig roads one after the other. This is leading bad roads especially main roads. Now a uniform body Hyderabad Road Development Corporation (HRDC) to end all these problems," the commissioner said.
 
