NAGPUR: Over 5.35 lakh citizens will have to pay property tax much more than anticipated in the new tax system. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started revaluation of existing properties that is likely to send the property tax northwards. Also, the civic body is going to recover the difference in amount of the last two fiscal which too will add to the financial burden on tax payers.

 As per the NMC property tax department’s data, the survey of around 1.25 lakh properties has been completed in the last one year. The department has details of over 3 lakh properties. 
 
 It plans to complete the revaluation of around 4.50 lakh properties by end of May. The revaluation of remaining properties will be completed by October.
 
 Revaluation has not been done in the last decade. The NMC will take stock of expansion in properties or change in user, location, ready reckoner value, renovation etc before arriving at the value of the property.
 
 The NMC had implemented new ready reckoner-based rateable value property tax from April 1, 2015. It is estimated that the property tax of existing properties will increase two-three times in the new system. After addition of revaluation amount, the property tax will increase further.
 
 The NMC has continued with the decision to recover the difference in amount of the last two fiscal, which is the difference in amount in the past and new systems. The civic body did not recover tax as per the new tax system in 2015-16 and 2016-17 fearing public outrage before the municipal elections.
 
 Assistant commissioner (property tax) Milind Meshram told TOI that the new tax system and revaluation will bring transparency in property tax. “The NMC will clear all controversies and disputes related to property tax. A private agency has been appointed to give real time data of properties to the NMC. It is surveying 1,300 properties every day,” he said.
 
 An assessment register of all properties will be prepared for the first time in the NMC’s history. “It will be made public. Suggestions and objections will be invited from property taxpayers before finalizing the demand note,” said Meshram.
 
 The NMC official added the formula for revaluation is being considered as the role model in the state. “The NMC’s revenue from property tax is likely to increase a great extent in the revaluation drive. The survey has revealed that around 30,000 properties are not under tax purview. Assessment of these properties is being done now. More such properties are likely to come to fore during the survey of the remaining areas,” said Meshram.
 
 This will be the third consecutive fiscal when the NMC has not been able to implement the issuance of six-monthly property tax demand notes. According to the new tax system, demand notes was supposed to be distributed in April and October to ensure convenience to the taxpayers and ensure revenue every month for the cash-strapped civic body.
 
