HYDERABAD: The city was in a state of chaos on Wednesday morning, after the unusually heavy hailstorm lashed parts of Hyderabad late on Tuesday night for about two hours.Hundreds of uprooted trees and branches were strewn across streets even as damaged electric wires lay hanging dangerously in various residential and commercial pockets. The sight of cars crushed under trees, torn billboards, broken flexis and damaged street lights were aplenty as were overflowing drains and water-logged bylanes.

 While the   pressed into action multiple teams to clear out the roads and attend to other civic issues, their job was only half done by the end of the day . Officials said that they would continue with restoration work on Thursday .
 
 Complaints of damage and severe inconvenience, poured in from across the twin cities with many residents reaching out to civic authorities through social networking sites in hope of help. If some reported flooded interiors, others rued how gusty winds left their glass doors and windows smashed. There were also complaints of an overpowering stench from some localities were sewage water gushed onto roads.
 
 “Broken tree branches damaged my compound wall completely . I was unable to take my car out from my parking lot and I had use public transport to get to work on Wednesday ,“ said Akber Hussain a resident of Jubliee Hills, Road Number 5, hoping that the GHMC attended to his problem at the earliest.
 
 In areas such as Sanjeev Reddy Nagar, Kukatpally, Balkampet and Begumpet, the situation was much the same. Many residents were com pelled to stay indoors because of blocked roads and flooded homes.
 
 “The basement of my building got flooded.There was no way that I could step out and get to work. It was only much later in the evening on Wednesday that we managed to find help to pump the water out,“ said Priyanka Singh, a resident of  .
 
 In low lying areas such as S R Nagar, the situation was much worse. Scores of families here were seen busy pumping out water from their cellars and houses either using motor pumps or buckets all through Wednesday . “The calamity has damaged my motorbike. There are many like me whose vehicles have been similarly affected,“ said Venkateshwar Rao, an accountant living in the area.
 
 Apart from homes, even hotels and hospitals in the city were badly hit by the downpour. The   in Somajiguda had its parking lot (level one and two) submerged in water.
 
 In Panjagutta, residents complained of a foul smell that kept lingering on till hours after the rains. “I had to keep my doors closed even during the morning due to foul smell. The situation was horrible,“ said Suresh Kumar.
 
 For residents of   near   , it was the snapped electricity wires that pushed them into a state of panic. Considering that the roads in the area were still partially flooded, locals feared that the damaged wires would lead to a bigger calamity if not cleared out immediately . “The wires were lying on the ground and the street was flooded. I was not sure if the concerned officials had disconnected the power supply or not. I asked everybody to step out very cautiously ,“ said Pavan Kumar Vanjari, a resident of the area.
 
 Damaged hoardings precariously hanging on electrical poles were seen in pockets such as Lakdi-ka-pul, Banjara Hills, Begumpet and Mossapet among other places and gave motorists navigating through this stretch the jitters.
 
 
