Mumbai: In yet another setback for  , the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal ( ) on Friday refused to stay an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) of   Sons’ shareholders scheduled on February 6 to discuss his removal as a director. Mistry has been a director of   since 2006. 

 NCLAT chairperson Justice S J Mukhopadhyay, hearing appeals filed by Mistry’s family-held firms against an order of NCLT’s Mumbai bench, asked the parties to consider an amicable settlement. 
 
 The Mumbai   bench had on January 31 made it clear that there was no stay on the Tata Sons EGM. 
 
 “Given the national importance of the matter”, the tribunal gave the parties 15 minutes to discuss the matter and come back. Tata Sons, through their counsel A M Singhvi, then said they were ready to keep a seat vacant on the board, subject to final outcome of the case in the tribunal, while the Mistry firms, through counsel C A Sundaram, said Mistry ought not to be removed as director and offered that he would not attend board meetings until the case was settled. The two sides could not agree on a settlement, but the court refused to stay the EGM. 
 
 On Thursday, Mistry’s family-held companies, Cyrus Investments and Sterling Investment, both minority shareholders of Tata Sons, had approached the appellate tribunal in Delhi to seek relief on three counts. One was a stay on the February 6 EGM, the second to set aside the Mumbai order of the NCLT, and third, to seek a waiver of Section 244 of the Companies Act, under which only shareholders with at least 10% stake can seek relief from NCLT. There was no relief on any of these counts.
 
 The Mistry camp which had filed a petition under the Companies Act citing mismanagement and oppression of rights as minority shareholders, also wanted to transfer the hearing of the matter to Delhi. But the NCLAT bench said if the Mistry firms wanted a hearing in Delhi, they would have to file a transfer petition separately. 
 
 With the NCLAT order copy likely to be out on Monday, it leaves little time for the Mistry side to move the Supreme Court for any relief as the Tata Sons shareholders meeting is scheduled for 3.30 pm that day. 
 
 A day after receiving the NCLT’s nine-page order in Mumbai, Mistry firms in an appeal running into hundreds of pages, filed through Delhi-based law firm Jaitley & Bakshi, claimed that the NCLT was in “extreme hurry” to hear the petition. Their appeal said “strictures” passed by the tribunal were unwarranted. The Mumbai tribunal had called their counsel’s insistence on an order on maintainability issue before arguing the main plea as “disobedience of earlier court orders”.
 
 
