Vadodara: The fate of 1,841 families, who lost their homes in Sanjaynagar in Warasiya, looks uncertain. 

 The land on which the dwellings stood in Sanjaynagar was vacated for slum rehabilitation but is now caught in bureaucratic wrangles with social welfare department unwilling to part with the land.
 
 At Sanjaynagar, the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) demolished 1,841 dwellings. As many as, 2,637 houses will be constructed at the Sanjaynagar for the urban poor under a public-private partnership project under the Pradhan Mantri Aavas Yojana (PMAY). The settlement was notified as a slum by the committee formed under the PMAY and the tenders for the same were also placed before the committee.
 
 The slums were razed by the civic body in July and the developer also started paying rent to the beneficiaries whose houses were razed by the civic body. The first roadblock came when it came to light that a major part of the land measuring over 89,000 sq m was earmarked for imparting agriculture training to inmates of a beggar’s home of the social welfare department. The land was never put to that use and slums existed at the site.
 
 But after the razing drive, the district collectorate wrote a letter to the social welfare department regarding the land. The department wrote back stating that it wanted to make a university for disabled persons at the site. This has put the VMC in a tight spot as it has already razed the houses there and there is no way it can start the scheme till it gets the possession of the land. Sources said that the developer too is not willing to bear the liability of paying the rent for a project that is uncertain.
 
 Sources in the civic body said that the issue has been raised at the highest level in the state government. Asked about the situation, VMC commissioner Vinod Rao said that the civic body was open to giving alternative land for the university that the social welfare department is planning. “We have discussed the issue with the concerned officials and are hopeful of a solution soon,” he said.
 
 
