NEW DELHI: The wave of consolidation sweeping the fiercely competitive Indian telecom market has seen   signing an agreement to acquire the money-losing operations of Norway's Telenor.

 The telecom business has witnessed hectic deal-making in recent times, particularly after the aggressive entry of  's   in September last year.
 
 Vodafone and   are already in merger talks, and the Airtel-Telenor deal only hastens the process of smaller carriers looking for an exit.
 
 The two companies did not disclose the size of the deal, which will see Airtel acquire Telenor India's operations in seven circles — Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh (East), UP (West) and Assam (it's yet to begin operations in the last one).
 
 While Airtel has the highest customer base in the country at nearly 27 crore subscribers, Telenor has around 4.4 crore users. The deal with Telenor will help Airtel strengthen its spectrum footprint in the circles as it adds 43.4 MHz spectrum in the 1800 MHz band, though also being obliged to make future payments towards the ownership of the airwaves.
 
 The companies said the acquisition was subject to regulatory approvals, and would include transfer of all of Telenor India's assets and customers. “On completion, the proposed acquisition will undergo seamless integration, both on the customer as well as the network side, and further strengthen our market position in several key circles,“ Gopal Vittal, MD & CEO of Airtel's India and South Asian operations, said.
 
 The proposed transaction will create substantial longterm value for shareholders, given the “significant synergies“, Vittal added.
 
 Jio's high-decibel entry into the telecom market, with lifetime free voice and limited period complementary data, has shaken the financials of the Indian telecom market. Airtel, Vodafone and Idea have often complained of stress on profitability and revenues because of Jio and  , chairman of Bharti Enterprises, has even accused the new entrant of engaging in backbreaking predatory pricing.
 
 Telenor said the decision to exit India was “not taken lightly“, but was seen as necessary in view of the difficult business case here. “After thorough consideration, it is our view that the significant investments needed to secure Telenor India's future business on a standalone basis would not have given an acceptable level of return,“ Sigve Brekke, CEO of Telenor Group, said.
 
 The company had been playing on the fringes for some time now and had even stayed out of the mega spectrum auctions last year as it sought to control cash burn in India.
 
 “We believe today's agreement is in the best interest of our customers, employees and Telenor Group. Finding a longterm solution to our India business has been a priority for us, and we are pleased with our agreement with Airtel,“ Brekke further said.
 
 Bloomberg said that the Norwegian company suffered an 11th straight quarterly loss at the of last year.
 
 As part of the agreement, Airtel will take over outstanding spectrum payments and other operational contracts, including tower lease.
 
