LUCKNOW/GORAKHPUR:   may soon be known for more than just its famous Gorakhnath temple, the religious seat of UP chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi. One of the most prominent cities in the economically backward region of eastern UP may, in fact, soon turn into a big ticket venue for water sports as well. 

 On Tuesday, state government made a provision of Rs 25 crore for development of   lake in the district to promote water sports. The development of lake had been on the cards ever since Yogi took reins of the country’s most populous state. Spreading across an area of around 1,500 acres, the lake is in the middle of the city.
 
 Besides development of Ramgarh lake, state government also made a budgetary provision of around Rs 20 crore for constructing a state of the art   in the district. The proposal for construction of an auditorium had been pending for long in the absence of requisite funds. “We are very excited after seeing the budget as development of water sports in Ramgarh lake will not only enhance huge tourism in the area but also it will attract a lot of investment in the area which will help in decreasing unemployment and also migration,’’ district tourism officer, Ravindra Misra, said. He said that the DPR of the water sports project at Ramgarh lake has been sent to Government and specialists from Goa have visited the place. 
 
 The city also got the nod for a new sugar mill proposed to be constructed at a cost of over Rs 273 crore. The new mill, with a cane crushing capacity of 3,500 tonnes per day will come up in place of a closed sugar mill in Pipraich. The crushing capacity would be increased gradually to 5,000 tonnes per day. “ The budget is balanced and development oriented and it has provision for sugar mills which is quite welcoming.” said DDU Gorakhpur University, Prof Ajeya Gupta.
 
 The east UP district is also likely to get a slice of budgetary provision of Rs 288 crores provisioned from the metro rail projects in four cities of the state.
 
 
