BHOPAL: The cash-starved MP government is estimated to incur a loss of about Rs 96 crore per annum if it shuts down 58   spread across 16 districts along the river Narmada. 

 Excise commissioner Arun Kochar said, "The 58 shops which fall within the radius of five kilometers of the Narmada stream, include both country-made liquor shops as well as Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) shops." He added that the government was earning Rs 96 crore from these shops. In all there are 3,683 liquor shops in MP at present.
 
 In a Cabinet meeting on Monday, the   government announced its decision to close down these shops and draw up a list of customers who buy liquor frequently.
 
 Addressing the Narmada Yatra at Hoshangabad city located on the banks of the river, chief minister Chouhan on Monday reiterated that liquor shops falling within a radius of five kilometers of Narmada will be closed down. Last year, the   issued orders not to renew licenses of liquor shops which are located within 500 metres from state or national highways.
 
 The MP government will soon be sending its officials to Gujarat and Bihar to study the impact of prohibition. Political observers maintain that Chouhan seems to have taken a cue from Bihar chief minister   who launched a 'sharab bandi' (no-liquor) campaign in Barwani district in September last year. Dr Sunilam, national convenor for the campaign, said 27 districts have already been covered by his team -- which is asking people to give up liquor.
 
 Liquor shop contractors and traders in the state are obviously not happy by the government's decision, although they did not want to come out in the open on such a subject. Surprised by the government's decision to prepare a list of those who buy booze regularly, liquor contractors termed it a "political stunt". One businessmen went a step ahead to term it as "partial prohibition".
 
 Dinesh Rai Munmun, an Independent MLA from Seoni, who was in the liquor business before he joined politics, said, "This is 'nautanki' by the government. Why can't the chief minister simply announce prohibition in MP?"
 
