PATNA: Not only ministers and legislators, but two principal secretary rank IAS officials had also sent messages to former   (BSSC) secretary   for doing favours to their candidates in the appointment as auxiliary nurse midwife.

 Sources part of the investigation into the BSSC examination paper leak said Parmeshwar was asked to select one Neetu Kumari (roll number 31615042), who is a kin of a 1987 batch IAS official. “In the SMS, the senior IAS official explained to Parmeshwar that the candidate, his brother’s wife, has been working on contract as an auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) for the past five years and asked to extend maximum possible help to the candidate for her permanent selection,” said a source, adding that through the SMS, the IAS official also informed Parmeshwar that the candidate’s interview was scheduled on January 9. 
 
 Earlier, the names of former RJD MP  , state cooperative minister Alok Mehta, law minister Krishna Nandan Verma, JD (U) MLA Ram Balak Singh and BJP MLA Suresh Sharma also surfaced for asking Parmeshwar to favour their chosen candidates.
 
 “Probably, everyone had an idea that there was corruption in the BSSC and people in power took advantage of the situation to seek favours for their favourite ones,” said a senior police official.
 
 The names of the ministers, former MPs and other politicians brought Bihar police under pressure after which Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj had to address a press conference to clarify that the special investigation team (SIT) of Patna police probing the   was working without pressure. Even DGP PK Thakur had said no inference could be drawn from the SMSs as the results for recruitment of ANM were not declared yet.
 
 The BSSC has already wrapped up counselling of candidates for filing up around 7,000 ANM posts and details of several candidates were found in Parmeshwar’s cellphone. However, sources said the ANM results would not be declared until a new chairman and secretary take charge of the commission.
 
 The SIT had arrested the then BSSC chairman Sudhir Kumar, a 1987 batch IAS official, on February 24 for his alleged involvement in the scam while another IAS official C K Anil, posted as OSD in the BSSC, is not appearing for interrogation before the SIT. 
 
