MADURAI/ CHENNAI: Old is Gold seems to be very true, when it comes to yesteryear Tamil hit films. They are not only bringing the crowds to the theatres, but some of them are also having long runs in their new digital avatar and giving new films a run for their money at times.

 ‘Rajapart Rangathurai’, a 1973 film revolving around the happenings in a stage drama artist’s life with actor   in the lead, has completed 50 days in a theatre in Madurai and forty days in another in Nagercoil. On Friday, MGR’s 1969 hit film, ‘Adimai Penn’ is set for release at a few theatres in Chennai.
 
 It will be competing for attention with new films ‘Vikram Vedha’ and ‘Geminiganesanum Surulirajanum’ in the post-GST era, which has seen ticket prices going up by 18 & 28 per cent since last Friday. In fact, another Sivaji Ganesan film, ‘Sivagamiyin Selvan’, a remake of Hindi super hit, ‘Aaradhana’, completed 100 days in re-run on July 12, 2016 at a theatre in Chennai.
 
 With a large number of fans and family audience, Rajapart Rangathurai’ ran to packed audience in the weekends at Sri Meenakshi Paradise in South Veli Street. With the movie crossing 50 days, Sivaji Ganesan fans and theatre owner joined hands to celebrate the moment. Biryani was served for the audience on Sunday earlier this week. 
 
 Ramesh Babu, a 64-year-old movie buff, says he has watched   seven times after the re-release and three times in Meenakshi Paradise alone. Although they get to watch such movies on TV, it was a special experience to watch it in a theatre with friends, he says. Manager of Sri Meenakshi Paradise B Pandi said while the first few weeks saw all the four shows running full house, the number of shows was brought down and two shows are screened a day now. “From the success we have seen, we are planning to screen one show until 100 days,” he said. 
 
 The trend actually started in 2012 when Sivaji Ganesan’s ‘Karnan’ was re-released in digital format in about 72 centres across the state. It completed 25 days in 30 centres, 50 days in nine, 75 days in six screens, 100 days in two and 155 days in Chennai.
 
 What makes such films click even now? “If you take ‘Karnan’, it is based on the Karna character in Mahabharatha. It had a good script, great songs and fabulous acting by Sivaji Ganesan. Above all, we also put in great efforts in reviving it in the digital format and we ensured that every sound and music byte was reproduced in the same original quality,” explains Divya Films’ Chokkalingam, who pioneered the digital format re-run business. “While I paid a royalty of only Rs 3 lakh for the film, I spent close to Rs 40 lakhs for converting it in digital format and spent another Rs 70 lakh on publicity,” he added. Chokkalingam himself went on to re-release MGR’s ‘Aayirathil Oruvan’, which also had Jayalalithaa in the lead role, in 2014 in 120 screens. The film had to face several hurdles before its release, which happened during the   election campaign, which limited the publicity. 
 
 Even though it celebrated silver jubilee (25 weeks) in a theatre in Chennai, it had a mixed response commercially. Some in the industry even term the film’s long-run as a “forced run” to appease the then chief minister, J Jayalalithaa. Nevertheless it set off a trend and more individuals entered the fray. Subsequently, Sivaji Ganesan’s ‘Paasamalar’, ‘Thiruvilaiyaadal’, ‘Vasantha Maaligai’ and MGR’s ‘Ninaithadhai Mudippavan’ and ‘Rikshakaaran’ swarmed theatres across the state. But, not all had successful runs, though they re-ignited a sense of nostalgia for the respective fans.
 
 G Sundarajan, an old movies distributor and passionate Sivaji fan in Madurai says movies like Vasantha Maligai (re-released in 2013), Pasamalar (re-released in 2014)   (re-released in 2015), Paava Mannippu (re-released in 2016) are among a few movies that had gone well with the audiences. 
 
 “Not all old films have successful re-runs. Only a few did,” Abirami Ramanathan, president, Tamil Nadu Theatre Owners Federation told TOI. “How old films were made itself could be a lesson for the youngsters today. If you take ‘Adimai Penn’, MGR fought with a real lion in the climax. It was not only about acting and action, but also bravery. Further, these old films had beautiful songs, since the makers respected the lyrics and kept the sound in the background,” he added.
 
