New Delhi: Shweta always wanted to walk the  . But she was ‘different’ from the rest, so it was unthinkable for many that she could realise her dream. She is a transgender. 

 There are thousands like her in the capital who have had to drop out of schools due to peer pressure or have to do menial jobs as more ‘dignified’ professions don’t welcome them. But on Friday evening, Shweta and many others like her got the rare opportunity to flaunt their identity. In a fashion show called ‘Ticket to Bollywood’, they walked the ramp dressed as their favourite stars like Madhuri Dixit, Sridevi and  . 
 
 Organised by NGO SPACE (Society for People’s Awareness Care and Empowerment), the event aimed at providing the community a platform to showcase their talent. But it isn’t that they only walked the ramp, there were dance performances too. The crowd of 600 swayed to iconic numbers like ‘Dum maaro dum’ and ‘Chori chori chupke chupke’. 
 
 “Even we want to perform on stage. Even we dream of acting or dancing but it is very difficult for   to gain acceptance or even get a chance to perform anywhere. This event gave us a chance to showcase our talent. People need to see that we are no different from the rest,” said Shweta, who dressed up as Sridevi to perform the iconic ‘Kaatein nahi kat te’ number from the movie Mr India.
 
 Alisha dressed up as Karisma Kapoor as many would often tell her that she looks like her. “We are very happy such an event took place as it removes stigma and clears misconceptions about transgenders. We are just as talented as other people and we need a platform to show that,” she said. 
 
 The event also saw the launch of another project meant for schools to sensitise them to transgenders through workshops and booklets. Called ‘Purple Board’, this will be implemented at 15 schools around the capital.
 
 “I feel proud that the organisation has been able to raise the self-esteem and confidence of the transgender community through such an event. The Purple project will be carried to both private and public schools,” said Rupika Dhillon, director, SPACE.
 
 Among the other ‘actresses’ who performed were Sonakshi Sinha,  , Rani Mujherjee, Zeenat Aman and Mamta Kulkarni. The event was also attended by officials from the Netherlands embassy and north corporation. “Acceptance of the third gender is the first step in any country and India has done that, although social acceptance may take many years,” said Petra Smulders, first secretary (political affairs), Netherlands embassy.
 
 
