SURAT: Investigation into extortion calls to a BJP leader in Navsari revealed that gangster Ravi Pujari was running the extortion directly from outside India. Pujari’s man Arvind alias Ajay Mohan Goswami, formerly working for gangster Vicky Goswami, was executing the orders while in South  . Police arrested two more men on Friday for their alleged involvement in the crime.

 Police on Friday confirmed that Pujari himself had called BJP leader   last week and said he will take revenge. Pujari threatened of dire consequences as Hormaz Awari had got his men arrested.
 
 “Police have sent the audio recording of Pujari to Mumbai police and got it verified that the voice was of the gangster. The call was made by Pujari directly since his entire plan was busted by police,” said  , IGP, Surat range.
 
 On Friday police arrested Paras Naik, 50, resident of Surat and his aid Muzaffar Zafar Abbas Maulavi, 45, resident of Mumbai. They were nabbed from Goa while on the run. They had escaped after first two arrests in the case.
 
 Police investigation revealed that Paras had developed contact with Goswami and Pujari. He was in contact with the gangsters since last few years and put the other accused in touch with the gangsters.
 
 “Arrest of Paras Naik is a major breakthrough for police. We are likely to make some more arrests,” said Nirlipt Rai, in-charge SP, Navsari.
 
 Police had earlier arrested Akhtar Kasam Ali Merchant, 52, from Mumbai, on Wednesday for allegedly helping Paras. On February 26, police had arrested Keyur alias Kanji Desai of Jamalpor and Naresh Ahir, of Navagam Adada village in Navsari.
 
 In February, Hormaz Awari lodged a complaint with police after he received calls from Pujari gang asking him to convince his friend and BJP leader Lalvani and his brother Shankar to pay Rs 5 crore extortion money. 
 
 The caller threatened Awari of dire consequences if the money was not paid. Premchand is a BJP councillor in Navsari municipality and a leading developer. Lalvani brothers had received extortion calls in January too in which police had arrested two persons from Navsari.
 
