GREATER NOIDA: Near-zero visibility caused by dense fog led to at least five accidents in and around Greater Noida on Monday, killing six people on the spot. The blinding conditions also caused a 12-vehicle pile-up on the   in which several people were injured.

 The first fatal crash also took place on the expressway early morning when a truck carrying chillies from Agra smashed through the railing near   and fell into a ditch. The driver, Abid, apparently could not spot the turn.
 
 “Abid died on the spot while co-driver Mufeed was ad mitted to Kailash Hospital in serious condition,“ Knowledge Park SHO Manish Sharma said.
 
 Around 7.30am, a bike on which three youths were riding crashed into a tractortrolley on Khurja Road. Two of the riders were killed while the third received serious injuries. The dead were identified as Jitendra, 23, and Harish, 21. They were from Dastampur village in Jewar tehsil. Jewar SHO Ajay Kumar told TOI that the youths were taking a turn near an underpass when the tractor-trolley hit them.
 
 The pile-up on the expressway was caused when swirling fog led to a car slowing down near the Highway Masala eatery . It was hit from behind. Soon, other vehicles smashed into the crashed cars. Six-seven vehicles were stuck on the Noida-Agra carriageway . No major injuries were reported,“ the Jewar SHO said.
 
 In the third fatal accident, a 35-year-old dhaba employee in Jewar was hit by an unidentified vehicle near the Jewar interchange around 9am, police said. The worker, Sanjay, a resident of Sabota village, died on the spot.
 
 In the fourth case, Sandeep Nagar (25), a factory worker, was killed when a pick-up van rammed his motorcycle from behind while he was travelling on Dankaur-Sikandrabad road.Dankaur SHO Rajpal Tomar said the accident occurred around 5.30am in Kanarsi village and the pick-up van fell on one side of the road. The villagers, who gathered at the spot, alleged that the police made no attempt to take Sandeep to hospital and instead hid his body at the police station.
 
 Circle officer II, Abhinan dan Singh, however, told TOI that the body was sent for post mortem and there was no attempt to hide it. “These kind of cases are sensitive, so people get angry . An FIR has been lodged, the driver will be arrested once he is identified,“ he said.
 
 In yet another case, 24-year-old Honey was killed when an unidentified vehicle hit him on Yamuna expressway near Mirzapur village of Dankaur area. He was on his way to Dankaur from   district.
 
 The police attributed the accidents to dense fog even as the Met department confirmed that January 29 was one of the most foggy days so far this year. “The visibility saw a huge drop on January 29. It remained between 0 to 50 meters from 3.30 am to 8.30 am on Monday ,“ an official at Palam observatory told TOI.
 
 
