The Greeks called it “borborygmi”, which is also a medical term for   growling. This is a noise which doesn’t exactly come from the stomach but originates when excessive gas moves back and forth in the intestines.

 Our belly usually growls when we are hungry and our blood sugar level starts to dip. The growling sound is an indication that we need to feed the stomach to help intestines get the required   from the blood. As soon as we eat something, it calms down the growling noise and our digestive system gets focused on absorbing the food rather than moving the air around.
 
 But now the question arises, how does this air get trapped inside our digestive tracts? Well, if you talk while eating, that's believed to be one of the primary reasons. Talking while eating allows air to enter our digestive tract. Along with this, eating too fast or drinking excessive fluids while working out also enable air to enter our body.
 
 
 
 
 The process that sends signals to your body about the hungry stomach is called migrating motor complex (MMC) process. This means that our stomach and intestines get engaged in sensing the absence of food in the body. Thus, receptors in the stomach wall create waves of electrical activity and trigger hunger. Remember, a poor MMC functioning can lead to vomiting, indigestion, abdominal pain and nausea.
 
 
 
 
 Yes, not only when you are craving food but some of you must have experience growling when your stomach is full. Many may not notice it as the sound is relatively low. This growling is the result of undigested food, due to which our gut starts to produce gases.
 
 
 
 
 Usually, the noisy stomach is not considered a major health issue. But in case you experience increased growling problem, it may be a symptom of indigestion, irritable bowel syndrome or even a bout of diarrhea.
 
 
 
 
 If you have a sweet tooth, then the noise that your stomach makes can be embarrassingly loud. This is due to the reason that excessive amount of sugar in the body can cause flatus, resulting in increased intestinal noise.
 
 
 
 
 There are certain ways you can prevent stomach growling, like:
 
 
 
 
