KOLKATA: Actor   Chatterjee was driving the sedan at a speed of between 95kmph and 105kmph when it crashed on   and led to model   Singh Chauhan’s death on April 29, investigators have gleaned from the car’s Event Data Rec-order (EDR). Cops also managed to convince four of Vikram’s and Sonika’s common friends to appear in front of a magistrate on Thursday and give their account of the actor’s and the model’s last few hours leading up to the crash.

 Both developments, taken together, indicate the broad direction the investigation may be taking in the case, say officials. “The EDR data will bolster possible charges of over-speeding and the frie-nds’ statements to a magistr-ate, recounting Vikram’s and Sonika’s visit to multiple pubs on the night of April 28, may help in proving that he consumed alcohol before tak-ing the wheel that night,” an investigator said.
 
 Forensic experts conducted their third test on Vik-ram’s car on Thursday morning and analysed the data from the car’s EDR. This test revealed that the Toyota Cor-olla Altis was travelling at a speed of between 95kmph and 105kmph seconds before the crash. The test also indicated that Vikram had applied the brakes six seconds prior to or immediately after hitting the divider on the car’s right. He then lost control over the car as it swerved left because of the impact. 
 
 “It was this condition that could have led Vikram to claim that his car wheel suddenly got locked as it veered left,” an officer said.
 
 The second development — the investigators’ success in convincing four of Vikram’s and Sonika’s friends to appear before a magistrate and give their confidential statements — could be as significant. These statements, recorded under Section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code, are admissible as evidence in court. “The four women recorded their statements in a span of one-and-a-half hours before 7th judicial magistrate   at the Alipore court. They recounted the activities of both the actor and the model at three south Kolkata pubs hours before the crash,” an official said.
 
 “All this will be critical in helping us determine whether harsher charges can be slapped against the actor in the final charge sheet and whether they will stand scrutiny in court,” he added.
 
 Thursday’s forensic test of the car was the first time that Toyota engineers from Chennai and Bangalore were part of the group that examined the car. “The Toyota engineers retrieved the EDR for us,” said an officer. Besides ascertaining how fast the car was being driven, a lot of time was spent to explain why the car hit a divider on its right but the person sitting on the left died.
 
 Investigators also managed to speak to three more persons who could be crucial links to what happened in the run-up to the crash. They include an app cab driver, who was reportedly booked by Vikram to take Sonika to Ruby Hospital. The other two are emergency medical officers at Ruby Hospital. They were questioned on the injuries that the actor and his friend received that night. Officials said Ruby Hospital authorities cooperated all through. 
 
 The cops also spoke to two of Vikram’s friends, taking the total number of people quizzed so far to 22.
 
