There is a strong need for India and   to not just strengthen existing bilateral relations, but also explore new areas of interest and cooperation, said Portugal's PM Antonio   on Wednesday. Speaking to   in an exclusive interview, Costa suggested that the two countries could explore opportunities in the field of renewable energy, ocean sciences and tourism along with cultural engagement.

 Costa, who traces his roots to Margao, a South Goa town, is on a three-day official visit to the state. The 55 year-old PM took time out to release a translation of his father's work No Flowers, No Wreaths and spoke to TOI on the sidelines of the event.
 
 Given that his father Orlando da Costa grew up in Goa, Costa was at a loss to explain how emotional the trip back to India and, more importantly , Goa were to him. “This was not any other official trip. My father was here and he introduced me to this culture through food, history , the stories he told us and photographs of the family ,“ he said.
 
 Costa went on to add that this same culture and history could form the foundation for collaboration and cooperation for the two countries.
 
 “The two countries have to strengthen and deepen existing areas of cooperation and simultaneously open up new areas of cooperation for the economy,“ Costa said. Exuding warmth and clearly comfortable in Goa, Costa suggested that Portugal was open to collaborating with India in the fields of defence, agriculture, oceanography as well as culture and heritage.
 
 Costa often breached his security ring, sending his bodyguards and Goa police into a tizzy , as he walked the streets of  , shaking hands with locals, guests and strangers, who attended a tribute to him on behalf of Goa's civil society. According to the Portuguese head of state, the mainstays where Portugal and India could collaborate were science and economy . “Economy and science are the two main pillars and the pathway to the future for India and Portugal,“ Costa said.
 
 When asked if there were specific areas of interest that the two countries could focus on, Costa put tourism and preservation of cultural heritage at the top. “Sanitation and water management is another area.The big investments India is doing in infrastructure is another area where joint efforts can be made,“ he said. Given that Portugal is at the forefront in renewable energies, Costa said joint efforts in renewable energy offered scope for joint work. “When we look to the future, there is a lot to do together. Joint effort in renewable energy is there, so if you look to future there are many avenues,“ Costa said.
 
 Clearly nostalgic about his Goan roots, Costa emphasized on his role as a Goan origin head of state in the EU. Portugal's 450-year-old rule over Goa was a strong point of confluence for the two cultures, which could be harnessed, Costa suggested. “We have to take advantage of the common heritage for everything that it can bring for us in the future. This is a unique opportunity because we have known each other for years, not to say centuries,“ he said.
 
 Earlier in the day , after inaugurating the new premises of Centro de Lingua Portugesa, Camoes, Costa surprised employees of the electricity department who had gathered outside Vidyut Bhavan.
 
 “I had the chance to know my grandmother Amelia, who was born in Margao, and she also told me stories of the family and the place. Goa has always been a part of my universe since I was born,“ Costa shared.
 
 (With inputs from Nigel Britto)
 
