Shiv Sena MP Ravindra Gaikwad, who assaulted an   on Thursday, has unwittingly hastened the process of India getting its own   that will stop unruly passengers from boarding flights.

 Jayant Sinha, the minister of state for aviation who has been working on such a list, told TOI on Friday that incidents like this “just accelerate“ the process. In fact, all the scheduled carriers' decision on Friday to bar Gaikwad from their flights, in effect, gave India its very own -but unofficial -no-fly list.
 
 “There is a larger systemic set of issues that has to be addressed. We have been considering the digital travel initiative as well as the ability to identify and track passengers. We have received inputs from many stakeholders about how best to put this mechanism together. Those scenarios have been mapped out,“ said Sinha.
 
 Countries like the US that have no-fly lists bar passengers from boarding any airline. In fact, airlines are alerted the moment a person who is not supposed to fly books a ticket.
 
 Indian carriers now want the government to come out with its list at the earliest. The government is working on grading unruly acts by flyers and accordingly barring them from flying again for a period ranging from some months to a few years.
 
 “In the interest of the safety and security of our colleagues and other customers, we also propose the promulgation of a `no-fly' list which will include the names of all unruly passengers. Such customers are not welcome on our carriers and we seek the support of the government and security agencies to enforce such a `no-fly' list,“ said Ujjwal Dey of the Federation of Indian Airlines (FIA), which counts IndiGo, Jet Airways, SpiceJet and GoAir as its members, in a joint statement for FIA and Air India on Friday . Vistara and AirAsia too decided to bar Gaikwad in solidarity .
 
 “Disruptive and abusive behaviour by passengers is a serious issue and cannot be tolerated... We also fully support the promulgation of a `no-fly' list,“ said a Vistara spokesperson.
 
 The concept of no-fly list has emanated from the US where the federal government's Terrorist Screening Center maintains a list of peo ple who are barred from boarding commercial flights into and out of America, and even those that cross its airspace.
 
 To implement such a system in India, domestic flyers will need to give some identity proof -like Aadhar number, PAN, passport or driving licence numbers -at the time of booking air tickets. For international tickets, passport numbers and visa details have to be given.
 
 “We will make providing some government ID at the time of booking or linking a PNR to an identity proof man datory and this will enable us to track travellers. Once this is done, we will have an Indian version of the no-fly list -a dynamic list where people found to have acted in unruly , disruptive or dangerous fashion on flights will keep being added. If such a person books a ticket, it will automatically alert agencies that such a person will try to fly and be stopped from doing so,“ said a source.
 
 In the US, if a person is on the no-fly list and books a ticket, an alert is automatically sounded. India got its first taste of this too on Friday. After AI cancelled Ravindra Gaikwad's ticket for Friday evening's Delhi-Pune flight, he tried booking an IndiGo flight.The ticket on IndiGo was also cancelled when the budget airline discovered who was trying to fly.
 
