NASHIK: City-based   and life coach   has successfully scaled   at Tanzania in Africa — the highest freestanding mountain and one of the seven most challenging summits in the world standing tall at 5,895m.

 Talware was among an eight-member team, including seven women, who achieved the feat. She was the only woman member from Maharashtra, while the other six women, including fashion designer  , were from Delhi. The lone male trekker was from Dubai.
 
 Back home after last month’s summit, Vasundhara said climbing   was like a trek from the equator to the North Pole in a week. “The temperatures ranged from -3 degrees celsius to 9 degrees celsius and lack of oxygen made every step laborious. Our group moved cautiously and reached Uhuru peak,” she said.
 
 “The walk through an ocean of green forest surrounded by dry Savannah, dramatic changes in vegetation and animal life, to the snow-covered mountain top on the equator was a mesmerizing sight yet a challenging experience,” said Vasundhara, who has been a solo traveller since 2005 but hadn't been to Africa before. She had been climbing mountains and knew that Kilimanjaro was one of the seven highest peaks in the world.
 
 “We started trekking at 2,250m. It was blazing hot. We took the northern route to climb up. We took the longer route for acclimatisation. Every day, we used to walk for 7-8 hours and then camp in a particular place. Our day used to start at 5.30am and we would have our tea at 6am and breakfast at 6.30am. The climbing would start from 8am and we would reach the next camp site at 3pm-4pm. We used to pack snack, lunch and three litres of water, which would last till 3 pm. After dinner at 6pm, we drank very less water so that we would have uninterrupted eight hours of sleep. A sound sleep, enough water and high carb food every two hours were a must to finish the trek successfully,” Vasundhara said.
 
 The trekkers witnessed five ecosystems along the way — rainforest, heather, moorland, alpine desert and Arctic snowcap — along the dormant volcanic mountain. The two things that made her journey a pleasant one were her regular yoga practice and Vipassana meditation, without which, her first such attempt to scale this height would have been a difficult one. “My regular habit of brisk walking, yoga and pranayam helped me. I continued yoga, stretches and pranayam every morning even during the trek. Everyone else complaimed of had nausea, headache and oxygen problems. But I didn’t face any problem. The guides had oxygen cylinders, but none of us needed it,” she recalled.
 
 The biggest challenge she faced was just before 100-150ft from the final destination when Vasundhara felt breathless. 
 
 “A guy pulled down my winter mask, which helped me. We went from very hot temperature to freezing cold temperature. We had covered ourselves well. On the last day, we started the trek at 12am from 4,300m altitude. We walked very slow with torches on our heads till 5,900 metres. The oxygen level was very low. It was freezing cold but we had to sip water and go to the toilet every two hours. That night we carried four litres water. We could not stop because we would feel cold. At 8am, we reached the peak. It was a mesmerizing experience. The way down was more difficult. It was almost a never-ending 8.5hour trek from 5,900m to 3,600m. This mountain stands on the Equator but still has snow on the top,” she said.
 
