LUCKNOW: The foundation of General Neil’s Gate at Kaiserbagh in Lucknow rests on a story of revenge that kept the flame of  , India’s first war of Independence, alive. The hero in this story was  , a soldier in the second regiment Central India Horse, who killed his commander Major AHS Neil in Augur to avenge the brutal murder of his father. 

 The story, however, begins in 1857 when Neill’s father General Neil served as the commanding officer in Kanpur, while Mazar’s father Suffar Ali was a dafadaar under him. Suffar Ali participated in the uprising and was accused of beheading General Wheeler at the Sattichaura ghat when the latter was trying to escape from Kanpur.
 
 “Suffar Ali was tried and sentenced to death under the summary orders of General Neil.... Before being hanged, Suffar Ali was taken to Bibighar and made to clean up the assigned area of the blood-stained floor by licking the blood with his tongue,” wrote British officer William Forbes Mitchell in Reminiscences of the Great Mutiny, 1857‑59. 
 
 Citing Mitchell, historian Roshan Taqui said, “Just before his hanging, Suffar Ali abjured every Muslim present in the crowd who had assembled to watch the execution to have a message sent to his infant son, Mazar Ali, about his disgraceful demise from the world at the hands of General Neill. In his last message to his son, Suffar Ali said that he must avenge his father’s death by killing General Neil or any of his descendants.”
 
 Later, Mazar Ali joined the   and served under Major Neil for many years not knowing that he was the son of General Neill whom his father had cursed. The Major, on his part, treated Mazar Ali with kindness.
 
 One day when Mazar Ali was lying ill in a hospital, a fakir came to meet him. He told him of his father’s dying message and added that it was the decree of fate that Mazar Ali should shoot Major Neil, son of General Neil. Mazar Ali obeyed the fakir’s message and shot dead Major Neil during a parade the next day. The year was 1887. Mazar Ali was tried and sentenced to death.
 
