With the last month of the Malayalam calendar,  , already with us, the chants of Ramayana has begun echoing from homes and temples. The season won’t be complete without the age-old tradition of having  , the bitter rice gruel mixed with herbs, that surprisingly is a hit with the youth too albeit in refreshed avatars.
The special preparation, which was said to aid digestion and boost immunity, has been getting a modern twist – thanks to the ready mix varieties and food experimentation.
 Kochi-based food blogger Parvathy B Nair has been experimenting with different varieties of the Karkidakam kanji. “It’s not convenient for people or students to pack kanji to the office or school. So, the basic idea was to make it so that it’s easier to carry in a lunch box,” she says. 
 For this purpose, the entrepreneur says that she’s retained the navara rice, which is used for preparing the gruel, and use the herbs to make side dishes. “I make thoran using the ingredients such as thalu (wild colocasia leaves), takara (cassia tora sickle pod), choriyanam (tragia involuvrate) and cow pea leaves – all of which are basically used in the karikada kanji,” she says, adding that other forms such as smoothies and baked snacks using the items of ready mix karikidaka kanji kit too find many takers.
 Supporting her, wellness consultant Linda Rakesh from Thripunithura says, “Right now, people are more conscious about their health and so they often seek healthy recipes.” As it’s become tough to prepare karikadaka kanji like in the past, because it takes time to gather all the ingredients, Linda says more people now opt for the ready-mix packets that are supplied by health centres.
 Allaying fears that these may contain harmful substances as against the old style kanji, Dr K Madhusoodhanam, from Thrissur, says, “The kanji can be made using different ingredients – upto 24 herbs were used in the past. Most of the ready mix varieties use ingredients which are available easily.”
 Each ingredient and the resulting version of the gruel will have its own benefit, he says. “For instance, a kanji with a kanjithoova is good for healing external bruises while those with deshapushpam will improve your immunity and digestion,” says the Ayurveda doctor.
 Dr Madhusoodhanan explains that homemade varieties of kanji are prepared using the juice of the crushed ingredients. “This makes it more bitter, and hence people add jaggery to make it palatable for kids while the elders prefer the bitter taste. These days even kakkumkaya is used to make it more tasty,” he says.
 Another popular version is the oushada kanji, which is now included in health packages for tourists. “This variety uses all 24 herbs and hence is more beneficial as it improves the overall health,” he says.
 For Thiruvananthapuram-based techie Anu Thulasi, who has Karkidaka kanji whenever she has digestive problems, says that this season is the best to have the rice porridge. “I have it whenever I am ill as it’s available at a health café in Thiruvananthapuram. However, in Karkidakom, the gruel tastes less bitter because the herbs are fresh,” she says. 
 The availability of the ready-mix variety throughout the year also reflects the lifestyle of the people. “Earlier, people used to have the gruel only once a month and that was enough to detox their bodies. However, these days, regular detox is required because of the bad eating habits and sedentary lifestyle,” Linda says.
 
 
