 100 was extremely busy on Holi, with thousands of people, including furious ‘anti-Holi’ Delhiites, calling the Police Control Room asking them to immediately intervene and provide a solution to their   woes. Of the 36,000 calls received between 2pm and 7pm on Monday, over 60% were the ones where no action was required. The officials at the PCR said that these complainants demanded ‘arrest of their neighbours for throwing water balloons, knocking on the door, etc.’ They also received calls from inebriated Delhiites who wished the cops ‘Happy Holi’.

 
 
 Not everyone appreciates being dragged out of his/her home on Holi or celebrating with strangers. People dialed 100 even to report over-enthusiastic neighbours knocking at their doors.  , special commissioner (Operations) and Delhi Police spokesperson, says, "We get a number of calls where people say, ‘My neighbour is knocking at my door, please help.’ Now, what action can we take for such calls? Over 50-60% calls that we receive on Holi are for trivial issues where we can’t take any action."
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Pathak says, “In fact, those who do not like colours also make calls to the control room and say, 'Kisi ne balloon fenka', ‘Kisi ne rang daala…’ These are examples of in-between calls – these are not taken lightly and we take action depending on the seriousness of the issue. Most of the times people take offense at these and get into fights, and then, we have to take action. In cases of fights, we have to send a PCR van and inform the local police so that the brawl doesn’t get out of control.”
 
 
  
  The helpline number 100 gets a lot of calls every day, but on Holi, the number is even higher and ranges from complaints of eve-teasing to prank calls by intoxicated people, Delhi police officials tell us (picture for representational purpose only)
 
 
 
 
 There is no limit to the number of issues people make calls for. Pathak says, "Some people don’t like dhol and music playing in their society and make calls to the PCR asking for immediate action. But what action can be taken against people for playing music on Holi?"
 
 The helpline number 100 gets a lot of calls every day, but on Holi, the number is even higher and ranges from complaints of eve-teasing to prank calls by intoxicated people. An official from the control room said, "A majority of the calls weren’t actionable. Also, there were a number of prank calls, blank calls and people calling for no reason."
 
 
 
 The police also get calls from intoxicated revelers who can’t even state a reason for calling. Pathak says, "Their speech is not clear, they mutter words and then hang up. Such calls increase after 4-5pm.We take action depending upon the nature of the call. The DCPs and other staff members have spent whole days and nights on Holi attending these calls and have taken action whenever required.' Police also say that they received calls where somebody just wanted to say ‘hello’ or wish a Happy Holi.
 
