NEW DELHI/KOLKATA: The Union government on Friday clarified any tripartite talks involving the Centre, state and the   (GTA) can be held only after peace has been restored in the region.

 Parliamentary affairs minister   told the Lok Sabha: “First normalcy should be restored and then the way forward could be prepared in consultation with all the stakeholders.”
 
 Bengal Governor Keshari Nath Tripathi also told a delegation of Hills parties that normalcy should return for any dialogue to resume.
 
 In doing so, the Centre only resonated the Mamata Banerjee-led government’s repeated assertions that talks can’t be held at gunpoint and peace should precede any dialogue. The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha has made it clear it will only talk to the Centre about Gorkhaland.
 
 The Union minsiter’s statement came after CPM MP Md Salim raised the issue in the Zero Hour, accusing Mamata of trying to impose her will on language and other governance affairs on the Hills people. The central government cannot remain quiet, he said, asking it to call for a tripartite meeting.   MPs, who were in Kolkata to attend the July 21 rally, were not present in the House during the deliberations.
 
 The Union minister also took a dig at the CM, saying the situation was turning “serious” and all efforts should be made to restore peace in the region. He said the situation had flared up due to the “attitude of the chief minister”.
 
 The CM on Friday reiterated the she will solve the Darjeeling crisis, hitting out at the Centre for perpetrating it in the first place. “I will bring peace in the Hills. This is a game Delhi is playing. However, the game will not last long. I will bring peace to the people. Keep faith in me,” she said. “Do not try to scare us off. I have seen enough of them ( ),” she added.
 
 Raising the ante, Mamata asked her party workers to ensure a Trinamool win in the August 13 Dhupguri municipal polls. With the GJM eyeing a toehold in Terai and Dooars, the CM told party workers not to concede an inch. She even asked her party leadership in the Hills to collectively lead the TMC campaign for the municipal polls. “I want you to win. Do not let them get anywhere close to it,” the chief minister said without naming GJM.
 
 Incidentally, Bijoy Chandra Burman, the Jalpaiguri MP, and former GNLF MLA-turned-Trinamool leader Shanta Chetri were among the speakers in the Kolkata rally.
 
 The GJM has always insisted Terrai and Dooars be part of Gorkhaland. The party leadership has included plains leaders Shankar Adhikari and Jiwan Gurung in the party’s central committee.
 
 GJM assistant general secretary Binay Tamang reacted sharply: “We can assure that the Trinamool is in for a shock in the Dhupguri polls. We have accepted the challenge and we are prepared to fight it out democratically and peacefully,” he told TOI.
 
 
