The message was loud and clear. Shouts of “Din bhi humara, raat bhi humari”, “Delhi aduguthundi, Mumbai aduguthundi, Jaipur aduguthundi, Bangalore aduguthundi, Hyderabad aduguthundi azaadi”, “Goondagardi nahi sahenge”, “We will go out, I will go out, you will go out, we all we go out,” reverberated on   on Saturday evening as over 200 city women marched to reclaim public spaces as part of the   campaign.
What started off as a Facebook thread protesting the Bengaluru molestation case on NYE, the campaign has snowballed into nation wide movement with similar gatherings organised in 21 cities across the country on January 21.
 “I am here to reclaim my city and rid it’s streets of all forms of sexual harassment and gender based discrimination and violence. Women must be free to chose what we want to wear and stay out as long as I want no matter what time of day or night it is,” said Shalini, who was leading the rally.
 The protesters included women from all age-groups besides an entourage of NCC cadets who gathered at   marched up to People’s Plaza holding placards and raising slogans. “I can hardly walk without guys calling me racist slurs poking fun of my identity. ‘Hey Chinki! Hey Nepali’, they jeer at us. Many times I retort back saying I am from Nagaland, not a chinki or a Nepali, but the booing doesn’t stop. It’s time we send out the message that such bullying will not be tolerated,” said Asen Aier, a student of  .
 Upon reaching Freedom Park, protesters signed a petition addressed to the Commissioner of Police, calling for the implementation of practical measures for women’s safety. Not just Hyderabadis, but women from other parts of the country like Varanasi native, Sakshi Baranwal also participated in the walk. “I found out about the campaign on social media and decided to contribute for the cause with my pictures,” said Sakshi who was clicking pictures of the protest walk with her DSLR.
 A slew of men too hit the streets in solidarity with the women. “I am here to support all the women in their fight. It’s not just their fight, they are not alone in this,” said Pavan Kumar.
 
