CHANDIGARH: There may not be many urban Indian women playing sports born out of Indian soil, but two young entrepreneurs from Mumbai -   and   - are investing their energies and entrepreneurial expertise in promoting home-grown sports   and  .
 
 Radha, daughter of YES bank founder and MD Rana Kapoor, needs little introduction. With business intellect part of her DNA, the alumni of HR College of Commerce and Economics has been creating wave, ever since the franchise-based professional sports leagues mushroomed.
  
 As the owner of Dabang Delhi Kabaddi Club in Pro-Kabaddi League and Dabang Mumbai Hockey Club in   (HIL), Radha's sporting endeavours have given the much needed fillip to the two sports.
  
 While kabaddi is trying to find a firm footing on the world stage, hockey has been constantly battling to break the shackles and reclaim the ground it has lost in world sports. And Radha believes that it can be best achieved by giving more opportunity to country's youth by playing the sport.
  
 "The youth of our country is playing all kinds of sports these days and I always wanted to engage in promoting our home-grown sports," Radha told TOI. "With Dabang Delhi we got an opportunity to promote India's ancient sport, while with Dabang Mumbai we invested in promoting our national sport.
  
 "India has some really talented players and we always wanted to aim to identify new heroes through our various initiatives and nurture the young talent," she added. 
  
 That's where the group's grassroot programmes come to the fore.
  
 "This year we also conducted the biggest grassroots development program 'Hookin2hockey' under the aegis of Hockey Australia which saw over 500 boys and girls alongside 60 coaches participating," Radha said.
  
 In the same vein, though on a different platform, is Techpreneur Nimisha Jagasia who is also championing the cause of hockey on the internet through her platform - DragflickWorld (www.dragflickworld.com) 
  
 Nimisha, started her career in the print publishing industry and then transitioned to online publishing after studying in Mumbai at the Jai Hind College before moving to the Middle East and South-East Asia where she spent a considerable time honing her expertise in the digital world.
  
 "Hockey just happened", Nimisha said. "I was at a stadium in Delhi last HIL season and while I witnessed so many innovations bought in by the broadcasters, there was something amiss - the crowd, atmosphere. It was hard to believe that such an ambitious project had such little audience. It was also hard to believe there were only a handful of people talking about the game on social media platforms. I felt like the game deserved more of a crowd - both at the stadium and online." 
  
 It was lack of audience that struck Nimisha. That's when she decided to make use of her expertise to bring people together and follow the sport online through her platform DragflickWorld. 
  
 According to Nimisha, in cricket-ruled India, other sports need more "care and attention".
  
 "Like any venture to become successful, a sport also needs constant care and attention. With hockey stadiums in India not full, it is hard to imagine that India were once world beaters. As an Indian hockey patriot, It was almost instantaneously that I decided this sport needs a dedicated online platform that promotes the game constantly," she added.
 
