JAIPUR: By March 2018, villages and hamlets across the state would be electrified, announced senior cabinet minister Rajendra Rathore on Monday.

 Rathore was replying to a questions raised by   MLA Phool Singh Meena who had demanded to know the status of work done under the   in Udaipur rural. Rathore, who was replying on behalf of state power minister  , assured Meena that the pending work under the scheme in Udaipur would be completed by March 2018.
 
 “Under this scheme, electrification of villages and hamlets in the 33 districts of the state were sanctioned in August 2015. Of the 34 projects that were sanctioned for 33 districts, letter of intent or work orders have been issued for 20,” he said, accepting that 3,781 hamlets across the state are not covered under the scheme.
 
 “The population in these hamlets is less than 100 and hence, the scheme has not been extended to these. However, the state government will soon prepare a special proposal for the electrification of these hamlets and send it to the centre. By March 2018, all villages and hamlets in the state will be electrified. The state government is dedicated to the cause,” assured the minister.
 
 Rathore also assured the house that by March 2018, the state government would provide 25,000 below poverty line (BPL) families with free power connections and 33,000 connections to above poverty line (APL) families.
 
 Replying to another question, which was related to pending wages under MGNREGA, Rathore said that he was not aware that the payments of 2015 were pending. The question was raised by BJP MLA  , who pointed out that the wages of MGNREGA labourers in panchayat villages of Dungarpur and Bichhiwara were pending for 2015.
 
 “I am not aware of it but it would be looked into. If the wages are pending even now, action would be taken against those found to be responsible for it,’’ he said.
 
 Replying to a question, industry minister   assured the House that the government will order a probe into the alleged irregularities in land acquisition for phase III of Sitapura industrial area in Jaipur.
 
