CHENNAI: Former chief minister   on Monday lashed out at DMK for doing precious little for workers. He said   president   cannot dream of becoming chief minister as people were with them. Panneerselvam heads the AIADMK-Puratchi Thalaivi Amma faction. 

 "DMK has been rejected by the people. Before the 2016 assembly elections, Stalin walked, ran, sipped tea in a tea shop and wore shirts of different colours. We know how to manage a tea shop (referring to the fact that he himself had run a tea stall before he joined politics), but he only tasted tea in a shop. He was up to several tricks to come to power, but Amma won the election and became chief minister," said Panneerselvam. 
 
 As the campaign for recently cancelled   bypoll picked up pace, both DMK and T T V Dhinakaran realised they had no chance of victory, said OPS. "So, Stalin sent missile after missile at me and Dhinakaran devised ways to bribe voters, paying Rs 4000 per vote," alleged the former chief minister. 
 
 "Whenever election is held for R K Nagar, former   E Madhusudhanan alone will be the party candidate and he will win hands down," asserted Panneerselvam. He also described former   T Murthy, who crossed over to the Sasikala faction, as "traitor". 
 
 "There are serious doubts in the minds of people about the death of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa. I warn the chief minister and his ministers, people are not with you and don't take them for a ride, lest you will be shown the door," said Panneerselvam.
 
 Earlier Madhusudhanan lashed out at chief minister and rival faction leader Edappadi K Palaniswami saying he was "insane". "Our Dharma Yudh will start on May 5 when OPS begins to meet cadres across the state. After this the chief minister will be ousted," said Madhusudhanan. 
 
 The former AIADMK minister accused school education minister K A Sengottaiyan of chasing power. "Sengottaiyan decided to follow Sasikala and her family to get the minister's post, which he got it only by supporting them," said Madhusudhanan. The entire OPS group was in full attendance and AIADMK cadres invaded a good stretch of Tiruvottiyur high road, making it difficult for vehicular movement. Entertainment programmes by cinema troupes kept cadres and public enthralled.
 
 
