CHENNAI: Gone are the days when running was done just for pleasure. Today, a majority of us run with a goal in mind — to shed excess flab or prepare for a running event, or even both. With Chennai playing host to numerous marathons right through the year, awareness with regards to preparations for them have undergone a paradigm shift in the last few years.

 A few years ago, one often saw participants turning up for a   in ill-fitting shorts or shirts. If that wasn’t enough, there were a few who would even arrive for the event without proper preparation. But, those days are a thing of the past. Participants today are not only fit and prepared for the long haul, but have become more conscious about their outfit and running gear.
 
 Rekha Sudarsan, who took to running about nine years ago, recalls her initial days in the sport. “It (running) started off as a recreational activity and soon became a part of my life. Back in 2008, we didn’t have the latest watch or a coach to train us. We used to run shorter distances and feel great about it,” Rekha says.
 
 With marathons mushrooming, the need to train in a scientific manner soon took shape. “Our approach towards running underwent a paradigm shift. From wearing the right attire and right shoes to emphasis on nutrition — everything was followed to the T,” she adds. Soon, runners not only graduated to running longer distances, they also looked for avenues which would help them get better at it. “We would attend workshops where expert runners share their experiences and look to imbibe the learning in our runs too. The more we read and interacted with fellow runners, the more aware we became,” Rekha says. Rekha and her team soon put together the   ( ), an event that has always attracted a healthy audience.
 
 There are some who look at the flip side of the whole phenomenon. They feel running today has become more goal-oriented and less recreational. “People are more inclined towards posting their photographs on social media than actually enjoying the race,” says Karthik, a regular runner.
 
 However, a sizeable number of participants do enter a race to raise funds in aid of charitable organizations or run for causes close to their heart.   is one among them. Kannan, who turned 42 last year, is running full marathons on 42 successive weekends to spread awareness on road safety. He has run in Bengaluru, Chennai and Erode among other places to spread his message. “The number 42 does ring a bell in every marathon runner’s mind. I have completed 32 weeks (of running marathons on weekends), and will be taking part in the Auroville Marathon on February 12,” he says. 
 
 Kannan is committed to his cause and the magnitude of the task notwithstanding, he is pursuing it relentlessly. “Combining my passion for running with an important social cause is something that is fun to do. In the past few months, I have been witness to many emergency situations and even provided support to victims”, he says.
 
 Running today is more than a way of life. For some it is a way to go down on the weighing scale, and for many — wearing a finisher’s medal is a high that remains unmatched. 
 
 
