AHMEDABAD: The probe into the seizure of 1500 kg of heroin worth over Rs 6,500 crore has now reached its peak with the Narcotics Control Bureau ( ) preparing to write to Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) for extradition of  , owner of the ship Prince-II that was used to smuggle heroin stashed in secret cavities. 

 Officials said they have also made the engineer who made secret cavities in the ship an accused in the case. Al Mehmood, an Iranian national, who moves between   and Dubai is another accused.
 
 "  and Syed Al Abdul, the two brothers of Syed Al Mehmood Moniri, are also into nefarious activities including the heroin smuggling case. We are investigation their role," said a senior Indian official.
 
 Meanwhile, after NCB wrote to Porbandar police to investigate the murder of two suspected ISI agents, Mohammed Mustufa and  , the Porbandar police have sought recorded statements of the accused, including Surjit Yadav, the captain of the ship. 
 
 The murder of two ISI agents is believed to have taken place on the ship near the   on July 25 just as the ship set sail from Gwadar port of Pakistan towards Egypt. And Surjit Yadav, the ship’s captain, had taken part in the murders in a greed to earn Rs 50 crore.
 
 Sources said Mohammed Mustafa, who was a drug addict, started a quarrel with the crew members after which he was pushed off the ship into the sea.
 
 "On the other hand Mohammed Khalid, who was carrying a long knife and had injured quite a few members of the crew, was tied with a rope and also thrown into the sea," a source in the police said.
 
 It may be recalled that the NCB has also submitted an application in the court mentioning that investigation of murders does not fall within the purview the agency’s powers, the probe of the two murders be handed over to some other agency.
 
 "However, as the probe will require multi-country co-ordination such as Iran, UAE and Pakistan, the investigation is likely to handed over to some national agency," said a senior police official.
 
 
 
 Sources said the accused in the case had claimed that as part of the initial planning, they were to move towards Alang scrapyard near Bhavnagar coast but they did not have the map. "The accused had told the police that they were waiting for instructions from Mumbai-based Vishal Yadav," a source said.
 
 
 
 Analysis of the GPS system recovered from the ship has revealed that the ship had changed its route near the Gulf of Oman and, instead of sailing to Sharm-el-Sheikh port of Egypt, the ship had started its journey towards India as part of the double cross planned to sell Rs 6500 crore heroin at Rs 150 crore in India.
 
