BHUBANESWAR:   might have developed cold feet on influential persons for their alleged involvements in Seashore Group  . But it was  , who was said to have tipped the CBI about the suspected complicity of several BJD politicians, bureaucrats and IPS officers in  , involving Rs 500 crore. Mohapatra died in a hospital in Mumbai on Sunday following prolonged illness.

 CBI summoned and interrogated Saroj Sahoo, perceived as a close aide of chief minister Naveen Patnaik on November 22, 2014. Just a day before, the CBI elicited the vital information about Sahoo from Mohapatra, who was once regarded as the most powerful politician after chief minister of the state until his expulsion from BJD in 2012. CBI quizzed Mohapatra on November 21, 2014. 
 
 After coming out of the CBI office, Mohapatra had told the media that he supplied vital information to the probe agency. Pyari then also took a jibe at Naveen and said the CBI should summon the CM as several of his party colleagues availed undue benefits from the Ponzi firm. 
 
 Denying his links with the scam, the former   member said Seashore Group chief Prashant Dash met him twice when he was in BJD and discussed about two of his projects (establishment of a maize processing unit in Nabarangpur and setting up of a news channel.
 
 Followers of Mohapatra, who formed Odisha Jan Morcha (a political party), said CBI tried to falsely implicate him in Seashore scam. “CBI suspected Mohapatra was a suspect and raided his house in November 2014. But the CBI found little evidence against him. But the CBI shielded some BJD politicians and bureaucrats, whose names were supplied to the probe agency by Mohapatra,” said a member of Odisha Jan Morcha. 
 
 “We feel the CBI failed to capitalise on Mohapatra’s information as he was the most influential leader in ruling BJD when Seashore Group bagged several projects from the government in public private partnership mode. Mohapatra very well knew who availed benefits from the company,” said Sanjay Mohanty, a duped investor of Seashore Group.
 
 
