AJMER: The   has started declining rapidly due to scorching heat, resulting in the   in the pond.   on the surface of the pond have started stinking causing a   who come here for a holy dip in this pond. In the last two days as many as 80 fish have died.

  showing concern on this situation have asked the administration to ban throwing of eatables in the pond that pollute the limited water source of this pond.
 
 This time death of fish in the holy Pushkar pond has been reported very early. “Last time such an incident occurred just before monsoon which was in the month of July,” said a source. He added that water level went as low as five feet and there are some places where water decreased to dead storage. “During last monsoon season the water level went up to nearly 16 feet but it quickly went down,” the source added.
 
 The problem of declining of water every year in this holy pond began when the district administration dug the pond to take out silt from it to increase the capacity of the pond but experts stated that this disturbed the interior earth management of the pond and now water goes out from internal channels. “One of the reasons of declining of water level in Pushkar pond is the high number of tube wells in the surrounding area. There are dozens of resorts and farm houses in surrounding Pushkar and therefore, the water level is declining fast,” added an expert.
 
 The water level in the holy pond also decreased in October 2016, just before the holy fair and international cattle fair. “That time Ajmer Development Authority managed to pour Bisalpur water which is the lifeline for Ajmer,” added an official. He said that the water of Bisalpur was not poured down in the pond but in the tanks constructed around the pond so that devotees coming to participate in the religious occasion can take a dip in it.
 
 But again the water started polluting and fish started dying in the holy pond. “The reason behind this is that devotees throw eatables in the pond for fish and this pollutes water,” said a priest. He added that they have demanded many times to ban throwing eatables in the pond but nothing concrete has come up so far.
 
 Meanwhile, the local administration is planning to release more Bisalpur water in the pond to save fish. “There were not only fish but snakes and different types of aqua life,” added a source. The community of priests is under pressure because monsoon is still far away and the pond is shrinking everyday due to extreme heat.
 
