NEW DELHI: Patient services at many Delhi hospitals were affected on Thursday as resident   skipped duty in a show of solidarity for their colleagues in Maharashtra who have been on strike for the past four days demanding  .

 Ram Manohar Lohia (RML), Lok Nayak and Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) hospitals said their emergency services ran smoothly, but some planned surgeries had to be cancelled or postponed due to manpower crisis.
 
 “In the absence of resident doctors, senior faculty has to attend to emergency cases and manage OPDs. So, we had to postpone elective surgeries,” said Dr J C Passey, medical director of Lok Nayak hospital. Even at RML, the doctors said, emergency services remained unaffected but the protest leave paralysed OPD and routine surgeries.
 
 The resident doctors of AIIMS continued their protest by wearing helmets at work for the second day. However, they did not skip duty citing inconvenience to poor patients who come from different parts of the country for treatment at the premier hospital.
 
 “Our aim is not to inconvenience patients but to seek better security at the workplace. If the government fails to deliver on that, be it in in Delhi or Maharashtra, we will be forced to strike work,” said an AIIMS doctor.
 
 Dr Pankaj Solanki, president of Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA), said they will work with black armbands on Friday. “We are awaiting the decision of Maharashtra government. Their action will decide our reaction. If required, we may go on indefinite mass leave after all RDAs reach a mutual decision by Saturday,” he said.
 
 Indian Medical Association (IMA), which has around 2.7 lakh members across India, has extended support to the strike, while Delhi Medical Association (DMA) has called for OPD bandh on Friday.
 
 Dr Rakesh Kumar Gupta, DMA president, said that indoor patients and emergency services will not be affected. “Assault on doctors is rising day-by-day in both government and private institutions. Patients and relatives are taking the law into their own hands, which is not acceptable,” said Dr Ashwani Goyal, DMA state secretary.
 
 The strike by the resident doctors in Maharashtra entered the fourth day on Friday as they demanded enhanced security in the wake of a string of attacks by patients’ relatives at government hospitals across the state. Nearly 2,000 of them got expulsion notice a day ago.
 
 Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has proposed the formation of an apex council with government nominees and doctors as members to look into issues of security of the medical fraternity in hospitals. He also made a fervent appeal to the striking resident doctors to get back to work and serve the public.
 
 Union health minister J P Nadda has asked states to take measures to improve security of doctors.
 
