Ahmedabad: Today there are more craters on Ahmedabad’s roads than on the moon. Why should the newly constructed Rs 64 crore flyover at Bopal be any exception? Inaugurated by CM Vijay Rupani just on July 6, a portion of the road on the incline of the flyover sank by a few inches this Friday evening.

 Quite literally, many of these holes, hollows, potholes we rattle across in our cars or swerve around on our motorbikes have appeared overnight on most stretches. If you miss one by mistake, getting a slipped disc on your spine is almost guaranteed.
 
 The situation gravely reflects unaccountable public works steeped in financial indiscipline and corrupt practices. 
 
 The chairman of AMC’s road department, Jatin Patel, claims that just 11km of roads in the city were damaged in the recent spate of rains. Heavy traffic during monsoons and digging-mad utility companies usually get blamed for bad roads, but the rot runs deeper.
 
 “In the last four years. contractors for many of the newly resurfaced roads have not submitted their final bills. This frees the zonal municipal city engineers of all responsibilities to own up to the poor work as they don’t have to issue contractors a completion certificate,” says an AMC official. “Another loophole is that since three and half years the deposit from contractors has been reduced from 20% to 5%. This happened in 2015.,” he added.
 
 The AMC official says that in this way, contractors collect 95% of the payment and forego the rest. 
 
 “We are analyzing what led to poor construction of roads,” said Patel. When asked why more plastic polymer roads were not constructed despite some roads made on pilot project of using polymers having survived three monsoons, Patel claimed, “It was because we did not have a special conveyer belt that uniformly mixed material with plastic shreds.”
 
 In fact, three years ago, former municipal commissioner Guruprasad Mohapatra had issued a circular that names of contractors, the roads they constructed as well as the history of road resurfacing be put in public domain. But the roads department ignored it. “I am aware of the circular. But we will see what we can do,” says standing committee chairman Praveen Patel.
 
 
