BENGALURU: Protests against Hindi signages at   stations have gathered steam with pro-Kannada organizations planning a meeting in the city on July 15 to discuss the issue. 

  Activists from Karnataka have reached out to chief ministers and social outfits of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Puducherry,  , Telangana, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Punjab and Odisha with a request to join hands against what they call imposition of Hindi in signages. 
 
  "Non-Hindi speaking states must come together to protect their cultural identities," said Chandrashekhar Patil, state convener of Karnataka Swabhimana Vedike and former chairman of Kannada Development Authority. "The socio-political situation in the country calls for a movement. It's significant that the voice is emanating from Karnataka this time," he said. 
 
  Pro-Kannada outfits are organizing a roundtable on July 15 in which political and apolitical organizations from across the country are expected to take part. Patil said writers, artistes and the intelligentsia would be there. Political leaders, including state JD(S) president H D Kumaraswamy and   working president Dinesh Gundu Rao, are expected to attend. The outfits are planning a rally at the National College Grounds in August. "I'm all for diversity and against imposition of any one language. I hope Hindi-speaking states, too, support this because the real issue is ... how the federal structure must deal with India's diversity," said noted Kannada writer Vivek Shanbhag. 
 
  The Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (Narayana Gowda faction) - which often locks horns with the   on the border issue and with Tamil Nadu political parties on sharing of Cauvery river water - is working with them for the common cause. Vedike president T A Narayana Gowda has written to Uddhav Thackeray of Shiv Sena, Raj Thackeray of Maharashtra Navnirman Sena, DMK leader M K Stalin and AIADMK leader TTV Dhinakaran, seeking their support. 
 
  "We've taken note of the developments in Karnataka. While we support the cause, our leader (Stalin) will decide who will attend the roundtable," said R S Bharathi, senior DMK leader and Rajya Sabha member. "Raj Thackeray has authorized me to attend the meeting on behalf of MNS," Sandeep Deshpande, general secretary of MNS, told TOI from Mumbai. 
 
  In Bengaluru, online campaign #Namma Metro Hindi-Beda, launched in June, resulted in the masking of Hindi signages at Kempegowda and Chickpete Metro stations on July 1. Mumbai witnessed a similar protest with pro-Marathi activists starting   campaign. 
 
