CHENNAI: The NTPC Tamilnadu Energy Company Limited (NTECL), a   of NTPC and TNEB at Vallur, has withdrawn the regulation notice issued to Tangedco by which it had earlier stopped supply of power to the state discom for nonpayment of dues to the tune of 1,156 crore. 

 The plant was restarted following a strongly worded letter from TNEB chairman M Saikumar to NTECL CEO that said NTPC cannot unilaterally decide on suspension of   and supply as TNEB has 50% stake in the company. Copies of the letter were sent to Union power secretary and NTPC chairman also.
 
 Though the power generation in the   have resumed, the stalemate with   as it has refused to purchase power citing that the cost was much higher than those levied by other   Vallur units are now supplying power to other southern states.
 
 A chief engineer of Tangedco sent a notice to NTECL CEO soon after they received the regulation notice. "After sending the notice to CEO we also paid our regular monthly dues to NTECL to the extent of 215 crore. The remaining dues will be paid only after other issues between two companies are solved," a senior official told TOI. 
 
 In the letter to the CEO, Saikumar said Tangedco is a 50% equity holder in the joint venture company and thus a co-owner of the NTECL units. A co-owner being sent a regulation notice without the approval of the joint-venture plant's board is unheard of, said the letter. Tangedco is eligible to get 75% of the 1,500 MW combined capacity from the three units.
 
 "The decision to shut down the plant without referring the matter to NTECL board has caused immeasurable revenue loss to the company. The decision can only be termed hasty, ill-advised and wrong," said the letter, adding that it was not binding on Tangedco.
 
 The letter also said Tangedco would not pay fixed capacity charges to the JV for the period power was suspended. As per the agreement, fixed charges have to be paid by Tangedco even if it does not draw power from it.
 
  Tangedco chairman also accused the   of following wrong practices, because of which cost of power generation was high. "Easily the cost of power generation per unit can be brought down if better practices are followed in purchase of input material. Currently, the power cost is Rs 5.15 per unit," said the chairman.
 
