NAGPUR: Even as Sanjeev Kumar, managing director of Maharashtra State Electricity Development Corporation Limited ( ), takes various steps to collect pending dues from consumers, the arrears of residential, commercial and small industrial consumers are shooting up.

 Between March and May 2017, the arrears owed by these categories increased from Rs 780 crore to Rs 1,380 crore, a hike of 77%.
 
 The increase in   — Nagpur and   districts — is shocking. The figure increased from Rs 5.38 croreto Rs 28.15 crore — a rise of over 500%. In Vidarbha, the arrears increased from Rs 45.47 crore to Rs 158.09 crore — a rise over three times.
 
 The number of defaulters during the two months in the state also witnessed a shocking rise. In the end of March, 3.62 lakh consumers owed dues to the discom. Two months later, the figure increased to 6.88 lakh. In Nagpur zone, the number of defaulters increased from 86,454 to 2.38 lakh. The corresponding figures for Vidarbha are 6.59 lakh to 13.97 lakh.
 
 Among the sixteen zones of MSEDCL, there is not a single one which has not witnessed an increase in the number of defaulters and arrears amount in the two-month period.
 
 If all the commercial and industrial consumers — big as well as small — are considered, the number of defaulters has increased sharply. The figure was 3.01 lakh in the end of March, which rose to 6.78 lakh in May end. The arrears amount was Rs 586 crore and Rs 789 crore — an increase of 35%. The arrears of public water works and street lights also increased during this period, though not sharply.
 
 Consumer activist Anil Wadpalliwar slammed MSEDCL officials for increase in arrears. “It is a massive failure on part of the officials. Energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule should fix the responsibility for failure to crack down on defaulters. MSEDCL has also been unable to check power theft. All this leads to an increase in power tariff and it is the honest consumers who pay the price,” he said.
 
 MSEDCL spokesperson PS Patil refused to explain the increase in arrears despite several attempts.
 
 Recently, a three-member committee had submitted a report to MSEB Holding Company exposing how the discom inflated bills of farmers to pass off theft as agricultural power consumption. It is now up to the energy minister to take action against the erring officials and put the company back on track.
 
 
