PUNE: Bharatiya Janata Party ( ) on Friday released its election manifesto with a claim to make the city smart.

 It promised Puneites 24X7 water supply, development of amenity spaces, free PMPML services on bus rapid transit system (BRTS) routes in evening and morning, houses for slum residents and a comprehensive mobility plan for the city’s transport problems.
 
 The party, which is looking forward to ending Nationalist Congress Party’s regime in the city, has also vowed to conduct an audit of all projects that were taken up in the city over the last 15 years.
 
 “We will go ahead with quality control. All the projects taken up in last 15 years will be under scrutiny. We will check utilization of funds and status of projects, how funds have been procured and utilized. We will also ensure our agenda for the city is implemented well in time and, for that, we have decided to set up a monitoring committee,” BJP’s party unit chief Yogesh Gogawale said on Friday. The manifesto was released in the presence of senior leader  , MP Anil Shirole and MP Sanjay Kakade.
 
 Bapat said the manifesto is a commitment document and it will be implemented with top-most priority. The party will also come out with separate agendas for each panel over the next few days, he said.
 
 Bapat said that all hurdles in execution of the Metro project would be tackled on priority. The project will be implemented within the stipulated period. Additional route between Hinjewadi and Shivajinagar will be taken up soon. The locations of metro stations have already been identified. 
 
 A meeting of experts and authorities concerned will be called to decide on the alignment of a metro depot at   depot where a Shivshrusti project has been proposed, Bapat said.
 
 The agenda has promised implementation of the recently-sanctioned development plan, strengthening of PMPML and BRTS, equitable distribution of water and restrict transportation losses, starting garbage processing units and plans to improve tourism.
 
 Bapat said that the party received over 20,000 suggestions on the draft manifesto published earlier, and added that they were also considered in the final draft. 
 
 
