KOLKATA: The three-year-old  , who had needles pierced into her body, died at the   early on Friday morning. Admitted to the paediatric ICU of the hospital last Saturday, the girl succumbed to infection from the needles, according to the medical board formed for her treatment. 

 The girl had seven needles inserted into her body, including her private parts, which resulted in severe infection. Her arms were also fractured. The girl was allegedly abused by her mother's employer in a Purulia village. The baby's plight moved the SSKM doctors, who had been extremely sympathetic towards her throughout the treatment. 
 
 Earlier, superintendent   took a personal interest in her treatment and a medical board was formed. In fact, the hospital administration had even started looking for a home for the girl, where she could be kept after being discharged. Her death has left doctors and medical staff shattered. 
 
 On July 16, doctors at SSKM Hospital had extracted the needles from her body after a four-hour-long surgery. 
 
 The girl was brought to SSKM on July 15. Apart from the physical injuries the girl was in severe trauma due to sexual abuse. 
 
 SSKM doctors, too, were left shocked by the horrifying abuse. "We initially knew about two needles in her lung but during the surgery, we found another there. We could remove all the seven needles. Thankfully the needles did not rupture or cause any major internal injury. It is mysterious how the perpetrator forced the needles that went so deep inside the body," said Dr Sukanta Roy, gastroenterology surgeon, who was part of the surgery team. 
 
 According to initial findings, the accused  , in whose house the girl's mother worked as a domestic help, had subjected the girl to physical and sexual abuse. The victim's mother used to take her regularly to  's house during work. Thakur, a former home guard, has been booked under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO). Cops suspect the accused might have been practising black magic. The accused is still at large. 
 
 
