NEW DELHI: Within hours of losing the Rajouri Garden seat, AAP on Thursday put up over 100 big hoardings across the city to counter BJP, whose candidate Manjinder Singh Sirsa defeated AAP candidate Harjit Singh in the Rajouri Garden by-elections.

 “If BJP wins civic polls, it will increase charges of water and electricity. To stop it, vote for Kejriwal” the hoardings put up at Geeta Colony, Khajuri Chowk, Bhajanpura, Akshardham, Mayur Vihar Extension and several other points read.
 
 The content of the hoardings appear controversial because AAP has claimed in the hoardings that “if BJP wins municipal elections, it will increase the charges of water and electricity” which AAP government is providing at subsidised rates. AAP’s campaign is largely based on cheap electricity and free water. Kejriwal claims that Delhi’s electricity is the cheapest in the country and highlights how AAP delivered on its promise to cut electricity rate by half and waive charges on water (up to 20,000 liter per month) in every public meeting.
 
 On March 31, Kejriwal told people at a public meeting in Burari, “A BJP leader informed me that BJP will increase the rate of water and electricity if it wins civic elections. BJP wants to benefit the power companies. Do not vote for BJP, otherwise you will stop getting free water and cheap electricity.”
 
 Currently, water and electricity are subjects under Delhi government. But before 1988, both the subjects were under the jurisdiction of municipal corporations. “Kejriwal came to know about this conspiracy and we are making Delhiites aware of it,” AAP Delhi convener   said.
 
 “We will not let this happen,” he said. This claim of AAP was used during Rajouri Garden assembly by-elections with Kejriwal using the matter in his speech at a public meeting in Rajouri Garden.
 
 BJP has termed AAP’s hoardings misleading and full of lies. “AAP is known to fool people before elections and they are doing it again. AAP’s claims about increasing the charges of water and electricity are false,” said   spokesperson Harish Khurana.
 
 Against this “misleading campaign”, Khurana said, the party will explore the possibility of legal action against AAP.
 
 
