Election fever may have left the Delhi campus a long time back, but the students of   had already started working for another voting campaign during the last one week. This voting campaign had nothing to do with student politics, but was rather about making appeals to the students of the college to vote for its alumnus 
  
 evicted from the ' ' house. 
 , who was last seen in ' ', graduated from   College in 2012 in B.Com(Hons). Since 
  had made it so far in the show, the college authorities thought that they could at least make attempts to ask people to vote for its alumnus. But after his eviction from the show, this seems like a vain effort for the students who worked hard for him. 

  
  Rishabh Deo and Yogesh Choudhary putting posters to support Rohan (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
 
 The front gate of the college has a big signature board to support 
  which was part of the signature campaign. Though most of the students have written messages like, 'We love you, 
 ', 'You rock, 
 ' along with their signatures, there were some who had shown their support for the contestant from Noida, Manveer Gurjar as well. 
 
 At the time of elections, contesting parties visit classrooms, meet students and ask them to vote for them. Similarly, the student union members of the college had been asking students to vote for the 'Bigg Boss' contestant in classrooms, near the ground area, and also put posters inside the campus so that people could vote for him. "We did not know that he is from our college, isse pehle kabhi kisi ne bataya nahi. Na hi 
  ne kabhi TV pe bola ki woh Hans Raj ka hai," said  , second year student of Botany(Hons). 
 
  
  A signature campaign that was put at the college gate (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
 
 While the students did their bit, the acting principal of the college, Rama Sharma, also supported 
  and was seen signing the signature board outside the college. "I do not follow 'Bigg Boss' regularly. But when we got to know that 
  is also part of the show, we thought that we could at least support him," she said. Yogesh Choudhary, general secretary of the students' union, also from B.Com(Hons), said, "We hope that he will now visit the college."
 
  
  Rama Sharma, acting principal of the college while signing in support of Rohan (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
 
 
