MYSURU: The   witnessed 158 couples entering into wedlock in a   organized at Suttur here  . 

 As many as 96 couples belong to scheduled caste, 40 from the backward community, 13 from Veerashaiva and 10 from schedule tribes tied the knot. Apart from Mysuru, Mandya, Chamarajanagar, Bangalore, 5 couple were from  , one from Kerala, 3 were physically challenged, seven inter-caste couple and a couple both widow and widower got married at the mass marriage ceremony. 
 
 The ceremony was held in front of the heads of various mutts, relatives and family members. M Krishnappa, housing sinister, Union minister Ananthkumar, former Union minister Shamanur Shivashankarappa and various Swamijis were present to bless the couple. 
 
 The bridegrooms dressed in white, wearing the Mysore peta entered with their partners. It was a visual treat for many who attended the Suttur Jathra. Majority of them who tied the knot at the ceremony belong to the economically backward category. The brides were presented with a saree, a blouse and a toe ring and the grooms were given a dhoti, a shirt and a shawl. The couples were issued marriage certificates from the sub-registrar office from Nanjangud taluk.
 
 Former minister and senior Congress leader Shamanur Shivashankarappa inaugurated the event. Shamanur Shivashankarappa’s son Ganesh and daughter-in-law Rekha Ganesh presented mangalasutra to all 158 couples. “Several families reel under debt after a marriage; so mass marriage and a simple ceremony is a solution for such problems. There are people who spend hundreds of crores on weddings. Suttur Swamiji is conducting the mass marriage for these couples. He is doing a great work. More families should come forward and celebrate marriage ceremony in a simple way,” added Shankarappa. Heads of several mutts, elected representatives stressed on the need of a simple marriage and asked the couple to lead their life in harmony, love and equality. 
 
 N Shankar from Arakalavadi of Chamarajanagar Taluk and K Bhavani from Thalavadi (Tamil Nadu), who were in love for the past ten years tied the knot on this occasion. “After getting permission from both our families, we decided to get married in a mass marriage. It is really a dream come true for me. I am not only saving money but also getting married in front of all our elders,” added Shankar who works in a salon.
 
