INDORE:   Dr Anil Kakodkar on Monday said in order for India to be counted among the world’s developed nations, knowledge-based   should be made available to rural as well as urban students.

 He said that at present, development flows from urban to rural areas. But for  , which accounts for the majority of the country, decentralisation of development as well as educational activities should be an approach.
 
 He also talked about the relevance between knowledge provided in universities and their actual implementation in one’s life.
 
 “Whatever is taught in a university should have relevance to the development that is taking place in the world. There is no point teaching students something which they will never use in life. It should be something which they are seeing or are likely to see in the next two, three or five years,” he added.
 
 Dr Kakodkar was in the city to address a public gathering at Ravindra Natya Grah on Monday which was organised by Shri Vaishnav Vidyapeeth Vishwavidyalaya.
 
 He stressed that educational activities or advancements in technology must not only be limited to younger generations but older ones must also be made aware of the constant technological advancements.
 
 “We need to create knowledge centres in rural areas where people there can participate. It is only then that intended improvements can be achieved. We do not have much time and so we must leap frog and acquire consistent knowledge.”
 
 Dr Kakodkar added that the country at present accounts for a sixth of the world’s population. In order to have a comparable quality of life with some of the best countries in the world, the per capita GDP should also be 1/6th of the world’s per capita GDP.
 
 Redefining sustainable development, Dr Kakodkar said, “A sustainable development plan cannot be termed such if government funding is stopped.”
 
 He added that capacity building in rural areas must be the prime focus to achieve desired results.
 
 Coining the term ‘cillage’ (a combination of city and village), Dr Kakodkar said this form of integrated education, research and development in a rural area would be the key to bridge the gap between cities and villages by leveraging knowledge and technology.
 
