By choosing the historic   as the venue for the   fete in the newly carved out district of Jagitial, the Telangana government has made one thing clear — the architectural heritage of Telangana will no longer be ignored. Situated 50 km away from Karimnagar, the star-shaped   is an architectural marvel that embodies the history and culture of Telangana, much of which is in a state of ruin owing to centuries of neglect.
Nawab Ibrahim, a governor in the Mughal rule, commisioned the fort which was conceptualised by european engineers Jack and Tal — the name Jagitial is an 
 amalgamation of names of the architects. However, the structure stood neglected for years and was under threat of being encroached too. But thanks to the Republic Day celebrations this year, the fort got a much needed face-lift besides getting its pride of place. And it’s got the heritage buffs in the city all chuffed. While agreeing that holding events like these at heritage sites are baby steps towards conservation and upkeep of our monuments, experts say that infrastructure around the monuments of Telangana needs to be improved to make them more accessible to the public. 
 
 
 
 
 
 It was my idea to suggest Jagitial Fort for the Republic Day celebrations. This is something that’s been on our minds for a long time. Back when we were agitating for a separate state, we had identified as many as 354 forts across the state and appealed to the then government to do something to restore them and preserve them. But no one showed interest. In the 10-15 years that followed, many of those forts deteriorated further. When the CM hoisted the flag at   on Independence Day, it struck me that all the forts we have across the state could become venues for such events. This qila was chosen because it has a peculiar shape — it’s a star-shaped fort! Much of it is still in a good condition, there are some 50 cannons which are also pretty well-maintained. But most of all, it’s so spacious inside, enough to fit a small cricket stadium. Right now, the priority for the government is to focus on more basic necessities of the people. But with initiatives like these, the hope is that we can draw some attention to these historic gems and they get the importance they deserve. We have identified a few more forts in Medak, Khammam etc., and hope to have similar activities there as well. 
 
 
 I strongly believe that best way to preserve monuments and heritage is through the concept of “adaptive reuse” — this means reusing an old site or building for a purpose other than for which it was built or designed for. Hyderabad and Telangana will do well if we use this concept and facilitate people to use the monuments and the spaces around them for a contemporary purpose. That’s when events like the Republic Day parade in Jagitial fort and even the Independence Day celebrations in Golconda Fort or for that matter, music concerts at Charminar like the recent performance of Sabri brothers go a long way. So what’s stopping us from doing this more often? It’s only a mental block, a misconception that monuments will be ‘spoilt’ by people if they are opened up for public events. 
 —– Jayesh Ranjan, IT, Electronics & Communication Department, Government of Telangana
 
 
 
 
 I stage my plays at monuments in our city because many of these stories are set in these historic places. For instance, I have used the   to stage Taramati — The Legend of an Artist,   for His Exalted Highness and staged Quli — Dilon ka Shahzaada at Golconda Fort. But so often, we have had people coming till the Gandipet road and then calling a volunteer to ask for directions to Taramati Baradari; or they reach Charminar and call to ask where Chowmahalla Palace is. These structures have been around for centuries and yet, we often don’t even know where they are, because we don’t have a reason to go there or visit often enough. So as much as we should celebrate these initiatives from the government to open up these structures on special days like Independence Day and Republic Day, there should also be systems in place to work towards this all around the year. Take for instance heritage spaces in Venice or Istanbul — they are actually even more congested than the gallis of our Old City. But what makes all the difference is projects like pedestrianisation to create the infrastructure for these sorts of events and for the upkeep of the monuments. 
 —  , theatre artiste
 
 
 When Golconda Fort was picked as a venue for the Independence Day celebrations, since it was an   (ASI) protected monument, all the required precautions were taken to open it up for the public. Coming to the case of using Jagitial Fort for the Republic Day parade, it is great that this will throw light on a lesser known monument and it also gives a great sense of pride for the people of Karimnagar that something in their neighbourhood has been chosen for the celebration. But there is a very important aspect we must not forget — choosing these historical monuments for such festivities means that the place will see massive footfalls. The safety and security of the structure must be paramount, for instance bulldozers should not be used or they shouldn’t start digging up places. If these things are kept in mind, then these sort of celebrations are sure to create that contemporary connect and even foster a sense of affection in the people for these places.
 —  , co-convener, INTACH
 
 
 
