There is a storm brewing in the minds of the so-called  . The spark was the death of a 19-year-old beauty parlour employee Vinayakan. The youngster from Engadiyur, Thrissur, hanged himself possibly due to custodial torture by cops who picked him up on suspicion for being a member of a gang involved in chain-snatching incidents. What made him a suspect in the first place was reportedly his unconventional looks – his striking hairdo and ear studs.
Many freakans could very well relate to this look of suspicion and disdain in the eyes of not just cops but others in the society too.   has abated the fury among the youth to an extent, with him asking cops to refrain from moral policing and saying, “Growing hair is an individual’s freedom. It’s not the police’s duty to order those with different hairstyles to cut them short.”
 Behara’s comments came shortly after the alternative folk band   organised a gathering named   at Thrissur, as a clarion call to people to accept those not sticking to conventions in looks or thoughts. We listen in as they tell us about their concerns and the society’s stifling attitude towards them:
 
 
 
 
 
 Oorali singer   says that he believes having long, curly hair and beard is a reflection of the youngsters of a civilised society. “Our teenage years are when we most engage our mind and body in creative pursuits. It’s when we dream about our future and life. We should support their pursuits rather than squashing them, literally,” he says.
 Choosing what to wear – be it vibrant Patiala pants with accessories or something simple – is part of the creative process that makes people confident in who they are, he says, adding that youngsters have the right to decide what they want to do with their lives.
 “We live in a secular, democratic nation where everyone has the freedom to live and wear what they want. Moral policing curbs all that and there should be a law against those crushing the backbone of the younger generations, who are dreaming of a world beyond norms,” he says.
 The word freakan, a Malayalam derivative of freaks, according to Martin, is a term encompassing people who are unique in their thoughts and free to the core. “It’s not an offensive word at all. It’s an umbrella term for those who love and have the potential to create new roads in the society,” he says.
 
 
 
 
 
 Looks should not be the criterion to define a person, says professional photographer Ashok Fabiano, who was booked by Kumali police in 2012 as he “looked suspicious with long locks and beard”.
 “I was working for the government’s Grand Kerala Shopping festival at the time cops picked me up. The first question they angrily asked me was, ‘Which terrorist group do you belong to?’ How could one conclude someone is a criminal just by looking at the length of his hair or his unusual attire?” he asks.
 What to wear is a personal choice and it’s unfair to judge people on the basis of that, he says, pointing out that many who are currently accused for crimes against women today are clean shaven, well-dressed men with neatly cropped hair.
 Ashok’s plea to the society is to take time to understand what people are rather then jump to conclusions. “That’s what is required, instead of resorting to moral policing and booking people who have Afro hairstyles and unusual dressing sense, as drug peddlers,” he says.
 Another self-confessed freakan, Amal Madhavan, who rocks some coloured curls, says the quick judgments also expose the hypocrisy of the society. “People praise the styles of celebs and hail them as trendsetters – be it the long-haired footballer Sandesh Jhingan or Srilankan cricketer Lasith Malinga, who has golden curls. But if we dress up and style our hair like them, then we are tagged drug addicts. In that case, Lord Shiva, Jesus, Buddha and ancient sadhus were the first freakans as they are all depicted with long locks and hair buns,” says Amal, who works in a men’s saloon.
 
 
 
 
 
 For actor and model Aryan Gopan, who flaunts his signature curls, says that the looks are very much part of his job. “I am a model and I have this hairstyle as my profession demands it. During my college, students would come to me and ask ‘sadhanam kayyil undo?’ (Do you have stuff with you?) mistaking me for a ganja peddler. It could be because there were miscreants, but that doesn’t mean everyone must be branded the same way,” he says.
 Others like artist and student Renjith Murali say that growing hair and beard is a natural process. “I wanted to grow my hair as I was fascinated by actor Babu Antony from my childhood. Being an artist, it gives me a unique identity and also the hair has helped me get some film projects,” he says.
 
 
 
 
 Recently, writer Sara Joseph had come in support of the group, with her post on social media. “Freakanmar and freakathikal have always existed among us and they are more than a fashion statement. They reflect a riot against the existing policies through their dressing. The namboothiri men who cut their kuduma (hair bun) and namboothiri women, who wore a blouse, were also part of this revolution,” she wrote.
 
