LUCKNOW: If UP has not recorded an impressive growth in the agriculture sector, former chief minister   and his government should be held responsible, said Union agriculture minister  . “The previous SP government never utilised the Centre’s pro-farmer schemes,” the minister told   in an exclusive interview.

 Speaking to TOI after meeting with CM Yogi Adityanath and reviewing the progress and implementation of the Centre’s agriculture schemes, Singh said: “It was the first such and biggest exercise in UP and I am glad that the CM with his six ministers and all top officials of various department were present and showed keen interest in ensuring a good agriculture growth in the state.”
 
 “A number of schemes from the national food mission, national horticulture mission, cow breeding programmes and dairy development and food procession industry related projects were neglected by the previous government and the then CM Akhilesh Yadav,” he said, adding “Can you believe, 80% cows of the country give just 20% milk and no breeding programmes were started in UP.”
 
 The minister said that in the previous government he wrote dozens of letters for the allotment of land to set up the krishi vigyan kendras (KVKs), but it did not allot any land. “Now, in just four hours today, the Yogi government allotted land for 28 new KVKs in 28 districts and it is first time in any part of the country that 28 KVKs would be opened in just one month. This shows the determination of the BJP government in the state for providing relief to farmers,” the minister said.
 
 UP is the most populous state of the country, with highest number of farmers and volume of agriculture land, so there is need for special attention and focus in the state. If UP progresses fast, there is no reason why the country can’t make a leap in the agriculture field, the minister told TOI.
 
 Singh denied reports of farmers being taxed, saying no one should dream of this. But he said that it had to be looked into that how in some cases black money was being turned into white by showing as agriculture income. He refused to give a direct answer when asked about rising number of farmers’ suicide, asking “why only farmers? Every suicide should be a cause of concern and the Modi government is taking all possible steps to contain this.”
 
 On the contract farming , the minister said that an advisory has been issued to the state to formulate policies on the contract farming which would benefit the land owner and the tiller also. The minister said that earlier farmers were lathi-charged while queuing up to purchase urea. Now, with new policies of the government under PM Modi, the urea crisis has evaporated.
 
