GURUGRAM: Much before Gurgaon became Gurugram, the first Gurugrammers arrived here, a clean, green place then, a short drive away from  . Some came from Delhi, some from far-off states. This was a growing tribe of professionals, moving to this Delhi suburb that was fast becoming a corporate hub and a melting pot of identities and culture. It would take a while before a new identity would get forged, a Gurugrammer identity that we see today. But what was it like in those early days? And who were the first Gurugrammers? In the third part of our new weekly series, TOI turns the spotlight on the early settlers

  and Rachana Yadav fled the steep rents of Delhi for a relatively comfortable life, in a then-nondescript town set amid mustard fields and jungle. Back then, there was no cable TV, but weekend parties, and booze in the time of prohibition, kept boredom at bay. Sohna Road was empty and beautiful, and the   road was an adventure. Khanna and Yadav, who quit advertising to embrace their passions (photography and dance), came to Gurgaon in 1996, and found a place they could call home in 2005 (in DLF Phase-III). But both yearn for the peace and quiet – and verdant vistas as far as the eye could see – of those early days.
 
 
 
 
 Dinesh: It was our own place, the house was the way we wanted it to be. All around, it was open and it was clean. We moved because we couldn’t afford to buy our own place in Delhi. 
 
 We came to a suburb of Delhi, which was close enough that I could commute to my studio, in Panchsheel, every day. When we came, there were mustard fields around us. It was beautiful and it was charming. On Golf Course Road, where DLF Phase-I ended, it was all fields. 
 
 Rachana: It was quiet and green. And unpolluted. There was hardly any traffic. Also, there were very few people, but there were enough people of our kind. And over a period of time, our friends moved here.
 
 Dinesh: And we made friends here.
 
 Rachana: From our circle of friends, and from our family, we were the first to move here. But we had a good social life. Our friends would come over, or we’d go to Delhi. For our friends who came on weekends, it was like a trip out of town. They would arrive crammed in cars and stay overnight. Then slowly, these visits reduced, because they felt we were too far away!
 
 A lonely (but exciting) life
 
 Getting daily provisions was a challenge – there were no markets, no malls. In our block, there were maybe one or two shops. There was just a Crossroads supermarket near Bristol Hotel. So we’d buy our vegetables and groceries in   and Hauz Khas, and meat from Hauz Khas.
 
 Dinesh: Also, there was prohibition for two to three years, a little after we came. We would hear rumours of raids, so we had to be careful bringing and storing stuff! I remember once, on my birthday, we had invited 25-30 people to the house. Outside it was raining, but we were all having a good time. Some of us were dancing. Then the doorbell rang. It was 1am, and we thought it was the cops, and panicked. We quickly hid all the booze, only to find the visitor was a late entrant to the party!
 
 Limited entertainment 
 
 Dinesh: Coming here, our cultural life took a huge dip. It only came back when Rachana got into dance. Even now, when it comes to culture, Gurgaon is a desert — it’s fine for eating and drinking out, and watching movies, but not for culture. There are no art galleries, no libraries, no theatres. Only ‘Kingdom of Dreams’.
 
 And DLF Phase-III, over time, got left behind. It’s a bungalow colony with no market and no social club – the club that we have here is an apology of a club.
 
 A love affair turned sour 
 
 Rachana: The sense we got of a country life is no longer there – I’m ready to move to Delhi, I’m not attached to Gurgaon one bit.
 
 Dinesh The roads have remained the same, but the quantum of traffic has grown 50 times. Only in   have things stayed much as they were, like in sectors 14 and 15. 
 
 When there was nothing here, there was still charm. But that’s all gone now.
 
