CHENNAI: For top stars like   and  ,   was an ideal preparatory ground before they left for the Australian Open. The Chennai humidity - quite similar to that of Melbourne in January - was one of the main reasons why the tournament saw such a quality field year after year.

 Mahesh Bhupathi, a five-time Chennai Open doubles champion, feels that a much cooler Pune won't be the same weather-wise for the players who used to treat the ATP 250 event as a preparatory ground for Australia.
 
 "Chennai was the perfect practice tournament before the first Grand Slam. Chennai's climate is very similar to that of Australia and after a year-end break, it was the perfect opportunity for players to get used to the weather. Most top stars who Chennai Open had been Europeans and Chennai was the ideal stopover for them en route to Australia," Bhupathi told TOI on Thursday.
 
 The doubles legend, though, is happy that the tournament is at least staying in India. "This tournament is definitely special for all Indian tennis players. It has always been a privilege to play in front of home crowd in an ATP tournament and the fact that I won it for five times makes it more special. I am happy that the tournament has stayed in the country amidst talks of it moving out."
 
 Former Davis Cup captain  , too feels, Pune will not have the advantage that Chennai had. "We have played Davis Cup in Pune earlier this year and I can say that the stadium is beautiful and I am sure it will be a great tournament. But Pune will not have the advantage that Chennai had because of its climate. Pune is quite cold in the beginning of January. Also the tennis stadium in Pune is a few kilometers away from the city which means the players will spend more time travelling," he added.
 
 For Somdev Devvarman, Chennai Open moving out is like taking away a part of his childhood. "Chennai Open will always have a special place in my heart. I have grown up seeing the tournament and then I was lucky enough to even play the tournament. I also played my first ATP final here beating (Carlos) Moya and (Ivo) Karlovic. I feel a huge emotional connect with the tournament," he said.
 
 But according to Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan the tournament will not lose its sheen. "Yes it is sad that it has moved out but it is still an ATP 250 tournament and I am excited to play in Pune," said Jeevan who lifted the doubles trophy with   in the last edition of Chennai Open.
 
