RAMPUR: Asked by a TV journalist recently if his somewhat affected inflection was influenced by actor  , the eight-term MLA from Rampur,  , replied in his inimitable undertone, "Woh toh apna naam bhi nahi bachaa sakey... Maine toh apni pehchaan bachaayi hai."

 The self-appointed custodian of Muslims, Azam, 68, could not possibly have taken the light-hearted catechism with humour. For the noveau nawab of Rampur, the question was yet another opportunity to din in that he has no parallel among Muslim satraps in the country.
 
 Dilip Kumar, Azam suggested, had to change his Muslim name, Yusuf Khan, to be recognised as superstar. For the silver-tongued Samajwadi 'subedar' of Rohilkhand, his Muslim name isn't something he would ever trade with, not even for superstardom.
 
 But, taking the Bollywood analogy further: ask just about anybody today in Rampur what he thinks of Azam, and the conclusion is inescapable: if there's an actor that the suave sounding pol resembles more than the Thespian, it's late Rajesh Khanna.
 
 Like Khanna at his peak, Azam did not take a false step during his numerous bravura performances. Today, like Khanna downhill, the growing legion of his detractors say he cannot get anything right. Ironically, his precipitous fall began soon after 2012, when he won for the eighth time, and when, in his consistent view, he did the most work for Rampur's development and beautification.
 
 At his 'taqrir' (talk) at Shahbad Gate late last week, Azam couldn't speak for the first 10 minutes as fireworks hyperbolized his welcome -- to the point he had to hiss at his supporters to cut the pyrotechnics short. It took a while before his command was honoured.
 
 Maulana Azhar Ali Khan, who was once a close Azam aide, said, "Azam ordered the municipality to demolish my madrassa on Jail Road in 2013 (during Ramadan) because I dissociated myself with him. When I protested, I was booked under various offences and fake arms case and sent to jail."
 
 Maulana Azhar said that after he was released, he and his family members joined the  .
 
 "When I joined the BJP, my family members were also booked under false cases and sent to jail. Now, the entire   and Afridi Pathans of Madrassa Kona and Nalapaar areas have decided to vote against Azam," Maulana Azhar said.
 
 Retired IRS officer Zubair Masood Khan, 68, said, "We've appealed to Muslim voters not to vote for SP and Azam because Azam is not entitled to be called a Muslim. This was proved in December 2016 when he ordered dismantling of centuries old grave yard of Sufi saints who had migrated to Rampur in 1774 during the period of Nawab Faizullaha Khan from Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq and the other Central Asian countries."
 
 On the last day of campaign, Azam told party workers, "I had not ordered demolition of any madrassa and graveyard inside the city, but I won't tolerate any illegal encroachment over government land by the people who occupied it in the name of religion."
 
 Playing the Muslim card, Azam also said, "RSS aur BJP walon ko mujhe marwaa daalna koi badi baat nahi hai (for RSS and BJP, it wouldn't be a big ask to get me killed."
 
 Notwithstanding Azam's protestations, the ensuing elections could well be his toughest. He has lost only twice before: the first is a distant memory, in 1977 when he was a tyro. As a pro he forfeited to Congress's Afroz Ali Khan in '95 who is now his camp-follower.
 
 Wednesday's voting suggests BSP's Dr  , a respected radiologist, has cut deep into Azam's Muslim votes in Rampur city. In rural areas, too, the Elephant is trundling heavily. If the Muslim votes split - and the SP-Congress alliance is not showing much gusto hereabouts -BJP's Shiv Bahadur Saxena could squeak past the two.
 
 But, in the iffy event of Hindu votes not consolidating behind the BJP, it's not Azam but Dr Tanveer who stands to gain, as these might transfer to Behenji's party to rid the city of the neo-nawab.
 
 Either way, it's a slippery slope for the redoubtable Azam. There's an elephant in his room, and the man who led the revolt against the titular nawabs of the languid capital of Rohilla Pathans, banishing them from power, could be felled by hubris.
 
 
 
 
