Bengaluru:   reported a near flat revenue growth sequentially in constant currency terms in the fourth quarter and provided a muted revenue guidance for the current fiscal, highlighting the challenging environment for Indian IT services companies.

 Shares of the company fell 3.86% to close at Rs 931.40 on the BSE on Thursday, after the weak guidance more than offset India’s second largest IT service provider’s decision to pay out $2 billion to its shareholders through a dividend and/or stock buyback.
 
 Infosys said it expects to grow between 6.5% and 8.5% in constant currency terms, which discounts the effect of currency fluctuations, over which the companies have no control. On reported basis, the growth is projected at 6.1%-8.1%. This is lower than last fiscal’s 8.3% growth, and lower than Cognizant’s guidance of 8-10% for 2017, suggesting that   Vishal Sikka’s turnaround strategy focusing on automation and innovation is yet to prove itself, or that Cognizant is doing the same thing better.
 
 “Unanticipated execution challenges and distractions in a seasonally soft quarter affected our overall performance,” Sikka said, referring to the unusual public spat between the board and the founders during the quarter that had rocked the company.
 
 Over the past fiscal year, the company slowed down significantly from what it had initially predicted. It had provided a revenue growth guidance of 11.5-13.5% in constant currency in April, but several events, including Brexit, US president Donald Trump’s protectionist policies, as also pricing pressures and clients keeping IT outsourcing budgets tight, compelled the company to lower the guidance thrice. The final number, at 8.3%, is three percentage points below the lower end of the initial guidance. That’s lower than Cognizant’s 8.6% growth for 2016, but is likely to be higher than that of TCS and Wipro, which are yet to announce their final quarter results.
 Such lacklustre growth makes Sikka’s 2021 target of hitting $20 billion in revenue, operating margins of 30% and $80,000 revenue per employee appear a distant dream. And Sikka admitted as much.
 
 “With the performance we have seen in the last few quarters, it was already a difficult thing, and now it is incredibly difficult,” Sikka said. At the current growth rate, Infosys should end at about $14.1 billion in revenue by 2021.
 
 “This reinforces our concern that Infosys has under-invested in client touching capabilities that could lead to further pressure on growth rates and operating margin. Near-term model uncertainty remains high given commoditization of legacy offerings and questions around the near-term contribution potential of the CEO's new areas of investment,” Wells Fargo wrote in a note.
 
 For the quarter ended March 31, revenue grew 0.7% to $2.57 billion sequentially (5% year-on-year) in reported terms, which translates into just $18 million incremental revenue. Net profit dropped 0.8% to $543 million and operating margin slipped 400 basis points to 24.7% as the rupee strengthened against the dollar. It expects operating margin to remain between 23-25% for the ongoing fiscal.
 
 “We have held margins more successfully than our competitors. We had a sharp focus on operational efficiencies through higher offshoring among other things,” chief financial officer M D Ranganath said.
 
 
