BIJNOR: The foul smelling seasonal   that flows through Bijnor district has forced many people living in the villages along its banks to migrate elsewhere. For years, industries located in the area have been dumping effluents into it and little has been done to prevent this or clean it up.
 
  Though politicians and candidates have been paying lip service to the issue, Chhoiya remains dirty as ever.
  
  In the last   elections,   had also raised the issue and promised that the river will be cleaned but the situation remains same.
  
  This time too, villagers living in about 50 villages — Sundarpur, Ravanpur, Navada, Gadana, Haddarpur, Sihora, Salmabad, Bhairera, Agri, Jalalpur, Sikandari and Shahpur Lal, among others — have started raising the polluted Chhoiya issue before candidates, saying that they will vote for only those candidates who resolve their problems and stop draining of effluents by factories into its waters.
  
    resident Nrapendra Deshwal who has been campaigning for a clean river said, “River Chhoiya has become a menace for the people living on its banks. My village is also close to this river. People are migrating elsewhere because of its polluted water and the effluents spewed by factories into the air. Several villagers have died of cancer or other stomach and respiratory diseases. We have been raising this issue continuously. Five year ago, we had taken out a procession through all the villagers near Chhoiya to press for ridding us of this menace.”
  
  Deshwal added that letters were sent to the President. Then MP Sanjay Chauhan had also raised the issue in Lok Sabha. Besides, Uma Bharti had visited some villages near the river, during the last assembly polls and assured them that if   comes to power, no one would pollute the river. But so far no action has been taken. There are five factories which release their polluted water into river despite having treatment plants, When we complain to authorities, a team comes to take samples of the water. But situation remains the same.”
