PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The rampant release of untreated   and industrial effluents into   has become a cause for concern, more so since it has caused the death of a large number of fish.

 Foul smell, pollution of groundwater, low crop yield, skin diseases, mosquito menace are among the problems faced by residents of Sastewadi, Gaikwadvasti, Bauddhavasti, Barnevasti in Moshi as well as Chikhligaothan and Dudulgaon located along the river.
 
 In the 1980s, the irrigation department had built a Kolhapur Type (KT) weir on Indrayani river in Moshi around two kilometre downstream from the Pune-Nashik highway to store water for irrigation in Chikhli, Moi, Kuruli, Moshi and Chimbli villages. 
 
 The villages of Moi, Kuruli and Chimbli are located on the other side of the river and fall outside the municipal limits.
 
 This KT weir is also used by two-wheelers and pedestrians to cross the river. Water   has covered the river on both sides of the weir. Thousands of fish have died in the river and can be seen upon moving the hyacinth. A foul smell persists in the area.
 
 Indrayani river flows along the northern boundary of   (PCMC) limits. In 1997, Talawade, Chikhli, Moshi, Charholi and Dudulgaon, located by Indrayani river, along with another 13 villages were merged into the municipal corporation limits.
 
 82-year-old farmer  , who owns an agricultural plot near the weir in Moshi, said, “Earlier, the river was so clean that we would drink the water and swim in it but the water started getting polluted about 10 years ago. The crop yield has reduced by 20% due to the polluted water. Tomatoes and brinjals drop from the plants before maturity and cauliflower does not grow to full potential, reducing the yield.”
 
 According to farmers in the area, the groundwater in areas up to 1,200 feet from the river has become polluted and borewells have also been affected in Moshi. Another farmer Raju Saste, who lives in the vicinity, said, “We get drinking water from PCMC but the animals drink the water from the river when they are brought here for grazing. The water makes them ill.”
 
 Changdev Kudale, a farmer from the village, pointed out, “Motors of pumps supplying water to the fields are located in the riverbed. We have suffered from skin rashes after we enter the river to use the pumps,” he added.
 
 Speaking to TOI, assistant commissioner and Zone E officer of PCMC Chandrakant Indalkar said, “We regularly remove the water hyacinth but it grows back. The health department will invite bids to allot a contract to remove water hyacinth from Indrayani river soon.” The bids could not be invited earlier due to the election code of conduct. 
 
 A civic health official said, “The domestic untreated sewage released into the river provides an ideal environment for fast growth of water hyacinth. The chemicals released through untreated industry effluents has caused the death of fish.”
 
 Sandeep Alhat, a resident of Laxminagar in Moshi said, “We stay around half a kilometer from the river but still have to face mosquito menace due to the rampant growth of water hyacinth in the river after the end of rainy season. People who go to switch on or off the motors of water pumps in the riverbed for watering their adjacent fields have to face problems of itching and boils after they come out of the polluted water.”
 
