BENGALURU:   -India's   non-playing captain -has gone with form rather than reputation for the country's second-round, Asia-Oceania Group One clash against  's Uzbekistan to be played at the Karnataka State Lawn Tennis Association courts here from April 7 to 9.

 Bhupathi, a big and solid shotmaker in his heydays, went with India's top four singles players --Ramkumar Ramanathan (ranked 269), Yuki Bhambri (307), Prajnesh Gunneswaran (325) and Sriram Balaji (350) -leaving out doubles specialists   and   from the four-man squad.
 
 The injured Saketh Myneni, ranked 309, was out of the reckoning.
 
 Bhupathi, however, has time until the morning of the draw (April 6) to change his mind about the combination.
 
 "Balaji has done very well in the six Futures tournaments he has played these last weeks, the same with Prajnesh. It's hard to ignore those performances," Bhupathi said.
 
 The Mumbai-based 42-year-old, who'll arrive here on April 2 for a five-day camp before the tie, said he could change his mind about the playing four once he sees all six players on the practice court.
 
 Balaji, who won the title at the Futures event at the KSLTA courts two weeks ago, made five singles finals, winning two titles, besides winning four doubles crowns (in tandem with  ) in a six-week stretch. Prajnesh, who played the last three Futures events, only entered the singles draw, winning two titles.
 
 Meanwhile Bopanna, ranked 23, who won his first tournament of the year in Chennai and made the final in Dubai in February, has gone three weeks without a match win, Indian Wells, Miami and a Challenger tournament in Dallas. Paes, 43, ranked 57, also hasn't logged a match win since falling to Bopanna and Poland's Marcin Matkowski in the semifinals in Dubai.
 
 Bhupathi, who asked the players to undergo fitness tests almost as soon as he took over the reins of captaincy, following India's opener in February, said three of the players -Prajnesh, Balaji and Bopanna -had completed the tests, while Ramkumar, Bhambri and Paes were expected to finish the same later this week.
 
 Bhupathi may have made his call, interesting as it is, keeping in mind that singles players who also play doubles are increasingly topping tournament draws. A growing number of the top-ranked doubles players also play singles--World No.1  , Pierre-Hugues Herbert and Ivan Dodig to name a few.
 
 Istomin, who shocked Novak Djokovic in the second round of the Australian Open, is believed to be struggling with injury and may pull out of the Bengaluru clash.
 
