HYDERABAD: At a time when the state is engaged in a bitter water war with its neighbor Andhra Pradesh,   is feeling the heat due to the sudden death of its irrigation advisor R Vidyasagar Rao. It is now making desperate attempts to find a suitable replacement for him as time is running out to present its arguments at the Brijesh Kumar Tribunal as well as the Krishna and Godavari river boards. 

 During his tenure, Vidyasagar Rao had ensured timely response and effective arguments in support of Telangana at all important forums thus giving a strong advantage to the fledgling state. The advisor with his vast experience as engineer and central water commission official left a mark at inter-state water forums. To fill-up the gap, the TRS government has started scouting for an irrigation expert. Though there are several retired chief engineers with vast experience to be appointed advisor, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is keen on having a trusted engineer in the cru- cial position. 
 
 Unlike previous chief ministers who used to leave everything in the irrigation department to officials and engineers, Chandrasekhar Rao is known for his total involvement in the subject. He himself changed the design of several irrigation projects including Pranahita - Chevella, Palamuru - Ranga Reddy and Dindi to cover larger ayacut and deliver higher dividends. "Now, the chief minister wants somebody who can gel with his frequency. He wants an irrigation expert with a political bent of mind as several issues have gained inter-state status," said a senior official in the government.
 
 According to sources, permanent invitee of TRS politburo Devaruppala Bhimayya name has been under consideration. The retired superintending engineer has been associated with the Telangana movement and submitted a report to the   before the bifurcation. He enjoys a close rapport with KCR. Similarly, the names of retired engineers Bhagayatha Reddy, G Prabhakar, K Satyanarayana Reddy, Anantha Ramulu, Venkata Rama Rao, Shyam Prasad Reddy are also under examination. Meanwhile, KCR has enquired about Telangana engineers working in the Central Water Commission and water resources ministry. 
 
