As a footballer,   was good, really good. So good that she became the first woman to score a hat-trick for India; so good that she was voted Player-of-the-Decade in 1980 and so good that, since her retirement in 1981, nobody has even come remotely close to replicating her achievements on the field.

 Before she took to football, she was good in hockey too; so good that she was once summoned to represent India, never mind that the government did not eventually clear the trip to Russia due to political concerns.
 
 She is equally good in art and continues to showcase her exhibitions around the world, primarily London, Montreal, Venice, Moscow and Berlin. Next month, she has been invited to the International Art Camp in Romania, and she will make her presence felt in a country rich in history, arts and scenic beauty.
 
 How can someone be so talented, and that too in such diverse fields like sports and art? You’ve heard about her exploits in football, hockey and art. And we haven’t even mentioned athletics and badminton, a sport she was so good that she once participated in a zonal badminton camp that also featured All England champion Prakash Padukone in Madras (now Chennai).
 
 May be it was simply all in the genes. Her father, Joveniano de Sousa, was a champion footballer of yesteryears who plied his trade in Mumbai, primarily with Tata SC. And her mother, Rita Augusta, was an exceptional painter, mastering an art form which very few in the state have.
 
 “We had it in our genes. Mum was arty while dad was good in every game,” said Yolanda, speaking to us one fine morning at her residence in Calangute, where she is settled with Rudolf Kammermeier, her husband of German origin, and daughter Sarah.
 
 Yolanda’s remains a fascinating story and deserves to be told. It may not be the case elsewhere, but at least in this part of the world it has clearly mattered to many that football is synonymous with masculinity. But, as Yolanda’s story would demonstrate, that was never the case when she got enveloped by the magic of football.
 
 “Football came naturally to me, playing alongside my brother (Francisco) and his friends, but most of the times I was shunted to the goal,” recalls Yolanda, who went on to become the first Goan to captain the Indian football team.
 
 Yolanda, now 62, picked up hockey from her brother’s friends, who came home from Pune – where they lived -- during holidays, while her uncle Benjamin Góis Proença, a man who knew most games, took pains to teach them games like tennis and ball badminton.
 
 “I picked up badminton while in school at Little Flower (in Calangute) from our physical education teacher David. We played the game even though we didn’t know the rules,” said Yolanda.
 
 It was football, though, that Yolanda fell in love with, scoring a goal in a friendly against a men’s team – appropriately called Adam’s – during carnival celebrations at Police ground in 1973. It was however, not until 1976 when Goa took part in their first National Football Championship at Sultanpur and Yolanda scored a bagful of goals – 15 in all, including two hat-tricks – that she arrived on the big scene.
 
 “We should have won the Nationals but suffered due to the absence of our regular coach. Funnily, during the Nationals, we were accused of moving out of our regular accommodation and staying at a hotel so that we could all drink in peace and then dominate on the field! In truth, we just couldn’t adjust in the accommodation that the organizers provided and the less said the better about the food,” she recalled.
 
 Goa subsequently won the National Championship the next year at home, starting with a 25-0 demolition of Madhya Pradesh in the opener and 3-0 rout of defending champions Bengal in the final. Yolanda herself scored 18 goals in the championship, confirming her status as one of India’s finest ever footballer.
 
 “I really haven’t kept track of all the goals that I have scored but I clearly remember the one I missed. It was during the opening match of the 1981 World Cup in Taiwan. We played Germany and I went close in the opening minutes. We drew the match but Germany went on to win the World Cup,” said Yolanda, who married Rudolf, a German, in 1992 after first meeting him, on a football field, in 1979.
 
 A knee injury the same year forced Yolanda to cut-short her career and she started to devote more time to her other passion, painting. Just like football, she excelled on this canvas as well at a time when Goan art was still in the throes of being appreciated or even completely accepted.
 
 Expectedly, she now has little time for football, apart from watching a few matches on television, and admits she is “totally into art”, expressing her thoughts inside her studio located on the first floor. Little wonder, she continues to be good, really good.
 
 
