
Busts, statues and portraits of Gandhi are ubiquitous. They’re in government offices, on street corners, on postage stamps — but what if they popped out of their inanimate omnipresence and came alive on your screen? That’s what Goan artist Subodh Kerkar is trying to do as part of his two-year ‘Reclaiming Gandhi Through Art’ project, timed to open for Gandhi’s 150th birth anniversary in 2019.
 
 He conceptualised the project a few months ago after a computer engineer turned up at his studio with 3D software, wanting to use Kerkar’s works. On a whim, the 58-year-old artist suggested using a Gandhi bust instead. “We took 3,000 photos of the bust and fed it into the program, which converts it into a three-dimensional image you can print. It throws up so many facets of what you think is an inert statue,” says Kerkar, known for conceptual installation works that blend art, history, sociology and politics.
 
 The result got Kerkar, a history buff and an admirer of Gandhi, thinking about how one could make statues come to life for a tech-savvy generation. So he sent the image to the cloud and created a code for it so that a person can hold a smartphone to the code, and see the popping 3D image on the screen.
 
  
  
 
 
 “Then we thought why not do this for all the Gandhi statues across the country, or at least as many as we can — Gandhi will no longer be a statue you just walk past without thinking twice,” says Kerkar. “It’s a good way to get people thinking about Gandhi again, his many ideas and facets.” He’s getting students to help, and they’ll travel around the country photographing sculptures of Gandhi, good and bad, as well as the many photos on office walls.
 
 Kerkar, founder of contemporary art gallery Museum of Goa, is known for his talks on exploring history through art, infusing his large works, usually displayed on the beaches of Goa, with references to colonialism, migration and the history of his state. “I use the contemporary idiom to narrate history. Colonialism changed everything from our politics and culture to our cuisine and society,” says the artist, who is in London this week to give a talk at a conference on ‘Gandhi in the 21st Century’ sponsored by University College London.
 
 Kerkar says he’d painted from childhood, inspired by his father, but went to medical college when he was 18 because “like most young people I didn’t know what to do”. He gave up medical practice after about a decade. “Most of my patients were British tourists with dysentery, and the idea of treating British dysentery for the rest of my life was horrible. I mean, we took enough shit from the British colonialists for 150 years,” he says, laughing. “I gave up the most established profession on earth to take up the most uncertain,” he says.
 
 Though his deadline is 2019, Kerkar has already started work, marking the 100th anniversary of Gandhi’s Champaran Satyagraha movement in April. He enlisted 3,000 students to create a ‘Carpet of Joy’ installation with 1.5 lakh discarded plastic bottles painted and cut to resemble flowers. The installation at Saligao Circle in Goa was opened on April 11 and will be on show till the end of May.
 
 “I wanted people to think about garbage and recycling. If Gandhi were alive today and had to pick an issue for his satyagraha, I believe it would be litter. To litter is an act of violence, and it’s not just about litter we see around us; it’s also about litter in the mind, that’s the litter that makes us act with violence,” he says.
 
 Kerkar also plans to document the work of other artists on Gandhi as well as get 1,000 schoolchildren to dress as Gandhi and have them participate in an installation he's planning. “It’s not only about my own work. The idea is to reclaim Gandhi from those who merely garland or praise him but do not really follow his path. And art is our path to reclaim Gandhi,” he says.
 
