KOLKATA:  , the widow of accident victim Sanjay Roy, whose death on Friday opened a can of worms about the state of private healthcare in the city , on Sunday lodged an  , capping a   activity which started with Trinamool MP Kalyan Banerjee's visit to their home and the hospital authorities failing to hand over the   and fixed deposits to her.

 Police sources said they were examining whether a case could be started against the hospital on extortion and negligence charges.
 
 Sanjay died at SSKM Hospital early on Friday after spending eight days at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals after his accident the Thursday before last. His family alleged that the shift happened after 9pm only after they cleared medical bills amounting to Rs 7.23 lakh.
 
 Only two days before his death, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had met representatives of private hospitals and given them a piece of her mind about charges of inflated billing and negligence.
 
 Given the fact that the state health department, prima facie, isn't convinced by Apollo's defence, the FIR -which can draw non-bailable sections like Section 383 IPC (extortion) -gives it more legroom to act.
 
 Faced with the FIR against it, a medical and administration team of the hospital will meet on Monday to discuss the case of Sanjay . “Another report will be submitted after a more detailed probe into the allegation levelled against us,“ said an Apollo source. That the state is serious abo ut its firm stance against the ills of private healthcare became clear earlier in the day when Burdwan police arrested four officials of PG Nursing home -Abdul Khatib, Jainal Abedin, Sauvik Santra and Hasibul Kabir -and slapped them with serious charges like extortion and abetment to suicide. According to the complaint, the nursing home had slapped a three-day ICU bill of Rs 42,420 to treat a Mayureshwar teenager.The West Bengal Clinical Establishments. (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010 doesn't have any provisions that allows private nursing homes to slap additional ICU charges.
 
 Around 11am, the grieving Roy family in Dankuni's Nandankanan had a visitor: MP Kalyan Banerjee. “What I heard from Ruby is shocking,“ the MP said later. “They have even charged Rs 3,500 for the ambulance to shift the patient to SSKM, and Rs 800 for the hospital apron. I have advised them to take appropriate legal steps. I have advised them to first lodge a police complaint and then perhaps a complaint to the State Consumer Redressal Forum. This isn't only inhuman but criminal.“
 
 Ruby's brother-in-law, Rajesh Pal, said: “It gives us lot of strength in these trying times that the state, along with CM Mamata Banerjee, is with us.“
 
 Around 3pm, the family left for Kolkata to lodge a police complaint. They first met DCP (ESD) Debosmita Das. In what is perhaps an indication to the importance police attached to their complaint, the DCP accompanied the family to the Phoolbagan police station. After a meeting with the DCP , Ruby said: “Aami er shesh dekhteh chai (I want to pursue this matter to the end). I will complain to the state health department.“
 
 Around 5pm, three Apollo officials reached Dankuni police station with a sealed envelope reportedly containing the refund cheque and the FD. They met Uttarpara circle inspector Asit Baran Kuilla and urged help to hand over the envelope to the Roys. Kuilla told them the Rays were not home. The officials urged him to keep it in police custody and hand it over to them. Kullia told them it was beyond his legal ambit to safeguard such cheques. The officials returned, without speaking to the local reporters.
 
 (With inputs by Falguni Banerjee in Dankuni)
 
 
