BHUBANESWAR/KENDRAPADA: The Centre in its Union Budget has sanctioned Rs 200 crore for 82-km-long   project to speed up its work. Last year also the railways had allotted Rs 200 crore for this project. Consistent in   for consecutive two financial years will boost the project work.

 This year, the state government had demanded Rs 200 for this project sanctioned in 1996-97 and the Centre fulfilled the demand.
 But it was getting meager amount for the project before 2016-17. In 2015-16, the Railways had thrown a spanner for the project by allotting a meager amount of Rs 36.8 crore though the state government had demanded Rs 300 crore for this project to include Kendrapada district in railways map.
 
 Due to non-allotment of sufficient funds in the past, the project work had been moving at a snails pace since more than a decade. But now we hope the project will be completed within a year, said Professor Ajaya Samal, president of  .
 
 The then railway minister   on April 4, 1999, had laid the foundation stone near Marshaghai of Kendrapada district to build the railway line. At that meeting, the railway minister had promised to complete the construction work of the railway line in the year 2004.
 
 This railway line was sanctioned primarily to cater the movement of freight, export of finished products of steel plants and imported coking coal from Paradip to the industries. The industries located in Duburi and the iron ore deposits in Keonjhar district are in proximity to this rail link. The required lands measuring an area of 1,780 acres for the proposed project of constructing 82 km stretch railway line, which will cover three districts- Kendrapada, Jagatsinghpur and Jajpur.
 
 The projects is now going in a fast pace due to sanction of fund from the Railways. This is an important project earmarked by the state government. Keeping the project delay in mind, the government has formed Haridaspur Paradip Railway Company Limited (HPRCL), a special purpose vehicle (SPV) with the Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) of Ministry of Railways. Besides state government and Railways, two government companies and four private companies are the part of the SPV.
 
 When contacted, Srinivas Sahoo, joint general manager of RVNL, Bhubaneswar, said, Earlier the project cost was estimated to around Rs1500 crore, but it has already been enhanced to Rs 1800 crore.
 
 HPRCL managing director PK Mishra said they have completed 62 per cent work of the project. "We have completed work of a major bridge on river Mahanadi and will complete another major bridge on river Luna very soon," said Mishra.
 
