LUCKNOW: A   on the roads of Lucknow when teams from   chased five   on early Wednesday . The climax had five robbers getting arrested after an   at   on Faizabad Road.
Two of the arrested robbers suffered gunshot injuries and were admitted to the KGMU trauma centre. No policeman was hurt in the exchange of fire.
 
 The accused were out to carry out robbery at the house of businessman Pradeep Bansal who lives near Bhootnath market in Indiranagar. This was the third shootout in the city within a month.
 
 Around 2.35am, residents of colonies near the Kukrail bridge woke up to the sound of gunshots. Police cornered the five robbers at Kukrail bridge after a 15-minute chase and a fierce exchange of fire ensued between the two sides. The arrested men were identified as Anwar Khan, Vikas Dubey , Rehan Qureshi, Sadiq Hussain and Tehsib Khan, all natives of Farrukhabad. Police recovered a car, a pistol of .32 bore, three country-made weapons, 50 cartridges, iron rod, five injections and several medicines from them. Qureshi and Anwar were injured in the shootout. The accused had been named in 27 cases of loot, theft, and dacoity in Lucknow, Farrukhabad, Hardoi and Sitapur, said police. Around 2.10am on Wednesday , the five accused started in a car from Shaheed Path. When they reached the Polytechnic crossing, they were intercepted by a police team led by inspector Anand Shahi from Hazratganj police station. Police had prior information about the gang's movement.
 
 On seeing the police, the accused sped off towards the Faizabad Road. Then began the chase. The accused took a sharp left turn towards Lax manpuri colony .
 
 In the meantime, a team of Sarojininagar police, which was present at Jugoli crossing in Laxmanpuri, intercepted them in Vishwas Khand of Gomtinagar. Caught unawares, the miscreants then turned back and drove towards Rabindrapalli colony to reach Neelgiri crossing and then Kukrail Bridge.
 
 But they ran out of luck on the bridge as another team was waiting there. Police said Qureshi and Anwar were taken to Ram Manohar Lohia hospital from where they were referred to KGMU trauma centre. They are out of danger. SSP Deepak Kumar said Hussain had suffered a huge loss in a land deal.To make up for the loss, he planned the robbery .
 
 
