NAGPUR: President Ram Nath Kovind will dedicate luxurious Suresh   to public on September 22 but the Nagpur Municipal Corporation ( ) will begin renting it out for events only after October 15.

 The civic body has already started receiving interest from patrons for bookings due to its seating capacity of 2,000 people, state-of-the-art facilities, sprawling parking and affordable rates.
 
 Mayor Nanda Jichkar, ruling party leader Sandip Joshi, municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal, former mayor Pravin Datke, deputy mayor Deepraj Pardikar, standing committee chairman Sandip Jadhav along with slew of office bearers and officials took stock of preparations for the inaugural programme on Wednesday.
 
 In the press conference held at the auditorium, Jichkar said inaugural programme will be made Live on NMC’s Facebook account, Smart display boards will be erected on various squares and a LED screen will be erected in Reshimbagh ground for over 3,000 people.
 
 NMC sources told TOI that rates of the auditorium for cultural, art and educational events are likely to be around Rs11,000-20,000 for three hours. “Rates for commercial conferences and events will be around Rs50,000. Union Minister   has suggested the NMC to keep Rs5,000 for cultural, art and educational events but not possible for operation and maintenance cost. Joshi and Datke will meet Gadkari and finalize rates after inaugural programme,” sources said.
 
 The state PWD’s Deshpande hall with capacity of 900 seats is facilitated at Rs33,000 for 3 hours. Rates of halls maintained by private associations are higher.
 
 Joshi said appointment of an agency to operate and maintain the auditorium will take time but bookings to be commenced by the NMC after October 15. “NMC will operate and maintain for first six months or so by appointing house keeping agency on temporary basis,” he said.
 
 Datke said the auditorium is biggest among all with civic bodies in the state. “NMC’s auditorium is biggest than one constructed by BMC at Mumbai. Parking facility for 300 cars and 900 two-wheelers made in basement, stilt and open area. Plan is to facilitate charging point for electric cars in parking area,” he said.
 
 Joshi added auditorium will not be rented out for marriage and private functions. “NMC’s general body meetings will be organized in the auditorium when Town Hall to be undertaken for construction purpose.”
 
 Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, governor C   Rao, Nitin Gadkari, guardian minister   will be present at the inaugural programme which will commence at 4.15pm on September 22 and conclude within an hour. Renowned classical singer Padmaja Phenani will perform ‘Kevha Tari Pahate’ in the auditorium at 7pm that will be the first event of the auditorium. The event will be open to all free of cost and also without any pass system.
 
 Auditorium’s architect Ashok Mokha said 704 solar panels installed on auditorium’s roof top will generate 205kv power. “It is developed in 1,31,480 sq.ft area (3.01 acres). Auditorium’s uniqueness lies in its architectural and structural design with geometrical shape in plan, elevation and size. Overall footprint of the building is 180 feet X 440 feet, whereas inner dimensions are 120 feet X 240 feet. Hall is of 120 feet wide X 135 feet depth with height of 40 feet. Probably for the first time in country, the main hall has three modules of seating for 1,330 seats, 1578 seats and 1,988 seats,” he said.
 
 
