GURUGRAM: Nearly three months after a 2.5 year-old male   was allegedly beaten to death in Mandawar, a city-based animal activist has sent notice to the police commissioner, deputy commissioner and additional chief secretary of the forest department demanding an explanation over inaction.

 Amit Chaudhery, president,   (PFA), Gurgaon, sent the 60-day notice under Section 55 of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 highlighting that the officials have still not yet registered an FIR in the case.
 
 On November 24, 2016, a group of villagers allegedly killed the wild cat after it strayed into Mandawar from the Aravalis. The big cat was reportedly beaten to death in the presence of cops and wildlife officials.
 
 “The leopard strayed in search of food and water into Mandawar village. He was killed around three hours after the villagers first informed the police and the wildlife department. The authorities did not respond and did not prevent the   of the leopard by the mob. They turned into mute spectators and watched the leopard being brutally killed for over 25 minutes. No FIR has still been filed. This is in itself is an offence by the wildlife department and district administration,” reads the notice (a copy of which is with TOI) sent by Chaudhery.
 
 Chaudhery further alleged that after the incident was reported, only four wildlife officials reached the village late and carried only a net, no tranquilisers, gun (which came later) and was not used. “The leopard was spotted on three separate occasions before the incident and wildlife officials did nothing. No measures were taken to proactively capture the animal, and Section 144 was not imposed to prevent crowds from gathering in the event of the leopard straying into the village,” he further said.
 
 He further warned that if the authorities fail to submit a response, he will move the court against the officials concerned for violation of Section 9 with 2 (15), 2(16 b, c), 2(35), Section 51 and 52 of Wildlife Protection Act (1972).
 
 Meanwhile,  , district forest officer (Wildlife), Gurgaon said, “As the killing of the leopard was a very serious matter, we are taking the required actions in the case. We have already prepared a report and sent it to the authorities.”
 
