NEW DELHI: Despite India putting up a spirited show in a bid to wrest momentum back in the second India v Australia Test at Chinnaswamy Stadium, Bangalore, Australia managed to stay ahead mainly riding on Matt Renshaw and Shaun Marsh's supreme effort in the middle, battling a difficult pitch and a disciplined Indian bowling attack on day two. The visitors finished the day on 237 for six, with a lead of 48 runs. 

 To finish on 40 for no loss, when the opposition has been bundled out for 189 on Day 1 of a Test match on a track that was assisting the bowlers was an admirable effort from Australian openers Renshaw and David Warner and while Warner failed to get going on day two, Renshaw put the gauntlet down displaying great concentration skills to keep India at bay in the first session. In the second, India managed a slight comeback scalping three wickets, but owing to the lack of luck and disastrous reviewed decisions, India were pegged back further in their bid to keep up with Australia. 
 
 The assist from the pitch was there on offer similar to how it was for the Australian spinners, and Ravichandran Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja bowled beautifully, albeit without the desired results. For all of the 35 overs bowled by Ashwin on day two, he spun the ball, the track offered him bounce and he got Warner with one that spun from outside leg to crash on to the offstump in the third over of the day. After that Ashwin failed to strike and more importantly wasted three reviews. One was an evident inside edge off Shaun Marsh that was reviewed for a leg before decision and the other on Matthew Wade, when the wicketkeeper batsman seemed to have pad-gloved one that spun off the rough, but the review rightly showed there was no connect with the glove. India lost both their reviews within 13 overs after the reset. On the other hand, Marsh got his review right when he was trapped in front by Umesh Yadav. Coming over the wicket, the ball had pitched outside the line and the rest of the ball tracking evidence was thrown out of the equation. 
 
 Earlier, after the fall of Warner, captain Steve Smith and Renshaw went about surviving for most part of the first session. Australia crawled to 87 for 2 at lunch after Smith bat-padded one off Jadeja to depart for eight off 52 balls. Mere 47 runs were added in the session. They needed a move on in the second. The visitors then scored 76 runs in the post-lunch session to put India under pressure, but Australia’s intent to score runs was an opportunity for India to take wickets. Ashwin and Jadeja got enough bounce and turn while Ishant and Umesh got variable bounce that had the batsmen in trouble for quite a few instances. Renshaw starting the session batting on 44, displayed immaculate technique and fantastic concentration to reach his third Test fifty. After he got to his landmark, he looked to up the ante. He started coming down the track to attack the spinners and got a six off Jadeja coming down the track over long-off. But in the same over, going for the same shot he was stumped down the legside after the left-arm spinner had dragged the length back. 
 
 Shaun Marsh, at the other end, was in all sorts of trouble. Umesh put in a hostile spell of fast bowling and assisted by the cracks on the pitch shot a couple past Marsh. In the 57th over, Umesh got one to hit the crack and the ball moved away taking a faint edge off Marsh’s glove, keeper Wriddhiman Saha appealed to no avail and India chose not to review the decision. Marsh went in to tea unbeaten on 38 after that reprieve. Peter Handscomb too was keen to come down the track to cover the line of the ball and score runs. A couple of crafty flicks while on the move earned the middle-order batsman a couple of boundaries, but a repeat of the shot against Jadeja found Ashwin at short midwicket. Ashwin leapt to his right to grab the ball but as he went down the ball popped out. As luck would have it, instead of hitting the ground the ball hit his forearm and then on to his hand. That wicket rejuvenated India and with only three more overs to go, India were on the lookout for a wicket. Virat Kohli started to amp up the crowd again and the pressure got to Mitchell Marsh who was trapped in front for 0 off the last ball before tea.
 
 In the third session, Shaun Marsh continued to live a charmed life as Ishant again trapped him in front only to overstep and the Australian made full use of the reprieves to compile his sixth Test fifty. More importantly, he combined with Wade for a crucial 57-run stand for the sixth wicket in the final session when it seemed India could take the advantage after reducing Australia to 163 for five at tea. During the pivotal partnership Australia took the lead, but soon after Marsh was caught at short midwicket off Umesh for 66. Wade (25*) continued on in company of Mitchell Starc and extended Australia’s to lead to 48.
 
 
  Australia 237/6 (Shaun Marsh 66, Renshaw 60; Jadeja 3/49) lead India 189 (Rahul 90; Lyon 8/50) by 48 runs 
 
 
