NAGPUR: The all important   ( ), gateway to prestigious IITs, will be held this Sunday. Experts say students must maintain their cool and approach the paper in a systematic way as it’s very easy to get tensed and falter. 

 Abhishek Bansal said, “Any exam is like a battle wherein you need to know the battleground for its intricacies and advantage points. Same way a student should compulsorily invest the initial three to four minutes in looking at whole paper, using symbols to mark the easy moderate and tough questions and then start attempting the paper taking his favourite subject first.” He added that this initial planning helps student to optimize the time available. 
 
 Nisha Kothari, director of   said, “Students must read the instructions carefully and be prepared for surprises that IITs always give.”
 
 Dilip Vaidya, director (academics),  , said, “While giving exam one should focus on accuracy and aim to solve questions one is totally sure of rather than solving too many question, which might result in less or negative marks.” 
 
 He added that cut off for JEE Advanced will be less this year. Vaidya said, “As compared to previous years it will be less because if you note even the cut off of JEE Main was not very high.” 
 
 The examination consists of two papers (Paper 1 and Paper 2) of three hour duration each. Both the papers are compulsory. Candidates using the services of a scribe will get one hour compensatory time. The candidates should satisfy at least one of the following two criteria for admission to IITs. First, they must have secured at least 75% aggregate marks in the   examination. The aggregate marks for SC, ST and PwD candidates should be at least 65%.
 
 Second, they must be within the category‐wise top 20 percentile of successful candidates in their respective board examination. The percentile calculation will be done for the required subjects in a single academic year only. 
 
 For candidates who appeared in the Class XII (or equivalent) Board examination in 2016 but reappeared in 2017, the best of the two performances will be considered.
 
 
