BENGALURU:   Mukherjee, 27, is in the first trimester of her pregnancy. A thalassemia patient, she has to visit Bangalore Medical Services Trust ( ) once a month for red blood cells (RBCs) transfusion. But today, Preetha is all excited about reaching another milestone in her life.
Thalassemia is a genetic blood disorder in which a patient's body cannot produce enough RBCs.
 
  The person needs to be supplemented with RBC transfusions every 2-3 weeks to survive and stay healthy, depending on the severity of the condition. As per a 2005 Indian   (ICMR) study, prevalence of thalassemia in the general population is zero to 3%. Every year, 10,000 children with thalassemia major are born in India. Of these, 50% die before the age of 20 due to poverty and lack of treatment.
 
 Patients suffering from the condition have to contend with stigma as well. “I suffer from thalassemia. But I have dared the stigma it brings along.When I got married, my spouse's family knew about it.We deserve quality life,“ says Preetha, who has been fighting for the rights of others like her and works on awareness.
 
 BMST, which was earlier known as TTK Blood Bank, started a thalassemia day care centre in 1992. Now, it does 1,800 transfusions a year. “There's hardly any awareness about thalassemia,“ says Dr Latha Jagannathan, medical director, managing director, BMST.
 
 Thalassemia patients in Bengaluru usually maintain haemoglobin levels of 10 gdl, which is 5 gdl in many other states, says Preetha, attributing it to better facilities available in the city .
 
 Sameena Mariam, a nurse with BMST, who manages the day care centre, helping patients with blood transfusion is proud that her patients are doing well in life and career.“Many of them come alone for transfusion. Some whom I have been treating from their childhood days are engineers, PhD scholars, advocates and bankers today . One girl did her masters in physiotherapy in the US,“ says Sameena.
 
 Centre makes efforts to create awareness about condition
 
 BMST's aim is to move towards `No more thalassemia day'. In 2010, the centre started a project to create aware n e s s ab o u t t h a l a s s e m i a among patients' families. “A thalassemia patient would have a carrier in the family.If two carriers marry, there are chances that the child they bear could suffer from thalassemia. Our objective is to counsel and screen relatives of a patient through blood tests to check if there are carriers of thalassemia.If there is carrier in the family, we try to explain to them the consequences and make sure that they don't marry another carrier within the family or outside. But there is so much stigma that it's tough to convince a patient's relatives to undergo blood test,“ says Dr Latha.
 
 In cases family members of patients aren't comfortable about BMST staff visiting their home, BMST provides them transportation to visit the centre to give blood samples. Dr Latha however concedes that it's not a foolproof system. “But at least we are trying to prevent its occurrence,“ she adds. Kamala Eshwar, head of community services, at BMST visits families of patients across Karnataka. “In one family, there were two thalassemia patients. After much counselling, 33 persons agreed to go for blood tests. To our shock, 25% of the family members were carriers,“ Kamala points out.
 
 In another case, Kamala counselled a family in   which had a 20-year-old female patient.
 
 “On testing we realized two cousins, both carriers of thalassemia, were engaged.The family understood the consequences and called off the engagement,“ she says.According to Kamala, communities that have encouraged marriages within close relatives have more number of thalassemia cases.
 
