BENGALURU: Though the state is almost a year away from assembly elections, JD(S) state chief   already seems to be in poll mode, leaving no stone unturned to woo as many demographic bases as possible.

 Seen primarily as a Vokkaliga party with a limited geographical footprint in the Old Mysore region, Kumaraswamy is consciously trying to expand both his voter base and territorial reach. From the traditional methods of showing solidarity with protesters of all hues and holding interactive meetings, he has now taken to social media to connect with younger voters.
 
 But what stands out is his increasing engagement with the urban Bengaluru and the people of north Karnataka. A few weeks ago, cab drivers who had launched a protest against Ola and Uber were pleasantly surprised to find Kumaraswamy amid them with promises to take up their cause if his party came to power. After finding support from the young cab drivers, he announced “HDK Cab” app offering incentives for drivers.
 
 Recently, when anganwadi workers seeking higher wages, largely from north Karnataka, staged Bengaluru’s biggest and largest protest in the recent times at Freedom Park, Kumaraswamy swung into action and came out in their support. He also raised the issue in the assembly.
 
 Kumaraswamy, whose political fortunes have been on the decline after a brief tenure as chief minister, a surprise elevation in itself, he’s now doing everything possible to revive the JD(S) by wooing people of varied backgrounds.
 
 And it’s not without a reason, say party insiders. Considered the preferred party of Vokkaligas, the JD(S) has held sway in the Old Mysore region, but the absence of a meaningful support in urban, coastal and north Karnataka has been hurting the party for long. “Kumaraswamy wants to overcome this gap and do away with its rural party tag,” said a senior leader.
 
 Another reason they say is that many see it as Kumaraswamy’s last chance to stay afloat in the state politics. Being out of government for nearly a decade has meant a paucity of influence and more importantly funds. JD(S) has twice been in power in Karnataka, first as a junior partner in a coalition with the Congress in 2004 and later in 2006 when Kumaraswamy decided to align with the BJP. “It’s extremely difficult for a regional party to sustain for such a long time without being in power,” added another leader.
 
