PUNE: Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar said his party is open to discussions with the BJP if the Shiv Sena withdraws its support to the state government following executive chief Uddhav Thackeray's announcement on Thursday to dump the 25-year-old saffron alliance for the civic elections in February in Maharashtra. 

 When asked if the NCP will support the Devendra Fadnavis government if the Sena decides to withdraw, Pawar, who was speaking to reporters in Pune on Thursday, said, "I don't answer hypothetical questions. Let them take a call and come for discussions. We will take a call."
 
 He said he was 'pained' with Thackeray's announcement that his party was parting ways with the BJP. He refused to answer questions on any possible NCP-BJP tie-up in the state. 
 
 In the 2014 assembly polls, the BJP had won 122 seats. It fell short of 23 MLAs to reach the magic number of 145. Pawar then announced unilateral support to the BJP saying that the NCP's 41 MLAs will back the BJP on the floor of the House. This move had pushed Shiv Sena into a tight corner and Thackeray agreed to join the BJP government to keep the NCP away from the power. 
 
 With new political developments, Pawar has once again played his old cards. The Shiv Sena has 14 ministers in the state cabinet and 63 MLAs in the House. With its own strength of 122 MLAs and support of 41 NCP MLAs, Fadnavis's government can get a clear majority in the House even if the Sena decides to quit.
 
 State BJP leaders, including guardian minister Girish Bapat, were at Pawar's residence in Pune to congratulate him after the central government announced the Padma Vibhushan, the country's second-highest civilian honour for Pawar for public affairs, besides six others. 
 
 However, no BJP leader was ready to comment on a political fallout of the Shiv Sena's announcement to break the alliance. Senior party leaders said the Pawar-Modi bonhomie has already safeguarded Fadnavis's government in the state.
 
 Prime Minister  , who was at Vasantada Sugar Institute in Manjari recently on an invitation from Pawar, had praised the NCP president as an "example" for others in public life. 
 
 "I have personal respect for Sharadrao. I was Gujarat's chief minister. He helped me walk by holding my finger. I feel proud to pronounce this publicly," he had said while congratulating Pawar on completion of 50 years in public life in 2017. The NCP chief, in turn, had praised Modi for his commitment towards the nation.
 
