HYDERABAD: The total uranium resources in the bifurcated   has crossed the one lakh tonnes mark. The state now has 1.04 lakh tonnes of uranium. Andhra Pradesh lost uranium rich regions in Nalgonda-Mahbubnagar to   following the state bifurcation in 2014. 

 However, constant exploration of uranium-rich regions in   and Guntur districts of Andhra Pradesh has resulted in the discovery of more resources in the state.As of February 2017 Andhra Pradesh alone has 1.22 lakh tonnes of uranium oxide, which is equivalent to 1.04 lakh tonnes of uranium metal. Telangana has 18,550 tonnes of uranium oxide or 15,731 tonnes of uranium metal. With the discovery of new resources in   in Kadapa and Koppunuru in Guntur districts, Andhra Pradesh has now emerged as the state with the largest reserves of uranium metal in India, according to an official document.
 
 Researchers from the city have turned their attention on the nondescript Koppunuru village in the Palnadu region of Guntur for more uranium reserves. Incidentally , the west Palnadu region on the right bank of the river Krishna, and the Paddagattu-Lambapur region on the left bank are rich in uranium.
 
 According to official data, while Tummalapalle region in Kadapa contains 1,19,930 tonnes uranium oxide (1,01,701 tonnes uranium metal), Koppunuru has 2,761tonnes of uranium oxide (2,341tonnes of metal). Uranium reserves in Koppunuru were identified long ago but the focus has shifted to the region now. The Uranium Corporation of India Limited has already constructed an underground mine in Tummalapalle extending to 7.6 km. It has a capacity to mine about 3000 tonnes of uranium ore every day . A processing plant was also set up in the region.
 
 Aresearch team comprising Y Srinivas, RV Singh,  , PK Sharma and MB Verma published a study on uranium reserves at Koppunuru in the recent issue of the Journal of Geology and Geophysics. The study showed “significant enrichment“ of uranium. The escape of radioactive radon might have accentuated the disequilibrium factor thus increasing the grade of uranium mineralization.
 
 The researchers also found pitchblende and coffinite, which are primary uranium ore minerals in Koppunuru deposit. Uranophane, phosphuranylite, and metazeunerite complex occur as secondary uranium minerals. They collected as many as 870 mineralised core samples from 34 boreholes of Koppunuru area for disequilibrium studies.
 
