 welcomes Hindi Medium actor Irrfan Khan on stage right in the beginning of the episode. Kapil starts by asking the actor if his family is fine, but to everyone's surprise Irrfan says that his family is okay, but dares the host not to ask him about his house.
 
  Irrfan said that he was happy to know that Kapil lived in the same building, in which he had bought a flat. But he had the slightest idea that one tweet of his would create such a ruckus in his life. Irrfan starts blaming the media also, for creating a big hype around it. Irrfan asks Kapil if he has many houses in Mumbai, because he has never seen him around. Then Kapil says that the case was filed on that house even before he moved in. Irrfan's complaints against the host are endless as he says Kapil never even called him to ask if he was okay or not, neither did he aplogise.   taunts Kapil for moving the world upside down on land and even in the air. Kapil then highlights Sidhu's fights within his political party.
  
  Kapil then changes the topic and starts discussing about Irrfan's film and generic topics with him. He heaps praises on the actor for coming a long way in his career. Irrfan started his career with TV, then came into Bollywood and earned recognition in Hollywood industry as well.
  
  Kapil then invites the rest of the cast - Deepak Dobriyal and child actor Dishita Sehgal - on stage. Kapil indulges in a light-hearted conversation with Dishita and praises Deepak for his acting skills in all the films he has done until now.
  
  
 
  
  Sarla comes, dressed in a sari with open hair. She looks good and reveals to Kapil and Irrfan that she has joined as a teacher in a school. Kapil shares a hilarious conversation with Sarla, and the audience is left in splits.
  
  A lawyer walks in and tells Irrfan Khan that he would like to fight his case. He is funny and the audience enjoys his act.
  
  The next guests on the episode to come and sit with the stars are the music directors of Hindi Medium - Sachin-Jigar.
  
  Bachcha Singh ( ) comes and makes the guests laugh on his jokes. His conversation with the guests is hilarious and Sidhu can hardly hold his laughter. He bursts out on each joke he cracks. Kapil's masi (Upashna Singh) also walks in with her onscreen husband and succeeds in making the guests and audience laugh.
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
