MUMBAI: A 19-year-old collegian was arrested on the charge of raping a minor at an abandoned mall in   recently. A maintenance worker who recorded the incident and a security guard of the mall who circulated the video among his friends have also been arrested.

 The teenager has been booked under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code and under Section 4 (penetrative sexual assault) and Section 8 (sexual assault) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offen ces Act (POCSO Act).
 
 According to the police, the youngsters know each other and the incident took place a fortnight ago, when they had gone to the mall on LBS Marg in Bhandup.
 
 Police said that Anand Ilkar, a staff of the maintenance department of the mall, spotted the duo and secretly video recorded the incident on his cellphone. He then allegedly passed on the video to a security guard, Tiku Yadav, who forwarded it to other guards and the video went viral.
 
 The girl's father received the video clip a few days ago and confronted his daughter.“The girl told her father that the youngster had forcibly taken her to the mall in Bhandup and raped her. The father then approached the police,“ an officer said.
 
 After a complaint was lodged, the police questioned the youth and arrested him on Thursday .
 
 An inquiry was also initiated to find out how the video clip went viral. A team of cops went to the mall and identified the location where the clip had been recorded. “From the mall employees' register, we found that Ilkar was on duty on the said day. We questioned him and he admitted to having shot the video. Ilkar told the police that he had passed on the video to Yadav,“ the officer said. Police then picked up Yadav, who said that he had shared the video on a messenger group.
 
 Ilkar and Yadav have been booked under Information Technology Act for intentionally capturing the incident and circulating it, said deputy commissioner of police (zone 7) Sachin Patil. The youngster as well as Ilkar and Yadav have been remanded in police custody.
 
