HYDERABAD: Those part of the media in Delhi in early nineties and covering BJP would recall a familiar face in M Venkaiah Naidu as party spokesperson at daily briefings at the party's  . In hindsight, it was this phase that went on to cement his role and helped him project himself as not a party leader from the south, but as a person who carved his niche in BJP's  

  From then on, there was no looking back.Growing from strength to strength in the BJP , Venkaiah went on to become party national president, served as Union minister in two NDA regimes and, now, is all set to become vice-president, the second highest constitutional office in India.
 
 Venkaiah's first half of the political career was rooted in his native Andhra Pradesh and the second as BJP's key player in national politics and the central government. Born to agricultural parents, Rangaiah Naidu and Ramanamma on July 1, 1949, in Chavatapalem in Nellore district, Venkaiah studied up to his degree college in Nellore town. His first foray into politics was during the Jai Andhra Movement of 1972, when coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema regions wanted to break away from AP , citing injustice.
 
 While a student of PR College, he was elected president of the college students' union.In 1973, he joined ABVP and from then on, it was a one-way ticket to success. In 1973-74, contesting on a ABVP ticket for the first time, Venkaiah went on to become president of Andhra University College of Arts, Commerce & Law and was elected with a mammoth margin. Until formation of BJP in 1980, Venkaiah was fascinated by Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan and joined Janata Party of which JP was the guiding spirit.
 
 In 1977, he was elected president of the   of Janata Party for three years. Riding high on his communication skills, Venkaiah got elected to the AP Assembly twice from Udayagiri constituency in Nellore, first in 1978 and then in 1983. With the formation of BJP , Venkaiah felt it was his homecoming call and remained rooted to saffron ideology . In 1983, he was elected leader of BJP legislature party in AP . He went on to become BJP's AP unit general secretary in 1985 and then as president of the state BJP in 1988. The moment Venkaiah completed his tenure as state party president in 1993, he moved to Delhi and became a major player in BJP's national politics.
 
 After serving in minor positions in the party at Delhi, Venkaiah became its spokesperson in 1993. In 1998, he was elected to Rajya Sabha and went on to remain a member of the   for three terms from Karnataka before shifting to Rajasthan for his current fourth term. After working as rural development minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led NDA government, Venkaiah was entrusted the important position of national BJP president. In the second NDA government under Modi, Venkaiah is currently urban development minister. Venkaiah and Ushamma have a daughter and a son.
 
 Since bifurcation of AP , the two Naidus, Venkaiah and  , both of whom belong to the Kamma community , have worked in tandem for development of the residuary state.Venkaiah's elevation to a constitutional post may tie up his hands in future and could make the going difficult for chief minister Naidu. But for the moment, Venkaiah is all set to enter into a different phase in public life that is bound to be completely different from the one he has been playing till date.
 
