With a mission to clock over 8,000 kilometres across 16 states in 30 days,   has been zipping across cities, towns and villages, across  ,  , Karnataka, and now, the twin Telugu states. Making good time despite all the pit stops and promotional activities thrown in between, the man in the middle of all the action seems to be on fifth gear perennially, always raring to go. And perhaps that explains why it was nearly impossible to catch up with him, despite tailing his car for a good 100-odd kms from Vijayawada to Suryapet at top speed, having missed him by a whisker when he drove out of the city. 

 When we finally managed to reach him, it was only because he stopped for lunch at a local eatery in Suryapet, known for its Andhra and   specialities. “Gongura, chintapacchidi, neyii, annam...” were on his mind as he made his way to the table. So has he been sampling the local cuisine everywhere he goes? “yeah, i make sure,” he chuckles, adding, “I am still looking for a nice pesarattu and allam chutney. I haven’t found it anywhere.” Yogi and mystic he may be, but Sadhguru sure knows his food. He keeps his lunch light; but there’s plenty of conversations and laughter, and some photo-ops with local politicos who turn up to greet him. Watching him chill out at the eatery, you can’t tell he’s been on the road for 3000-odd kilometres in 11 days. So how many hours does he drive every day? “From Puducherry to mysore we drove for 18 hours,” he says, getting up to hit the road again. We make sure we don’t get left behind this time.
 
 
 
 
 People wave out as we roll out of Suryapet in his hard-to-miss bright blue-and-green SUV that’s been making a lot of headlines of late. Does his car get spotted everywhere; do people recognise him on the road? “Yes, quite a bit because till now the states that we’ve been through are ones where people recognise me — be it Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, or now AP. Of course in rural Andhra, people may not know me as well, but they are excited to see us pass by nonetheless,” he says, waving back at a bunch of young kids who giggle excitedly. 
 
 Not everyone shares the same excitement about the rally though. And Sadhguru is aware of the bad press he’s been getting for his choice of vehicle for the rally. “You can’t please everyone, what to do? Thankfully, people understand that I can’t be driving an auto rickshaw for these 8,500-plus kms we plan to cover.” 
 
  “When we started off, we said it will be a 7000-km rally going by what Google maps showed. We’re already reaching 3,900 now, so this trip will be at least 8,500 kms or more. Apart from the pre-fixed 23 events in 30 days, there are so many other things to do en route. Just between Puducherry and Mysore, we had 12 meetings. Then there are school children standing here and there; you have to slow down, say something to them, even if you cannot always get off the car. obviously I am not going to drive an auto, as some people expect me to!” he says, revving up and out speeding the pilot car driving ahead of him at a sluggish 60 kmph. “At this speed, we will have to drive straight into the press conference in Hyderabad,” he says, before requesting the security personnel in the car to check if they can hurry up a little. “I was hoping to catch an hour’s rest before we get to work.” How much sleep does he manage considering this non-stop schedule? “I manage to get three-four hours of rest... on some nights, more.” 
 
 Somewhere near Chityala, one of the escort vehicles that got left behind finally catches up with us. Plastered with the ‘rally for rivers’ bumper stickers urging people to make a missed call, the car with the name plate ‘Sindhu’ — after the river — zooms past. That brings us to the next question that everyone’s been asking — how can a missed call save rivers?
 
 As usual, he begins with a chuckle: “With a missed call, many have started a love affair in their lives. Missed calls have ended in marriages. So all that can happen with a missed call! (laughs) Similarly here, this is your expression of a love affair with the river. because it’s such a long term policy which will take a decade or more to produce results, this requires long term commitment. Every missed call is a vote. It’s a way of taking a vote that you will stand by a long term river rejuvenation policy. because it involves lot of financial outlays, execution complexities and the result will come not immediately; people have to express that this is what we want. we have to say we are no longer a freebie generation. We want action.”
 
 
 While Sadhguru has managed to bring a lot of environmentalists, politicians and other stakeholders on board, some have been pointing out that the campaign ignores real issues. “What are the real issues — pulling down dams and uprooting cities? obviously those who say this are make a living out of this activism. Do you think you are going to be successful in pulling down dams? You hear ‘dam’ and you think ecology. you never see what dams have done for people. maybe it is a painful thing ecologically, I don’t deny that. But do you think you would be eating food the way you are today if not for those dams? Those who never walked in a forest, never saw a river, never seen the struggle of a farmer, can sit and write whatever they want to. can you make something happen on the ground? You may be making a living out of your activism. I appreciate that. But the farmer is not only making a living; he’s feeding all of us.” Just as we hit the Outer Ring Road in what seems like record time, Sadhguru gets nostalgic — “At one time, I used to ride to Hyderabad every month from Mysore. I’m talking about some 30-odd years ago. I used to finish my program at 10:30-11 and hit the highway... In 7 hours 15 mins, I used to reach mysore, riding 740 kms solo! That too on that old Bellary road. Those days, you couldn’t see a single car in hyderabad which wasn’t dented. It was similar to Calcutta, where every ambassador was dented. It was like a punishment for me to drive here. But look at these roads now! In fact, both these states have the best highways I’ve driven through so far. The city itself has changed so much. It’s exciting that I am getting to ride here again after 33 years — on the same tank bund road. i used to hit 130-140kmph in those days on my java. Of course, the traffic was nothing like what it’s today.”
 
 
 
 
