PUNE: Students who have shifted from   ( ) board to the   for   to   (FYJC, Std XI) are having problems because of the predictive scores system. 

 While the IB board declares its standard X results in August, students who wish to shift to the state board are given predictive scores in order to participate in the online common admission process (CAP).
 
 Predictive scores, students said, are almost 10% less than the actual results. Last year, a student was given 77% in the predictive scores, but when the results were declared, he scored 92%. 
 
 By the time the admission rounds were over and the student was allotted Mahavir Pratishthan’s Science College based on his predictive score.
 
 A student, who was allotted Sadhana College in Hadapsar, said, “My score at present is 86% as per my school predictive mark sheet. However, I feel I will get higher marks in the actual result so I deserve a better college. But I have no option but to go with predictive score due to the academic system we have.”
 
 Many students shift from IB to state board for several reasons. Veer Gulati, an IB student who visited the Fergusson College, said, “I would be joining the entrance test preparation class for admission to Indian Institute of Technology. Also, the preferred college is closer to my residence. Hence, I will be shifting to the state board.”
 
 Director of Victorious Kidss Educares, an IB World School in Kharadi, Robbin Ghosh, said students and parents who are complaining about this difference in actual and predictive scores are doing it out of ignorance and anxiety. 
 
 “They must participate through the right channel to be a part of the common admission process approved by the government so that they do not face any difficulties in seeking admission. As far as the marks comparison for predictive and actual results is concerned, there is a minuscule difference between the scores. In most cases, the marks are changed or increased by a small margin by the IB.” This (predictive) gives an added advantage for students admissions."
 
 
