Bathinda: Gurpreet Singh (21), a native of Lehra Mohabbat village in Bathinda district who died in New Delhi after a man ploughed into his bike with a car following an argument over cigarette smoke, was cremated in his native village on Thursday. 

 Keen on photography, he was learning to be a wedding photographer after completing a diploma in mechanical engineering. He was looking forward to turning into a professional photographer in October, after completing documentary ‘The night life on footpaths in Delhi’. 
 
 However, Gurpreet’s dream and that of his family was shattered on Wednesday, when he succumbed to injuries he sustained in the wee hours of September 17 near AIIMS in New Delhi. Gurpreet was injured when his bike, which he was riding along with his friend Maninder Singh, was rammed by Rohit Mahanto’s car. Maninder also sustained injuries in the accident.
 
 Maninder, who is also pursuing a diploma in photography from Delhi, attended the cremation despite his injuries sustained in the road rage incident. “Gurpreet had a passion for photography and left his career in mechanical engineering. He had completed the three-year diploma in mechanical engineering from Bathinda and taken admission in diploma in photography at Delhi in October 2016. He was to complete it on September 30,” Gurpreet’s sister Harpreet Kaur said. “We have lost our beloved one alone, but a dream has come to an abrupt end. We want stringent punishment to the person who killed my brother.” 
 
 Gurpreet’s father Onkar Singh, who works as a technician at the Guru Hargobind thermal plant in Lehra Mohabbat, said, “Rohit killed my son in a fit of rage after being objected to for smoking a cigarette. He should be given maximum punishment.”
 
 “We were scouting for a suitable location for the documentary and thought the place outside Safdarjung hospital or AIIMS could be the best, as many people sleep on footpaths there. After selecting the location, we were eating paranthas in Safdarjung when Mahanto, who was heavily drunk, starting smoking and puffing smoke in out direction. When we objected, he abused us, saying, ‘You Sikhs, why come to Delhi when you can’t tolerate smoking’. He continued smoking and threatened us. We left the place, but he followed us and hit our bike in the rear with his car. Gurpreet was driving and he fell down. People took us to AIIMS, where Gurpreet succumbed to injuries.”
 
 AAP MLA from Kotkapura, Kultar Singh Sandhwan said, “I’ve already talked to Somnath Bharti, AAP MLA from the area where Gurpreet was killed, and will speak to Delhi CM Avind Kejriwal to ensure that police don’t treat the killer leniently.” Talking to TOI over phone from Delhi, SAD’s Delhi MLA Manjinder Singh Sirsa said Mahanto was earlier booked only for rash driving and was bailed out. “After we put pressure on police, he has been booked for murder and attempt to murder and has been re-arrested. We will pursue the case,” he said.
 
 
