HYDERABAD: Having taken stock of the deficiencies that hampered its chances of bagging a top 10 ranking in the Swachh Survekshan 2017, the   ( ) has now decided to plug the loopholes and improve its score in the next survey.

 In the results made public on Thursday, GHMC slipped to 22nd rank from 19th with a score of 1,605. Though municipal minister KTR and the GHMC commissioner B   announced that Hyderabad had topped among metro cities — with neighbours Bengaluru bagging 210 rank and Chennai 235 — the civic chief said they would strive hard to compete with smaller cities to ensure a better rating next year.
 
 What will it take to get Hyderabad a better billing in the next round? They have to go back to the drawing board and be brutally honest to analyse where they are lacking. GHMC authorities admitted that they lost about 150 marks in the Open Defecation Free (ODF) segment. They said they could have scored more in segments like Citizens’   and Direct Observation.
 
 “GHMC has already initiated some measures now. For instance, disposal of construction and demolition waste has been initiated by identifying alternate land. But the agencies have not yet been finalized. This particular segment carries 25 marks. Similarly, the corporation has already decided to implement the tracking of garbage vehicles using GPS and RFID technology and this is expected to begin soon. This segment carries 35 marks,” Janardhan Reddy said.
 
 Health and sanitation officials said that as Hyderabad is a densely populated spread over a vast 650 square km, the municipal corporation faced certain disadvantages like availability of public toilets and land for construction of public toilets despite efforts being made to fill the gap for the past three years by involving private firms and NGOs. 
 
 “Some cities have shown progress as they sanctioned less individual household toilets and declared ODF whereas Hyderabad sanctioned a higher number of individual toilets but could not complete 50% of it,” the commissioner said.
 
