Nagpur: Taxmen have got disclosures of a little over Rs100 crore under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) according to sources collating the data in the income-tax department. The scheme under which unaccounted cash or bank accounts can be disclosed ends on Friday. Sources say this is considered to be a commendable figure given the size of the region’s economy. The Nagpur office covers Aurangabad and Nashik apart from Vidarbha region.  The highest disclosure under PMGKY is estimated to have been received in Bangalore. The IT capital has posted a tally of Rs350 crore so far. “A disclosure of over Rs100 crore in Nagpur is being considered to be very good,” sources said. “A chunk of disclosures have come through searches and surveys conducted by the investigation wing. People have also approached the income tax department separately,” said sources.  Only cash and bank deposit can be disclosed under the scheme. Apart from paying tax at 50% on the amount, 25% of the unaccounted funds have to be kept with government for four years without interest. Rs10 crore in cash by a doctor in Aurangabad is the highest recorded at the IT office here. Next was a disclosure of Rs5 crore by a medical practitioner in Akola. “Jewellers too have made sizeable disclosures,” said sources. There has been another major chunk of disclosures of Rs12 crore from a cross section of individuals in Amravati following a series of surveys in the town. A number of cooperatives societies too are under income-tax department’s scanner. The management has been asked to come up with the depositors’ KYC details. In case the society fails to submit the details, the income will be treated as that of the society’s chairman and he will be taxed accordingly. In case of a disclosure by cooperatives’ depositor, a technical hurdle will have to be cleared to avail of the PMGKY. Under the PMGKY only cash and bank deposits in a scheduled bank can be disclosed. So the cash deposited in the cooperative societies will have to brought into a bank before declaration under PMGKY. Or else tax up to a maximum rate of 100% can be charged. Nearly half a dozen major cooperative in the region have been covered under surveys by the income tax department. Sources in business circles say there were large-scale deposits in cooperative societies soon after the note-ban. The societies quickly parked the money as fixed deposits in the cooperatives’ name. Taxmen are facing a major question of treating the unaccounted cash in banned currency seized by different enforcement agencies. Unless the money is a proceeds of crime, unusually large funds seized by police or other agencies is handed over to income tax department.  Though this is an evidence of tax evaded, the money is of no use at present. The tax dues cannot be cleared by paying the old currency. Clarifications are being sought by various field offices on this matter.