The suicide of 18-year-old engineering student Jishnu Pranoy has brought to the fore the academic stress, the burden of expectations and the fragility in the minds of Gen Z, who tend to go to the extreme of taking their lives.

 Jishnu was caught for allegedly copying in the first semester exam and berated by his professor. According to his batch mates, he was further grilled after being taken to the principal’s office. His friends describe him as ambitious, intelligent and talented. He had even brought laurels to the school at higher secondary level by presenting an innovative science project. They recall that he dreamt of establishing a start up and had even named his company, COMMOS.
 It comes as a shocker when someone who had thought so far ahead took his life at a moment’s impulse. We talk to students, educationists and psychologists to find out what makes our youngsters fragile and why they can’t handle life with all its challenges.
 Ranjith KS (name changed on request), an engineering student says that he is at a point in his life where he is convinced that he is not meant to be an engineer but does not have the heart to drop out of the course.
 
  “After my plus two, like everybody, I too joined for an engineering course. My house is in Calicut but I am studying in Trivandrum. I am unable to cope with the curriculum and have 12 papers to clear from my previous four semesters. My parents aren’t aware of it. They have taken education loan pledging our property. I am unable to discuss this with the teachers too. I don’t know what the future holds for me and often I get suicidal thoughts.” 
  The above is not an isolated case. Many students in professional colleges go through the same cycle. 
 
 
 
 Researcher and theatre personality Devendranath Shankaranarayanan says that as we live in a world where money is given precedence over a child’s interest that could be the reason for Ranjith’s suicidal thoughts.
 Educationist B S Warrier makes it clear that the problem needs to be addressed from the roots. He says that in many cases students are forced to enrol in course in which they don’t have any aptitude.
 “None of the courses in Kerala has a curriculum which is difficult for a student, with an interest in that subject to handle. The question we should ask is whether the student is really interested in studying it. So let’s stop blaming the college or the education system. Also it’s high time that we counsel our children that suicide is never a solution for problems.”
 
 Devendranath adds, “In the past, students were given freedom to choose their field of study based on their interest than what the parents wanted them to be in. After the invasion of self-financing colleges, we reached a state, where anyone can become anything, if they have the money. And everybody wants their children to be engineers, doctors and MBA graduates. Hence, it became children’s responsibility to compensate for the money their parents had invested in their education. This is where the stress starts building up.” On Jishnu suicide, Devendranath says that the expectations and demands are what could have led to him taking his life. “I would blame it all on the monetary-based education system. As long as it continues, the parents, teachers and the students will be under infinite stress.”
 
 
 
 The Gen Z kids are being more connected to the virtual world than the realistic one and the stress level increases when they encounter a real problem, says Dr Piyush Antony, Clinical Psychologist.
 “Blame it on the consumerist competitive world. We bring up children making them consider the good boy-good girl tags as the epitome of discipline. And when that image crashes children are unable to cope,” she says. 
  She asserts that creating a favourable environment for students either directly or in the virtual world is critical to reduce such incidents. “By introducing helplines and counselling sessions which are supported by Parent Teachers’ association, colleges can create a healthy ambience. Parents should always understand that while working hard to improve the intelligent quotient of a child they should also consider their emotional quotient.”
 
 
 
 Sukanya AS, an assistant professor says that unlike the earlier generation, youngsters today are brought up in such a way that they can’t handle even the simplest of real-life problems.
 She says, “Students’ upbringing plays an important part in their personality development. They are not told by parents that they will have to face problems in life and should develop the capacity to overcome it.” She also insists that teachers too need to be sensitive towards the students. 
 Educationist B S Warrier concurs the need for teaching children to handle failures. “The Gen Z is becoming more fragile as they are never taught to handle failures. We should educate them that failure is the stepping stone to success,” he says.
  Elaborating on the responsibility of teachers, Sukanya says, “Teachers have to build up such a rapport with the students that they feel free to openly discuss about any wrongdoings of theirs. Also, when you scold a student in public, you may never know if he or she is hiding the pain inside, and if it would leave a scar for life. ”
 
  It seems parents are also under immense pressure when it comes to moulding the children’s mind set. Shajna Rakesh, parent of two teenagers says, “Parenting has become pampering, these days. Those who shout at children or try to guide them are looked down upon. But we fail to realise that we need to enforce certain degree of discipline and inculcate the need for adaptability among them.”
 Before concluding she highlights, “The power to face crisis and also the logic to handle it has been missing as we tend to adopt a soft approach to parenting, which needs an overhaul.”
 
