AJMER: Despite tension between Indian and Pakistan on certain issues, the Central government is preparing to host a delegation of Pakistani devotees for the 805th yearly   of   in Ajmer. As per tentative program, the delegation will cross border on March 30 and will reach   on April 1. The yearly Urs will start in last week of March according to the sighting of moon.

  has asked its local counterpart in Ajmer to prepare for the accommodation of delegates. Number of devotees from Pakistan is about 500 which can vary. The delegation will reach New Delhi on March 30 and will come to Ajmer in a special train. The delegates will be returning on April 8.
 
 “Usually we accommodate them at government Central Girls’ School in Naya Bazaar which is near dargah,” said a source. He said local CID of the respective state government will have the responsibility of Pakistan delegation after they arrive in New Delhi till their return.
 
 Sources said there is a craze in Pakistan to participate in Urs of Sufi Saint Khwaja Moinuddin Chisty and therefore many of them have asked their local priest (khadim) here for offering prayers at dargah so that they get a visa to come to Ajmer. Pakistani devotees also do shopping in Ajmer for their relatives. An official ‘chadder’ of Pakistan government is also offered in the dargah by the delegation during Urs.
 
 Visit by delegations from Pakistan during Urs is an old tradition and 371 devotees attended Urs last year whereas the number was 421 in 2015. But the visit had to be cancelled in 2014 because of the tension between two countries on issue of killing Sabarjeet in Pakistan. Turnout of Pakistani devotees was good in 2012 as the then Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari visited Ajmer dargah.
 
 For IB department, visit of Pakistani delegation is always a problem because there have been cases in last five years when devotees left Ajmer without intimation and went to Pushkar without a visa. They also remain on their toes for the security of the delegation. 
 
 
