RAJKOT:   of highest number of people singing the national anthem simultaneously Saturday when a grand temple of the   is dedicated to the public. 

 Shree Khodaldham Trust, which is organizing the mega event, said that 3.5 lakh people will sing the national anthem at 9 am in Kagvad along side the installation ceremony.
 
 At present, the Guinness record for most people singing a national anthem simultaneously is 254,537 that was achieved by the Bangladesh’s ministry of cultural affairs at the National Parade Ground in capital Dhaka on March 26, 2014.
 
 “Saturday is the last day of the ceremony where over 20 lakh Leuva Patels are expected to turn up at Kagvad. We have made special arrangement to register the record on Saturday when 3.50 lakh people will sing the national anthem at the same time at the same place. We have set up 125 censor-based entry points to count how many people have entered the ground before the record is created,’’ said Paresh Gajera, one of the trustees.
 
 Earlier in 2012, Leuva Patels had made a Guinness record when 24,435 couples shook hands simultaneously during the ground breaking ceremony of this temple. 
 
 Meanwhile, the Khodaldham trust has urged the visitors to follow discipline follow traffic rules to ensure smooth movement of vehicles. The Trust estimates that at least 58 lakh people have already visited Kagvad in the last four days.
 
 Around 20 lakh food packets have been made for Saturday’s event as the kitchen will be closed considering the scale of the programme. Moreover, all eyes set on the address by Trust’s chairman Naresh Patel, who is credited with uniting the economically and politically strong community’s for the event.
 
 Community leaders from all walks of life will converge in Kagvad and these include former chief minister Anandiben Patel, NCP leader Praful Patel, union minister Mansukh Mandviya among others.
 
 On Friday, Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS) convener Hardik Patel visited Kagvad and offered prayers. 
 
