BHOPAL: Adventure   like climbing have witnessed an exponential growth in the state particularly in  . With this, the safety of the participants is also a matter of concern as the state is yet to specify any policy as such to regulate the affairs.

 Across  , nearly 40 adventure clubs are conducting climbing activities which has necessitated the framing of a policy for adventure sports. Such a need for a framework has been called for especially after the accident in Jaipur where a girl died after falling from six-floor building.
 
 The state climbing association has also asserted the need for policy on adventure sports.
 
 "Most of the climbing equipment are not manufactured in the country and have to be imported. However, they are easily available. It is seen that several private clubs start conducting activities hiring people who have little expertise about climbing. This is dangerous and should not happen," said Mukesh Sharma, secretary of MP Climbing Sports Association.
 
 "Climbing carries an element of danger and it should be done under professional supervision," he added.
 
 In the last two years, places like Kerwa Dam and Mahadev Pani among others have become important destinations for rock climbing.
 
 "We have a team of experts who have experience of at least 20 years in these sports. We ensure safety of the participants. A single mistake at any point of climbing can cause fatal injury and even death like Jaipur incident," said Sharma.
 
 He added that before attempting any kind of climbing, those new to the sport should practise on an artificial wall.
 
 "  has an artificial wall for such budging climbers. They can go and practise there before attempting any kind of serious climbing in hills or any other places of height," Sharma said.
 
 The incident in Jaipur has made enthusiasts wary of the dangers of the sport.
 
 "I have been taking part in adventure activities for many years but I have never seen an accident like this. I will ensure the authenticity of the club conducting such events before taking part in any activity," said Vidur Rana, a climbing enthusiast.
 
