NEW DELHI: Two days after a   carrying   from a   fell from a   on the   near   in the national capital, cops have got the vehicle examined by experts, who have suggested that a brake failure or a mechanical dysfunction could have led to the accident. The vehicle would be examined further to establish the cause. 

  Rajat Sharma, the youth driving the vehicle, had started losing control of the car and might have tried to ram it into something and bring it to a halt. Two of the girls had even tried to call their friends and inform them about it.
 
  According to family members of Ritu, one of the four who died in the accident, she had last called a friend to inform her about something, but the girl could not hear her. "We got to know that she was shouting out something to her friend, but soon the call got disconnected, midway. The next thing the friend recalls is hearing about the accident," says a relative.
 
 Police officers say all the youths had suffered injuries on their heads and spine as the vehicle had landed on its roof first which got crushed under the impact. 
 
  A probe revealed that Sharma had tried to save a group of cyclists when he took a left turn towards the footpath hoping to ram into the concrete walls beside it, instead he had over shot the wall and broke through the railings beside it. Police are questioning the locals to establish the sequence of events.
 
 The friends had been up till 4am discussing about the paper for which they had to appear on Monday . Ritu left home in a hurry drinking only half a cup of tea. "Someone had told them that the exam centre was located on the outskirts of the city and they would have to leave early to reach in time. We agreed to let her go with her friends since they had planned to travel by hired cabs, but they seemed to have changed their minds midway," said her father Makhan Lal.
 
 The family of Garima Gupta, who succumbed to her injuries on Tuesday, said she boarded the ill-fated car after repeated refusals by autorickshaws to take her to the exam centre in Narela. Her father, Karan Gupta, sells utensils at a market in Inderpuri.
 
