NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish   wrote to   on Monday , urging him to put on hold the “process of recruitment“ for a panel of lawyers for which an advertisement was issued by the services department on September 14.Expressing shock, Sisodia, also the minister incharge of services, said the services department did not show him the file before releasing the advertisement for the posts of standing counsels and additional standing counsels. Pointing out that the law department had opposed the proposal, the deputy CM asserted that the process suffered from “serious legal infirmities“.

 The LG's office, however, said that it didn't see anything wrong in what the services department was doing.“Services is a reserved subject and, therefore, the department is entitled to have its own panel of lawyers,“ a source in the LG's office said.
 
 Officials pointed out that even the land and building department of Delhi government had its own panel. “Like services, land is also a reserved subject under central jurisdiction and is monitored through the LG's office,“ an official said.
 
 In the note sent to Baijal's office, Sisodia said, “Delhi government already has a set of standing counsels, additional standing counsels and a panel of advocates.Their appointments were done by the LG after an elaborate process of advertisement, interviews and selection.These advocates cater to the needs of all Delhi government departments. Then why does the services department need a separate set of advocates?“ He added, “It is all the more shocking because I am the minister (in-charge) of services and have been completely kept in the dark. Hence, I cal led for the file. The officers, however, refused, saying that the LG has directed them not to show it to the minister incharge or the chief minister.Is there anything secret about this file? I request you to kindly direct the officers to show me the file,“ the deputy chief minister stated.
 
 The law department, in its note, had cited the rules to say , “The proposal of the services department is not in consonance with the aforesaid statutory position. Therefore, the services department may be informed to reconsider their proposal in the light of the above factual and statutory position.“ Referring to this note, Sisodia has urged   “to kindly put the recruitment process on hold till I have seen the file and given my opinion“.
 
