AHMEDABAD: The Union   has notified new rules for admissions to undergraduate and postgraduate  . New rules stipulate that admissions to all medical institutes across India be conducted through common counselling by state governments. The rules, to be implemented from the 2017-18 academic year, will impact over 250   in the country. 

 The Regulations on Graduate Medical Education (First Amendment), 2017, states that admissions under the 15% All-India quota will continue to be governed by the director general of health services (DGHS) of the health ministry. The notification — issued on March 9, 2017 — says that counselling for admissions to MBBS courses in all medical institutions shall be conducted by state government or the administration of Union territories. The rules apply to institutes established by the central government, state governments, universities, deemed universities, trusts, societies, minority institutions, corporations, and even companies. 
 
 The Medical Council of India had recommended these amendments — in November 2016 — calling for common counselling for all medical institutions, on the basis of the merit list of the National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET). The MCI and the health ministry will shortly intimate medical institutions and state governments about the new rules. 
 
 The rules mandate common counselling for PG courses as well. The Postgraduate Medical Education (Amendment) Regulation, 2016, says that admission to all postgraduate courses (diploma/MD/MS/DM/MCh) in all medical institutes in India will be conducted through common counselling, under the overall control of the state governments.
 
 Sources said that deemed universities and private colleges have been conducting their own admissions for UG and PG medical courses. Highly placed sources said that the new rules will end malpractices of some private colleges and deemed universities which charge hefty capitation fees and bend rules to accommodate students with low merit. In fact, some institutions also went to the extent of charging “money for marks”.
 
