KOLHAPUR: The association of petrol pump operators has cancelled its decision to shut all the 273 petrol pumps in the district, including 27 pumps within the city, after oil companies have called for a discussion over their demands next week. 

 The petrol pump operators have demanded implementation of   recommendations related to the commission given by oil companies to the operators. On May 10, the operators had stopped purchase of petrol and diesel for one day as a token strike against the apathy of the oil companies.
 
 The recommendations of Apurva Chandra committee includes fixing the stock loss on petrol at 0.75 per cent, charging for   and toilet facilities at fuel pumps, fixing dealer margin on the product price and reviewing the commission every six months. The ministry of petroleum accepting the recommendations had asked the oil firms to begin its implementation.
 
 Gajkumar Mangave, president of  , said, "After discussion with oil companies, the owners of over 4,000 pumps from the state have decided to withdraw their decision to stop selling fuel. One shift sale which was slated to start from Monday has also been cancelled till May 17, the day on which the oil companies have called for the meeting. Our demands are long pending and if they are not met by the day of the meeting we will again call for one shift sale and holidays on Sundays."
 
 The district administration had asked petrol pump owners to follow the rules mentioned in Maharashtra Essential Services and Maintenance (MESMA) Act. Petrol and diesel are given the status of essential commodities and the shortage of which may invite action against the providers.
 
 Vivek Agavane, district supply officer (DSO), said, "In a meeting held with oil companies and representatives of the petrol pump owners associations, we have given clear directions that citizens should not face problems due to shutting down of fuel stations. Also, we have asked them to keep at least 10% of the fuel reserve in the pump storage so as to avoid complete shortage. We have made a public appeal stating the citizens must approach the local tehsil office office or DSO in case they find complete drying up of pumps and shutting of the pumps for more than 24 hours."
 
