Nagpur: After an outcry by students and several colleges over lack of vacancies, Nagpur University has released the data for admissions to non-professional undergraduate courses, which tells a very different story. The data shows there were vacancies, even in the most sought after colleges, but almost no takers for numerous low profile colleges, which may have led to protests. These protests are no longer relevant though, with all students having taken admissions in the spot admission later, and all prestigious colleges completing their full intake. Last month, NU had introduced common admission schedule for UG courses like BSc, BCom, BA, BCCA etc at all affiliated colleges and asked them to admit students as per merit list only. The university had chalked out the entire schedule, right from sale of forms to registration and display of merit list to spot admissions against vacant seats. NU had also made it clear that all admissions done outside its schedule would be illegal. However, students, backed by political parties, and colleges had slammed NU's decision, claiming it disrupted the entire admission process followed over the years and affecting students adversely. Recently, NU released its data collected from colleges on June 29. At that time, over 19,000 students had been admitted to non-professional courses by 100 affiliated colleges, and another 20,000 seats were vacant for the current academic year. In 67 rural colleges, not a single admission has been done, with all 8,234 seats vacant. Popular colleges like Shivaji Science, Mohta Science, LAD, Vasantrao Naik Institute of Social Sciences and Arts, Hislop, SFS, Ambedkar, Dhanwate, Sindhu, Kamala Nehru etc, where admission demand is always high, too had vacant seats. Though NU had asked colleges to submit the data on June 29, it released the figures only on July 23, raising many questions. Both, vice chancellor SP Kane and ProVC Pramod Yeole did not answer TOI’s calls. In the light of the figures on seat vacancies, TOI spoke to a couple of principals regarding the hue and cry. Some of them still held NU guilty of not doing enough to check loopholes, while others hailed the decision. Principal of Mohta Science College Sanjay Charalwar said, “I am happy with the decision. Now the demand to increase 20% seats in the intake should be fulfilled, so that students who are unable to get admissions in good colleges are not left disappointed.” Charalwar said, “Colleges where seats remain vacant must introspect. These are the colleges where there is no infrastructure and no faculty.” Another principal said there were several loopholes, right from start of registrations on June 17. “NU should have made it compulsory to put the merit and wait list on college and its websites. Besides this, good colleges and good students are at a loss, since they won’t be able to take admission if they fail to register,” the principal said. Dhanwate National College principal Baban Taywade questioned NU’s move to release the data now. “What is the university’s intention in displaying the data now? Does it want to instigate fights between parents and colleges? Why didn’t it release the data on June 30 itself?” He said, “We don’t have any problem with any scheme imposed by the university but it must do it with proper planning. It should have announced the schedule at least 10 days before the HSC results.”