(By S Vaidhyasubramaniam)

 When the global fi nancial crisis swept the world like a tsunami,   dispatch of July 2009 wrote: “Of all the economic bubbles that have been pricked, few have burst more spectacularly than the reputation of economics itself.“
 
 The dismal science of economics used by game theorists and option modellers to reduce abstract human behaviour to exact science was blamed for causing trans-geographical damages. Many felt that the arrogance of the profession was humbled by its own irrelevance. Whether the subject of economics has undergone change in the way in which it is pursued now is not certain. That it slowed in front of a speed-breaker to calibrate itself is certain and the bumpy economic ride still continues. Extending this to the case of professional college admissions, the present case of NEET for medical and the prospective case of JEE (Main) for engineering admissions seem to prick the merit bubble spectacularly.
 
 The multiplicity of exams conducted by central government agencies, deemed universities and state governments causes mayhem to the May calendar for students. Multiple exams mean mental and physical stress, financial burden, diverse exam patterns, conflicting schedules and peer pressure among other issues. The strangled student mind needs to be oxygenated through a systemic policy reform. Before find ing solutions, a peep into the entrance exam maze is necessary.
 
 The ratio between the available number of seats and application forms sold is used as a barometer for an institution's quality . Global ranking agencies use this because the single entrance test for foreign universities have been SAT, GRE, TOEFL, GMAT, etc -all of which are standard and uniform for the global student community . The engine for such exams is well-oiled and transparently administered with results being declared to the satisfaction of every aspirant. With scores in these exams, an applicant approaches a set of universities and it's the application to seat ratio that global ranking agencies are concerned about. The ratio of applica tion sales to freshman enrolment in reputed universities in USA is an interesting statistic. The Stanford University office received 43,997 applications for 2016, resulting in the enrolment to application ratio of 1:4.8. The   for its flagship MBA programme boasts of an impressive 1:11 while the  's freshman batch of 2016 had 1,511 students chosen from a pool of 19,020 applications with a competitive yield of 7.8%.
 
 In India, the scene is different.While the CBSE-administered JEE attracts the largest pool of students for admission to IITs, CFTIs and progressive private institutions who voluntarily use the JEE scores, there are private institutions that also conduct their own entrance exams. The question whether separate exams is necessary may appear to be interventional but to use the application form sales to student enrolment as a barometer for quality is certainly an issue.
 
 Before the sound of Diwali fireworks dies down, ads for next year admissions through JEE, CAT, GATE and for some private deemed universities start appearing. These ads have application deadlines, and thanks to the systemic flaw, such ads by many institutions also have the propensity to convert such deadlines to revenue lifelines. It is the absence of this flaw that differentiates the American system from ours. In the case of universities like   or Stanford or MIT, the knowledge of SAT, GRE or GMAT score is essential before spending an average of $200 application fee on them. A student with a low GMAT score will not spend on applying to Harvard   due to diminutive admission prospects. Though the scale and volume at which national tests like JEE, CAT, etc operate necessitates an early start, the absence of a national testing facility gives room for many private institutions to start the application sales campaign well in advance with an inherent compulsive factor that is driven by unreasonable application deadlines. The question is, is there a solution to this multiplicity of entrance exams that also distorts ranking metric?
 
 (The author is the dean of  )
 
