LUCKNOW: Credit for the BJP’s big UP victory largely goes to late VHP trustee Moropant Pingle and former general secretary late Ashok Singhal. The formula of consolidating Other Backward Castes with Hindus that helped BJP ride the ‘Ramwave’ and form its first government with a majority in 1991 was originally conceived by Pingle and Singhal in the early 1980.

 Rajasthan governor Kalyan Singh belongs to backward caste and in 1991, he led his Lodh community to vote for the party en masse and went on to become CM of Uttar Pradesh in 1991 after the party won 221 seats.
 
 On February 19, 1981, when 800 Dalits (300 families) were converted to Islam by Ishaatul Islam Sabha in a ceremony at Meenakshipuram village in Tamil Nadu, several NGOs, industrialists and Hindu society members held a meeting in order to stop such conversions. They realised that Dalits in the TN village were treated as untouchables and were not allowed access by upper castes to temples and wells.
 
 “Moropant Pingle and Ashok Singhal decided to hold a Virat Hindu Sammelan,” recalled Prabhat Kumar Awasthi, who was then the all-India treasurer of Vivekanand Shila Smarak. Awasthi had surveyed all the villages where religious conversion took place.
 
 Senior Congress leader Dr Karan Singh was first president of Virat Hindu Sammelan, formed to bring Hindus across all castes under one umbrella. “This was followed by Ekatamata Yatra in 1983. The first of the yatras was taken out from Haridwar till Ganga Sagar in West Bengal,” said Awasthi, adding that all yatras assembled at Ram Tek in Maharashtra, which also became the focal point of the Ram temple movement.
 
 The ekatamata yatras received a grand welcome in backward and Dalit dominated regions. Due to his excellent organisational skills, Moropant was given the responsibility of planning, co-ordinating and executing the yatra, for which he traveled extensively across the country. His effective selection of routes to be taken by the Ekatmata Raths (chariots), magnified the impact of the yatra.
 
 It was followed by the ‘Ram-Janki’ Rath Yatra in 1984 and was a precursor to the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. The aim was to reunite Hindus and kindle community pride. Seven yatras traveled through Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, where Rama was shown behind bars depicting his state inside the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Moropant was appointed convener and controller of this yatra. In 1986, a Faizabad court ordered unlocking of the temple.
 
 Since then, the Hindu Virat Sammelans became a regular feature of the   and its off-shoots. Before Kalyan Singh, LK Advani used the formula by launching a rath yatra that led to the rise of the BJP from two MPs in the Lok Sabha to 88 MPs.
 
 After Advani, Kalyan was the first to implement the formula successfully. It was, however, abandoned for the past 15 years before Amit Shah and Narendra Modi met Kalyan Singh and took tips on the formula before implementing it in the Lok Sabha election 2014 and then again in the Vidhan Sabha election 2017.
 
 
