CHENNAI: In spite of the acute shortage of specialists like cardiac surgeons and oncologists, several super-specialty seats across the country , including nearly 100 in state-run colleges of Tamil Nadu, will remain vacant in 2017, with the   declining to further extend the September 14 deadline for admission.

 This would mean the country may find it challenging to tackle the increasing demand for such specialists amid the increasing incidence of heart diseases, cancers and strokes. The crores of rupees spent by governments and private colleges on each super specialty course may also go waste.
 
 In TN, only eight of the 22 state-run colleges have super specialty courses.
 
  Now, there are 99 seats vacant -53 in Madras Medical College, 14 in Kilpauk Medical College, 11in Stanley Medical College, nine in  , five in Thanjavur Medical College, six in   and one in Chengalpet Medical College.
 
  “We have lost 15 seats each in cardiothoracic surgery and plastic surgery seats, a dozen seats each in paediatric surgery and neurology besides other seats,“ said state selection committee secretary  . 
 
 On Friday , a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India Deepak Misra rejected the petitions seeking a further extension of the deadline for admission.The deadline had already been extended for 10 days from September 4.
 
  Another extension at this juncture would not be appropriate, it said. “Weighing both the concepts in a balanced manner, we unhesitatingly come to the conclusion that the prayers made in the interlocutory applications do not deserve any acceptance and, accordingly , they stand rejected,“ the bench concluded. In 2017, as per instructions from the Medical Council from the  , admission to all super specialty courses ­ done after post-graduation across the country was conducted by the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) in New Delhi. 
 
 There are 1,011 superspecialty seats in the country . As per the original plan, the counselling process which began on August 9 was scheduled to be completed by August 29.
 
 However, DGHS officials say the schedule was thrown out of gear as the process was stayed at least by two high courts. Since the seats could not be filled even after the second extension, several colleges moved the court once again. While the court appreciated the concern, perception, and argument of senior counsel seeking an extension of time, it rejected the applications as it felt that sense of concern was one thing “but sustenance of discipline and order is another aspect.“
 
  Senior academicians say that superspeciality courses are too precious to be left vacant. “Not all medical colleges have these courses. It is permitted only if colleges have an adequate number of patients, teaching faculty and the required infrastructure such as diagnostic equipment and theatres.Hopefully , this problem will be solved next year,“ said Dr   , former vice chancellor of Sri Ramachandra University .
 
