Kolkata: Actor   presented himself to cops for being questioned on Tuesday evening, 10 days after the Rashbehari Avenue car crash that resulted in model Sonika Singh Chauhan’s death.

 Vikram went straight to the   in a chauffeur-driven car from the sets of popular Bengali serial ‘Ichchhe Nodi’, for which he started shooting on Monday. The actor started with shooting a hospital scene after spending five days in hospital in real life, recuperating from the injuries he suffered in the crash. 
 
 “On the first day,   shot one scene. Usually, it takes four hours to shoot a scene. But Vikram was extremely traumatized and he took six hours. He had difficulty in concentrating and problems with dialogue delivery. He didn’t want to face anyone and wanted a separate make-up room. I hope he doesn’t end up doing anything amiss, given that he is so traumatized,” said  , creative director and scriptwriter of ‘Ichchhe Nodi’. 
 
 Officers said Tuesday evening’s was only the first round of   and could be followed by several more calls to the police station. “Vikram was not being put through any excessive grilling,” an officer said late on Tuesday, even as his colleagues continued questioning the actor. “In the first round, we wanted to know the sequence of events of that Friday night-Saturday morning (April 28-April 29).” The officer added his statements would be recorded on two crucial points: the precise reason that led to the accident and why he was discharged from hospital before being readmitted on the fateful night. 
 
 His colleagues said Vikram’s words would be played against 18 others’ statements recorded under Section 161 of Criminal Procedure Code. “We are proceeding carefully as Vikram’s moves, after the crash, seem very legally tutored,” the officer said.
 
 A week after the collision, Vikram surrendered to a city court on Friday (May 5), a move described by legal experts as “strategic” to insulate himself from arrest on harsher charges later. So far, cops have registered an FIR under bailable sections, rash and negligent driving being one of them. “Based on the mechanical test of the white sedan being involved and images of the CCTV cameras in the area, we have come up with certain possibilities. A fresh mechanical test was conducted on Tuesday. Vikram’s statements will help us plug all the loopholes,” said a source.
 
 Vikram’s testimony comes at a crucial juncture, given six persons have already testified to the police that he consumed alcohol on the fateful night, though the actor denied it. Apparently making things difficult for him, when the police on Tuesday reached out to five of the duo’s friends, asking them if they wanted to add anything to their statements recorded a day earlier, all the five said they were even willing to narrate the events before a judicial magistrate. 
 
 The police have already recorded the statements of 18 witnesses, who either met or partied with Vikram and Sonika on the fateful night. 
 
 “Besides the common friends, actor Anindya Chatterjee was questioned for the third time on Tuesday. The police have also recorded the words of the bartenders at three different clubs and two residents of Rashbehari Avenue, who were among the first to rescue Vikram and Sonika after the crash,” the police said. Anindya, cops added, had admitted to seeing Vikram drinking at least “two to three pegs of vodka”, though the actors’ lawyer Rajdeep Majumdar maintained the hospital reports did not indicate he was intoxicated while driving. 
 
 The police, who already have around two dozen video clips collected from the pubs the two visited and CCTV cameras on roads, said the suggestion that Vikram had to swerve away to save another car coming on, was yet to be backed by evidence.
 
