CHENNAI: Indians spent 2.5 hours a day on apps in the first three months of 2017, higher than the 2 hours they spent during the same period in 2016. India also ranked ahead of the US, UK, Germany and France where users spent 1.5-2 hours per day on apps.

 A report by data analytics company App Annie reveals that time spent in apps globally increased to nearly one trillion hours in 2016 with an average usage of 9 apps per day. Brazil, China and India led with over 10 apps used every day. During the first three months of 2017, the average Indian smartphone user had almost 80 apps installed on   and used over 40 apps in a month.
 
 "Consumers have spoken. By and large, they prefer to manage their lives through apps. For many industries, apps are increasingly becoming a must-have," the report said.
 
 An interesting observation is that over 80% of time spent in apps was spent outside of the top app. "While this represents a considerable amount of user time, it is far less than some might assume. There is plenty of user time to go around that is not dominated by major apps such as FB, WhatsApp," the report said. 
 
 2016 saw the advent of   with players in several sectors including education, fin tech, insurance and health dabbling with bots. While industry insiders touted bots to be the next stage of transformation, it is yet to gain traction in India. "They are still limited to niche use in urban India and are still meant only for the tech savvy consumer conversant in English," said  , head of marketing, Hasura, a startup that offers an app development platform.
 
 "On the other hand, apps are becoming more mainstream. As telecom and   increases, and smartphones become cheaper, a new section of the population is getting connected to the internet. And as several essential functions such as operating a bank account (or even  ) are much better done through an app, their introduction to the internet necessarily involve apps," he said. 
 
 Experts say apps will continue to grab the larger share of user's time while bots will be useful only for specific processes.
 
