Mukesh Patel, President Of Indo-Japan Friendship Association, Talks Of Vibrant Relationship

 Q. You have been witness to the growth of bilateral relations between   and   for over 45 years. How do you feel today on the occasion of the summit meeting between Prime Minister   and Japan premier Shinzo Abe in Gujarat?
 A. When our association was founded in the early 1970s, I recall that was a time when Ahmedabad had to wait for almost a year to see two Japanese faces living in Ahmedabad (they were Japanese students who had come under the Gujarat University Exchange Programme). Even in the 1990s, if someone asked me the names of half-a-dozen Japanese residents in town, I would have found it a tough question to answer.
 
 Today nearly 150 Japanese nationals live in the city, which has led to the active formation of a Japanese association. The number of Japanese language learners at the   run by Ahmedabad Management Association in the past five years has crossed the 500 mark.
 
 The number of Japanese companies operating in Gujarat is currently around 80. With many more coming to Gujarat as the state is their most preferred   destination, the number of Japanese firms is expected to double very soon. Over the next 3 years, the current Japanese investment of US$ 1 billion is most likely to triple to US$ 3 billion.
 
 Q. At the last summit meeting between the two PMs in November 2016, the state of Gujarat and the prefecture of Hyogo entered into a `sister states' relationship. How is the relationship progress ing?
 
 A. The signing of this momentous relationship between the two states has been possible thanks to the dynamic efforts of the Indian ambassador to Japan Sujan Chinoy . The relationship aims to promote mutual cooperation in the fields of academics, business, culture, disaster man agement and environmental protection.
 
 I had the good fortune to lead an 11-member Goodwill Delegation from Gujarat to Hyogo in April 2017 when Hyogo governor Toshizo Ido and his team accorded us a very warm and cordial welcome. They are planning to reciprocate with the visit of a 45-member strong visit of a 45-member strong business and cultural delega tion to Gujarat in October November 2017. The strength of SMEs of both Hyogo and Gujarat can prove to be a great `winwin' for mutual economic cooperation.
 
 Q. How do you foresee the future potential and roadmap for Gujarat-Japan relations?
 
 A. I am reminded of the prophetic words of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during his visit to Japan in 2012 as chief minister of Gujarat. “Japan has experience, Gujarat has entrepreneurship. Japan has technology , Gujarat has youth power. Japan is insistent on discipline and values, Gujarat has the zeal for perfection. Together Gujarat and Japan can create a Great Future! I want to see a mini-Japan in Gujarat!“ Going by the current trend, Modi's vision of `mini-Japan in Gujarat' does not appear to be a distant dream.
 
 (Mukesh Patel is recipient of the 2017 `Order of the Rising Sun' from the Emperor of Japan)
 
