INDORE: The speakers of   will be given the ‘guard of honour’ and a group of   will accord them a warm welcome to mark the opening ceremony of a two-day summit on February 18.

 Speakers from India, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal, Maldives, Sri Lanka and Myanmar will come to hold a discussion over the democratic and parliamentary setup in different countries along with some other relevant issues.
 
 However, there was also word of Pakistan’s participation in the event.
 
 “Lok sabha speaker and member of parliament   will hold a meeting on February 15 to share the latest updates including Pakistan’s participation in the meet,” said Indore MP representative Ram Mundada.
 
 The speakers and other delegates will stay and hold meetings in Hotel Radisson Blu.
 
 Lok sabha secretariat additional secretary Atul Kaushik and joint secretary PC Koul on Saturday held a meeting with officials of the local administration, health department, city police and traffic department, archeology and other concerned departments to learn about preparations being made ahead of the summit.
 
 “There should be proper cleaning and safety arrangements to create a good image of Indore and India for the delegates,” divisional commissioner, Sanjay Dubey told officials concerned.
 
 Senior officials from Delhi discussed arrival and departure schedules of delegates and issued instructions to finalise preparations for the delegates’ visits to Martand Mandir in Rajwada and Lalbagh Palace.
 
 During their visit to Mandu, the delegates will be given softcopies (CDs) with information about MP tourism and the archeological importance of the fortress town. Four bilingual guides will accompany them.
 
 The local health authority has been given assignments to keep the nearby Bombay Hospital and Medanta Hospital on alert. Besides, two beds will be kept reserved in MY Hospital in case of any emergencies.
 
 “An advanced life support ambulance will be kept on standby at the hotel the delegates will be lodging at. Another ambulance will be available at both venues where the event will be held as well as all the place the delegates will visit,” said district civil surgeon, Dr Dilip Acharya.
 
 Instructions have been given to reserve a room in the hotel for a team of doctors and supporting staff who will remain on duty in shifts.
 
 Traffic DSP, Pradeep Singh Chouhan was asked to make a rehearsal to ensure safety and other arrangement to ferry delegates from the hotel to the meeting and other venues. “We will carry out a rehearsal on February 17,” said Chouhan.
 
 Arrangements have been made to hold a cultural programme at Brilliant Convention Centre on February 18 while a dinner will be hosted by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan at The Grand Bhagwati (TGB) on February 19.
 
 MP Vidhan sabha speaker Sitasharan Sharma will host a lunch while Mahajan will host a dinner for delegates on February 18.
 
