 Governor C Vidyasagar Rao on Monday told students of Xavier Institute of Communications (Mumbai) the government was always welcome to suggestions from people. They had expressed concern, when they met him at Raj Bhavan, over the condition of  , non-availability of water in certain areas, lack of infrastructure in rural areas and lack of housing, leading to people living on roads and poor sanitation in the country. He expressed delight at meeting the Communication for Development students, who were led by their course head and senior journalist, Abhay Mokashi.

 He told them that as Chancellor of 20 universities each in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, he has had the opportunity of meeting students of various universities and attending convocations, but he was happy to meet the Communication for Development students, as they had chosen to join a course which caters to needs of various sections of society, rather than going in for courses which carry glamour.
 
 He told the students to express their views on developmental issues and the situation in society, as they see them. The   said he was pleased to see that them were aware and concerned about the issues and assured them that the country had enough money to take care of them and with right decisions and policies, the problems could be solved.
 
 He appealed to the C4D students to make suggestions to the government on how problems they stated could be resolved. He appreciated the efforts of the government towards development and mentioned that the Prime Minister’s initiative of Swachh Bharat Mission peeped into minds of people, though it will take time for overall implementation. An example of indication would be the witnessing that villages have headed towards zero open defecation. “With our commitment and dedication we can do it,” he said.
 
 The governor also mentioned his special responsibility as Governor of Maharashtra under Article 371(2) as well as the Fifth Schedule of the Indian Constitution. He said the Fifth Schedule had been perfectly exercised, through which policies have reached the lowest strata of citizens. He said that through this, tribals could be empowered. 
 
 He concluded by saying, “Let us try to bring positive change in society.”
 
 
