HYDERABAD: Universities are engines of innovation, said Satheesh Reddy , scientific advisor to   and director general,  , at 19th convocation ceremony of the University of Hyderabad (UoH) on Sunday . He said academicians, research centres and industry must work together for the development of the country. In his convocation address, Reddy urged students to take up research in niche areas such as atomic, defence and space sectors. “Basic research for advanced technologies must come from academic institutions. Graduating students have to come up with innovative ideas to be suppliers to the country and to the world. Despite achievements, India is still one of the largest importers. We can only survive and compete with the world, when ideas and products are exported from our country," said Reddy .

 As many as 105 meritorious students received gold medals for exemplary performances in their fields. Five faculty members of the university too were recognised for meritorious teaching and research with the chancellor's award.
 
 Presenting the university report, Appa Rao Podile, UoH vice-chancellor said, “This year 1,421 students are graduating and of these 229 are PhDs.This brings the total number of PhDs produced at the UoH to 2,485, and the number of graduating students since the time of its inception to 26,885.“
 
 He added that the university is first in the country to have set-up an e-learning centre wherein faculty members are actively engaged in developing online resources as part of the Swayam initiative undertaken by the  . “In addition, our university was the first to complete one full cycle of faculty recruitment and promotions since last convocation in accordance with the amen ded rules and regulations. We now have 193 professors, 71 associate professors and 138 assistant professors in 12 different schools,“ said Podile.
 
 While the university has one megawatt solar power plant, it is in the process of setting up another five megawatt solar power plant, he said.Apart from this, the university has also introduced masters programmes in  ,  , English Language Studies and Neural & Cognitive Science this year, said Podile.
 
