PANAJI: The historic   dating to the pre-Portuguese era has received an expensive and time-consuming makeover, but opening it to the public may have to wait for a while longer, till a museum is set up.

 The iconic building, which previously housed the state legislative assembly and the seat of the government, was shut for 16 years. Citizens and heritage lovers are not happy about the long delays and lack of a plan to utilize the heritage asset for cultural purposes after the buzz of activity shifted to the Goa Vidhan Sabha building and new Secretariat in Porvorim.
 
 Opened briefly for the Serendipity Arts Festival held recently, it had become a major visitor attraction. 
 
 Heritage promoter Sanjeev Sardesai expressed disappointment at the decade-long restoration process and said it does not live up to the final result. “Either the Goa state infrastructure development corporation (GSIDC) is incapable of the works it is entrusted with, or the contractors may have deliberately delayed works, for reasons better known to them,” he said.
 
 The government had handed over Old Secretariat building, as it is also known, to the department of art and culture in 2006. The department signed a MoU with GSIDC to initiate renovation works for the building that has survived ravages of time and intermittent neglect. 
 
 The long-drawn restoration was completed in 2012, but department officials said that the lack of an expert museologist in Goa has hindered plans of setting up a centre of art and culture at the premises. 
 
 “The   Palace is yet to be handed to us. GSIDC has to first set up a museum on the premises. They had floated a tender earlier, but the process is currently delayed due to election code of conduct,” said director, department of art and culture, Prasad Lolayekar.
 
 After this phase is completed, the department will be able to formulate a plan for the future. Says architect  , “GSIDC has done a good job with the palace. The plans were charted out years ago and it’s about time that they materialize. A building like this shouldn’t be locked up.” 
 
 The original summer palace has undergone many changes in its architectural features over the era traversing the   reign to the Portuguese rule. It saw much adaptive reuse by Portuguese after they shifted their capital from Old Goa in 1843, says Sardesai. “Its original facets and Portuguese-incorporated ones in the initial stages must be highlighted and decorative acts of present day decorators are not needed for this historic building,” he added.
 
 Agreeing,   stated that a proper conservation architect should have been appointed for the restoration work. “The walls should have been ideally drained of salinity before plastering. The metal items on display at the palace are now vulnerable. Also, iron nails that have been used for the woodwork will soon rust,” he said.
 
 GSIDC official Dilip Joshi, who overlooked the restoration works, said, “Maintenance works have to be repeatedly done to keep the uniqueness of this place intact. This will have to be looked after by the department of art and culture.”
 
 The palace is currently open till January-end for the ongoing exhibition of the Serendipity Arts Festival.
 
