PUNE: The search for a new vice-chancellor for   (SPPU) has moved into a decisive phase after the selection panel headed by eminent scientist Anil Kakodkar forwarded the names of five shortlisted candidates to Governor C Vidyasagar Rao, who is also the chancellor of the state universities.

 Rao, who will interact with each of the five candidates on Tuesday, is expected to announce the key appointment thereafter. The incumbent vice-chancellor Wasudeo Gade’s term will get over on Monday. The new vice-chancellor will hold office for five years, or till he or she turns 65 years old, whichever is earlier.
 
 Those shortlisted include N R Karmalkar, Anjali Kshirsagar and Bhushan Patwardhan, who head the departments of environmental science, physics and the interdisciplinary school of health sciences, respectively, at the SPPU. A B Pandit, a professor and dean of students’ affairs and human resource development at the   in Mumbai, and Suhas Pednekar, principal of Ramnarain Ruia College of Arts and Science in Mumbai, are the other two.
 
 According to sources, Patwardhan is also among the candidates who have been shortlisted for the post of chairman of   (UGC) for which the selection process is underway. He is the only candidate from Pune.
 
 The five candidates for Pune university’s VC’s post were selected from among 32 others interviewed by the Kakodkar panel over two days last week.
 
 Karmalkar has expertise in geology, geochemistry, and volcanology and has published several research papers in these fields. Kshirsagar, the only woman candidate among the select five, is a physicist and her specialization is in computational condensed matter. 
 
 Patwardhan has almost three decades of experience in university education, research and innovation and is a renowned scientist in ayurveda and traditional medicine. He has to his credit several research papers published in national and international journals of repute. Patwardhan is also director of   at the SPPU.
 
 When contacted, Gade said, “The university has achieved a lot in the last few years with several affiliations, collaborations. It also figures among the top-most state universities of the country. The institution needs a leader who will take this forward and to newer heights considering that the system is democratic and participatory with several other stakeholders involved in decision making.”
 
 Gade said that in the recent national rankings, the university had a poor score when it came to public perception. “The new VC could probably see what are the shortcomings and study where is the real problem and correct it so that the varsity moves higher in the order,” he said.
 
 Mashelkar, speaking to TOI from Australia over phone, said, “With changing times, Pune university now needs a charismatic leader who will bring people around him together in a cordial manner and at the same time he should also be an accomplished scholar so the students and subordinates look up to him.”
 
 Former UGC chairman Arun Nigavekar said, “The challenges for SPPU vice-chancellor now in 21st century are different from those when it was set up. There has been a big difference in terms of the education system which has become more modern. The university caters to three districts Nashik, Ahmednagar and Pune where 70% of colleges are in rural, semi-rural and semi-urban areas. The students studying in these places are also looking for a change. Considering the shortlisted names, it will be a tough call for the governor.”
 
