TRICHY: The   is fast turning out to be a crowd puller and an ideal picnic spot replacing Mukkombu, another tourist attraction on the outskirts of the city. Over 4,000 visitors flocked to the park on the occasion of   on Monday, up from the usual footfall of 1,500 during weekends. 

 The facility which was built at a cost of Rs 8.67 crore across 25 hectares of lush green land was thrown open to public at the end of 2015. The park boasts of a Nakshatra Vanam containing trees that are related to the zodiac signs and stars of Indian astrology.
 
 Kaanum Pongal, the last day of the Pongal festival, is celebrated by spending leisure time outdoors. As expected, people dressed up in new clothes, started trooping in along with their family members right from early morning. Forest department officials said that 869 children were among the 4,094 people who turned up on Monday at the park. “This is indeed a big number compared to the 500 on week days and 1,500 on weekends,” said a forest official. 
 
 Making his first visit to the park, R Chandrasekaran, 45, from  , said it reminded them of the parks in Bengaluru which were well-maintained. “Though Mukkombu dam is our usual destination every year, we preferred butterfly park this time as there is no water in Cauvery which has taken a toll on the dam,” said Chandasekaran who is into real-estate business.
 
 Accompanied by family members,  , 57, from Thiruvanaikaval said that while butterflies were found less in numbers, there was a need to ensure that the upcoming facility for an indoor conservatory at the park was completed on time. 
 
 There are 39 species of butterflies in the park at present which breed in the lush green environment. Besides, an indoor conservatory for the breeding of non-scheduled butterflies is being built which would further increase butterfly population and attract more visitors. The indoor conservatories will be having air conditioners and green houses for the butterflies to reproduce in a suitable manner. 
 
  said that over 80 per cent of the work on the indoor conservatory had been completed and it would be thrown open soon facilitating breeding of butterflies in the park. 
 
