BENGALURU: An online fundraising campaign raised over Australian $1.19 lakh (about Rs 61 lakh) for the treatment of IT professional  , the Mysurean who was among those critically injured in a   in Melbourne. A man “intentionally“ hit pedestrians with his car and killed five people last week.

 Nethra, who was returning to office after breastfeeding her eight-month-old baby at a daycare centre at the time of the accident last Friday, sustained serious injuries, which left her with a punctured lung, damaged liver and kidneys, broken ribs and a spine fractured in three places, besides deep lacerations on her head.
 
 The fundraising campaign was started by a family friend, Tanvir Chowdhury, who wrote: “She is presently in Intensive Care, in a critical but stable condition. Given the severity of her injuries, Nethra will remain in hospital for quite some time, and following this will have a long road to recovery, both physically and psychologically. Please help us to raise funds for this mum and her young family, during this unfathomably difficult time.“
 
 Although the goal set was $100,000, by end of Tuesday, around $119,459 was raised from 2,237 donations.
 
 Nethra, who works as an integration developer in Mexia Consulting, did her schooling in Kalaburagi and pursued her graduation from the  , Mysuru.
 
 Nethra, who was rushed to the ICU of Alfred Hospital im mediately after the accident, showed signs of recovery on Monday, as was able to talk and drink fluids.
 
 Her MRI report showed no spinal nerve injury , which was found to be promising. She is due for plastic surgery to treat scalp lacerations.
 
 On Monday , Mohan Kumar, Nethra's husband, had written an emotional post on his   thanking “everyone for their love, care and support during these hardest times“.
 
 “Our lives have been changed forever,“ he had said, explaining what had happened: “Yes, I was with her when this happened. I was lucky to miss the impact but unlucky enough to witness the massacre first hand.The impact resulted in multiple injuries... She has been very strong throughout the treatment... ... It's a very long road to recovery but now I am hopeful...“
 
