NEW DELHI:   on Monday came out in defence of her beleaguered husband, chief minister  , by taking on the sacked minister,  , who has been making corruption allegations against him and his party colleagues. Sunita, who is usually reticent, accused Mishra of betrayal and making false allegations: “Law of Nature never errs. Seeds of vishwasghat, jhoote aarop sown, so shall he@KapilMishraAAP reap. Inevitable”.

 Mishra responded quickly. “Sunita Kejriwal is a devoted wife. She does not have any idea what kind of conspiracies are being hatched in her house. She is observing her dharma,” he tweeted. In another tweet, he said: “Sunita Kejriwal is not aware of the truth. She is disturbed because of her husband’s downfall. I will accept all her abuses. I will not say anything against her.”
 
 Without relenting, Sunita questioned Kapil’s ‘truth’: “Kapil you called me didi, you should have told me about the Rs 2 crore that came to our house. Ok, so when did you come (to our house) on May 5. I didn’t get to know. I would always ask you for tea.” After he was sacked by Kejriwal from his cabinet, Mishra had alleged that he saw  , health minister, giving Rs 2 crore in cash to Kejriwal at his residence on May 5.
 
 AAP functionaries have claimed that Mishra is lying about his visit to the CM’s residence on that day. They have claimed that the CCTVs which cover the entrance and other parts of CM’s residence did not capture Mishra’s arrival. AAP MLA from Burari Sanjeev Jha has started an indefinite fast with the promise that he will break it only after Mishra tells him when he had visited the CM’s residence.
 
 Mishra was tweeting from his bed at RML Hospital where had been admitted after he fainted during a press conference at his residence on Sunday. In a lighter vein, he tweeted, with a smiley: “Sir @ArvindKejriwal, please return Sunitaji’s phone”, insinuating that it was Arvind Kejriwal who was tweeting from his wife’s account.
 
 Sunita had taken voluntary retirement from the   in 2016 after serving for nearly 22 years in the income tax department. Despite a lot of speculation about her political role in future, she rarely speaks or indulges in political activities. It was on May 8, when her brother-in-law was being cremated and he was named by Mishra as a PWD contractor who had submitted fake bills that he tweeted: “My brother in-law is no more and this stupid man is speaking all written script without any mind.”
 
 Meanwhile, Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari took potshots at Kejriwal by saying that soon Sunita may succeed Kejriwal as CM of Delhi, just as Rabri Devi did in Bihar because corruption charges are mounting against Kejriwal. He said the statements of Sunita Kejriwal on twitter confirm that AAP is a family party like several other familyrun parties in the country. “It appears that AAP is now in the league of clan politics practised by Congress, Samajwadi Party, RJD and others where the relatives of the party chiefs act as public faces of the party,” he said. He added that Sunita has criticised Mishra because she understands the significance of the evidence of corruption Mishra has against Kejriwal.
 
 It has been clarified earlier that AAP is against dynastic politics and that the party constitution doesn not allow members of the same family to contest elections or hold a high position in the party.
 
