NEW DELHI: Uruka is a night of community feasting like  . It marks the beginning of the   celebrations, the harvest festival of Assam. While the actual festival is a week away,   in Delhi advanced the celebrations since many families prefer to visit their home-state around that time. The state guest house on Saturday evening exuded a special vibe as community members sang and danced to the tune of popular folk music. People stood around a bonfire (meji) though it is usually lit at the crack of dawn on the   day. This was followed by a community feast, which is an integral part of Magh Bihu, also called Bhogali Bihu. 

 Srimanta Bezbaruah, who runs one of the oldest hotel and restaurant chains of Assam, claims these festivities have, over the years, helped bring the community closer and allow the younger generation, which has been away from the state, to stay connected to their tradition. 
 
 His wife, Paparee, had planned the feast for the night full of Assamese staples like gooseberry soup, kath alu fry, mua maas fry, labra. Jakoi restaurant will have bora saul (sticky rice), curd and jaggery, served as jolpan, and pitha (rice cake). An interesting part of her menu was naming the dishes after popular Assamese songs.
 
 This was also an occasion for many members to showcase their hidden talents. Office-bearers of the Bhavan performed nagara naam, a form of devotional music. Some officials crooned local and popular numbers. There were also people who recited their courtship stories while others regaled all with folktales they grew up with. Some all-time popular Assamese folk tracks were played too.
 
 Abhishruti, a popular Assamese singer and a sound engineer, flew in especially from Mumbai to be a part of these celebrations. Her busy city life otherwise does not allow her to relive childhood memories of singing, dancing and feasting in makeshift straw huts called bhela ghar that are burnt the next morning as a part of the celebrations. Dressed in elegant mekhela chador (traditional attire for women), she explained such activities allowed youngsters like her to follow community traditions.
 
