Gurgaon: Over 500 representatives from 150 workers’ unions, including six from   India Limited ( ) and Gurgaon chapters of the  ,   and  , will gather at 11am on Wednesday in Tau Devi Lal Park in Manesar, to devise their future course of action in the 2012 Maruti Suzuki labour unrest case. The   will decide how to re-appeal the verdict and extend help to the families of the 31 convicted  . Sources revealed that since 18 of these, who have been convicted of rioting, have already been in jail for four years, there will be efforts to get them released.

 With over 30,000 workers across Gurgaon and neighbouring Rewari choosing not to celebrate Holi, workers’ colonies in Manesar, Dharuhera and Dundahera wore a deserted look on Monday. This was the was workers chose to express their solidarity with their comrades and their unhappiness at the decision by the sessions court, which last Friday convicted 31 workers.
 
 Sources revealed the unions intend to work on multiple angles in the matter. Firstly, they plan to appeal for acquittal of the 18 workers who have been convicted of rioting. Lawyers representing the workers will request the court to consider that these accused have already been jailed for four years. Secondly, for the 13 workers convicted for murder, if the quantum of punishment is very high, they will challenge it in the high court. They are also considering challenging the lower court order, which has convicted 13 workers for Section 302 (murder). They believe the workers were not involved in the killing of the general manager (human resources) Awanish Kumar Dev. Besides this, life insurances policies will be provided to the families of the 13 convicts, and employment avenues will be explored for their families. Also, around 6,000 regular workers from MSIL have planned to contribute money to provide financial help to the families of the convicted workers.
 
 “We’ll discuss all aspects in detail and chalk out a plan. Our priority is to get the ones who have been convicted of rioting out of jail, and challenge the verdict if for the murder convicts, the quantum of punishment is high. Also, we have to support the livelihood of their families and their children’s education,” said Kuldeep Janghu of Maruti Udyog Workers Union.
 
 
