LUCKNOW: To avail heavy discounts announced by automobile companies on  , people thronged two-wheeler showrooms on the last day of the sale. 

 As soon as the two-wheeler companies came to know of the Supreme Court order to ban sale and registration of   vehicles from April 1, they took no time to give a waiver of Rs20,000-25,000 on high-end models of bikes and up to Rs12,000-15,000 on scooters exclusively on the last day of March. 
 
 The companies saw almost 12-15 times jump in volume sale of bikes and almost 20 times hike in scooters on Friday. A showroom owner said, “We generally sell 12-15 bikes per day but on Friday, we sold around 175 bikes.” Likewise, a scooter company saw sales jump from 10-12 vehicles per day to about 200 vehicles on March 31. 
 
 Ashish Singh, a resident of Vikasnagar said, “I was planning to buy a scooter for my wife since last one year but could not take the initiative because of demonetization and other important expenses. When I got to know about companies giving discounts up to Rs20,000 per vehicle, I immediately visited a nearby showroom. To my surprise, I got my scooter at just about Rs40,000 while its actual price is Rs63,000.”
 
 Since the offer was valid only for one day, no bank was available to finance the purchase. Hence people used their savings, debit and credit cards to buy the vehicles. Some pooled in money from their friends while others were so keen to buy their favourite model of two-wheeler that they took no time to use their credit cards to make the payments. Since it was the last day of the month, most people used their salaries to buy the vehicles.
 
 A showroom manager said, “Today selling off bikes was easier compared to other days because everyone came with an already set mind. They knew what to buy and had also brought cash or cards with them. There was no hassle of financing so the process was smoother. However the sales staff remained busy handling the heavy footfall of customers and was tired at the end of the day.” 
 
 A passionate biker, Dhruv said, “It was my dream to buy the highest variant of a branded bike but it was beyond my affordability. On Friday, my dream was fulfilled as the bike was almost Rs22,000 cheaper and I took no time to use my just credited March salary in buying it.” 
 
 
