MUMBAI: Overcrowding in the city’s local trains claimed a family’s sole bread winner while leaving another commuter injured. Both men fell off a crowded second-class compartment of a  , one after the other, near Vasai on Monday. 

 While Irfan Shaikh (29) died before admission to Ravi   in Vasai, Vikas Prajapati (29) survived with serious head and jaw injuries and fractures to his hands. 
 
 Prajapati, who works as a salesperson in a Goregaon mall, boarded the 8.30am   at Virar. His wife Amruta, who often travels with him in the same coach, had got into the ladies coach as the general compartment was packed at Virar itself. 
 
 itself and her husband had barely managed to find a foothold in it.
 
 Shaikh boarded the compartment at Nalasopara and was hanging out precariously. As the train was nearing Vasai, there was commotion and commuters began screaming that two men had fallen on the  . “The chain was pulled and I heard about two men falling on the tracks. I called up my husband but he did not answer my call. I continued on my journey,” said Amruta, who said the train left Vasai   after about 10 minutes.
 
 When Amruta reached   and did not see her husband, she again dialled his number. That is when a railway policeman answered his phone and told her that her husband had fallen off the train.
 
 The Vasai Government Railway Police (GRP), with whom an accidental death case has been registered, said Shaikh sustained serious head injuries and died on admission to the hospital. He is survived by his parents and pregnant wife. Shaikh was the only earning member of his family. Shaikh’s brother-in-law Faisal Mohiddin was informed about the accident at around 10am. He said Shaikh would take the Borivli train as he could alight at Mira Road, where he worked as a painter in a car showroom. 
 
 Amruta said it was getting increasingly impossible to board local trains during peak hour. “Trains originating at Virar come packed from Nalasopara. My husband was hanging out of the train right from Virar. Commuters getting off midway are not allowed to board Churchgate-bound trains. Even getting a foothold inside Borivli-and Andheri-bound trains has become a challenge,” she lamented. She said the train was late by around 10 minutes, which added to crowds at all stations along the route. After their struggle to board the Borivli-bound train, the couple was to again fight for space in the 9.24am Churchgate slow train, to alight at Goregaon.
 
 
