THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The cabinet on Wednesday decided to frame a law to make   across all the   including  , ICSE, self-financing, aided, un-aided and   in the state. 

 The new law being framed will make it mandatory to teach Malayalam till higher-secondary classes. The government plans to frame the law and promulgate an ordinance in this regard. The decision was taken by the cabinet after it came to the notice of the government that some Malayalam was not being taught in some schools.
 
 The cabinet also decided to extend the tenure of justice Sivarajan Commission that is probing the solar scam for another three more months beginning from April 28. The commission had requested for an extension after several evidences cropped up before the commission. The commission was appointed in October 2013 initially, with a tenure of six months to submit the report. Its tenure was extended subsequently several times.
 
 The government also gave clearance to the revised share pattern for   (KIAL). According to the new share pattern, the government will hold 35% shares (Rs 350 crore), public sector undertakings 24% (Rs 240 crore), public enterprises in the civil aviation sector 10% (Rs 100 crore) and cooperative banks, commercial banks, individuals and organisations 31% (Rs 310 crore).
 
 The cabinet also decided to speed up the procedures for investments in the state as part of creating more investment-friendly atmosphere in the state. As part of this, the government will streamline and converge the rules under the Kerala panchayat act, municipalities act, Kerala municipality building rules, Kerala lifts and escalators act, value added tax rules, rules regarding control of water resources, Kerala factories rules, head-load workers act, shops and commercial establishments act, inter-state migrant workers regulation rules, Kerala contract labour act and Kerala motor workers' rules.
 
 In addition, a new act titled Kerala investment promotion and facilitation act will be framed, that will help streamline all the rules required to be cleared for investment in the state. An investment promotion and facilitation centre will be set up by including the concerned officials of all the departments along with the officials from the Kerala state industrial development corporation (KSIDC) for the purpose.
 
 The government expects that by simplifying the procedures, the state can better its position in the 'ease of doing business' index. While the rules get amended, the government intends to cancel the powers of local bodies to give license or clear licenses to businesses on their discretion. Instead, decision will have to be taken on the basis of report from the concerned departments. The licenses that are at present issued for one year, will be made for five years and guidelines will be framed for dealing in case complaints regarding a particular business or business house arise. 
 
