RANCHI: The long-awaited community radio project at Ranchi University, called ' ' will soon be see the light of the day, said  , president of   postgraduate students' union. Khatri along with other members met the vice-chancellor of RU on Saturday, demanding commencement of the project. 

 Ramesh Kumar Pandey, the vice-chancellor of RU, assured the members of the student's union that the project will start very soon. Khatri said, "The VC has forwarded the request letter to the dean of students' welfare and has given a time-frame of six months for the radio to be functional."
 
 The project was planned five years ago (in 2011) by the then pro vice-chancellor, VP Sharan, for which the state government had approved an amount of Rs 40 lakh. However, despite various meetings over the years to start the project, the work never commenced.
 
 "I will pursue the VC again after 10 days. We are hoping that the radio will be functional by March, as it will prove to be very useful for the students," Khatri said.
 
 The exclusive radio service will help in the broadcasting of important information such as date and time of examination, placements and others about the latest developments at the university. 
 
 "The students of RU in rural areas will not have to rush to the university headquarters to get important information, once the radio is functional. There are also provisions of broadcasting audio lectures on the radio to help the students academically," Khatri said.
 
 Meanwhile, the vice-chancellor convened a meeting with the principals of different colleges under RU and directed them to provide a separate office for the students' union in their respective colleges. 
 
 Pandey said, "The principals have been asked to provide office to the students' union along with all the facilities. They have been asked to open a separate bank account in the name of the union which will be administered by the principal of the college and the secretary of the students' union."
 
 The VC also directed the principals to prepare a self-study report by January 25, which will be submitted to the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). 
 
 The colleges will also have to upload the data on the website of the All India Survey of Higher Education, (AISHE) as getting a certificate from AISHE has been made compulsory for all the colleges.
 
 
