HYDERABAD: Postgraduate medical aspirants from the state are caught in a quandary with private colleges denying them admission, citing the lack of consensus between the government and colleges over fee structure.

 According to students, private college managements have refused to accept the fee or certificates from them. In some cases, they have even received phone calls from institutions asking them not to come to college before fee structure is finalised.
 
 “If we don't report to colleges by May 17, the seats that we are allotted will be cancelled and will be made available in the third phase of counselling. Colleges, on the other hand, are not willing to give us admissions although the government has allotted seats,“ said Kaushik, a PG aspirant. Another aggrieved student, Sandeep, said: “After receiving a notification about seat allotment, my brother visited the college to pay the fee on my behalf, but the college outright refused to take the money.“
 
 On Monday, Kaloji   (KNRUHS), which is conducting counselling on behalf of the state, allocated a total of 780 PG medical seats to candidates in govern ment, private, and non-minorities along with 72 seats in   and 46 seats in minority medical colleges and asked students to join their respective colleges before May 17.
 
 Meanwhile, the members of Health Reforms and Doctors' Association (HRDA) and Telangana Junior Doctors' Association on Tuesday demanded the government to intervene and make sure that colleges follow the court orders. “It's time for the government to decide whether they are going to back students or college managements. The colleges are openly demanding students to pay revised fee if they wish to seek admission in the colleges.This is not just illegal, but also contempt of court,“ said  , secretary general, HRDA. The vice-chancellor of KNRUHS, on the other hand, said they won't conduct the next phase of counselling till the issue is resolved.
 
 “The students need not worry about losing their seats as we won't be conducting next phase of counselling till the private colleges honour or reject this seat allotment,“ said B Karunakar Reddy, VC of KNRUHS and added that although the varsity is the implementing authority they can't do anything till the government takes a decision.
 
