THANE: A record 58% of Thaneites exercised their voting right as polling day here was marred by widespread dissatisfaction over missing names and confusion over the process of electing four corporators from a ward.

 Polling in Thane also witnessed a huge turnout gap between the young and the older voters. While millennial voters choose to be oblivious to the goings-on, elderly citizens and middle-aged voters turned out in large numbers here. 
 
 “It is very disturbing trend that young voters have refrained from exercising their rights. Politically, it could result in a status quo so far as the party equations are considered as the vote-for-change brigade, which came pouring out in large numbers in 2014, was missing in 2017,” observers said.
 
 Voters appeared disgusted as they verified and re-verified voter sheets and punched angrily to search for their names in the   advertised website. “I voted in the 2014 assembly polls from the booth in   school but I have been deleted from the list now. I have been trying to locate myself on the TMC search engines and even typed an incorrect spelling but all that has proved futile,” said   (24) .
 
 Many had a harrowing time inside the cardboard cubicle as the colour on each panels on the EVMs were incorrectly placed. “Ideally, there should have been a continuation of the colour when the candidates from the same ward spill over to the other EVMs. However, that was not the case in my booth and I do not know if my vote is valid at all now,” complained an elderly citizen from the   complex on Ghodbunder Road. The reworking of voter lists barred several old-time residents. 
 
 “The TMC administration was finalizing the voters list till the last few days as a result of which we were unable to prepare the voter slip which we dispatch to every residence. The voters came only with their voting cards or other ID proofs and there was utter confusion,” a senior political activist told TOI.
 
 Several voters complained names on the ballot units were faded leading to difficulty in reading especially among senior citizens. Senior NCP leader   also faced problems while casting his vote thanks to the new panel system.
 
 
