NEW DELHI: Limited   and uncomfortable aircraft seats are the biggest bug bears for the Indian globetrotter, followed by  , low service on board, long wait for drinks and loud children. 

 But cheap airfare is the biggest factor for the desi traveller to select an airline, with the image of the carrier in terms of inflight experience and seating comfort taking a back seat at the time of booking, according to a survey. 
 
 The “pre-flight” section of the study shows travel agency remains the main point of booking for Indian travellers followed by airline website or app. 
 
 “On an average, air tickets are booked 27 days in advance,” it says. “Airfare discounts, comfortable seats and in flight experience are the top parameters while selecting the airline. Factors like cabin crew, additional baggage, transfer time, special assistance, visa assistance and complementary lounge access are considered as hygiene factors,” the study adds. The study was undertaken by Emirates on “understanding habits and attitudes of air travellers” on Indians at airports and malls in three cities — Mumbai, Hyderabad and Trivandrum — last year.
 
 Additional baggage allowance was important for passengers travelling for personal reasons and flyers from Hyderabad and Trivandrum ranked punctuality ahead of in-flight experience. 
 
 While Majority of the 1,100 respondents said, they did exceed baggage limit, “travellers from Mumbai travelled heavier compared to rest.” Books and gadgets are top two things always carried on a long-haul flight. Flyers from Mumbai were found to carry more books more while those from Hyderabad carried more gadgets. During travel, “sleeping, watching movies and reading are top three in-flight activities of respondents travelling to international destinations. 
 
 Domestic passengers work on laptop/tablet in-flight.” “Hyderabad and Trivandrum travellers ranked uncomfortable seats and lack of sleep ahead of disturbance from neighbours and low level of service on-board.Comfortable seats, service oriented staff and in-flight dining are top three components which would enhance travel experience of respondents travelling to international destinations,” the study says.
 
