PATNA: Renowned molecular biologist and Banaras Hindu University’s former VC Lalji Singh on Wednesday stressed the need for restructuring, modernizing and de-bureaucratising universities and public-funded R&D institutions in order to make India a leading knowledge society.

 Speaking as the chief guest at the 11th convocation of Nalanda Open University ( ) at S K Memorial Hall in Patna, Singh said institutions of higher education and research must be given sufficient flexibility, freedom of operation and financial autonomy if they have to excel at the international level. Governor-cum-chancellor Keshri Nath Tripathi presided.
 
 Nearly 1,500 scholars who had passed the post-graduate, undergraduate and diploma examinations from NOU in 2016 were conferred degrees at the convocation. As many as 28 toppers, including 16 girls, were awarded gold medals.
 
 Quoting a recent report of the United Nations Population Fund Agency, Lalji Singh pointed out that India with a population of 356 million youths, the highest in the world, presents an enormous opportunity to transform the future. But the youth can transform the future only when they have skills, health, decision-making and real choices in life. Nearly 13 million young people enter the labour force every year, but they lack skills. India’s higher education enrolment rate is just over 20%. 
 
 For enhancing the enrolment ratio, he said, the government of India is establishing 30 new central universities, five new Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research, eight IITs, seven new IIMs, 20 Indian Institutes of Information Technology, 1600 new it is and polytechnics, over 10,000 vocational schools and 50,000 new skill development centres. The goal is to impart vocational training to one lakh students a year, he said.
 
 Singh, who is presently the MD of Genome Foundation, said infrastructure has to be created for identification of indigenous talents and processes have to be devised to nurture and promote such talents. Our farmers, too, with their vast and hitherto untapped reservoir of experience and skills, have a crucil role to play in the development of high-tech areas such as biotechnology an drug discovery by harnessing traditional knowledge and wisdom, he added.
 
 Governor Tripathi, in his presidential remarks, said distance education could play a significant role in enhancing the gross enrolment ratio in higher education. He appreciated the efforts of NOU in setting up new study centres in rural areas with a view to increasing the enrolment ratio. 
 
 He called upon the students and youth to help establish high moral standards in public life through their decent behaviour and discipline. They must work for emancipation of the unprivileged and deprived sections of the society.
 
 NOU VC Ravindra Kumar Sinha said all the students admitted to this university would get their study material online from the next academic session. The university has arranged for a mobile app on the Android platform which can be downloaded by students free of cost. The entire NOU has been converted into a free Wi-Fi campus. 
 
 The university is also contemplating to introduce a large number of new courses from the next academic session. The construction of NOU’s new building on 10 acres of land allotted by the state government at Nalanda would also start soon, the VC said.
 
 NOU registrar S P Sinha proposed the vote of thanks.
 
 
