LUCKNOW: The Samajwadi Party's election war room is buzzing. In line with SP chief  's image of a tech-savvy politician, the party nerve centre is packed with state of-the-art gadgets that shape and sharpen the party's campaign, seek and analyse feedback from people, 24x7.

 Real-time feedback on the party manifesto, booth-level reach of nominees via 1.6 lakh workers, bundle of social media and call centres have made the war room effectively run a 360-degree campaign.
 
 The three-room office in a bungalow housing the Janeshwar Mishra Trust adjacent to the SP's Vikramaditya Marg office - has five sections. There's the research and analysis wing, one each for social media, media monitoring, digital content (audio-video) and feedback through call centers. Campaign preparations for Akhilesh Yadav are also controlled from here. The CM is provided talking points, details of hyperlocal issues for his public meetings. The idea is to connect with the electorate when the CM speaks.
 
 “We're in touch with candidates and district-level party workers via our call centres, not only to collect inputs but also to send out campaign directives,“ says war room chief Aashish Yadav, communication expert for state programmes with the BBC for 12 years before he decided to work for “boss“ (Akhilesh).Aashish, from Jhansi, quit his j o b to push forward the SP campaign because of the party's “socialist ideology and development agen da“ that he supports as a “UP boy". “Take it as my contribution to my state's well-being."
 
 Working with him is Anshuman Sharma, who also used to work for the BBC. As head of the research wing, Anshuman, who went to school in Meerut, handles planning and feedback on the overall campaign and for the SP chief in particular.
 
 “For Wednesday's Dhaurahra rally, we gathered inputs like problems the locals face, their demands and the candidate's reach, “Anshuman says, adding that before Akhilesh left to address that meeting, his team filled him in with details like the demand of the locals for a road linking Kasta to Dhaurahra. In his address hours later, Akhilesh promised them that road. Immediately after Akhilesh's Lakhimpur rallies, the research wing got down to collecting people's feedback through booth-level workers. A report was drawn up on the event's high points and the patches demanding attention.
 
 Described as the war room's “eyes and ears" is the social media section, which reaches out to 1.2 crore people, claims unit in charge Ahmed Aftab Naqvi. A Lucknow resident, he ran an independent digital agency from Mumbai earlier. Aftab's predictions are clear: This poll, social media campaigns and their impact will set new records.
 
 The media monitoring cell tracks developments through the day across news channels, newspapers and online news .It prepares the team of party spokespersons for TV debates.It sent out talking points on responses to BJP neta Vinay Katiyar's comment on Priyanka Gandhi. The brief sent out had a footnote: Stick to positive campaigning. Talk of the SP government's initiatives for women such as the 1090 helpline and women's pension.
 
