MUMBAI: Industrialist  , who is in the driving seat in the IDFC-Shriram merger, appears to have an ace up his sleeve. The complex merger of an infrastructure lender-turned-bank with a retail group hinges on the   allowing   (STFC) existing separately as an associate company outside the merged bank — something the central bank has never done before.

 So far, the RBI has insisted that lenders cannot have associates or subsidiary companies to do business that can be done within a bank. This is not the case in the Shriram-IDFC deal as STFC remains outside the bank. However, Piramal says that he is not that naive to get into a deal if he did not believe it would be allowed. Piramal also makes it clear that this is not an acquisition of Shriram — rather, it is the finance company that is the dominant partner.
 
 “If Shriram has Rs 1,00,000 crore as   and a market capitalisation larger than IDFC and 2,000 touch points, to say that it would cease to exist is an anomaly,” said Piramal, responding to a query on whether Shriram would continue to exist after the merger. 
 
 But at the same time, Piramal — who is the chairman of the holding company   and has invested over Rs 4,400 crore in the group — says he will not be a promoter. “We are not even a promoter today in the Shriram group and we will not be a promoter in the merged entity,” said Piramal. He added that whatever the RBI regulations are on shareholding limits, the Piramal group would “follow to a T”.
 
  
  
  owns a 20% stake in Shriram Capital and a 10% stake each in Shriram Transport and  . Most of the shares in Shriram Capital is held by Shriram Ownership Trust — a fund for employees. Shriram group founder R Thyagarajan himself holds around 1%. 
 
 According to Piramal, IDFC’s banking licence is one of the key drivers behind the deal. “If it is a bank, you are ensuring the longevity of the institution. If there is ever a black swan event, you need a bank to fall back on,” said Piramal. “The valuations are not done. No transaction has been approved by the board. Shareholding, board seats are yet to be discussed. We have only entered into an exclusivity arrangement for 90 days to jointly explore an opportunity for a merger,” said Piramal. He added that during this period, the parties will engage in a due diligence process, decide on valuations and approach the respective boards that will meet and decide.
 
 IDFC Bank MD & CEO Rajiv Lall said there is a possibility that STFC might be merged with the lender in the future as the latter grows. The partners will also merge the asset management companies in the two groups. The deal fulfils IDFC’s ambition of getting into the insurance space. Shriram General Insurance is most profitable, with blue-chip partners in Sanlam. Life insurance is already generating dividends. Both will end up being subsidiaries of IDFC Limited.
 
 
