Nagpur: 13-year-old Mrunalini Desai has never attended a formal school.

 When she was seven, her parents got a letter from the education department enquiring reasons for not admitting their daughter to a school. “My wife and I are educated people and we are trying to educate our daughter through cognitive learning, which is not possible in formal schools. She is out of school but she is not out of education,” was their reply.
 
 Mrunalini’s parents Meenal and Sachin Desai are running a study centre for experiential learning in their native village Dhamapur on the Konkan coast. Mrunalini, today, is in a tribal village in Karnataka, teaching Kannada to school dropouts. “She first stayed in the village for six months and learnt the language,” says Sachin.
 
 Since the beginning, the couple were sure of not wanting to educate their daughter by imparting the chalk and talk method. “The biggest advantage of   is that children can concentrate on specific subjects of their liking. Mrunalini has always been inclined towards literature and classical music and she is excelling in these fields. She knows basic Mathematics but she was not forced to study it as part of a forced curriculum,” says Sachin. 
 
 Mrunalini has completed levels A, B and C from National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) which is equivalent to third, fifth and eight standard of formal education system.
 
 The Maharashtra government’s recent decision to start Maharashtra State Open School (MSOS) is a boon for parents like Sachin. “NIOS had many success stories but it cannot penetrate in every state. Thus, a state open school was much needed,” says Sachin, who had also filed a petition in this regard. 
 
 The case of Malvika is no different. Wanting her to learn something that she can’t in a regular school, Malvika’s mother Mumbai-based Supriya Joshi decided to home school her after Std VII. Malvika did not complete Std X or Std XII but represented India at the International Programming Olympiad thrice. 
 
 “She did not get admission in IIT because she didn’t pass 12th board exams. But Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Boston, approached her last year seeing her portfolio,” Supriya says, adding that kids pursuing open education have immense scope. 
 
 Supriya’s younger daughter Radha, 17, is also being home schooled. “She has a keen interest in photography and she gets time to pursue her talent. Similarly, Malvika was interested in coding and both of them would design their own curriculum. Their learning process involved a lot of mentors too,” says Supriya.
 
 Nagpur’s Nikhil Lanjewar is another parent who wants to keep his three-and-a-half year old daughter Ira away from the formal school education. “As per the framework of NIOS, a child has to learn major subjects like general science, general maths, any language and a vocational subject of their choice,” he says.
 
 With such an open approach and flexible curriculum, children can choose specific skills and focus on them from a young age. Nikhil says, “Kids living in Konkan region can learn about fishery while a student poor in academics but good in carpentry can learn the trade and still be recognized as ‘educated’. A potter’s son doesn’t necessarily need to study about war history, he can learn the history of pottery.” 
 
 Welcoming the state’s decision, these parents hope that the government would do justice to open schooling method. “The entire thing lies in curriculum making. They should not fit it in the same domain of formal education,” says Sachin.
 
 There will be challenges and parents opting for open schooling will have to be cautious. “Let the kids decide what they want to learn. The willingness to learn should come from them,” says Supriya.
 
 
