BENGALURU: A day after the residents of HSR Layout and surrounding areas protested against a   processing unit in their neighbourhood, villagers and residents of Mahadevapura banded together to raise their voice against indiscriminate dumping of waste.

 Nearly 500 citizens congregated outside the BBMP head office at NR Square on Tuesday. They claimed garbage is being unloaded at two abandoned quarries under the Mahadevapura constituency, terming the practice illegal. 
 
 “For six months, BBMP has been discarding Bengaluru’s trash at Mittaganahalli and Bellahalli villages. This is being done without permission. Backed by police personnel, truckers brazenly dump waste here. No one is okay with this; neither the gram panchayat members nor I,” said Aravind Limbavali, Mahadevapura MLA, who spearheaded the protest. 
 
 The protesters submitted a letter to BBMP commissioner BN Manjunath Prasad demanding the practice be stopped since it is posing health risks to residents in the vicinity. The movement of trash-laden vehicles is damaging the roads in and around the villages, they rued. 
 
 “The rights of citizens to clean air and water cannot be denied. The affected residents are not benefiting from essential services like good roads and decent conditions of schools. If BBMP can penalize errant residents, we as residents demand the Palike must pay for what it has put us through,” said the letter.
 
 According to the letter, the dumping is also leading to contamination of groundwater in the surrounding villages of Kannur, Doddagubbi and  , in turn causing cattle and residents to fall sick. This is affecting agricultural activity.
 
 Lokesh, a resident of Mittaganahalli which is part of the constituency, said children and senior citizens are the worst hit. “I have had to run to Baptist hospital many times. A spot near the   station is where the dumping normally occurs. It had stopped during the Aero Show but has restarted,” he said.
 
 The protesters also alleged that the responsibility of Ramapura lake was also being tossed between BBMP and BDA. “The lake was under the BDA’s maintenance but was handed over to BBMP. The officials are mainly involved in paperwork and are not concerned about taking any action on the ground. If they don’t take immediate steps, we will intensify our protests. Garbage is being dumped and burnt near ITPB and Bangladeshi immigrants have been hired for the purpose,” Limbavali alleged.
 
 Byregowda, another resident, said their protest is not being taken seriously. “We live 5-10 km from the airport and while that area is spick and span, ours is filthy,” he said.
 
 ‘Close compost plant’
 
 Around 100 residents from HSR Layout, Somasundarpalya, Kudlu Gate, Muneshwaranagar, Haralukunte and Haralur staged a protest before the   on Monday, demanding the compost plant be closed. The stench is giving them sleepless nights and the pollution caused by the plant is posing health risks, they alleged. The plant was shut down in 2008 and reopened in 2013 on court orders. However, the commitments which came along with the orders have not been implemented, alleged the residents.
 
