NAGPUR: City’s biggest housing project, Anandam, has faced yet another setback. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation ( ) has rejected the revised layout and building plans of the project. Now, the developer,  , cannot go for proposed expansion or revision in the project.

 As per documents obtained under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, the NMC cited four reasons for turning down the plea.
 
 One of the reasons is that Goldbricks proposed to utilize the amenity space’s some portion for residential, commercial and road purposes. “Twenty-five percent of the total layout area should be left for amenity space of which 50% area is for playground/recreational ground. While this has been done, residential and commercial usages have been shown in the remaining 50% area. Residential and commercial usage is not permitted in amenity space as per the city’s development control regulation (DCR),” NMC said.
 
 The civic body added that a road for residential area is shown in playground/recreational ground, which, too, is not permissible.
 
 The NMC added that the project land’s boundary and area are not demarcated in an appropriate manner. “City Survey Office-I had sought permission from Superintendent of Land Record (SLR) for correction in mutation of the project land area. Also, the City Survey Office-I sought permission to cancel the mutation if required,” the NMC said.
 
 The NMC also cited reason of lack of convenience shopping in the project’s layout behind rejection of the revised layout and building plans.
 
 Chief manager of Goldbricks Pratik Saraogi told TOI that there will be no effect on the existing project and the setback is only to the future plan. “We had constructed 600 flats of which occupancy certificate has been obtained for 575 flats. People are residing in 350 flats at present. We planned to add 6,500 sq.ft area in the project so sought revision in layout and building plans. We are planning to file an appeal with the state’s urban development department. There will be no impact even if the revised layout and building plan are rejected in the appeal,” he said.
 
 RTI activist TH Naidu said NMC should cancel the original layout and building plans of the project. “Maharashtra Pollution Control Board had issued notices to the project and said that 168 of the flats are unauthorized. NMC had given only provisional approval to the project’s original layout. City survey office clearly mentioned that mutation was done for excess land area. Besides, Goldbricks constructed 28 floors comprising 168 flats without MPCB’s consent and environment clearance. Therefore, all layout and building plans need to be cancelled followed by demolition of structures,” he said.
 
 One of the top NMC officials said scrutiny into original layout and building plans was going on and final decision to be taken soon.
 
 The NMC kept the revised layout and building plans pending since January 2012 and decision taken after directives from the high court in December last year.
 
 ----------------------
 
 Controversies:
 
 Land Mess: Land of Anandam, MSEDCL and Rai Udyog are part of city survey sheet no-101 and khasra no- 259. Total land area in the khasra is registered as 1,43,421 sq.mt. However, sale deed of three property holders comes to 1,46,684 sq.mt, leaving an excess of 3,263 sq.mt. City survey office’s investigation in the case going on
 
 Flats Violation: Environment clearance is for S+11 floors for Tower-A and S+15 floors for A-1, B and C. Developer constructed Basement+S+19 floors in Towers A, A-1, B and C. Thus, 8 floors in Tower A and four floors in A-1, B and C lack permission. Developer also constructed E and F blocks with Basement+S+19 floors without environment clearance. Each floor comprises six flats, so 168 are against environment clearance and MPCB consent
 
 More Violations: Excavation works and construction of model flat were done before obtaining consent to establish from MPCB. Some parts of buildings were occupied before completion of STP and MSW systems. MSW stored in unscientific manner and no separation of biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste. Green belt development, horticulture works not done. Internal roads not developed and asphalted
 
