ALAPPUZHA: Chief minister   said that the doctors should stop subjecting the patients for unnecessary tests in private laboratories and should not treat the patients with business mind. He was speaking after inaugurating the newly constructed gallery type auditorium, gallery type lecture hall and the water tank of Alappuzha Medical College Hospital here.

 Vijayan said that the state government has received complaints from the people that the doctors are sending the patients for unnecessary tests and buying medicines."The people have talked about the business mind sets of doctors while treating the patients. Some section of doctors, who have nexus with laboratories and medical stores, should stop it. Otherwise, it should totally damage the health sector of the state and the doctors service to the patients is their moral responsibility," he said.
 
 He also said that medical college hospitals in the state are functioning in tune with the standards of super specialty hospitals and these hospitals can provide all types of treatments being given in private super specialty hospitals to the patients. "But people are showing interest to go to the private hospitals ignoring the facilities at government medical colleges," he said.
 
 The chief minister said that all the medical colleges in the state will get sea of change within 2020 and all the MCHs will be upgraded to the above the standards of super specialty hospitals.
 
 The chief minister also demanded the staff and doctors of   Hospital to approach in more friendly manner. He said that Alappuzha is a district of ordinary people especially working class people. "So when they approach for the treatments at the hospital, the doctors and other staff should treat them in such a manner and they should get better care from the medical college. The state government wishes to stand always with the people in all sectors. The government will not reduce the staff or cut short the posts in hospitals. The government needs to give better care to the people," he said.
 
