NEW DELHI: Over 5.5 lakh people who deposited cash during the   drive are set to get a call from the   while another one lakh people are on the radar of tax officials for not disclosing all their bank accounts.
 
  In the second phase of ‘Operation Clean Money”, the tax department is asking these people to explain deposit inconsistent with their income profile. “Fresh set of data of suspicious transactions has come to us…
  
  We have begun sending out emails and SMSs to over 5.5 lakh individuals whose tax profile was not consistent with the deposits made,” a senior   official told ET.
  
  Income tax authorities are relying on data analytics to identify high-risk clusters, shell companies and benami assets. The department has also identified over one lakh individuals who did not disclose all their bank accounts when questioned in the first phase of  .
  
  The department identified 17.92 lakh people in the first phase of which 9.72 lakh had submitted online responses. The income tax department has uploaded the details of information about these deposits on the e-filing window of the PAN-holder on its website.
  
  
 
  
  For now, these 6.5 lakh people have to submit online explanations without having to visit income tax offices as yet. Cash deposits of over Rs 2 lakh made during demonetisation have to be disclosed in income tax returns this year.
  
  The income tax department will match this information with the details it has to see if there is any misreporting. The government on November 8 last year demonetised Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 currency notes, giving people time till December 30 to deposit the cancelled currency.
  
  Those who deposited over Rs 2 lakh in demonetised currency have been under the radar. The government had also given people one last opportunity to come clean, allowing them to declare unaccounted cash under the  , 2016.
  
  Those making a declaration had to pay a total tax and penalty of 50 per cent and deposit 25 per cent of amount disclosed in non-interest bearing deposit for four years. The total amount declared under the scheme was Rs 5,000 crore. 
