GREATER NOIDA: Nearly two weeks after local residents assaulted African students staying in Greater   the two sides sat across the table on Saturday to sort out their differences. The meeting, attended by members of Association of African Students in India (AASI) and the RWAs of Greater Noida, was organised by   police. 

 While the   suggested that the issue of racial discrimination was deep-rooted in India, locals pointed to a host of disciplinary issues which the former should take care of.
 
 “This issue is deeply rooted in India. In my campus, whenever I roam around, they tend to see me differently. Racial discrimination is involved in this incident. In this, we have to call a spade a spade. I expect a formal statement. Even the new chief minister should have come out and made a statement against this,” said Abdullah, a BBA student of  .
 
 The locals and university officials, however, complained about the disciplinary issues being faced by them in the societies and the universities.
 
 “Over 98% of the students from African countries do not follow parking rules. When pointed out, they get aggressive and say things like, “do not touch me”. We face such issues regularly. Even police is very lenient with them as they know they cannot be arrested,” said Pawan Yadav, senior security officer, Sharda University.
 
 Members of the RWAs suggested that the universities should educate the international students on the law of the land and rules and regulations of the society through a mandatory course once they land in India.
 
 They also complained about late-night gatherings, overspeeding vehicles etc. “One of the vehicles actually broke a wall in our society,” said Mayank Sharma, a resident of Mitra Enclave in Sector Omega II.
 
 Meanwhile, some agreed that local residents charge foreign nationals a bit more for the rented apartments. “They are charged more and hence, when an issue arises, the landlord doesn’t want to interfere,” said an   president.
 
 African nationals too admitted that the brokers/landlords in the societies charge them more. “I am paying Rs 14,000 for a flat in Casa Grande in Chi V where locals are charged Rs 7,500 as rent,” said Adam Ibrahim, a former student of Sharda University.
 
 The meeting concluded with both the communities deciding to hold an event where programmes of both cultures will be displayed.
 
 
