PACHPADRA: A landscape of erratic sand dunes sparsely covered with babul trees and meswak, and patchworks of sandy plains and saline depressions are the fleeting photo frames that lead you to Pachpadra on 90-minute journey on NH-112 from Jodhpur. Hidden in the vast expanses of barren terrain and brooding silence broken once in a while by the passing of a goods truck or peacock screams, this little known Tehsil headquarters was not used to the ways of having high expectations and big disappointments.But the previous government's decision in September 2013 to set up the refinery here changed all that, unsettling the naivety of the rural folks as it rocked them between hope and despair.
Four years ago around this time, Gulab circle, a three-way intersection that comes 4 km before Pachpadra connecting Barmer and Jodhpur and houses a motel, dhaba and a couple of tea stalls, sprang to life when the news of the proposed refinery getting shifted from Baitu to Pachpadra spread. This quiet, dreary joint isolated from the hurly-burly of the town quickly became the nerve centre of frenzied activities as land brokers, farmers, investors, speculators and middlemen tried to make the most of an opportunity early on.
 
 “We had never seen so many unknown faces with luxury cars camping here to buy land. During the six months starting from around September 2013, Gulab circle became the place where humanity and currency had lost all meaning. Around 40-50 cars would arrive every day with boot spaces filled with cash. Even though most of it meant token money , it ran into Rs 10 lakhs and above. In some cases, people didn't have enough close confidantes to count the money and just accepted booty in trust,“ says Sona Ram, a 36-year old businessman, who also dabbles in local politics.
 
 Congress president   coming here and laying the foundation stone lent credence to the proposed refinery. People with deep-pockets close to politicians, bureaucrats, HPCL officials trooped in to acquire large parcels of land hoping that they would get exponential returns.
 
 “Prices increased by 10 times.The cost of one bigha of land, which used to fetch Rs 5 lakh, went up to about Rs 50 lakh. Buyers were mostly from big cities and many were friends and acquaintances of bureaucrats, HPCL officials and politicians. Because of sodic soil, there is no scope for agriculture.Wherever the soil was normal, without sodium, agriculture was limited to bajra or any crop that survives with one shower of two.That's why the farmers were desperate to sell the land. Every morning they would turn up at the junction and queue up with land documents before the brokers,“ says B D Charan, manager of a general insurance company .
 
 But the defeat of Congress party in the assembly elections and the subsequent decision of new chief minister   to review the project changed everything. Land prices started crashing as people realized that BJP would not pursue the project. In February 2014, the interim budget proposed by the chief minister had proposed Rs 400 crore of which not a single rupee was utilized for the project.
 
 “The rates for 1 bigha land There is had gone up to for us to believe Rs 50 lakh. It's not only But now, the prices have collapsed by 80%.There is no buyer in the market.Now, people realize that it was a bogus boom. Moreover, the government had raised DLC rates by more than 40% in 2015. The current market price of a land is much lower than the DLC rates.Such a move by the government has brought to a halt whatever routine sale and purchase of land was happening,“ adds Sona Ram. There is a deep distrust among people c in the project. Signing of the revised MoU in April this year between the state government and HPCL was a nonevent in Pachpadra. Even the preparations announced last month by the government about signing a land-lease deal with HPCL this month, building an approach road from NH 112 to the refinery site, laying water pipeline and electricity lines required for the construction, have not been able to convince the locals. The government has set a September dead-line for lay ing the foundation stone. Once-bit ten twice shy, for the people of Pachpadra the re finery has become more of a wishful thinking. Gulab circle, which has gone back to its brooding self in the past three years, did not get any unknown faces after newspapers carried the government's new plans for the project.
 
 “The government took more than three years to announce reworked deal. By this time more than 75% of the refinery construction work would have been completed. We hear Prime Minis ter   will come and lay the foundation stone. Sonia Gandhi had also g done so. But nothing happened.
 
 That's why, it is hard to believe the government's intentions. It's not only the people in Pachpadra, but the outsiders have also lost trust.Had the project been real, they would have come to buy land, like they did last time around.Our livelihood sources are meagre and we needed the project most to improve our situation and not to see our children go to Gujarat as daily labourers,“ says 72-year-old Moti Ram, who is a regular to one of the tea-shops in Gulab circle. In 2013, some youngsters from Pachpadra who were work ing in cities in private companies got caught in the `bogus boom'. Sensing that there would be lucrative opportunities that the refinery will generate, they left jobs and came back to their home town.
 
 “I got excited about the prospects of the refinery. An industrial project of Rs 37000 crore generally generates opportunities in massive scale. Like me, some others also nurtured hopes of getting engaged in some way or the other in the project. But all I witnessed was a mad rush for land. It was difficult for me to go back and find a job again in Jaipur,“ said Hazara Singh who works in Jaipur as an office assistant.
 
 While the BJP government appears to be working overnight to convey the message that the refinery is very much on course, the timing of doing it doesn't cut much ice with the feelings of the people here.
 
 “In a year's time, the assem bly elections are going to be held. So, whatever urgency is shown in building the project of such scale will not go far. And also the people think that the government can always waste a few crores in laying pipelines, bringing electricity, and building an approach road to give the impression that it is committed to the project. Actually, we are not expecting much from this government given its way of handling the project,“ said a hotelier who is now struggling to save his investments in the property made keeping the refinery in mind.
 
 The helipads that Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her entourage used to arrive at the place four years ago to lay the foundation stone are still in some shape. Modi may choose to have his own helipads. But people here hope that Pachpadra does become a grave yard of foundation stones.
 
 
 
 By planning to fast-track the processes of getting various approvals and clearances, the state government is trying to send out a message that the refinery will be a reality. But there are many question marks that hang over the project.The state government is yet to come out with details as to how it is going to fund its part of the equity which works out to be around Rs 3800 crore for 26% in the joint venture. While the land of 4,800 acre in its possession will contribute about Rs 250 crore to meet the equity needs, there is no clarity on how the government is going to mobilise rest of the funds. The recent MoU signed between the state government and HPCL has actually raised the project cost to Rs 43,129 crore from Rs 37,229 crore earlier. Accordingly, the annual viability gap funding should have risen. Instead, it has come down from Rs 3,736 crore to Rs 1,123 crore. There are not enough details to assess how the government's liability has come down. Moreover, by choosing to keep both the MoUs (the old and the new one) a secret has only fueled speculation. Works on the refinery site has to go beyond building boundary walls to dispel the doubt. Otherwise, it will look like another poll-year promise.On its part, HPCL also needs to announce that it has the capital to go ahead with the project. Early this month, media reports suggested that the company would hit the market to raise funds. But it has not come out with any specific roadmap for that. Unless, there is clarity on all these issues, doubts will linger on the fate of the project.
 
