What could be better than the freedom to party hard in the most breezy and comfortable of clothes and sneakers? The chance to learn a new dance form and explore the limits of your body. And that’s exactly what’s happening in a big way in Kolkata. Yes, we are talking about the myriad fitness parties happening around town — be it a salsa night or Zumba unplugged! CT explored the trend and here’s the lowdown for those who love the adrenaline rush of an evening filled with dance.

 
 The major party hubs in town are now collaborating with various dance and fitness instructors to organise fitness parties. Top instructors of the city also join hands at times to put together such gigs. On being asked why fitness parties are suddenly such a rage, Amit and Dorothy from DNA Workshop, who’d recently organised such a gig, told us that it’s all about how people approach life now. “In the past few years, people have become more conscious about their health, fashion and lifestyle. These gigs act as stress-busters for them, while allowing them to socialise and make friends. That’s exactly why the trend has become so popular so fast,” Amit said.
 Hitesh Teckchandani aka The Salsawala, who has been conducting free salsa workshops every 
  morning by the   for a year now along with several dance fitness gigs across the city, had a similar experience to share. “In today’s busy schedule, it gets very difficult to make space for activity classes. Also, once or twice a week you want to meet friends after office and chill. In my dance parties, I see couples showing up together, dancing and getting into a better shape of mind and body. Moreover, dancing makes you happy. So, no wonder such parties are a rage,” he said.
 
 
 While a number of clubs and pubs allow dance sessions during the weekend, a number of gyms are also allowing people to throw parties. “Having a fitness class instead of drinks is a growing trend among women in the city. A couple of weeks back, one of my clients threw a dance fitness party on her terrace. Most of her female friends attended it,”  , a fitness trainer and Zumba instructor, told us.
 Kesha’s view was seconded by an employee of a popular restopub in town. “We’ve been conducting a number of fitness parties for six months now and women always outnumber men in such gigs. So, it’s pretty evident that fitness parties are more popular among women,” he said.
 
 
 People told us that these gigs are actually encouraging them to kick bad habits and think healthy. “Walking into a disco in sneakers gives a very positive, healthy vibe. So obviously, you drink less and if you really like the class, end up being a regular, just like me!” said Suchi Verghese, a banker we met at a gig.
 
 
 
 It’s a fun gig where people get together, eat healthy, drink moderately and burn calories through fitness activities like Zumba, aerobics or pilates or energetic dance forms like salsa or kizomba
 
 
 The organisers make sure there are at least two trainers on the floor to teach different levels of dance to the party peeps. And with a live DJ churning out dance numbers, things can get really hot
 
 
 Comfy clothes, preferably track pants, leggings, shimmery tops or embroidered T-shirts with sneakers. For the guys, anything casual
 
 
 Eat light before hitting the dance floor
 Carry an extra T-shirt if you don’t like the sweaty look
 The party cover charges are low (between `200 and `500)
 Take frequent water breaks
 Make the best of the training workshops that precede the party
 
