LUDHIANA:  , the gangster who masterminded the kidnapping of a   in Ludhiana and even engaged police in a shootout in April 2016, was finally arrested by   and brought on a production warrant by Ludhiana police.

 Though event manager Robin Mittal, 29, was rescued the same day, police constable Daljeet Singh was injured in an exchange of fire with the kidnappers, identified as Amarbir Singh, alias Gopi; Baljinder Singh, alias Billa; Amarjeet Singh, alias Amru; and Gurpreet Singh alias Gora; and Gurparvesh, alias Bhesha.
 
 On April 11, Rabin along with cousin Aman Mittal was returning to his native city after attending a function on Ferozepur road in their car.
 
 When they had reached near Bharat Nagar Chowk, a Swift car stopped in front of their Verna. The accused got down and kidnapped Robin at gunpoint and also took away his car towards Mullanpur area. They also took away Rs 26,000 from Aman.
 
 After reaching near Mullanpur Dhakha, the kidnappers called Aman and asked him to pay Rs 5 lakh ransom to rescue Robin. However, Aman sounded police which planned a trap for kidnappers. Cops not only rescued Robin, but also managed to nab one of the kidnappers Amarbir Singh alias Gopi. Later, three more accused were arrested in the case.
 
 An FIR was lodged by division number 5 police under Section 301 (attempt to murder), 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder) and 506 (criminal intimidation) and another FIR was registered by Dhakha police under Section 397 (Robbery or docoity with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt).
 
 Inspector Vinod Kumar, SHO, division number 5 police station, said, “Bhesha was arrested by Amritsar police and we brought him on a production warrant on Saturday and marked his arrest in the case.”
 
 
 
 
 The gangsters had asked for Rs 5 lakh ransom from Robin’s cousin. They asked him to come near Hotel Maharaja Grand on Ferozepur road around 4:30am, where Aman and police officials including then ADCP-I Joginder Singh, ACP (North) Ramneesh Chaudhary, were already waiting for them. As soon as the miscreants were walking towards their car after taking the money from Aman, then ACP Chaudhary nabbed Gopi following which his accomplice started firing at the police. During this encounter, a head constable suffered injuries.
 
 
