HYDERABAD: If you are planning to adopt a pedigree dog from a   make sure your pup is registered with the government. 

 Days after the Union ministry of environment, forest & climate change (MoEFCC) published draft rules to regulate dog breeding in the country, veterinary doctors and animal rights activists say thousands of dogs in the city are being bred illegally in deplorable conditions without proper medical care.
 
 While the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Dog Breeding and Marketing Rules, 2017) say breeding, owning or housing of dogs and pups without registration is prohibited, pet shop owners seem least bothered. 
 
 The owner of a registered pet shop at Narayanguda, Vijay, breeds pedigree dogs at his house, but speaks about how rampant the practice of selling unregistered dogs is. He sells up to 15 puppies a month some of other owners. “We help dog owners sell their puppies. It is up to the buyer whether he wants registration or not because it's a pain for both parties. A pure breed labrador costs nearly Rs 20,000. But customers are not willing to pay so much. So they end up buying directly from dog owners for just Rs 4,000, ” he said.
 
 Dr Kadambari, a renowned vet in the city explained the problems that could result from improper breeding. He said that inbreeding of pedigree dogs is a major issue with many puppies born with hip dysplasia, heart diseases and epilepsy which are difficult to identify. Many people also end up buying under-aged pups which have low disease resistance. “It should be made mandatory for pedigree dog owners to obtain a special breeders licence if they want to breed their dogs,” Dr Kadambari said.
 
 Animal rights activists blame the lack of awareness among dog owners, pet shop owners and also veterinarians to an extent for the mounting number of   in the city.
 
 Dr Jeevana Jyothi, assistant director of government super speciality veterinary hospital, Narayanaguda, said that there is a dire need to create awareness. “We don’t get to interact with the dog owners unless they bring their pets to the hospital. It has become difficult to monitor the dog's vaccination as most owners lose interest in their pets after a few months of adoption. There should be stronger enforcement of rules.” 
 
  and People for Animals welcomed the Centre’s draft rules. “We are delighted with this new draft notification that will end the irregular practice of this infamous industry,”  , trustee at   and government liaison for HSI/India, said.
 
