Panaji: High-ranking officials from Sport Lisboa e Benfica, Portugal’s most successful and popular club, are expected in   next month to stitch a technical partnership with  , the Goan franchise in the Indian Super League ( ).

 FC Goa president Akshay Tandon along with other club officials recently visited several clubs in Europe and were most impressed with the Benfica model. Tandon visited the club stadium, training ground, besides the successful academy and was particularly impressed with the Portuguese club’s record of producing some fine players, almost all of whom are signed up by top clubs in Europe.
 
 Last season, Portuguese wonderkid Renato Sanches moved to Bayern Munich after the Euro 2016 triumph, while Andre Gomes (Barcelona), Bernardo Silva (Monaco) and Ivan Cavaleiro (Wolverhampton Wanderers) were all involved in high-profile moves from Benfica.
 
 “We are in talks with a few clubs from Europe and Benfica is one of them. The conversations are at a preliminary stage, so it is premature to comment any further. But we look forward to engaging in more meaningful discussions over the upcoming months,” said FC Goa president.
 
 Club president Luis Filipe Vieira and CEO Lorenzo Pereira are understood to have shown interest in making the trip to Goa. 
 
 Besides, Benfica, FC Goa officials also had talks with Manchester City and Athletic Bilbao in Spain but it’s the Benfica model that remains the most attractive. “Benfica makes more money from player development than they make from club operations. Just last season, they sold players worth almost 140million Euros, all under the age of 22 and all products of their successful youth development programme.
 
 “This is encouraging and inspiring. One of the conditions we have laid down for any potential partnership that we may do with a European club, and we have spoken to a few, is that they must invest in youth development with us,” a club source, privy to discussions between the two clubs, told TOI.
 
 Goa, ruled by the Portuguese for 450 years, continues to maintain a strong bond with their colonial rulers. Benfica visited Goa in 1959 and played three friendlies here. They played military winning 2-1 and then a Goa selection team twice, winning 4-0 and 1-0.
 
 
