HYDERABAD: Charmee's 'bold act' in moving Hyderabad high court in the drugs case has evoked mixed reaction from Tollywood. While every Tollywood personality summoned by excise department is queuing up at SIT office, 30-year-old Charmee said the procedure was unacceptable for her. 

 "If Charmee feels her privacy is being violated, she did the right thing by approaching high court on the method of questioning," actress Jeevitha told TOI. "It is a brave decision taken by her. She is not saying she will not cooperate in the investigation, but expressed objections to the manner in which it is being done. She has done the right thing," she said. 
 
 What is now being discussed in hushed tones in the film industry is if Charmee went to high court, why did director Puri Jagannadh not do that? When Puri presented himself before excise officials in connection with the drugs case, 5 ml blood sample in three test tubes, 50 strands of hair and finger nails from the hands and toes were collected by doctors of Osmania General Hospital. These samples were to be sent to forensic laboratory to detect presence of narcotic substances.With Puri himself not objecting to collection of samples, Charmee's refusal has raised eyebrows.
 
 Well-known character actor and advocate C V L Narasimha Rao, however, felt there was no need for Charmee to have approached court. CVL who is also the president of Movie Artistes Association of Telangana, said excise officials could approach a magistrate to order Charmee to allow collection of samples.
 
 "In fact, Charmee should be more than willing to allow collection of the sample. That will help her get a clean chit if she is not guilty of anything that she is being accused of," C V L Narasimha Rao said.
 
 Charmee, who has acted in 55 films since her debut in Tollywood in 2002, has been seen in Hindi, Kannada, Tamil and Malayalam films too.
 
 Her move to move high court against the manner in which investigation was being carried out in the drugs case has also sent a message to the Telugu film industry bigwigs that she cannot be taken for granted.
 
 The Movie Artistes Association (MAA) had specifically asked artistes who received notices to fully cooperate with the investigating officials. The Telugu Film Chamber of Commerce had also directed that there should be no resistance to the investigation. Charmee, however, is treading her own path.
 
