ITANAGAR: NDA presidential candidate   said the President's post is above politics and that his effort will be to take every state in the country towards prosperity. Addressing BJP legislators of the state on Thursday, Kovind said, "A president never belongs to any party. All people, irrespective of caste, creed, religion, state, are equal. Vote bank is not important for me but development matters." 

 Kovind arrived in the city on Thursday morning for a day-long visit to garner support from the state MLAs. He was accompanied by Union minister for rural development and panchayat raj Narendra Singh Tomar, minister of state for home Kiren Rijiju, BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav, Lok Sabha MP Ram Vichar Nittam and North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) convenor  .
 
 Saying his mantra for development will be equality among states, Kovind told the lawmakers, "I need your support to fulfil my dream of a developed India and I assure you that I will uphold the sanctity of the President's post with utmost sincerity."
 
 Appreciating the people of the state for their Hindi-speaking skills, Kovind said, "I feel like I am with people from my home state Uttar Pradesh.   can be a small state for others, but for me it is as important as UP and other states of the country." Kovind said the isolation that the people from the northeast feel has been removed after NDA came to power at the Centre.
 
 Kovind also convened a separate meeting with the nine legislators of People's Party of Arunachal (PPA), a constituent partner of NEDA, where the MLAs extended their support to him.
 
 Chief minister Pema Khandu said though the vote value for Arunachal is eight against one in comparison to UP's 208 against one, all the state's legislators will give their backing to Kovind. Lauding him for beginning his visit from Arunachal, Khandu urged on more focus on the state because of its strategic location in respect to China, Myanmar and Bhutan.
 
 Tomar said many political parties who are not with NDA are also supporting Kovind's candidature. Rijiju pointed out that this is the first time that a presidential candidate has visited Arunachal instead of Guwahati. Elaborating on the voting procedure, Madhav urged the legislators to ensure their presence in the state capital on the voting day.
 
 BJP's in-charge of Tripura Sunil Deodhar said, "Number of MPs, MLAs from different political parties those who are part of NDA have gathered here to show their support to him (Kovind). Also six   MLAs and one MLA of Indian National Congress of Tripura are here to show solidarity with this great personality."
 
 
