BHOPAL: In the run up to assembly elections slated for 2018,   chief minister   has asserted that government will ensure compliance of a zero tolerance policy against corruption and irregularity in each government department. Not only the bureaucrats, but ministers will also be equally responsible for any lapses. 

 Though Chouhan's statement has taken many of his cabinet colleagues by surprise, no one has openly contradicted the remark.
 
 "As we plan advance for the year 2017, we ensure to do away with corruption in every department and in case there are complaints, the department minister will also be held responsible," said Chouhan in a joint meeting of senior officials of all departments during discussion on priorities for the year 2017. Chouhan asserted government would focus on good governance and public welfare in the new year and corruption will not be tolerated at any cost. He said the government will plan development through its 'Vision Document 2018' and 'Declaration 2013' and every department has been instructed to review the activities before finalising the priorities for the new year.
 
 Chief minister also focused on beneficiary schemes apart from public services like 'CM Helpline 181' and cautioned the officials to ensure seamless service through CM Helpline and 'Lok Sewa Guarantee Act' (public service guarantee act).
 
 Both CM Helpline and Lok Sawa Guarantee are important tools for good governance and strict action will be taken if any of the official is found negligent in the implementation of the schemes," warned Chouhan.
 
 As the chief minister played tough, officials and ministers got a clear message that 2017 will bear the impact of 2018 assembly elections.Some ministers, mainly those from anti-Shivraj camp, did not react to the open message. Some others tried to pass the liability on to the bureaucracy.State higher education and public grievance redressal minister Jaibhan Singh Pavaiyya said a minister is a representative of the department and he strongly believes in transparency in official matters. A minister and administration both are a part of the government.
 
 
