Chennai: In a deal announced on Monday, the Delhi-head-quartered automotive major Motherson Sumi Systems Ltd (MSSL) acquired Finland-based global auto component major PKC Group Plc for approximately Euro 571 million (Rs 4,100 crore), an acquisition that will make the company the market leader in wiring harness for the heavy duty commercial vehicle market in North America and Europe. The deal has been funded by the QIP raised by the company in 2016 as well as internal accruals and,has been backed by the group's regular consortium of banks including SBI, Bank of Tokyo, HSBC, HDFC, ICICI among others.PKC is also quite debt light — as on December 31, 2016 the Finnish company had around Euro 47 million debt on a turnover of Euro 846 million.Shareholders of PKC, were offered Euro 23.55 per share in tender offer and MSSL has already acquired 93.75% shareholding in PKC with the Finnish laws kicking in to squeeze the remaining stake in the next 2 weeks. 

 Detailing the deal and the way forward, MSSL chairman Vivek Chaand Sehgal told TOI the focus was on bottomline. Excerpts: 
 
 You have had an aggressive M&A drive but do you have a debt cut off so that MSSL does not over-leverage itself in search of acquisitions?
 
 As we speak we are debt free. We don't exceed debt being 1-1.5 times our EBIDTA and never in our history have we gone beyond 2-2.5 times our EBIDTA. Whenever we need money, we can raise it and we are focussed on our bottomline and debt. We will always be very careful about that. We had a QIP last year and we raised Rs 1,993 crore. Our internal accruals are very strong and if they (PKC) have to borrow something they will do so. There is still around 5-6% stake outstanding so we will keep the deal open for another 2 weeks but under Finnish laws there is automatic squeeze out once you acquire more than 90% stake.
 
 Around 11 big acquisitions in less than 10 years, how important is M&A for MSSL’s growth strategy?
 
 We actually have three engines of growth. The first option is to see if we can do it ourselves; the second is to opt for a joint venture in a particular geography and the third is to go for an acquisition. We have significant in-house competence — 7 tool rooms and 12 design centres globally. But we respond to what the customer wants. If the customer wants us to sign up a JV we do. We have 28 joint venture partners across 37 joint ventures. But when the customer wants us to acquire a particular company, we go for that. So far we have had 18 acquisitions.
 
 In the past 4-5 years, MSSL has been picking up several M&A targets in Germany. Are you consciously growing your European footprint?
 
 Yes we have had a couple of German takeovers but the latest deal is in Finland. We don’t choose deals, we follow what our customers tell us. Currently around 40-45% of our sales are from Europe, 15-16% from the US, 12% from India and the rest is from Asia including China, Japan and Korea. We also have around 1.5% of our sales coming from South America.
 
 The jump from $9 billion to $18 billion by 2020 is an aggressive target.
 
 This number has been given to our stakeholders, our associates, our collaborators, our bankers and our customers so that they know the appetite we have. We have seen an average annualised growth of 40% over the last ten years and I see tremendous growth potential going ahead.
 
 
