AHMEDABAD: Even though   chief General Bipin Rawat has advised soldiers to come directly to him rather than voice complaints on  , the online medium has become a favoured complaint-box for those posted on the border.

 After constable Tej Bahadur Singh’s video of burnt rotis and watery dal being served to   jawans on the border went viral, another BSF jawan posted in Gandhidham, Kutch, has uploaded a video on social media complaining of rampant corruption in the   (BSF).
 
 “Money earmarked for the mess is also not spared. If we complain, there is only a one-sided inquiry. In 150 Battalion, liquor bought using the money collected for jawans is sold to outsiders,” alleged the BSF jawan, identified as Navchetan Chaudhary, in the video. 
 
 “I want to ask the PM when will this corruption end. My DG says that secret complaint are acted upon. However, I have made several complaints but only got transferred frequently,” the head constable claimed. 
 
 BSF officials said Chaudhary has done his Master of Arts and serves as a head constable- ministerial (clerk) in the BSF at Gandhidham. He was posted at Gandhidham a year ago and is currently on leave in Bikaner.
 
 “The jawan has never been deployed on the border and is finding fault with everything since his posting in Gujarat, about a year ago,” said a senior BSF official.
 
 “We ordered an inquiry into his allegations. He has also been called back from leave to substantiate his allegations with evidence. An inquiry against the jawan is also pending for his fault-finding attitude and escaping of responsibilities,” said the senior BSF official. The BSF official further said that there seems to be conspiracy to defame the force. “We have an online redressal facility. The jawan should have used it or approached senior officers at the frontier HQ where we discuss issues and problems on Mondays and Fridays,” he added.
 
 BSF officials said this is gross indiscipline and the BSF Act does not permit the way jawan has acted. 
 
 “He has crossed all levels. He should have approached his sub-inspector or the DIG or should have directly approached the director general through the proper channel,” added a senior BSF official.
 
 
