With ‘greenery’ declared the   2017, here’s how to work the hue in your personal style.
 
  Bid goodbye to last year’s soft and soothing rose quartz and serenity, and embrace the vivacious greenery. When we say greenery, we aren’t talking about the environment or vegetation, but the Colour Of The Year 2017. Yes, Pantone Color Institute, the global colour authority, has unveiled the yellowy-green shade that embodies a cup of early morning matcha tea and encourages reconnection with nature.
  
  
 
  In terms of fashion, greenery signifies fresh looks and environment friendly lines, crafted out of recycled and organic materials. “Greenery is a perky colour, but somehow it has always taken a backseat in fashion, with blues and reds being a lot more prominent,” says designer Payal Singhal. From horticultural-themed jumpsuits and floral dresses to asymmetrical cut-out trouser suits and bohemian kaftans, greenery is already enjoying a moment on the runways, strutting in the most stylish avatars at Gucci, Kenzo, Balenciaga, Michael Kors, Louis Vuitton and more.
  
  
 
  It isn’t as easy to incorporate the brave and vibrant colour in your everyday wardrobe. “Green is a tricky colour to carry. Also, not everyone is fond of this shade which is pretty close to parrot green. The idea is to sport it in the right dosage so that you don’t end up looking like a vegetable,” says designer Aniket Satam. While greenery seems like a colour that you embrace during spring and summer, it can certainly be worn throughout the year provided you style it well and team it with the right colours. “I strongly feel it is a lovely colour for Indian wear as we aren’t afraid of bright colours. People with darker skin tones must pair it with light colours like white and cool blue. Sport it in solid-coloured outfits for a show-stopping statement,” says Singhal.
  
  
 
  
  
 
  A stark green make-up palette may not be a good idea, but this shade of green can certainly add a punch of colour to your hair, lips, eyes and nails, if used correctly. Begin with adding a streak of eyeliner in green for a fun summer getaway or experiment with matte green nails.
  
  
 
  Accessory addicts can go for a green tote or clutch bag in faux leather. A pair of modish green stilettos is equally attractive. Invest in faux emerald earrings to wear
  the trend.
  
  
 
  Thank the fashion gurus who introduced colour blocking. When wearing greenery, it is sure to come to your rescue. To balance the look, block zesty green with bold shades like blue, canary yellow, chilli red or fuschia. The youthful shade also goes well with candy colours and sophisticated neutrals.
  
  
 
  If you are not a fan of colour blocking, pick different tones of the same colour and bring together clashing textures like matte with glossy, knits with silk, leather with wool. It gives a much-needed visual break. The key: stick to one colour family.
  
  
 
  Green looks luminous in everything from heritage handlooms like patola and bandhani to fabrics like raw silk and chanderi. If you don’t want to go all-over green, wear a stole/dupatta in this shade and mix it with colours like turmeric, purple and maroon. For a boho vibe, pair green with white and black.
  
  
 
  Channel your inner tropical diva by sporting bold, photographic foliage prints. Let neutral accessories with hintsof green pull the look together.
  
  
  If you are bottom heavy, avoid patterns below the waist or stick to ones that don’t exaggerate your hips. 
