GURUGRAM: The proposed alternate route to connect   (SPR) with NH-8, bypassing the   toll plaza, will become a reality soon. Along with some private developers, Huda is going to start construction work on the project in a few weeks, with road construction work expected to be completed over the next 2-3 months. At present,   meets   around a kilometre ahead of Kherki Daula. Under the plan, the new route will start from the road dividing sectors 75 and 75A, and meet NH-8 near Sector 83, via the road diving sectors 77 and 78, and passing through master roads of sectors 76 and 77. Once this road is completed, commuters from Golf Course Road and Faridabad can directly reach Manesar through SPR, without needing to cross the busy Kherki toll plaza.

 This will also be an alternate route between Gurgaon and Manesar, offering better connectivity for commuters from the Faridabad side can to reach Manesar without using the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway. The road is expected to significantly reduce congestion on the expressway, while incentivising commuters to avoid the toll plaza. It will also benefit real estate projects coming up along SPR, many of which are expected to be completed by June.
 
 Along with the sector 68-80 road, this road will be built by a private developer under Huda supervision. As per plan, the amount spent by the private developer to build the road will be adjusted by the state government against pending external development charges (EDC) of the developer.
 
 TOI has reported on the proposed alternate route on January 24, 2017, which was in the pipeline for eight months, but delayed by litigation related to land acquisition and unavailability of funds. “Huda has taken possession of the land and developers have come forward to build the road against their pending EDCs,” said a senior Huda official.
 
 At present, Gurgaon is connected to Manesar’s industrial areas solely through NH-8. Increasing traffic on Kherki Daula toll plaza has become a major concern for these industrial units. For a long time, people have been demanding the removal of the toll plaza. At February’s Happening Haryana global investors’ summit, industrialists too flagged their concern about delay in reaching Manesar from Gurgaon due to the toll plaza.
 
 “The new route will reduce travel time, as new Gurgaon residents can directly go to Manesar without crossing the toll plaza,” said Sector 67 resident Pradeep Sharma.
 
 
