IMPHAL: The issue of ‘extra-judicial killings’ has suddenly taken centrestage in poll-bound   after the CBI reopened a case of ‘fake encounter’ killing involving reformed militant   and  , a pregnant woman. 

 Sanjit and Rabina were killed by police commandoes in Imphal’s crowded BT Road in July, 2009. Thounaojam Herojit, a police constable who shot dead Sanjit, had earlier claimed that he had executed the order given by additional SP (Imphal West) Akoijam Jhalajit Singh.
 
 With the CBI reopening the case, the Okram Ibobi Singh-led Congress government finds itself on sticky wicket as the assembly polls are only a fortnight away. Jhalajit, who is believed to have ordered the killing, has obtained an interim anticipatory bail from the district and sessions court, Imphal West, on Thursday.
 
 Jhalajit applied for anticipatory bail fearing arrest by the CBI as he has been summoned by the central investigating agency at its New Delhi headquarters on Friday. The district and sessions court has granted him interim anticipatory bail till March 2. Jhalajit, now serving as the commandant of the second battalion of IRB, may visit New Delhi in the next couple of days.
 
 The CBI reopened the case following an appeal made by Sanjit’s mother Taratombi Devi in view of the disclosure made by Herojit. 
 
 BJP was quick to grasp the issue with Union human resource development minister   saying that ‘those who ordered the shooting of Sanjit are seeking anticipatory bail.’ Now, the saffron party is campaigning against all 1,528 cases of extra-judicial killings, most of which took place during 15 years of Congress regime under Okram. “Who is behind all these fake encounters. The Congress government,” said Javadekar. He added that a three-member team of BJP MPs, led by him, had inquired into Sanjit’s killing and submitted a report to the party saying that it was a  .
 
 “In 2009, I had personally visited Sanjit’s house and saw the anger on the faces of people. Now, after two days of questioning by the CBI, the officers who went on a killing spree are seeking bail,” he said. The minister hoped that justice will be done in this case.
 
 The ‘extra-judicial’ killings and misuse of the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) are the issues for which people of Manipur have been protesting for a long time. Irom Sharmila Chanu, who is now contesting polls against chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh, had launched a crusade against AFSPA by fasting for 16 years. “I have entered the electoral fray to repeal AFSPA and end all fake encounters. I understand the pain of those who lost their near and dear ones because of extra-judicial killings,” said Sharmila. 
 
 Though human rights issues were raised by opposition parties during the last election in 2012, Congress somehow managed to counter them. The BJP is, however, trying to rake up the issue this time.
 
 The Supreme Court had taken up a petition on 1,528 fake encounter cases in Manipur from 1979 to 2012. The petitions were filed by an NGO, Extra Judicial Execution Victims’ Families Manipur (EEVFAM), and rights’ activist Suresh Singh. In January, 2013 the apex court had appointed a three-member commission to probe whether six cases picked up randomly from among the 1,528 cases were ‘encounter’ deaths where security forces had fired in self-defence against members of armed groups or extra-judicial executions. The committee found all six cases to be fake encounters.
 
 Hearing the petitions in July, 2016, the Supreme Court maintained that the armed forces cannot use excessive force and that the Army can conduct its own inquiries into accusations of extra- judicial killings till the court examines them. The apex court had also asked the amicus curiae to furnish details of alleged fake encounter cases in Manipur.
 
 
