HYDERABAD: Was  ,  , murdered to a plan or was he caught in a situation where he ended up as a victim? The incident has sent shock waves among the Indian community in  . Talking to TOI, Milpitas police said the case was being investigated by a particular officer. “We will get through to the investigating officer and see if we can provide you with more details,“ a woman official said.
“It was definitely shocking,“ said  , a tenant of   where the murder took place on night of February 10. Khola, who spoke to a television channel wondered how the murder could have taken place. One suspicion is that Vamsi could have tried to prevent the stealing of car by the culprit. Vamsi Reddy Mamidala may have been trying to intervene in a carjacking attempted by the culprit.The culprit had tried to steal the car of a woman pointing two guns at her and was demanding the keys of the car.
 
 Initially, when the police arrived on the scene, they were unwilling to even give out the identity of the victim to anyone. A thoroughly shaken Indian student Pradeep Nara said: “We are not sure whether it is my friend. We would like to know from the California police about the victim's identity.“
 
 Lt Raj Maharaj of Milpitas police said they were at the spot where the incident took place ­ Ilara Apartments ­ which has a multilevel park ing lot. The parking lot is gated, the police said.
 
 Investigating authorities are now wondering how the culprit could have gotten into the premises. The only way he could have slipped into the parking garage of the apartments was when it was opened without being noticed.
 
 Ilara Apartments where Mamidala was supposedly working boasts of a gated parking garage in the list of community amenities it has provided. It has got a resortstyle pool and spa with sundeck, and conference rooms.It provides studio, one and two bed-room floor plans.
 
 Visuals show that the culprit was allegedly driving away the car which crashed and that is when the chasing police could catch him.
 
