HYDERABAD: The   is set to get better equipped as the   converted to a   was successfully test-fired from launch complex-III, ITR, Chandipur on Thursday.

 The Research Centre Imarat (RCI) Hyderabad of the Defence Research and Development Organisation ( ) developed the navigation system for the Guided Pinaka.
 
 An armed forces team witnessed the flight test. G Satheesh Reddy, scientific adviser to the defence minister was present during the test firing.
 
 “The Pinaka rocket Mark-II, which evolved from Pinaka Mark-I is equipped with a navigation, guidance and control kit and has been transformed to a Guided Pinaka. This conversion has considerably enhanced the range and accuracy of Pinaka,” according to defence officials.
 
 The test-firing on Thursday met all mission objectives. The radars, electro-optical and telemetry systems at Chandipur tracked and monitored the vehicle all through the flight-path. The Guided Pinaka is developed jointly by ARDE Pune, RCI Hyderabad and DRDL Hyderabad. ITR Chandipur provided the range and launch support.
 
 K M Rajan, director ARDE, Pune, B H V S Narayana Murthy, director, RCI, Hyderabad, B K Das, director, ITR, Chandipur and R Appavuraj, director, PXE, Chandipur monitored the launch operations.
 
 Defence minister   congratulated the DRDO, industry and the armed forces for the successful flight-test. P K Mehta, DG (ACE) and S Christopher, secretary, department of defence R & D and chairman, DRDO, also congratulated all the teams that participated in the successful test firing.
 
 The army has two Pinaka regiments already. The range of the Pinaka multiple launch rocket System developed by DRDO has a range of 40km for Mark-1. The Mark-11 Pinaka has a range of 65km.
 
 The ministry of defence will spend Rs 3,306 cr on adding two more Pinaka regiments. The Pinaka rocket are being manufactured by Tatas and L & T. The Pinaka system is mounted on a truck.
 
 From this system, 12 rockets with highly explosive material can be fired in a span of just 44 seconds. 
 
