After his recent twoday visit to Ahmedabad with Japanese PM   for the Indo Japan Annual Summit and launch of the high-speed bullet train, PM   will visit home state Gujarat again on Sunday, which is his birthday. The PM, who will be at Kevadia in Narmada district to inaugurate   on Sunday, is also expected to visit his mother Hiraba in   to seek her blessings.

 There was also a strong buzz around Modi visiting hometown Vadnagar where a number of development works and infrastructure projects have been flagged off to be completed this year including a Rs 9-crore ‘face-lift’ of the Vadnagar railway station. However, there has been no official confirmation of the same. Almost 56 years after the foundation stone for the dam was laid by the then PM  , it will be inaugurated on September 17.
 
 Chief minister Vijay Rupani had earlier told mediapersons that with the inauguration of the   Dam, over 18 lakh hectares of land in the state would be benefitted with irrigation as Narmada water will flow to over 9,000 villages of Gujarat through a canal network. “It is the best gift for him on his birthday, as he has worked tirelessly for the dam to bring water in the parched areas of the State,” Rupani had said.
 
 The Narmada Control Authority had ordered the gates of the   be shut on June 16. After closure of the gates the following day the height of the dam was increased to 138 metres, with storage capacity raised to 4.73 million cubic metres (MCM) from the existing 1.27 million cubic metres. Earlier, the height of the dam was 121.92 metres. Explaining the characteristics of the Sardar Sarovar project, a senior official associated with it said it is the biggest dam in terms of volume of concrete used in it. “It is the second biggest dam in the world after the Grand Coulee Dam in the United States,” he said.
 
 The official said the 1.2-kmlong dam which is 163 metres deep has till date produced 4,141 crore units of electricity from its two power houses -- river bed powerhouse and canal head powerhouse. “The dam has earned over Rs 16,000 crore -- more than double the cost of its construction,” he said. Fifty-seven per cent of the electricity produced from the dam goes to Maharashtra, while Madhya Pradesh gets 27 per cent and 16 per cent is provided to Gujarat.
 
