NEW DELHI:   on Monday launched Sashakti, an initiative where girls would be trained in easy-to-learn-and-use self-defence techniques across the capital. Delhi Police aims to train over 1 lakh girls and women under the programme.

 The event, which was streamed live for people across the city, witnessed the participation of over 1,500 girls from more than 50 schools and colleges, mostly from the west district. The crowd cheered as a helium aerostat balloon, with the slogan ‘Surakshit Dilli’ was released in the air.
 
 The girls also had officers answering queries about cybercrime and giving them tips on online safety. Most questions were related to safety of content on   and WhatsApp.
 
 More than 20,000 girls, from various schools and colleges, have already been trained as a part of the programme in 2016. “We aim to train over 1 lakh girls and have to make sure that girls don’t feel vulnerable when they are travelling alone,” said joint commissioner of police (southwestern range)  .
 
 “The programme aims at not just sensitising females about the lurking dangers, but to overcome them with the help of self-defence training. We have also been instructing male students about POCSO and giving them training on how to help a woman, if she is in trouble,” said  , deputy commissioner of police (west).
 
 The event commenced with display of the defence techniques and ended with a street play, which depicted how youngsters should play safe and handle situations at times of emergency.
 
 “The programme was brought forth after consistent efforts made by Anita Roy, DCP III (west), who managed all the training sessions. Having been a student of self-defence herself, the officer was able to connect more with the students,” added Kumar.
 
 The target group, police said, were girls living in clusters who cannot afford proper training to adopt self-defence skills. The ones, who were trained, were later felicitated. The programme was concluded by an award ceremony, with prizes given to those who won accolades at events organised throughout the Delhi Police week.
 
