AHMEDABAD: The   was launched to rekindle investor interest in Gujarat, which had been battered by the 2002 riots. Since then, the summit has grown into one of India’s biggest business and networking events. Through its period of evolution, the summit made Gujarat a global brand and propelled the summit’s creator,   — who was the state’s chief minister when he conceived the idea — to the global stage as the country’s Prime Minister.

 Once termed a ‘tamasha’ (gimmick) by detractors, the flagship investment summit gradually began to be acclaimed for its scope. For instance, 110 countries and 25,000 delegates attended the summit in 2015; the numbers from the 2003 edition (the first) reveal the summit’s growing stature: 1,000 participants and 230 foreign delegates. Moreover, investment commitments have galloped from thousands of crores to lakhs of crores.
 
 The government says that the eighth edition — scheduled to take off from January 10, 2017 — is going to be even bigger as this platform will be used to "connect India to the world". Nobel laureates, presidents, prime ministers, and deputy prime ministers of different nations are scheduled to attend. They will rub shoulders with over three dozen CEOs of Fortune 500 companies.
 
 Those who have closely watched these summits believe that the business community’s endorsement of the Gujarat growth story resulted in the influx of domestic and foreign   and persuaded industries such as automobiles to make their first foray into the state. It helped Modi shed his Hindu hardliner image and become a development icon. The tone for Modi’s bigger role in national politics was set during these summits when corporate honchos such as Anil Ambani, Sunil Bharti Mittal, and   projected him as the future leader of the country. The event themes were changed accordingly.
 
 Economic and political benefits reaped through Vibrant Summits have made the formula go viral, as it were. Several states have emulated this model. West Bengal, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Odisha, Rajasthan, Punjab, and Tamil Nadu have organized such business summits.
 
 Many of these states did manage to attract investments, but their summits remain modest against Vibrant achievements of Gujarat. However, Gujarat continues to face questions about MoU conversions into actual investments. The government has countered the criticism by saying that 66% or 34,234 of the total 51,738 MoUs or investment intentions inked since 2003 have either been commissioned or are under implementation. Although the government has admitted that 14,165 projects have been dropped, investment realized in value terms has never been disclosed so far. 
 
 2003 | Re-establishing Gujarat as an investment destination
 
 The maiden summit was aimed at re-establishing Gujarat as a business destination, and treating the stains left on the state’s image by the 2002 post-Godhra riots. Pulled off with the help of local businessmen, the summit in September was intended to prove that the state was open for business again. A modest success with Rs 66,068 crore worth of investment pledged through 80 MoUs, it laid the foundation for building Brand Gujarat and helped an image makeover of then chief minister Narendra Modi. 
 
 2005 | Building on the initial success
 
 Buoyed by response from the business community, the CM worked harder to make the second edition of the summit better and bigger despite   terming it a ‘tamasha’. Senior ministers and bureaucrats were sent to different parts of the world to attract investments. Modi himself led some delegations abroad. Apart from NRIs, delegates from 20 countries gave a global touch to the summit. Investment commitments from MoUs crossed Rs 1 lakh crore. Energy, petrochemicals, ports and engineering sectors gained the most.
 
 2007 | Gujarat a place to be, megabucks flow in
 
 You are stupid, if you are not here" – the famous comment by then Tata group chairman,  , came as an endorsement to the ‘Gujarat Model’. The red carpet rolled out for the business community in the previous two editions resulted in an avalanche of investments at the third summit with investment commitments of a staggering Rs 4.65 lakh crore and employment hopes for 12.76 lakh people. Special Economic Zones (SEZs) attracted the highest investment. Industry doyens acknowledged the economic growth story of Gujarat setting the stage for the government’s development agenda ahead of state assembly elections.
 
 2009 | Modi for PM and Brand Gujarat
 
 With Tatas announcing relocation of their Nano plant to Gujarat and several countries reeling from economic recession, the fourth edition themed as "Growth engine of India" was an ideal platform to hardsell the state’s growth story. While mammoth investment commitments of over Rs12 lakh crore endorsed Brand Gujarat, the spotlight also lit up Brand Modi, as business tycoons like Anil Ambani and Sunil Bharti Mittal saw a future prime minister in the then CM. Their remarks went viral, as the general elections – with LK Advani as BJP’s prime ministerial candidate – were to be held soon after.
 
 2011 | Davos in Action: summit aims beyond investments
 
 Billed as ‘Davos in Action’, the summit, held at the newly built Mahatma Mandir in   saw Gujarat marketed as a ‘Global Business Hub’. The scope expanded from investment to inclusive growth. Global networking, knowledge and technology-sharing made their way into the summit’s focus areas. The floor was also opened to other states with Karnataka signing MoUs worth Rs 20,000 crore. Japan and Canada were partner countries. But the investment figure – Rs 20.83 lakh crore, stole the show.
 
 2013 | Triumphal feeling before ls polls
 
 Enthused by the third consecutive victory in assembly elections, this summit before general elections in 2014 was crucial for Modi. Investments were put on thebackburner. The summit took up larger issues such as forging strategic partnerships, youth, innovation and skill development in line with Modi’s national aspirations. A large number of foreign diplomats attended the event. Adani group chairman, Gautam Adani, wished Modi a bigger role as the next PM.
 
 2015 | from vibrant Gujarat to Vibrant India
 
 Brand Gujarat took a back seat with Narendra Modi inaugurating the event as Prime Minister of India after theBJP’s roaring success in 2014 general elections. The PM used the platform to make a strong ‘Make in India’ pitch to foreign delegates from 110 countries and global industry leaders at the CEO Conclave. He also promised to make the task of doing business in India the "easiest". However, industry honchos continued to commit investment, which reached a staggering Rs 25 lakh crore.
 
 Air show wins hearts
 
 Indian Air Force (IAF) pilots enthralled spectators with their prowess on Sunday as dress rehearsal for the Flying Display event was conducted over Swarnim Park at Sector 11 in Gandhinagar. The event took off as the Sukhoi Su-30MKI fighter jets flew in. They performed ‘tail slide’ and ‘Vertical Charlie’ manoeuvres. Soon after, Surya Kiran Formation Acrobatics took over the skies as they made several formations before signing off with famed India Formation. Paratroopers then descended from Mi-17V-5 helicopters right in front of the spectators
 
 Kite spectacle in the sky
 
 A total of 113 kitists from 32 countries and 50 from various Indian states displayed their skills with various types of kites at Sabarmati Riverfront on Sunday morning as Gujarat governor O P Kohli inaugurated the Patangotsav (kite festival) in the presence of Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani, cabinet ministers and AMC officials. There were several first-timers among countries participating in the festival. Thousands turned up at the riverfront to catch a glimpse of inflated kites, circular kites, box kites and kites of various shapes and sizes. 
 
 
