PUNE: There is   (tractors) in the   sector in the country than on the roads, according to  , managing director, Mahindra & Mahindra. He said his company has developed an “early prototype” for such a vehicle but there is still some way to go before it can be manufactured commercially.

 Speaking at the Symposium of International Automotive Technology (SIAT) in Pune, Goenka said, “Mahindra believes that the place for autonomous vehicles may not be on the roads but in the farms. We are presently working on tractors because are autonomous in nature in the farms, where there is no traffic.”
 
 The Mumbai-based automaker’s top boss clarified that for autonomous tractors to become viable, they would initially have to be subsidised. “Either the government will have to offer a subsidy or the original equipment manufacturer will have to chip in,” he said.
 
 Goenka said that even if the acquisition cost of such tractors was high, they would be a necessity and would pay back over a period of time. “It is becoming increasingly difficult to find farm labour. So if you replace labour with autonomous tractors, payback will happen,” he claimed.
 
 Goenka clarified that “autonomous” did not necessarily mean “driverless”. “The vehicles could be driver-assisted. The person in the tractor will not be driving it but only controlling some important functions,” he added.
 
 Goenka said that when autonomous vehicles are adopted on Indian roads, the taxi segment will be the first to deploy them and that might happen sooner than we think. 
 
 About 80% of farm-holdings in India belong to small and marginal famers — those owning less than two hectares of land. Small and marginal holdings together constitute about 85% in terms of number of operational holdings in the country. 
 
 Many experts, including Maruti Suzuki chairman R C Bhargava have said that self-driving cars won’t work in India because of the chaotic nature of traffic here. In a recent meeting with TOI,   director Rashmi Urdhwareshe said, “There is obviously an opportunity but what we will make of it remains to be seen. However, we must not deprive our population of the technology roadmap. Practically, a lot of steps have to be taken before this can come into practise.”
 
