BENGALURU: Bengaluru development minister K J George on Tuesday poured fuel into the raging controversy over what is believed to be his hobby horse: the   project proposed along the road to the  .

 “Lakhs of people, who commute on that route every day, understand the need for a bridge to ease traffic. However, only a few thousands have expressed opposition to the project. Some people, who own private jets and use the HAL airport to fly away, are behind this. They don’t understand the plight of regular commuters,” he told the media. 
 
 “We were all set to begin work, but could not because of the stay order issued by the court. I’m certain that the court will rule in our favour. Our opponents are spreading rumours, saying that the bridge will only help those going to the airport. In reality, it will ease traffic below the flyover as well. This would help local residents to commute without any hassles,” he claimed.
 
 Since the area around the airport is developing at a fast pace, the government is working on building alternate routes to the airport from Sarjapur Road, Tumakuru and Hoskote as well, he added. 
 
 
 
 
 An estimated 15,000 people can walk across the Outer Ring Road at  , without fear that they will be mowed down by any speeding vehicle, thanks to this a Rs 6.8-crore skywalk. 
 
 The skywalk, opposite the Embassy  , was funded by the Embassy group.
 
 “Our next project will be a flyover at a cost of Rs 70 crore outside the business park. We will build skywalks at our other parks, including the under-construction Embassy Tech Village,” Jitu Virwani, chairman and managing director, Embassy Group, said. 
 
 Agriculture minister Krishna Byre Gowda said no amount of infrastructure would be enough, if single passenger cars continued to be the norm. “We must must switch to carpooling,” he said. 
 
 
 
 
 BBMP commissioner Manjunath Prasad said the Palike will construct 85 skywalks around the city through public-private partnerships, with each being constructed at an approximate cost of Rs 2.5 crore. Interested private parties can take part in the bidding process; the highest bidder will be given advertisement rights for 30 years.
 
 
