Back in 2009, Whitney, a Chicago University student came to Jaipur for a trip and fell in love with an autorickshaw driver Harish, who showed her around the city. It wasn't a short-lived love story. Much to everybody's surprise, Harish married Whitney and moved to her country. This is just one interesting story out of many that caught the fancy of  , a popular YouTuber, who came to Jaipur recently to shoot one of his ' ' videos titled 'Jaipur on scoring a firangi.'

  In the video, Sahil visits tourist sites in the city and asks foreigners the qualities they are looking for in their partner, to understand what it takes to fall in love with a foreigner, marry her and move to her country to live with her!
 
  
  Sahil was dressed like a royal to woo Vera Zemtcova, a tourist from Russia, and was ecstatic to see her in a sari
 
 
 
 "Being Indian is a channel, which is for the youth and by the youth. We go to every city of India and talk to youngsters about them and their life. Whenever we would upload our videos, we got a lot of people commenting, 'Jaipur aao, Jaipur mein shoot karo'. Mujhe Jaipur aana toh tha, but I wanted to go a step ahead and not just talk to youngsters. I wanted to take up an interesting topic and talk about that. I had heard stories about Jaipur that how a rickshaw wallah got married to a foreigner and moved to her country. I had heard a similar story about a tour guide in Jaipur; he too got married to a foreigner and moved to her country. This gave me an idea to do a video where I'll try to understand how you get hitched to a foreigner in Jaipur," said Sahil, who shot the video at many places including City Palace, Hawa Mahal and  .
 
  
  A crew member shoots a video
 
 
 
  We saw Sahil talking to firang women and also men who had accompanied them. "A guy can give me a better idea as to how to woo a girl of his country. So if someone asks me how to patao an Indian girl, I can tell him to spread his arms like   and the girl will be impressed." he laughed. 
 
  
  Sahil talks to a Japanese couple near City Palace
 
 
 
  Though Sahil did try this tactic – spreading arms like Shah Rukh Khan – on a foreign girl from Australia who had come to see Jantar Mantar. And guess what? It worked!
 
  
  MATCH MY STEP: Sahil even shook a leg with a tourist at Jantar Mantar
 
 
 
  In Jaipur, Sahil and his team gorged on some local food too. "We had junglee maas and ghewar. Ghewar is so addictive," he said.
 
 
  
  Director Karl Katgara explaining a scene to Sahil at Jantar Mantar
 
 
 
 
  
  JT’s story about Sumit Verma’s arrest by Delhi Police
 
 
