NAGPUR: With just eight days left for   ( ) and local body polls in the region, poll material sales jumped 50% with a variety of new items to attract voters.

 However, like candidates, these traders too are facing stiff competition among themselves with new entrants in the business. While some traders have bought bulk material from Delhi, there are a few who are outsourcing it by passing on orders. Nagpur being centrally located, is a big market for other towns in Vidarbha where polls are around.
 
 There are at least 90 items like purses, paper and plastic badges, wristbands, pens, ribbons, caps, banners, dupattas, wooden bangles, torn, flags, cut-outs, bags, mobile covers, garden chairs, banners, air balloons to attract voters. This time, IPL balloon and garden chair are the new attraction. The price of poll material varies between Rs3 and Rs1,000 per piece. The prices of cutouts, posters, banners differ according to the size. Even visiting cards embossed with photographs of leaders are available.
 
 Nilesh Gandhi of Gandhi Associates, who has a permanent shop of poll material and is into the trade for 25 years, claimed that of the 90 items, 75% are manufactured in city.
 
 “We procure raw material like cloth and other material from Mumbai and Ahmedabad and assemble here. Manufacturing the materials here gives direct employment to over 1,000 poor and destitute families from city slums. These families earn at least Rs150-200 per day at least for six months. It also generates indirect employment to many raw material suppliers,” he adds.
 
 New entrant in the trade Rishikesh Khule of   says, “Sales have not picked up as expected. We sell material of national parties only and procure it from Delhi and sell in bulk here. As national parties supply material to candidates, they are not our direct customers. They approach when they fall short of material or want to attract voters with some fancy items.”
 
 However, some traders on condition of anonymity said even if candidates of national parties are considered, they spend lakhs on poll material. “The business runs into a few crores,” they said. 
 
 Asked about how these fancy poll items play a role to woo voters, Gandhi, who also acts as a political election planner, says, “For me my client is important. We don’t favour any particular political party. It is our business, so we have to remain unbiased and neutral. We never praise or criticize any leader or any political party in the presence of customers.”
 
 “In a city like Nagpur most of the voters are educated and poll material hardly matters, but in rural areas there is craze for such material. We design items in a way that it reaches the voters in short period. These days IPL balloons are doing the rounds.”
 
 Gandhi says the business has witnessed a sea change in last 25 years. “In Nagpur itself, new printing technology has invaded the market and things have gone digital. Even if sales have picked up, customer base has reduced,” he said.
 
 Mukund Khot, who has a printing unit, says, “The rise in poll material sales is temporary. One of the reasons for customer base going down is because fewer people attend poll rallies, hence less poll material is sold. Most of them buy from Delhi.” 
 
