NAGPUR: The ensuing   would witness many candidates with high qualifications like engineering degree and PhD, entering into the fray. Unfortunately, such qualified candidates are still in a minority while those, who somehow managed to clear the matriculation examination, still rules the roost.

 A cursory glance at their respective affidavits revealed that just one candidate — acquired PhD while one was having architecture degree and one MBA. A majority of them are just SSC and HSC passed, followed by the graduates and postgraduates. A woman candidate from Ward No 15, was having PhD degree, but she later withdrew her nomination. Ironically, over a dozen contestants, comes under the category of ‘illiterates’, as they had mentioned that they had never gone to school. They hail from all parties, including BJP and Congress, clearly indicating that education isn’t a criteria for the selection of candidates. 
 
 Among highly qualified candidates, Vijay Majrikar, contesting from Ward No. 16 on Congress ticket, acquired qualifications from the prestigious   (VNIT). Parineeta, wife of MLC Parinay Fuke, has got doctorate of philosophy (PhD) from Nagpur University in 2014, and she is contesting from Ward No. 13.
 
 Alka Dalal contesting from Ward No. 21, is having a postgraduate degree in arts while some like Varsha Shamkule from Ward No. 7 mentioned that she acquired triple postgraduate qualifications. Wasim Khan contesting from Ward No. 19 is an MBA from GH Raisoni College.
 
 Among some popular names, former corporator Pragati Pail, who recently joined BJP and was contesting from the Ward No. 14, is postgraduate from SB College in Aurangabad affiliated to Dr  . Ruling party leader in NMC Dayashankar Tiwari is also a postgraduate in arts from Vasantrao Naik Institute of Social Sciences (Formerly Morris College). 
 
 Among candidates who didn’t mentioned any qualifications in their affidavits are — Ratnamala Umaredkar — Ward No. 22, Parasram Sahu — Ward No. 25, Anita Mishra — Ward No. 12, Shakila Khan — Ward No. 14, Rajjan Chawariya — Ward No. 17, Halima Ashrafi — Ward No. 6, Aruna Bandaram — Ward No. 9, Usha Kothare — Ward No. 9, Yugal Kethele — Ward No. 20, Kavitabai Khandekar — Ward No. 4, and others. 
 
 A majority of candidates failed to properly fill up their educational qualifications column. Additionally, there are many discrepancies in the information submitted by them, particularly in the number of properties and assets. However, the   (SEC) didn’t scrutinize the affidavits and simply uploaded them. 
 
 State election commissioner JS Saharia told TOI that they would act only after someone lodged a complaints regarding discrepancies or wrong information filled up by the contestants.
 
 (With inputs from TOI freelancers)
 
 
