PANAJI: With funding running into crores of   for the   plan and the city already choking from problems of poor planning, stakeholders want the controversial new   plan (ODP) for the  

 After North Goa planning and development authority (NGPDA) proposed a new ODP for the city in December 2016, its prominent features with concepts of special settlement (SPS) and special commercial (SPC) zones were opposed as a fragmented approach to planning. 
 
 The ODP envisaged high rises with an increase in floor area ratio (FAR) of 200 from the earlier 100 for SPS zones in residential areas and more commercial carpet area of 300 in   instead of 200. 
 
 These ‘super buildings’ would change the city’s skyline unaesthetically while burdening the inadequate infrastructure, citizens had alleged.
 
 With a new government in place and plans of the AMRUT on track, architects, activists and others say the ODP needs to plug into the requirements of the Smart City initiative for improving the quality of citizens life.
 
 “The ODP framework and parameters of Smart City need to be on a same harmonized page with strategic emphasis on density and land uses in a structured manner,” architect Manguesh R Prabhugaonker, chairman, Indian Institute of Architects (IIA), Goa chapter said.
 
 Goa Bachao Abhiyan (GBA), has challenged the proposed ODP in court as buildings with 300 FAR on undersized plots of 500 sq m would mean 12-storey structures in a skyline dotted with five-storey buildings.
 
 “These proposals have missed out on essential services like access to fire brigade. Arbitrary zoning changes in a large area affects planning,” Sabina Martins, GBA convener said.
 
 Some agree that concepts of SPS and SPC zones can be considered as NGPDA seeks to address grievances of certain property owners, especially in conservation zones. “The methodology of identifying the blocks or clusters requires a holistic approach,” Prabhugaonker said.
 
 Sources said that the AMRUT scheme focusses on open spaces and core infrastructure elements in a Smart City stress on promoting mixed land use in area-based developments with protection of ecology. The NGPDA is considering implementation of the proposals but no meeting has taken place after elections, sources said.
 
