Noida: A   of robbers who used to steal   meant for construction purposes by installing electronic chips in weighing machines was busted in the city Monday. 

 The gang, who were active in  ,   and Faridabad for the past two years, worked in collusion with transporters.“The thieves, with the help of transporters, used to offload tonnes of iron in the middle of journey from the trucks transporting construction material to the builders. 
 
 They would then bribe the officials at Dharam Kanta (weighing machine meant for heavy vehicles) and install chips in the weighing scale. While normally the weighing scale would be set to zero tonne, they would set the scale at two tonnes or three tonnes depending on the magnitude of theft,” explained a police officer.
 
 Two gang members, identified as Asif and Tahir, and three truck drivers — Rizwan, Arif and Kushalpal Singh — were arrested from Gadhi Chaukhandi on Saturday around 2pm after cops received a call from a developer, Unnati Group.
 
 Three trucks, three electronic chips for calibrating the weighing scales, five remote controls to operate the chips, a keyboard, a computer, a drill machine, three printers and 26 connectors, and two cars — a Hyundai Accent and an i20 used by Asif and Tahir — have been seized by the police. The kingpins of the gang, identified as Vikas Nagar and Afsar, however, are still at large.
 
 On April 27, an official of the Rathi Steel Power and Company called up Unnati Group and informed the builder about the order (nearly 50 tonnes of iron rods) that was on its way. The two trucks ferrying the order, however, reached the Dharam Kanta, owned by the builder, in Sector 119 two days later on Saturday.
 
 “Sensing trouble, the builder instructed one of his trusted employees to weigh the trucks. As the trucks were being weighed, the employee got a call from Vikas Nagar who offered him a bribe of Rs 20,000 for allowing installation of chips in the weighing scale so that the theft could be hidden,” SP (City) Dinesh Yadav said. 
 
 The employee informed the officials concerned at Unnati group and he was instructed to call the police and stop the truck driver.
 
 Meanwhile, Asif and Tahir reached the spot to install the chips, said police. The duo was trying to hide a suspected theft of nearly seven tonnes of iron, according to police.“The security guards at the Dharam Kanta could not stop the truck drivers and gang members for too long. They left for Gadhi Chaukhandi where a third truck driver, Kushalpal Singh, was waiting for them. All three were arrested from there,” Phase III police station SHO Umed Singh said. 
 
 Following a complaint by Unnati group’s Shashank Pathak, an FIR has been filed at Phase 3 police under sections 420, 379 and 120 B of IPC. 
 
 
