COIMBATORE: Chief minister   on Saturday joined the league of his loyalists, who had been targeting 
  for making 
  . “One needs to understand that he is an actor and not a politician. 
  and we will give him a befitting reply,” the CM said joining the chorus with his cabinet members.

 The actor had raised allegations about corruption in the government and urged the public to report corrupt practices and deeds of AIADMK ministers through an online campaign.
 
 Asked about the second round of farmers’ protest in New Delhi, Palaniswami said it was their call and that the state government would not take any step to stop them. “They have petitioned the central government and sought waiver of loans taken from nationalised banks. They can protest. It is their wish,” he said.
 
 Talking about Kavundampalayam MLA V C Arukutty’s plans to leave the OPS camp and join the ruling faction, the chief minister said, “We will welcome him. 
  . We are all under one symbol and one party.”
 
 About measures taken to curb dengue, Palaniswami said the state government had been working on a war-footing to spread awareness about the disease and simple steps to keep away the virus among the public. “Efforts are on to eliminate the breeding grounds of mosquitoes,” he said.
 
 Referring to National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET), the CM said his ministry had been pressing the central government to exempt   from NEET.
 
 Palaniswami said work on the metro project has begun in the city and it would be completed at a fast pace. “Industrialists and the general public had been pitching for the metro project for a long time. Local minister SP Velumani also kept pushing for the project. We sanctioned it, as it was a necessity. And it will be implemented soon to ease the traffic congestion the city faces. We will get funding from a Japan company. The Chennai Metro Rail Corporation has started work on preparing its report,” he said.
 
 SP Velumani, meanwhile, said all the projects, including western ring road, Gandhipuram flyover, Athupalam flyover and multi-level car parking, announced by former chief minister the late J Jayalalithaa would be completed soon.
 
