BHUBANESWAR: Chief minister   on Saturday announced financial support for pregnant women from inaccessible areas where 108/102 ambulance or four-wheeler vehicles cannot reach. Each pregnant woman will be paid Rs 1000 transport cost to ensure institutional delivery under the Sishu Abong Matru Mrityuhara Purna Nirakarana Abhijan (SAMMPruNA ) scheme. An estimated Rs six crore per year will be spent on the scheme.

 “My government has planned several interventions to ensure accelerated reduction of infant mortality and maternal mortality in the state. In most health indicators   has done better than national average,” said Naveen.
 
 The scheme was launched in the wake of a series of incidents highlighting the plights of pregnant women in inaccessible areas reported from across the state. Around 7853 villages in 30 districts will be covered under the scheme, which is expected to benefit around 60,000 pregnant women a year.
 
 To encourage   (ASHA) workers, the CM also announced Asha Kalyan Yojana under which they will get a minimum monthly incentive of Rs 1000. He also announced one time honorarium of Rs 10,000 to serving ASHA workers on attaining 60 years and provision for compensation of Rs 1 lakh for death and also enhanced compensation for permanent disability up to Rs 1 lakh. A total Rs 56 crore will be spent on this per annum, official sources said.
 
 There are around 45,000 ASHAs working in the state. These trained female community health workers work in many remote vulnerable areas and left wing extremism affected districts. Each ASHA worker gets Rs 600 to ensure four ante-natal check-ups and for facilitating institutional delivery in rural areas and Rs 400 in urban areas.
 
 “The role of ASHA workers in reducing the infant and maternal mortality rates in the state is immense,” said health minister Pratap Jena.
 
 Naveen also launched NHM Employees Welfare Fund under which contractual employees engaged under the National Health Mission will get compensation up to Rs six lakh for death or permanent disability up to 80% and compensation of Rs 2.5 lakh for partial disability.
 
 To provide health care facilities for different blood related diseases like thalassaemia, sickle cell, 10-bedded day care centres will be set up at three District Headquarters Hospitals (DHH) including Balasore, Kandhamal and Rourkela. Similar facilities will be extended in other districts soon. These centres will act as primary unit for diagnosis, treatment, counselling and prevention of congenital blood diseases.
 
