MYSURU: When Congress poll managers were chalking out plans to launch the party's campaign for bypolls to Nanjangud and Gundlupet, they had approached Suttur mutt administration to check if Suttur mutt seer Shivaratri Deshikendra Swami would be available at the Mysuru branch of the mutt on March 12. 

 On Sunday, CM   and his ministerial colleagues met the seer at the mutt located on the foothills of Chamundi Hills. He took the party's prospective candidates   and Kalale Keshavmurthy with him and sought his blessings and headed straight to Gundlupet and launched the poll campaign. Later in the day, he checked into Nanjangud and sounded the poll bugle.
 
 State   chief B S Yeddyurappa headed straight to Grumallesha Dasoha mutt in Devanuru in the parched Kavlande hobli of Nanjangud taluk and started the road show. Accompanied by former ministers Shobha Karandlaje and B Sriramulu, the former CM toured the hinterland seeking votes for senior dalit leader  , the party candidate in Nanjangud.
 
 Given that Lingayats form the major chunk of the electorate in the two assembly constituencies, the CM and the former CM chose to visit the Veerashiva mutts before they started the campaign aimed at sending out a message. A day after the Uttar Pradesh voted decisively for the BJP, the two leaders took up the poll mantle and hit the road in the sweltering heat in arid plains of Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts.
 
 Siddaramaiah started the campaign starting from Gundlupet, where the Congress has good base -- of the six zilla panchayat segments, it has five in its kitty and is ruling the taluk panchayat and the Gundulpet local body. 
 
 During the APMC polls in January, it continued its winning streak even in the absence of late former minister H S Mahadeva Prasad. Given the party's performance, the Congress leaders asserted that the activists should get maximum lead to the party candidate Geetha.
 
  They asked votes in the name of former minister. "Regard this as the sixth time you are electing the former minister," they told the activists at the rally. The former minister had won five times in a row from three different parties. His death necessitated the bypoll in which the party is fielding Geetha seeking to get sympathy vote.
 
