BANKURA: The police on Sunday said they had been trying to trace at least three persons, two women and a man, who had been in touch with   and live-in partner   Sharma-in the last six years. 

 The development comes a day after TOI published a report stating the police have been looking for a woman from Bhopal's Arera Colony, believed to Das's former girlfriend. 
 
 "We have asked the police in Bhopal, Mumbai, Raipur and Delhi to look for these individuals. The first is a woman, originally from Bhopal and with a Delhi link. She studied with Das till Class V at St Joseph's Co-Ed School, Bhopal. She reconnected with him about six months ago through Facebook. Das had promised her a job with Unicef in the US in a similar fashion he offered to help out Sharma," said an investigating officer from Bankura Sardar police station.
 
 Though the cops have managed to get the woman's contact details, they could not reach her. "We have forwarded the details to Bhopal police," he said. 
 
 During interrogation, Das claimed the woman visited his Saketnagar home in Bhopal after Sharma's death on July 15. He added he watched 'Kaabil' with her and her mother at a local theatre. We are checking the veracity of the claims," said a police source.
 
 The second person cops are looking for is a woman from Arera Colony in Bhopal who Das claims is his former girlfriend. He has not been answering any queries about her even though the investigators showed him intimate photos of the duo stored in his laptop. However, he told cops she was the daughter of his mother's friend and colleague. 
 
 The third is Vikas Singh, a resident of Patna's PC Colony in Kankarbad. He is a former employee of ONGC, Mehsana, who recently settled down in Mumbai. Das claimed Akansha had an affair with Singh. "We do not have more details on it now," said an officer. 
 
  Bankura SP Sukhendu Hira confirmed the passports of Das's parents were fake.
 
  "He told the officials of Central Bank's Byron Bazar branch in Raipur that his mother was settled in the US and it was not possible for her to physically collect her monthly pension of Rs 28,000. When the bank asked for documents, he submitted a fake passport and false papers from the US Embassy," said Hira. 
 
 Apparently, Das had procured Indrani's fake death certificate from Itarsi near Bhopal to sell off her Raipur house.
 
 
