BENGALURU:   has become a hub for “resort politics” of all hues with hardly any indirect election in the state and of late, in the country, not seeking the herding of elected representatives in one location till the polling is done.
 
  It has become so common that the hosting of 44   MLAs from   in a resort near Bengaluru has hardly drawn comment from citizens in the state.
  
  Be it Bengaluru city corporation or  , anytime elected representatives have to vote together, they have been put into resorts and treated like sheep who have to follow the orders of their masters. It was first done in 1984, when the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh legislators were brought to Bengaluru by the legendary  . Rao had to face a trust vote and for one month, his friend then Karnataka chief minister Ramakrishna Hegde accommodated the legislators at a resort in Devanahalli.
  
  Later, Congress CM   of Maharashtra packed his MLAs off to Bengaluru in 2002, till he won his trust vote.
  
  Such actions were, however, sporadic till 2004, when Karnataka’s own political parties began herding their MLAs into resorts for meetings, decision making and ”to keep the flock together” ahead of any indirect election.
  
  The 2004 state elections threw up a hung house, with BJP getting 90 seats, Congress 65 and the JD(S) 58 in the 224-member assembly. All JD(S) members were quickly taken to a resort on the outskirts of Bengaluru, while the leaders did parleys with Congress to form Karnataka’s first coalition government.
  
  Only after decisions were made, were they allowed out to vote in the assembly on the CM/DyCM candidates.
  
  The same happened in 2006, when JD(S) under H D Kumaraswamy decided to go with the BJP and ditched their then leader, Siddaramaiah. Till the second coalition was in place, they lived in resorts in Goa.
  
  The BJP took up this method in 2008, when they formed government under B S Yeddyurappa. They had won 110 seats against the Congress’ 80 and were three short of a majority. Under mining baron and MLC G Janardhan Reddy’s leadership, first the independents, then several Congress and JD(S) MLAs were hosted at resorts. The latter lot were induced to resign their seats and contest again on BJP tickets, funded by the party, a method called Operation Kamala, which the BJP is now using elsewhere including Gujarat.
  
  “We set the trend and now resort politics has become the norm. Every Rajya Sabha election has it. And even in the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, elected corporators were herded into resorts till the polls for the Mayor and Deputy Mayor posts were held,” a JD(S) leader pointed out to ET. 
