GUWAHATI: The state government has proposed to rename ten city roads, including the portion of the historical  , popularly known as AT Road, built by the British in 1865. 

 Out of the ten, four roads have been proposed to be renamed after Vaishnavite saints, one after the 17th century sufi saint Pir Ajan Fakir and another after BJP's ideological mentor and philosopher Pandit Deendayal Upadhaya. Four other roads, including a rotary, have been proposed to be renamed after the founder of Ahom dynasty, Chaolung Sukaphaa, doyen of Assamese literature, Sahityarathi Lakshminath Bezbaroa, cultural icon Bhupen Hazarika and folk music maestro Khagen Mahanta.
 
 Guwahati development department minister   said the state government has proposed to rename the   road as Mahapurush Srimanta Sankardeva Path, after the founder of neo-Vaishnavism movement in 15th century. The AT Road and the Ganesh Mandir to Hatigaon stretch of roads have been proposed for renaming after other Vaishnavite saints, Mahapurush Damodar Dev and Mahapurush Haridev respectively, Sarma said. He added that the Six Mile to Narengi stretch, popularly known as VIP road, has been proposed to be named as Mahapurush Madhabdev Path. Madhabdev was the disciple of Srimanta Sankardev.
 
 The government also proposed to name the Ganesh Mandir via Kahilipara to Lalganesh road after Pandit Deendayal Upadhaya. The Kharguli to Noonmati road, earlier known as Refinery road, has been proposed to be renamed after Dr Bhupen Hazarika, and the Hengrabari to Sachal VIP Point after Khagen Mahanta. The Guwahati Club Traffic rotary has been proposed to be renamed after Sahityarathi Lakshminath Bezbaroa. The Sijubari road has been proposed to be renamed after Chaolung Sukaphaa, and the Beltola Khanapara road after Pir Ajan Fakir. 
 
 The proposed names of the roads are, however, subject to   (GMC)'s general house approval. Sarma said the government sought to give new names because some of the names have been in existence since the time of the British.
 
 GMC mayor, Mrigen Sarania, said roads were proposed to be named after saints and cultural icons with an intention to inspire young generations with the state's rich heritage.
 
 On having a road named after Pandit Deendayal Upadhaya, the GMC mayor argued, "We have not objected to roads or rotaries being named after Indira Gandhi or  . After all, Pandit Deendayal Upadhaya is a great philosopher and the young generation should know about his philosophy."
 
 State Congress president Ripun Bora, however, objected to the proposal of naming after Deendayal Upadhaya. "It shows that the proposal for naming the roads is politically motivated. What connection does Deendayal Upadhaya have with Assam?," Bora charged.
 
 All India United Democratic Front general secretary Hafiz Bashir Ahmed Quasimi said the government should have focused more on improving the condition of the roads. "If the condition of the roads is deteriorating, then it will be showing disrespect to the saints after whom the names are being proposed," Quasimi said.
 
 
