Standing out for just the sheer celebrity power in attendance, the annual cultural fest Pearl at the   (BITS) was a major draw for students from around 70 colleges in Hyderabad last weekend. Be it the intellectually stirring talk by  ,   Daggubati’s charismatic presence or Sonu Nigam’s mesmerising music performance — the students couldn’t get enough of the three-day fest.

 
 
 Day one of the fest had a host of events but the fashion show Glitterati drew large crowds as students walked down the ramp with some quirky and colourful outfits. Stand-up comics Anshu Mor and   had the students in splits with their brand of urban college humour. As the evening progressed, a fusion band competition had bands from all over the country battling it out for the top honours with Secret Mission from Mumbai emerging as the winner. Fusion music didn’t stop there as popular folk-rock band   enthralled the 500-odd students in the audience for the next 90 minutes with originals and their versions of songs like Bulleya, Kabira, Duma Dum Mast Kalandar and Iktara.
 
 
 The dance competition on the second day had energetic dance crews from various colleges bringing their thumping moves and synchronised formations to the stage as the crowd lapped every bit of the dance battle. And finally it was the dance crew from NIT Rourkela that walked away as winners. Metal heads had their time in the sun head banging and swaying to the tunes of bands that competed in the metal and rock band competition with Ranchi-based Highway 69 getting the top prize. Heavy riffs lead to super to the heavy beats of EDM as artistes Anish Sood and DJ Marnik got students grooving for over two hours late into the night.
 
 
 Taking the 2000-odd people in audience on a trip down memory lane, popular Bollywood playback singer Sonu Nigam performed some of his evergreen hits on the final day. The two-hour performance ebbed and flowed with emotion as Sonu belted out energetic numbers at the start of his set and then moved on to soulful melodies. He and his band offered some of his most famous songs like Kal Ho Na Ho, Abhi Mujhme Kahin, Bijuriya, Dil Deewana, Tumko Paaya Hai and Saathiyaan before signing off. The standout moment of his performance was when he dedicated his hit Abhi Mujh Mein Kahin from Agneepath to his mother.
 
