Mumbai: Central Mumbai where   station is located, has been a goldmine for builders after the state opened up this erstwhile textile mill enclave for development a decade ago. The unabated   spree in the Lower Parel-Elphinstone Road belt has choked the neighbourhood, attracting several lakh people every day and putting unbearable pressure on the two railway stations.

 Real estate experts said the total office space here was less than 30 lakh sq ft in 2005. But due to the state government’s liberal policies, it increased to 55 lakh sq ft by 2010 and crossed 1.3 crore sq ft by 2015. “The character of the area suddenly changed from an industrial belt into a sought-after business district and high-end housing,” said Ashutosh Limaye, national director & head, research, JLL India. The total office space is expected to increase to 1.6 crore sq ft by 2021, according to JLL’s estimate.
 
 Pankaj Kapoor, managing director, Liases Foras, a real estate rating and research firm, said around 11 million sq ft of office space is already occupied in the mill belt and surrounding areas. “A lot of retail, malls and food chains also attract a huge floating population every day,” he said. Limaye and Kapoor estimate the business district attracts three to four lakh people every day. This influx has increased daily footfalls at stations like Elphinstone Road. 
 
 “Wrong urban policies of the state which allowed higher FSI in the mill   belt for commercial development has led to this chaos,” said Kapoor. In 2007, the then Congress-led state government granted builders permission to set up IT parks in this belt. IT parks have a much higher FSI (2.66) than the regular FSI of 1.33. This allowed many builders to construct more buildable area on their plots. Some builders misused this IT park FSI and sold or leased out space to banks and financial services firms. “Many of these commercial towers have no IT-related activity,” said a source. 
 
 Another controversial policy was where builders got to construct much more if they built a public parking tower free for BMC. “Civic infrastructure could not handle this rash of construction,” they said. Kedarnath Rao Ghorpade, ex-chief planner, MMRDA, said railway stations in this belt are not designed to handle the surge. “About 20 years ago when we worked on redeveloping the 54 old mills,   had proposed an integrated local node covering Parel, Elphinstone Road to remove the load. But we have not invested in creating public spaces and widening roads even as private space has increased.” Gulam Zia, executive director,  , said the tragedy must serve as a “wakeup call” for planners, administration, realty sector and politicians.
 
