NEW DELHI: Twenty banners announcing opening up of   and restaurants for free use by women and children have been raised in its areas by the  . It has been over 10 days since the south corporation has made them freely accessible while the other two civic bodies in north and east too are expected to follow suit soon. TOI visited a host of south Delhi markets to talk to people about how the move is being implemented.

 The   association and hotel managers said they welcomed the idea and claimed they were largely accommodative of such ‘emergency loo requests’ even before the diktat. Most of them as well as beneficiary women were largely unaware of their new right. The guards and greeters too had not been briefed.
 
 Chand Singh from Jugaad cafe in Defence Colony said he didn’t know of any such rule so did Simi, manager of Sagar Ratna, but both of them welcomed the idea. Madhu Saluja, a visitor in the market said, “We face problems as there are no clean public toilets available but women too should not exploit the rule.”
 
 President of Defence Colony Traders Welfare Association Rajinder Malik said, “The move has an inherently positive intent behind it. Defence Colony restaurants are open to ladies whether they are customers or not. I will soon write a letter to all the owners to raise awareness levels.”
 
 Some young women across the city in Hauz khas Village argue the matter differently. Ritika, a university student said, “We come from well to do families and therefore will face less problems but what about women who are from poor backgrounds? Doors will always remain closed from them.” Ritika tried a facility in a cafe located nearby and was immediately granted access.
 
  Dr Shinjini from   said the class bias is what needs to be tackled by authorities. “People from lower strata can’t even dare to approach the gates of these affluent facilities. There should be more advertisements to make people aware that they are being empowered.”
 
 Some mangers said that although not many such women have arrived in last 10 days but it has possibilities of causing security risks. Pradeep Kumar from Ali Baba Caves said, “These people don’t understand the issues on ground. We get so many girls who are drunk or sometimes even want to use restroom to change dresses. There are obvious security risks and who will be responsible if something happens?” Garima Vohra, manager at Kaffeine in HKV said, “It is an excellent move for women and should be implemented with optimism.” Although even she wasn’t aware that such a new rule has come.
 
 South corporation officials defended themselves by saying that over 20 large banners, 5,000 stickers and 1,000 posters are being used to popularise the step.” They refused to comment on whether the campaign can be widened to include radio, TV or multimedia.
 
