BHUBANESWAR: A group of students on Saturday staged dharna in front of the   here protesting cancellation of the polls. They blocked the busy main road connecting Bhubaneswar with Puri for around 11 hours till 11.30 am demanding conduct of elections on the campus. The college authorities had issued notification on Friday morning to conduct polls this year. But in the night, Mohammed Nawaz Hasan, principal of the college, had decided to cancel the polls fearing violence in the campus. The college was also closed sine die for the student unrest.

 Hasan said he got information from the police about the prevailing tension inside the campus. “We witnessed violence on Thursday night after some miscreants threw high-intensity crackers near women's hostel in the college premises. The police said that the situation may escalate. Keeping this information in mind, we cancelled the election and closed the college for indefinite period,” he added. After cancellation of the polls, a group of students supported by   (ABVP) staged dharna in front of the college at the dead of the night. They blocked the busy road by torching tyres till 11.30 am. “We were in a winning position because of our popularity. Our rivals got scared of this and hatched a conspiracy against us to stop election,” said president aspirant Ashok Kumar Mallik.
 
 Students were asked to leave the hostel by Saturday evening. Inmates were seen leaving the college heavily guarded by the police.
 DCP Satyabrat Bhoi said the police have kept strict vigil on the campus. “For now, we have deployed two platoons of police force in the college. If we get information regarding any violence in the campus, we will increase security cover,” he added. Besides the  , two other colleges in the state were closed sine die after violence erupted in the campus. These are- Alarnath Vocational College in   and Dhamnagar College in   district. Some miscreants hurled bombs on Alarnath Dhandamulak Mohavidyalaya, Brahmagiri, in Puri district to incite violence in the campus. The police also seized a live bomb from the college premises. After this, authorities of the college cancelled the elections. 
 
