NEW DELHI: A   in   came to an end with the arrest of an 18-year-old and his accomplices, including a woman who received the stolen valuables and mortgaged them with a   for  . Police have implicated teenager   and his gang in at least   in south Delhi.

 The gang of five targeted houses belonging to bureaucrats and government officials in Moti Bagh, Satya Niketan, RK Puram, Sarojini Nagar, Saket, Safdarjung Enclave, Vasant Vihar and Hauz Khas. They left the jewellery they stole with Anju Chauhan, 25, who then took loans from financing firms against them.
 
 “Anju Chauhan has also been arrested along with Messy and three associates, Vicky Rawat (23), Sharon Kant (19) and Monu Lal (26). They are residents of Munirka,” said Ishwar Singh, DCP (South).
 
 According to Chinmoy Biswal, DCP (II), stolen cash totalling Rs 66,568 and $315 and five mobile phones, a tablet, five stolen scooters and gold and silver jewellery worth lakhs were recovered from them.
 
 The school dropout’s youthful age belied his penchant for luxury and his dependence on drugs. Fond of high-end clothing brands and accessories like sunglasses and watches, he would hit hotspots such as Hauz Khas Village after every burglary, blowing up to Rs 40,000 partying. He is a Justin Bieber fan and once fancied a life as a singer in Mumbai.
 
 Biswal revealed that special teams were formed in view of the increasing number of burglaries in south Delhi and surveillance began at several strategic locations. The “pink file” of all the budding criminals who were previously involved in burglaries in the area were scrutinised for leads.
 
 There was a breakthrough on May 17, when an informer tipped off the cops to the gang’s presence in Shanti Niketan. Police teams led by ACP Anand Rai, SHO Anant Gunjan and SI Ashok nabbed three of the burglars, including Messy. The information they provided led to the arrest of two others.
 
 Just three days earlier, the gang had targeted a house in Golf View Apartments in Saket. Prior to this, the robbers had stuck at a house in Satya Niketan on May 11 and made off with jewellery and around Rs 3 lakh in cash. On May 6, they had entered another house in the same locality and stoles cash and foreign currency worth around Rs 7 lakh. They had also spent an hour in diplomat’s house in the vicinity on May 4, but had failed to find anything of value. Reluctant to leave empty-handed, they had broken into another house in the same building and lifted some valuables.
 
 In September last year, they had burgled the house of a doctor and stolen jewellery, for which Chauhan had been able to get Rs 1.35 lakh as loan from a finance firm. Each gang members had a specific role and expertise. While one was a pro at keeping watch on cops, another was an expert at picking locks. The rest systematically rifled through the cupboards and drawers for valuables.
 
