NAGPUR: Members, newbie   who had gathered at the   at Chitnavis Centre on Saturday were a tad surprised with the stirring performances of actors in the Hindi play ‘Sahare Ki Talash Main’. What began as a hesitant applause by a few turned into a standing ovation as the artists took a bow and lights came up. 

 Led by Raja Mukherjee who also directed the play, Indrani Roy and young actors   and   stirred the right emotions with their sensitive performance. “I usually get such a response,” Mukherjee told TOI. This was the 18th show of the play.
 
 Based on a story written by Dr Debashis Naha, the play was set in the household of an elderly couple Manmohan and   who try to fill the void caused by the death of their young son by taking in a youngster Pradip as their paying guest. 
 
 The elderly couple don’t charge any rent and take care of the boy, who is fatherless. This is a great help for him as he has to send money back to his village where his mother and sister live. But care and indulgence soon turn into interference in his life and they begin to infringe upon Pradip’s freedom. He decides to shift out but is moved by the pain that would cause to the couple.
 
 Though the story had no new elements, it was the smart way of presentation which made the play interesting. No props were used and Pradip also doubled as the narrator. This gave pace to the play and kept the audience hooked to it. “This is the method usually adopted at theatre workshops and helps in developing acting skills as the actors work without the support of props,” Mukherjee said and added that it was most suited this evening as staging a play on the makeshift stage at Chitnavis Centre had its own limitations.
 
 A short film ‘Mom’ made by Mukherjee was also screened ahead of the play. “It was a two line story of a boy whose mother has been murdered by his father. It was my desire to make a short film but though the plot was interesting I could not do full justice to it,” he said, referring to the lukewarm response it got.
 
