PUNE:   and driving into no-entry zones are serious hazards for road safety in the city, shows data compiled by the traffic department. 

 According to senior traffic police officials, the problem of vehicle owners brazenly leaving their vehicles in ‘No Parking’ zones, indulging in double parking, or parking vehicles at corners or on footpaths is a challenge, which affects not only smooth flow of traffic but also hinders pedestrian movement and other road users. 
 
 This tendency to flout parking rules is more among two-wheeler users and is seen commonly in congested office areas, officials say, adding that they have now begun to target such offenders.
 
 Driving into no-entry zones is another serious menace, with more than 69,000 offenders caught in 2016. The figure has reduced as compared to 2015, arguably because the traffic police chose to focus more on traffic management.
 
 Commenting on the trend, deputy commissioner of police   said, “We are now focussing on illegal parking of all forms. We are happy to respond to individual complaints as well. Some people have the false notion that the footpath is out of the ambit of the traffic police. The reality is that we have to ensure safety of every road user.”
 
 Parking on footpaths makes the environment unsafe and unwelcome for pedestrians, pointed out   of Parisar. “Vehicles parked on footpaths discourages pedestrians from using the area. Enforcement is a critical part of the recent ‘Pedestrian Policy’ of the   and it is the only solution to the problem,” Gadgil said.
 
 Highlighting the unsafe conditions created for all road users by offenders straying into the dedicated bus lane of the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS), Pranjali  , Programme Manager (Maharashtra) of the Institute for Transportation & Development Policy, said, “The official statistics may not be a true reflection of the situation on the ground. There is no fool-proof monitoring mechanism to record these offences, which can seriously jeopardize the safety of the offender himself. The bus driver may not be aware of the passenger vehicle in the lane or approaching from the opposite side and can lead to serious accidents, along the route, near the bus stations or even at the junctions. The BRTS Rainbow teams are working hard to enforce rules, but awareness campaigns will also help.”
 
 The ITDP is working extensively for the promotion of the Bus Rapid Transit System and non-motorized transport in the city. 
 
 Cautioning people also driving on the cycle tracks to bypass traffic, Deshpande-Agashe said, “It’s unfortunate that people use them as a short cut, or to even park their vehicles.”
 
