GHAZIABAD: A 30-year-old man fell to death under mysterious circumstances from a ninth-floor apartment of an upscale housing society in   on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified by the police as Ashish Gupta, a resident of Sector 51, Noida.

 The incident took place around 11pm in the Nirala Eden Park housing society in Ahinsa Khand 2 of Indirapuram. 
 
 According to the police, Gupta had arrived in the society along with his fiancée, who lives in a paying guest accommodation in the society. 
 
 Residents of the housing society told TOI that the woman with whom Gupta had arrived used to share a 4-BHK apartment in Block C with 12 other women.
 
 Footage obtained from CCTV cameras installed inside the society has revealed that Gupta entered the premises, along with the woman, around 8.30pm. He landed on the lobby of the tower around 11.03pm after falling through a shaft.
 
 According to residents, the woman used to live separately in the servant’s room attached to the ninth-floor   occupied by the women. A small window opens into the shaft of the tower from the washroom attached to the servant’s room. 
 
 The police suspect that Gupta must have fallen through the shaft while trying to escape through the washroom window using a pipe that runs through the shaft.
 
 The servant’s room has been sealed off by the police for investigations. 
 
 “There was chaos soon after the man landed on the lobby. A resident of the tower agreed to rush him to the nearest hospital in his Maruti SX4. The man was bleeding and had head injuries too. 
 
 “The woman also accompanied residents to the hospital but was in a state of extreme shock to describe the incident,” said  , an apartment owners’ association ( ) member.
 
 Doctors at Shanti Gopal Hospital, where Gupta was admitted, declared him dead on arrival. 
 
 “The patient had suffered polytrauma probably after falling from a height. There were multiple injuries and he was brought dead,” said Dr Sanjay Sharma of the hospital. 
 
 The residents of nearby apartments claimedthey didn’t know where the two worked.
 
