Bhopal: Almost 54 years after   Wang Chi was captured by Indian Army, he will finally reach his country of birth. He will take off for Beijing from New Delhi airport, along with his son elder Vishnu, at 3.10am on Friday.

 Wang and his son thanked Times of India for taking up the matter to higher authorities. TOI has followed the travails of Wang Chi over the past few years. “We will always be grateful for taking up our plight with the authorities. This wouldn’t have been possible without your help,” Vishnu told TOI. 
 
 Wang has been given a multi-entry visa for two years so that he can travel between India and China without reapplying every time. The Madhya Pradesh government had helped Wang and his family get passports and also extended financial support to the family. “My mother, sister and daughter too have passports now, but we are not taking them along. Once we reach there, we will decide our next step,” said Vishnu, when asked if they had plans to settle down in China.
 
 Last week, officials of the Chinese embassy travelled to Maoist-infested area of Balagat after Wang’s plight garnered worldwide media attention and on social networking sites in China, especially on Sina Wiebo, where it’s trending with #ChineseVeteranInIndia. Wang and Vishnu had met officials at the Chinese embassy in New Delhi on November 19, 2016, and requested a visit to China. He was accompanied Vishnu, who has been spearheading a legal battle to help Wang visit China.
 
 Wang Chi was captured on January 3, 1963, after he walked into Indian territory. He says he was a mechanical survey engineer. Since the war was over, he was treated as spies and not accorded POW status. After being shifted from one jail to another for eight years, Wang finally settled in a remote village named Tirodi in Balaghat district with an Indian name — Raj Bahadur Wang. He married a local girl and now has grandchildren. But his desire to see his homeland one last time grew stronger as he entered his sunset years.
 
 “I realised I had walked into Indian territory only after I was arrested. I was roaming around freely as the war was over. They blindfolded me and took me to Delhi. I was treated as a spy. I spent more than eight years in prison and was interrogated on espionage charges,” Wang Chi had told TOI. “I maintained that I was not a spy and that it was an inadvertent trespass...”
 
 It took 25 years for him to send a letter to his family in China. By then, the Chinese government had declared him dead. “After getting my first letter, my mother and brother replied that now they would sleep in peace after 24 years of frantic search. Unfortunately, my mother died without seeing me,” Wang recalled. He met former PM Rajiv Gandhi and deputy PM Lal Krishna Advani, too and continued correspondence with them till Beijing accepted him as a Chinese national and began diplomatic lobbying for his return. 
 
 He wants to visit China just once, after which he will settle down in Balaghat “forever”, he says. In the 1980s, he moved a PIL in high court seeking a visa. His lawyer gave up after failing to get a reply from the home ministry despite several notices. On October 9, Wang Chi again wrote to the Chinese embassy asking about his visa. After toiling for over 50 years, he got a Chinese passport in 2013 with the help of the embassy. 
 
 
