NAGPUR: Coming to the rescue of  , the   quashed and set aside Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court’s verdict of December 23, 2015, that faulted NU’s working and directed it to provide necessary data to petitioner Sunil Mishra.

 The case pertains to NU’s 250 banned colleges, which rocked the institution in 2013-14, bringing much disgrace to it and leaving it on the verge of collapse.
 
 While applauding Mishra’s efforts to point out the alarming situation in educational institutions, the judges at Nagpur bench had directed VC, pro-VC, then Board of College and University Development (BCUD) director, and then controller of examinations (COE), to assist the petitioner by providing him necessary data at the earliest by charging only actual expenditure. Mishra was told to suggest ways and means to improve NU’s working.
 
 NU appealed against this decision through counsel Sudhir Voditel. The apex court’s division bench comprising justices Dipak Misra and AM Khanwilkar held that though Mishra’s pleas were filed to take corrective measures in NU, and may have characteristics of a PIL, the HC’s approach is erroneous in getting him involved in the enquiry with regard to NU’s functioning.
 
 The judges said that a third party or probe panel could have been appointed, but it shouldn’t have directed the respondent, whose approval of being a teacher was itself cancelled, to probe NU. “Granting him a supervisory right is impermissible in law,” the SC bench said, while setting aside the directives creating a right in Mishra’s favour to have a role in NU’s affairs.
 
 The HC had directed chancellor Ch Vidyasagar Rao to force colleges operating without teachers or infrastructure in state to raise education standards. “We’re certain that office of chancellor shall force concerned institutes to take necessary steps to uplift standard of education. We also grant liberty to petitioner to point out these orders and to move chancellor, so as to attempt to eradicate the wrongs prevailing in the system,” the then division bench of justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Vinay Deshpande held.
 
 They observed that such situation necessitates a serious attention and if such lapses are still continuing, students are being forced to take admission in below standard educational institutions and colleges.
 
 The vexed issue of 250 banned colleges ended after VC Vilas Sapkal was forced to resign by senior academicians like Baban Taywade and Dinesh Agrawal, who run NU’s political outfits. Interestingly, both Taywade and Agrawal were bitter rivals, but joined hands with government officials to oust Sapkal, who dared to ban colleges operating without regular teachers, n violation of UGC norms.
 
 Ironically, a majority of NU colleges are still operating without regular teachers and infrastructure. TOI had first raised this issue and closely tracked all developments related to it.
 
 
