RAIPUR: A post-battle analysis of Saturday’s Maoist ambush in   reveals horrifying scenes of ‘arrow bombs’ raining down on   jawans and IEDs exploding at the very sites they rushed in for cover.

 The rebels had planned an even worse massacre than the body count of 12, but failed because they could isolate only a small part of the 100-strong CRPF unit, say senior police officers who visited the site near  , in the   tribal region of  . It’s clear the Maoists closely studied the routine of the CRPF road opening party and chose the ambush site for maximum casualty.
 
 More than 100-odd CRPF personnel of the 219 Battalion leave their post almost every day to carry out area domination marches in an area where a road will be built. 
 
 On Saturday, the security forces came under heavy fire from the rebels — the shooting was meant to herd the jawans into the actual kill zones. When the troops rushed into the cover of trees to retaliate, as they are trained to, there were three IED blasts in the sites that offered the best cover, say sources.
 
 Police found arrows fitted with explosives, indicating rebels rained bombs on the jawans from tree tops.
 
 Last week, there were reports of senior Maoists assembling in the forests of Bastar. Some photographs were circulated on social media about the presence of top Maoist cadres in the region.
 
 Saturday’s attack turned out to be the worst in two years. Senior police and paramilitary officials had a meeting late on Saturday with Union home minister   and chief minister   to review the situation in Bastar.
 
 When the CM was talking to the media on Saturday, it was pointed out that the attack happened after the exit of IG SRP Kalluri and transfer of two SPs from Bastar. The CM replied: “I don’t think anyone’s presence in Bastar or anyone’s shifting from the area would make a difference. Such attacks always take place spontaneously with an element of surprise.”
 
 Over the last two years, Bastar police had unleashed a propaganda campaign, under the leadership of Kalluri, that Maoists were surrendering in large numbers. During this time a large number of alleged rebels gave up arms in Bastar and police projected it as an achievement. The brief lull in violence was interpreted as a result of the pressure mounted by security forces.
 
