GURUGRAM: For voters in ward number 29, covering parts of sectors 46, 47 and 48, Tikli village, Mayfield Garden, Malibu Towne, Jal Vihar,   1 and 2, vexing issues are similar to   of other areas. 

 There are the persistent complaints about lack of proper water supply, electricity and  , and like elsewhere, residents say they aren’t too sure if elections will have any bearing on their lives, as many areas under the ward are yet to be officially taken over by MCG.
 
 The biggest demand of Mayfield Garden residents is that their   be taken over by. They, though, aren’t sure how much a councillor can help with their demand. “Our area is yet to be handed over to MCG. We have to pay for basic amenities such as roads, water and power infrastructure from RWA funds, while in MCG sectors, these are taken care of by government agencies,” said Sunil Khandelwal, executive member, Mayfield Garden RWA.
 
 Their grouse is compounded by the fact that residents of privately developed areas have to pay property taxes like other sectors, along with RWA maintenance charges, without getting any benefit of the former. Khandelwal said they have spent Rs 1.5 lakh on street lights and another Rs 2 lakh on road repair from RWA funds in the past year. 
 
  Residents of Malibu Towne on Sohna road had similar complaints. “Problems are similar across the city — water, power and roads. I, too, am not sure how much a councillor can help in these, as they appear to be toothless,” said Mridu Sharma of Malibu Towne. She added that unlike residents of some other areas, she would vote, but she would not bother too much about the result. 
 
 In Sector 46, residents said while they are officially covered by the corporation, their condition is no better. “Quite a bit of development work has happened in the sector over the past year, but as far as basic services are concerned, the situation is as bad as before. Ours is an old sector and road repair has not happened in the last 18 years. Authorities must start work as soon as possible,” said Satbeer Sangwan, a Sector 46 resident. He added   should be kept out of bounds of political parties. Instead, candidates candidates should be chosen by residents themselves. 
 
 At Tikri village, residents said they have highrise buildings on all sides, and waste from these condominiums is dumped in open plots in their village. “There is a lot of construction work going on in the neighbourhood. The heavy traffic damages our roads too,” said Sandeep Yadav, a resident. 
 
 
