NAGPUR: The Maharashtra (Urban Areas) Protection and Preservation of Trees Act, 2017, which has been amended after a gap of 41 years, simplifies the process of tree-felling. Though desirable for development, environmentalists however feel the amendments do not strengthen mechanisms for preservation and the protection of trees.

 As per the amended Maharashtra (Urban Areas) Protection and Preservation of Trees Act, 2016, permission of tree authority is not needed if the number of trees to be felled is 25 or less. The permission of municipal commissioner or chief officer of the municipal council will suffice.
 
 Condemning the move, environmentalist   said that it will result in fast decisions that will not be in favour of green cover. “A top official already has his hands full and will not have time to look into such cases. They may forward the applications to NMC’s garden department which is already under-staff,” Deshpande added.
 
 Most of the sections of the amended act fasten the development process by reducing the number of days. “From 60 days, the duration of granting permission has been reduced to 45 days. The civic body is already short of manpower and might not be able to give fair decisions in the process of hurrying,” said green activist and lawyer  .
 
 The amendments have restricted the number of compensatory plantations to two. “The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) was carrying out plantations as per 1:5 ratio. How can two saplings be planted in place of one-fully grown age-old tree?” said  , founder of Green Vigil Foundation.
 
 The amended act also envisages appointment of a tree officer who will grant permission for tree felling. However on the flip side, the tree officer need not go on the spot for inspection if the applicant submits photographs and details of trees to be felled. 
 
 “Genuinity of a case cannot be determined just by seeing pictures. Spot inspection is a must for saving trees,” said Deshpande.
 
 Implementation of the act will be weak, said Khorgade. “Tree Authorities of the entire state do not follow the clause that states NGOs should be included in the authority. Civic bodies cite technical difficulties and include more corporators in the body,” he added.
 
 For effective implementation of the act, documentation of every trees should be done. Said  , retired member state forest land committee, “Ownership of trees is important. Also instead of imposing fine, NMC should recover heavy compensation for felling trees. As per scientific research, value of services rendered by a tree during its average lifespan of fifty years is over Rs 15 lakhs.
 
