KOCHI: A racket, which used to   from  , was busted by the police on Saturday and six people were arrested.

 Police said Mohammed Yasar, Aboobacker, Aneesh Abdul Kareem, Biju Antony , Rony K A and Lenish Kunjachan were arrested for stealing construction raw materials worth several lakhs from different sites. The accused even used  , truck and jeeps for carrying out the loot.
 
 Acting on a tip-off, Kalmassery police took a truck into custody when the gang was returning from the HMT Metro yard with stolen goods, including iron rods.
 
 The police said the accused have confessed of having lifted raw materials from various metro rail sites in the city. They used to target iron and copper materials lying around in the open yards.Metro officials said the raw materials belonged to the contractor. “It is the contractor's responsibility to safeguard the raw materials. But such things will not delay the project,“ said a metro official adding that the contractors approached police after the se curity guards deployed by them proved ineffective.
 
 Drug overdose: Woman admitted to hospital
 
 A 53 year-old woman was admitted to   after excessively consuming prescription drugs. The woman, Geetha Devaraj, approached   claiming that she consumed over 200 tablets. The woman was transferred to Renai medicity later. “She had consumed drugs prescribed for diabetes and thyroid disease. She underwent a stomach cleaning and is now under observation at an intensive care unit here,“ said a Renai Medicity spokesperson.
 
 Woman found hanging:
 
 A 25-year-old woman committed suicide at Vennala hanging from the ceiling fan of her bedroom on Friday morning. Ashwathy Saji (25), shut herself inside the room and committed suicide between10.30 and11.30 on Friday morning. Though, no suicide notes have been found, police hinted that the woman was not happy with her marriage.She leaves behind her husband and two children.
 
 An FIR of unnatural death has been lodged at Palarivattom police station.
 
