Times News Network

 New Delhi: HPCL-Mittal Energy Ltd, the joint venture with state-run Hindustan Petroleum and NRI steel tycoon Lakshmi N Mittal, is gearing up to invest nearly $3 billion in setting up a petrochemicals complex at their Bhatinda refinery in Punjab.
 
 The company plans to set up a naphtha cracker with a capacity of up to 1.7 million tonnes for producing raw material for making plastics, HPCL chairman M K Surana told reporters on Friday.
 
 Though setting up a petrochemicals plant takes up to four years, HMEL plans to fast-track the process to build it in lesser time. “We have land and other infrastructure at the Bhatinda refinery,” he said, adding that the project will be formally announced shortly after investment approvals.
 
 This will be HPCL’s first petrochemicals plant in northern India. The company operates refineries in Mumbai and Visakhapatnam. HPCL and Mittal are equal partners in the Bhatinda refinery. HPCL and Mittal Investment Sarl hold 48.9% stake each in HMEL, while the balance is with financial institutions.
 
 Surana said expansion of HMEL’s Bhatinda refinery to 11.25 million tonnes per annum from the existing 9 million tonnes will be completed next month at a cost of $350 million. The refinery has taken its first 45-day maintenance shutdown to integrate new units, he said, adding that additional volumes will cater to growth in demand in northern India.
 
 HMEL had also plans to expand the Bhatinda refinery capacity further to 10 million tonnes but Surana declined to speak on the issue.
 
 HPCL has plans to investing Rs 45,000 crore by 2020 for expansion of its Mumbai and Visakhapatnam refineries as well as augmenting its marketing infrastructure. It is investing Rs 4,199 crore in expanding its Mumbai refinery capacity to 9.5 mt per annum from the current 6.5 mtpa.
 
 It is lining up another Rs 17,000 crore in expanding Visakhaptnam refinery capacity to 15 mtpa, from 8.3 mtpa currently. The investments will also help the company produce “products confirming to Euro VI” emission specification, he said.
 
 
