CHANDIGARH: The special investigation team (SIT) of the Haryana police is likely to question rape convict   head   Ram Rahim Singh for cases related to the 
  and to ascertain the whereabouts of his key aides Honeypreet Insan, Aditya Insan and Pawan Insan.

 Haryana DGP B S Sandhu said all three were the faces of the dera and their arrest would lead to unearthing of the circumstances which led to violence in Panchkula and other places after Gurmeet’s conviction on August 25.
 
 He also hinted at announcing cash rewards for those providing clue about Honeypreet, Aditya and Pawan. “We will question all those who can lead to the arrest of the three accused. As the investigations are progressing, we will question anyone having direct or indirect role in provoking violence. We have already started gathering information related to properties linked to Honeypreet, Aditya and Pawan,” said DGP Sandhu.
 
 As many as 1,100 persons have so far been arrested, including 44 from  , whose involvement in the incidents of violence was confirmed.
 
 Sandhu reiterated that there was no lapse in case of Honeypreet. “Until August 25, no case was registered against Honeypreet. After the arrest of Surender Dhiman, Honeypreet was found to be one of the accused for provoking violence. Therefore, a case was registered against her and search was launched to nab her,” he said.
 
 The DGP said as per the Punjab and Haryana high court order, a search operation was carried out in the dera headquarters at Sirsa under the supervision of the court commissioner who would submit his report on September 27. He said one copy of the report would be given to the Haryana government and further action would be taken according to the court order, he said.
 
 Responding to a question with regards to allegations levelled by   pertaining to dera head 
  , DGP Sandhu said   had met the Panchkula commissioner of police but had not given any complaint in writing. “If any written complaint is received, police will include it in the investigations,” he said.
 
