CUTTACK:   players' body language suggests they want to settle a score with  . But members of the team management seem to be bogged down by the question: Who's going to score to achieve that goal?

 With this predicament in mind, East Bengal are preparing to take on Chennai City FC, hoping for turning a corner and staying afloat in the   on Tuesday.
 
 In the tournament opener, despite Wedson Anselme's wonderful goal, East Bengal allowed Churchill Brothers to come back and share the spoils. If defence played the spoilsport in the red-and-golds' plans, the lack of cutting edge in the attacking third did precious little in helping the team start on a positive note.
 
 Willis Plaza, who emerged the team's highest scorer in the just-concluded I-League with nine goals, was guilty of wasting several open chances while three-man midfield operating behind the Trinidad and Tobago striker failed to make their attacking intentions count.
 
 Plaza admitted on Monday that it needed time to get adjusted to a new system under a new management. East Bengal used to operate in a flat 4-4-2 formation under Trevor Morgan, but Plaza was employed as a lone striker in a virtually 4-2-3-1 system against Churchill Brothers here on Sunday.
 
 If the strikers' lack of goals remains a worry, the backline continues to give the team jitters. East Bengal assistant coach Ranjan Chowdhury and team manager   worked up a sweat again during a brief training session on Monday, trying to make sure the defenders stay in shape to deal with Chennai City's counter-attacking threats.
 
 The 4pm kick-off means it's going to be another test of endurance for the players. According to Chowdhury, goalkeeper  , who suffered a groin injury and was subsequently replaced by Rehenesh TP on Sunday, should be available. However, Chowdhury may ring a couple of changes in the midfield.
 
 Keeping their usual worries aside, what East Bengal are trying to focus is spreading their wings with more intensity against Chennai City.
 
 V Soundarajan's side had beaten Morgan's East Bengal 2-1 in their I-League second-leg meeting. But here on Sunday, they suffered a meltdown despite going 2-0 up in the first half against   when the I-League champions kept pressure on them from the wings before scripting a come-from-behind 3-2 win.
 
 Soundarajan later admitted that Aizawl's wing-play and change in strategy of going in three strikers took his team by surprise.
 
 In Brazilian Charles de Souza and several known faces with the experience of playing in the Maidan like D Ravanan, Zakeer M and Abhishek Das, Chennai may have enough ammunition in their arsenal to negotiate any challenge.
 
 However, Chowdhury, who watched the match, must have noticed Chennai's drawbacks as well, especially the way their defenders were forced to commit mistakes while dealing with crosses from the flanks.
 
 East Bengal have their ploy ready to conquer Chennai. How they execute it and turn the heat on Chennai on Tuesday remains to be seen.
 
