NAGPUR: For Gujaratis, though Garba and dandiya is the main focus of  , there are other traditions not everyone is aware of.

 It starts with the sthapana of the idol on the first day, practised in a similar fashion to other communities. Garbo, or a decorated earthen pot, is also brought for nine days. “Bringing garbo’ home is a way of worshipping Goddess Shakti. It has a religious and spiritual meaning. Garbo is an embodiment of the universe, and lighting a flame inside signifies the existence of life. We then worship the Goddess twice a day, and the nine days stand for her nine avatars,” says Alka Palan, a resident of Wardhaman Nagar. 
 
 The prasad is different for different days, Palan says and adds that she usually prepares jalebi for Dussehra to symbolically celebrate the destruction of Ravan. The arti, like others, is performed twice a day. Navratri, according to Hindu calendar, is celebrated in the month of Ashwin till Pratipada Navmi. 
 
 Bharti Rawal, a resident of Khare Town in Dharampeth, explains the mythological theory behind the traditions. “When there was excess of evil and darkness in the world, Brahma — Vishnu-Mahesh created Durga from their energies. Durga went on to slay the devil Mahishasur, eventually being called as Mahishasur Mardini. During Navratri, we worship goddesses Kali, Laxmi and Saraswati, who present each of the good values required in human beings,” Rawal says. 
 
 It is said that nearly 5,000 years ago, Lord Krishna’s avatar Aniruddha used to go from chowk to chowk, singing bhajans, to beckon his lover. “It is due to this that Radha-Krishna raas is so popular in our epics,” Rawal adds. 
 
 Kheer, lapsi and puri are special dishes made for prasad during the festival. For those who fast, fruits are important part of the diet. Also, the colour red is associated with the Goddess, which is why rose, flower, chunari, sindoor and bangles in red are either used to decorate the idol or kept near it. The havan, or the holy fire, marks the end of rituals.
 
