Abandoned but a traveller’s delight is what you could call  , which has appeared as a   it was submerged under. This   had a life of about 100 years before it was left to stand alone after the village it stood in was evacuated to construct a dam across  

 The fact that it stands miles away from habitat is what makes it special, and perhaps that’s the reason it attracts tourists, despite there not being enough facilities for them. Unlike churches that are famous for their traditional structures, this Gothic church is famous for the ruins that it is today.
 
 Praneeth Shetty, a 25-year-old travel enthusiast, agrees wholeheartedly. Praneeth, who hails from Mangaluru that is 220 km from Shettihalli, had no idea that such a place existed till he followed the suggestion of a travel blogger who had been to this place. The experience, Praneeth says is jaw-dropping.
 
 “The majestic ruins take you back in time and leave you awe-struck. The fact that even in its state of ruins it stands strong is the most appealing thing about it,” he said.
 
 The experience has got Praneeth earnestly following the travel blogger. While it is becoming increasingly popular among tourists, the natives are oblivious to the importance of the place. Nilesh, who lives close to the church, doesn’t think it is worth visiting. “It is an abandoned church. There is no altar there. There’s nothing there to see,” he said. But that’s not how everyone looks at it. Locals who are into tourism, use the church to attract tourists. Rukma, who runs a homestay in Sakleshpur, 30 km from Shettihalli, said, “There was less rainfall this year. That is why the church was not submerged in the water from the reservoir, so more tourists have been visiting it.” 
 
 Church of the people
 
 Construction of Hemavati Dam because of which the church was abandoned in 1960 has been a blessing to the area in more than one way, for tourists now visit the unusual structure. Though only a skeleton of what it once was, its remaining walls gives one a fair idea of its gigantic size. The beauty of the church is evident in its
 European architecture, and locals swear by its popularity during the past “glorious” days.
 
 Villagers in Sakleshpur say that the area around the church was once dotted with sunflower plantations that were nurtured by the river Hemavati. The church was the centre of the small hamlet as it was the one strong structure built with bricks, jaggery and eggs!
 
 
 Monsoon diaries
 
 The church stood the test of time and tided over many a monsoon. It, in fact, got submerged every year during the monsoon only to emerge after the rains subsided.
 
 Travel bloggers and tourism experts say the place should be visited not once but twice – once when the church stands tall as it basks in a bright blue sky and again during the monsoons when it surrenders itself to the over-flowing Hemavathi reservoir.
 
