NAGPUR: After being associated with the   for over three decades, the   is going it alone in the   elections slated for February 21. For the first time, the party has fielded 85 candidates. 

 In an exclusive interview, city Shiv Sena President   told TOI that the BJP has used Shiv Sena as and when it wanted. “We are their friends only when they need us,” he said.
 
 Excerpts from the interview...
 
 Would it have been better if you had an alliance with the BJP?
 
 The three-decade alliance with them has actually restricted our growth. The BJP used us only for earning political mileage. As the BJP never gave us more seats, we never got an opportunity to field more than 15 candidates in civic polls. Had we gone alone these years, the party base and the reach would have increased manifold. It’s better we are going alone. 
 
 You don’t have a strong base in city. How do you expect to win in a four-member ward system where committed voters are required for success.
 
 The four-member ward system is the brain child of BJP to keep its rebels away from civic polls. It will also keep smaller parties and even independent candidates away from being elected. As we are going alone this time, we are getting good response and an assurance from people that they will support our candidates.
 
 How many seats will you win?
 
 Though we tried to field over 120 candidates we failed to distribute B forms. So we could manage to field only 85 candidates. But we will definitely win 30 seats. In 2007, when I was city president, the party won 10 seats which included nine new faces in the civic elections. This time too we have fielded almost all new faces with good public image. Moreover, the infighting in both BJP and  , will be an added advantage for us.
 
 What is your agenda for the NMC elections?
 
 Our focus would be on shifting of Bhandewadi dumping yard, slum development, better roads, proper street lights etc. 
 
 Since you can’t rule the NMC on your own given the probable seats you hope to win, who will you ally with after elections?
 
 Yes we will not be in a position to rule the NMC on our own. But we will be a kingmaker after the election. The party will take decision as per our party supremo.
 
