PUNE: The e-visa facility would be launched at the   in the last week of March and the   would give 0.74 acre of land to the left of the facility's entry for widening the approach road. 

  The 0.74 acre plot is in addition to the defence land earmarked for the airport's development, subject to handing over of the required land by the state government to the  , said Jyoti Kadam, the sub-divisional magistrate of Haveli, Pune. 
 
  The two crucial decisions were taken at a meeting of the Airport Users' Consultative Committee and   on Saturday morning. MP Anil Shirole, the chairman of the Airport Advisory Committee, chaired the meeting. Representatives of the state police, state administration, CISF, airlines, general aviation, trade and the Air Force attended it. 
 
 Several issues regarding the airport's development, including construction of the new integrated terminal building, reconstruction of the old terminal building and cargo complex, construction of apron (four aircraft parking bays), a link taxi track and provision for tensile canopy, highlighted by the airport director in his presentation, were discussed. A layout plan for the future development of the airport was also presented to the committee.
 
 Airport director Ajay Kumar, said the work on all schemes of the five-year plan, including increasing the capacity of the security hold, additional toilets and installation of LED lights for better illumination, had been undertaken.
 
 Anant Sardeshmukh, director-general of Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (MCCIA), suggested a solar power project at the airport on the lines of the one at Pune railway station besides developing a green belt on the approach road to the airport.
 
 On Mehta's suggestion to reduce the immigration time for international passengers, Ajay Kumar, the airport director, said more counters for the facilitation of the passengers were in the offing.
 
 Suhas Jadhav, the station manager of Air India, suggested deployment of employees from the ministry of home affairs instead of their state counterparts for immigration purposes. The   chairman assured to take up the proposal with appropriate authorities.
 
 Bajirao Mole, the inspector of Yerawada traffic branch, requested to take up the road repair work from car park No. 2 to Vimannagar on priority, along with the beautification of the existing road with greenery and solar lights on the approach road to the airport.
 
 He also requested to undertake the necessary steps for opening the underpass from airport to Kalyaninagar on the second side of the road at Ramwadi Naka on Ahmednagar highway.
 
