HYDERABAD: While celebrities are coming out in the open to support the agitation against the ban on   in Tamil Nadu, filmmaker   has alleged that celebrities were doing it only for votes and tickets. On the other hand, actor   encouraged students to continue the agitation by non-violent means.

 “If each supporter should be made to be chased by a 1,000 bulls let us see how much they will protest?” he said on Saturday sounding a discordant note. “Torturing defenceless living beings for personal entertainment in the name of culture and tradition is worse than terrorism. At least 10 animals should be set after each Jallikattu protester for him to know what the poor bull feels when thousands are chasing it ,” he said.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 On the support Jallikattu is getting from the government, Ram Gopal Varma said, “ Government restricts filmmakers to even show a crow or dog but allows bulls to be brutally harassed for cultural entertainment,” he said.
 
 Actor Kamal Haasan who has come out in support of Jallikattu has asked celebrities not to steal the show in the agitation against the ban on it.
 
 “This movement is of the people. I still feel celebrities should only support and not steal the show,” he said on Saturday.
 
 The actor had more encouraging words for the people of Tamil Nadu. “Bravo, people of Tamil Nadu. This agitation is a sample of our discontent. No more band-aids. Heal the wounds. We have been hurt enough. Act. The world is watching us. Tamils are making India proud. Keep your tenacity of purpose. We have become women and men of the moment,” he said.
 
 Kamal Haasan went back into history on his twitter reminding that the manifesto for civil disobedience movement was drafted in Madras in 1930 and again was being successfully enacted in Tamil Nadu in 2017.
 
 The actor called upon the agitators to remain non violent. “You will win,” he said. Kamal Haasan said he was watching the news for only one purpose. “I watch news just to watch my people gathered all around TN. Moved to tears. Thanks. You are no more students you are now teachers. I am a fan. My support is always for decency. Don’t weaken our case by slandering. Leave small people alone. Fight decision makers,” he said.
  
 
