PUNE: The repair work of the   to plug leakage has begun but the restoration would not be complete before monsoon.

 The work will continue for two years. Thereafter, the water leakage through the dam’s wall is expected to stop completely.
 
 Scheduled to begin in December 2016, the work was delayed for two months. The reasons include the civic body and  , and some clearances from the state and  .
 
 The state irrigation department ruled out the possibility of completion of the repair work before the next monsoon. It would give priority to plug bigger leakage points before June to ensure water stored in monsoon did not flow out through the cracks.
 
 “We issued the work order in the last week of February after all formalities of tendering were completed. The basic work pertaining to the installation of machinery, labour and finalization of execution plans has started. The actual work will begin soon,” said an official from the state irrigation department.
 
 Over 30 types of repairs have been proposed. The work would be done in three phases.
 
 The Temghar dam is a major source of drinking water for Pune. It is also the newest among the four dams supplying water to the city and rural parts.
 
 Water has been leaking from the Temghar dam’s wall because of cracks. The government appointed an expert committee to look into the matter, which recommended repairs. The department had taken up the repair work about two years ago, but the leakages could not be plugged completely.
 
 Officials stated that the dam’s wall was safe and the existing cracks had not damaged its basic structure. The water leaking from the dam’s wall is not going waste because it is flowing into the  .
 
 Plan for monsoon
 
 The water storage in the dam has been brought down to almost nil to facilitate the repair work. Some water has to be released from the dam during the repair work. A plan will be prepared to release water into the Khadakwasla dam, depending on the rainfall.
 
 The work is likely to get hampered during the rainy days. The department said the schedule of work would be finalized after taking into consideration the likely delays because of rains.
 
