PATNA: Complying with the Patna district administration’s May 11 suggestion, some of the city schools have updated their official websites besides starting text message notification system for the convenience of students and their parents.

 Some schools have even put up syllabi and holiday assignments for nursery to Class XII on their websites. 
 
 Seema Singh, principal of St Karen’s High School, said the school has updated the website through e-care information system. “Now, students and parents can check latest notices and circulars on the school website. Parents can also get messages on their cellphones about school activities. The school has uploaded summer holiday assignment to the website to help parents monitor their wards’ progress,” she said.
 
 Likewise, St Xavier’s High School has also uploaded assignments and summer camp details to its website. “Uploading homework to school website saves a lot of time for teachers as well as students. Students can easily download the assignment rather than writing on their notebooks,” said Fr Manish Osta, vice-principal of the school. The school has also provided a link for parents to upload their numbers for school information.
 
 Don Bosco Academy, Mt Carmel High School, St Joseph’s Convent High School and   have also updated their websites.
 
 Many parents and students have welcomed the move of the schools to go digital. Aayushi Priya, a Class IX student of St Karen’s Secondary School, said it saves time. “It is good that the school is changing with the time and adopting latest technologies. We were surprised when teachers told us that the holiday assignments will be uploaded to the school website,” Priya added.
 
 Recalling his previous summer vacation experience, Arnav Aarush, a Class VII student of St Xavier’s High School, said while on a trip to Ooty, he lost his assignment that caused him immense trouble. “I had to copy everything from my friends after returning from the trip. Now, even if I misplace my assignment sheet, I can easily download it from the school website,” Arnav said.
 
 Parents too can monitor their wards’ assignment while on tours. “I have downloaded my daughter’s assignments from the website of the school and assigned her daily work. Meanwhile, I am also ensuring that she enjoys her summer vacation,” said Shailesh Kumar, whose daughter studies in Class IV at Litera Valley School.
 
 Patna district magistrate   said many schools, which didn’t have their websites, have created one. “Uploading summer holiday assignments to school website is a welcome step. All schools should do this. The administration will hold another meeting with school representatives for the assessment of the points which were raised in the last meeting on May 11,” Agarwal added. 
 
 
