Love is in the air... and could the world of television be immune to the spell cast by excitement preceding Valentine’s Day? Like any other couple in city, TV stars, too, have made their plans. You’d be surprised to know that they are anything but roses, beach walks and the regular mush. Read on...

 
 
 Kashmera says, “We plan to chill in Goa. I booked the tickets and paid for our stay in the hotel. So, since I am paying in ‘Kash’, Krushna (Abhishek) will have to pay in kind. I have had the same Valentine since 10 years. If you ask him, he’ll call me his turpentine and he’s my serpentine (laughs). We celebrate Valentine’s Day differently every year. Fortunately, we can spend some quality time together as we are both free this year. Valentine’s Day is not important to celebrate, because what is the use of loving a person on one particular day and then be horrible to him for the rest of the year? Also, I don’t want to say that I celebrate Valentine’s Day every day, as there are times I hate my partner. But I am human and prone to make mistakes. I love my man despite his faults. You are in love only when you are willing to accept the person with all their flaws. Everything else becomes inconsequential and the success and happiness of the person you love takes precedence.”
 
 
 
 Ravi says, “I intend to take Sargun out for a private dinner and spend some quality time with her as our schedules seldom match. It’s going to be our first fancy dinner together this year. My relationship with my wife is my top priority every day of the year, but Valentine’s Day gives you an opportunity to literally drop everything and focus your energies entirely on your partner.”
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Anita says, “We plan to celebrate the day with Mowgli, a pup, my husband Rohit got me after our previous dog passed away. Mowgli is just 45 days old and behaves like a baby; waking up at odd hours, howling for food and making us clean up after him. This is our way of mentally preparing for the next big thing in our life — having a baby. We may take Mowgli to the dog-park at Carter’s Road (Bandra) and spend time there. After all, the sunset at Carter’s is romantic, too. Also, since we are busy in our respective schedules, any time alone at this point would be a bonus!"
 
 
  
  
 Ridhi shares, “We may go for a rock concert on Valentine’s Day because we aren’t the types to really celebrate the day. The best way to enjoy is by doing something that’s completely opposite of all things romantic and mushy. Besides, it also coincides with my brother’s ( ) wedding anniversary, so we always look forward to doing something together. Valentine’s Day is not exactly our kind of a day as we both believe that love should be celebrated and lived every moment. It should not be restricted to one day. Love should always be the core reason for our existence as that’s what drives us to live.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
