COIMBATORE: Scientists from the   (TNAU) are helping the   in the region, who had suffered crop loss due to drought, to confront nematode worms that can damage even the healthy crops.

 Nematodes are microscopic worms like tapeworms, that are present in the soil and enter the roots, said the in-charge of the All India Co-ordinated Research Project on Nematodes, K Poornima. “Nematodes primarily affect vegetable plants and fruit trees, giving the roots a bead-like appearance. The holes or wounds they cause to the roots also allow disease-causing fungi and bacteria to enter the plant. The worms also suck the sap out of plant cells. Bacteria and fungi entering the roots further damages it. As a result, crops rot and wilt quickly,” she explained.
 
 Experts from the Nematode department of TNAU conducted a training session for tribal farmers from Patchan Vayal, Pudhupathi village and   earlier this week to teach them how to control the menace. “We taught them some basic steps like ploughing during the summer. They have been told to place polythene sheets in nurseries and expose the soil to heat and humidity for 15 to 20 days. Nematode eggs can not survive in soil exposed to heat and humidity. We also taught them how to check for the presence of nematodes while buying saplings from nurseries,” Poornima told TOI.
 
 “It is important that they do crop rotation. Planting a season of marigold or marigold around the main crop also help, as marigolds release a chemical, which deters nematodes. Application of biofertilisers like cow dung and organic manure is also beneficial,” she said.
 
 The experts conducted a training programme for 45 gourd farmers in Navakkarai on Tuesday. Similar workshops were conducted for the guava farmers in   and pomegranate farmers in   in Erode. “ We will soon conduct training for banana, vegetable and flower farmers in the belt,” Poornima added.TileNematodes are microscopic worms like tapeworms, that are present in the soil and enter the roots of vegetable plants and fruit trees
 
 Bacteria and fungi enter the roots through the wounds caused by the worms. As a result, plants rot and wilt quickly
 
 Nematode eggs can not survive in soil exposed to heat and humidity
 
 Farmers have been told to place polythene sheets in nurseries and expose the soil to heat and humidity for 15 to 20 days
 
 TNAU scientists have conducted workshops for the guava farmers in Dindigul and pomegranate farmers in Sivagiri in Erode on nematode control measures.
 
