Four years ago, when people told Bengaluru student   that she couldn't race 'like the boys' she took it up as a challenge to prove them wrong.

 It didn't take long for the challenge to turn into passion for the 23-year-old who is among the few women bike racers in the city.
 
 “Nobody in my family is into racing, but they haven't stopped me from chasing my dreams. I learnt to ride a bike as a teenager, but it wasn't until four years ago that I decided to race competitively. It upset me to think people judged my ability to ride based on my gender. I was lucky that my family backed me,“ explained Priyanka, who last weekend finished second to Goa's Neha Masurkar at the   QuarterMile  , a racing event held on the outskirts of Bengaluru. Women drag racers are in constant touch with each other and their discussions don't revolve on the latest fashion statements, instead they talk extensively on bike trends, engines and competition.
 
 While racing is their passion, most of them manage successful careers as well.
 
 One such person is last weekend's champion Neha who is a child psychologist.
 
 The Goan, who took to racing on her   200 cc, believes it isn't difficult to balance her love for speed and a career.
 
 “I run a pre-school in Goa and also create programs for specially abled children. I'm also pursuing higher education, so my days are packed. On weekends my nights are dedicated to practice. I'm not the only girl. We are a group of girls and we call ourselves Biker Babes and go on rides. I've always found support at home because my parents are passionate about riding. My mother was initially reluctant about me taking up drag racing because of the risk of injuries.But once she realised I was passionate about it she came around,“ said Neha.
 
 Neha also believes the most heartening aspect of her being a drag racer is the motivation other girls derive from her to break barriers.
 
 “When young girls see me race, they get motivated to try out things which they are not allowed to because of the gender barrier. For me, one of the greatest joys is to go back to my school after a win and see my students, especially girls celebrate my victory like it is their personal triumph,“ pointed out Neha.
 
 While Bengaluru girls Priyanka and Rehana Hajee are typical biker women, others like  , who finished fifth in the Indian Cars' 1101-1400 cc category, loves her time be hind the wheels.
 
 “It's a passion I have always had be cause my father was into racing. After marriage it worked to my advantage that my husband shared the passion with me. I knew how to drive when I was 13 and started competing last year in the women's category. This year I decided to compete with the big boys because I believe racing has nothing to do with gender,“ said Nidha, a successful marketing professional with a multinational company, who drives a turbo-charged Esteem.
 
 Sanjay Sharma, Head ­ Motorsport, JK Tyre & Industries Limited believes that the involvment of women in motorsport is on the upswing, “The number of women in racing is going up dramatically. There is so much of potential there that we are willing to invest in female racers like we do in men in motorsport. It is not only women from metros but increasingly a lot of girls in tier II cities have embraced the sport in a big way ,“ he said.
 
 Nidha has a message for women with an untapped passion for cars and bikes. “I'm hoping more women take up racing because it if fun and we can compete.“
 
