JAIPUR: The   have found that 4,206   were reported in Jaipur between 2015-16. In most cases, a false complaint was filed with an aim to extort money or defame a person to settle personal scores.

 According to a senior police officer, these fake cases included allegations of harassment for dowry, molestation, cheating, and rape. These startling figures surfaces when Prafull Kumar, additional commissioner police (First) asked all DCP offices to provide details about cases where final report (FR) was found to be false.
 
 “We have directed all DCPs to file a legal case against people involved in filing false case under Section 182 (IPC),” Kumar told TOI.
 
 According to figures accessed by the TOI, maximum false reports, 1,417 were filed in Jaipur (East), followed by Jaipur (West) which found that 1,326 cases were false.
 
 A senior official said that filing FIR in Rajasthan is not an arduous procedure unlike in states like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. “Rajasthan police immediately registers the FIR in cases related to rape, sexual harassment, molestation and dowry demand, which is a good step. But during subsequent investigation, we found the allegations were made merely to implicate a person in cases in order to extort money,” cops said.
 
 The concerns of Jaipur police may not be out of proportion when one looks at the crime figures. For instance, Jaipur-East, one of the most crime prone police area of the city, disposed of 60 cases of rape, out of which 30 were found to be false.
 
 “Our investigation revealed that 50% of cases filed under Section 376 were false. It’s a staggering figure which is unfortunate. The police stations are already overburdened with flood of cases, and we spend half of our times on probing cases which have no genuine ground,” a senior official told TOI.
 
 Cops recall an incident where a 27-year- old girl alleged that she was sexually harassed by his 52-year-old landlord. A case was registered by the police, but the subsequent investigation revealed that landlord was asking the girl to pay the pending rent of three months, the girl decided to file a complaint in order to implicate the landlord.
 
 
