LONDON: Slovakia's   has known some dark depths, plagued by doubts and injuries, she was ranked as low as No. 453 in the world as recently as March. She warmed up for Wimbledon by winning a lowly ITF event in a spa town in West Yorkshire. The tough days, however, fortified the 28-year-old, arming her with the belief that helped her storm the Wimbledon semifinals, where she's the only unseeded player. 

 Having entered the grasscourt Slam with a protected ranking of 108, Rybarikova ranked 87, struggled with knee and wrist injuries, missing the second half of 2016. After eight first round reverses at Wimbledon, she made her first major semifinal, where she'll play the 2015 finalist  , the 14th seed, on Thursday.
 
 In the other last-four clash American star  , a five-time champion, will take on the sixth-seeded British hope  . Rybarikova, who was ranked as high as No. 31 in the world four years ago, has been the revelation of the tournament. "It's all happening, it's a dream. I'm so, so grateful for this opportunity to be in the semifinal," she said. 
 
 The Bratislava resident trails Muguruza 1-2 in head-to-head clashes, but having beaten the 22-year-old in their last meeting in Birmingham on grass two years ago, she knows she can fight it out. "I want to enjoy the semifinals. I'm going to fight to be in the final. I'm going to give my all in this match," she said.
 
 Rybarikova said grass was her favourite surface. "It's true I never played good here, I lost eight times in the first round. Then it was a little bit in my head that I just want to pass the first round. Two years ago I did a third round. Then I relaxed. I was like, 'okay, I can make it. I can be through the first round'."
 
 The Slovak, who shocked Karolina Pliskova, the WTA 's new No. 1, in a long-drawn three-setter in the third round, said, she came into the tournament believing she can play on grass.
 
 "I was saying to myself to play my game. I know I can play good on grass. I know my game is difficult for another opponent," Rybarikova, who has a strong serve and relies on her whiplash forehand, had never been past the third round of a major until last week. "I've played well. I didn't expect I was going to play that well, that I was going to reach semifinal. But I did. You have to believe. If you look at other draws, you'll see that there was Mirjana Lucic in the semifinal of the Australian Open." 
 
