AGRA: Over 25 students of a private boarding school fell ill 
  night after consuming mess food in   district. The incident took place 100 km away from Agra city in Dhumri village on Etah-Aliganj road at around 
 . After several complains of  ,   and vomiting by students of Rashtriya Vidya Nekatan primary school, the school authorities admitted the ill students in district hospital of Etah. 

 A class four student who was admitted in the hospital, claimed, that he along with other students had grain and potato in evening meal, after which they fell ill. “The food was having pungent smell. I vomited after eating it,” said the student on the assurance of not been named.
 
 Dr Madhup Kaushal of district hospital Etah who attended the children 
  night said, “Eight students were admitted in our emergency ward. They were complaining of stomach ache,  . Now all the kids are in stable condition.”
 
 Speaking to TOI, Basic Siksha Adhikari ( ), Shiyam Kishore Tiwari said, “We have been informed that close to 25 students of class III to V, were ill after food poisoning and were sent to various hospital for medical aid. The school administration had no certificate or authority to run a boarding school. I have asked the block level officer to investigate the matter and take appropriate action against the school if they are found guilty.”
 
 Rashtriya Vidya Nekatan primary school Principal Sarvesh Shakya said, “Only eight students were sent to district hospital, while rest other were fine. Our students and teachers eat same food which is cooked inside our mess. 
  evening, students complained of pungent smell coming out of food but none of the teacher reported such matter. Later the students fell ill and we immediately took them hospital.”
 
 When questioned over the allegation of running a boarding school without certificate from BSA office, Shakya said, “Majority of boarding school in the area are running without proper documents, at least we have proper infrastructure. Our management had applied for certificate earlier, if the BSA does not approve it, then we will close the boarding school.”
