NAGPUR: The farmers’ protest in Maharashtra and   might be seemingly over after the government decided to waive off Rs 34,000 crore loan but the troubles for the farming community are far from over.

 In the wake of several criterion in the loan waiver scheme, an open discussion on ‘World trade, farm produce prices and farmers suicides’ was arranged by   in association with Lokshahi Hakka Samrakshan Samiti and   led by economist Shrinivas Khandewale at Dhanwate National College on Sunday. It aimed at guiding the farming community to clearly identify and present their demands.
 
 Khandewale highlighted various issues that farmers are facing in Vidarbha and Marathwada. Talking about the poor stand of India at World Trade Organization (WTO), he said that US and the European Unions have a very stiff and clear stand about their farmers in WTO. That’s why their agriculture sector is so strong. But when it comes to India, the farmers get very less support. 
 
 “The central government cannot distance itself from the problems of the farmers. Majority of the decisions are taken by the Centre. So they should definitely look into the problem and work out solutions,” he said. 
 
 Khandewale said that US and European Union have a separate agriculture budget, from which 95% directly goes to the farmers which helps them in many aspects.
 
 There are two types of subsidies for them — the first one is green and is not directed at any specific products and are not targeting subsidies and they may include direct income supports for farmers who are distressed due to crop loss or market breakdown. The other type falls under the blue box and are basically Amber Box subsidies but they tend to limit the production. 
 
 “The demand is to create a new ‘Pink’ box where subsidy must be given to the farmer as a livelihood support. All the poor countries suffering from agricultural crisis should come together at WTO and fight for Pink Box subsidy. Also recommendations of   should be implemented as soon as possible,” he said.
 
 Amitab Pawade from Daxinayan also raised the question on India’s blurred stand on agricultural issues as they never take a strong stand like their US and European counterparts do for their farmers.
 
