PUNE: For over a decade, the   brothers have mesmerized audiences with their take on music. Their musical journey has taken them to shores near and far but this Saturday is the first time the performers go on stage in Pune. Catch them perform at  , 7pm onwards. 

 Nearly 12 years ago, Ravi Ranganathan was drawn towards the cello. His brothers   and Theo Ranganathan took up the violin and piano. In time, they decided to perform together.
 
 The brothers, who are better known as Trio Ranganathan, have a strong lineage in Carnatic music. "Learning was quite natural. We started at the conservatory when we were quite young, under the supervision of our parents. As we started doing well, we decided to stay on course and make the most of it," said Ajay.
 
 The artists are excited about returning to India after five years thanks to the effort put in by the   and the Poona Music Society.
 
 Having been trained at the Conservatory of Tours in France under  , and under various other professors, the brothers believe they were most influenced by Vincent Coq, of the Trio Wanderer.
 
 Although the brothers are most familiar with French music, they have a diverse choice of music. Theo loves Pink Floyd while Ravi's all-time favourite is Rastropovitch. "He was the best cellist in the world. He played really well and because of him, we have a lot of pieces for cello. More so, he asked every composer of his time to write for his instrument. Where do you get to see this," he smiled.
 
 Ajay, on the other hand, does not have any favourite performer. "Each musician can perform a wonderful concert. I believe in giving a chance to each and every artist," he said.
 
 Speaking about their upcoming event, Theo said, "We have prepared a full French music programme to show how diverse the music can be."
 
 During Saturday's concert, the trio will play a selection of French piano trios by G Faure, E   and M Ravel. "Faure's trio is very simple music while Chausson is romantic. Ravel's trio is the most difficult piano trios ever written as there are different colours to it," explained Ajay, who also promised the audience a few surprises at the concert.
 
