MUMBAI: With the Supreme Court giving the Indian cricket board two weeks to submit an explanation why e-auctions are not being preferred to sell the media rights of the high-profile Indian Premier League ( ), senior BJP leader   said he is hoping “BCCI will not live in the 19th century but move into the 21st” by doing the right thing.

 Swamy, who also serves as a member of the Rajya Sabha, had filed the petition in the Supreme Court, asking that   to conduct e-auction to sell the rights of the IPL. In May this year, Swamy had first written to the Justice   ­ on whose recommendations the SC has asked BCCI to implement reforms ­ saying “e-auctions ensure greater process control, increased transparency, shorter lead times and generate an extremely competitive price discovery environment”.
 
 Speaking to TOI on Monday, he said: “We are moving towards transparency and the Prime Minister says we must move to the digital world. Why should they (BCCI) conduct an auction physically?
 Why should it happen in a closed room? “Given that the Supreme Court is hearing the matter, those who track the industry of cricket across the country refused to comment on the matter. However, there is a growing unanimity in the industry that “whatever needs to be done to ensure a fair process should be put in place”.
 
 “Whatever happens on August 28 gets locked and is valid for a period of five years and the money being spoken about is around Rs 25,000 to 30,000 crore,” Swamy said. “Let's have an e-auction instead of all this paperwork, where everybody gets connected. The Supreme Court has said wherever an e-auction is possible it should be resorted to”.
 
 The senior BJP leader believes it is the BCCI's own past conduct that has led to this situation. “If cricket is not coal or spectrum, then it's not a closed old-boys school racket either. It is public money and the Supreme Court has held in its July 18, 2016 judgement that even though it is a private organisation, they are discharging public function, they are subject to judicial review. In line with that, they should be moving to the 21st century and not live in the 19th century,” Swamy added.
 
 BCCI officials had told TOI last Friday that `cricket cannot be compared to coal' in steadfastly sticking to their stand that an e-auction for IPL media rights is not a sensible move. The cricket board has a clear view: “no sports property in the world is sold through an e-auction simply for the reason that the process does not encourage a fair price discovery.”
 
 BCCI says if anybody who wants an e-auction can give one good reason, besides just repeating the word transparency again and again, it is willing to consider.
 
 “Apart from shooting down the value, there's no other way e-auction will benefit. There's a leading audit firm (Deloitte) and legal firm (Amarchand Mangaldas) looking into the transparency bit.So, is everybody saying these guys are not trustworthy?” say board members.
 
 While BCCI continues to defend its stand, those who make for the country's cricket industry say: “It is not the process we're worried about. To ensure that the process is transparent is what is important”.
 
 Meanwhile, the onus is also on ex-CAG   ­ who is the head of the SC-appointed   ( ) ­ to submit a view in this regard. In a meeting of the cricket board, Rai had lent his support to the idea of BCCI continuing with the existing system.
 
 
