 is returning with its new season next week, and like last year, it has again included commoners in its list of inmates. While the complete list remains a closely-guarded secret, DT has learnt that three of the commoners are from NCR. After Noida's   went all the way and won the competition last year, can these two emulate the feat?

  Among the inmates is Delhi-based Haryanvi dancer  . While Sapna might not be popular in the mainstream, she has a huge following in rural Haryana, Delhi, and western UP. Her   videos generate thousands of views and her performances across Haryana towns pull sizable crowds. As per sources, another YouTuber from Delhi,  , who is popular for his channel BB Ki Vines and is known as an 'adult comedian and singer', will also be a part of the new season. He has reportedly studied in Delhi's Green Fields School and Shaheed Bhagat Singh College. The third NCR resident in 'Bigg Boss' is Noida's Sshivani Durga, a tantric and spiritual healer who is currently based in Mumbai.
 
  
  Bhuvan Bam
 
 
  Sapna was in the news last year when a case of hate speech was registered against her in Gurgaon, after she allegedly said something against a particular community at one of her dance performances in the city. After a case was registered against her in Gurgaon's Sector 29 police station, Sapna even attempted suicide, claiming that she was being attacked and abused on social media. Originally from Rohtak, Sapna currently stays in Najafgarh and regularly performs at events in NCR.
 
  
  Sapna Choudhary
 
 While Sshivani's appearance and career might have more in common with former inmate Swami Om, she would hope her path in the 'Bigg Boss' house goes fellow Noida-resident Manveer Gurjar's way. Vikas Dutt, Sapna's brother who manages her business and shows, tells us that Sapna sent her profile for entry to the 'Bigg Boss' house last year as well, but was rejected as her profile wasn't a "very strong one". He says, "She always wanted to be a part of the 'Bigg Boss' house, and even last year, she sent her profile for entry as a commoner, but was rejected then also. Plus, there were other problems also that she faced last year, so even we could not follow up. This year again, she tried her luck and this time, her profile was chosen. One round of auditions happened in Delhi and the entire selection process took about six months. She was asked to be in Mumbai on September 25 for the shooting of the promos. She will be there for 8-10 days and will return for her shows here." Sshivani was unavailable for comments when we tried to reach out to her. While the showrunners have not yet confirmed that these three will be part of the new season, sources indicate that their names will be revealed along with the other inmates during the season premiere on October 1. 
 
  
  Sapna Choudhary's contact that has a WhatsApp name 'Vote For Sapna' also has this as the DP
 
 --With inputs from Divya.Kaushik@timesgroup.com
 
 
