CHENNAI: Landowners eagerly thronging   in   to register   had to return disappointed on Thursday as the government is yet to issue an order in this regard. 

 But their wait is likely to end next week as the state government is set to issue an order to register such plots on Monday. However, only unauthorised plots that were previously registered as ' ' can be registered. 
 
 Official sources with the registration department said they were awaiting the copy of the Madras high court order that relaxed the ban on resale and registration of unapproved property on Tuesday.
 
  "We will get the order copy by Monday and direct sub-registrar offices to renew the registration of unapproved plots," a senior official in the office of the inspector general of registration told TOI. 
 
 A circular would be issued to sub-registrar offices about the high court's directive on lifting the stay on registering unapproved plots, sources said.
 
 A month after the Madras high court put a blanket ban on registration of unauthorised plots to control the menace of massive conversion of farmlands, the state government notified Section 22(A) of the Town and Country Planning Act on October 20, 2016. 
 
 The notification allowed registration of plots, if they were registered under the category of 'housing site' before. The court had cited this amendment to lift the ban on registration of unapproved plots. 
 
 However, the remaining unsold plots of a larger layout, where a chunk of plots has already been registered, have to wait for the   under the consideration of the government. 
 
 "For instance, in a layout of 100 unapproved plots, 20 could have been sold before the ban on registration of unauthorised plots came into effect in September 2016. Only those plots can be re-registered, while the remaining 80 can be registered only after the government comes out with a regularisation scheme," an official noted.
 
 The ban on registering unapproved plots had blown a hole in the exchequer of the state government, which subsequently reported a monthly drop in revenue of 300 crore. 
 
