AHMEDABAD: The inscription of 5.34 sq km area of Ahmedabad’s   by   as the country’s first world heritage city filled Amdavadis and people across the country with tremendous pride and joy. This is the third world heritage inscription from Gujarat after Champaner-Pavagadh and Ranki Vav in Patan. 

 But the announcement also brings with it a profound sense of responsibility and duty upon the municipal body and Amadvadis to collaborate and conserve the precious heritage. On Saturday, Unesco’s think-tank   on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS), which had inspected Ahmedabad’s Walled City in September last year, had differed Ahmedabad’s inscription while raising concerns on conservation and management plan and had even offered Ahmedabad help. 
 
 ICOMOS in its presentation had said, “While the key monuments are adequately protected, ICOMOS considers that there are many buildings that make city’s distinctive forms of pol and puras are vulnerable and are not yet sufficiently documented.” ICOMOS demanded implementation of local area plan, heritage conservation plan and visitors plan on Saturday.
 
 While mentioning a deadline of 2019, ICOMOS demanded a detailed documentation on the pols, a conservation plan for the wooden havelis, completion and implementation of key components of management system, revision of boundary and buffer zone to connect the city to the river and a heritage impact assessment with new buildings coming up in the vicinity that can affect the authenticity and integrity of the world heritage city. 
 
 However, municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar claimed that with the special purpose vehicle for heritage projects in place, more funds in the form of PPP and   can be used for protection of dilapidated properties. 
 
 Sahitya Akademi winner Esther David told TOI, “By receiving this honour, we as a city have the responsibility of looking after it. I feel the Walled City needs to be spruced up a little as visitors may now stream in. But more important is that citizens and municipal authority should jointly organize events to take the Walled City to its people and the country and bring back the glory of the Walled City.”
 
