MUMBAI: Despite Monday's “very cordial meeting” between the Committee of Administrators (CoA) and the Board of Control for Cricket in India's ( ) old guard, the two parties seem headed towards a collision course starting Thursday. The   has given a go-ahead for the  's ( ) Governing Council meeting, albeit with a rider that going by the July 18, 2016 order of the Supreme Court, they are not going to agree to individuals over the age of 70 getting involved in the affairs of Indian cricket administration.

 The BCCI has a different take on the interpretation of the order. The old guard says “please read the order once again. It clearly says no elected representative can be over the age of 70. A Governing Council member is not an elected representative. He is nominated to the council.” 
 
 Senior Punjab Cricket Association administrator MP Pandove (71) is a GC member. Well-placed sources confirmed to TOI on Wednesday that Pandove will attend the meeting, a move that could eventually turn out to be another flashpoint between the old guard and CoA. Both have a common refrain: “Have a problem interpreting the SC order, go to the court.” The SC has scheduled hearing on the BCCI matter only in July.
 
 Another thorny issue between CoA and the old guard pertains to the Special General Meeting (SGM). The latter has called for a SGM on April 9, where acting president CK Khanna has directed secretary Amitabh Choudhary to share the agenda with the state units. The agenda includes discussing proposed policy changes at the   (ICC), nominating representatives to the   meetings, appointment of ombudsman and other legal matters post the January 2 SC order.
 
 The CoA is about to float a separate agenda and call for a SGM on April 12 13, asking state units to provide an undertaking saying they will accept SC-directed Lodha Panel reforms. CoA says the April 9 meeting cannot go ahead because Vinod Rai is travelling and out of the country. The old guard says, “How does it matter whether he (Rai) is around or not. The president is well within his right to call for SGM.”
 
