HYDERABAD: While the capital is gung-ho about the box office ringing with latest  ,   are also busy   they shelled out for parking in   and  .

 A movie-goer, Vijay Gopal, 28, who was recently at the Ramakrishna Theatre in Abids to watch a movie, was in for a shock when he was charged `30 for parking. After theatre owners refused to blink, he lodged a police complaint against the management in Abids police station, on Monday .
 
 Gopal, an RTI activist, said, “The Cinema Regulation Act of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, 1955, is clear about rules.Parking is permitted if there is ample space and only a nominal price is levied for keeping vigil on parked vehicles. But some commercial complexes are charging even `100, which is unacceptable.“
 
 It seems, Gopal is not the only one fighting the highhandedness of theatre owners. Prudhvi Suryadevara, an IT employee who enjoys his favourite hero's movie on the large screen, said he preferred watching a movie at home rather than get fleeced for parking. He too has lodged a complaint with the multiplex management.
 
 Theatre managements are supposed to provide free space.At least 40 per cent of the total built up area is reserved for parking, according to rules. Hardly any theatre seems to follow this rule, say Greater Hydera bad Municipal officials.
 
 Making matters worse, every theatre slaps arbitrary parking charges. In single-screen theatres, the management collects `25-30 per hour to park a four-wheeler, while the same could go up to `50-75 in multiplexes. That is not all, it is again based on the number of hours that the vehicle is parked.
 
 “There is no specific department that controls parking fee either in theatres or multiplex es in the city. While the government is supposed to fix a rate and issue it to managements of the complexes, it has failed to do so,“ Rameshwar Rao, general manager, Telangana State Film Chambers of Commerce, told TOI. RTI activist Gopal said he would lodge cases under Section 420 (cheating) of IPC against big players like, Inox, IMAX, GVKone, Inorbit , Forum Sujana Mall and the string of Asian multiplexes, as well.
 
 
 
 
 Strong action must be taken against multiplexes for flouting norms and forcing motorists to pay heavy amounts as parking charges. It is time the government set up a committee to regulate parking fees and ensure rules are followed. Action must also be taken against unauthorised personnel who have been extracting parking fees from residents
 
