NAGPUR: The   have finally some   in hand, but the   is yet to pick up. At the same time, some pockets are still grappling with  .

 TOI spoke to farmers in different parts of Vidarbha and they say that the situation has improved since the last 10 days.   are finally allowing withdrawals up to Rs 24,000 a week. 
 
 Traders are only offering cheques for the produce and it is taking as much as a fortnight to clear. This is a bigger concern for the farmers who are also worried due to the falling rate of soyabean and tur dal at Rs 2700 and Rs 4000 a quintal, respectively. 
 
 Orange growers have already taken a direct hit of demonetization. There is a lull at the district central cooperatives (DCCBs) which have a wide network in villages and were barred from accepting old notes. “Cash supply from RBI is abysmally low to these cooperatives,” says sources here. 
 
 Cheque clearing even in a normal course takes 15 days in rural areas. “Not all banks have a branch in the villages. So, if a trader gives a Bank of Baroda cheque and there is only SBI in the farmer’s village, it will take at 10 to 15 days to get it encashed,” manager of a PSU bank’s rural branch said. 
 
 With cash crunch in mind, farmers are also holding on to their produce. “Its peak season and cotton supplies are only at 30%,” said Roshan Kothari of the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee in Wani, in Yavatmal district. 
 
 “There is enough money in the system but the rates of paddy have come down to Rs 1700 a quintal as against at least Rs 1800 last year. With banks allowing withdrawals up to Rs 24,000, farmers are now able to pay the labourers,” said Sanjay Nimbarte, the ex-sarpanch of Chandoli village in the paddy-growing belt of Bhandara.
 
 “Unlike soyabean and tur, cotton is fetching a decent rate of Rs 5,000 a quintal,” said Nitin Khadse of Jalka village in Yavatmal. 
 
 At Selodi village in Yavatmal, cotton farmer Vinod Kankirad was happy with the cash supply. “Earlier I could withdraw only up to Rs 10,000 from the bank,” he said.
 
 The village has branches of BOI, SBI and the Yavatmal District Central Cooperative bank. 
 
 Things are not as well in Etapalli tehsil of Gadchiroli. “There is a single bank in the town. The Gadchiroli district cooperative bank is almost defunct. Getting Rs 24,000 a week is a far cry. If there is enough cash for some days, around Rs10,000 can be withdrawn,” said Vijay Ramgundawar, a businessman. 
 
 The situation is no different at Mendgaon village. “Banks are fast running dry and not more than Rs 2000 is available per head. It is difficult to even pay the farm hands,” said Arjun Timande a local farmer.
 
 
