BENGALURU: Safety in public spaces, equality and respect from the political classes – these were the three demands that women, and men, who gathered at three different locations in the city to register their protest against the incidents of sexual harassment of women that the city has witnessed in the past week.

 Besides calling for greater security measures, some of the women who had assembled to protest at   also advised caution. Amrita Mohan, a corporate lawyer, for instance said that she asked some of her friends who had come from other cities not to venture into   on New Year’s Eve. “When I was young, I visited MG Road with my parents on New Year’s Eve, and saw men drinking and throwing beer bottles on the street. There were no cops around to monitor the situation. The situation has only become ugly now. My friends wanted to go there this year for New Year celebrations. But I told them Brigae Road is not the Times Square of Bengaluru,” Amrita added.
 
 The protesters opined that the language used by those in power and authority should reflect their commitment and intention to equality.
 
 Standing beside women protesters, men too expressed their solidarity and commitment to fighting sexual harassment. “Changing the mindset doesn’t need a great beginning. Once men start to think of women as human beings, they will start respecting them,” said Hrishit Verma, who works at an education startup in the city.
 
 Shreya Krishnan, the director of a CSR vertical of an MNC in Bengaluru, read out a poem to the group of men and women who had gathered at Cubbon Park, which expressed the angst and anguish that women felt over the lack of safety. “Women should be able to access any public space any time of the day without having to worry about their safety,” she said.
 
 In front of the Vidhana Soudha, nearly a 100 people joined together to form a human chain, with many individuals holding up placards that read ‘Touch me not’. Anitha Jerry Ramesh came up with the idea of the human chain, and posted the same on the Win Bengaluru Back Facebook page. “The incidents on  , and other streets, are not new and exclusive. As an ordinary citizen, I would think twice before filing a police complaint. Will the government protect me or will someone else knock on my door to threaten me? We have had enough,” said Anitha.
 
 Towards the evening, members of Citizen for Bengaluru and Whitefield Rising wore large black circles on their forehead, that read, ‘Shame on us, blame us’.
 
 Govt would’ve ignored us at  
 
 At the Vidhana Soudha, nearly 100 protesters assembled around 11am. They were informed by cops that protests were prohibited on Ambedkar Road. “Had we taken the protest to Freedom Park, it would have been very convenient for the political class to ignore us. If this road is protected, why can’t the government ensure all roads in the city are safe for us?” asked Aashika Jayanth, a law student.
 
 Founder of She Collective Hub, Sandhya Mendonca said that cops should focus on ensuring that crowded places are safe for women. “I too have suggested that women should not go to crowded places. Now, I think if that was the right thing to do. When they talk of protecting women, police should not ask us to leave, but drive out miscreants,” she said.
 
 ‘Tipping point’
 
 Bengaluru seems safer than other cities. These incidents have happened in the past, but it has reached a tipping point. Brigade Road is not perhaps the right place to hang around during New Year’s Eve. While we should do as much to reclaim public spaces, we should also be careful. Moral policing by police or politicians is not acceptable. We have to come out and raise our voices against being judged.
 
 — Shruti Sharada | Freelance writer
 
 ‘Men also feel ashamed’
 
 As a result of the actions of a few men, we are being stereotyped as being mentally sick. We also feel ashamed. Such men and boys get bail, continue to commit such crimes, and all men are blamed again. Why is conviction such a challenge in such cases? If such elements do not escape from the clutches of the law, things will change. Civility comes from within.
 
 — Dhruv Lodha | Student, Jain College
 
 ‘We wanted women to feel motivated’
 
 We started an app-based taxi service, which employs women chauffeurs, because we wanted them to feel comfortable in their work. We had them ferrying schoolchildren, and office-going women. Even when we get male passengers, we speak to our clients beforehand. The women feel motivated to drive because they feel respected in this profession.
 
 — Vandana Kamat | Taxshe founder
 
 Before he starts pointing out that women are wearing western attire, I want to ask the minister if he has donned western clothes. I want to ask why they want Kannada as a medium of instruction, while they send their children to study abroad. It’s just hypocrisy.
 
 - Rina Kashyap | Shanthalanagar resident
 
 ‘We’ve heard of incidents of molestation in police stations’
 
 Our Police do not have a good reputation; we've heard of cases of molestation having taken place even in police stations. This might be a reason that is keeping women from seeking help from cops. 
 
 - Ammu Joseph | Author
 
