NAGPUR:   took over as chairman of Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) newly-elected standing committee on Saturday. Jadhav was unanimously elected and is the only male member to be nominated by BJP, the 11 other party members of the committee being women.

 Jadhav, who is believed to be close to Union transport minister and city MP Nitin Gadkari, has been rewarded for being a loyal worker of BJP for the last 30 years. Interestingly, Jadhav had put in a service of 21 years in NMC as a civil engineer. “I started working in NMC in 1991. Though I was always working actively for the party, it was in 2012 that I took a plunge into politics and contested for the first time in civic elections,” Jadhav said.
 
 In his first term itself, Jadhav was appointed as deputy mayor. This is his second term and he is again holding an all-important post.
 
 Soon after taking charge at a ceremony in NMC’s Civil Lines office on Saturday morning, Jadhav admitted that the civic body is going through a financial crunch. One of his main agenda to overcome the financial crisis will be to ramp up recoveries of property tax dues. “Harsh measures like seizure of properties of habitual defaulters will be taken,” Jadhav warned. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Jadhav said that the percentage of property tax defaulters is as high as 40-50 per cent. “This is an alarming situation. The city has around 6 lakh property owners but hardly 50% of them are regular taxpayers. I appeal to the citizens to take this seriously. The city can only develop if people pay their dues regularly,” he added.
 
 Having state chief minister and union minister from the city with both of them pro-actively bringing funds for the city’s development is a big help, he added. City BJP president and MLA Sudhakar Kohale said, “BJP has completed ten years’ rule in the city and is again starting a fresh term. Though BJP has won with a splendid majority, even in prabhags represented by other party corporators will get equitable funds for development.” MLA   expressed confidence that the standing committee was in able hands with Jadhav as chairman. 
 
 Jadhav also said that he will hold consultation with officials of each department to find the recovery situation and discuss measures to shore up revenues. “Zone-wise targets for improving financial condition will be set and inspected. 
 
 The 16-member standing committee, besides the 12 of BJP, will have three members from Congress and one from Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). While the latter has already nominated  , Congress is yet to give names of its three nominees for the committee. Sources said the party may finalize the names by March 20 when the next general body meeting of NMC will be held.
 
