I have been married to my wife for 6 years and we have a 3-year-old kid. My problem started with my wife 2 years back - she always follows her parent's advice and doesn't consider my family as her family. I even caught her affair with her boyfriend before my son's birth. At that time, she stopped it as I gave her divorce threats but recently I found out that she still talks to him. 

 And last year, she got me arrested on domestic violence charges intentionally. I have been suffering a lot since the last six months. During that time, I lost my father and got my mother to stay with us. She didn't even let her stay and ran away twice from our home for about 15 days. She also used to beat me up and tell everyone false stories like she is a victim of my behavior. She doesn't want me to stay with my mother who is a widow now. But I can't leave my mother as she is my responsibility.
 
 And her violent behavior is affecting our child a lot. She gets violent and fight unnecessarily and also throws and breaks things.
 
 I feel like I need to file for a divorce but I can't stay without my son. He is a US citizen and I need his custody in any case as I can't stay without him. I feel my wife's intentions are not good for my family's future.
  
 She is preparing for her license exam and in which her parents are supporting her a lot but they don't care about our marriage. All they want is money from their daughter and I did discuss our problems with them but her mother said she doesn't care about all this. I feel like I need justice and keep my son away from such issues.
 
 She has abused this relationship a lot and I want to get rid of her now but I also don't want to lose my son. Currently, she is in India with my kid and doesn't have a visa to travel back to the USA and I am here. If she comes back, then she can repeat such incidents again at any time, then my life would be over. Please advise me how to handle this situation. Is it better to divorce her or should I give her another chance?
 
  
 You seem to be under a lot of stress and frustration as far as your married life is concerned. Right now you seem to be contemplating between giving it another chance and separation. 
  
 For a relationship or a marriage to work, it needs equal effort from both partners. One person alone cannot be expected to make changes and resolve problems. When you think about giving your wife another chance, have you tried to understand her point of view on this?
 
 Is she ready to give this marriage another chance? Do you both share the goal of making it work? Does she really need this second chance at all? And at your end, is this second chance merely because of your child or do you really wish to revive this marriage and relationship with her?
 
 You talked about how her aggression and behavior is affecting your child already. Does your wife acknowledge this too? How is her behavior as a mother and around your child? Parents' unhealthy and unhappy marriage can do more harm than good to a child. I would also suggest consider and writing down all the pros and cons of being in this marriage. It will help you get some clarity.
  
 Now coming to your other option, divorce. Again begin by considering all the pros and cons of this separation. From what you have told, I understand that your main concern revolves around your child's custody. Reach out to legal help where you can discuss custody in depth. Check out with your lawyer about various custody scenarios. Also, if you do end up making your mind about separation, avoiding any kind of verbal spat or argument with your spouse is advisable. 
 
 If possible, procure proofs of your wife saying things that you feel are hurtful and harmful to your family. Again, a lawyer would be the better person to guide you with this. Although we all wish to avoid any legal hurdle but if you think it brings a positive outcome for you, your child and your family, then getting that legal help would be your best bet.
  
 Reflect on the above-stated points and discuss it through with your family and a lawyer. Understand your options and support system in order to come to a decision. 
 
 
 
 
