NAGPUR: This has been the season for experienced campaigners, for whom age is just a number. Perhaps taking a leaf out of Roger Federer’s book,   defied age and poor form to rise to the occasion in style at the recently held   at Patna.

 The 28-year-old city shuttler gave a strong reply to critics, who had written her off because of age and series of not-so-impressive recent results, by storming into the women’s singles semifinals at Patna early this week.
 
 A last-four finish in the premier national tournament of India underlined the fact that Arundhati is very much there in the thick of things and she still has the firepower to compete against the young bunch of rivals.
 
 Seeded No. 14 in the tournament, Arundhati recorded three impressive wins before she faltered against eventual champion Rituparna Das in the semis.
 
 She started with a bang by dismissing   of Pune in the first round. After a rather easy second round, Arundhati ran into dangerous   in the pre-quarters. The seventh seed Indore girl has always troubled Arundhati in the last couple of years. But Arundhati, despite losing the first game, displayed tremendous fighting spirit to record a three-game win in just over an hour.
 
 Next day, Arundhati, twice finalists in the Senior Nationals, was up against Saili Rane, who is also a tough nut to crack especially on the slow courts. However, Arundhati showed high level of fitness level in another three-game thriller to knock out Saili in a battle which lasted for an hour and ten minutes.
 
 Arundhati could not continue her dazzling show against her young practice partner at Pullela Gopichand   Academy Rituparna Das. She blamed the organizers for her loss.
 
 “I could not get proper time to recover for my semifinal. I finished my quarterfinal at around 2.30 pm and my semis was the first match of the evening session. There was a gap of barely a couple of hours between the two matches. I must say the scheduling was not right. It could have been much better considering the fact that both quarters and semis are tough matches,” Arundhati told TOI from Chandigarh.
 
 Arundhati is representing her employers ONGC in the Public Sector badminton tournament where they will play semifinal against FCI.
 
 Reflecting on her inspired show in Patna, Arundhati was pretty satisfied with her effort.
 
 “Yes I must say it is a big morale booster for me. I played well this time. Due to schedule problem I lost my semis. But anyway it was a very good tournament for me. I played with lot of patience this time. I hope to continue my form ahead for coming tournaments,” said Arundhati.
 
 The former India No. 1 is planning to play Polish Open and India Open Super Series and few All India ranking tournaments in the coming few months.
 
 Besides Arundhati, Rasika also did well at Patna by reaching quarters. Rasika, who had played semis in the last Nationals at Chandigarh, also lost to Rituparna.
 
 Sarang Lakhani flattered to deceive in the men’s singles third round by losing to eventual champion Sourabh Varma.
 
 
