Surat: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Swachh Bharat Abhiyan has had a little impact on the city’s oldest Bahumali building, a government edifice at Nanpura, which houses several key government offices.  RTI activist Rajesh Modi had a harrowing experience with officials of the roads and buildings department at Bahumali building on Monday. Modi, who has been writing emails and letters to the district collector and the state revenue secretary asking them to bring even Bahumali building under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, was invited to the spot by the R&B department officials. However, the officials, including deputy collector M M Parghi were annoyed when he gave them suggestions on maintaining cleanliness.  Upset with Parghi’s offensive behaviour, Modi dashed off a letter to district collector Mahendra Patel. “All my discussions were in line with improving parking space, taking up swachhta abhiyan forward and creating hygienic conditions at the Bahumali building. To this, the team members became offensive and told me not to question and/or give them advice. I felt it is the duty of government officials to work on Prime Minister’s mission, but the officers felt offended,” he said in his letter. The multi-storeyed building houses offices of the flood control, treasury, the anti-corruption bureau (ACB), sub-registrar, food and drug control, district education officer (DEO), the city survey and town-planning department, district Ayurvedic officer as well as other offices. The moment one enters the gates of Bahumali building, he is greeted by rows of unused government vehicles, including those seized by the local crime branch. The uneven flooring at the premises provides little parking space to visitors. They are forced to park vehicles on the road where the traffic police invariably locks the wheels.  Entering any of the wings means coming face to face with filth and muck on the staircase and the sidewalls which are painted with paan and gutka spitting. Then, dead old furniture can be seen rotting either near the gangway or by the side of the staircase. Many offices look like junkyard. At times, smell of urine emanates from each floor of the buildings as the walls are used by passers-by and visitors to pee when the government offices are shut. There is no emergency exit on the top floors, in case some untoward incident happens in any of the wings at Bahumali building. Hundreds of people visiting the premises are simply left at the mercy of God.  When contacted, deputy collector Parghi refused to talk. He said, “I am in a meeting and won’t be free today”. Even the district collector Mahendra Patel did not pick up the phone. 