Despite there being multiple discussions on gender equality at work and unbalanced responsibilities at home, women are still left with the question – where is equality?   seems to have come up with a solution – share responsibility. At a session called 'Gender Equality Starts at Home', a part of the Mom Achievers Summit, members of Gurgaon Moms discussed the unbalanced responsibilities at home.

 
 Gurgaon Moms said that there is support for gender equality, but disparity still exists because most of the time it remains just a theory. One of the panelists,  , project head,  , said, "When one of my relatives went to stay with her son abroad, she saw him doing the dishes after returning from work. She was shocked. When she complained about it, her son asked her to stay out of it." She added, "For our mothers' generation, it still seems impossible to accept that a man can help at home. But their denial should not stop us from accepting it or letting men do household chores."
 
  Sharing her personal experience,  , a member of Gurgaon Moms, said, "When I got married, I thought it was my duty to make coffee in the morning and when I did my husband said, ‘I can make my own coffee.’ That’s when I realised that I should do it only if I want to and not because I have to."
 
  
  Live telecast for dear husband? (BCCL/   Gautam)
 
 
 The members said that the age old ideas that caring for children is a woman’s responsibility are the things that promote inequality.  , director, TiE, who calls himself a 'morning mother', said, "My wife’s office hours are different and most of the time she is out of town for projects, so I have to take my son for meetings, and sometimes even for office get-togethers. Once, I called my mother and said, 'I am really sorry.' She asked me, 'Why?' I asked, 'Was I a difficult kid?' She replied, 'Not really. But keep saying sorry from time to time.'"
 
 
 The members of the group asked questions like, "What if I am a mom and I really don't like cooking?" to the panelists. One of the panelists replied, "I don't like cooking and my husband does, so if I intervene in his domain I will be keeping him away from his passion." The panelists said that it's all right to be a woman and not be interested in daily kitchen chores. The moms in the audience later pointed out how they wish that the men of the house were present to listen to that piece of advice.
 
  
  Kanta Singh
 
 
 
