AMRITSAR: The hot seat of Lambi in Muktsar district, the constituency of five-time chief minister   and a traditional Akali stronghold could witness the mother of all battles in the Punjab assembly elections with state   chief Captain   on Saturday announcing his intention of taking on senior Badal in his territory.

 Badal, who was elected to the Punjab assembly from Lambi in 1997, 2002, 2007 and 2012, filed his nomination papers from Lambi on Saturday for the fifth time in a row. While Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) had announced Badal as its candidate from Lambi, Congress still has to come out with its nominee for the constituency.   (AAP) has fielded its Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh from Lambi.
 
 Addressing the media in Amritsar on Saturday, Amarinder said he would seek the nod from the party high command to contest against the SAD patron. The former CM had earlier contested and won from Amritsar Lok Sabha seat against Union finance minister   in 2014. Amarinder told newspersons said he was prepared to challenge Badal senior from the Lambi seat with the aim of decimating the top Akali leadership. “To defeat Badals, I am ready to take on Parkash Singh Badal on his turf,“ he said, while alleging that the top Akali leadership was responsible for destroying the youth of Punjab and turning them into drug addicts.
 
 Blaming Akalis for allegedly taking the help from the go ons during the elections, Amarinder accused them of allowing anti-social elements to escape from the Nabha jail in November 2016. He also warned that, if voted to power, his government would probe all Akali scams and punish every person found guilty of any criminal deed, especially drug trade.
 
 Targeting Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener  , the former   said, “Kejriwal was with the income tax (I-T) department in Delhi and ran an NGO fina nced by  , which in turn was financed by the CIA... This is his (Kejriwal's) background.“
 
 
 
 
 Congress is planning to take the wind out of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) sails by putting up formidable fights in Lambi and Jalalabad, the seats of Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal and his son Deputy CM Sukhbir Badal., reports Vibhor Mohan .Congress may field cricketer-turned-politician   from Jalalabad.
 
