JALANDHAR: The district consumer disputes redressal forum here has ordered the railway ministry and   to pay a compensation of Rs 25,000 to a local resident who had sued the  , alleging that he got cervical spondilytis due to strong jerks in the “premium coach” of the Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi when he travelled on it in February 2015.

 District forum president Karnail Singh and member Parminder Sharma in their order on September 20 held that deficiency in service on part of the Railways had been established as the heavy jerks in the train were also established from complaints filed by different persons in the complaint register of the train, who were not even known to the complainant. A local resident, Raman Dutt, in his complaint filed in April 2015 had mentioned that a perusal of the complaint register available in the train revealed that several passengers had earlier written their complaints in it but no remedial measures had apparently been taken.
 
 Dutt had mentioned in his complaint that he had earlier travelled from September 7, 2012, from Delhi to   in the executive class coach and experienced strong jerks, which had an impact on the back and neck. He mentioned that he lodged a complaint in the register being carried by the travelling ticket examiner (TTE) and mentioned that there appeared some fault in the coach and such strong jerks were having adverse impact on the back bone and could lead to serious problems.
 
 While travelling in the same train from Delhi to Jalandhar in the same class on February 17, 2015, he again had the same experience, which caused pain in his body neck and lower back. Other passengers also expressed their discomfort even as they had paid almost double fare than the AC chair car of the Shatabdi. He again lodged a complaint in the register and found that earlier also passengers had lodged similar complaints.
 
 After his return he had to see a doctor and was diagnosed with cervical spondylitis. Alleging that he suffered this problem due to the jerks in the train travel, he claimed damages, compensation, litigation fee, his expenses on the treatment totalling Rs 1.55 lakh from the Railways. Railways secretary, Northern Railway and Jalandhar station superintendent were made respondents in the complaint.
 
 “From overall circumstances it is established that the complainant is entitled the partly relief as claimed in the complaint,” the forum said while ordering the Railways to pay him a compensation of Rs 20,000 and litigation expenses of Rs 5,000.
 
