Panaji: Despite a large ageing population, the lack of awareness, the stigma associated with   and the myth that there’s no hope for those afflicted with it, continue to prevent families from seeking help for their aged loved ones.

 But, there’s good reason to get a patient who is showing signs of dementia, assessed. Besides medical assistance, they can be provided with specialized care and equipped with practical skills to help them improve their quality of life.
 
 Caregivers aware of their condition are also in a better position to help them and attend to their needs. Institutions are reaching out to both those struggling with dementia as well as family members to help both cope with the disease.
 
 Under the geriatric and dementia program of Cooj Mental Health Foundation, volunteers have been visiting old age homes to help the senior citizens whose mental needs are often neglected. Volunteers work with the elderly in the home, twice a week over a period of eight months, conducting exercises, holding art and craft sessions, music therapy sessions, cognitive games and taking the inmates outdoors.
 
 Aarti Sinha, coordinator for elder care at the foundation, says the staff at the homes are also trained to continue the activities for the inmates and care for those showing signs of dementia. The programme has already been conducted in three old age homes in the north.
 
 A senior therapy day care centre set up by the foundation in Bastora three months ago, has senior citizens visiting thrice a week for simple physical exercises, music sessions, games and other stimulating activities. Keeping one’s mind and body active is integral to preventing and delaying the onset of dementia, Sinha says. To diagnose and treat senior citizens with memory problems, the foundation has also set up a memory clinic recently. 
 
 Dr Amit Dias, department of preventive medicine at Goa Medical College and founder secretary of the Dementia Society of Goa, says there are an estimated 44 million people with dementia worldwide with 4.1 million in India alone, busting the myth that dementia is a disease of the west. There are more than 5,000 people in the state living with dementia, where the most prevalent form is Alzheimer’s disease.
 
 Families are often reluctant to get help for their loved ones and seek assistance only when the disease has manifested itself and has reached an advanced stage. A high number of cases are reported by senior citizens or their caretakers, Dias says.
 
 
