New Delhi: As the evening sky over Red Fort turned greyish blue, loud cheers went up. Prime Minister   accepted an ornate bow and aimed an arrow at the three glitzy paper behemoths. The bow broke, but it was only a minor hiccup as the PM, with characteristic aplomb, hurled the arrow at the demons with his hand. It may not have the method chosen by Lord Ram to vanquish Ravana, but the masses at the Shri Dharmik Leela Committee’s   celebrations were ready to suspend disbelief at the annual reiteration of good’s victory over evil.

 As the effigies of Ravana, Kumbhkaran and Meghnad caught fire amid the sharp rat-a-tat of fire crackers, loud cheers went up. Around the same time, across the city, with similar cheers and fiery spectacles, the capital’s people performed the valedictory ritual of the 10-day Dussehra festival.
 
 With a white-clad PM by his side, President Ram Nath Kovind had already latched on to elements from the Ram legend to draw parallels for a nation trying to move into a modern ear. “Ram Setu became a reality because everyone in the Vanara sena collaborated in building a bridge. As a nation, we too have to collaborate and work together for the welfare of our society,” said Kovind.
 
 The PM took up this theme too. “Festivals are a reflection of our social values,” he began. “Celebrating them together is a way in which to imbibe values related to the welfare of our people. Let each of us resolve that by 2022, we will contribute as a citizen to the welfare of our country and I assure you, we will achieve great heights together.”
 
 The Shri Dharmik Leela Committee’s 94th Ram Lila event was, as customary, attended by VIPs. Present along with the President and PM were vice-president M. Venkaiah Naidu, former PM  , Union ministers Harsh Vardhan and Vijay Goel and Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari. They performed an aarti and daubed vermillion marks on the foreheads of the actors playing the roles of Ram, Lakshman and Hanuman.
 
 Also in the neighbourhood were other VIPs. John Abraham was in the company of BJP president Amit Shah at the function organised by the Luv Kush   Committee. A few paces away,   vice-president Rahul Gandhi was the guest at Nav Shri Dharmik Lila Committee’s event.
 
 Delhi CM   picked up the bow and arrow at the Indraprastha Ramlila Committee’s Ravana dahan celebrations. As has become a custom in the past few years, there was a fourth effigy there in addition to Ravana, Kumbhkaran and Meghnad. Selected to represent the year’s villainy, the effigy this time represented terrorism. With a wide smile, Kejriwal reduced it to ashes.
 
