KOCHI: Following the   guidelines to ensure a pollution-free environment for the players taking part in the  , the state government has begun taking temporary measures to reduce   in and around the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in Kaloor. The Kerala State Pollution Control Board ( ) will put up a temporary air monitoring facility inside the stadium by the month-end to monitor the a pollution in the area.

 “We are setting up three monitoring stations and two display units which will show the air quality for all to see. A control room is also being set up for the purpose,“ said KSPCB chairman K Sajeevan. Three high-volume samplers for dust monitoring, an equipment for checking gases like ammonia, sulphur dioxide and a mini-laboratory will also be set up for onsite analysis.
 
 The board has directed the Kochi Corporation, the GCDA and the Regional Transport Office ( ) to take precautions to curb air pollution in the area around the stadium. The move comes after the Union sports ministry and the central pollution board directed the KSPCB to ensure adequate air quality at the stadium.
 
 The facilities will be set up by September 28 and will be in place for more than a month till the games get over. “The pollution levels will be displayed real-time and any changes will be addressed and possible measures will be taken immediately ,“ said Sajeevan.
 
 The board has asked the RTO to ensure that vehicles which do not have valid pollution under control certificates should not be allowed to move along the roads at the stadium premises. “The RTO should make arrangements to minimise vehicles idling in the area," said M A Baiju, regional chief environmental engineer.
 
 The corporation has been asked to keep wetting the roads regularly to control the clouds of dust and keep it under limits. It would also have to shut commercial establishments running without proper pollution control measures and shops which have installed diesel generators.
 
 During an inspection of the stadium on September 11, the PCB officials reported that a lot of dust has accumulated over the stadium structure, especially at the top of the gallery . “The monitoring equipment will be installed near to this place,“ PCB chairman said. It also suggested that exhaust pipes of diesel generator sets installed along the backside of the stadium and other generator sets, if any, be raised to sufficient height. Officials said that watering (wetting) of the stadium premises should be done regularly. The PCB said that setting up the equipment and other logistics would cost about Rs 10 lakh.“We would be seek funds from either the ministry or the GCDA,“ Sajeevan said.
 
 A team of threeto -four staff will be on duty 247 from September 28 when the trial phase of the monitoring will begin. As of now, the closest stations, which monitor ambient air quality in that area are at South Overbridge and Vyttilla. A new permanent station is coming up at Madhav Pharmacy Junction, which will inaugurated on October 5.
 
