By 
 

 With   on its way, severe water issues are anticipated in the coming days. This is again the time Benglureans start looking for as many   as possible and that’s when it rings a warning bell to most of us: “Are there even enough   left?”
 
  
  
 
 
 Hundreds of city trees were saved from the wrath of the axe. It’s a big leap by the citizens, but a small step towards a better environment.
 
 Why do I say so? Because there is another issue which needs as much or even more of civic activism to get sorted out -- the diminishing lakes of Bengaluru.
 
 The city which had sprawling green cover and beautiful lakes is now doing everything to get rid of the very things that it was proud of before (knowingly or unknowingly).
 
 Before things go out of our hands, and we are left with nothing but barren patches of lands that were once lake bodies, we all must wake up and save each and every lake of our Bengaluru.
 
 As obvious as it may sound, lakes are extremely important for a city. In Bengaluru, these lakes have helped in recharging groundwater, proved to be biodiversity hotspots of a kind, and provided several ecosystem services.
 
 As a person associated with the Jakkur Lake rejuvenation, I can point out what made it a success.
 
 The lake was revived by the BDA (Bangalore Development Authority), but with wonderful work by the citizens and their collaboration with the agencies.
 
 The Jakkur Lake may not have had several serious issues that are haunting other lake bodies in Bengaluru, like Bellandur Lake and others.
 
 But efforts in the right direction proved to be a lake-saver in this case. The process to keep a lake safe never ends, and even with Jakkur Lake, it is still underway. There is, however, no urbanisation issues, no debris dumping, and home-guards security for the lake keep it working.
 
 Today, it has actually turned into a biodiversity hotspot, something similar to Ranganathittu Birds’ Sanctuary.
 
 
 OPERATION LAKE-RESCUE
 
 The Jakkur Lake rescue may be the one leading the way, but as it had its unique problems – different from other lakes – I am not sure if it can be a model for other lake revivals. Jakkur is much smaller compared to others, very much within a single ward. But the methods used in the cause are definitely that can be adopted to save our lakes.
 
 For Bengalureans to rescue their lakes, the key without a doubt is citizen participation. There is no dearth of that, I believe, but what will give it a positive direction is communication and building a rapport with all the agencies.
 
 We, at Jakkur, did just that, from keeping the agencies in the loop to regular follow-up of the cause, even if it meant 10 calls every single day.
 
 The Jakkur community numbering more than 200 people had turned into eyes and ears of the authorities. That kind of feedback and rapport contributed grandly towards a better water body in the locality.
 
 These lakes are not just water bodies or environmental treasure, they are also community spaces. Looking at them through a social and cultural angle will provide a new dimension to the whole cause.
 
 Unless an individual feels they can reap some kind of benefit from it, they will not show much concern.
 
 To bring that sense of ownership, we had educational programmes, not as an environmentalist mode but to save the lake as a community. It was turned into a socio-ecological model involving children, families and corporate bodies to contribute to a space they can call their own.
 
 The fly-over problem was a classic example of what is possible if citizens take to ground and stand for what they believe in. They got on the field and asked the agencies to do something. Those persistent efforts paid off.
 
 This is what we will have to replicate to save our lakes. Intense citizen engagement in collaboration with proactive agencies can create miracles. Let’s hope for one miracle at a time with cleaner and bigger lakes this summer.
 
 — Dr Annapurna S Kamath’s citizen group Jala Poshan adopted the Jakkur Lake in 2014 and made some remarkable progress
 
 * SRIDHAR PABBISETTY, CEO at Namma Bengaluru Foundation
 
 I think replicating a movement like the ‘Steel-flyover beda’ movement for Bengaluru Lakes is very much in order now. The ‘Namma Bengaluru Foundation’ has championed the cause of the lakes of the city for a long time now, be it for Bellandur Lake or the Varthur Lake. In the course of action for the Bellandur Lake, an expert committee was constituted by the government resulting in a report and a blueprint to save the lake. A similar report and exercise must be demanded from the authorities for all the other lakes of the city. When it comes to the protection of city lakes, the agencies have become completely dysfunctional. A local action must be initiated expressing people’s desires so that the authorities wake up. We cannot give up now but must accelerate our efforts if we need to have a sustainable city. The solutions are out there, what we lack is political will and accountability.
 
 The movement against the steel flyover and its success was a proud movement in Bengaluru’s history. We were crying ourselves hoarse for a year against the steel-flyover but only a mass citizen movement called out the inefficiency and indifference of each agency and helped us reach the required solution. For ‘Namma-lakes’ we need to do the same and come out in large numbers and wake the inefficient agencies from their slumbers.
 
 
 **********
 
 * Just the way the Steel-flyover movement took place, we are also trying to find a way to take a united stand for the lakes around Bengaluru. Unless we make noise, nothing happens in this city. We cannot point out why the elected representatives are so apathetic to the pulse of the people they represent, the agencies show no accountability and at the end of the day, everyone is left clueless of how to tackle the whole issue. Every lake in Bengaluru faces the same set of issues- Garbage dumping, pollution, occupied wetlands and grave apathy from the agencies. It’s not just the Bellandur Lake, but lakes like Nallurahalli Lake, Jakkur Lake, each one of them is facing similar issues. The lakes will remain in the same condition unless the citizens take up ownership of them and raise a mass movement like against the steel-flyover. Instead of focusing on each lake individually, we must shake awake the agencies and come up with a common process to reach a solution.
 — SEEMA SHARMA
 Resident of Bellandur and an active  
 
 
 * After the huge fire in Bellandur Lake, there have been incidents of fire but it’s all lost in the chaos. Fumes, fire and smoke have become and everyday affair for residents near Bellandur Lake. As Bellandur
 Lake is not as much in the line of sight as the Ulsoor Lake, the dumping and illegal activities are far more rampant. A central lake responsibility will definitely do the trick and help with issues faced by lakes across the city. Issues like dumping, garbage disposal and even recently the ‘water-mafia’ need to be addressed and for all of this, a concerted effort is needed. Environmental issues are very important to me and when these incidents are preventable, a concrete effort if what we all need.
 — ODETTE KATRAK
 Co-founder Beautiful Bengaluru, trainer, writer and an activist
 
 
 * A mass citizen movement – similar to that against the steel flyover – for the city lakes is an idea that is definitely needed. All the lakes across the city are interconnected and a mass movement involving all the groups makes sense. What happens if an upstream lake has an effect on a downstream lake? So, it does need an integrated effort. There have been efforts by groups, like Friends of Lake and others in the line of this, and a bigger movement is the need of the hour. Like the Dakshina Pinakini rejuvenation, revival efforts need larger attention and centralised efforts.
 — ELANGOVAN KULANDAIVELU, Whitefield Rising lake volunteer
 
 
 
