NOIDA: A 40-year-old  , who turned to crime and was wanted in 34 criminal cases, was arrested by the Noida   (Noida STF) on Saturday evening. The accused, Mathura resident Devendra Kumar, had been sacked for his involvement in criminal activities in 2007.   had announced a reward of Rs 50,000 on his arrest. 

 An STF team had been tracking Devendra for several days. Based on a tip-off, the team was sent to Kagrol in Agra for patrol checks. The accused arrived on a motorcycle. 
 
 When the cops signaled him to stop for checking, he opened fire at them. The police returned fire and arrested him.
 
 Police seized a country-made revolver, two live cartridges and one TVS Apache motorcycle from his possession. 
 
 Raj Kumar Mishra, deputy SP (Noida STF), said Devendra was a Class X passout and was selected as a UP Police constable in 1997. He was posted in Ambedkar Nagar after his joining, and was shifted to Agra next year. Devendra robbed a businessman of Rs 3 lakh in Mathura in 2000. He was arrested, suspended from service and put behind bars for nine months. 
 
 Police said that he made contacts in jail and continued to be involved in criminal activities after he was released. Devendra formed a gang with Harkesh, Hariom, Dharmendra and Dabbu Pandit, whom he had met in jail. The gang started robbing cars, gold and silver jewellery in UP and sold them to unscrupulous buyers in West Bengal. The government terminated his services in 2007 for his involvement in criminal activities. This did not deter the accused. In 2008, Devendra conducted a heist and robbed of 550 kg silver from a Tata Sumo in Firozabad district. In 2009, he again robbed 50 kg silver from a businessman in Agra. Police said that Devendra and his gang members also killed a truck driver who resisted the robbery of a truck loaded with sugar in Madhya Pradesh in 2011.
 
 He was again arrested and imprisoned for two years in 2012. Devendra met Vinod Kumar when he was released from jail in 2014. Kumar was also a constable suspended for criminal activities.
 
 “They again started committing crimes in different districts of western Uttar Pradesh. In 2015, they robbed Rs 50 lakh from a cattle trader in Agra. Devendra was wanted in a total of 34 criminal cases. He will be produced in court and sent to judicial custody on Monday,” Mishra said.
 
 
