NEW DELHI: The government on Friday indicated that product-and service-wise   rates may be announced closer to the rollout date, while finalising nine sets of rules for the indirect tax reform.

 The rules will be released for public comment on Saturday and in at least four cases, they will be finalised after consultation. The GST Council approved five amended rules for the new regime and gave “tentative” nod to the remaining four, finance minister Arun   said after a meeting.
 
 The final nod to the four rules and the GST rates for major commodities and services will be done during a meeting in Srinagar on May 18-19. Sources said that the rates will be released closer to the implementation date as the government wants to avoid any arbitrage opportunity.
 
 Officers will use this period to start working on the rates, the minister said.
 
 “It's good that the rules, tentatively approved by the council, would now be put in public domain for consultation and feedback. Further, the suggestions of various working groups constituted for few sectors will possibly be considered before finalisation of these rules...
 
 However, given the fact that council is meeting next on May 18-19 to finalise these rules and rates would be finalised thereafter, implementing GST from July 1 may be extremely difficult for the Government. One could expect that voice for September 1 implementation would get stronger over next few days,” said Pratik Jain, partner and leader for indirect tax at consulting firm PwC.
 
 Headed by Jaitley and comprising representatives of all states, the GST Council gave final nod for changes in rules for filing tax returns in the new regime, registration of entities, payment of GST, invoicing and refunds to make them compatible with GST laws approved by the   this week.
 
 The remaining rules on how input tax credit is to be calculated and claimed, valuation of supply of goods and services, method for intimation for opting for composition levy and transitional rules were given “tentative” approval. In the registration rules, the changes approved include certification of registration being digitally signed by proper officer and procedure for grant or cancellation of unique identify number.
 
 The changes in rules for filing returns says that certain category of persons need not file annual returns. Also, the requirement of registration of debit/credit card for payment of tax with the GST-network has been omitted from payment rules.
 
 
