Nearly a year ago, a hotelier based out of Begur, 21km from Gundlupet, was called on by a prospective buyer. The latter reportedly offered the hotelier a whopping Rs 4 crore for his reasonably modest 40x40ft property. Admitting to being overwhelmed by the offer, the hotelier said, “It was tempting enough for me to give the offer some serious thought.“

 In the wake of NH-766 -connecting Gundlupet to the tourist hubs Ooty and Waynad district-being upgraded, real estate prices in the town have skyrocketed. Prices have also soared in Begur, a municipality in Gundlupet taluk.
 
 Once a sleepy town resting on the TN-Karnataka border, with its winding lanes corkscrewed across the undu lating landscape, Gundlupet, 57km from Mysuru, has now emerged as the last major town in  .
 
 For the past two years, buyers, mostly from Kerala, have been scouting properties in the town. Gundlu own. Gundlu pet's proximity to Waynad in Kerala, a prominent tourist hub, is another attractive feature that has driven realty prices up. The chang e in Gundlu pet's sky line has b e e n drastic, with many ho tels, lodges and commercial estab lishments dotting the mall town. The recent spurt small town. The recent spurt in commercial activity in the town notwithstanding, Gundlupet retains some of its idyllic charm, and serenity. The  , which runs through the heart of the town, sets the swiftly altering landscape of Gundlupet in stark relief.
 
 “Many people from Kerala are investing heavily in land in Gundlupet. Real estate prices have gone up ever since the highway was upgraded. Also, the large number of tourists that   attracts has seen Gundlupet many hotels and resorts come up in the area,“ said  , who owns a hotel in Begur.
 
 Initially, there were no plans to widen the highway into a four-lane road at Gundlupet. But, owing to pressure from the elected representatives, the corridor was widened in Gundlupet and Begur.
 
 Bandipur has emerged as model place for tiger conservation in India, and consequently, eco-tourism in the area has received a big boost. The locals too benefitted from the ecotourism industry surrounding Bandipur. “Most of the tourists are from the metros, mainly Bengaluru. They want to get soak in the experience of staying close to the jungles, and wildlife by staying at resorts and homestays,“ said a businessman who has also invested in the eco-tourism industry.
 
 A part of the Nilgiris bio sphere, Gundlupet's landscape is a source of pride for its residents. However, unbridled urbanisation has resulted in rising cases of mananimal conflict. Eight of the Bandipur's eleven ranges are affected by the problem of wild animals, mostly elephants, straying into human habitats. Between 2007-08 and 2011-12, eight people and 33 elephants died. While the department has taken efforts to reduce such conflicts, the problem persists. The area has also been witness to incidents involving tigers.
 
