KASHIPUR, US NAGAR: Amid protests over police’s role in the   of  , a 16-year-old boy who was found hanging in a   in   on Tuesday, a scraggy rope which hung by a thin rod in the room in which Raza was found hanging was finally sealed as an ‘evidence’ in the case on Friday evening. In another shocking revelation, Raza's father told TOI that the room where cops said they found his boy hanging wasn't the room in which he had left his son an hour earlier. 

 “I fed dinner to my boy around 7.45-8pm on the fateful day. Within an hour, we got news of his demise. The police threw his body like he did not have any family. We got the information from someone else,” said Mohammad Yamin, the aggrieved father.
 
 A shopkeeper in the vicinity of the police post and a couple of people who live nearby said they heard sounds of someone being beaten. The boy was later taken to hospital in an e-rickshaw and “dumped” there. Doctors proclaimed him dead on arrival.
 
 On the condition of anonymity, a 52-year-old man who lives close to the police outpost, said, “We are used to regular cries and yells from the outpost and the room, which has now been done up to look like an office with chair, table and files impaccebly placed on it, is infamously known and ‘pitai wala kamra’ among the locals.”
 
 The teenager's friends from school said all he wanted to do was play cricket and play with his newly acquired android phone. In fact, two words most used to describe him were "quiet and shy". Shehzad Chaudhary, his friend from his schooldays, recalled, “My friend was good in studies and did not speak much. He liked smart phones and loved playing cricket. Also he wanted to sport long hair but his parents got them cut everytime he tried.”
 
 It also transpires now that he had nothing to do with the girl's "abduction". She was, in fact, in an affair with his friend, not him. Raza, almost everyone who knew him said, showed absolutely no signs of being suicidal and had no reason to suddenly kill himself. “The girl went missing on February 24 after which his father approached the police. The police detained the minor boy. In their bid to cooperate with the probe, the family of the boy themselves handed him over to the cops. The missing girl’s location was last traced reportedly somewhere around Lucknow and Barabanki,” said Mujib Ahmed, a local lawyer involved in the case.
 
 Responding to serious allegations, Udham Singh Nagar senior superintendent of police Avodai Senthil K Raj S told TOI, “The matter is under investigation. The case has been filed against the accused and the post-mortem report is awaited.” No arrests have been made in the case so far as all accused are absconding.
 
 A case has already been filed against five, including four policemen, under IPC’s sections 302 (punishment for murder), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement) and 201 (causing disappearance of   of offence, or giving false information to screen offender). Accused policemen have been suspended.
 
