NEW DELHI: The CBI is investigating former   finance minister   for the clearance he gave Malaysian firm Maxis to buy 100 percent of Aircel, the investigating agency told the Supreme Court today.

 The CBI also said it had made this known to BJP leader  , when he asked about the issue. The BJP MP has said   illegally granted Foreign Investment Promotion Board clearance to the Rs 3500-crore Aircel-Maxis deal in 2006.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Swamy had filed a petition in the top court on the issue and last month was asked by it show "
  " of Chidambaram's role in the alleged illegality.
 
  Also today, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) too submitted to the apex court a sealed envelope containing the status report of the investigation into the controversial acquisition of Aircel by Maxis.
 
 The next hearing in the case is scheduled for May 2.
 
 Earlier this month, a special court dropped all charges against former telecom minister  , his brother   and others in the Aircel-Maxis deal cases lodged by the CBI and the ED. Last month, when the SC asked Swamy for proof on Chidambaram's alleged illegal action, he said his petition had nothing to do with the discharge of the Maran brothers in the Aircel-Maxis deal case
 
 "What I want is a probe into Chidambaram's role for the two-fold illegalities committed by him. One, no foreign firm was permitted to acquire 100% stake in an Indian company, whether directly or indirectly. Two, the total deal was worth Rs 3,500 crore and Chidambaram could not have accorded Foreign Investment Promotion Board permission without mandatorily sending it to Cabinet committee on economic affairs (CCEA)," he said.
 
 "Issuing notice on your petition is no big deal. We can issue notice to the smallest and the biggest or the highest. But we do so only when we are satisfied that there is at least some prima facie proof of involvement," a bench of Chief Justice J S Khehar and Justice N V Ramana and Justice D Y Chandrachud said. Swamy exuded confidence that he would produce documentary proof to show Chidambaram's role in "inappropriately and illegally" permitting Maxis to acquire 100 per cent stake in Aircel.
 
 
