Every day during her morning walk at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium ground, Anjali Krishnan would be greeted by the sight of a group of people laughing their hearts out. 

 She would wonder as to what tickles their funny bones and it was this curiosity which took her to the ‘laughter yoga’ club. The experience changed her life for good, and taught her how to start the day with a positive smile, she says. On   today, we find out what laughter yoga is all about, how there's so much to it than just loud cheers and chuckles.
 
 Sunilkumar S V, a trainer of laughter yoga in Kochi says that laughter yoga involves proper breathing and a lot of playfulness. “It is the same as yoga, and we do all the exercises. The only difference is that all of it is done while laughing all the way.”
 While onlookers might tag it as trivial, a hearty laugh can actually have a lot of health benefits, adds Sunil. “The amount of oxygen and carbon dioxide you inhale and exhale increase five-fold. This in turn enhances your facial muscles, and you will age slower. Doing this for an hour will make you feel like there are 36 hours in a day.” 
 
 Simon Edapally, another trainer, agrees. “The right intake of oxygen helps pump blood to all parts of the body, thereby making you resistant to all diseases,” he says. Simon and Sunil teach around 107 types of laughter. “It has even cured people of tumour, ear pain and many other diseases miraculously,” he claims.
 
 The laughing exercises have names as quirky as the exercise itself — Japan Laugh, One Meter Laugh, Guru Laugh, Bird Laugh, Yawning Laugh, Namaste Laugh, Generator Laugh, and Toothless Laugh, to name a few.
 Thus, while the stadium premises are mostly composed of people who jog and sweat it out, this group conquer stress through laughter. “When you are involved in other fitness activities, the mind wanders. But laughter arrests your mind,” says Simon.
 Boney Kannoth, a life skills trainer, has a gym for emotional health, and laughter yoga is one among his key areas. “Feel-good hormones such as Oxytocin and Endorphin, among many others are stimulated when people express love and feel loved. Laughter instils positivity. Initially one has to fake the laughs, but just as they say thoughts become real, unconsciously you start to laugh wholeheartedly.”
 
 For ex-Navy personnel Binoy P Samuel, this is also a great platform to ease off negativity and meet people from various social strata. He says, “A lot of interaction happens between us, and it leads to inclusion of more people in your life.”
 Many people have forgotten to smile in today's world, and are entrapped in the virtual world, says businessman R K Abraham. “Laughing often will cleanse the mind and soul.”
 
 He adds, “I moved to Kerala from Karnataka, and because I did not have a wide friends’ circle, my stress levels were shooting up. However, during my frequent walks at the Changampuzha Park, I noticed the laughter groups, and felt that it could help me. I joined them.”
  Practising laughter in a group infuses positivity into everyone, says Boney. “All you need is a bunch of positive minded people, who don’t believe the myth that unrestrained laughter will lead to a tragic event. A sense of humour and a playful attitude will help.” 
 So, on this Laughter Day, laugh your heart out, and live life to the fullest!
 
