KOLKATA: The two tunnel boring machines (TBM) of East-West   will now go past two of the three protected monuments —Magen David and Beth-El Synagogues — without causing any structural distress to the monuments. This puts to rest Archaeological Survey of India’s fears that the heritage structures could be damaged because of the effects of tunnel boring.

 The three protected monuments (the third one being Currency Building) had almost derailed the E-W Metro project till the Calcutta high court resolved the issue.
 
 The first TBM has crossed both the synagogues under stringent monitoring carried out by the construction agency Afcons and experts from IIT-Kharagpur. “Beth-el Synagogue is now within the influence zone of the second TBM, which has crossed Magen David and will cross Beth-El in a couple of days. The structural parameters of both the synagogues are sound. Both ASI and IIT-Kgp are satisfied with the results. The earth-settlement and impact of vibrations are well within limits,” said KMRC general manager (administration) A K Nandy. 
 
 The Ancient Monument and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act (AMASR) prohibits any construction within 100m radius of any protected monument. The E-W Metro corridors passes through the prohibited zone of these three monuments. This is why KMRC, the executing agency of the project, could not obtain the mandatory no-objection-certificate (NoC). 
 
 Only after Justice Dipankar Datta sought the cabinet secretary’s clarification on how similar heritage hurdles could be overcome in Delhi did the ASI issue NoC, imposing some stringent conditions. 
 
 Driving the TBM past Magen David was the biggest challenge for the engineers as the machine came the closest to it — only 9.8m away. While Beth-El is 17m from the tunnel, Currency Building is 85m away. “Now, we are confident of moving ahead without causing any problem to heritage structures on the way,” said an Afcons engineer.
 
 After these two heritage hurdles are over, there will be only one protected monuments to negotiate with — Currency Building. “Apart from these centrally protected monuments, there are state listed heritage buildings of equal importance. We will be taking similar measures for them as well,” said KMRC officials.
 
 The TBM will have a number of heritage structures within its influence zone. They include St Andrews Church (11m from the Metro alignment), Writers’ Buildings (24m-23m), and Raj Bhavan (about 8m to the right). In fact, a closer look at the detailed project report reveals that part of the historical Lal Dighi would be required to construct a metro station.
 
