Ahmedabad: The   government has not been paying Employees’ Provident Fund for workers of its bodies implementing various schemes of the central government and the state government. Nearly 50,000 employees are working for government-run bodies to implement various schemes. For example, the National Rural Health Mission ( ) has a workforce of nearly 12,000 and Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) has around 6,000 employees working to implement the Abhiyan.

 Further, societies working for rural development and, those in the healthcare sector such as district development authorities; Gujarat Cancer Society; and ex-Servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS) have also not paid EPF for thousands of their employees, official sources said. Nearly 15,000 employees are working without benefit of EPF, the sources said. Also, traffic jawans employed by the Ahmedabad Traffic Education Trust and employees working in various societies of the state secondary education board are also deprived of EPF. The number of such employees may touch 20,000 across the state, sources said. State secretaries and even the city police commissioner have been intimated about the problem.
 
 Ahmedabad region of the   has already sent numerous notices to the state-run societies but no action has been taken by officials so far.
 
 Ajeet Kumar, regional provident fund commissioner, confirmed the problem and said that these societies were exempted from EPF under Section 14 of the EPF Act up to April 1, 2015. But even after that, they had not started paying EPF for their employees. Kumar added that these societies have to pay EPF to their employees with retrospective effect from April 2015.
 
 The societies need to register their employees with Universal Account Number (UAN) and disburse the EPF benefit before March 31 this year, Kumar said 
 
 Digitization of life certificate
 
 In line with ‘Digital India’ campaign, the EPFO-Ahmedabad region, has started digitization of life certificate that has to be produced by a pensioner every year. Under the ‘Digital Life Certificate’ scheme, the pensioner will just have to connect his Adhaar number and he can register his presence each year by approaching the nearest Nagrik Seva Kendra, whose address he can get by sending the SMS, ‘JPL’, with his pin code to 7738299899. Gujarat has 1.32 lakh pensioners.
 
 Voluntary disclosure scheme for defaulters
 
 The EPFO has come up with a Voluntarily Diosclosure Scheme (VDS) from January 1 this year for employers who have not been paying EPF to their employees. The employers who have not paid provident fund from April 1, 2009 to 31 December, 2016, have to disclose this before March 31. If they do not pay by March 31, then they will be prosecuted by the EPFO. The penal action for defaulters include penalty upto 100 % on the due EPF amount and imprisonment from three to five years, officials said.
 
