NEW DELHI: Australia walloped a hapless India to register their first Test win here since 2004 and take 1-0 lead in the four-match series in Pune on Saturday. Chasing 441 on Day 3 of the first Test, India crashed to 107 all out – two less than what skipper   scored in Australia's second innings - to suffer a 333-run defeat. The crushing loss is India's first at home in 20 Tests. 

 Australian spin twins Steve O'Keefe (6/35) and Nathan Lyon (4/53) combined to end India's misery in 33.5 overs on a surface where the two teams put up contrasting performances. O'Keefe finished with excellent match figures of 12/70 – the best by an Australian bowler in India. 
 
 That Australia were able to subject India to one of their worst defeats in Test cricket was largely the work of O'Keefe and a fighting century from Smith. India were outplayed in every department. They would be more hurt by the fact that it were the visiting spinners who exploited the conditions better unlike their Indian counterparts who constantly beat the outside edge without success.
 
 O'Keefe maintained his stranglehold over India with his second five-wicket haul of the match taking his tally to 12 wickets. Chasing 441 was always going to be a herculean task and the abrasive track made it almost an improbable proposition. Murali Vijay and KL Rahul wasted a review each to be out lbw to O'Keefe and Lyon respectively. Virat Kohli then left one that didn't turn as the ball uprooted the stumps. O'Keefe was rightly mobbed by his teammates for that prized scalp. 
 
 Ajinkya Rahane offered a simple catch in the covers and  , who came to bat ahead of Wriddhiman Saha, was out lbw to become O'Keefe's 10th victim after Australia successfully reversed the not out decision. Saha (5) fared no better with O'Keefe completing his second five-wicket haul of the Test. Cheteshwar Pujara was the only one to offer some resistance but was soon out after tea for 31.
 
 Lyon wiped the tail with the scalps of   (3), Ishant Sharma (0) and Jayant Yadav (5) as Australia completed a comprehensive win. 
 
 Smith completed an excellent century in the morning on a rank turner to set the stage. This was his fifth Test century against India in as many games and 18th overall.
 
 Smith was handed yet another life, fourth of the innings, when an edge went past Rahane at leg slip. Luck was definitely on his side but that shouldn't diminish the manner in which he applied himself in difficult conditions. He judged the length well and stayed calm despite having to fight the vicious turn every next ball which got the better of him quite often. A late cut off Jadeja for four took him to 98 and a couple to his maiden century on Indian soil. The pumped up celebration that followed made it clear how much it meant to him.
 
 That he was able to reach three figures was also because of the support he received from the other end. His overnight partner   fell early (31) but not before a 56-run stand for the fifth wicket. Then came Matthew Wade, with whom Smith added a further 35. While India must be ruing their luck, they must have learnt the importance of judiciously using their reviews when Wade clearly edged one to the 'keeper but stayed put and India couldn't challenge the not out decision having exhausted both their reviews on Day 2 itself. That didn't cost them much as two balls later, he again was caught behind and this time, he walked back for 20. 
 
 Mitchell Starc continued having fun with two fours and three sixes in an entertaining knock of 30. His 42-run association with Smith broke when Jadeja had Smith lbw for 109 but by that time, he had taken the lead past 400 runs which ultimately pushed India towards a first Test defeat at home in four years.
 
 
 105 and 107 (Pujara 31; O'Keefe 6/35) lost to 
 260 and 285 (Smith 109; Ashwin 4/119) by 333 runs
 
 
 
 
