CHENNAI: Caretaker chief minister 
  has cast a shadow over the   of   as   Sources said   may not respond immediately even if Sasikala stakes claim.

 Government sources said a few ministers were informed about Rao coming to Chennai on Wednesday afternoon. "Following this, preparations for the ceremony were in full swing at the centenary auditorium of the University of Madras. Now the situation has changed," said a senior government official. Stepping out of the Poes Garden residence past 1am, 
  . "All our MLAs are of the same view. For four days in the assembly, we saw OPS and leader of opposition laughing together," she said in her first interaction with the media. OPS will be expelled from the party, she added. He said he digested everything to uphold the party discipline and didn't want history to project him in bad light. As he spoke, party workers raised slogans hailing him as "Amma's CM" and denouncing Sasikala.
 
 Panneerselvam said Sasikala wanted presidium chairman E Madhusudhanan as general secretary. It didn't happen as "I opposed it," he said.
 
 About the events leading to Sasikala's election as general secretary, he said, a few days after 
  , Sasikala's brother Divakaran sent a message through health minister C Vijayabaskar that Sasikala be made general secretary. OPS said he talked to other cabinet colleagues about it and conveyed the message to Sasikala that senior leaders fell she should take over party reins.
 
 He said when Udhayakumar, Sellur Raju and Sengottaiyan insulted him, he brought it to Sasikala's notice. "The government would face a crisis if the governor asks me to prove majority in the House, I pointed out. She called me later and said Udhaya Kumar had been told not to repeat it," he said.
 
 “Sellur Raju walked into my chamber expressing shock over Udhaya Kumar's demand, but in Madurai, Raju himself raised the same demand,“ said OPS. All that happened when people appreciated his administration for its handling of Vardah relief work and water crisis. “It obviously caused irritation for a few,“ he said.
 
