JODHPUR: Two-day state level   began here on Sunday with chief minister   heading the meeting. About 225 members of the committee are participating in this meeting, which is being seen as the party gearing up for election mode. 

 Beginning with the inaugural session, many political proposals were passed by the party leaders in appreciation of the initiatives taken by the state government and the new schemes rolled out for the welfare of the people of the state.
 
 In his presidential address, Ashok Parnami said that the Rajasthan government has left no stone unturned in realization of the philosophy of "Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas".
 
 "All cross the country,   has instilled a trust in the people that only BJP could lead the country to a fast paced growth and development in all spheres, which was evident by the recent victories," he said.
 
 He also appreciated Raje for finally striking the refinery deal on the terms and conditions, favourable for the state unlike the previous agreement executed by   government. This delay saved a staggering Rs 40,000 crores of the state.
 
 Speakers in the meeting also included  , state associate in-charge Gopal Shetty, national associate-general secretary (organisation) V Satish and in-charge (Gujarat) Bhupendra Yadav, who called upon the workers to strengthen the organization and get in touch with booth level workers in conveying the works done by the party in three years of rule in the state.
 
 The meeting will continue on Monday morning wherein discussions on some economic proposals like GST and ohter issues, will be conducted besides discussions on organization structuring and strengthening.
 
 After which, Raje will be heading a road show organized by the district BJP unit. This road show will have Raje mounted on an open jeep and pass through the walled city as a gesture of celebration of the agreement on refinery, which remained stalled for three years.
 
 Before this, Raje arrived in Jodhpur on Sunday afternoon to attend this meeting and headed straight to the venue of the meeting, where top state party leaders welcomed her. 
 
 
