Director   likes making movies that he would like to watch as a moviegoer — one with a variety of options to suit all tastes. And that is what he has on offer with his second film,  , which is slated to release this week. The filmmaker tells us about his second outing in  , what one can expect from this film and what he has lined up next…

 
 
 My first film (Mr & Mrs Ramachari, starring   and  ), was a great start for me, as Yash was a big star at the time. With Raajakumara, I am again working with a star (Puneeth). The journey has been good. I want my stories to reach a maximum number of people, which is why I need a hero who can help me do that. I made   with heart and soul, and without any expectations. While a person’s first film is a tester, the second one decides his career and future moves. After Ramachari, I have another mammoth project in hand; the excitement for Raajakumara is double than what it was for my first film. Personally, I enjoy watching films like Ramachari and Raajakumara. To me, a film should be like a thaali, with a range of elements. So, if I don’t like the other dishes, I can always have rasam and rice. Raajakumara is like a thaali, but the menu is bigger.
 
 
 
 Yes, but there will be nothing out of the box. Puneeth will be seen the way people have always wanted to see him. This movie is made from the perspective of a fan and what he/she expects in a   film. I am also an audience member and fan, so the movie has all the ingredients and essence that people want from Puneeth, be it his dancing, action, lines, look or performance.
 
 
 
 Since large portions of the film are based in  , I was hunting for a heroine who looks like the South Indian girl next door. She also needed to be a good performer, and Priya fit the bill perfectly. Also, she looks good with Puneeth and their chemistry is one to look out for. While Sarath Kumar has played father to younger characters before, this is the first time that he has played one to a hero. I can’t reveal too much about his character, but people can look forward to seeing him as a classy NRI father. Having lived in Bengaluru, he knows Kannada, and people have accepted him in Kannada films.
 
 
  
 
 
 My script has many characters and as a director, it is my duty to follow the script. It took a while to cast the people, and then, as people started coming on board, the canvas got bigger. The large star cast is not a gimmick — it is the demand of the script. The tracks of each character end neatly, and each and every character will leave a mark.
 
 
 
 We began shooting for the movie on April 23 in Gold Coast, Australia. Incidentally, the next day was Rajkumar’s birth anniversary, and we were shooting on that day as well. We were surprised when many Kannadigas, wearing Rajkumar T-shirts, turned up on the set to celebrate his birth anniversary with us. That was very emotional.
 
 
 
 ‘What next?’ is still a question that I need to ask myself. People loved the emotions in Ramachari, which is what made me write Raajakumara. I will change the genre for sure with my next film and might do an action film. It all depends on the feedback I receive for Raajakumara. 
 
