LONDON: On a cloudy day in South West London,   did the job of the sun. Sparkling like his Wimbledon whites. Never mind what happened on the other side of the net, the Swiss, who threw in a mix of whispering winners and screaming strokes clinched a record eighth crown at Church Road and 19th Grand Slam title.

 
 
 Federer won 6-3, 6-1, 6-4 against  , who persisted through the 101-minute affair despite a badly blistered foot. The Swiss - 35 years and 342 days ­ who on Sunday became the oldest man to win here in the Open era, closed out the match with an ace. Tears rolled down Federer's cheeks as he raised his arms and raced to the net where Cilic was waiting. The sight of his four children-two sets of twins - eight-year-olds Charlene Riva and Myla Rose and the three-year-old boys Leo and Leni - in matching dresses and blazers, perched on the ledge of his box -brought a fresh bout of tears, the champion wept into his towel. "Better than winning and holding this trophy is being healthy," the soon-to-be 36-year-old said of his awe-inspiring journey of 2017. "It feels magical, winning this tournament without dropping a set. It's just too much, I can't believe it."
 
  
  
 Federer, who won his first Grand Slam title here back in 2003, added, "I believed that I can achieve such heights. It was tough in 2014 and 15 when I lost to Novak (Djokovic) here, but I always believed... If you believe you can go far in your life, you will. I kept dreaming and believing. I hope I can come back and defend the title."
 
 Federer, who thought his kids were perhaps enjoying the view of what they thought was a grand playground, finished with appreciation: "Thank you, family, thank you team, thank you Switzerland, thank you everybody."
 
  
  
 
 It was clear even at love-all that though Cilic, 6ft 6' filled the court from the moment he walked onto it, Federer knew how to use it. He floated on the grass and painted the lines, dropped his wrist and littered winners. The match, shine and sparkle for one man, however, was a stretch for the other.
 
 Cilic, the 2014 US Open winner, who clutched his legs a couple times in the first set, broke down during a change over in the second set. Trailing 0-3 and swinging erratically between tight and exaggerated movement, the Croat wept into his towel. The medical team and tournament supervisor quickly rushed to Cilic's side and talked to the seventh seed. The 28-year-old, playing his first Wimbledon final, however was out of the chair when the umpire called time.
 
 When Cilic took the court he was given a standing ovation by the capacity crowd. It appeared as if the genial Croat had got a handle on things when he held serve in the fourth game. But Federer, who won the Australian Open in January, didn't take his leg off the pedal and broke again in the sixth game. After the Swiss held serve in the seventh game to close the set, the doctor and physio were out on the court again. The Croat, who asked for a medical timeout, took an anti-inflammatory and had his badly blistered left foot taped.
 
 Cilic, in his maiden Wimbledon final, then tried to keep pace with the man, who was playing his 11th final on these lawns. He did well to split the first six games, but Federer struck in the seventh breaking at 15 when Cilic dumped a forehand into the net. The Swiss, who last won here in 2012, then rose to roar of the crowd, serving out the match in the tenth game, closing out on his second championship point.
 
 Federer, who was cheered on by the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, and tennis's royalty  , applauded Cilic for his effort. "It's cruel sometimes," he said, "but you're a hero. Be proud of yourself, hope we can play again down the road in better times."
 
 Cilic, who had thundered down 130 aces en route to the final, managed just five on Sunday and struggled to compose himself. "I have always given my best throughout my career," he said. "I did that today, that's all I could do. I had an amazing journey here, but it was tough for me. 
 
 
