BENGALURU: In the past four years, more than 60 people have died in separate instances of private and government buses catching fire -yet, the   (KSRTC) has neither installed fire safety equipment on board its buses nor trained its staff to respond to emergencies appropriately.

 Tuesday morning's fire, in which one woman died and another has sustained life-threatening burn injuries, is proof of the fact that the cor poration has not learnt its lessons. There was no fire extinguisher on the bus, and though there was an emergency exit, it was not opened during the confusion and panic of the fire. KSRTC officials, however, said the Motor Vehicles Act did not make it mandatory for fire extinguishers to be kept on non-airconditioned buses. They added that they will soon incorporate these safety measures in non-AC buses as well.
 
 When TOI asked KSRTC managing director   Kataria if a fire extinguisher on the bus could have helped cur tail the blaze, he only said, “Probably“. He added that many non-AC buses were plying across the state and rules did not mandate an extinguisher on board.
 
 “However, learning from this incident, we will start the process of installing these facilities in all buses,“ he said. Later in the day, Kataria was transferred from KSRTC to the mines and MSME department.
 
 The preliminary investigation indicated that there was no mechanical problem with the bus, which could have caused the fire. “Only the upper portion of the bus was gutted. We could see the mechanical parts at the bot tom. The engine, battery pit and tyres, parts which often lead to fire, are intact. We suspect that an inflammable substance carried by a passenger caused the fire,“ Kataria said.
 
 Later in the day, transport minister   told reporters that there was nothing wrong with the bus.“The fire was not the cause of any technical issue, it was not the fault of the bus driver or conductor. It is possible that one of the passengers was carrying a bag of dry coconuts that may have caught fire,“ Reddy said.
 
 KSRTC officials said they had asked the police department to investigate. “We have asked them to provide the help of forensic teams to understand what caused the fire. KSRTC engineers are also inspecting the bus,“ Kataria said.
 
 Compensation of Rs 5 lakh has been announced for the woman who died in the blaze and KSRTC said it would cover the cost of medical treatment for all the in jured persons.
 
 While experts concurred with KSRTC's statement that they were not to blame, they did add that the transport corporation should improve its safety measures.
 
 “The bus appears to have caught fire from the middle, which rejects the possibility of something going wrong in the engine. Further, both BMTC and KSRTC have a good process to scrap old buses. So, it means passengers probably carried something they should not have. This can happen with rural commuters who are unaware of what not to carry in a bus.This is also about commuter responsibility,“ said Pawan Mulukutla, urban transport and road safety exper t,  .
 
 “They have to be educated. Bus operators must put up lists of things that can and cannot be carried. Bus operators also have to install technologies such as smoke detection devices to alert drivers and prevent accidents,“ Mulukutla said.
 
