Probably no other Mollywood film in recent times would have had to face the kind of uncertainty in terms of   dates or its fate at the box office as Dileep’s  . With the film now being scheduled to hit theatres on September 28, the jury is still out on how the audience would react.
 
 The other day, writer S Saradhakutty put up a post on her social media page, asking for a boycott of the film and urging “art lovers to proclaim September 28 as a black day”. It soon gained traction with many joining in, calling for the boycott of a Malayalam film probably for the first time in its history.
  
 The writer tells us, “I have nothing against the movie’s director Arun Gopy. In fact, I only have sympathy for him. But my defiance is against the powerful lobby that is using the film to whitewash Dileep’s image and quash the voices of those who oppose him.”
  
 What prompted her to take such a stance, she says, is the audacity of the makers to promote the movie to show that the people of Kerala are with Dileep. “A movie is 2.5 hours long and the actress was assaulted for that long a time. I can’t even think of what she must have endured. And yet members of our film fraternity are queuing up outside the jail and expressing solidarity to  , while never saying a word in support of the actress,” she says. “That is wrong.”
  
 Assistant professor at Sree Kerala Varma College   concurs. “I believe it’s foul to encourage people to watch the movie. Many have unleashed this wave of sympathy for the first-time director and the actor. But we have heard of good movies such as Manhole struggling to find theatres. Where was this so-called ‘duty to good cinema’ and ‘those who worked behind it’ then?” she asks.
  
 Using the people who worked in the film’ as a camouflage is unnecessary, she says. “Those who worked were paid and the fate of the film is not going to affect them in any way,” she says. “Also, the assaulted actress is very much part of the industry, she deserves all the support too. Those in the industry are now trying to trivialise the heinous incident.”
  
 Deepa, though, maintains that she doesn’t endorse the boycott call. “That is each individual’s choice. I will, however, not be watching it,” she says.
  
 People in the film industry, including even those who have been against Dileep, have a contrary view. Director   tells us, “I am against this habit of attacking a movie. Those who are calling for the boycott should understand Dileep has already collected his Rs 2 crore remuneration and completed dubbing. If this film tanks or succeeds, it’s not going to affect the court’s decision.”
  
 The director says that though those calling for boycott are doing to show their support to the actress, they should also “keep in mind that it doesn’t snowball into something irrational”.
  
 Vinayan, however, maintains that he is against the PR campaign in favour of Dileep. “If he is guilty, he will be punished. There’s no use in shadow fighting and bringing a movie down for that. We have to learn to see art as art and crime as crime.”
  
 Others like director   too subscribe to the view that movies and real life incidents should remain separate. “I believe in a cinema hall, the filmmaker gets the audience involved with a story and its characters. That’s the magic of cinema. Whatever happens outside the hall will not matter,” he says.
  
 Ranjith also opines that he is against boycotting a movie or an individual. “It’s an unhealthy trend that makes no sense at all. But people are entitled to their opinions. I sincerely hope that if Ramaleela is a good movie, it becomes a hit as it has unnecessarily been through a lot.”
  
 On viewing art as art, Saradhakutty says that is how it has always been in Malayalam cinema. “We never go to watch movies based on how the actors are in real life. Even when Jagathy Sreekumar was accused of rape, we went to his movies. However, in this case, there’s no sympathy to the victim and the film’s promos are all hell bent in painting the accused as someone who is misunderstood,” she says. “Our minor voices might not create a dent but as part of the feminist politics, we have to raise them.”
  
 Producer M Renjith, from Kerala Film Producers Association, however, opposes the trend of encouraging people to boycott a movie. “The producer of the film has spent crores on the film that was completed before Dileep went to the prison. The producer didn’t commit any crime and he doesn’t have to bear any punishment. Already, the film’s release has been postponed for two months. Those who don’t want to watch the movie can obviously choose not to, but it’s never right to create a group and force people not to watch it.”
 
