Bhopal: The legal age to procure a driving licence is 18. Still, agents continue to help ineligible applicants to secure licences at Bhopal regional transport office as for the last 15 years there has been   in Bhopal. The city has around 12 lakh ‘official’ drivers in the city without the count of minor drivers. 

 On Tuesday, a SUV rammed into a still vehicle and the minor driver managed to run away from the spot. This incident raised questions over the easy availability of licences to minors. 
 
 The official RTO records states, around 5,000 minors have applied for driving licence for non-gear vehicles. This licence is as valid as other licences but does not give the permit to drive any other vehicles apart from non-gear vehicles. 
 
 “Eligibility for driving is tested on the basis of an learning licence online test. After that, the permanent licence can be obtained without any test or procedure,” the regional transport office staff said. 
 
 For getting a permanent licence, only the money and the application matter.
 
 “We have plans to shift the testing track but it is still under construction,” said Sunil Rai Saxena, regional transport officer Bhopal.
 
 During the procedure, the online test can also be skipped by paying a little extra to the agents. 
 
 Surjit Sardana, an applicant at Bhopal RTO said, “Last week I went to apply for my brother’s licence for a moped as he is still in school. We did not have the permission letter from school or parents either so we were sent out of the RTO premises. But there, the aides of the agents keep hovering around the application windows and one of them promised to get us the licence for Rs 300 with application amount of 2000. However we withdrew later.”
 
 On being asked, how students or people apply for licences and get them without verification of certificates, RTO Sunil Rai Saxena said, “We have never come across any such cases of forgery of certificates. For students we take certification from parents or school to give them licence for driving non-gear vehicles. There is no other way to check minors in RTO or those driving on roads.”
 
 The city has not seen any awareness programmes initiated by RTO office to make students aware of their responsibility to obtain a licence for driving non-gear vehicles. 
 
 RTO Kokta ready to welcome vehicles for fitness test, but testing track still missing 
 
 ‘When will Bhopal residents actually be checked for their testing abilities?’ A question that has no answer till now. The main building is ready and the regional transport office might shift fitness check facility by end of March 2017, said the sources. But there is no track yet, though the construction started one and half years ago for the promised automated testing track. After their visit to Mohali testing track in Punjab, MP state transport authority has promised to automated driving test track in Bhopal and in Indore. However, the Indore track has already started. Even, the Raisen district testing track will be inaugurated this month. But, it seems that there is a longer wait for Bhopal. 
 
 The only saving grace about the future RTO office is the huge 5-acre land. This will act as the designated space for impounded vehicles and vehicles coming for permits. The present RTO office does not have the space to accommodate the vehicles and often results in jam near office building premises.
 
 
