PATNA: With four IPS officers set to superannuate on January 31, posts of two more range DIGs will fall vacant in the state. The two range DIGs, who had retired earlier, are yet to be replaced. The superannuation of two more range DIGs will mean that of the 11 ranges in the state, DIGs will be there in just seven ranges.

 While the range DIGs of Bhagalpur and Darbhanga will superannuate on January 31, the range DIGs of Kosi and Munger had retired earlier. 
 
 The four IPS officers who will superannuate on January 31 are IG of   Awadesh Kumar Sharma, Darbhanga range   Sukar Paswan, Bhagalpur range DIG Barun Kumar Sinha and economic offence unit SP Anand Kumar Singh.
 
 Currently, Purnia range DIG Upendra Kumar Sinha and Bhagalpur range DIG Barun Kumar Sinha are handing the additional charges of Saharsa and Munger ranges. The position of DIG in vigilance bureau is also lying vacant. Purnia range DIG was recently promoted to the IG rank. He is, however, yet to assume charge.
 
 In addition, Tirhut range DIG Asgar Imam is also set to retire on March 31 this year. The posts of DIG (human rights) and DIG (administration) are also lying vacant. Apart from Imam, nine more IPS officers would retire in current year.
 
 IG (headquarters and legal matters) Paras Nath refused to comment on fresh appointments and reshuffling in the state police. Nath is also handling the additional charge of IG (budget, appeal and welfare).
 
 Sources said these vacancies might result in a major reshuffle in the state police department soon. After its formation, the Mahagathbandhan government led by CM   has made only minor transfers and postings.
 
 Only two major reshuffles have taken place in the state in the last four years. While one such major reshuffle was effected before the 2014   election, another reshuffling was done prior to 2015 state assembly election. Altogether 49 IAS and 44 IPS officers were transferred by the state government prior to the visit of the   officials for assembly elections. Twenty-one IPS officers, on the other hand, were transferred before the general election. 
 
 
