LUCKNOW: After Shankersinh Vaghela's exit from the   in   and   siding with the   in Bihar, is senior   leader Shivpal Yadav next on the radar of BJP? A sitting SP MLA from Jaswantnagar and younger brother of party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav, Shivpal, has been sidelined within the SP and talking of launching a new front soon.

 Shivpal gravitating towards BJP, with a few more leaders from the camp in his front, would certainly weaken the SP in its strongholds like Etawah and Mainpuri, which BJP may like to wrest from SP in 2019. Of the five   MPs of SP, four are from the Yadav-dominated belt.
 
 Political analysts believe that BJP strategists, given the prospects, would leave no stone unturned to reap benefits of any such move by Shivpal to make gains in Lok Sabha elections 2019. “Pushing Prime Minister Narendra Modi's agenda of a “Congress-mukt Bharat“, BJP in UP would like to reinforce the strategy to have an “SP-BSP-mukt-UP“. On and off, state BJP president Keshav Prasad Maurya could be heard saying the slogan already .
 
 Political insiders say BJP could be aiming to wrest Mulayam Singh Yadav's bastion, Etawah and Mainpuri.
 
 Observers say , if Shivpal deserts SP, BJP would readily support the disgruntled leader and his son Aditya Yadav during Lok Sabha election and even be willing to provide them tickets from Etawah and Mainpuri.
 
 Symbolically, it would be a giant leap for BJP towards making “SP-BSP-Mukt Uttar Pradesh“, a senior party leader told TOI. This would also weaken Team Akhi lesh and prove benefi cial for BJP which is ambitious to repeat term in power in UP.
 
 “And once the BJP is able to send out such a political message, it would give the party a natural advantage across the country since a message from the biggest and most-politically active state will have cascading effect in other states,“ he says.
 
 Also, the BJP, by giving a sidelined Shivpal some respectability , would be able develop a soft corner among the Yadav community , which for around two decades has remained loyal to Mulayam Singh Yadav and Samajwadi Party. Observers also said that may be working towards moving out of the party he founded and established with his elder brother Mulayam Singh Yadav.
 
 While Shivpal feels the separation will be painful, he has been repeatedly requesting Akhilesh since the Assembly elections earlier this year to hand over the reins of the party back again to Mulayam. He has been saying that if this does not happen, he would hit the road by forming a new front.
 
 On Saturday , as two SP MLCs resigned, Shivpal reiterated the same sentiments.He even said that he has no interest in power and that if SP is voted back to power again, it would be Akhilesh who would be the CM.
 
 But insiders feel that it could be mere talk as Shivpal, who has already begun gravitating towards the BJP by not only having voted for NDA's presidential candidate Ram Nath Kovind, but also praising Yogi and for his “pro-poor policies.“
 
