NAGPUR: Case-I: A college going girl was shocked after receiving calls from unknown numbers asking her for sexual favours. It was later found that her morphed pictures were uploaded on the websites by her boyfriend with her telephone numbers. She was thinking of committing suicide after facing harassment.

 Case-II: A man suddenly found that over Rs50 lakh was withdrawn from his bank account without his knowledge. It was later found out that his debit card was cloned.
 
 To tackle growing cases of   frauds, a city-based   has come up with a helpline where such victims can take guidance and address their grievances. It has already started receiving an overwhelming response from the victims. The firm started by engineers Nikhil Khandekar, Sachin Sathe and Saurabh Athawale is receiving calls from not only India, but also from Australia, Dubai and Pakistan.
 
 The trio advices victims of cyber frauds on next plan of action and also helped many of them recover their hard-earned money. For initial advice, they didn’t charge anything and also provided legal assistance from their lawyer Mahendra Limaye, also a cyber expert.
 
 A majority of their complainants are teenage girls, whose photographs are uploaded on the social media by unknown accused. Many of them approached the trio after their mobile phone or Twitter and Facebook accounts are hacked.
 
 Since its inception, the firm is providing cyber forensic service to individuals as well as law enforcement agencies.
 
 “Almost everyone uses technology today, but very few realize the importance of cyber security. If people know basics such as not sharing passwords, ATM pin numbers, or any personal information, cyber crimes would reduce significantly,” Khandekar told TOI.
 
 “We follow strict protocols while lodging complaints from individuals. After an aggrieved person makes contact though the helpline, s/he is asked to visit our portal cyberorgindia.com and write a description of their case. Objectionable photos can also be attached with the complaint to help in investigation. The administrator can communicate with the complainants, updating them with the progress,” Sathe said.
 
 The duo spoke about a Hingna-based steel company that was duped of EUR 50,000 due to use of less secure e-mail servers. “An ex-employee intercepted e-mails between the firm and its client in Germany. We zeroed in on the employee and also managed to recover the money,” they said.
 
 The firm has a cyber forensic lab as well as a classroom which boasts of state-of-the-art paraphernalia, including hardware used for extracting data from computer hard drives, memory cards and mobile phones, and software which can ascertain the authenticity of data procured as evidence.
 
 It has a specially developed ethical hacking software used for teaching Internet security, data acquisition duplication and recovery and identifying malware threats. It also offers a two-day basic cyber security course where people of all ages could enrol.
 
