The Monday Night RAW at the sold out O2 crowd in the London, United Kingdom kicked off with   announcing that he will be the acting GM of Monday Night RAW in Kurt Angle's absence. The 'IT Couple' Miz and Maryse joined Ambrose in the middle shortly. Miz went on to say that a text from Stephanie MacMahon made him the Co-GM of RAW.   joined the fray with a broken left arm after the battle with Roman Reigns at payback. He proclaimed that after he is done with Reigns he wants  . Kalisto interrupted and demanded a match against Strowman and Ambrose duly obliged.
 
 
 
  
 With Miz reeling, the No.1 contender pushed Balor in to the referee while the official was distracted by Maryse. The Co-GM of RAW than proceeded to disqualify Balor handing himself the match. Ambrose though restarted the match and Balor hit Coup de Grace on the Miz after Maryse was banned from ringside and picked up the win.
  
 
 
  
 With a distraction from Bliss' new best friend, Nia Jax, James hesitated going up top and Bliss with a stiff punch to the side of James' head picked the pinfall victory. Bayley, who accompanied James went after Bliss while Jax destroyed James in the ring.
 
  
  
 
 
  
 Strowman was squashing Kalisto before the Big Dog Roman Reigns' music hit and Reigns had Strowman reeling. The duo went through another physical battle with Reigns targeting Strowman's left-arm and with a steel chair in hand Roman forced Strowman to retreat. 
  
 
  
 
  
 Sheamus and Cesaro started the turmoil with Big Cass and   with the team of Swiss Superman and the Celtic Warrior eliminating Cass and Enzo after Enzo tapped out on Cesaro's sharp shooter. Heath Slater and Ryhno were dismantled outside the ring before the match could start. Slater was handed enough punishment and ate the pin after the Brogue Kick. Gallows and Anderson then battled with Cesaro and Sheamus with Gallows getting pinned after a Borgue Kick. Golden Truth was the last team to enter the turmoil but failed to stop the Cesaro-Sheamus juggernaut as they became the number one contender for the RAW tag team after a roll over on R-Truth by Cesaro. 
  
 
  
 
  
 After Rollins inadvertently exposed the turnbuckle trying to counter Joe's move, Joe pushed Rollins towards the exposed steel and despite the referee's repeated warnings, Joe used the turnbuckle as a weapon thus disqualifying himself. 
  
 
  
 
  
 TJP stole one over Galleagher by grabbing the tights on a roll over to earn the pin. TJP then tried to injure Gallagher with a knee bar before   ambushed TJP and saved Gallagher. 
  
 
  
 Banks beat Fox with a middle rope double knee followed by a pin, but replays showed Fox slid her shoulders away before the 3-count. 
  
 
  
 With Miz and Maryse at the commentary table it not take the 'IT couple of wrestling' to interfere in the main event of Bray Wyatt vs Dean Ambrose. Ambrose made the recovery couple of times before Miz was taken out by a suicide dive. Miz though came from behind and blasted Ambrose with the Intercontinental Title and Wyatt hit Sister Abigail to pick up the victory. 
  
 
  
 
 
