KOCHI: Teachers have to be happy,   to spread the same vibes in class and facilitate learning, according to   and performance coach at the Sunrise Hospital,  , Vipin V Roldant. 

 He was speaking on the theme 'Application of Positive Psychology in Classroom' at Times NIE Teachers Meet held on Friday at The Dunes.
 
 The session commenced with gratitude meditation. Around 100 teachers who participated held their hands in 'mandala mudra' closed their eyes, counted their blessings and thanked all who inspired and motivated them till date. After opening their eyes with a smile, teachers were asked to wish each other 'athma namasthe' to share positivity and convert the negative into positive thoughts. 
 
 Thank even the people who behaved unkindly as they helped you grow stronger. Such activities help build cognitive flexibility, he said. 
 
 Many activities were held during the interactive session to spread positivity.
 
 "Teachers should ask themselves whether they have taken challenges, explored their creativity and come up with innovations, are proactive and about their contribution to the school over the last five years. Fears and setbacks have to be jotted down and overcome. Around 32,000 limiting beliefs exist. Behaviour blocks should be identified and resolved. The intelligence, emotional and adversity quotients should be taken into account. The school curriculum should have 'well-being' for boosting mental health," Vipin said.
 
 They must find goodness and happiness (FGH) in everything, accept the person as he or she is and the situation as it is. Happiness, love and gratitude trigger optimism by enhancing chemicals in the brain, help rise to life's challenges and increase productivity. Never give up, he said.
 
 Children should be guided to choose inspiring and motivating friends. Teachers should be the change in schools and motivate children to bring out the best in them and the words, 'I am proud of it, is it proud of me' should ring in their ears. 
 
 The session motivated teachers and helped them unwind. "The session has been enlightening and we look forward to more such sessions," a teacher said. 
 
