GURUGRAM: Ending ambiguity over criteria for issuing occupation certificate (OC) for residential plots,   has made it mandatory to have construction to the extent of 50% of the permissible ground coverage to receive OC, for   in Huda sectors across the state.

 Lack of clarity in the terms and conditions and grounds for issuing OC was a source of corruption in the department. It also caused unnecessary harassment to allottees. To bring clarity in the rule, Huda has amended its   and has done away with the provision of resumption of plot. 
 
 As per the allotment rule for residential plots, Huda allottees had to start construction within two years of allotment. If they failed to complete the construction, they would have to pay extension fee for continuation of allotment. And if an allottee failed to complete the construction 15 years after allotment, it could lead to resumption of plot. 
 
 All Huda sectors in Gurugram and other cities of the state have large numbers of plots that are either vacant or with minimum construction. The above rule is applicable only to plot holders who have not completed construction. To circumvent it, allottees who wanted to build later would construct a structure over 25% of the approved area, get an OC, and keep paying extension fees.
 
 The lack of clarity in the rules was raised by Huda’s Gurugram administrator in September 2016. In his letter to the head office, he had sought clarity on whether OC could be issued to a plot owner who has sanctioned drawing for 25% of the permissible area, and had built just that, or to someone who had sanctioned drawing for full permissible covered area, but had constructed over only 25% of it?
 
 The official has also sought clarity on whether part-OC could be issued in above mentioned cases, and, if yes, would it be valid forever or for just six months? Following this, the matter was placed on agenda in a meeting of top Huda official held on January 10, 2017.
 
 “It has now been decided that OC may be issued to allottees of residential plots upon completion of construction over 50% of the permissible ground coverage,” said Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav. It will be applicable to all plot-holder with 0-25% of construction. An allottee can get OC by meeting the above mentioned criteria.
 
 In old cases, where allottees of residential plots have taken only provisional OCs, they can take OC within two years of date of issue of the revised policy (January 18, 2017), after fulfilling the condition of construction of minimum 50% of permissible ground coverage. In such cases, no extension fee will be charged till two years from date of issue of new policy.
 
 But allottees who failed to comply with the new policy, would have to pay extension fee. Though, there would be no provision for resumption of plots. “Allottees of residential plots who have taken only provisional OC and failed to fully complete construction by specified date, would be liable to pay extension fee,” said the new policy. 
 
