ATTARI: A young  ,   (31), who had married an   after their love blossomed on  , was repatriated to his country on Wednesday. His wife Sofia and two-year-old son Ariz could not accompany him in the absence of visas to travel to his homeland. 

 A resident of Okhri in Hyderabad district in Sindh province, Akbar was among the 39 Pakistani nationals, including 18 fishermen, who were repatriated by India via Attari border.
 
 Akbar, a masters in economics, said he got in touch with Sofia of Dewas in Madhya Pradesh through the social networking site in 2011. The two got married in 2013. Akbar’s visa got expired and he was put behind bars for over 18 months before being deported to his country.
 
 Before deportation, Akbar (31) told TOI that he wanted to take his wife and son along with him but they were not given visas to travel to Pakistan. Disappointed, yet confident, Akbar said the day was not far when the family would reunite. “But how, I don’t know for now,” he said.
 
 The Pak national said that he was sentenced to one-year imprisonment in August 2015 for overstaying in India. He further stated that despite being released in 2016, he was made to stay in a detention centre for about seven months for want of travel documents. “This was really cruel. I don’t understand why I was made to stay in the detention centre,” he added.
 
 Another Pakistan national Ramzan claimed that he became a victim of his own innocence and honesty. He said that, “I had gone to Dhaka, Bangladesh, on PIA’s flight to meet one of my relatives and from there we came to Ajmer to pay obeisance at Dargah Sharif. Our legal documents got stolen and when I went to police to lodge a complaint, I was arrested and imprisoned for five years.” He admitted that though he was wrong in travelling in India without documents, still he should have been deported on humanitarian grounds.
 
 A young fisherman, Sikandar, was also among the Pakistani nationals deported. “Scores of fishermen are arrested every year for no fault of theirs. Both governments should have framed some policy to release them there and then instead of sending them to jails,” he suggested.
 
 
