NEW DELHI: Hours after he joined work as Delhi Development Authority’s new director of public relations,   was repatriated to his parent department,  . Was it because he has limited use of his lower limbs due to polio? Bhati thinks so and will charge the agency with discrimination, though   officials deny his   had anything to do with the rescinding of the appointment. 

 Bhati was appointed to the post in November last year, but when he reported for duty on January 10, he was told that he was not fit for the job because it involved “extensive outdoor duties”. “It is humiliating. Within hours of meeting the DDA vice-chairman, I was told to go back to my parent department,” said Bhati. Though he walks with the help of crutches, he also drives his own car. 
 
 Elaborating on the two jobs, Bhati said, “In   too, I have to be out for field visits because it has 40-45 sub-stations. The nature of the job is the same.” He has been working as the public relations officer at Delhi Transco Limited for 16 years, and says he has never faced discrimination of this sort. 
 
 Bhati’s relieving letter issued by DDA on January 11 and addressed to Delhi Transco’s general manager (HR) stated: “It is to inform you that the post of Director (PR) in DDA, by nature, involves field works, in which the officer may have to be present at various sites of DDA — like demolition sites, DDA parks, DDA sports complexes, bio-diversity parks, etc. This involves extensive outdoor duties including physical work/movement of the officer in various situations.”
 
 The original list of qualifications for the job did not bar disabled people from applying, Bhati pointed out. When contacted, a senior DDA official argued, “He was not relieved from the post because of his disability. The advertisement was issued a year ago and the qualifications required change with time. Moreover, Bhati never interviewed for the post. He didn’t join DDA because we didn’t initiate the paperwork.”
 
 But Bhati insisted that DDA gave him an appointment letter in November last year, and said, “DDA officials have been calling me for the past two months to check about my joining date.” Since DDA officials couldn’t explain why his appointment wasn’t cancelled if the qualification criteria had changed, Bhati has decided to approach the Chief Commissioner for Persons with Disabilities and charge DDA with discrimination. 
 
 With Parliament having recently amended the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act to cover a wider range of physical limitations and provide the affected people with equal opportunities, this incident, Bhati asserted, was a step backward. “The government is encouraging people with disabilities, but government offices continue with their narrow view,” fumed Bhati.
 
 
