Aurangabad: A team of ten to twelve women posing as doctors was caught at Masnatpur in Chikhalthan area on Monday while administering suspicious multi-vitamin drops and tablets to some persons.

 The women wore white aprons and were attracting elderly women saying that they were offering medicines on behalf of the municipal body and charging a fee of Rs 50 from each patient for the medicines.
 
 Some local residents grew suspicious of the activities and called on MIDC Chikhalthana corporator Raju Shinde to check about the health camp. 
 
 When municipal authorities and policemen reached the spot, they realised that the entire arrangement was illegal. Eight women were detained while some managed to flee. 
 
 Jayashree Kulkarni, medical health officer in the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), confirmed that the group of women had organised a camp in Chikhalthana area wherein they were administering suspicious tablets and liquid to patients falling in the age group of between 10 and 80 years. 
 
 “We visited the spot and found that the camp was organised without the permission of the municipal body. Apart from this, the medicines being used did not look genuine and the women were not medical practitioners. They were not only conducting medical check-up, but also offering tablets and oral drops, which is not allowed,” she said. 
 
 Before they reached the spot, the team had administered vitamin drops and tablets to about 50-60 patients. The civic team was relieved that none of the patient had complained of any side effects of the medicines. 
 
 Kulkarni said the organisers were attracting the residents by telling them that the event was held by the civic body in association with a charitable trust. But the municipal authorities have doubts over the authenticity of the trust and the matter is being investigated. “A register recovered from the spot revealed that the team had organised similar camps in many other places in the nearby villages,” she said. 
 
 The municipal authorities were in the process of filing a complaint against the team with the police till late in the evening. 
 
 They had seized medicines from the spot and the bottles and tablet packets did not mandatory information written on them. 
 
 Kulkarni told TOI that they had sent samples of the seized medicines to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the report is awaited. 
 
 
