Surat: Diamantaires in the world’s largest diamond cutting and polishing centre in Surat are all set to trade their precious diamonds in a diamond exchange for the first time in the world. 

 The mock tests for diamond delivery process being conducted by Indian Commodity Exchange Limited (ICEX) have been running successfully since February 27, with an objective to provide insight to traders and manufacturers on the processes of the Exchange Developed Electronic Debit Credit Module (EDCM) for diamond deposit, grading, sealing, storing and effective delivery. 
 
 “We are launching diamond contracts starting April. Polished diamonds will be traded for the first time in the world in a commodity exchange and Surat will be the delivery centre,” ICEX managing director Sanjit Prasad said. 
 
 After the Government of India notified diamonds as a commodity for trading, Securities and Exchange Board of India gave ICEX permission to launch diamond contracts. The ICEX team has been organizing mock tests for diamond deliveries and trading in the diamond industry to educate traders, merchants and general public about the benefits of diamond contracts. 
 
 ICEX will be initially launching three contracts for the stones sized 30 cent, 50 cents and 1 carat. It has also tied up with International Institute of Diamond Grading and Research (IIDGR), a 100 per cent subsidiary of global major De Beers based in Surat, for grading and packing of the diamonds.
 
 Industry experts believe that the future trading will establish diamonds as a commodity, for the first time in the world. This will help the industry to tide over pricing issues of diamonds and allow diamantaires and general investors to earn profits. 
 
 “An average of 2,000 people are participating in each of the mock tests being conducted by ICEX at Surat’s diamond market. Big manufacturers are keen to learn how things will be working once the diamond futures are launched in April. We will be holding a seminar on futures trading in diamonds on March 4 in Surat where diamond and jewellery industry stakeholders will get a deep insight into diamond futures,” ICEX’s Ravi Bhattar said. 
 
 Sources said ICEX will be signing a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with South Gujarat Share Brokers’ Association (SGSBA) for setting up a futures market for trading. 
 
 
