BHOPAL: With Pakistan steeling its resolve to hang alleged Indian spy  , more stories are tumbling out of how Pakistani spies are being treated humanely — even in prison.

 In fact, the Madhya Pradesh jail department had recommended waiver of punishment of a Pakistani national much before his three-year jail term was over, but it was turned down on legal and technical grounds. Sources in the prisons department say the Pakistani inmates have never complained of ill-treatment behind bars.
 
 On Monday, TOI had reported how Bhopal Police has been sheltering and feeding Pakistani spy Sajeed Muneer who has nowhere to go after being released from jail. 
 
 The two Pakistanis in Madhya Pradesh jails are Imran Warsi Qureshi of Karachi’s   area, who is in   since 2008, and Abbas Ali, a resident of Raheem Yaar Khan in Pakistan’s Punjab, who is lodged in Gwalior jail since 2006. Qureshi was handed a 10-year jail term for spying for Pakistan.
 
 Qureshi was convicted on April 8, 2013, but under Indian law, time spent in jail as undertrial is deducted from the prison term and he is due for release in exactly a year. He had rented a house in Mangalwara area of Bhopal and was passing on secret military information through Internet and other means to Pakistan when he was arrested in January 2008. 
 
 Abbas Ali is serving out a 14-year jail term under various sections of IPC and passports Act. He was convicted on May 28, 2008. “While Qureshi will be completing his sentence next year, Abbas still has some time left. Both of them live as normal prisoners without any discrimination,” said a senior jail department official. 
 
 “In fact, in September last year, Abbas Ali’s name was on a list of prisoners whose sentences were to waived because of good conduct. He was about to be released in three months when the decision was retracted and his name was dropped from the list. But both of them receive all the facilities and rights that any other inmate is entitled to according to the jail manual,” the official added. 
 
 Bhopal Police has been taking care of convicted Pakistani spy Sajeed Muneer for almost a year after his release from jail. Pakistan did not respond to extradition requests by the Indian government. By default, he became Bhopal Police’s responsibility and the district special branch (DSB) has been taking care of him for 10 months now. He is kept at a place near Koh-e-Fiza police station and DSB pays for his food and other necessities, say officers.
 
 GFX
 
 Foreigners in MP jails: 25
 
 Foreigners in Bhopal Jail: 11
 
 Bangladeshis: 8
 
 Pakistani*: 1
 
 * A second Pakistani is in Gwalior jail
 
 Nigerian: 1
 
