Dilip Pal -the idol-maker for the   -has his hands full this year. For the past three months, he has not only been making the customary family idol but also a set for the Indian Cultural Society (ICS), based in Cambridge, the UK. “It will be ready in another three-four days and packed in another couple of days. Then we'll be ready to say bon voyage to our pratima,“ Dilip told us with a smile. Once shipped, the society will be celebrating Puja with a new set of idols after eight years.The society has been planning to replace the idols for a couple of years. “But for a small group like ours, it's not easy to shell out a large sum of money at one go.Finally, we managed to collect the funds this year, and are getting the pratima from one of the finest idol makers in the city ,“ said a member of the society , Dr Pallab Rudra, who's currently in Kolkata and will be visiting the Rajbari on Monday to have a look at the idols. “We had a budget of £2,000 for the idols. But that can go up if there's any fluctuation in the value of GBP ,“ he said, adding that the idols would cost them around `1 lakh and another lakh has to be spent on packaging and transportation.

 
 
 The society's chairman, Nandan Sengupta, told us from Cambridge that he had witnessed the grand Puja at the   for years before moving to the UK and had always wanted a touch of that tradi tion to be a part of their Puja. “Earlier, Nalin Chandra Pal used to make the idol for the family , and since his demise, his son, Dilip, has taken over the responsibility. Since we were looking to change our set of idols, we chose him to make them, as we wanted a traditional touch to our Puja,“ he said, adding that he had visited Kolkata recently to close the deal with Dilip.
 
 Tirthankar Krishna Deb, an eighthgeneration member of the Shobhabazar royal family who's also part of its Puja organising committee, told us that Sengupta has been close to the family for quite a while. “Ever since he left the country , he wanted to take the flavour of our tradition to the UK.He's finally succeeded,“ he added.
 
 
 According to Dr Rudra, even choosing Dilip wasn't easy for them despite umpteen number of recommendations from various quarters. “When you're in Kolkata, you don't really care about who's making the idols for your parar Puja. But abroad, we are fussy about the name and fame of the sculptor. So even deciding on Dilip required several rounds of discussions,“ he said.
 
 
 
 All said and done, we asked Sengupta how they managed to reuse the same set of idols for so many years. He told us that the idols are often made of sholapith or fibre so that they can be reused for years to avoid transportation costs and excise nitty-gritty . “In London, the Puja organisers usually opt for storage lockers on rent. In Cambridge, however, after dismantling the idols, we keep it in a society member's house, as unlike London, our houses are a bit more spacious,“ he said.
 As for what they plan to do with the old set of idols once the new set arrives, Sengupta told us that there are around seven museums under   . “We're planning to hand over the idols to one of these museums to be put up as a community cultural heritage exhibit.Discussions are on regarding that and so far, the response has been positive. Nothing has been finalised yet,“ he said.
 
 
