AHMEDABAD:  , responsible for enforcing the  , are often found on the wrong side of it. On Wednesday morning, head constable Ramesh Kharadi of Shaherkotda police station, allegedly ramming his   into a   near the Meldi Mata temple in Behrampura while drunk. 

 The victim, Manu Vaghela, was rushed to VS Hospital with a fractured hand. Police sources said they have lodged a complaint against the head constable and have arrested him.
 
 According to complaint lodged by Vaghela, when he was passing near Meldi Mata temple early on Monday morning, Vaghela at full speed, rammed his car into him. “The collusion was such that Vaghela was flung about six feet into the air. According to the complaint, the cop fled the scene but was identified from the registration number of the car,” said a police source.
 
 The investigating officer, N K Dabhi, said they have booked Kharadi for consuming liquor and have sent his blood sample for verification. “We have charged him with section 185 of the Prohibition Act at present, but whether the charge sticks will depend on the blood report,” added Dabhi.
 
 Kharadi, in his statement to police, said that he was not drunk but had been on night duty and could not control his vehicle.
 
 “He said he was in hurry to reach home as his wife is ill. The head constable added that he suffers from bouts of giddiness and is being treated for the condition,” said PSI Dabhi
 
 The number of incidents involving cops creating a ruckus while inebriated are on the rise. About four such incidents have been reported in three months.
 
 In March 2017, an assistant sub-inspector was thrashed in public by a woman in Khokhra, after he allegedly misbehaved with her while drunk. A constable with Ramol police station was booked for extorting money while inebriated condition and a constable from Bopal police station was found booked for drunkenness.
 
 Senior police official said the trend is worrying. “We have instructed police inspectors on night duty to specially conduct drives to find if police personnel are breaking the law themselves,” added a senior police official.
 
