After almost a year-long delay,   are finally all set to ferry passengers in Noida. Last week, the   commissioner   issued a circular directing the State Transport Authority (STA) to issue permit to operators interested in running bike taxis in cities across the state. With the STA giving clearance for running bike taxis in the Ghaziabad region (which includes Noida, Ghaziabad, Hapur, and Bulandshahr), Noida is set to be the first city to have bike taxis in the state since it already has operators queuing up for permit.

 Rajesh Singh, assistant regional transport officer (Noida), says, “The transport officials were formulating guidelines for the fare, requirements and permits for the drivers, as well as safety issues.” Now that the guidelines have been finalized, the department is giving permits to operators across the state and the first proposal being considered is from a Delhi-based operator who wants to run a fleet of 100 bike taxis in Noida. 
 
 Sources from within the transport office say that bike taxis could be zipping around the city by the end of January. There are three other operators from Noida who have sent their proposals to the transport department, each with a proposed fleet of over 50 bikes.
 
 The guidelines laid down include the mandatory use of crash helmets for pillion riders. “People usually flout road safety rules in UP, so we want the bike taxis to strictly adhere to this guideline. Wearing helmet will be mandatory for the driver and pillion rider. If either of them is caught without a helmet, the operator’s permit will be cancelled,” the transport commissioner told us. Other requirements include a first-aid box in the bike, a red-blue colour scheme, the word bike taxi to be written prominently on the front and back of the bike, and a complaint book with the driver.
 
 The concept of bike taxis is not new to NCR. A private company had proposed running bike taxis from select Metro stations in July 2015. However, the proposal was rejected back then. In December 2015, Gurgaon became the first city in NCR to launch bike taxis. Currently, there are five bike-taxi services running in Gurgaon, including one that caters exclusively to women. Two operators started test runs of bike taxis in Noida last February, but were stopped by the RTO since they did not have permit.
 
 
