A team of students from   has developed an   to  ,   and memory of the  . The electronic device called QBCD that resembles a cube aims to identify children with such problems at an initial stage and makes learning interactive and pleasurable for them.

 The core team comprises Dhanunjaya S, Varun Tandon, Arun Singhal, Shubham Garg and Aryan Adya from the Manipal Institute of Technology.
 
 Co-Founder Aryan said: “QBCD has six screens on all six surfaces. It has inbuilt voice assistant and sensors which force the child to use it on a flat surface only. There are six options on six different screens, and the child has to pick the cube and flip it in such a way that correct screen rests on top. “QBCD has such sensors which make it compulsory for the child to use it on a flat surface unlike tablets, which thus prevents posture and spinal problems in children. The progress of the child can be monitored as it can wirelessly transmit the progress to the synced PC of the teacher or the parents.”
 
 He claimed that QBCD helps children develop a pincer grip, which is not possible with present-day devices such as tablets.
 
 Over one million children suffer from learning disorders such as dyslexia/dyspraxia. It has been scientifically proven that drastic improvement is possible in dyslexic children if their motor-skills and hand-eye coordination are improved.
 The team was honoured during the Founders Day celebration held at Manipal University on Sunday. The product has won several prizes including third prize in Provenance’ 16, Manipal University Business plan Competition, first prize in Innovation Challenge 2016. They won a seed money of Rs 10,000 as Innovation Centre Project 2016 and third prize in Bizzinga, TAPMI’s Business plan competition 2016. They won the second prize at IE E&C Winter project exhibition 2017 and IEEE Paper presentation. “There are certain limitations as a student project especially between the prototype and the final product. We are hence looking for support from electronics based companies. We have a team of 4-5 developers and they are developing modules based on CBSE and ICSE syllabus from nursery to class one and two. New activities can be downloaded from the website which will be launched soon. The cube comes with pre-loaded activities and hence it will be a one-time investment for parents,” said Aryan.
 You Might Also Like
 
