NEW DELHI:   chief executive officer Amitabh Kant on Wednesday said government entities should exit from the operation and maintenance of infrastructure projects. They should even look at handing over jails, schools and colleges to the private sector. 

 Speaking at the PPP Summit organised by industry body FICCI, Kant said, “The government has done a lot of big projects but it is not good at operation and maintenance. Therefore, the government must start the process of reverse BOT (build, operate and transfer), must sell out projects and let the private sector handle it.”
 
 Kant said national highways and dedicated freight corridors should be the first one to take up this challenge. He said even the freight corridors being built should be given to private players to operate.
 
  bathrooms at airports which are under AAI, he said, “We must bring in the private sector. That is, the fastest way to bring in private sector and bring private sector money back in infrastructure. These projects are fully de-risked.”
 
 Kant said the country needs to move into new areas of PPP. There is no need for jails, schools, and colleges to be run in government sector, he added. “At least experience of many countries like Canada and Australia shows that private sector is capable of doing very good work in creation of quality infrastructure over a long period of time in social sector,” he added.
 
 The NITI Aayog CEO also blamed the private sector for the current crisis in PPP investment saying that there are several projects where private player went for aggressive bidding without doing the due diligence. Later they exited from project finding them financially unviable. “Private sector has performed very badly. Private sector in India is most irrational, insensitive I have seen,” he said.
 
 Highways minister  , who also spoke at the event, said the   (NHAI) will soon float bids for monetising a bunch of completed highway project. These stretches will be auctioned for 20-30 years and the private player will be responsible for their operation and maintenance over and above paying premium to the highways authority.
 
