PUNE: Baner and Balewadi residents joined in large numbers to experience another pleasant Sunday morning. The Happy Streets event near   turned it into a hub of fun-filled activities for the young and old alike.

 People grooved on various dance numbers and styles especially the fitness-oriented FitNo-D. The unique concept was organized by Avik Bhattacharyya, founder of Center Stage, along with his partner Pratima Thorat. Besides this, there were Zumba, hip-hop, Bollywood, jazz and more arranged by Dancing Curve.
 
 “I think kids enjoy this event the most,” said Shreyas Das of Kharadi. He is the co-founder of a startup called Mumma’s Box which provides tiffin boxes for kids.
 
 The Live Stage saw a huge crowd and a message about voting was given at the event. The highlights, however, were the games of Marbles, Gilli Danda and Pitthoo/Lagori organized by  . “Today’s kids haven’t played the games their parents enjoyed the most in their childhood. We wanted both generations to relish in these activities and so they have,” said Yogeshwar Kasture from Rutweej Life Skills.
 
 Olympian Manoj Pingale imparted some professional wisdom about the boxing gear and the sport itself. “Boxing is considered a risky game by many. But we want to create awareness about how safe and regulated the game is,” said Pingale.
 
 Djembe drum sessions by Taal Inc exposed the participants to the ancient art of drumming.
 
 Capoeira Brasil joined the event to introduce Brazilian martial art forms while Dhruv Defence Motivation Centre gave people a chance to unleash the archer in them.
 
 Sheela Kochhar, a member of Baner-Balewadi Residents Association expressed her love for Happy Streets stating how it helped her to de-stress and also had a suggestion for the next event. “The crowd will only grow till next Sunday and I think we need to extend the space allotted. Covering the entire road for the next Happy Streets is suitable for all,” said Kochhar.
 
 Plant lovers rejoiced the Selfie Pot brought by Plantina.“This is a self-watering gardening pot. One has to water it once every 10 days,” said Ashish Sapkal, a sales executive of the company.
 
 While the people of Baner and Balewadi seemed to have embraced Happy Streets with an open heart, the only stall that did not see much of a participation was the old-toy donation box. “It is sad that so many people come here with kids but nobody thought of getting old toys that can be donated to underprivileged kids. All my children have grown up and we don’t have any toys left in the house, but I hope the ones who do, come up in great numbers to donate old toys for a cause in the next two Happy Streets events,” said Ravi Kulkarni, a senior citizen.
 
 Happy Streets is organized by The Times of India and Maharashtra Times in conjunction with Pune Police, Pune Traffic Police and  . The event powered by Vilas Javdekar Developers is aimed at popularizing the concept of vehicle-free roads for fun and engaging in community activities.
 
