NEW DELHI: In a stinging blow to the Mamata Banerjee government, the   upheld the Calcutta high court’s decision to order a preliminary enquiry by the CBI into the   allegedly showing Trinamool Congress members accepting bribes.

 The Bengal government had termed the sting operation to be a handiwork of BJP to destabilise the ruling party, which has opposed the Centre on many fronts.
 
 A bench of Chief Justice J S Khehar and Justices D Y Chandrachud and Sanjay Kishan Kaul dismissed the Bengal government’s appeal against the HC verdict after extracting an unconditional apology for casting aspersions on the HC judges for handing over the probe to the CBI.
 
 Before dismissing Bengal’s appeal, the SC heard arguments for one and a half hours on two petitions filed by TMC members Saugata Roy and Suvendu Adhikary.
 
 The arguments put forth by senior advocates Kapil Sibal and A M Singhvi reflected the Banerjee government’s deep distrust of the CBI under the control of the BJP-led government at the Centre. TMC and Bengal had assembled a big legal team, with senior advocate Kalyan Banerjee, Sidharth Luthra and Rana Mukherjee assisting Sibal and Singhvi. But they failed to get any relief.
 
 Kalyan Banerjee’s gloomy facial expressions reflected the writing on the wall as proceedings neared conclusion.
 
 Sibal said, “Don’t throw us to the lion by entrusting the probe to the CBI, which is under the control of the central government. We are ready for a probe by an SC-monitored special investigation team. A   into the sting operation which was carried out in 2014 only to surface during assembly elections of 2016 will seriously disbalance the federal structure.”
 
 But the bench said, “What we hear today seems to be an expression of your experience in (previous) government. We can allay your fears (of vindictiveness by CBI) by asking the HC to monitor the CBI probe. We read between the lines and appreciate what you (Sibal) are saying. But CBI still is a specialised agency. It is our premier agency. It will be demeaning to say there will be no CBI probe. What is ordered is only a preliminary enquiry. If and when PE is completed and it is felt necessary to register an FIR, there is enough remedy available to the accused to challenge it.”
 
 Singhvi said the HC had erred in directing preliminary probe by the CBI as the apex court had time and again clarified that state police should have the first right to investigate a case and only in rarest of rare case should the investigation be handed over to the federal agency.
 
 The bench said, “This is indisputably a rarest of rare case as it allegedly involves important political personalities. Sting operations are a tough job. Just imagine what the person has to undergo.” It reminded the West Bengal government and the petitioners -- Roy and Adhikary -- that state police had done nothing since the   became public.
 
 Appearing for the original petitioner before the HC, senior advocates Harish Salve and Bhaskar Bhattacharya told the court that the state advocate general had taken a stand before the HC that the tapes revealed no cognisable offence.
 
 The bench said, “Both judges of the HC felt there is overwhelming material to send the case for CBI probe. The complaint of the journalist and his wife had evoked no response from the state police. If the advocate general representing the state says no congisable offence, will the state police act on the allegations of bribe taking by politicians of the ruling party? So, there is very good reason for entrusting the probe to the CBI.”
 
 However, the court agreed to give consolation relief to Sibal and Singhvi by asking the CBI not to take into account the observations and opinions expressed by the HC in its March 17 order while entrusting the preliminary enquiry to the agency. It also said the HC direction to complete the PE in 72 hours was rather harsh and extended the time to 30 days, thus giving the CBI time till April 16 to complete the preliminary enquiry.
 
