It is rare for a Telugu film to be dubbed into Vietnamese. So the news of SPYder’s Vietnamese release does come as a surprise. But stunt choreographer   (who has acquired the dubbing rights of the film) believes the film’s action episodes will strike a chord with action movie buffs worldwide. “Be it the rollercoaster fight scene, or the episode in which a 30 ft boulder rolls down the hill onto the city people or even the climax sequence (in which   rescues people stuck in a crumbling hospital building); the stunts in the film are on par with Hollywood films. I worked really hard on them and I’m really proud of them. That’s why I’m releasing   in Vietnam,” says the National Award winner.

 
 
 Produced by NV Prasad and   under NVR Cinema LLP, Spyder is running in theatres. Apparently, director   gave Peter a simple brief: Create something that’s not been witnessed on the Indian screen before. The effort that went in to bring those action scenes to life is an achievement in itself, he confesses. “After scouting various locations, we decided to shoot the rollercoaster scene at the longest rollercoaster ride in Vietnam as it has the maximum number of deadly curves. The ‘boulder’ episode was shot in Hyderabad. We erected a mammoth set filled with 2000 people including school children, besides an additional 500 stuntmen and a horde of vehicles. From calculating the velocity of the 30 ft boulder, the impact it would generate after hitting the ground, the weightage of the vehicle needed to stop it etc., everything was planned down to the last detail as one mistake could prove fatal,” says Peter, adding, “The climax scene took 15 days to shoot. Over 90 per cent of the sequence was shot live. Some parts were even shot in real locations for authenticity. We erected a specially designed set, and a lot of special effects needed to be tailored into it as well. The CG (computer graphics) department worked in tandem and even till a couple of days before release, we were ironing out the scenes.”
  
 As Mahesh Babu didn’t use a body double for the film, there was a lot of risk involved. “He felt that the intensity of emotion could be conveyed only if he did the stunts himself. He got badly bruised a lot of times during the shoot, but would turn to me with a grin on his face and say, ‘One more take Master’? We would not have managed to pull it off without his dedication,” says Peter, signing off.
 
