AHMEDABAD: For Riddhi Kotwal, it was perhaps justice delayed, but not denied.   high court has directed the Admission Committee for Professional Medical Education Courses (ACPMEC) to keep a seat vacant for this student from Himmatnagar in homeopathy course this academic year.

 Riddhi will get admission on the basis of her last year’s score in Gujarat Common Entrance Test (GujCET), though all admission in these disciplines are taking place this year strictly on basis of National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET).
 
 Riddhi wanted admission in ayurved or homeopathy courses last year and her name even figured in the merit list. But the nursing college, where she was studying as a stop-gap arrangement, did not issue her a no-objection certificate. This led her to miss the opportunity to pursue the medical courses of her liking last year. She moved the HC last year, but could not secure her admission. She had to knock at the HC doors for justice.
 
 Riddhi’s name came in the merit list of ACPMEC after third reshuffling of seats in December last year. Since she did not get admission in initial stage of admission, she took admission in BSc nursing in Khedbrahma’s  . But when she got a call from ACPMEC to make a choice of homeopathy college, she was required to supply an   from the nursing college. But the nursing college did not issue the NOC, and Riddhi could not secure admission in homeopathy.
 
 She moved the HC immediately in December 2016, but she missed an opportunity due to the delay in proceedings. The HC did grant interim relief to her by ordering ACPMEC to keep a seat vacant for her for the academic year.
 
 When Justice N V Anjaria finally heard her case, Riddhi’s advocate Virat Popat insisted that the student found a place in merit list, but did not get admission without any fault of hers. The HC too criticized the nursing college for its erroneous indolence, and ACPMEC for its approach. The court held that the student’s career must not suffer for others’ fault. The HC ordered the nursing college to hand over original certificates and the NOC to her. It also directed admission committee to keep a seat vacant for   for the current academic year.
 
 The state government has immediately rushed for an appeal against this order. Hearing on the appeal is posted on Wednesday.
 
 
