Should we laugh or cry? That’s the thought that must have gone through the minds of those who heard about the incident on May 20 in Trivandrum when a 23-year-old law student chopped off the genitals of a 54-year-old so-called 'godman' named Swami Ganeshananda, who had been sexually assaulting her for the past eight years. The woman was forced to take the law into her hands after being physically abused by the member of the Panmana Ashram in Kollam since Class XI. Many have lauded the woman calling her “brave” and “bold” for taking the knife to the perpetrator. Even Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan supported her at a public meeting, as he said laughing, “That was brave act, no doubt. Since the strong action has been already taken all we can do now is support her.” While that would be the first reaction many would have, let’s also consider the suffering and trauma the woman had to endure for the past eight years as the result of the sexual assaults. Taking the knife and resorting to violent solution could have been out of helplessness. And should the system be blamed for her action, or inaction during the eight years? Post Soumya and Jisha rape cases, the Kerala has been mockingly called ‘the haven of rapists’ and that too for good reason, as the State has been witnessing more such heinous incidents. With many being forced to commit suicide and few seeking legal help, it’s time the society became more sensitive to such issues and rigid in rules. Yes CM, we are glad that you supported the girl, but we expect the State to take up the issue more seriously. We talk to some Malayalis who assert that it is high time that the State arrives at a permanent solution so that women won’t have to take law into their hands: 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
















 Instead of labelling it as a brave move, I would rather prefer to call it a reflex action that was a result of years of frustration and anger. We can support her considering it as an individual incident. But when a Chief Minister openly supports her reaction by taking it in a lighter vein, he is indirectly unleashing violence across the State. He is also revealing how trivial the matter is for him. What we ideally need is a atmosphere where we can openly talk about the abuses without fear, and handle such things more sensitively. In case of physical abuse, every girl and boy in the State should be aware about where to go and what to do. Let them know that it’s not their mistake and it is not because they are bad but it is the responsibility of the entire society to give them a comfortable space to grow and nurture. 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 


















 According to the survey conducted by Ministry of Women and Child Development, 63% of children in India are sexually abused. UNICEF globally asserts to ‘break the silence’ which should begin from home, from the child. What we need is a strong deterrence factor. We should educate children on what they should do; unfortunately most of the parents in India aren’t aware of it. We ask them to follow four steps. First, make them aware about what is an appropriate and inappropriate touch. And then, empower them to strictly say ‘NO’ to such moves. Thirdly, if at all they cannot defend, we should ask them to at least scream or shout so that it can retract the abuser. And finally, they should address it to their mom or teacher or whomever the child is close to. We should also implement it in our education system as an essential life skill. This has been successfully functioning in other countries as age-appropriate education. This has to be an on-going process and the child would naturally become responsible. We should educate the parents as well. Most importantly, they shouldn’t ever discourage the child saying, ‘ .’ A child will never lie about such things. Parents should support children and tell them it is not their mistake and the family will deal with it. If it is too difficult, they can at least take extra care to prevent the interaction between the child and the abuser. Parents should also know that ignoring a child’s complaint itself is a punishable offence under section 19-21 of the POCSO Act. The empowerment should happen before the abuse. 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
















 It was good that the girl retaliated against her attacker. But we should think about the reasons that made her take this extreme step. The person including her mother, who should have protected her, was loyal to the attacker so the victim must have been helpless. But we should eliminate the situations like this in future. At a time when there is a rise in molestation cases against women, this law student’s step against her assaulter must be a lesson for others. Let them beware. Her action should be appreciated as she had the courage to fight back. In our judiciary, it has become the responsibility of the victim to produce evidence against the attacker to seek further legal assistance. Maybe it’s because of this that she took the extreme measure. 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 
















 I am extremely happy and totally in support of the girl. She has done what I couldn’t. I always wanted to shoot off Govindachami’s genitals and give justice to my daughter. Unfortunately, I am here stuck and tangled in the legal suits. I am glad that at least this girl had the guts to react. Every girl in Kerala should make her a role model so that the rapists and abusers would think twice before making a move. I hope the CM and team will not sit idle. They should take strict legal action against the ‘godman’ and let the world know, women deserve respect and freedom and are not just machines to satisfy them. 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 














 This is a case of self-defence and not violence. But I saw many comments on social media that such perverts should be castrated. My fear is that everyone will say that this is a good measure and can be carried out in future. Every woman will not have that presence of mind like the girl. It should not convey that all women can take knife against their attackers. This incident should result in having proper law enforcement system that will ensure complete justice for the victim. These attacks against women will not stop until the government takes strict action against such morons and there is a change in patriarchal mindset of the society. 