BENGALURU: With India emerging as one of the fastest growing markets for Tourism Australia, the Karnataka government has urged the Australian government to commence direct flight services from Bengaluru to different destinations in the Land Down Under. 

 A formal request to this effect was made by the state's information technology and tourism minister Priyank Kharge during his meeting with Sean Kelly, Australian Consul General for  , two days ago in Bengaluru. At present , those travelling from Bengaluru to Melbourne or Sydney have to take connecting flights with transfer points being Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Bangkok, Hong Kong and Colombo.
 
 "The air passenger traffic between Bengaluru and the Australian cities of Sydney and Melbourne is quite significant. We have made the request to boost tourism for mutual benefits and cross-border promotions," Kharge said.
 
 The move comes in the backdrop of findings by OAG (an air travel intelligence company) on the top three unserved air routes from Bengaluru. John F Kennedy International Airport in New York (USA) topped the list, followed by Sydney and Melbourne. "It's not just software professionals from Bengaluru, we have students, inves tors and vacation-goers flying from Bengaluru to Sydney and Melbourne. The Australian authorities have said that the highest bookings from South India to Australia is from Bengaluru," Kharge said. 
 
 The state government feels the timing is appropriate to commence direct flight services. "Australia is aggressively marketing its tourist destinations to woo tourists from India. Bengaluru is home for young and aspiration class that wants to travel and explore the world. Moreover, direct flights will also come as a shot in the arm for the state in wooing investors from Australia," Kharge added. 
 
 According to the  , a record 1.5 lakh visitor visas were granted to Indians during 2015-16. The Australian Tourism department has come up with special campaigns to woo tourists from India. 
 
 
