NAGPUR:   has made big gains in local body elections held in   between November 2016 and February 2017 as chief minister Devendra Fadnavis campaigned extensively in the region. It had a weak base in local bodies and this is the first time that it has emerged number one outfit in the region.

 BJP seemed to have become complacent after winning 44 out of 62 seats in the 2014 assembly elections. It suffered major jolts in local body elections in July and November 2015 performing very poorly. 
 
 Fadnavis campaigned extensively in the next round held in 2016 and 2017 and it fetched handsome results. Nevertheless, the scenario in the region is quite mixed. BJP’s performance as compared to 2014 assembly elections is down in some districts.
 
 The situation of Nagpur district is quite puzzling. Five out of six MLAs in rural parts of the district are from BJP. Congress won from Saoner because the BJP candidate had been disqualified before contesting. 
 
 However, in the municipal council elections held in November 2015, BJP lost all three. In November 2016, it improved its performance winning five out of nine councils. Interestingly, Congress lost two out of three municipal council elections in Saoner MLA Sunil Kedar’s constituency. Nagpur zilla parishad is presently ruled by BJP and  , and elections are expected to be announced very soon. 
 
 In Wardha the case is reverse. BJP had won only two out of four assembly seats. However, it won all eight municipal councils and got a majority in zilla parishad. The position of   and Ranjit Kamble has weakened a lot. 
 
 Gadchiroli has turned another BJP bastion. All three MLAs are from BJP. The two municipal councils are held by the party and it has emerged as the largest party in zilla parishad.
 
 In Bhandara all three MLAs belong to BJP but it lost the ZP elections held in July 2015. However, in November 2016, it won three out of four municipal councils. In neighbouring Gondia, BJP runs the ZP in alliance with Congress and rules both municipal councils and won Gondia municipal council giving a jolt to Congress MLA Gopaldas Agrawal. 
 
 In Yavatmal district, BJP’s position has worsened. Even though six out of eight MLAs belong to BJP, it won only two out of seven municipal councils. Sena is the biggest party in ZP. Congress and NCP have bounced back in the district.
 
 In Amravati, only four out of eight MLAs are from BJP. It rules seven out of eleven municipal councils but Congress has retained power in ZP. The municipal corporation was however, bagged by BJP comfortably.
 
 
