MUMBAI: Early identification of   (CWDs) below five years of age, sensitizing teachers and students to avoid cases of bullying in schools, developing disabled-friendly infrastructure and preventing their expulsion from schools are some of the recommendations made by experts during a recent   held at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences ( ).

 The consultation was jointly organized by the Centre for Disability Studies and Action (TISS), Maharashtra State Commission for Protection of Child Rights and UNICEF, Maharashtra.
 
 The recommendations are to be presented to the state government by the child rights commission for inclusion in the Maharashtra Rules (2011) pertaining to the Right to Education (RTE) Act. “The   Act was brought into implementation when the People with   (PwD) Act 1996 was in force. With the new Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, passed, the provisions in the RTE Act for CWDs should also be reconsidered,” said an expert who was at the meeting. The latest central act includes 21 types of disabilities.
 
 The importance of early identification and intervention at pre-primary level was stressed at the meeting. It is especially essential to identify hidden disabilities such as borderline intelligence, low vision, hearing impairment, learning disabilities. The experts recommended training for people who conduct annual surveys to identify out-of-school children so that they may include CWDs as well.
 
 The consultation pointed to a lack of trained personnel at certification centres. “This is especially in cases of certification of children with multiple disabilities such as deaf-blindness. There is no proper diagnosis mentioned in the certificate, thereby, giving incorrect disability certificate, which affects children getting access to the right and adequate rehabilitation. Therefore, co-ordination between schools and health centres is essential,” it was suggested.
 
 The experts recommended individualized education programmes, having resource teachers with more clarity on their role, and awareness campaigns on special education as a career option to make it lucrative for good students, thereby enhancing the quality of resource teachers. 
 
 There is a need to create awareness among counsellors, teachers and parents about inclusive education to prevent expulsion of CWDs over academic performance, it was suggested. providing books in optional subjects that students choose, efficient disbursal of reimbursements to schools for giving facilities to CWDs, documenting good practices in inclusive education, publicizing role of child rights’ commission for grievance redressal, and allocating 1% of the budget for services for CWDs were some other recommendations. 
 
 
