It wasn't just celebrated personages from   who made it to the prestigious list of Padma winners for the year, but those who work away from the spotlight as well.

 While the list of eight awardees from the state includes singer  , originally from Kerala, the poster boy of Indian paralympics Mariyappan Thangavelu, famous spiritual leader Jaggi Vasudev , and the late political commentator-actorwriter Cho Ramaswamy, it also features social worker Nivedita Raghunath Bhide -the didi or big sister of the Vivekananda Kendra, Kanyakumari, and writer-historian-activist the French-born Coimbatoresettled  , who works towards promoting India's heritage.
 
 Physician and microbiologist Dr Suniti Solomon, whose name is synonymous with AIDS research and prevention in India has been awarded the Padma Shri posthumously. Dr Solomon, who had detected the first cases of AIDS in the country , had died at the age of 76 in 2015.
 
 The other posthumous recipient is the journalist, actor and writer Cho Ramaswamy , who died in December 2016 at the of 82. Known for his fearless criticism of political figures in his plays and magazine `Tughlak', he was also the sole   awardee from the state.
 
 While Yesudas has won all three of the Padma awards, Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev was directly given the Padma Vibhushan.The founder of the Isha Foundation felt the honour was a “recognition of the work of all the volunteers of Isha involved in transmitting the science of inner well-being, particularly the Tamil people who have executed large-scale projects in education, health and ecology“.
 
 The oldest among the awardees from the state this year is 93-year-old Padma  , who, according to his fans, students and colleagues, devoted his life to his instrument. Though the honour came at the fag end of his career, Murthy was happy that his contribution to music was recognised. “The word has come late but it is heartening that at least now the government thought of giving him the honour,“ his son T K Jayaram said. From a family of court musicians in Thiruvananthapuram, Murthy performed with legendary Carnatic vocalist M S Subbulakhsmi for 55 years.
 
 Padma Shri recipient Bhide could not be reached, but Raghunathan Nair, secretary, Vivekananda Kendra, Kanyakumari, spoke about the “big sister“ of the association who never stopped working for the cause of women's empowerment and the socially neglected ever since she witnessed a “one-rupee collection“ drive to build the Vivekananda Rock Memorial in Kanyakumari. “She was a child then but it made her realise that just like one rupee can make a big difference, so can a person if he works for a cause,“ says Nair. Teacher, social worker and author, 58-year-old Bhide, now vice-president of the Kendra, joined it in 1977 and dedicated her life to the cause since.
 
 Academic Michel Danino, a specialist in Indian history and science, is a French national who left his country in 1977 and settled here. The 2017 Padma Shri awar dee's theory of “Indigenous Aryans“, which scraps the previously propagated “Aryan Invasion theory“, has been critically acclaimed the world over. The 61-year-old also engaged himself in the preservation of tropical rainforests in the Nilgiris and established the International Forum for India's Heritage in 2001. Since the Padma awards were instituted in 1954, Tamil Nadu has produced 27 Padma Vibhushan, 130 Padma Bhushan and 235 Padma Shri awardees. The most Padma awards have been in art, followed by medicine, literature and education.
 
