Kavundampalayam constituency (Coimbatore district) MLA V C Arukutty was the first legislator to extend support to O Panneerselvam when the latter revolted against party general secretary V K Sasikala in February. Now he has switched over to the Edappadi K Palaniswami faction of the AIADMK. On the sidelines of a function at chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s residence in Salem city on Sunday, at which the MLA formally joined the AIADMK (Amma), Arukutty found time to speak to TOI and explain the reason for his decision.

 TOI: Why did you switch over to EPS faction?
 
 Arukutty: Though I was in the OPS team, EPS has announced many schemes for my constituency without showing any partiality.
 
 Any other reason?
 
 Yes. Actually, I have been sidelined by OPS in the party. I had thanked the chief minister during the assembly session for announcing many schemes for my constituency and also Rs 900 crore worth of projects for Coimbatore. From that moment, OPS started sidelining me. He also did not invite me for two events which were organised by the OPS group in Coimbatore.
 
 Mettur MLA S Semmalai alleged that you might have been threatened by the EPS team citing the accident that killed Kanagaraj, main accused in the Kodanad murder case. Is that true?
 
 No. No one threatened me from the EPS faction. I have not received any such call from the CM
 
 What do you say about Edappadi K Palaniswamy?
 
 Edappadi K Palaniswami is doing a better job than his predecessor O Panneerselvam. No doubt at all. He is continuing Jayalalithaa’s rule in the state.
 
 You were the one who revolted against V K Sasikala when she was elected as the party’s general secretary. After switching to the EPS faction, would you accept her?
 
 I will not comment on this as she is not in the party right now.
 
 But T T V Dhinakaran still says Sasikala is the general secretary of the party and he is the deputy general secretary. How do you say that she is not in the party?
 
 No comment. But both Sasikala and Dhinakaran were not in the party.
 
 Mettur MLA S Semmalai alleged that you might have been given money by the EPS faction to come to their team. Is that true?
 
 Then why did Semmalai go to the Koovathur resort the during floor test? If I started asking questions about Semmalai, there will be a controversy. I will not say anything about anyone.
 
 Initially, you said you had consulted the people of your constituency when you moved over to the OPS faction. What about this time?
 
 This time too, I have consulted my constituency people. They said EPS is providing good governance. They also suggested that I go to the EPS team. I take that seriously and am switching over to the EPS faction.
 
 Do you aspire to become a minister?
 
 I haven’t demanded anything from EPS ‘annan’.
 
 What’s your next plan?
 
 I have decided to work under the leadership of EPS. That’s all. I don’t have any hidden agenda. Thanks.
 
 
