IMPHAL: The morning took a surprising turn for   when BJP national president   appeared at his   residence on Wednesday. 

 "I wasn't expecting anything like it. It was such a big surprise for me that Amit Shah came to my house. No political leader had come to my house before the BJP president. I am thrilled," Sharma said. 
 
 Thousands of saffron party workers and supporters joined Shah as he hit the streets at Chingmeirong Mamang Leikai on a door-to-door campaign for BJP candidate Yumkham Erabot Singh, who is contesting from the Wangkhei assembly constituency. 
 
 Singh is represents Wangkhei - a cosmopolitan constituency of 34,424 voters located in the heart of Imphal city. While Meiteis form the largest community in Wangkhei, the constituency also has a sizeable population of Tangkhul, Kuki, Gorkha, Muslim, Bihari and Bengali residents.
 
 " Yeh nishchit hai ki BJP bahumat ki sarkar Manipur mein banayegi (It's certain that BJP will form the majority government in Manipur)," Shah said. 
 
 Erabot, who was one of the seniormost ministers in Okram Ibobi Singh's cabinet, left Congress last year and joined BJP following differences with the chief minister.
 
 Ibobi's nephew O Henry Singh is contesting on a Congress ticket and Rajkumar Priyobatra Singh is contesting on a   ticket from Wangkhei, which will go to the polls in the first phase on March 4.
 
 "We feel great. We are humbled by Amit Shah's visit," Ch Pritam said after the BJP national president visited his brother K Ithocha's house.
 
 Unlike most of the other houses, Aribam Shyam and Aribam Tomba had an idea about Shah's imminent visit. 
 
 So, they donned white dhotis in the traditional Manipuri style to welcome the BJP national president.
 
 Union HRD minister Prakash Javadekar, who accompanied Shah in the house-to-house campaign, said the BJP national president has visited 10 houses as part of saffron party's mass voter contact programme.
 
 "This is BJP's unique initiative in which our national president is taking part in the mass contact programme. This will go a long way in boosting the morale of our workers in Manipur," Javadekar said. Henceforth, he said, BJP workers will go for mass contact with voters with new vigour.
 
 "We want to show that BJP is different from other parties where there is a gap between their leader and people," Javadekar added.
 
 Erabot's son Rohoso, who is actively involved in his father's campaign, said, "My father joined BJP with people's consent because they are unhappy with Congress rule. The people of Wangkhei are with my father."
 
 Rohoso said people will vote for change this time as the Congress rule is mired in fake encounters and division of people on ethnic lines.
 
 "Congress knows it is losing. That is why the chief minister created seven districts ahead of the election with the sole intention of sticking to power. But people have well realized that creation of districts is Ibobi's political and not an administrative move. This strategy has failed in Assam, and the same will will do the same in Manipur," he added.
 
