PATIALA: A   in Punjab's   town in   not only murdered a trader in the main market in the presence of eyewitnesses on Thursday morning, but also challenged cops to try and nab them.

 After shooting 25-yearold Hardev Singh Happy five times in the head, one of the alleged assailants, Dalwinder Singh alias Babbl Randhawa, posted four videos and a six-page letter on his Facebook account. He is seen listening to a Punjabi song on `Jatt ne fire kar te' and flashing a gun in the video. The letter doesn't refer to the murder but talks about how he loves his parents and that he can die for his friends.
 
 Increasing crime had become an issue in the recently concluded Punjab assembly elections, forcing the state government to establish a special task force (STF) to crack down on organized crime. One of the reasons for setting up the   was also that the gangsters were committing crimes and advertising about their actions on social media without any fear of the law.
 
 Immediately after the murder, shopkeepers of the Longowal market downed shutters to protest against the deteriorating law and order situation in the town. Happy's father Sajjan Singh refused to get an autopsy done until the accused were arrested. Till late evening the family had refused to cremate the body.
 
 The murder took place around 10am when Happy, a financier, was passing through Longowal's main market. The five gangsters -Babbl, Varinder Singh, Aman Singh, Shuraja and Narcy, stopped him and fired five bullets into his head. Happy died on the spot.
 
 The gangsters confirmed that Happy was dead and then challenged the cops to nab them before getting on to their bikes and fleeing from the spot. Police officers said Dalwinder Singh alias Babbl Randhawa is the gang's kingpin and held a grudge against Happy. The two had filed cross-complaints against each other after a fight a few months ago. Interestingly, both sides had reached a compromise last week and decided to withdraw their complaints, but the truce did not last. All five gangsters were carrying guns and two of them fired at Happy.
 
 Sangrur SSP Inderbir Singh said, “Babbl is facing a number of cases and was recently released from jail on bail.We have formed multiple teams to track down the gang.“ The top cop added that they were verifying where Babbl uploaded the videos from and track him down.
 
