Panaji:   was probably the last member of the Indian   team to reach home after a successful – if you excuse the final – campaign at the ICC Women’s World Cup in England.
 
  While most players and support staff were celebrating with their families on Friday after all the adulation and felicitations in Mumbai and Delhi, Tracy was busy doing what she always does: take care of the players. Not all of them, of course, but probably the more important one:  , chiefly responsible for India’s astounding journey to the final in England.
  
  The India allrounder had picked up a shoulder injury during the World Cup in India and needed immediate treatment on her return to India. Tracy, the Goan physiotherapist who is with the Indian team since 2015, was there on hand to ensure that all her players are in safe hands.
  
  “We had to take her to a consultant in Mumbai. Hopefully she will be back to her normal self, soon,” said Tracy as she arrived in Goa on Sunday and was welcomed at the Dabolim international airport by Goa Cricket Association CEO Prashant Kakode and his wife Anita, a former Goa captain and now chairperson of the women’s selection committee.
  
  Tracy has been a physiotherapist with the GCA since 2009.
  
  Tracy’s journey as an influential member of the support staff that made it to the final of the Women’s World Cup remains intriguing, not least because physiotherapy was the last thing on her mind when she was listing her professional choices.
  
  “Right from my school days, I always dreamt of the medical field. I was planning to pursue dentistry or medicine. At the time of admission, I was in two minds, so I had a word with a family friend who spoke about physiotherapy. I found it interesting, did a bit research and was hooked on to this whole concept of rehabilitation and getting a player back on field,” said the Porvorim resident.
  
  Even after choosing to do physiotherapy, sports was never her thing. She was captivated by neuro physiotherapy but once she dealt with a lot of cases and started treating athletes, an incidental journey turned challenging.
  
  Nowhere was this challenge more evident than in England where India fought the odds to make it to the final. India eventually lost an agonising final against England but not before the world, particularly India, took note. Tracy had a big role to play at the World Cup and came in for rich praise from star player Harmanpreet who credited the physio for her swift recovery.
  
  “That was sweet of her,” says Tracy with a laugh, before continuing, “the girls were very tough and resilient. Everyone had this goal that you had to win the World Cup at any cost. Everyone is passionate. This is a clear example of mind over matter as everyone held on to their mental strength throughout the tournament.”
  
  India’s mental strength took them as far as the final. The Cup may have eluded the team but for the country, they are heroes anyway. Tracy included.
  
  ///
