PUNE: Naval cadets training at the   ( ) are getting a taste of life on the high seas. 

 To give its budding officers hands-on training, the NDA has introduced the "Day aboard at sea" programme for final-term cadets. This programme will be conducted on the TS  , NDA's in-house scale model of a warship. This will help cadets understand the various duties carried out by naval officers on a ship.
 
 The training ship is a full-fledged working model with actual equipment from decommissioned ships. This includes a fully-functional bridge, operations room and even a helo deck to provide as authentic a nautical experience as possible to the young cadets. 
 
 A senior NDA officer told TOI: "After deliberating this in detail, we introduced this concept to give the final-term naval cadets an understanding of the on-board duties of a naval officer. This will come handy during the next phase of their training, at the INA," the officer said. 
 
 As a part of the programme, cadets perform various duties of a watch officer on the training ship. 
 
 "The role of the watch officer is very crucial to the functioning of a ship," the officer added. "He is responsible for the safety and smooth navigation of the ship. Under this programme, we make the cadets perform various duties of a watch officer. In real life, the watch officer works in four-hour shifts round the clock, The cadets too perform their duties in a similar fashion. They are accompanied by naval officers to ensure the procedure is followed to the finest detail," he further said.
 
 So far, the academy's   ( ) has imparted the basics of navigation, general seamanship and communication to fifth and sixth term naval cadets.
 
 Welcoming this move, a senior naval officer said, "It is imperative to expose cadets to the crucial roles of a naval officer early on. Giving practical exposure to the cadets is a prudent way to help them understand certain aspects of the training. This step will certainly have a positive impact on them," the officer said.
 
