HYDERABAD: No major beauty or health product is complete without Aloe vera, but climate change and pollution is taking a heavy toll on the wonder herb, robbing of its unique medicinal properties. If your Aloe vera cream or tonic does not give you the desired result, blame it on the level of pollution and the texture of soil from where the herb has been sourced.

 According to researchers, high level of pollution in air and soil has turned Aloe vera herbs grown in Hyderabad least effective among the 12 samples collected from six different agroclimatic zones across India.The Hyderabadi Aloe vera is the least effective in terms of phytochemicals, total phenolic content and antioxidants. The plants sourced from the Himalayan region, where the pollution levels are relatively lower, showed high content of antioxidants and other me dicinal properties.
 
 A team of researchers from the department of genetics, MD University , Rohtak, Haryana, collected about a dozen samples from Jammu, Palampur (HP), Sangrur (Punjab), Rohtak, Jaisalmer, Gandhinagar, Pratapgarh (UP), Bhopal, Kolkata, Kochi, Vasco da Gama and Hyderabad. These areas represent different agro-climatic zones with different levels of pollution and varied impact of climate change. The team, comprising  , Amita Yadav, Manila Yadav and Jaya Parkash Yadav, published their study in the recent issue of the scientific journal, BMC Research Notes.
 
 Stating that Aloe vera can be a potential source of novel natural antioxidant compounds that fight cancers and other diseases, the team pointed out that climate change is “causing noticeable effects on the life cycle, distribution and phytochemical composition... The changing temperatures and wind patterns associated with climate change are affecting precipitation and thereby , plant architecture, flowering, fruiting, phytochemical composition“.
 
 The study gains significance as Aloe vera contains a number of medicinal properties that can effectively deal with health issues ranging from simple inflammation to bacterial and viral infections and boosting immunity to fighting cancers. Of late, Aloe vera is also prescribed for treating diabetes.
 
