BHUBANESWAR: Emerging from the brink of losing the belief that she could run again,   made a comeback in the   with a bang and clinched the gold medal at the 22nd   here on Saturday.

 This was Sudha's first competitive event since she contracted swine flu during the   last year, and could only begin training in January this year.
 
 It has been a trying phase for the 31-year-old. “When I first resumed my training in January, I did not even think that I could run. I used to collapse after a short distance and it began to shake my confidence,” she reminisced. “It was only with the help of my coach, physio and the entire team around me that I began to improve. They motivated me to keep going.”
 
 Sudha now trains in Dharamshala, where she has a steeplechase runner in  . Sudha has a personal best of 9:35.64 seconds but her yellow metal on Saturday came with a timing of 9:59.47. “My target was the gold medal. But the set of competitors here are the second string. Neither did the other countries send their best steeplechasers nor did I have someone like Lalita (Babar) to compete with. One cannot give one's best without the best kind of competitors,” feels Sudha.
 
 She, however, was confident of bettering her mark at the World Championships in London. “In London, I will have to compete with the best in the world. I believe I can better my mark there and create a new national record for India in the event,” she said.
 
 Delving more into the swine flu setback, Sudha said: “When I got the fever, I had no idea it could be anything more than regular fever. We had travelled to Rio, which was hectic. So I just took a Combiflam (paracetamol) and went for my race. But it turned out to be swine flu. It made me unimaginably weak and I had to take a five-month break from athletics.”
 
 But the 2014 Asian Games bronze medalist said she loved the track put in place at Kalinga Stadium. “This is a very fast track and I consider Bhubaneswar lucky for me. I broke the national record for the first time here in 2007,” she said 
 
 
