PUNE: The   of state highways passing through Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad has hit another roadblock with the   government deciding to wait till the detailed Supreme Court judgment okaying the state governments’ move to denotify stretches of highways passing through the city limits was uploaded online.

 Top public works department (PWD) officials of the state claimed that it might become “easier” to take a call on the matter after the judgment was uploaded. The apex court had okayed the denotification of highways in different states on July 11.
 
 “We are still processing the denotification proposals on a case-by-case basis, though we are awaiting the recent SC judgment for more clarity on the issue. Once the SC judgment comes online, we would go through it and only then something concrete could be said about Pune’s   denotification,” the official said.
 
 A source in the liquor industry said the much-awaited SC order was still to come on paper, and it would be available online thereafter. “The SC made the announcement on July 11. Eight days have passed since then and the order has still not been uploaded online. Once the order is uploaded, the state government will take a decision on Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad,” he said.
 
 TOI had earlier reported that the PWD minister had signed on the files of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations proposing to denotify most of the state highways passing through their areas and had sent them to the chief minister for approval. 
 
 Against this backdrop, the defunct liquor stores, restaurants and hotels prohibited from serving alcohol are in doldrums. With the ‘Shravan’ period starting soon, the liquor retailers were heavily depending on the SC judgment.
 
 “With Shravan starting after July 22, sales are expected to dip further, which will add to the accumulating losses of shut liquor outlets. Had the SC order come out, it could have helped us recover some losses,” said a liquor retailer.
 
 “I have tried several times relocating my shop, but things are difficult in rural areas because the gram panchayats, along with women folk, tend to intervene,” he added.
 
