Several professional cyclists and cycling enthusiasts of Noida have come together to form a group called   (NCC), which promotes cycling as a hobby and profession, and conducts rides every week. The group, which comprises more than 2,000 members, has recently started organizing women-specific rides that last for around two-and-a-half hours. The members usually take two preferred routes – one that starts from Mayur Vihar and goes till India Gate, and another which starts from Mahamaya flyover and goes till the Expressway.

 
 
 Alka Choudhary, a software engineer who lives in Sector 41, commutes to her office in Noida Sector 81 by cycle. During weekdays, she rides around 10km daily, and on weekends, she cycles for around 60km. "Women-specific rides not only encourage more cycling enthusiasts, but also help in changing the mindsets of the passersby. I feel more confident riding through Noida’s traffic prone areas now," says Alka.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Charu Sethi, a cyclist and member of NCC and a resident of Sector 76, says, 'Noida mein ride karna itna aasan nahi hai. Ek toh traffic, aur doosra, Noida mein har koi stare karta hai jab ek ladki cycle chalati hai toh. The best part about this group is that we meet at convenient locations and take well-planned routes for our rides. I look forward to the weekend rides.' She adds, 'Earlier, my parents would be concerned about my safety while cycling on NCR roads. But now, I have started sharing the photos of our group rides, which makes them less worried about my safety. Ab darr nahi lagta, mazaa aata hai cycling karne mein.” Cycling enthusiast Deepika Kapoor, a homemaker and resident of sector 39, tells us, “For our rides, we take tracks that have the fewest obstructions for a smooth ride.'
 
  
  Cyclists   and   from the Noida Cycling Club
 
 
 Explaining the idea behind the group, Aman says, "We meet every week and ride through different routes in Noida. To join our group, all you need is a bicycle and passion for riding.” The group, that has organized several women-specific rides so far, generally meets at a pre-decided spot, which is either at Akshardham Temple or GIP mall in Noida. He adds, “We make sure that we take routes that are relatively safer. Also, we don’t want a rider to come once and then never come back because we did too much of a ride for her, so we have reduced the distance and also increased the stoppage points."
 
