HYDERABAD: Banks across the city are in a fix. With little or no cash in their coffers, bankers are worried about an impending crisis once   and pensions of customers start getting credited.
According to highly placed sources, Hyderabad last received a meagre remittance of Rs 400 crore on March 29, against Rs 1,100 crore required to sail through the first week of April. Senior banking officials warn that thin   is the likely to have a grave impact on customers, with money received being diverted towards pensions and salaries.
 
 “We are continuously requesting RBI to increase cash flow. Just before the salary week began, we received about Rs 400 crore, which is less than half of the money needed to meet the current cash demand (including salary). Obviously the crisis will only worsen henceforth,“ said a public sector bank official on condition of anonymity. Turns out, while RBI made 10 remittances every month, prior to demonetisation, it dropped to five in March.
 
 And the magnitude of this problem is evident from the disclosure of a major bank in the city that is believed to be in need of a staggering Rs 140 crore to dispense salaries. Sources said it has been remitted just about Rs 70 crore (approx) by the RBI.
 
 But while Hyderabad received some funds prior the financial year end, the rest of the districts in   did not.They are are expected to get their shares only on reach on Saturday. The requirement, for salaries and pension, is much more in the districts. We really don not know how much each of them will receive,“ said a banker adding how the pace of improvement in the situation will depend on the cash remit ted in the first week of April.
 
 In the interim, customers are bound to face tough times, bankers said. “We may be able to distribute the salaries with great difficulty after RBI makes another remittance, but the cash supply over the counter for business people will be hit to a great extent,“ said another banker. Adding to that will be complete non-availability money in ATMs, at least till April 2.With banks tied up with year end work, the networks will be shut, said some of them.
 
