NOIDA: Nearly 4,500 contractual employees of the   went on an indefinite   from Wednesday. They locked out Noida offices located in sectors 5, 19, 20, 37 and 39 besides gheraoing the chief maintenance engineer’s (CME) office in Sector 5.

 The workers have threatened to intensify their stir if their demands are not met and heard by senior officials of the Authority. They have also said that they will lock out main offices of the Noida   located in Sector 6 on Friday, July 28.
 
 According to the protesters, they have handed over a memorandum of their demands to the Noida chief executive officer (CEO), Amit Mohan Prasad, on July 24. “So far we have not received any response to either our demands or to our strike,” said  , president, Noida Contractual Employees’ Association.
 
 Sharma had said on Tuesday that 15 days ago, a meeting was held with erstwhile deputy CEO Saumya Srivastava, who had promised a coordination committee to address contractual employees’ issues and demands. “But after he was transferred, no Authority official is willing to talk to us,” he said.
 
 “We have not struck work and employees are still working,” said Brijbhan, a member of the Association. “However, from July 28, we will strike work across all departments,” he said.
 
 On being asked about how and whether the strike was affecting citizens’ services in the city, Noida Authority officials played down its impact. “The strike has not affected any services being provided to the citizens,” said Hom Singh Yadav, CME, Noida Authority. “We will soon summon the leaders of the Association to discuss their issues and demands and will soon sort out the matter,” he said.
 
 Yadav denied that nearly 4,500 contractual employees of the Authority were on strike. “It is just about 100-odd disgruntled employees who are staging a protest and we will deal with them,” he told TOI.
 
 The Association’s demands, which according to the employees have been pending for long, include sorting out issues related to their provident fund and making their employment permanent, among other things.
 
 Currently, the Noida Authority employs 1,800 contractual employees in the health department, 1,600 in water and sewer, 315 in electrical and mechanical, 300 in horticulture and 450 in civil divisions. All employees from the departments of health, horticulture, store and purchase, electrical and mechanical, and civil divisions are participating in the protest.
 
 Apart from 4,465 contranctual workers, there are about 1,800 permanent employees and 1,200 ‘job contractual’ employees in the Noida Authority.
 
 
