PUNE: Mistakes of all types in   continue to haunt   in the city. 

 Misspelt names,   and wrong photos on election identity cards are some of the main problems. Despite claims of a ‘clean electoral roll’ after the summary updation in September-October, voters expressed concern over duplicate names, names of people who are no longer staying in city and those who have deceased.
 
 Pallavi Chavan, who had applied for correction, continues to face the same problem of spelling mistakes in her name and wrong address. 
 
 Anannya Pearl, who had submitted form number 6, does not find her name in the list. “I was told that I will get my voter ID card delivered at home. I haven’t received it and my name is not in the list,’’ she said.
 
 Another citizen, Nima Raskar, said in spite of submitting an application, my spelling remains unchanged. “We had filed the necessary forms, but there are no changes in the list,’’ she said. “Why can’t the election commission be more technologically savvy and have a list without such  ?’’she asked.
 
 The State Election Commission had directed all district collectors and divisional commissioners to take an undertaking from electoral registration officials (EROs) of having compiled a clean electoral roll. The EROs are to be held responsible for any mistake in the rolls. Election officials said nearly one lakh forms were submitted during the drive.
 
 However, spelling mistakes is a major issue. “The latest software is able to search a name in a fraction of a second. Why then the exhaustive list is not able to assist voters?’’ asked a political party worker who has been helping citizens in checking their names. 
 
 Pune Municipal Corporation election officer Satish Kulkarni said the rolls were given by officials of the district collectorate following the drive. The draft roll was published on January 5. “We have not made any additions or deletions to the names. We can only tell voters that if a name appears twice, they should inform the election officer in the area so that they can keep a watch on bogus voting,’’said Kulkarni.
 
 Issues have also cropped with voter ID cards showing wrong photos. The lists are as per the Vidhan Sabha and Lok Sabha elections. “There is no systematic effort to upgrade the voters’ list in spite of having an entire year. If it was to be cleaned up, a sincere effort had to be made and the work could have been given to an agency rather than have the same kind of issues again,’’ said D R Rao, a resident of Kondhwa who has been helping citizens in finding their names in the voters’ lists.
 
