NAGPUR: The demand to waive   loans is more of a   gimmick resorted to by every party only when sitting in opposition. “It’s a sentimental issue exploited by politicians and does not benefit farmers in the long run,” All India   Employees   joint secretary Devidas Tuljapurkar said here on Saturday.

 The Mumbai-based union leader does not believe that such waiver is a good idea. “It basically promotes culture of non-payments forcing someone else to pay-up,” he told TOI on the sidelines of bank employees’ series of meetings. 
 
 A similar view expressed recently by   chairperson Arundhati Bhattacharya had drawn derision from Congress-led opposition in Maharashtra legislature who moved a breach of privilege motion against her. 
 
 The waiver demand is being supported by the Congress, NCP as well as the Shiv Sena which is using it as a stick to beat its ruling partner BJP and chief minister Devendra Fadnavis.
 
 Tuljapurkar opined that the government would do well to make top 50 industrial/business loan defaulters to pay up first. “If dues are recovered from them, the banks will be in a position to give farm loans without charging interest (0%),” he explained. “In any case around 30,000 crore of bad loans of industry are waived annually by banks,” he claimed.
 
 Expressing concern over mounting NPAs (non-paying assets) of banks, he said there was fourfold increase since March 2013 taking it up to a whopping Rs6.8 lakh crore. “Time has come to amend IPC to make wilful default a criminal offence. We also need to to fix responsibility. Political leaders who have a major role in it are going scot free,” he added.
 
 Tuljapurkar also favours electoral reforms to include a clause on candidates bank dues and disqualifying of habitual defaulters. He has demanded that names of those who have defaulted on loan of Rs1 crore and above must be published regularly.
 
 Justifying the AIBEA’s opposition to merger of SBI with its associate banks, the union leader said as part of the consolidation SBI would be closing down 30% or over 7,000 overlapping branches after the full merger process. “This goes against the grain of expanding banking network and inclusive growth for which schemes like Jandhan accounts were started,” he pointed out.
 
 Tuljapurkar was also against the provision of signing fresh MoUs by the ten nationalized banks that were getting recapitalization funds from Centre. He was hopeful that the next wage revision of bank employees due in October this year would proceed smoothly and negotiations for it would begin soon.
 
