VADODARA: Violent clashes erupted between groups of Indian and foreign students at   campus in Waghodia late on Sunday night after a petty argument took a serious turn, leaving nine injured.

 As many as 15 students, including 10 foreign students, were arrested on Monday after cross-complaints were lodged by two groups. As soon as the news of heated arguments between an Afghan student and an Indian spread in the hostels, students came out in huge numbers and resorted to stone pelting.Chants of `Bharat Mata Ki Jai' were also heard amid unruly scenes. Around 60 private security guards tried to control the students but the university administration had to call police after the situation worsened. The WiFi network was also switched off to avoid spreading of messages on social networking groups. However, many videos of stone pelting and scuffle were already shared by the students by then.
 
 The Vadodara rural police reached the campus and the situation was brought under control. The police also locked down the entire campus.All injured persons were rushed to Parul Sevashram Hospital and three of them are from  . The police received complaints from both sides on Monday. Mohammed Omid day. Mohammed Omid Abdul Ahaad Sekib, an Afghan student of computer engineering, registered a complaint of rioting against five Indian students identified as Bharat Bhushan, Shubham Borad, Ravi Joshi, Hemang Bhavsar and Hitesh Patel.
 
 On the other hand,  , a native of Navsari and living in the university hostel, wrote to the police to register a complaint of attempt to murder and rioting against Mohammed Omid, Achekzai Nakibullah, Rashid Mohammed Hussain, Hajim Gram, Etaet Khalohom,   Tenue, Samuel Kozorite, Mashiullah Humdum, Wahadat Mohammed and Amir Jamrak.However, the cops registered a case of rioting against them.
 
 Sekib alleged that the Indian students abused them and banged their heads on the benches. Similarly, Gautam also alleged that many foreign students attacked him and his friends. A police official said of the 10 foreign students, five are Afghans and others are from South  , Ukraine and other countries. After the foreign students were arrested, police also informed their respective embassies and High Commissions.
 
 The university has around 450 foreign students. Most of them are from African, South Asian and   countries. A university official said that there are 30 Afghan students doing various courses.
 
