NEW DELHI: A 45-year-old man strangulated his wife and then committed suicide by consuming poison. The incident was reported in outer Delhi’s  , where the couple lived in a rented house and had a heated argument over a petty issue.

 Police said that the matter came to fore on Wednesday evening when the man, identified as Sanjay Sharma, walked up to the   in a semi-conscious state and narrated the entire episode to them. 
 
 Sharma told police that he had an argument with his wife, Babli, when they were having breakfast. The petty argument soon turned serious and Sharma, in a fit of rage, strangulated his wife.
 
 “At first, Sharma couldn’t believe that his wife had died and kept checking whether she was breathing. After spending several hours with her dead body, he consumed poison out of guilt,” said a senior police officer. 
 
 He then walked up to the police station, barely a few meters away from his house, and lay next to a tree until a constable noticed him and asked him to come inside the police station and narrate the entire incident to senior police officers.
 
 Meanwhile, Sharma’s landlord went to their house for some work and noticed that the main door was unlocked. He knocked at the door and rang the bell several times but got no response. He then stepped inside the house only to notice everything in a mess. As he reached the bedroom, he noticed Babli lying on the floor next to her bed and immediately called up Sharma. His number was, however, switched off. 
 
 Panicking at the situation, the landlord left Sharma’s house and informed the police about the incident. 
 
 “A team was rushed to the man’s house, while the other took Sharma to a nearby hospital. Doctors immediately gave him medication, but could not revive him. The woman was taken to the same hospital and was declared brought deal,” said a senior police officer. 
 
 Sharma and Babli’s children live in different cities and are both students. They were informed about the incident, after which they left for Delhi. An autopsy would be conducted on both the bodies after which it will be handed over to family members, said a senior police officer.
 
 
