Lucknow: Was it BJP’s ‘Operation Five’, which though executed with mechanical precision fell just short of the target? Highly placed sources told TOI that the party managers had methodically planned resignations of five MLCs from rival camps — four from SP and one from BSP — but two of them backed out at the last moment. 

 The party requires five vacancies in the Vidhan Parishad to adjust CM Aditya Nath Yogi and four ministers, who are yet become members of either of the houses, without facing Assembly bypolls. For this, Bukkal Nawab, Yashwant Singh, Madhukar Jetely and a woman   from SP and Thakur Jaiveer Singh from BSP were being cultivated for quite some time. 
 
 According to sources,   state vice-president Daya Shanakar Singh, who was orchestrating the entire operation, was in constant touch with these five and their resignation was almost certain till Friday night, when Bukkal Nawab, Yashwant Singh and Jaiveer Singh met top leadership of the ruling party. On Saturday morning, when BJP chief Amit Shah was to land in the city, these five MLCs were supposed to go to the parishad chairman and tender their resignations.
 
 However, when SP leadership, who was unaware till Friday night about their MLCs being approached, suddenly came to know about the ‘coup attempt’ prevailed upon two of them to drop their plan. Sources say that while SP chief Akhilesh Yadav spoke directly to the woman MLC, senior leader Shivpal Yadav, despite having strained ties with the leadership, stopped Jetely.
 
 With its attempt to get five MLAs fizzling out, BJP was even considering to rope in sacked BSP leader Naseemuddin Siddiqui who was willing to quit his seat, but Daya Shankar and his wife, minister Swati Singh, opposed the move as Siddiqui had allegedly used derogatory words against their daughter during a protest last year. They have filed criminal case against Siddiqui and he has been booked under Pocso.
 
 Still short of two vacancies, the BJP leadership is still in touch with one SP MLC while at least three BSP MLAs have approached the ruling party with offers to vacate their seats in favour of CM Yogi.
 
 .
 
 
