MUMBAI: The   on Monday convicted a 43-yearold   for duping two   of Rs26.48 lakh by posing as  , and sentenced him to one year in jail.

 Suresh Yadav, who had served jail sentences several times between 2006 and 2012 for similar crimes, cheated more than half a dozen people in Mumbai. Assistant inspector Ganesh Andhe said the court has sentenced him in two of these cases.
 
 An officer said Yadav, who has good command of English, came to Mumbai in April, 2016 and worked as a watchman at Saki Vihar Complex in Sakinaka. There, he befriended Aarif Khan (45), a businessman and resident of the complex, saying he was an IAS officer of the 2005 batch Bihar cadre who was suspended and forced to leave his hometown for his crackdown against mafia and gangsters there. “Khan believed Yadav. One day , Khan received a call purportedly from the Sakinaka police station saying they wanted to pass a message to one Yadav that the Delhi selection board has revoked his suspension,“ said an investigator.
 
 Later Yadav told Khan that he had given his mobile phone number to the selection board because his number was inactive. “Yadav took money from Khan assuring that he would return it soon.Khan even arranged his flight tickets,“ an investigator said adding that Khan lost Rs17.38 lakh to Yadav.
 
 Later, Yadav duped one Subhedar Yadav and his friend Shailendra Morya of Rs 9 lakh by promising to get the latter's son a clerk job in Nashik collector's office. Yadav has also duped two more people from Borivli and Tarapur before fleeing in May 2016.“He duped four individuals of Rs 30 lakh in a month,“ said Sakinaka police senior inspector Avinash Dharmadhikari.
 
 On reaching Sultanpur in UP, Yadav called the local police station identifying himself an IAS officer and instructed them to send a car to the railway station to pick him, which they did. Yadav had told the investigators he took to crime after watching Amitabh Bachchan starrer Coolie. Yadav said if people can see Bachchan as a coolie, then why he couldn't   an IAS officer and try to get rich.
 
