AURANGABAD: The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited ( ), Aurangabad circle has   of as many as 394 public water supply schemes over   worth around  .

 This includes a total of 89 schemes, in Jalna and Aurangabad districts, whose power supply has been disconnected on a permanent basis. Giving information, Suresh Ganeshkar, MSEDCL chief engineer, said the state power utility was forced to take stringent action as no heed was paid to notices and reminders sent to the concerned local self-governing bodies.
 
 “Different public water supply schemes from Aurangabad circle owe Rs 59.09 crore as dues. The local self-governing bodies concerned failed to clear the dues even after repeated follow-ups and sending umpteen reminders,” he said.
 
 Ganeshkar said stringent recovery drive has become the need of the hour for the MSEDCL to ensure healthy survival. “Money towards actual power consumption has to be recovered at any cost, failing to which financial viability of existence of the state power utility cannot be ensured. We once again appeal for immediate bill payment to avoid any unpleasant and far-reaching action on our part,” he said.
 
 The recovery drive has been also exposing pathetic conditions of several public water schemes with major chunk of them continue to remain defunct.
 
 “The drive has been revealing that considerable numbers of public water schemes are defunct for varied reasons. We have snapped power supply of such schemes and taken out electricity meters. The affected local self-governing bodies will have to apply afresh for power connection now by paying the dues,” MSEDCL higher-ups said.
 
 It should be noted that the MSEDCL in recent past had introduced modified revival plan for defunct power supply schemes, but it did not evoke desired response.
 
 The state water supply department, in April 2015, had also mulled amnesty scheme for defunct public water supply schemes. Maharashtra water supply minister   had said the government was contemplating Rs 500 crore amnesty proposal for revival of public water supply schemes, but things did not progress further.
 
 Authorities said lack of perpetual water source was key reason behind rural water supply schemes becoming defunct.
 
 While the cumulative amount of dues towards non-functional schemes has been mounting, officials said integrating public water supply schemes with water-shed development programme could have some positive effect and revive the water supply mechanism in rural areas.
 
 Meanwhile, the MSEDCL, in its ongoing recovery drive from public water supply schemes, has managed to recover only Rs 7 lakh.
 
