BHOPAL: Blaring of horns, a jam-like situation, drivers screaming out of their windows using choicest of expletives shouting for a clear way and a guard whistling away asking vehicles to move – welcomes one to Raja Bhoj International Airport. The chaos and commotion that resembles a fish market is witnessed at the pick-and-drop lane of the airport every time a flight arrives or departs.

 The commotion chokes the pick-and-drop lane. Say it the apathy of airport staff or nexus of parking lot contractors, no vehicle entering the lane can move out in five minutes, after which parking charges are applicable. 
 
 While the airport has a large and uncluttered parking lot it is rarely used and even private taxis park their vehicles along the pick-and-drop lane. Vehicles want to be as close to the arrival or departure gates.
 
 Frequent flyers said the moment one steps out of the beautiful terminal building and comes across the expletives do they realize they are in Bhopal. “After boarding from Delhi and Mumbai it is a mad house welcome at Bhopal. Shouting and abuses are embarrassing,” city-based businessman   told TOI.
 
 Though vehicles are not allowed to stop in front of exit gate or entry gates of the terminal, it has never been followed. From the parking lot, one should walk down almost 300 to 400 m to reach the terminal through an elevated curve. As the distance is more, people instead of parking the vehicle in the designated parking lot take them to the pick-and- drop lane and adds to chaos.
 
 “There is a lift at the parking lot but no visible signage. Most locals who use the airport regularly are not aware of it, what to say about newcomers to the city. The signage of lift should be clearly visible to all,” said Vikrant Tayade, a private firm employee.
 
 Due to the chaos and parking issue the concept of pick and drop is defeated. “I had to drop my cousin at the airport. After dropping her, I was stuck up in the jam and by the time I reached the boom barrier it was more than five minutes and I had to pay parking fees,” said  , a businessman. 
 
 When contacted, director airport,   admitted there was a problem with the parking lot and parking charges for pick-and-drop vehicles. “We can only request flyers and taxi operators not to park outside the terminal. We have recently contacted the traffic police for assistance. Traffic police have asked us to send the pictures of such violators on WhatsApp and e-chalaans would be raised against them,” said Mathur.
 
 The new integrated terminal building worth Rs 135 crore was inaugurated on in 2011. State government had given 400 acres of land for the construction of ‘international’ terminal. The terminal building is built over an area of 26,936 square metres.
 
 
