NOIDA: Nearly a week after the death of 19-year-old Class XII student   in Greater  , investigation in the case seems to have hit a roadblock as the local police need the viscera report to establish the casue of death. The report is likely to come after two months. 

 On March 24, Manish had left his house in NSG society around 7.30pm. Family members launched a search when Manish did not return till late night and initially they alleged that he was “eaten by five Nigerians” who were staying in the neighbourhood. On Saturday morning, some residents of NSG society in Sector Chi II found him in the bushes near the society in an intoxicated condition.
 
 He was admitted to   in Greater Noida with   but was later referred to Yatharth Hospital in Noida where he died on Saturday evening.
 
 While the family alleged that the boy died after five   students staying in their neighbourhood abducted him and drugged him, Yatharth Hospital in Noida where he breathed his last, has confirmed that the ca-use of death was “unknown poison”.
 
 “When he was admitted to the hospital, he was intoxicated and disoriented. He was vomiting blood and showed symptoms of having consumed some cardio-toxic substance which affected his heart. The identification of the substance will happen after the viscera report comes,” Dr Kapil Tyagi, managing director, Yatharth Hospital, Noida told TOI.
 
 However, according to police, the cause of death could not be ascertained in the post-mortem report. They are waiting for the viscera report from the Forensic Science Laboratory, Agra. While usually the viscera report takes four months to come, the police said they would ask the forensic laboratory concerned to expedite the same.
 
 Meanwhile, Manish’s family members, who had left the society and are currently staying in their village in Bulandshahr district, have said that they too are keenly awaiting the report and expect justice to be delivered.
 
 “We hope to get the report within two months,” SP (rural) Sujata Singh said. The police have also found that the visa of at least two of the accused had got expired and they had applied at the foreign regional registration office, Sector 15, for visa extension.
 
 The police had lodged an FIR for abduction and murder against five Nigerian students — Usman, Amir, Kabir, Abdul and Sayeed— based on the complaint by the victim's family members.
 
 They were released when a group of African students protested against the police action of picking them up without any concrete evidence.
 
 
