KOLKATA: Two days after chief minister   flagged her concerns over border issues, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) sent its seniormost intelligence officer to Nabanna on Wednesday in a bid to dispel her worries and share information.

 MLall, joint director of Subsidiary  , met Banerjee and top officers and in his one-and-a-half hourlong interaction at the state secretariat he assured them that the MHA would take up the CM's concerns with utmost priority .
 
 The chief minister had earlier alleged that nearly 400 schools have mushroomed around Pashupati Gate near Darjeeling, where Chinese language is being taught. She also pointed fingers at the BSF whose slackness, she alleged, allowed Jama at militants to enter via Satkhi ra and incite communal violen ce through videos.
 
 Lall, however, chose to rea son with his Bengal counter parts that Pashupati Gate is abo ut 31kms from Darjeeling and so many schools can't be located in its vicinity.
 
 His Bengal counterparts ex pressed apprehension that the Siliguri corridor, also referred to as the Chicken's Neck, is vul nerable to insurgency , given the fact that it's about 40 km from Nepal, 8 km from Bangladesh and 150 km from the China border.
 
 According to sources, Lall made it clear that this remained a top priority of the MHA and that all intelligence inputs on the region were scrutinised.
 
 Lall, however, wanted increased co-ordination.
 
 The BSF maintained that there was no significant rise in illegal immigration from across the India-Bangladesh border either before or during the violence in Baduria and Basirhat. An officer of the BSF's Eastern Command in Kolkata said those involved were border criminals from the Indian side.
 
 BSF further claims that such border criminals operate from beyond their jurisdiction and are involved in crimes such as smuggling of cattle, drugs, gold, FICNs and arms. Police, they claim, should act aga inst these elements and tho se arrested (by BSF) are mere couriers.
 
 A team from Kolkata Police has already visited Dhaka to get information on Nasirullah ali as  , a top JMB lea der who was recently arrested and is believed to be associated with the Khagragarh blast. Poli ce commissioner   was also present at Nabanna to brief about the talks at Dhaka and the necessity to extradite Nasirullah was also discussed.The ministry of external affairs is likely to make an appeal to the Bangladesh government for Nasirullah's extradition.
 
 “We want cordial relations with Bangladesh. I have communicated this to the ministry of external affairs. So why is a BJP affiliate burning Bangladesh Prime Minister  's effigies here. Why was it allowed? How is the VHP giving arms training to children in the name of Durga Vahini?
 Parallel governments are being run in the name of gau-rakshaks and vahinis,“ Banerjee had said, asking: “Where is the NIA, the RAW , the NSA and intelligence agencies? Why are borders kept open? What are the SSB and the IB doing here? How are people belonging to the Jamaat being allowed inside?“
 
 (With inputs from Jayanta Gupta) 
 
