GURUGRAM: The   government on Tuesday officially recommended a   investigation into the murder of   student   Thakur but not before the boy's father criticised the delay since the CM had made the announcement four days ago.

 Sleuthing work in the case has gone into a lull and the police, after promising a charge sheet within seven days and forming a special investigation team (SIT), are no longer showing the same urgency since the investigation is out of their hands.
 
 All three arrested in the case so far -bus conductor Ashok Kumar, who has been charged with murder, and   officials Francis Thomas and Jayesh Thomas, who have been booked under the   Justice Act for negligence -have now been sent to judicial custody as everyone waits for the CBI to come into the picture.
 
 The interim pause, as the case waits for a handover from Gurgaon police to the CBI, has angered Pradhyumn's father Barun. “The chief minister had come to meet me last Friday and clearly said the investigation of this case should be done by the CBI. Four days have elapsed after the announcement, but no progress has been made so far.“
 
 Barun had demanded a CBI probe a day after the September 8 murder of Pradhyumn inside the washroom of the school's campus in Bhondsi. Pradhyumn's throat was slit by the killer. Kumar (42) was arrested for the murder and police were moving towards filing a chargesheet against him, claiming he was the only suspect they had, when the CBI probe order came. Kumar's family claimed he was being framed; Barun too had wondered if police had got the right man.
 
 Barun's lawyer Sushil Tekriwal on Tuesday also asked if the government was trying to shield the trustees of the Ryan schools, Augustine, Grac and  . “Is it not that the government is shielding the Pinto family? What the intention of the government is I don't know. Why is the CBI is not taking this case on its own?
 
 Who is stopping the CBI from investigating? Why were there no CBI lawyers during the hearing on the Pinto family's bail petition (in the Punjab and Haryana HC)?“ Tekriwal asked.
 
 The Haryana government said it had has sent a written communication for a CBI probe that had been received by the central government. “It is our endeavour to get a CBI inquiry initiated into this case at the earliest.The state's home department is maintaining constant communication with the central government,“ state additional chief secretary (home) S S Prasad said.
 
 The CBI can only take over an investigation after the central government issues a notification.
 
 Social service organisation Mithilalok Foundation, meanwhile, offered support to Barun. Birbal Jha, its president, said, “Every possible legal aid will be given to the victim's family . This matter is associated with the future of millions of children of the country , not just one child.“
 
