GUWAHATI: Chandra Chetia and  , both lifers at Jorhat Central Jail, have become a source of inspiration for their fellow inmates after they received a Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree from   State Open University (KKHSOU) on Sunday. 

 The two prisoners, convicted in murder cases, were brought to Guwahati to attend the second convocation of the state open university. They were escorted by jail officials.
 
 "To get such an honour is a big accomplishment for us. We are very happy," said Bania who has completed eight years of his jail term. He thanked the officials of the Jorhat Central Jail for supporting his dream of becoming a graduate.
 
 "I had passed Class XII before being convicted. Pursuing higher studies was my ambition. I am more than happy to have received the graduation certificate," he said.
 
 Chetia, on the other hand, entered jail in 1995 even before his Class X board exam results were out. On the verge of completing his jail term, he said he wants to now live a life of dignity.
 
 "Political science and education were my subjects during graduation. I am speechless at the respect I have got in the convocation. Finally, all my hard work has paid off. I am eagerly waiting to start my MA course," said Chetia.
 
 Even Bania has plans to pursue his postgraduation under KKHSOU which has taken a special interest in educating prisoners in Assam. The state open university has opened 13 jail study centres where 183 inmates are pursuing different courses.
 
 Chetia, who was in prison when his schoolmates had started college, does not carry a burden of the past. "It (the crime) was debris dumped on my head," he said as he quietly walked out of the auditorium amid high security. 
 
 Vice-chancellor (in charge) of Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU)   urged students to make full use of open and distant mode of education, which, he said, was changing the lives of the people. 
 
 "In 2017, we need to fully explore the university system and unravel all the possibilities that emerge," Kumar said.
 
