Mumbai: This year’s   healthcare conference in San Francisco, which sets the tone for the industry, saw a sombre mood among Indian pharma captains, given the poor financial results and negative macro headlines. US President   attack on spiraling drug prices,   investigations and warning letters have singed their market value. Sanjiv Kaul, MD of  , arguably the most successful investor in Indian pharma, talks about how these uncertainties would shape up the sector. Excerpts:

 Why the Indian industry, which was booming 12-18 months ago, has now seen consecutive quarters of poor growth in the US?
 
 Price erosion has been much higher than the typical 4-5% due to several reasons: sales channel consolidation, US Congress crackdown on price increases and a sudden spurt in competition. There has been a huge amount of channel consolidation (wholesalers and retailers merging). Currently, the Top Four buyers in the US have a 90% market share compared with a 52% market share in 2012.
 
 Several smaller pharma suppliers have jumped into the US market, especially in the less “complex” products, and have received quick approvals, thanks to  . Last year saw $19 billion worth of branded molecules come off-patent, but $15 billion were plain vanilla products with intense competition.
 
 US Congressional hearings on few companies that had astronomically hiked drug prices have scared CEOs who, for the time being, are not considering any amount of price hikes, even if supplies are in short quantities. 
 
 Is the market over-reacting or are they right to fear President Trump’s policies of repealing   and imposing border tax?
 
 There’s uncertainty about how President Trump’s healthcare policy will shape up, which has the market in panic. A few points need to be kept in mind. There are only 20 million people being covered under Obamacare, which is roughly 7% of the insured population of the US. This will more likely affect patented drugs that are expensive and not the low-cost generic drugs sourced from India. And, border tax, if implemented, will certainly impact profitability of Indian pharma. 
 
 How do you see these developments shaping up M&A appetite of Indian pharma, which has been running high of late?
 
 It could hasten the Indian pharma rejig. These companies could look at acquiring US manufacturing facilities to circumvent protectionism, increase local job creation, mitigate plant concentration risk and for developing more complex filings. They would look at R&D acquisitions to fend off in the low-end vanilla generics market. There’s $60 billion of low competition molecules coming off patent in the next three years. Indian pharma majors have become adept at deals to bolster their market position, enter new therapeutic areas and acquire branding skills with speciality pharma.
 
 Some are ramping up management focus on the US market through possible de-mergers. They could sell a long list of tail brands in the domestic market to raise resources and free up management bandwidth.
 
 Frequent FDA inspections of plants in India, coupled with increased warning letters, have spread panic...
 
 India has the largest number of FDA-approved manufacturing facilities outside the US with over 550 plants. Regulatory inspections have increased with more funding, helping them to expand teams. On a yearly basis, the USFDA conducts inspections in about 200 plants in India compared to 120-130 earlier. This is cyclical and should play out as every other cycle with normalisation expected sooner rather than later.
 
 
