Ludhiana: Sandeep Singh, 30, who was found dead inside his car in Dugri area on Sunday, had died because of drugs, allegedly injected into his body by his friends. According to police, his friends got scared when Sandeep died and left his body in the car and fled.

 The Dugri police have arrested three persons –– Bittu Kumar of Model Town, Umesh Paswan of Jawaddi Kalan, both vegetable venders, and Ranjeet Kumar of Vishal Nagar –– in the case on Saturday. All the three are aged between 25 to 30 years. Bittu Kumar and Umesh Paswan were known to Sandeep Singh,police said.
 
 Sandeep’s mother Baljit Kaur told police that her son had gone somewhere on September 16 and did not return. She alleged that someone had murdered his son. Following which a murder case was registered initially, however the sections in case have been changed now.
 
 The Dugri police have now added Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 404 (dishonest misappropriation of property possessed by deceased person at the time of his death), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC in this context.
 
 Additional deputy commissioner of police (II) Sandeep Garg said, “It has been identified that the man died because of drugs. Whether it had some adverse reaction or it was a case of overdose, the medical report will ascertain the cause.”
 
 ADCP Garg said Sandeep used to purchase vegetables from Bittu and Umesh. The trio was dug addicts and therefore they started taking drugs together. Usually Sandeep would purchase drugs for all three, he said.
 
 “On Saturday, the trio was taking drugs through injection. One of the accused injected drugs to Sandeep and soon after that his health deteriorated and he died. After that the duo called their friend Ranjeet for help. He reached there and told them to escape. However, they were captured in the CCTV cameras installed in the locality,” added ADCP Garg.
 
 The accused have confessed that they did not intend to kill Sandeep and got scared when he died and fled from the car. 
 
 
