ALWAR: Three days after going on a  , a Pakistani prisoner was rushed to the government-run   on Thursday after his condition deteriorated.

 The prisoner, identified as  , who completed his prison term in 2015, is still waiting for orders for his safe return to Pakistan. Doctors at the hospital have treated and made his condition stable.
 
 Kotwali station house officer Ram Singh said that Mahendra was arrested in 2005 from Jodhpur allegedly for spying. For releasing him, the government of India had written to the government of Pakistan. But they have not yet received any satisfactory reply from them. “As of now, we are trying to speak to them. It’s a matter that has to be resolved at the higher level,” Singh said, adding that they can act only as per directions of higher authorities.
 
 Mahendra is not the only foreign prisoner in the transit camp situated at Alwar’s Central Jail. There are 16 others like him, who have completed their prison terms and waiting to go back to their native countries.
 
 Five out of 17 prisoners, who have completed their prison terms, had gone on a hunger strike on January 3. One of them has been admitted to the hospital, while four others are still continuing with the hunger strike. The health department’s officials are monitoring their health regularly.
 
 Mahendra was arrested in 2005 for allegedly spying in India. Sajid, a 45-year-old Pakistan national, who was imprisoned for illegally crossing the border, had completed his term seven months ago.
 
 Among the 17 prisoners who completed their terms, nine are from Pakistan, four from Bangladesh and one each from Sri Lanka, Cameroon, Iran and Myanmar. They have all approached their respective embassies.
 
 They have demanded organizing a counselling session with their respective embassy officials to help them return home.
 
 Cameroon national  , who was arrested for trafficking fake currency notes, completed his term a few months ago.
 
 Javed Aslam, a native of Rahimyarkhan in Pakistan, is waiting to return home since March 11, 2012, and   from Balochistan since August 11.
 
 As they do not have valid visas and other documents, the moment they step out of the jail, they can be arrested again.
 
