Women took over the roads of the Millennium City this Sunday afternoon as over 40   participated in a women's car rally organized by the local NGO WESS. Most of the cars in the rally were decorated with posters bearing slogans and messages promoting various causes, while one participant went all out to cover the entire car with leaves to promote the green cause. "This is our 3rd annual rally and like previous years, we have emphasized upon highlighting social issues through it. Since all participants are women, we thought women empowerment and messages like 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao' were a natural fit. But this year, we have also added the elements of road safety and environment awareness, which we felt are essential in Gurgaon," said Veena Gupta, one of the organizers. The rally was flagged off from near   by Gurgaon's DCP (Traffic) Balbir Singh. The cars took a 40-km trip across new and old Gurgaon going through Golf Course Road, Sohna Road and  , before making their way back at the start/finish line near HUDA City Centre.

  
  Gurgaon's DCP (Traffic) Balbir Singh flags off the rally at HUDA City Centre
 
 
 For the participants, it was an amalgamation of fun and promotion of causes, and some even had a point or two to prove. Nikita Gupta, a Delhi resident, who was participating in her first car rally, said, "I have been driving for at least 17 years, and even today, whenever I stop at a red light, I get glances from people. Even today, people feel that women can’t drive, so I felt that it was necessary for women to come out in such numbers and just have a fun drive, to send out the right message." Valarie, another Delhi resident, added, "The rally was fun. Despite the heat, we had a fun time driving around Gurgaon and enjoying our moment as celebrities. We waved to the people standing on the roadside and they happily waved back. It's a great atmosphere."
 
  
  Sabita enjoyed her ride as much as any other participant (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 
  Among the participants in the rally was the saas-bahu jodi of Indu Kochhar and Tanu, who drove in the rally together with mother-in-law Indu as the driver and daughter-in-law Tanu as the navigator. "We do a lot of activities together, and thankfully, unlike the popular perception, there is not a lot of nok-jhonk between us. So this was another fun thing for us to do together," Indu said.
 
 
 
 
