MUMBAI: England gave a good account of their ability to go deep into the   when they defeated New Zealand 3-2 in their first practice game. More than their victory, it is their ability with the ball that impressed most at the   on Sunday.

 Rhian Brewster's two goals in the second half came after   had opened the account for England in the early minutes. The game was also a good account of England's character because twice they came back from a goal down to defeat New Zealand.
 
 The Kiwis opened the scoring from a counter attack when Oliver Whyte's meaty shot from 20 yards out found the top right corner of the England goal.
 
 England struck immediately when captain Guehi scored from a cross. The Kiwis got the second lead of their match when they struck in the 81st minute through Elijah Just. Again, almost immediately, England replied with a   goal. A minute later Rhian leaped high to head in a routine cross to make it 3-1.
 
 England virtually fielded two sides and among the two, the first half team was clearly class apart. Lead by Gueh in defencei, England were solid in their backline and their midfielders, Conor Gallaghar and Nya Kirby were more than competant. But the real act was the understanding between Callum Odoi and Emile Rowe.
 
 Callum and Emile create three goal-scoring chances. The former was too quick and skillful for the New Zealand defence. His step-overs and roll-overs were brilliant. New Zealand's right back Mathew Jones had more than a handful in trying to deal with Callum who ripped him to shreds. Jones was also wilting in the stifling heat and humidity.
 
 England's second half team displayed better possession and moved the ball around beautifully in the final third. They came pretty close to scoring many times. Perhaps they were waiting for a cue from New Zealand, for as as soon as the Kiwis scored, England replied with two goals from Rhian.
 
 Steve Cooper, the England coach, said he was pleased with the game. "New Zealand were a tough side. This was our first game in India, in Mumbai and we are happy with the way our team has shaped up. We are in the right mode for the Under-17 World Cup," he said.
 
 New Zealand coach,   said his team had two good games against World Class opposition. "We gave a good account today, we could have pulled off a draw against England. We didn't shame ourselves against Brazil. So we are pleased with the preparation," he said.
 
