PUNE: The demons of   have unleashed the Machiavellian instinct in people, prompting them to resort to insidious ways to convert ill-gotten wealth into   — mostly in denomination of Rs 2,000.

 The CEO of   recently came under the scanner after it was found that the bank used unallocated lockers to store cash. “Possibly, the bank officials believed that no one would suspect an unallocated locker,” said a tax official.
 
 Another case of fraudulent transaction came to light when the director general of customs, excise and intelligence booked a Pune-based auto parts supplier for generating fake invoices to claim a CENVAT credit. 
 
 Under the CENVAT (Central Value Added Tax) Scheme, a manufacturer of final product or provider of taxable service is allowed to take credit of excise duty as well as of service tax paid on any input received in the factory or any input service received by manufacturer of final product.
 
 According to officials, the most abused window was the first 15 days post demonetisation when the contractors employed clueless labourers as money mules and businessmen deployed agents to get their old currency exchanged. Since the restriction on withdrawal was controlled by identity card of the individual, those with multiple identity cards queued up multiple times to withdraw cash.
 
 Even some bank officials are suspected to have facilitated the exchange after the banking hours.
 
 An assistant manager of a public sector bank in Belgaum recalled a contractor “bringing labourers to stand in a queue to exchange currency. All of them came with Aadhaar cards and had the same address of the construction site”.
 
 Quite a few rich individuals also backdated transactions to get rid of the old notes. 
 
 Pune-based Marathe Jewellers has come under the scanner of the tax department for booking transactions to the tune of Rs 60 crore in the few days preceding demonetisation. 
 
 According to tax officials, the transaction value of the jeweller in October and November of 2016 exceeded the total transaction value for 2015 and 2014.
 
 The   has also found a “syndicate” of 40 people which acted in sync with car-dealer Ishanya Hyundai to help  , a Texas-based manufacturer of pressure and flow control equipment, exchange currency at a premium of 20-25%. “Some of them were businessmen, who were a part of the syndicate. We are still investigating the case,” said a CBI official, adding, “The dealer could have helped more people and so could have these 40 members. It was a regular practise to ‘rotate’ money among themselves.”
 
 Since the demonetisation exercise began on November 8, the tax department has seized currency of over Rs 500 crore -- over Rs 110 crore of these in new notes.
 
 
