VISAKHAPATNAM: The   ( ) along with   and   has over the last 20 years subjected the soils in Visakha Agency to horticulture, soil conservation and social forestry projects. 

 Though many of them have been successful, especially in Ananthagiri (where coffee was first grown in Vizag district), Araku, Paderu and Sileru, the pressure on land is taking away the fertility.
 
 Soil conservation expert and scientist P B Murthy, “Soil analysis indicates that most of the Agency areas are denuded. There has been a lot of top   due to slash and burn cultivation techniques used. This has also led to a fall in the quality of traditional oil seeds such as horse gram which was traditionally grown in the Agency areas of north coastal AP and were known for their rich mineral content. However, with the erosion of top soils and essential minerals alike, there has been a definite drop in the nutritional value of these seeds.”
 
 Murthy further said another reason for soil erosion is the introduction of cattle farming and manifold increase in the number of goats and sheep. “Animal husbandry has failed miserably in the Agency area as most of the tribals do not know how to sustain the animals. More importantly, the dumping of cattle to boost animal husbandry industry has led to over grazing and large scale deforestation.”
 
 K Bhimayya, member of a social forestry group in Chintapalli, said, “We formed the group in 2001 and have so far managed to re-forest barely 25 acre of land under podu cultivation. Many of us still indulge in podu cultivation and it is difficult to wean them away from the practice.” 
 
 P Krishnaji, a resident of a mandal adjacent to Araku, said, “In the last three decades, we have taken up and assisted in various programmes conducted by the ITDA and forest department. However, as teachers, we have failed to educate the tribals on the importance of keeping the forests intact. This is because on the one hand, the government wants them to preserve forest land while on the other, they introduced animal husbandry and various other projects which do not give the tribals any returns.”
 
 Meanwhile, ITDA authorities claimed that they promoted horticulture in the Agency areas and reclaimed a lot of land which were rendered useless. They also observed that they were working on re-introducing some of the native varieties.
 
 Soil analysis indicates that most of the Agency areas are denuded. There has been a lot of top soil erosion due to slash and burn cultivation techniques used. This has also led to a fall in the quality of traditional oil seeds such as horse gram which was traditionally grown in the Agency areas of north coastal AP and were known for their rich mineral content. With the erosion of top soils there has been a drop in the nutritional value of these seeds.
 
