From October 7 this year, Malayalis will have reasons like never before to cheer for football. 

 With Kochi set to host eight matches in this years’ Under 17 FIFA World Cup, the football crazy State is looking forward to witness the next big names in the game and some classic moments from teams like Brazil, Germany, Spain, France and Columbia.
 The questions on how the host team will perform are also on the minds of the fans as Kochi Times finds out what they looking forward to:
 
 
 
 The first and second stages of sale of tickets – which are priced between `40 and `400 — was reportedly met with a lukewarm response but many hard-core fans say that they didn’t find it easy to get tickets.
  Football trainer Rahul M L, who bagged one, says, “I managed to book the ticket online, after waiting patiently for around 45 minutes. I have booked one each for matches of Brazil, Spain and a quarter final.”
 However, his friend Gautham V P couldn’t get tickets this time. “But I will book it, when the window opens on July 21, next. I am quite interested to watch Brazil play,” he assures.
 
 Apart from the six group matches, the Jawaharlal Nehru International Stadium in Kaloor, will also host a pre-quarter final and a quarter final matches. The stadium is the third largest in India and is touted to be one of the noisiest stadiums in the world, due to its distinct architecture and capacity of over 60,000.
 
 
 
 For many Malayalis, the days on which Brazil plays in Kerala would also be the moments to try to get an autograph from  , one of the most promising players of the team. N V Subair, President of Nainamvalappu football fans association in Kozhikode, says, “He is touted as the future Neymar and could also play for the next World Cup in Russia. If so, I will be thrilled to say that I had watched him play in Kochi. Many of us from Kozhikode will be travelling to Kochi to watch Brazil play.”
 
 Vinicius recently signed a deal with Real Madrid for around 50 million Euros (`368 crore). Banker Sreejith P R, a football fan from Kochi, says, “I would definitely ensure that I get Vinicius’ autograph and once that’s done, the others’ too. Many players from U17 team of Brazil have gone on to be World Cup superstars and I am sure many of them will, from this team too.”
 Well, that doesn’t mean only Brazil enjoys fandom in Kerala. Unni Paravannoor, who runs a football portal in Kochi, says, “Argentina also gets ample youth support from Kerala. Spain is another favourite team because of clubs Real Madrid and Barcelona.   of Spain, for instance, is one such popular player.”
 Mateu Morey of Spain, Jann-Fiete Arp of Germany, Khaled Lawali Ibrahim of Niger and Djibril Toure of Guinea are some of the popular players who will be displaying their footie skills.
 While many are waiting to watch their world-class performance, a few also want to check out some cute footballers. “Someone told me that Jann-Fiete of Germany is very cute and I happened to google him. Yes, he is! And so is Mateu Morey of Spain. My friends and I are planning to cheer for them,” says Anitta Anna John, an IT professional.
 
 
 
 India is in Group A, which also has Columbia, Ghana and the USA, each of which plays different styles of the game, fans say. Regardless of their performance, the home team will get the maximum applause.
 According to businessman Mathew Jose, “Well, it’s no Bollywood movie and the chances of the team beating all odds to emerge winners is next to nil. That said, we have been cheering for the rest of the teams and clubs at the international level so far as India was nowhere to be seen. Now that we qualified for the event as hosts, I hope we will make the best use of the opportunity. We would cheer for everything we accomplish.”
 Subair feels that if we make it to the quarter finals, it will be like winning the World Cup. “The rest of the teams come with a lot of experience, scientific facilities and training infrastructure than us, so it would be a challenge. I wish India was playing in Kochi than in Delhi, as we are obviously a lot more passionate about the game. The support from the gallery can work wonders, you know!”
 Thanks to the kind of quality exposure and some good performance, many youngsters are familiar with the star players of India, even much better than the senior team members, says Unni. “We will be really lucky to get a draw from that group, but India’s U17 does have some talented players like Komal Thatal from Sikkim, Malayali boy Rahul K P, captain Suresh Wangjam of Manipur, Aniket Yadav of Maharashtra and Anwar Ali from Punjab.”
 
 
