PUNE: When   FC were in Pune to play DSK Shivajians last season, they were fighting to save relegation. On Tuesday they were playing for the top position in the  . The result on both occasions was identical: a 1-0 win for Aizawl.

 Aizawl FC didn't start like toppers but they finished the game like one as they defeated the hosts in their I-League match at Shiv Chhatrapati sports complex in Balewadi. With the win, the NorthEastern side went to the top spot with 29 points from 13 games. They are two points ahead of East Bengal, who lost 1-2 to  .
 
 Aizawl midfielder Laldanmawia Ralte scored the winner in the 85th minute that brought a sense of déjà vu as it was sort of repeat of Aizawl's home match against Shivajians last month. In the first leg too, Aizawl had scored a late winner in the 89th minute. The first half, barring a few chances by Shivajians' midfielder Seityasen Singh, didn't produce any scoring opportunity.
 
 For the visitors, the first half went in finding space.
 
 Their ace striker Bayi Kamo was tightly marked by Shivajians defenders Sasa Kolunija (Serbia) and Sairuat Kima. Being trapped from either side, the Aizawl's top-scorer (3), found it difficult to even move his shoulders freely, let alone create chances or receive them. His desperation was clear when he literally had to shove the duo to move. Their other foreigners, Alfred Jaryan (Liberia) and young midfielder Brandon Vanlalremdika too couldn't do much than waiting for lapses in Shivajians' defense, which were rare in the first half.
 
 Ralte missed some chances   created in Shivajians box. One came in the 22nd minute when he missed a cross in front of rival custodian Subrata Pal.The Aizawl striker took too much time to position himself where a quick shot could have done the trick.
 
 The pace of the match improved in the second half when both the sides made substitutions to bring in fresh legs. Aizawl brought in H Lalmuankima in the 67th minute. The winger had a better sense of breaking Shivajians defence consisting of Jerry Lalrinzuala and Kolunija.
 
 In the 85th minute, Lalmuankima dribbled past Nirmal Chhetri from the left wing before setting an easy chance for Ralte, who obliged by shooting it from 15 feet. Shivajians looked to equalize and a corner in the fourth minute of the added time was their only hope. Pal too joined his teammates to be involved in the flag kick. The shot was cleared by the defence and the subsequent rebound didn't bother Albino Gomes much.
 
 Shivajians will now host   on Saturday.
 
