Visakhapatnam: Students are not only abusing   but are also becoming drug peddlers for the sake of easy money, according to city police sources. They are selling drugs online to other users, most of whom are students as well. 

 Sources revealed that drug peddlers have been conducting their illicit trade through a number of WhatsApp groups. All information related to the sale and purchase of the drugs is shared between the users and the suppliers on these groups. “According to our information, drug users are operating around 30 WhatsApp groups. There might be hundreds, but so far we have found out about a few ,” one of the police officer said.
 
 According to police statistics, the usage of Fortwin injections and Alprazolam tablets is high among students and auto drivers in the city. Around 90% of the youth are using Fortwin injections. The sale of Fortwin, which is generally prescribed by gynaecologists, are high in the port city, but youths are not procuring these injectable sedatives from medical shops, they are using other means.
 
 The injections are administered to pregnant women during delivery for pain relief as it has sedative properties, the city task force assistant commissioner of police I Chitti Babu told TOI. The medical shops in the city are now not selling the injections without prescription in the city. Alprazolam is prescribed for the patients with mental health disorders. It induces drowsiness in the users. In the first six months of this year, the city task force cops seized 10,000 Alprazolam tablets. Youths have been procuring these drugs from the neighbouring state of Odisha. 
 
 Sources revealed that the Fortwin injection costs around Rs 10 in Odisha but given the demand it is sold for Rs 100 to Rs 150 in the city. Likewise one strip of 10 tablets of Alprazolam costs Rs 40 in Odisha and drug pedlers sell it for Rs 150. One of the senior inspectors in the city police wing said that the drug suppliers buy these drugs in huge quantities from Odisha. “Youths go to Odisha to procure these drugs. They will get more than Rs 100 for each Fortwin injection whose original cost is around Rs 10. That means they are getting more than ten times the revenue,” the taskforce ACP said. 
 
 
