It was a show of bonhomie especially for those who said the rift in the Yadav family was permanent. First came SP patriarch  . Making an emotional pitch for `chhoti bahu' Aparna, the   candidate from the   constituency, Mulayam said his own honour rode on Aparna's electoral success.“Aparna is related to me. She is my son's wife, my bahu.My honour rides on her success. Vote for her and make her win with a huge margin,“ Mulayam said.

 Later in the day, it was `badi bhabi' and Kannauj MP  's turn to come out in support of `dewarani' Aparna. If the shutterbugs were sniffing for a chance to see the sparks fly , there was none of it. The duo were all smiles, sharing notes, and even discussing points that should be made during their speeches. Playing the affectionate older sister, Dimple addressed the gathering of traders in Naka Hindola. She said, “Last time, this seat did not extend the support it should have to the Samajwadi Party.
 
 This time, that mistake must be rectified. You are not only choosing a legislator, but also the chief minister of the state. The Samajwadi Party is the only one that has delivered on its promises. In future, we will not only give smart phones, but also pressure cookers to women, and cycles to girls.“ Dimple, who appeared more at ease with her speech-making than she has been before--the last few days of campaigning for SP's women candidates appears to have made the usually reticent MP more comfortable behind a mic--also attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi's demonetisation decision.
 
 Dimple also harped on how the Cantonment seat has benefitted the most from the Lucknow Metro rail facility, launched by the SP government. Amidst slogans and cheers, Dimple said the Lucknow Metro project was completed with Netaji's blessings. She said, “Now even the prime minister has said he will come and sit in our metro. None of this work was done by buaji.“
 
 If Dimple promised better education and health facilities for the people of the state, Mulayam promised railway workers he would take up for them with rail minister Suresh Prabhu, and do away with the `chungi' (toll) for traders whose vehicles passed though the Cantonment. On Wednesday , Mulayam also said the SP government, which had supported health facilities, would provide free medical aid to those who need it.
 
 Mulayam and Dimple, though, wont be the only ones seeking support for Aparna.On Thursday , Aparna will also have chief minister Akhi lesh Yadav campaigning for her at Awadh Girls square.Aparna, who appealed to the crowds as the daughter and bahu of the Cantonment seat also urged the crowd to raise the slogans: “Button humara kahan dabega, Cycle waaley khane mein.“
 
