HYDERABAD: A man from Kolkata duped a student of Rs 1.5 lakh and used the money at a  . He was arrested on Friday.

 Acting on a complaint by a B Tech graduate Yedukondalu, from Nagole, cyber crime police of Rachakonda commissionerate picked up   from   area in Kolkata on charges of fraud.
 
 “The victim paid Rs 1.5 lakh hoping that he would get a job. The culprit used the money for hair transplants. When we nabbed him, he was outside a   clinic in Park Street,” said inspector Md Riazuddin, an investigating officer.
 
 In November 2016, while on a job hunt, Yedukondalu saw an advertisement on Quikr.com seeking applications from engineering graduates for jobs in various software companies. When he responded to the advertisement, he was asked to send his resume to one Tapan with relevant documents. Tapan asked the victim to deposit Rs 50,000 for the interview call with  , based in Gachibowli.
 
 After two days, a person posing as a HR manager of the company took a fake telephonic interview and Yedukondalu was asked to deposit another Rs 1,00,000. When this demand was made, Riazuddin said, “Yedukondalu asked for an offer letter first, after which only he would deposit the money.”
 
 He later received an offer letter from an email ID narendergoudghr@zensar.com. Since the email ID had an extension of Zensar, the student fell believed the letter was genuine and deposited the money in an account based in Odisha. A visit to Zensar Technologies office at Gachibowli revealed that the offer letter was fake, police said.
 
 During investigation, the police learnt that Swain had sent fake emails with a forged copy of an offer letter. One of the bank accounts in which the amount was transferred belonged to one Mohpada Rasayani of Raigad district, Maharashtra, while the other was of Naugaon from Odisha. “After careful analysis of the bank statement of both the accounts, we learnt that the debit card linked to one of the accounts was used for payment in a hair transplant clinic at Kolkata,” Riazuddin added. Cops also seized cellphones used to communicate with the victim.
 
