JAIPUR: While promoting Raje government’s flagship Bhamashah   Insurance Scheme, key schemes, including  , are facing deliberate neglect from the government, the NGOs alleged on Thursday. 

 Ahead of Raj budget speech, an umbrella organisation of NGOs under   (JSA), Rajasthan, on Thursday strongly condemned government’s indulgence in privatization of public health facilities. Also, they hit hard on huge promotion of government’s health insurance at the cost of compromising with other health programmes. They demanded that the government in state’s budget should promote and expand the universal health schemes rather than encouraging privatisation in health schemes. 
 
 They pointed out that the focus of the government has been shifted from universal health schemes to targeted interventions. “Earlier, the schemes which were launched for all including free medicine schemes and free diagnostic test schemes facing ignorance of the government while the government is promoting targeted intervention schemes such as Bhamashah which is not for all,” JSA office-bearers said. 
 
 “The government is promoting privatisation in primary health care services. The government has already released tenders for handing over 213 PHCs to private agencies to be run under the Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode,” they said.
 
 They alleged that this shift has completely taken a toll on two of the most prominent health schemes of the state, Mukhyamantri Nishulk   (MNDY) and Mukhyamantri Nishulk Jaanch Yojana (MNJY), leaving both the schemes to crumble on their own due to deliberate neglect of the government.
 
 They said, “It has been evident that a lot of resources, human resources as well as financial, which were supposed to be invested in these two schemes have now been diverted to sustain other priority schemes of the government such as Bhamashah. Recently, there have been reports of a slash of Rs70 crore in the budget for free medicines which is certainly going to do a lot of damage to the scheme. There are also reports that the data entry operators at the health facilities who carried out real time entries of prescriptions thus making it possible to monitor exact availability of medicines at the point of delivery through the e-Aushadhi software have been removed from most of the facilities and shifted to other programs.”
 
 As a result of diversion of resources distribution of free medicines has been hit hard. “The government must realise that Bhamashah cannot be seen as a substitute of free medicines and free diagnostics schemes, and any compromises made in the two schemes may leave many poor patients deprived of essential medicines and diagnostics,” they said.
 
 
