Tirupur: Six people, five of them associated with three different primary agricultural credit societies, were killed after a SUV in which they were travelling fell down from a flyover when a TNSTC bus hit the vehicle from behind on Kochi-Salem Highway near Avinashi on Friday.

 Four among them were on their way to catch a flight at the Coimbatore airport to reach Delhi to attend a national-level programme on cooperative credit societies development. Meanwhile, the SUV driver who also sustained severe injuries is undergoing treatment at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital.
 
 Chairman of Primary Agricultural Cooperative Credit Society (PACCS), Tiruchengode, P N Kandasamy of Patharai, its vice-chairman S R James alias Ramu of Kachapalli and its director K Kathirvel of Konganapuram were among the deceased. While the latter two were supposed to attend the programme in the national capital, Kandasamy, who was also an AIADMK functionary, and his party cadre Muthusamy of Pallipatti accompanied them to send them off at the airport.
 
 Secretary of Kachapalli PACCS Rathinam and director of Villiarasampalayam agricultural marketing society Nallasamy were also travelling in the SUV belonging to Tiruchengode PACCS. The SUV was driven by Bala Murugan, a government staff.
 
 When they reached Thekkalur, 25km from the airport, on Kochi-Salem national highway during morning hours on Friday, the state-run bus plying between Erode and Coimbatore accidentally hit the vehicle from behind. The SUV hit the sidewall of the flyover and fell down from the height of more than 30 feet, said a police officer.
 
 After rolling down the flyover, the SUV capsized on one of the service roads of the six-way. On information, the Avinashi police and fire and rescue services teams reached the spot. They along with the public tried to rescue them. But five out of the seven passengers were found dead inside the vehicle. Only Nallasamy and Bala Murugan were alive, said a fire and rescue services personnel.
 
 When both the injured were rushed separately to different hospitals, Nallasamy died on the way while Bala Murugan was admitted to CMCH. The Avinashi police have registered a case and are conducting inquiry with the TNSTC driver.
 
 Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, electricity minister P Thangamani and social welfare minister V Saroja have paid homage to P N Kandasamy at Patharai in Tirunchengode taluk of Namakkal district. Palaniswami also paid homage to Kathirvel at Konganapuram, which falls in Edappadi taluk of Salem district.
 
 
