BHOPAL: Unlike an apprehension over quality of Chinese products back in India, there is a growing acknowledgement and popularity about ‘Mandarin,’ the language largely spoken in Dragon land. The   is so much in demand that Madhya Pradesh government has decided introduce a five-year integrated course in Mandarin at its   of Buddhist India-Indic Studies, 40 kilometers from Bhopal, from the next academic session.

 In a first in Central India, there will be a five-year integrated programme in Mandarin (Chinese) and the University has received request from over 50 students from different parts to start a full-fledged Chinese course. “On the students demand, a decision has been taken to start the five-year integrated programme,” said Vijay Dubey, university’s assistant director (public relations).
 
 He said a certificate course on Chinese was started last year. “We have 20 students enrolled in the course, including four officials from Indo Tibetan   (ITBP), who have come to do the basic Chinese course due to their border posting.
 
 Introducing the five-year integrated programme in Mandarin is in the interest of students as well as of the university. Officials said for the students, knowing Chinese attracts good job opportunities in China and companies world over, including India.
 
 While for the university, it will help in ancient Indian manuscripts, which had been taken to China and are with them, to be translated in Hindi- a job which can be done by Indian having expertise to read and write Chinese.
 
 Officials said the university has one Chinese faculty as of now. It will recruit professors of Chinese language and will get in guest faculties from China and other places for running the five-year integrated programme in Mandarin.
 
 The students will include both the ones enrolled in on-going certificate course and the fresh students. Basic admission criteria will be high school. Students will also have to appear in the exam conducted by the university.
 
 Assistant professor, Prachi Agarwal told TOI that the decision to start the integrated course in Chinese language was taken after interest shown by a number of students. “Our certificate course is already hit among students”, she said, adding that there is a huge demand to learn Hindi in China as well”
 
 Khemraj Sharma, student of university’s on going Chinese certificate course said, “There are very less educational campuses in the country that have courses in Chinese language. It is good that Sanchi University has come up with the plan to introduce a proper PG course. This will not only help students of the country but also from other countries.”
 
 The university was established in 2012 and has 17 courses in which 70 students are enrolled. Officials even on attaining full strength, university will not have more than 500 students, as their emphasis is on quality education.
 
 
