Study after study, both at home and globally, has revealed that India has a high rate of accidents and abysmal driving behaviour. One young schoolgirl in Noida, however, who's not even old enough to drive here yet, has decided not to adopt the 'we are like this only' attitude.  , a 16-year-old Class XII student in Noida, has started a campaign to educate people about   and driving etiquette. 

  Explaining how she embarked upon the endeavour, Sneha says, "I was about 11 when my family moved to India. One thing that bothered me then -and still does - is all that noise, honking and maddening behaviour on the roads. I vividly remember all the pleasant road trips with my family in the US. Though I do understand that India has a much larger population density and people from many more social strata on the roads than most other developed countries, this alone could not be the reason for the unruly behaviour," she says. 
 
  What started as a small school project on road safety in 2014 became the subject of her curiosity, Sneha says. "I started reading articles on road safety, forming opinions on the subject and writing blogs. In 2014, I started 'My Road Safety' and started doing some campaigns, which mainly involved talking to neighbours, sometimes handing out pledge cards to complete strangers. Slowly, I started believing this is more of a behavioural and social problem."
 
  Sneha, a Class XII student at Noida's Lotus Valley International School, says emphatically, "Little is being done to educate new drivers on road mannerisms. Bullying through honking, disdain for pedestrians and irregular lane driving are all considered acceptable, even by young drivers. Passing the buck to the lone traffic policeman and non-functioning traffic lights is not going to help. We need to talk to people, especially young drivers, about the importance of being patient on the roads."
 
  
  
 
  Since she is still a student, school gives her a platform -she organizes road safety awareness camps and often speaks on the topic in inter-school competitions, in the morning assembly, and even when parents are waiting during parent-teacher meetings! She has also participated in Happy Streets, organized by the Noida Authority and the police and presented by  . She has gone out to busy intersections in Noida a few times to speak to motorists, and is usually accompanied by her father, sometimes her mother and her friends. On her fourth 'road visit' to the intersection outside GIP in Sector 18, we accompanied her to see how Noida motorists reacted to a schoolgirl telling them how to drive. "I am going to talk to them about not honking, having empathy towards other drivers, being patient and taking the road safety pledge," she said. 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 At the busy intersection at GIP, along with her father, she started the activity, speaking to motorists by the side of the road. Everyone she spoke to, many of them clearly flouting the rules, said they always followed them. Sudhansh Dayal was at the wheel and on his phone when he saw Sneha coming towards him carrying posters and stickers on road safety. She politely asked him what he did to drive safe, and he replied, "I follow all road safety rules. It's just that I can't avoid looking at my phone and taking calls during driving." Sneha replied, "I really appreciate you following all the rules, but using mobile phones while driving is something that we all must avoid since it can distract us and lead to accidents."
 
  Next was a cab driver who was parked in the middle of the road, apparently waiting for his passengers. He replied, "Hum toh saare rules follow karte hain, par yahan ke authorities ko bhi traffic regulate karna aana chahiye. Koi beemar ho ya ambulance aaye road pe toh usse pehle jaane dena chahiye." Sneha gave him her stickers, and he asked for more, saying, "Mere paas toh chaar gaadiyan aur hain, aur stickers de do."
 
  
  This cab driver said he followed all the rules, and blamed the authorities for not regulating traffic better
 
  
  Sneha also approached a family tripling on a bike and started explaining safe driving to them, and how one should be patient on the road. Sandeep Kumar, the rider, said,"Hum toh hamesha rules follow karte hain. Bas yahan ke gaddhe theek ho jayein toh chalna sahi ho jaye. Waise naye CM aaye hain toh lag raha hai ki kuch kar toh rahe hain. Ab dekho kya hota hai. Baaki public ko toh jagruk hona hi hoga."
 
  
  Sandeep and his family also said they followed all the rules, and said the potholes were the problem
 
 
  Some people she approached were unwilling to spare the time to talk. A lady coming out from the mall said, "What is all this? I don't have time for this." However, the presence of a camera seemed to alter the response, and she then proceeded to politely hear Sneha out, even accepting the road safety pledge card. However, Sneha got a fair amount of "I have to run, I really don't have time" too. 
 
  Sneha, tired and a bit disappointed by then, was encouraged by her father and by more sensible motorists like Monika, a driver who approached the young girl and started asking her questions. "Do you think we are responsible for the rampant flouting of traffic rules, or is it the laws?" she asked, and they proceeded to discuss the issue. An autowallah Sneha spoke to was also quick to reply, "Madam, main toh ji saare rules follow karta hoon, aage bhi karunga."
 
  
  Monika came up to Sneha herself and discussed why people break traffic rules
 
 
  Explaining why she does this, Sneha says, "This is the best way to talk to people about road safety rules. It has a direct impact. The first time I did this, no one listened to me. I see more people now discussing these things and taking the road safety pledge."
 
  
  
 
