COIMBATORE: Despite the   the district has been experiencing for the past week,   say this   is likely to be warmer than usual. Coimbatorians, who had been sweating it out under temperatures between 35 deg C and 37 deg C, began hoping for a nearly pleasant summer after the showers. But forecasters say that with no signs of   or troughs forming over the next few months, the summer is likely to be an “extremely hot” one.

 The district recorded 7 mm of rain at the TNAU station and only 0.2 mm at the Peelamedu station on Tuesday. “There was heavy thunder and lightning, but the actual rain received was not much,” said assistant professor at the Agro Climate Research Station at TNAU G Dheebakaran. “Such thunderstorms are common when ground temperatures are above 30 deg C,” said meteorologist at Skymet Weather Services Mahesh Palawat.
 
 Weather experts attribute the activity to movement of a weather trough from Marathwada through interior Karnataka and finally Kerala. “Since the trough is moving towards Kerala,   and other districts close to Kerala are receiving some scattered rainfall,” said Palawat. “ Scattered rainfall is expected to continue for the next few days,” he added.
 
 However, after the next three days, weather experts warn of a “warmer” summer through March and April. “There is significant activity over the southern peninsula, but there is no sign of more weather troughs or systems,” said Palawat. “So it looks like the summer will be warmer than average,” he said.
 
 The other problem is that the south-west and north-east monsoons have failed in the district. “With the monsoons failing, the ground temperatures are generally higher than normal because of the absence of moisture. With many forests, trees and plants drying up due to water shortage, there will be less greenery and longer hours of bright sunshine,” said the director of the Agro Climate Research Station at Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) S Paneerselvam.
 
 Temperatures are expected to start rising from Friday. “Temperatures between 35 deg C and 37 deg C will be normal and it will go up to 38 deg C a few times,” said Paneerselvam.
 
 The district is expected to receive around 130 mm of rain until May. It has received 60 mm of rain so far.
 
