If you are one of those who rarely feels excited about the idea of sex, while your partner is always up for some action in bed, it's time to get your   checked...
 
  When it comes to sex, couples seem to have different expectations from each other. Be it the way they wish to indulge, or the way they wish to enjoy; most of the time couples seem to have completely different levels of sexual drive. However, the ultimate goal is seeking pleasure and that is all that matters. To develop better sexual compatibility , one must know what type of   drive you have.Here are a few common sex drives that most people boast of...
  
  
 
  
  These people need lovemaking to cope up with life -to make them happy , cheer them up when under pressure, make up for a bad day or fight -basically to serve as their primary stress reliever. They are the ones who want to have sex quite regularly , since it works for them as exercise, yoga or meditation would for other people. “In fact they can even lose their temper if they do not get sex when they need it; their partners usually feel drained by the constant pressure to have sex,“ says Pradeep Sinha, a sexologist. They do not indulge in any other activity as a stress-reliever, since they think sex is the only thing that works for them.
  
  
 
  
  They are the most fussy people, they are extremely picky and particular about the things that arouse them. They are all about details and derive pleasure from only a few things and expect their partner to master these tactics. Those with persistent sex drive have weird sexual fantasies which are usually inspired from some thing they have seen or read.Another sexpert Rohini Giri, says, “On the other side, sometimes it can be a lot of fun since they turn the act to be interesting with their fetishes. They are probably the most thrilling partners as their sex drive will make sure you never get bored of the act.“
  
  
 
  
  These people are selfish and only think about self-satisfaction; they believe they deserve to get whatever they want in the bedroom. They always like to have it their way and only think about their personal pleasure. They make sure that their partners value their desires more than their own, and are unlikely to compromise. They can usually get impatient if their desires are not fulfilled.
  
  
 
  
  Some people might develop the disinterested sex drive due to stress -from work, family , relationships, etc. Sinha adds, “The issue with this particular sex drive is that it does not normalise after things get better and situations improve. Most of them lose their confidence in their sexual abilities and no longer understand their wants; some of them even ignore their sexual wants since they feel other things are more important.“ Even if their partner tries to initiate any sort of physical contact, they try to avoid them. They also can be termed as detached as they are no longer into sexual pleasures. They might sometimes give in to their partner's insistence, but never initiate the act. Chadha also feels, “They do not show any interest in sex and if they ever feel an urge, they do not mind satisfying themselves or just putting it away for some other time.“
  
  
 
  
  These people believe in being emotionally connected to each other while having sex; in fact they physical connection is secondary . For sensual lovers, sex is the way to develop their relationship (chemistry) with their partners. They never force themselves or constantly believe in coaxing their partner to have sex. They are extremely accommodating and care about their partner's feelings and works towards their involvement in the act than just their physical presence. They will never make an attempt to get intimate, if they feel disconnected.
  
  
 
  
  They cannot resist any opportunity to have sex. They cannot take rejection easily , as they need to vent out their arousal somewhere. They do not usually care if you are not in the mood or are unwell to have sex; they just want to feed their addiction and would find a way to do so if you do not provide them the means. Giri adds, “The ones with an addictive sex drive can also cheat, at times when they are denied sex by their partners. Hence it is difficult for them to stay in a stable relationship.“ People with an addictive sex drive usually have multiple relationships since they get allured with different sex partners who are easily available.
  
  
 
  
  They believe in intense, passionate and action-packed lovemaking; they always need the heat to be turned up.They like things steamy and would experiment until they achieve their desired level of passion.Sexologist Anil Kumar Chadha says, “For them, it is the most important part of their relationship and hence they expect a lot of aggression; which can seem difficult to people at times.“
  
  However, they believe more in quality than quantity; and crave for a satisfying act, than a long lasting one.
  
