THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   of Puttingal temple, which bore the brunt of public ire following the tragic turn of events, will be re-elected on May 21. The election – which is held every three years – had to be postponed for another year after committee members were jailed for nearly three months.

 As per the system followed in the temple, a counsel appointed by the court acts as the election officer. The election follows the same mode of assembly elections and it involves four karas – Kongal, Kurumandal, Koonayil and Pozhikkara. The members are elected based on community, with each karas ensuring the representation of Nair community, other castes and spots reserved for the priest community. Eight members will be elected from the Nair community, four from other castes and three from the priest community.
 
 Three members of the present committee, including secretary Krishnankutty, will contest this year. “It is crucial for the committee to ensure the presence of old members considering their involvement in the case. As far as temple committee is concerned, it is important that they come out clean and the contest is going to be tough this year. Some of the present members have been denied permit to leave the country. They hope to win elections and win the case as well,” said resident, who followed temple affairs.
 
 The administration of the temple was riddled with legal tangles since 1960s when the founder family was pressurised to share administrative affairs among other communities. A court order issued in 1972 had directed the formation of Hindu public religion trust which suggested choosing members from Hindu religion to run the administrative committee. Over the years, the election became community-driven prestigious affair for the respective communities spread across four karas.
 
 Sajukumar, a resident, said that the newly-elected committee will have a real task at hand. “On one side they have to proceed with the case and prove their innocence. Simultaneously they will have to rebuild the image of temple,” he said.
 
