When K R Mahendra Kumar retired, he decided that he wanted to pen the new chapter of his life by starting something unique. Years later, when inspiration struck, he came up with the idea of establishing a free library, one that would be unmanned and stay open for 24 hours. Today, two years after the launch the Read & Return   (RFL), is now present in 22 locations across the city.

 "I am not a voracious reader but I had 30 to 40 English and Tamil books," says the former employee of the department of communications. Initially, he kept some books and Tamil magazines on the table of a cement shop near his house in  , Thirumullaivoyal. Since not many avid readers frequented a cement shop, Kumar then bought a steel cupboard, which he put outside his home. He also made a poster, and invited the local ward councilor to inaugurate his library in April 2015.
 
 As word spread, and books poured in, branches of RFL sprung up across the city. For instance, his former classmate Capt R Venkataramanan, 67, started an RFL in T Nagar in 2016. "I wanted to encourage people to read hard copies of books. People now read online or have switched to e-readers but holding a book gives a different feeling," says Venkataramanan.
 
 Though the original idea was to run RFLs unsupervised so that people could freely access them, due to practical concerns, it doesn't always function like that, says Kumar, adding that RFLs have come up in gated communities as well as inside old age homes.
 
 Though friends and relatives have contributed books, Kumar also decided to approach renowned authors and request them to part with their works. "I scoured the internet to get their contacts, and mailed them along with a photo of my free library," says Kumar. "Over the years, many authors, including Balakumaran and Indumathi have responded."
 
 The original library has grown to four cupboards full of books, and Kumar has now a collection of over 5,000 books in various languages, which have been distributed to RFLs across Chennai. "I also have designated book collection points across the city," he says.
 
 For residents, having a free library in the neighbourhood is a boon. "It is useful as I can drop in whenever I want to and pick up books on a range of topics. At my age, reading is a good way to pass time," says Somasekar Rao, 66, who frequents the RFL in Thirumullaivoyal.
 
 Often, books do go missing as people may not return them, but Kumar is not disheartened. "The idea behind RFL is not just to read and gain more knowledge. It is also about learning how to handle an unmanned item; it is a character building activity," he says.
 
 On his website, www.rfllibrary.com, he also has a section, Student's Corner, and that's what he is focusing on now. "I want students to donate their old books. Those who are interested can contact me, and I will put up the details on my website so that students who want the books and live close by can collect it directly from the person concerned," says Kumar. "What's more, it needn't be restricted to Chennai as it is something that can be done across India."
 
