KOLKATA: Had   been alive today, chances are that he would have appeared in court in the   skeleton case. A chargesheet was filed long back and he could not attend the hearing of the case on September 20 and December 28 last year. March 17 was decided as the next date of hearing. But on February 21 this year, De was found dead in his flat, just after completing the registration of the Rs 1-crore property.

 In 2015, many had wondered if the property issue had any connection with the deaths of De’s sister Debjani and father Aurobindo. The issue came to the fore again after De’s death. 
 
 Though civic records still show that the Robinson Street property belongs to De’s grandfather, his two bank accounts this February reportedly had a balance of approximately Rs 2 crore. He had even bought a flat worth Rs 1 crore. “Substantial sums of money reportedly in the range of Rs 99 lakh have moved into one of his accounts in June 2016. What remains in that account is also substantial. The key to his life and death lies in the study of when and through whom were his bank accounts opened and how substantial amounts got accumulated there,” said solicitor  , who used to advise Aurobindo on his property matters.
 
 De was virtually penniless when his father died, said Majumdar. “This should arouse the curiosity of the income tax department as well. All his accounts need to be thoroughly scrutinised. Answers to these questions would also throw light on how unnatural Partho’s death was,” he added.
 
 Asked if he was aware of any stress that De had because of his property issues, his doctor   said, “I had thought it was a private matter. I never broached that topic and he didn’t bring it up himself.” Mitra had been treating De after his discharge from Pavlov till his death.
 
 “He suffered from schizoaffective disorder — a combination of schizophrenia and mood disorder. We were regularly conducting tests for his suicide risk. But that risk was minimal in recent times. He was looking for a job and rebuilding his life. He even had the intention of settling down in the very near future. So, we were dumbfounded with the news of his sudden death. But it’s also true that there could have been psychological and social issues that might have made him take his life. When he was at Pavlov, he had no insight. But once he recovered and gained insight, he became more aware of the darkness around him,” said the doctor.
 
 
