CHENNAI: For a 16-year-old,   has already experienced the   can offer.

 At the   for street and working children in Tondiarpet, Suryaprakash checked his Class X results and informed TOI that he had scored 378 marks. However, the teenager's journey to the three figure score could melt even the coldest of hearts.
 
 It is difficult for Surya to recount the highlights of his life, most of which would seem not out of place in a movie script. He did so to TOI with great difficulty and by swallowing his grief.
 
 Surya doesn't know his biological parents. Orphaned at birth, he was adopted by a childless couple in Theni. When he was nine, his adoptive father passed away after coming down with jaundice. "I was a disciplined child until my father passed away suddenly. Then, it was just me and my mother at home. I roamed around with friends and was up to no good," he said.
 
 Without the breadwinner, the family had to pledge possessions and before long, his adoptive mother took the tough, but illegal, choice of sending him away to work. "A broker took me to a factory in Delhi which was making savouries. I was not to be paid for the work. It was discussed with my mother. I don't know what the arrangement was," he said.
 
 But Surya soon realised that his mother had ended up pledging the well-being of a 11-year-old. "We had to work from 4 am till 10 pm. I found it tough to work this schedule on a daily basis. If we did not wake up at 4, the supervisor would pour hot oil on our bodies. The punishment for a mistake at work was to rub masala on my body, and sometimes even the private parts, and making me stand under the sun," he said.
 
 Naturally, he ran away from the place when they allowed him to venture out of the factory for a rare break. "I did not know how to go back to Theni. I was wandering at the   where another broker picked me up. Using the Hindi I learnt, I agreed a deal with him and he took me to Punjab promising me that they would feed me well. One month later, I ran away from there," he added.
 
 This time, he went back to Theni by begging for money and travelling illegally. "But I got bored of life again. My mother sent me off with a man who owned a wholesale shop in Triplicane. I lifted heavy loads for a living for a few months but I went back to Chennai Central to run away again," Surya said. However, on this occasion, Karunalaya's volunteers spotted him.
 
 Having skipped Classes V, VI and VII, Suryaprakash resumed studies from Class VIII. "Initially, I had my doubts about what staying here (Karunalaya) means for me. Now, I don't have such feelings. I have stability in life," he said.
 
 He aspires to be a police officer one day. "It is what my mother wants too. She was happy when I told her that I scored 378 marks. She gave me her blessings," he signed off.
 
