MUMBAI: Even as the   ( ) sent out a 15-point letter to the members of the Indian Cricket Board on Wednesday morning, underlining that they trust the latter will take a "mature and well-considered decision" on the matter involving the International Cricket Council ( ), 23 members of the Board sent out letters of approval to the office-bearers the same afternoon giving a go-ahead to the notice being sent to the governing body.

 The notice, a copy of which has been accessed by TOI, is not a truculent one, but merely reproduces clause 6.4 of the Members Participation Agreement ( ), a legally binding document between the ICC and its member boards. A copy of the email has been marked to  , the legal head of the ICC.
 
 With   secretary   as signatory, the letter states: "At the meeting of the ICC Board held on April 26, 2017, the contribution costs payable to BCCI has been done away with and structurally all of the governance models as approved in the April 2014 ICC Board have been revised without the prior approval of the BCCI. It is causing material adverse effect on the BCCI and has resulted in material breach of the obligations and warranties of the ICC IBC under the MPA as the very basis of the representations and warranties based on which the MPA was executed stands altered to the prejudice of the BCCI. It is evident that the ICC IBC has breached the clauses 6.4 (a), (c), (d) and (e) affecting the BCCI's interests adversely. The MPA contemplates a curative period to cure breaches under the agreement. "Hence the BCCI puts you on notice for these defaults under clause 6.4 (a), (c), (d) and (e) of the MPA to enable the ICCIBC to reverse its decision of 26th April 2017 within a period of 30 days from receipt of the notice failing which appropriate consequences will follow. "Without prejudice, BCCI reserves all rights available to it under law."
 
 The notice is now waiting to be sent any time between now and May 7, the date of the BCCI's Special General Meeting (SGM).
 
 Vidarbha, Tripura, Delhi and Maharashtra have shown their clear unwillingness to support the idea of sending a notice to the ICC while Uttar Pradesh, Mumbai, Services and the Cricket Club of India ( ) were yet to respond until late evening. The remaining members, including Railways and Universities -two government votes -are in favour of the notice being sent.
 
 Meanwhile, a senior BCCI office-bearer had sought opinion of UK-based commercial law firm Herbert Smith Freehills and the latter have conveyed their stated view that the only option for the BCCI going forward is to invoke the Members Participation Agreement (MPA). The CoA is in the know of the law firm's views on the matter.
 
 TOI had reported on Wednesday about BCCI's decision to consult a UK-based law firm primarily for the reason that the MPA -a legally binding contract between BCCI and the ICC -is registered under the UK laws and can be petitioned for matters of commercial dispute in that country only.
 
 The CoA's communication to the BCCI, meanwhile, raises six crucial points that hasn't been brought out by the court-appointed administrators. They are as follows: A) The detailed response of the UK-based law firm; B) Did ICC respond to the 12-page letter that CoA had written last month?; C) CoA's detailed take on changes being sought in ICC's governance model; D) Why did CoA not include BCCI in talks while negotiating with ICC's member boards?; E) Is COA comfortable with the idea of India's share of revenue being distributed among countries that have financial irregularities to answer for?; F) Is CoA willingly admitting that loss of revenue for BCCI could also lead to loss of revenue for exchequer through foreign exchange and taxes.
 
