CHANDIGARH: As part of his drive against VVIP culture, Punjab Chief Minister   has either withdrawn on pruned the security cover of 170 bigwigs.

 After he ordered removal of red beacons from vehicles of officials and cabinet ministers immediately after his swearing-in on March 16, the CM had sought a security review of more than 2,500 protectees.
 
 In the first list issued on Tuesday , 413 gunmen posted with 170 VVIPs were taken off their duty. The order was issued by ADGP (security) Balbir Bawa in consultation with DGP Suresh Arora and ADGP Dinkar Gupta, who was recently made intelligence wing chief. The intelligence wing prepares a threat perception detail of every protectee in the state.
 
 Adesh Partap Kairon, son-in-law of Parkash Singh Badal, Daljeet Cheema, SAD spokesperson,  , former finance minister, BJP's Anil Joshi, Chunni Lal, Madam Mittal and Surjit Jyani were among 14 former ministers of the previous SAD regime whose security cover was either reduced or totally withdrawn.
 
 Amarinder, however, has not made any changes in the security of Badal, SAD chief Sukhbir and his brother-inlaw  , all of them are either Z-plus or Zclass protectees. Former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal is upset over the pruning of security of former SAD ministers. He said the party was watching the working of the new government and would react only after thoroughly checking its agenda.
 
 Badal was in his assembly constituency Lambi on Wednesday on a thanksgiving visit after his victory in the Punjab elections. Talking to newspersons, the Akali patriarch said, “People or the state cannot benefit with the pruning of the   or removing red beacons from vehicles.The government needs to act for the welfare of the people.“
 
 He was reacting to a query about the steps taken by Amarinder Singh-led Congress government to prune security and doing away with VIP culture in Punjab. He declined to speak further on the issue. Badal said, “We are watching the working of the new government and will react only after thoroughly checking the agenda of the chief minister and his colleagues.“
 
