KARAMSAD: BJP national president Amit   on Sunday launched the fornight-long 4,657 km ‘Gujarat Gaurav (Pride) Yatra’ to mobilise people for 2017 assembly election scheduled in November. He kicked off the  's birthplace Karamsad in central Gujarat. 

 On October 2,   will launch the Saurashtra phase of the Yatra from Gandhiji's birthplace in Porbandar.
 
 On Sunday, through out his speech, Amit Shah attacked national Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi who had recently undertaken a tour of Saurashtra and attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
 
 BJP national president gave Prime Minister Narendra Modi the sole credit for the Gujarat model. “This has now been adopted by the whole country. This is the Gaurav of Gujarat,” Shah said. He further said that under the Congress, the literacy rate in Gujarat was 69%. “But today, it’s 78%,” Shah said. 
 
 He gave other statistics of rise in industrial and agriculture production after the BJP came to power in the state. During Amit Shah’s speech, some Patidar youths started shouting anti-BJP sogans who were later detained by police.
 
 Meanwhile, Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS) leader Dinesh Bambhania threatened to immolate self at chief minister Vijay Rupani's public meeting in Jasdan on Monday in protest against the arrest of Patidar youths during Shah's event at Karamsad.
 
 
 
 
 Replying to Rahul Gandhi’s charge of joblessness under BJP rule, Amit Shah said that Rahul Gandhi hadn’t ask him what the BJP had done for youth. “Under BJP rule, the number of medical colleges has increased. The per capita income under Congress was just Rs 13,665 but today it’s Rs1,41,504,” Shah said.
 
 
 
 
 Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani also attacked Rahul Gandhi in his speeches. “I want to remind Rahul Gandhi that for 40 years, Congress did not gave Bharat Ratna to Sardar Patel,” he said. “But Narendrabhai started building the world's tallest statue of Sardar Patel.” Rupani said, “Congress ruled for 70 years and gave unemployment, poverty, and suffering to farmers. We provided water, fertiliser and everything to farmers.”
 
 
 
 
 Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi reacted to BJP president Amit Shah and CM Vijay Rupani's political tirades and said the Congress, during its rule, gave Gujarat world class institutions like Isro, PRL, IIMA, Nift, NID, IPR, EDI, GIDC, NTPC, GNFC and GSFC. “What has BJP given this state?" Doshi said. He added that instead of providing permanent jobs, the BJP government in the state has exploited people with temporary jobs and fixed salaries. 
 
