JAIPUR: The   (JMRC) has received tenders from four   to review the   (DPR) of   phase-II proposed between   and Sitapura.

 For the 24-km-long corridor, the JMRC short-listed six firms to submit the technical and financial bids. However, only four companies submitted their tenders to review the DPR. 
 
 The appointed firm will update the alignment, technology and various other aspects in the existing DPR. Six months will be given to the new firm to submit the revised DPR. The revision of cost of the project will depend on the recommendations of firm. 
 
 “We have already started examining technical bids and a firm will be appointed soon. The companies participated in the competition are from Korea, US, Spain and Japan,” said a senior JMRC official. 
 
 The estimated cost to review the DPR is Rs 6 crore. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) will provide loan to the firm for the same. 
 
 The JMRC prepared its first DPR in 2012 during the   government's tenure. The then government intended to link phase-II with the Sanganer airport and other important government buildings on the route after they were missed in initial DPR.
 
 Following this, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) submitted its revised DPR in 2014 and proposed an underground Metro station at airport near terminal-2. In the proposal, it was mentioned that the train will run underground till Jawahar Circle after which elevated tracks will be constructed till Sindhi Camp bus stand. The elevated tracks will cross the bus stand and underground corridor will be constructed after that till Panipech via collectorate.
 
 In the 2014 (DPR), the DMRC had proposed 10-km underground and 14-km elevated corridor. This has increased the cost of the project as DMRC estimated nearly Rs 10,000 crore to construct nearly 24-km-long corridor.
 
 Official sources said, the JMRC has proposed to reduce the cost of the project. In recent past, the corporation has made several attempts to construct the Jaipur Metro phase II under public private partnership (PPP), however, despite giving lucrative offers, no company has shown positive response.
 
 
