AHMEDABAD: It has been nine years  , but the trial is not even half way through. Of the 2,800 witnesses cited by the prosecution in various chargesheets in the July 26, 2008 blasts case, only 902 have been examined till date.
 
  The main reason for the delay has been frequent changes of judicial officers in this case apart from a nearly two-year stay by the Supreme Court on the proceedings in the initial stage of the trial.
 
 Interestingly, the prosecution has cited 26 star witnesses on whose statements is based the theory of conspiracy hatched by the Indian Mujahideen (IM) members to carry out serial blasts in Ahmedabad and Surat. However, bombs did not go off in Surat. They are believed to be the only witnesses whose statements connect the 95 accused persons with the offence. Their turn to depose before the special court is yet to come. “There are around 2,800 witnesses, but we may drop some of them and examine nearly 2,000 witnesses,” said one of the special prosecutors in this case, Sudhir Brahmbhatt.
 
 The prolonged trial has been taking a toll on the proceedings, as many ‘panch’ witnesses who accompanied investigators and the accused persons during the recreation of the offence at the time of investigation, refused to identify the accused persons. They cited visible change in their appearance after so many years. Before this happened, the prosecution — unsuccessfully — requested the court to allow the witnesses to identify the accused persons from their photographs taken during arrest.
 
 On Tuesday, an FSL official, B K Mistry, was grilled by the defence lawyers about his two different reports on a number plate fixed on the vehicle carrying a bomb that exploded at the Civil Hospital, killing 37 persons.
 
 At present, 73 accused persons of the 78 arrested have been put on the trial. The court is conducting the trial through the videoconferencing facility. The accused attend the proceedings from various prisons in Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, and Delhi apart from the Sabarmati central jail. The objection raised to shifting 10 accused persons including Safdar Nagori and Amil Parvez to an MP jail is being heard by the Gujarat high court.
 
 None of the accused arrested since August 16, 2008, has been released on bail by any court.
 
