PUNE: Citizens of Aundh, Baner, Balewadi and Pashan areas don’t want   in their areas.

 A citizens’ group has written to municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar saying that they were against concreting of roads in their area as part of the   initiative.
 
 Addressed to civic chief Kunal Kumar, the letter urges the civic body to prepare a master plan for groundwater augmentation across the city, besides setting up a groundwater management cell headed by the additional municipal commissioner to work on it.
 
 A letter, signed by civic activist Vaishali Patkar, convener of ABBP Vikas Manch, was received by the office of the civic chief on Monday. “The end- to-end concreting increases the surface runoff and its velocity, not allowing the rainwater to percolate. We need roads to be given proper slopes and trenches/ galleries all along. The road side shoulders too should be made with permeable pavement blocks/ recharge pits or shaft which will allow for absorption and percolation of rainwater,” she said. 
 
 The activists urged the civic body to ensure groundwater recharge structures on all roads, public land and amenity spaces. Permissions for building residential and big commercial complexes should also be granted only if the internal roads are made of permeable material, the activists have stated in the letter. 
 
 Such groundwater recharge structures have been proposed on Jangli Maharaj Road. Activists wanted the inclusion of similar structures in the Smart City plan.
 
 The ABBP Vikas Manch includes members of Aundh Vikas Mandal, Baner Pashan Link Road Vikas Samitee, Anand Park Residents Association, West Aundh Welfare Association and Baner-Balewadi Residents’ Association.
 
 A meeting has been convened at the mayor’s office on April 6 where members of the roads and water department of the civic body are likely to be present along with the activists and experts on groundwater augmentation. 
 
 Meanwhile, road concreting has already started in a big way in several parts of the city after the civic election. The road leading to Aranyeshwar temple which was in a perfectly good condition has been dug up for concreting. 
 
 Small lanes in Laxminagar area and Sahakarnagar have suffered the same fate. The road opposite   that was concreted a few months ago has been dug up again for relaying.
 
 “The road department has not given the go-ahead to any new concreting work in recent time. The works, which are underway right now, were approved last year by the previous civic body,” Rajendra Raut, head of PMC’s road department, told TOI.
 
 About BMCC Road, he said the concreting was an extension of the previous work. “Only half the section was repaired last year. Now the other part is being restored,” he said.
 
 Activists have offered their expertise in helping the civic body to opt for permeable materials for constructing roads that will allow groundwater recharge during the monsoon
 
