MADURAI: The Madurai bench of the Madras   held that the trial court’s letter to the district collector to secure the presence of a government servant to be examined as witness in a case pending before it could not be found fault with. 

 Accordingly, it dismissed a petition filed by a woman village administrative officer (VAO) from   in Tirunelveli, seeking to transfer her   from the   in Tirunvelveli to some other court. 
 
  who heard her case said, “In the facts and circumstances of the case, when the defacto complainant, VAO, has been dodging to appear before the trial court, the action taken by the trial judge by writing a letter to the district collector to secure her presence, that, too, in a sensitive case of this nature, cannot be found fault with. Thus, her petition is devoid of merits and thus it is dismissed.”
 
 In the case on hand, the petitioner lodged a complaint before the All Women Police Station in Ambasamudram in 2014, saying that she is a divorcee and a VAO promised to marry her. After having a physical relationship with her, he reneged. Based on the compliant, the police registered a case against him for the offences of cheating and rape and filed charge sheet before the Mahila Court in Tirunelveli. 
 
 The trial court wanted to examine her, for which it issued summons on August 4 last year. As she did not turn up, it then issued ‘witness warrant’. But, the police were unable to execute it. Subsequently, the trial court wrote a letter to the Tirunelveli district collector. 
 
 It prompted her to file a case before the high court bench seeking to transfer her case as she had been hospitalized and was unable to appear before court. The trial court issued a warrant against her. 
 
 After hearing concern sides and perusing documents, the judge passed an order dismissing her case. 
 
 The judge said that the trial judge had issued ‘witness warrants’ against four people for failure of appearance. It was not known what prevented the petitioner from appearing before the court after her discharge from the hospital on a subsequent date and had the warrants recalled. 
 
 The judge also gave direction to the trial judge to allow the accused to stand behind a screen within hearing distance and permit the accused’s counsel to cross-examine her.
 
