CHANDIGARH: The   has asked the  , as well as, the chief election commissioner of India to ensure that drugs are not supplied during the election process.

 A division bench, headed by Justice Surya Kant, has ordered thus in the wake of an application filed by NGO Lawyers for Human Rights International (LHRI) though its representative Navkiran Singh informing the HC about sources of sale of drugs. Application was supported by some media reports highlighting such sources.
 
 The bench has also issued notice to the states of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh asking them to file replies on the issue raised in the application. The court also asked both the states and Chandigarh to set up of a committee for visiting de-addiction centres for tracking down the source of narcotics before submission of a report before the court.
 
 Referring to some media reports, advocate Navkiran informed the court that when the chief judicial magistrate-cum-secretary of district legal services authorities, Panchkula, recently visited the de-addiction centre and psychiatric ward in the general hospital, Sector 6, the inmates of the de-addiction centre disclosed the sources of the narcotic and psychotropic substances being purchased by them.
 
 He said that it is a matter of common knowledge that drugs of all kinds were available in Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula. The applicant suggested that the police of the Tricity should form a joint team to close on the network being operated by the drug traffickers in the tri city and the nearby villages.
 
 It would be also essential that NGOs who are interested and are making efforts to contain the menace of the drugs be associated along with the  , so that best efforts can be made in this regard and the information which can be obtained from the de-addiction centres as well as in the inmates of the jails where the NDPS Act crime related accused are being housed, can be passed on the police for breaking the network of the drug mafia.
 
 He sought directions that the states of Punjab, Haryana and UT Chandigarh should also directed to evolve a mechanism for interviewing inmates of government as well as private de- addiction centres, so that the supply chain of the drugs can be broken, besides de-addicting the victims of the drugs. The case would now come up for hearing on February 15 for further hearing.
 
