PUNE: On any given day, the only sound that emanates from the historic   is the high-pitch command of jail officials asking recalcitrant inmates to fall in line. Occasionally, noises from the workshop, where prisoners engage in manual labour, break the death-like stillness of the place.

 But on Friday the tall walls of one of the largest prisons in South Asia reverberated with the sounds of tabla with percussionist   drumming up a crescendo with his magic fingers. The whole feel of the event with prisoners sitting on the ground and applauding his virtuoso performance so moved the maestro that he likened the atmosphere at the prison’s open-air auditorium to that of Sawai Gandharva (Mahotsav), an annual extravaganza for connoisseurs of classical music in Pune.
 
 He even called on the stage Nitin Arole, a prisoner, who sang “Chahunga Main Tujhe”, a Mohammad Rafi classic, and accompanied him on the tabla. Another prisoner drew a rangoli depicting the famous ad campaign “Wah Taj!” with the maestro.
 
 It was Hussain’s first performance in the precincts of a prison. “I have never performed at any prison before. But to be honest, it did not feel like a prison at all. People are working under various programmes. Many freedom fighters, including Mahatma Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru, were incarcerated here. Even during the performance, the audience were applauding at the right moment, and they appeared to be enjoying the performance,” he said.
 
 “The whole feel of the event, with the pandal, people sitting on the ground, and the sense of art and culture….. it almost felt like performing at the Sawai Gandharva music festival,” Hussain told reporters .
 
 The percussionist’s visit was part of Preranapath - a series of inspirational interactions with celebrities that the prison authorities have launched for the inmates in association with the Bhoi Foundation. Noted astrophycist Jayant Narlikar, scientist Raghunath Mashelkar, actor   and singer Shankar Mahadevan have already visited and interacted with the prisoners.
 
 Hussain was at his usual effervescent best, shaking his head vigorously to the sounds of tabla and drumming up a storm with his nimble fingers. His performance was one of three parts. The first rhythmic section was as an invitation for the people to come and listen to his performance. The second part was a description of everyday life on chaotic Indian streets, with Hussain narrating the strokes and the scene to the audience before playing them. The last part was what he called was his devotion to Shiva, the rhythm being an attempt to replicate the sounds from the dumroo and the shankh. Before Hussain took the stage, a woman prison inspector performed a composition by Ustad Amir Hussain Khan.
 
 His interaction with the audience --- nearly 3000 prisoners --- was brief but the table maestro had some words of wisdom for the inmates. “I hope to perform at Balgandharva or at Tilak Smarak Mandir. We will reminisce about this day -- how I performed at the jail for the inmates, and how they are out now. I have no authority to tell you to reform yourselves, but all I can say is that getting back to the outside world is a responsibility you have in your own hands,” Hussain said.
 
