NASHIK: Over 25,000 youths evinced interest in farming at the Krushi Mahotsava that concluded on Sunday evening.

 The event culminated with cultural performances and a formal concluding event chaired by Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil, leader of opposition in Maharashtra state legislative assembly. Patil appealed to the next generation of farmers to take inspiration from their fathers to innovate in the field.
 
 The four-day national exhibition of agriculture research, culture, and literature related to farmers at   showcased modern as well as traditional techniques of agriculture.
 
 The number of youths at the fair was high this year. According to the organizers, over 18,000 college-going youths have shown interest in taking up organic farming as a full-time career.
 
 “It’s encouraging to see youths under 25 years of age enquiring about career options in organic farming,” said Rajendra Thakur, an event coordinator. According to him, more than 1 lakh people from different social strata visited the exhibition.
 
  Agro  , at the event, honoured 25 individuals working for the betterment of local farmers.
 
 “We believe our farmers need latest technologies, along with organic farming to succeed in agriculture. Knowledge regarding fertilizers, pesticides, latest equipments, organic/biotech and latest agriculture technologies was shared by from reputed companies for free,” said chief patron of the event Guru Mauli Annasaheb Morey. On Saturday, 3,000 sarpanch (village heads) and teachers from 2,500 villages assembled to discuss the latest farming trends in villages.
 
 Apart from the stalls on bio-gas, renewable energy, processing industry, agri-marketing, polyhousing and a special set-up made to showcase village life received overwhelming response. “For urban Nashikites, it was a refreshing experience to see glimpses of village life,” said Pranita Vedik, a Mahatmanagar resident. Stalls displaying decorative items made of wood and clay attracted women visitors, while youths enjoyed typical village delicious at the food court at the event.
 
 A Nandgaon villagers’ group had performed Varkari Bhajan on Saturday.
 
