TRICHY: The closure of   following the   resulted in unprecedented crowds at outlets in the city away from the   which were unaffected by the ban. Following the court's ruling, a total 119 shops in Trichy district and 15 in the city limits were shut down. 

 Hundreds of tipplers thronged Tasmac outlets at Annamalai Nagar following closure of three outlets on the Karur bypass road in the late hours on Saturday. Many of them being construction labours, who get their weekly salary on Saturday evening, were a disappointed lot upon knowing the closure of the shops. 
 
 As all the seven bars at Chatram bus stand were shut down as they were along the Karur bypass road, the nearest Tasmac outlets in Annamalai Nagar witnessed heavy traffic on Saturday. The traffic in the area came to a standstill following the heavy inflow of tipplers to the area.
 
 A regular customer at the Tasmac outlet at Chatram bus stand, M Rajesh, car driver from the city, was unaware of the closure until 9pm on Saturday. He rushed to Annamalai Nagar Tasmac outlet. “I saw traffic coming to a standstill, even ambulances were not allowed to pass as impatient crowd were desperately moving towards the outlets to make purchase,” said Rajesh. 
 
 “I somehow managed to catch hold of two beers and a quarter alcohol for the night worth Rs410. I gave Rs500 and before I could get back the change I was already pushed to the road,” he added.
 
 Similar was the scene at the Central bus stand, but what added to woes of the tipplers was the unavailability of cheap alcohol. 
 
 Trichy District Load men Association has welcomed the closure of Tasmac outlets. All the four outlets at Gandhi market is now closed now, which was making 1,500-odd load men addicted. 
 
 G K Ramar, district secretary of the association, said the initiative has virtually freed Gandhi Market from the grip of alcohol but is still sceptical over how long will the liquor outlets remain closed. 
 
 “These outlets were supplying alcohol round the clock making the load men addicts. When we approached the police over illegal sales, they used to reject our complaints stating that they sell only because we purchase. Now, selling and buying both have been stopped,” said Ramar. 
 
 Meanwhile, sources from Tasmac said that closure of the shops is only to uphold the apex court order, but they are yet to decide on the number of shops to be closed as some of them would be relocated to other locations. 
 
