SHIMLA:   scheduled to be held next month would now have 50% reserved seats for women candidates. 17 out of 34 seats would be reserved for women candidates which would be inclusive of three seats for scheduled caste women.

 Compared to 2012 elections, the number of wards have seen an increase from 25 to 34 after the inclusion of Dhalli, Kasumpti and Totu areas in the Himachal municipal corporation. While14 wards have been reserved for women, 14 are open for general category candidates, and six wards have been reserved for scheduled caste category. The reservations have been made along the lines of the Constitution (110th Amendment) Bill, 2009 and Constitution (112th Amendment) Bill, 2009 which talked about reserving half the seats in all rural and urban local bodies for women candidates. The Bill was first introduced in parliament by UPA-II.
 
 The reservation has left many leaders baffled as eight wards which were earlier represented by men have now been reserved for women. The sitting councillors would now have to look for new wards to contest the election. The schedule for election would be announced once the final electoral rolls are published by May 4. Sitting Congress councillors   in 2012 had contested from Nabha ward after his Phagli ward was reserved for scheduled caste male candidate. This time, he has lost Nabha ward too as it has been reserved for scheduled caste women candidate. BJP Councillor Rajni from Krishna Nagar ward too is facing the challenge of looking for some new ward as her ward has been reserved for scheduled caste male. 
 
 With the implementation of   municipal corporation (election) Amendment Rules, 2016, the term of corporation would now be for 10 years. Mayor and deputy mayor would be elected indirectly by the councillors on a rotation basis. According to the new rules, during the first two and half years a councillor from scheduled caste category would be mayor while for the next two and half years a councillor from scheduled tribe category would hold the office. After five years, till the next two and half years a councillor from general category would become the mayor while in the last two and half years a woman councillor would hold the office.
 
 While 16 states have increased their women representation upto 50% in rural local bodies till date, the decision to reserve 50% seats for women in urban local bodies remained unfulfilled.
 
