DHULE: For the impoverished  , it has always been a constant struggle to pull themselves out of the pit.

 So when the   approached them to dig small pits near their huts, they were at their wits end. But when the sarpanch agreed to pay Rs 300 for their efforts, they readily agreed.The money would help them to eke out a living at least for a few days, they thought. Soon, a   came along to build a superstructure made of cement over these pits. Before the villagers could understand anything, the contractor asked them to put their thumb impression on a piece of paper and went away .
 
 Though the villagers now do not know what to do with these structures that have come up overnight at every home, as per the government record, Jalod has already done itself proud by taking a step towards fulfilling Prime Minister  's   in India by October2, 2019.
 
 “First, we were asked to dig small pits in front of our huts.Then the contractor placed a white seat, constructed a brick structure and put cement sheet on top. He said toilets are ready,“ said Sushilabai Bhil.
 
 But the tribal population comprising Pawaras and Bhils in Jalod has not been able to figure out why sarpanch and his contractor have been insisting on constructing toilets.
 
 They are also not aware of Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) and do not know that the government pays Rs 12,000 to every household in rural areas for building toilets.
 
 A close look at the toilets and superstructures in Jalod village reveals that the toilets have been shabbily constructed and that the total expenditure for constructing each structure would not be more than Rs 2,000-Rs 3,000.This would mean a neat profit of Rs 9,000 to Rs 10,000 for the contractor for every toilet built by him. Villagers suspect that sarpanch, too, has received his `share' from the contractor.
 
 Senior officials working with state government's SBM (gramin) admitted that many sarpanchs in rural areas had joined hands with contractors and were constructing sub standard toilets. According to the SBM norms, an individual has to first construct a toilet and then seek governments grant. But “the poor in villages are not able to build toilets by investing their own money and hence sarpanchs and contractors join hands and construct toilets using cheap material. Then they ask villagers to sign bank forms and grab the grant of Rs 12,000. He said as the government grant was deposited in the bank accounts of individuals, many village sarpanchs had started a drive to open bank account of every individual in their respective village. As per the standards accepted world over, the basic components of a pit latrine are the pit, ideally 4-5 metres deep, a cover slab with a hole through which users defecate into the pit and a superstructure, sufficient to ensure privacy and provide protection from the weather.
 
 “Pits dug here are hardly 2-3ft deep and hence these toilets are useless. The superstructure is covered with cement sheets and bricks are put on it so that sheets don't fly away . It is just a superstructure you can see. These toilets will never be used,“ said Mansaram Bhil, a villager.
 
 Jalod sarpanch Anand Bhandari's son Ajay , who shoulders his father's responsibility in his absence, said his fat her had taken a step to construct toilets for villagers because the government wanted all gram panchayats to participate in the campaign. “These are quality constructions and as per the government rules,“ he claimed.
 
 No government babus are ready to speak on record as all of them eye the dashboard on the Centre's water and sanitation website, which ticks every time a toilet is constructed.
 
 “We have a target to achieve. It is no more a demand-driven campaign but it has become supply driven as the government wants numbers in place. The state government is very keen that Maharashtra surpasses other states in construction of toilets,“ said an official requesting anonymity .
 
 Many of the villagers are not even aware of toilets and said that they will never use cement structure for doing `dirty' things.
 
 Jaisabai Dhura wondered why the government wants to make a provision for closed defecation when she and others in the village sleep on empty stomach most days. “The situation is very bad here. We find hard to get any work. We eat once a day and that, too, some rice. We can't afford full meals as we hardly earn. The government must make some provisions for work for us. We are ready to do any hard work. Let us eat stomach full first, then we will think of defecation,“ she signed off.
 
