BENGALURU: Most ATMs in Bengaluru have not been dispensing cash for the past one week. Senior bank officials said it's not mere coincidence but a well thought-out move by the Centre and the RBI ahead of   to be inaugurated by PM   on Friday. The ATMs aren't likely to be replenished with the requisite amount of cash anytime soon.

 “The emphasis will be on cashless transactions after Digi Dhan Vyapar Mela. The number of ATMs will drastically go down in the near future. We used to add at least 300 ATMs a year. Now, that won't be done,“ said Mahabaleswar M S, the newlyappointed MD of Karnataka Bank which has 1,380 ATMs across the country, of which 700 are in Karnataka.
 
 Rajaram R, project manager,  , the agency managing ATMs of Canara Bank and ICICI Bank, said most ATMs managed by his agency have been shut for some days because of cash shortage. “We manage 173 ATMs of Canara Bank in Bengaluru and all of them have been closed. Only a few of ICICI Bank's ATMs are dispensing cash,“ he said, adding that cash supply was 20% of the amount needed and with that only a few kiosks could be maintained.
 
 AGS Transact Technology, that manages 1,000 SBI ATMs and 69 ATMs of the   across Karnataka, last week placed an indent with the currency chest for Rs 40 crore but got only Rs 4.5 crore. “Banks are cash-starved and the currency chests attached to them aren't getting enough cash.We are managing the ATMs with whatever little is available,“ said V Balachandar, senior manager in the firm.
 
 I Siva Nainar, senior GM ( ) of SBM, which recently merged into SBI, said his bank was doing whatever was possible to support the ATM managing agencies and that the amount of cash supplied by the RBI wasn't enough. “We know that the outsourced ATMs need to be supported and we are trying to do it,“ he said.
 
 A senior official of a nationalized bank, meanwhile, said his bank wasn't supplying cash to the ATMs. “At ATMs, customers of other banks can also withdraw money and we don't want to serve them at the cost of our customers,“ said the official.
 
