BHUBANESWAR: The   will soon have a high-end three-star hotel outside the operational area to provide accommodation and other services to passengers, officials, tourists and staff. 

 The   on Friday floated a   (RFP), inviting private parties to submit their proposals according to set norms. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) will provide an acre of land adjacent to the current car parking area of the airport. The private party will construct the hotel at its own cost and maintain it for 30 years, airport sources said.
 
 "After getting the proposals, we will invite tenders. The private party for the project will be selected on the basis of competitive bidding. Whichever party quotes higher revenue to be paid to the airport will be selected," said airport director Suresh Chandra Hota.
 
 AAI sources said the hotel project is part of integrated development on the city side of the airport. The AAI has selected two other airports for the project apart from Bhubaneswar. They are: Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport, Kolkata, and Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport, Amritsar. 
 
 The estimated cost of the Bhubaneswar hotel is Rs 35 crore. It will have 100 rooms, besides a food and beverage outlet that will include a coffee shop and a lounge bar. There will be a conference hall to accommodate 250 persons.
 
 Since the hotel will be located close to the airport area, the construction will be done according to the National Building Code 2016-Bureau of Indian Standards. Infrastructure will be built for security, parking, internal road network, water supply, solid waste management and sewage treatment plant, said the director. 
 
 Official sources said the facility will attract more international carriers to the city. At present, an AirAsia direct flight to Kuala Lumpur flies four days a week. Besides, 29 domestic flights operate from here. "By the end of August, we will have two more domestic flights of AirAsia for Kolkata," said an airport officer.
 
 The hotel will be a boon for businessmen who now have to go inside the city for hotels. During emergencies, too, passengers can be accommodated in the airport hotel. 
 
