PATNA: Thursday’s fire in a moving bus in   in which eight passengers were   has raised   over violation of   and regulation by   Patna district administration officials, who visited the Mithapur bus stand on Friday, found majority of private buses violating the safety norms, putting the lives of passengers at risk.

 A major violation that has come to light is that most of the private bus operators have not installed fire extinguishers. Emergency doors in most of the buses were either found locked or tied with rope.
 
 Asked about fire safety, a ‘khalasi’ (helper) of Baba Rath, the private bus operator whose one of the buses caught fire in Nalanda district on Thursday killing eight passengers, said, “I have no idea about fire extinguishers. As far as emergency door is concerned, we keep it locked as there is no need to open such doors.”
 
 Kanhaiya Kumar, driver of a private bus operated by Satnam Rath, who has been driving the bus between Patna and Ara for a couple of years, said he was never trained to tackle emergency situations. “We are illiterate people who don’t know much about safety measures. It is the responsibility of the bus operator and the administration to train us. We should not be solely blamed for such incidents,” he added.
 
 Passengers, on the other hand, have no other option but to travel in these buses risking their lives. “We are helpless. We board private buses due to easy accessibility. Fire extinguishers should be installed in all buses,” said Md Nasim Khan, who boarded a Katihar-bound bus at Mithapur bus stand on Friday.
 
 It is also seen that many bus operators have installed seats to accommodate more passengers in front of the emergency exit gates. The emergency gates are rendered useless. Manohar Singh, another passenger, said, “Even if the passengers want to exit in case of any emergency, it is impossible to escape as emergency doors are kept lock in most of the buses.”
 
 Patna district magistrate Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said mechanics should properly check the buses before allowing them leave the depot. “The administration will conduct surprise check on private buses to ensure that they follow safety rule. Buses not equipped with safety equipment like fire extinguishers will lose their permits. We do not want a repeat of Nalanda-like fire incident in future,” the DM added. 
 
 
