The spot at   staton where the expansion will be carried out
Strip of land which divides the Central Railway and   parts of Dadar station will be used to lay the two new platforms.
 
 Dadar (central), one of  , will soon have  , bringing huge relief to nearly 2.7 lakh commuters who board and   here every day.
 
 A strip of land which divides the Central and Western parts of Dadar station will be used to lay the two new platforms, one of which will be dedicated to fast trains originating here.
 
 The land is currently dotted with 30 low-rise structures housing Central Railway and Western Railway offices. Seventeen of these structures belong to the Central Railway, while the rest are with the Western Railway. The offices in the 17 Central Railway buildings will be moved to a new multi-storeyed structure and the Western Railway has been asked to make its own arrangements.
 
 Dadar (central) handles 750 local trains a day, including around 30 trains that originate here and an equal number that terminate their journeys. In addition, 90 long-distance trains stop here, including seven trains that start their journeys here and an equal number that terminate here.
 
 The tender for the multi-storied building that will house all Central Railway offices removed from the narrow strip of land was awarded in May 2016. While the relocation will cost Central Railway Rs 28 crore, the construction of new platforms will set it back by Rs 10 crore.
 
 While the station currently has six local platforms and two for long-distance trains, the new platforms will take the total number to 10. During the construction of the two new platforms, some of the existing lines will be loved, leading to the widening of platform no. 1, which is currently the narrowest here.
 
 Mumbai Mirror in its February 4 edition had reported how a narrow strip of platform no. 1 next to where the foot overbridge lands had become a death trap. Three commuters lost their lives in the past one year while trying to board moving trains from this part of the platform.
 
 Divisional Railway Manager, Central Railway, Ravinder Goyal said construction work for the two new platforms has already been approved.
 
 The widened platform no. 1, which may be assigned a new number after the changes, will also handle fast trains in its new avatar. The current platform no. 1handles close to 240 slow local services.
 
 The new platform no. 1 will have direct access from the west side. A foot overbridge, which under-construction, will connect all Dadar (central) platforms to Tilak Bridge.
 
 
