COIMBATORE: Inadequate water and toilet facilities have emanated strong criticism from athletes who are in the city to participate in the   meet at the   in Coimbatore city. 

 The stadium has only 14 toilets for men, which were using by 1,726 athletes and five toilets for women which were used by 911 women athletes. Already, the authorities of the stadium has sent a detail report to its higher official, requesting them not to allow the organisers to conduct the athletic meet at Nehru Stadium as there are no facility in place for a large-scale event.
 
 According to sources, the stadium has a synthetic turf for athletes, which was laid seven years ago. Now, the turf is damaged and unusable. “We have to lay a new one, which is cost around Rs 5 to 6 crores. The stadium should have 50 toilets for men and women separately. Since there is no sufficient water, the officials had to bring drinking water for students staying at sports hostel. Hence, the organisers were asked to arrange drinking water at the stadium for the athletes,” an officer said.
 
 The stadium has four floodlights, which are not used by the stadium authorities. “We were using it occasionally. We paid Rs 1 lakh as electricity bill as we used it for a month. Though, the Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu (SDAT) had instructed the stadium authorities, to allow the event organisers to use the lights, the latter have to use generators for the four floodlights. If they are used for three hours, then the organisers have to pay Rs 30,000 for diesel,” a source said.
 
 Due to cost cutting, the floodlights were not used when the javelin throw event happened around 7pm on Thursday. The event organisers had to use their torch lights on their mobile phones to measure the distance. Also, the lights were not used for 4x 100 metre relay. 
 
 However, the organisers from the  , Chennai managed to get SDAT’s approval and has been conducting the event at Nehru Stadium, Coimbatore. 
 
 Speaking about the issue, S Sundarrajan, secretary, Anna University Sports Board, Chennai said he had approached the corporation officials and the drinking water issues were resolved on Friday. “The athletes have to be in the stadium at 6 am to participate in their respective events. If we had conducted the event at Chennai, the participants could not have reached the stadium on time. The participant can approach us anytime to resolve their issues, if any,” he said.
 
 
