Prayers, food and lots of selfies is how the   began on Saturday.

 A buzz of religious fervour and zeal engulfed the   Shrine on   as over 1.5 lakh devotees reached the venue early in the morning. 
 
 The flow of devotees will continue all through Sunday, before the feast concludes.
 
 The first English mass for the day was held at the playground of   around 6am. The venue was jam packed with devotees for the mass. The second mass of the day, was held after an hour in Marathi. Subsequent masses were held after 11am, for which a major rush continued. 
 
 “From the opening of this shrine in 1970, the number of devotees has grown to a great proportion. The Infant Jesus Shrine attracts an ever increasing number of devotees across all faiths. So, we were prepared to welcome more number of devotees each year. The shrine has entered into its 48th year and the anticipation is already building for its Golden Jubilee celebrations,” said Father Trevor Miranda SJ, Chaplain of the Church.
 
 While the highest numbers of visitors were from Mumbai and adjacent urban areas, devotees came down from Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and other parts of Maharashtra for the feast. The crowd witnessed a murmur of local languages like Bengali, Tamil, Marathi, Konkani and Hindi.
 
 Among the varied crowd, there is also a biker group that loves to attend the feast every year. Jordan Rumao, Cyril Almeida and their group of 10 bikers reached Nashik on Saturday afternoon on their two-wheelers. “This is the third consecutive year of the bike expedition and we enjoy it a lot. Our team also has girls,” Rumao said.
 
 Meanwhile, Sophia Ferns and her family drove down from Mulund in a mini bus. “This is the only shrine of infant Jesus in Maharashtra. This year, the theme of the feast is the Joy of Family life, so have we made it a point to come together and offer prayers,” Sophia said.
 
 To keep up the idea of togetherness, many have started innovative moves to bring everyone of all faiths together. Sagaya Mary, a devotee from Mumbai arranged a tour of the Infant Jesus Church and Shirdi on Saturday. “We believe in all religions and there are many Christians who believe in Saibaba. So, we have arranged a tour for such devotees for the first time, this year. The response is quite encouraging. We will be in Shirdi tomorrow and head back to Mumbai by Sunday evening,” Sagaya said.
 
 As part of the celebrations, the shrine is also hosting a grand fair with hundreds of amusement stalls and food courts to keep the visitors wanting for more.
 
