DEDIAPADA (NARMADA): Setting the tone for the   in Gujarat, Congress national vice resident Rahul Gandhi took on Prime Minister   saying that his government had completely ignored the plight of poor, farmers and tribals. 

 Addressing a rally in tribal heartland of   district on Monday, Gandhi took a dig at Modi's ' ' speeches and said that the PM only believed in making people listen to him rather than giving their problems a hearing.
 
 "Congress would not tell people its 'mann ki baat', but would rather listen to the 'mann ki baat' of people. We will give a voice to the tribals, farmers, poor and labours of the state," Gandhi said, adding that his party will fight the upcoming elections with all its might to defeat the BJP, 
 
 "The Congress government will not be one person's government but everyone's," he said. Gandhi was at his sarcastic best when he mocked Modi for his demonetization decision saying that the PM had invalidated the Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes as it was his "mood" to do so. He said Modi only wanted to show people the kind of power he carries and display his might by making everyone stand in the queue.
 
 The Congress vice president also sought to puncture Modi's claims of jobs for youths saying that only one lakh had got employment last year as against the tall claims of two crore. "The country is seeing the highest unemployment. He does only marketing and gives speeches," Gandhi said.
 
 Gandhi said that the people in Gujarat are angry in their hearts. "They believed in Modi. But the fact is that he only used the strength of Gujarat for his advantage and did not give anything back to the state. We do not make big promises and our marketing is not good, but we do work," he added.
 
 Gandhi also slammed Modi for being close to some industrial houses. "In Vibrant Gujarat, nobody but 10-15 persons are gaining. The first right on the water, jungles and land is yours and not that of these 10-15 people," Gandhi said. He claimed that the Congress ruled states were prompt in giving rights of forest land to tribals, but that was not the case in Gujarat when Modi was the CM.
 
 
