Sawan Bahekar (32) is a postgraduate in pharmacy and could have done well for himself by taking up a business or a job. But he chose to be a   defender and is working for conservation since 2002. A honorary wildlife warden of Gondia, Bahekar recently bagged the  .

 
 In 2013-14, he won Maharashtra Youth Icon award. Bahekar is also member of the district biodiversity committee and tourism committee and runs an   called Sustaining Environment & Wildlife Assemblage (SEWA). He has been instrumental in providing assistance to the   in wildlife crime investigations and to help gather intelligence on criminal networks. 
 
 Excerpts from an interview with him...
 
 
 A. My team and I helped detect around 60 cases of which 17 were major ones. One of our biggest exposé was of a Baheliya gang from Katni operating in Navegaon-Nagzira area in 2013-14. These gangs target tigers in the Nagzira-Kanha corridor. Another major exposé was last year when a gang poaching herbivores was caught red-handed from Chorkhamara outside Nagzira.
 
 
 A. The department works with us on cases only where it feels comfortable. Also, there is no transparency. In Chorkhamara case, my name was revealed by a forest employee which led to poachers issuing life threats to me. Many times, information on cases registered on our tip-offs is not shared.
 
 
 A. I have studied 8 tiger dispersals in the last 4 years. We analyzed dispersal of some tigers from Navegaon Nagzira Tiger   landscape to Pench, Kanha and Umred-Karhandla. It revealed a series of facts regarding movement pattern of tigers using railway underpasses, four-lane highways, farmlands where the forest is heavily fragmented etc.
 
 
 A. Tigers always prefer to travel through forest patches using forest paths and nullahs but movement varies during different seasons. In monsoon, territories and movements are elongated as compared to winter to summer. In Central India, tiger dispersals are mostly observed between post-monsoon and winter period. Corridor crop pattern and practices play an important role.
 
 
 A. The inputs, if implemented, can help control poaching and in taking mitigation measures. These inputs will help corrective measures for wildlife habitat management and curbing man-animal conflict.
 
 
 A. Sarus cranes, the tallest flying bird in the world, is located only in Gondia in the entire state. The bird, which was declared extinct from the state in 2003-04, led us to understand threats to the bird. I first identified actual nests in our area and later sensitized locals, farmers and people concerned about them. This included several mass awareness campaigns in villages near sarus habitats. The major threat to the birds was use of pesticides by farmers. Collective action has led to increasing their numbers from a dismal 2 in 2004 to 35-40 in 2016. Money cannot save sarus, only public and local communities can. 
 
 
 A. The department works with several NGOs when it comes to sarus cranes. It treats everyone at the same level, irrespective of experience in monitoring. Hence, it becomes difficult for the department to prioritize specific suggestions when it comes to decision-making.
 
 
 A. Poaching and   are the two most severe threats to wildlife. I have encountered live electric wires stretched over several kilometres around NNTR. Giving resorts and guesthouses in core of Nagzira buffer status is a big blunder. Another threat to biodiversity is hazardous weed known as ‘mahador’. This species covers 24% area of Nagzira and part of New-Nagzira. Besides, there are more invasive species like ‘ghaneri’, ‘raan tulas’, ‘pivali katekoranti’ and ‘murad’. Some 180 villages are putting huge biotic and poaching pressure on NNTR landscape.
 
 
