ABU DHABI:   tasted a slice of history when he became the first Emirati cyclist to be part of a Union Cycliste Internationale (UCI) WorldTour team, when a revamped UAE Team Emirates was unveiled ahead of the 2017  . 

 In the months leading up to the event, Mirza had everything going his way - he became the first cyclist from the country to have participated at the  , led Dubai's   in the previous edition of the Abu Dhabi tour and finished a commendable 13th at the Dubai Tour last month. Understandably, life couldn't have gotten any better for him.
 
 But then, out of the blue, came a jolt that has left Mirza, the host nation's big hope, unable to participate in the Tour.
 
 Mirza was the last rider to come aboard the UAE Team Emirates' franchise, and because of that he was unable to be enrolled on time for the 'Biological Passport Program' of the 2017 Abu Dhabi Tour, which has become mandatory for every athlete falling under a UCI World Tour race because of the board's stern approach dope testing.
 
 "The Biological Passport Program is a collection of blood samples which gives the cyclist a profile of their parameters of blood and so on. The rider needs to be enrolled under the BPP at least six weeks prior to a World Tour event. Now since Mirza joined us late - in the early part of January - we couldn't get him registered because the Abu Dhabi Tour was less than six weeks away," UAE Emirates' Media Manager   tells TOI Sports. 
 
 Mirza's disappointment is palpable. After years making his way up the cycling ladder and having finally found a home at cycling's highest order, he is gutted even though this is not the first time he has hit a roadblock. Three months prior to the Rio Olympics, Mirza was involved in a freak accident where he fell off a bike and broke bones in his legs and shoulders. Four taxing surgeries and a considerable amount of rest later, he was in Rio. That he knows a thing or two about not giving up is an understatement. 
 
 "We can't go beyond the rules, so I cannot really help it. Obviously I am disappointed at missing out. I was on the starting list but since my registration did not fall inside the six-week bracket, I've lost my chance. It's extremely sad," Mirza tells TOI Sports. 
 
 "It is a setback but it won't have any bearing on my future preparations. I had started preparing for this event the moment I was chosen for this team. Though I was slightly under more pressure, I felt just that much responsible at the same time since I was part of our very own team representing the UAE. My next World Tour race, the Volta a Catalunya begins March 20, and I know I simply have to get those tests done. And I will get them done."
 
 Mirza was very keen on racing in Abu Dhabi, having witnessed at close range the impact that the arrival of professional cycling in the UAE is having on participation and an "active lifestyle".
 
 "The Dubai and Abu Dhabi Tours have done a great job in giving a profile to this sport, and now I'm sure that this new team can take cycling to the next level in the UAE and inspire many more people to take to two wheels in the next few years," he says. 
 
 Indeed, it was an ideal scenario to improve for Mirza, who has already brought the UAE a host of laurels overs. In 2014, he became the first Emirati cyclist to secure an individual sponsorship deal with Giant, the world's largest bicycle manufacturer. The following year, he put up a stellar performance in the Tour of Zubarah in Qatar, an event that saw participation from the best riders in the world. There, Mirza won both the general and points classification jerseys. In 2015, he also won a silver medal in the road race at the Asian Cycling Championships that paved way for his qualification for the 2016 Olympics.
 
 Despite all that, it is the Dubai Tour finish that he cherishes the most.
 
 "I think I would rate it right up there. I was confident since I was riding well. I think the UCI has done a wonderful job in providing young riders an opportunity and I wish to make the most of it. This is just not a chance for me but also for other Emirati riders. Hopefully I am able to a meaningful example that will push the other riders for excellence," Mirza says.
 
 As a youngster, having formed an inclination towards a bicycle he once spotted in his neighborhood, Mirza pleaded with his parents to allow him to gout for a ride since they were too afraid to send out their younger son on the "dangerous roads of the UAE". So he would follow his elder brother, Badr. His passion for football was a close second, but for Mirza, "a spot where you can ride around" appeared so much more fun.
 
 "I used to live in the east of UAE. From there I moved to Dubai where I rode for the Doha team for four years before joining the Al Nasr Pro Cycling Team in Dubai. When I look back at it, it's been a long time coming. But then again I believe that's the reason I am where I am at the moment. It's been a step-by-step and progressive movement for me," he says.
 
 Mirza is thankful to the   for providing him unparalleled support, though he still finds himself unable to pursue the sport he loves owing to his employment with the Ministry of Interior at the Abu Dhabi airport. 
 
 "Well that's the way it is. Rules and rules and you can't bend them, but at the same time, this gives me time to spend with my family and be with my two-year-old kid," he says. "Such breaks never hurt. For example, even though I'm not racing right now, spending time with the guys has been fun. Most of them are Italians and they're making me learn the language too. And just so you know, I also know Hindi 'thora thora'". 
 
 
 
 
