LUDHIANA: Finding merit in the complaint by  , in a cheque dishonour case, a local Court has convicted director of a   based company in eight cheque bounce cases and sentenced him to undergo two years rigorous imprisonment under Negotiable Instruments Act. 

 The court of Judicial Magistrate   while giving the sentence also directed M/s Atma Tubes Product Limited Dera Bassi in Patiala to pay Rs. one crore each as compensation to the complainent in each of the cheque bounce case.
 
 The court in its detailed order said , “It would not be advisable to resort to probation in such type of economic offences which not only cause miseries to an individual drawee but also shake the entire economic fabric of the nation. People will lose faith in economic transactions through cheques”. 
 
 The complainant said that the accused had approached the complainant company while representing himself as a potential buyer of C.R. Strips and claimed that they would require huge quantity of C.R. Strips. The accused agreed that they would make the payment of each supply to the complainant company within a period of 15 days from the date of the receipt of the goods of that supply. 
 
 The complainant company did not doubt the integrity of the accused and started supplying C.R. Strips through different bills on credit to the accused. However, the accused did not stick to the promise and did not make the payment of each supply within the agreed period, the complainant alleged. 
 
 As huge amount was due, the complainant company approached the accused several times with a request to adjust the account and to make the payment of the entire due amount but all the times, the accused postponed the matter on one pretext or the other. 
 
 However, on insistence of the complainant company to discharge their legal liability towards the complainant, accused issued eight cheques all dated March 24, 2005 for rupees one crore each. When the complainant company presented the said cheques with their bank in Ludhiana for encashment, to the utter surprise of the complainant company, the said cheques were dishonored by the bank of the accused with the remarks “Funds Insufficient as well as Account Blocked by  , ESI Chandigarh”, the complainant alleged.
 
 The counsel for the complainant maintained that the accused were not having sufficient funds for the encashment of the cheques and cheated the complainant company. It added that the complainant company served a legal notice on September 30, 2005 to the accused. But instead of making the payment of the cheques amount the accused sent a false and frivolous reply to that notice.
 
 On the other hand the counsel for accused contended that the accused have been implicated in the frivolous complaint as there was no legal liability of the complainant against the accused and his company. “The complainant company being bigger company has misutilized the cheques in question which were given to them as security for showing to their auditors. The accused also claimed that the amount alleged by the complainant outstanding towards the accused and his company is fabricated and has been exaggerated,” the counsel argued. 
 
 The court however after considering averments from both the sides maintained that the it would be misconceived to hold that the accused has no liability towards the complainant. 
 
 While granting a RI of 2 years to the director of the firm, the court also directed that the accused would pay a compensation of Rs one crore to the complainant, who can recover entire amount either from accused or from their personal properties under law.
 
