SHILLONG: Union minister for textiles   on Monday inaugurated the first-ever apparel and garment making centre in the state in the presence of Union MoS for home   and chief minister   near Ampati in  . 

 A host of other dignitaries and officials from both the state government and the Centre were also present. 
 
 The sprawling centre, covering an area of 45,000 square feet, was set up under the North East Region Textiles Promotion Scheme (NERTPS) at Hatisil near Ampati at an approximate cost of Rs 14.26 crore. 
 
 "There are 105 sewing machines each in the first two units and 70 in the third unit of the centre. The foundation of this centre was laid in 2015 by the chief minister in the presence of the then Union MoS for textiles, Santosh Kumar Gangwar. Its construction was completed in less than two years," an official release read.
 
 Dedicating the centre to the people of Ampati and the state as a whole, Irani said this project is a testimony to the convergence of efforts from both the Centre and the state. 
 
 She said the Union ministry of textiles was implementing projects worth Rs 70 crore in the sericulture and weaving sector for   alone. At present, out of Rs 53 crore, close to Rs 32 crore has already been sanctioned for the state to promote handlooms. 
 
 Speaking on the occasion, chief minister Mukul Sangma expressed his gratitude to the people for creating a conducive atmosphere. He said the would grow to become the most sought-after export unit in the state.
 
 He added that the Centre should take advantage of the international market in neighbouring Bangladesh and forge business partnerships with the investors in Bangladesh. He urged the Centre to provide modern technology to the weavers of the state.
 
 Union minister of state for home Kiren Rijiju said the Centre has given special focus to Meghalaya, particularly the Garo Hills, in creating job-oriented programmes. He added that there was a need to create employment opportunities for harnessing the potential of various sectors.
 
 
