NEW DELHI: The high court wants third party   of all Delhi government hospitals, starting with Janakpuri Super Speciality and   hospitals.

 In a ruling of far reaching importance,   asked the Centre, through the cabinet secretary to examine if an expert   can be set up to carry out the audit exercise.
 
 “In these circumstances and having regard to the glaring deficiencies in the healthcare system in the two hospitals and related health care centres (both being super specialty hospitals) established at great public expense, with substantial annual grants — a large part of which appears to be unutilised — this court is of the opinion that the Government of NCT should take urgent steps to have both the hospitals and other such public medical institutions which are under its control (and are independently governed through governing councils, etc.), audited through a third party agency. The agency will point out the deficiencies and shortcomings and suggest remedial measures to ensure availability of clinical, diagnostic and full panoply of medical services that each hospital was designed to cater to,” a bench of Justices S Ravindra Bhat and S P Garg noted in the order.
 
 The court highlighted that “great public expense” went into building both the hospitals and in procuring medical infrastructure in the form of equipment and highly specialised diagnostic machines.
 
 Yet, it pointed out that “acute shortage of staff in both hospitals has led to a woeful situation of inadequacy of services to the general public who deserve it and for whom there is a crying need for such services. This has translated into both severe lack of access to cheap or free medical aid to the general public and scarcity of such public resources, though physical infrastructure has been created.”
 
 The Delhi government through standing counsel   had informed the court about the number of vacancies, number of beds and extent of usage of medical equipments. HC took note of the “dismal picture” and observed that “intuitively one can infer the OPD footfalls in both the institutions are less than half of the capacity available. In case of bed utilisation, situation is far worse.”
 
 The court reminded both AAP government and the Centre that health care and right to wellness are an intrinsic and important component of the right to life. “The directive principle of state policy contained in Article 47 considers it the primary duty of the state to improve public health, securing of justice, humane condition of works, as well as extension of sickness, old age, disablement and maternity benefits,” it added.
 
 HC had summoned the directors of Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital and Janakpuri Super Speciality Hospital to appear and explain their failure to operate at full potential. 
 
