BHOPAL: In a major decision,   is considering to disband the  , constituted under MP Land Revenue Code, 1959, as the highest court of appeal and revision in revenue cases. State government has authorized the newly formed   and School of Good Governance to study, assess and recommend appropriate action on abolishing the board. 

 Sources in the revenue department said chief minister   had questioned about the continuation of Revenue Board when the government is planning to form a good governance school and land reforms commission. It was also stated that decisions of the board had left the government embarrassed. If state cabinet approves to disband the Board, it will be tabled in the state assembly for further action, said sources.
 
 "There were some issues with the Revenue Board which were to be addressed and required amendment. We are reviewing the working of the board and asked the Land Reforms Commission for a detailed report," said state revenue minister Umashankar Gupta. 
 
 "We have been asked by the state government to conduct a study, survey and assess the importance of Revenue Board and file a report on possible changes in laws, rules and structure. We are not working on scrapping the board," chairman, Land Reforms Commission, I S Dani told TOI.
 
 State Land Reforms Commission has been constituted in 2015 to recommend alteration in rules to streamline the land management in the state. The commission also works on making the entire set up citizen friendly and to work in the interest of poor and deprived sections, including farmers besides reviewing issues related to management of government and private lands of urban and rural areas.
 
 "We have recently submitted recommendations regarding compilation of database related to Boodhana (on the lines of Vinoba's  ) to ensure proper utilisation of undistributed land and land holders'', said Dani.
 
 Officials of the revenue department said that the Revenue Board was constituted an extraordinary gazette notification on November 1, 1956 which exercised jurisdiction under various regional acts. 
 
 By notification no 12-1-A, the government delegated appellate and revisional powers of assistant chief secretary to the newly constituted Board of Revenue. In 2011, the state government by an amendment in the MPLRC of 1959 has vested all revisional powers in the Board of Revenue'', said officials. 
 
