JODHPUR: High resolution sensors and   are all chalked out to give company to countless floodlights along the desert terrain of the international border between India and Pakistan in Rajasthan. 

 Border Security Force (BSF) here in Rajasthan Frontier is all geared up for securing the border with a more technology and gadget intense BSF aiming at reducing the dependence on manpower for guarding international border. 
 
 Sharing the aforementioned with The Times of India here, IG of BSF Anil Paliwal said that similar Pilot projects have been taken up in Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir as well. “We have already conveyed the operational requirements of these equipment due to the peculiar weather and terrain here in deserts to the technical experts team in Delhi. 
 
 “This is a part of the prestigious plan to plug all chinks along the Western as well as the Eastern border and tighten the vigil,” said IG Paliwal.
 
 Paliwal further shared as to how early warning systems for surveillance and other gadgets will transform the BSF in Thar desert as a technology Oriented force which would tackle the crunch of manpower plaguing the forces. “I understand from my Punjab experience that the winters accompanied with Fog covers provides a vulnerable intrusion ground for millitants, smugglers and others. So, keeping in mind the same, we have intensified the patrolling and increased the BSF manpower manning the border while increasing the operational actions equipped with night and fog compatible vision devices etc,” said Paliwal.
 
 Paliwal said that work is in progress on a war-footing basis for installing the high-resolution smart sensors, which would be monitored with the help of satellite based signal command system and laser walls along International Border in Rajasthan. It is to be mentioned that the pilot project in Punjab, which got the Best Border Management award for 2016, is also based on Farheen laser wall technology. A similar project as per IG Paliwal shall take off along Indo-Bangladesh border as well. 
 
 The new BSF IG also expressed his thrust on co-ordination with the state and central intelligence agencies as well the forces managing the border in Rajasthan for sharing the intelligence info as well the operational correlations. Acknowledging the lack of required amenities like clean drinking water for its jawans at the forward posts along border in this desert state, Paliwal said in addition to expediting the matter for basic amenities for BSF officials, BSF would also actively contribute towards the Rainwater Harvesting projects in the state. 
 
 
