NEW DELHI: Honest taxpayers will not be targeted as the government gets down to the business of analysing data generated by the   drive and tracks persons and businesses who have suppressed income.

 An official said that changes in procedures relating to the “satisfaction certificate” that   had to prepare after a search were intended to protect   and informants and not to do away or reduce accountability of tax operations.
 
 Earlier, the person or entity under scrutiny was informed about the source of the inquiry against him on appeal. This reduced the efficacy of tax proceedings and exposed the source of information to the wrath of those under scrutiny.
 
 Under the changes effected in the Budget, information regarding the identity of the whistleblower will be given to the court and not to the person subject to a search. “What needs to be argued in court are the facts of the case. The appellant must address the evidence rather than who blew the whistle,” said the official.
 
 The move to give tax officials power of temporary seizure is similarly intended to ensure that an accused does not get the opportunity to dispose of illegally acquired assets.
 
 Earlier, a seizure order often took six months in coming, allowing the concerned person to dispose the asset or even strike a deal with officials.
 
 The government is clear on its move to increase risks and disincentives for tax evasion and take steps to simplify procedures that officials admit can be complicated. “The issue of tax terrorism is often raised as a cover for noncompliance. Demonetisation is expected to increase compliance,” said the official.
 
 The view in government is that action on demonetisation data will unfold over the next two years as the tax department matches deposits with I-T returns or, in many cases, no returns at all.
 
 Responding to the possibility of tax officials embarking on motivated action and harassing those in the tax net or even individuals who have bank deposits to explain, government sources said the legal process could not be subverted.
 
 “Any action will have to stand court scrutiny and the rules and guidelines will be monitored,” the source said.
 
 The tax administration will become less complex after   and the human interface will also gradually reduce, benefiting those who play by the rules. “The discretion of the official machinery will decrease but this will help only those who comply with the laws,” said the official.
 
