GUWAHATI: The key accused in the   in the   (APSC), Rakesh Paul, allegedly threatened an   during a   at the   here on Saturday. 

 Police have already recorded a general diary and are likely to place it before the court shortly.
 
 The incident reportedly took place when a team of state police started quizzing Paul, along with three other arrested civil servants, in a joint integration permitted by a local court here. During interrogation, Paul was made to face the arrested Assam Civil Service (ACS) officials - Bhaskar Jyoti Dev Sarma, Amrit Sarma and Bhaskar Dutta - one by one and then questioned inside the jail campus.
 
 "I'll see you," Paul reportedly threatened investigating officer Subashish Baruah. Alleging that Paul violated the law by threatening the investigating officer, the incident was immediately reported to the local police station. 
 
 Sources alleged that Paul has been reluctant to cooperate in the interrogation. During a previous joint interrogation earlier, Paul reportedly fell sick but was found to be fit in a medical checkup later. Police have sought the court's permission to conduct a narco and polygraph test on Paul to get more information from him. Police said they want to conduct the tests to ascertain the truth of Paul's statements. The special judge's court here will hear the plea on May 20.
 
 This is the second time that an investigating officer in the APSC case has been threatened. Earlier, Surjeet Singh Panesar of Dibrugarh Police received a threat call and SMS from an unidentified person. A probe later revealed that the threat calls were made from somewhere in Meghalaya's West Garo Hills district where Paul used to live during his childhood days, a source said. 
 
 So far, investigation has revealed the names of several Assam Civil Service (ACS) and Assam Police Service (APS) officers who are likely to face questioning for allegedly getting selected by paying hefty cash to Paul and his associates.
 
 Last week, police placed the status report of the investigation before the special court here. 
 
 
