As Goa readies itself for three days of carnival merriment, many amateur Konkani stage artistes all over Goa are busy with something else —  .
 
  An art form unique to Goa, khells comprise three consecutive plays based on social issues or family melodrama. Some have religious significance or a moral message, but whatever the topic, it’s always packed with humour. Unlike commercial tiatrs, often staged in auditoriums or in open-air pandals, khells are staged on open grounds with the audience gathered around the performers. There’s no stage or even curtains. “Previously, the director would blow a whistle to indicate a change of scene,” says Peter de Betalbatim, a director. Today, a drum roll is deemed sufficient.
  
  Unlike tiatrs, which often touch the four-hour mark, khells rarely go past 45 minutes. And even though, like most art forms, khell is evolving — some directors use curtains and stages — most stay true to the original art form.
  
  While khells enjoy enormous popularity around Goa, its origins are a mystery. “Nobody is aware as to the origin of these khells,” says senior tiatrist and researcher Tomazinho Cardozo. “Khells, or zomnivelle khells, are staged on the ground (zomin),” adds Cardozo, a former president of the   (TAG). Initially, and even now, khells comprise three acts but subsequently, it was reduced to two acts being staged with an interval between the two acts. Later, these plays were made into one story, with late   calling this art form ‘non-stop drama’. While zagors were very popular in North Goa, it was the zomnivelle khells in South Goa.”
  
  Cardozo frowns upon the use of keyboards in modern khells. “It does not fit into folk theatre,” he says. “Besides, when khells originated, there were no electronic keyboards. There were also no props. The actors would move around on the ground and describe their exact location through dialogues, exclaiming ‘look at those tall buildings’, we have now reached Mumbai’ to their audience as there are no sets for khells.”
  
  It was the late   who changed khell. Traditionally, khells mostly comprised songs and no script (directors would instruct actors on their roles). “It was Moraes who took the khell onto the stage, adding sets and costume changes to it, resulting in khells being renamed to khell tiatrs,” says William Fernandes, vice-president, TAG.
  
  Over the past few years, efforts have been made to stage khells in N Goa too. “In 2011, two parish priests, Fr Santan Carvalho of Soccoro and Fr   of Morjim assisted me in staging a couple of shows in their parishes in Bardez and Pernem, respectively,” says director Tousif de Navelim.
  
  Xavier Mascarenhas, known in khell circles as Xavier de Maina, also staged his first show at Moira. “To stage a khell for three days of carnival costs approximately 1.5 lakh, which includes the artistes’ and musicians’ fees, costs of lights, sound, transport and refreshments,” he says. “These expenses are usually borne by the carnival committees that hire our troupe. Hence, we do not charge our audience. In fact, the band alone costs 60,000 and this could be brought down to 30,000 if we use the keyboard to replicate the sound of a trumpet. But since the trumpet is a must to provide the originality of the khell, we cannot stage it without a trumpet. Audiences viewing these khells average between 200-250 people, although some of our shows at Vasco drew crowds of 400-500.”
  
  Another khell artiste, Jack de Vasco, says that most directors do not venture to stage their shows in North Goa due to the distance and costs. “The price for a three-member band is 75,000, so there should be at least five shows daily,” he says.
  
  Another khell director, Piedade Sequeira, says that despite profits being minimal, they continue to stage khells to preserve the rich tradition. “Three months ago, I had commenced the planning for the shows with a budget of 1.35 lakh, but now costs have escalated,” he says. “Previously, actors would happily join us irrespective of payment, but now they ask us before the show. Besides providing meals, we also have to pay them a total of 35,000 in addition to the transport expenses of approximately 17,000. We earn approximately 8,000-9,000 per show, and if we are lucky, we get 12,000 for the late evening show. Hiring actors and musicians are some of the difficulties that we face. Sometimes, people cheat us as we don’t take any advance and rely on trust. But that is a risk we bear.”
  
  But it’s not always individuals. Institutions, too, play their part. “In an effort to promote this unique Goan culture, TAG annually organizes the khell tiatr competition,” says TAG president Agostinho Temudo. “In 2016, it was staged in Ponda. This year, it will be held at the TAG premises situated next to Kala Academy in Panaji.”
  
  But financial constraints remain. Khells, now frequently sponsored by politicians, used to be funded by the people. “Earlier, we used to move door-to-door seeking funds to stage khells,” a prominent director told STOI. “There is a growing demand for the art form due to the prizes awarded at these competitions.”
  
  Some directors feel the state should support the art. “When the government spends such a lot of money for the carnival parade, why can it not disburse some for traditional khells?” asks director Seby Oliveira.
