NEW DELHI: The   is looking to clip the wings of the   of  , in a move that may further strain relations between the Centre and the  .

 In the last fortnight, the Union home ministry and lieutenant governor have sought and received legal opinion from a senior law officer on the functioning of the special inquiry committees (SICs) and the department related standing committees (DRSCs).
 
 In his opinion, accessed by TOI, additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain has recommended that these committees be “dismantled”. He stated that the house committees were trying to “usurp” executive or judicial functioning, violating the separation of powers laid down in the Constitution.
 
 He also advised the MHA to instruct the LG to send a message on his own to the Delhi Assembly that two SICs formed on fair price shops and CNG fitness certificates were illegal and unconstitutional.
 
 Some committees have frequently summoned, grilled and questioned senior officials of Delhi government and even the three corporations, arguing that their work and claims needed to be verified on behalf of the people’s representatives.
 
 “It is essential that these DRSCs be dismantled as the same are an abuse of power and have been set up in contravention of the Constitution as well the doctrine of separation of powers,” the opinion by   concludes, advising the LG to amend Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act 1991 to ensure that Delhi assembly or its committees don’t go into “day to day functioning of the government, or conduct inquiries in relation to administrative decisions”.
 
 The opinion on power and legal validity of some of the Delhi assembly committees came earlier this month after the LG sought to know from Jain the “options/remedies” available to him as administrator of the capital in light of some of the recent decisions taken by the assembly panels. Seeking legal clarity, the LG asked Jain if “substantive powers of inquiry, scrutiny and investigation conferred upon the DRSCs are in accordance with law” and whether “their formation violates the doctrine of separation of powers.”
 
 The LG also wanted to understand if DRCSs can be formed on reserved subjects (that is areas exclusively vested in the Lt Governor’s jurisdiction), more so in light of the Delhi high court’s August 2016 ruling which stated that the LG, and not the council of ministers, was ultimately responsible for the governance of Delhi.
 
 In his communication to the ASG, the LG further highlighted that SICs dormant since last year “have been activated again and the chief secretary and other senior officers are being regularly summoned and orders being passed; furthermore officers of LG office have also been summoned.”
 
 In his opinion sent to the LG,   Jain said the “SICs which have been constituted in light of certain alleged irregularities and corruption, are being used for conducting police investigation, a function which cannot be performed by the legislative assembly.”
 
 For instance, the ASG pointed out, the CNG fitness scam is being tried in a court and “the legislature cannot attempt to create a parallel court or take over executive functioning” adding that by means of SICs and the summons, the “assembly is usurping judicial functions to be performed by court of law.”
 
 The law officer was equally clear on the issue of restoring of fair price shop licenses by the LG. He said the LG had the power to act in his own discretion and the assembly has no jurisdiction in such matters that fall outside its ambit.
 
 “Any SIC formed to review the quasi-judicial functions of the LG does not have the jurisdiction over the same and it is clearly against statutory provisions of the Act and Rules,” the ASG stated in his report.
 
 On the seven standing committees, the ASG said these were “indulging in policy making” and trying to encroach upon “core executive functions”. He opined that the committees cannot sit in appeal over decisions of the executive government, and termed them illegal.
 
 “The role of a legislature is to enact laws and not to formulate policies,” the senior lawyer argued, pointing out that despite the Delhi HC verdict “which prohibits council of ministers/legislative assembly from transacting anything in relation to ‘services’ an attempt is now made to do the same thing through DRSCs.”
 
