

 
 
 
 I grew up in an extended joint family in a rural, pastoral setting in Kerala. My father (who worked for the CBI) was often posted in the field, so our mother by default became the primary parent and I must add a strict disciplinarian! Like in many stereotypical south Indian families, I was expected to study engineering. So clearly my Silicon Valley dream has been quite different from my fellow compatriots!
  
 
 
 Hotel management school in Bangalore was my first exposure to a big city and a universe beyond my grandma and mom's kitchen. So cooking suddenly took over my life — it was no longer about being at the business end of hotel management — becoming a manager. I wanted to cook. After cooking stints in the Maldives and in the UK, I got the opportunity to attend the   — the other CIA! My initiation was classical French. So I pretty much spent my twenties cooking traditional French restaurant dishes. And then the opportunity to join Campton Place came up.
  
 
 
 
 California is any chef's dream! The sheer variety and freshness of produce available. I've always believed that a chef is only as good as the ingredients he has. Treat them with the integrity they deserve, and you will have a good dish! Plus the multicultural influences there have made the state synonymous with a cuisine that is fresh, exuberant and all embracing, so it became obvious for me to revisit my south Indian roots and sensibilities. 2008 was not a good year for America — recession had hit, businesses were folding — but we hung on. I mean the only way left was up. Luckily we got some good reviews so…
 
 
 
 
  (Laughs), My food has never been "Indian" Indian. It's meant to be evocative, to remind you of who you are (if you're Indian) or where you've travelled (if you've visited). Spice Pot started out as a fun element referencing the San Francisco fog (dry ice in this case) and that quintessential Indian street food, chaat served in the ubiquitous Indian terracotta pot or matka. But Maine lobster with coconut curry sauce would probably be our signature dish.
  
 
 
 
 I think it's finally coming into its own. Initially, Chinese and then Thai ruled. Today there is a case for regional Indian especially as westerners are no longer intimidated by chilli or spices. The push is towards cuisines or menus that are true to their ethnicity; celebrate produce and freshness.
  
 
 
 True, but it was always looked upon as downmarket and cheap — 20-30 years ago, Indian restaurants were not about being chef-driven. They were opened by immigrants, trying to make a living by selling a taste of home. Today, the industry, not only with Indian food, but other cuisines as well is chef-driven with the chef owning the menu and putting his or her stamp on it. Being an "Indian" chef is no longer a bad thing.
 
 
 
 "Fine casual" as opposed to "fine dining". Excellent food served in an approachable, friendly setting. I would say authentic ethnic cuisines that carry the chef's own tweak or personality.
 
