SHIMLA:   on Thursday said that strict action would be taken against party cadre candidates involved in anti-party activities while remaining within the   party. He said that indiscipline within the party won't be tolerated. “We are capable enough to oust such people out of Congress who try to damage the image of the party and involve themselves in anti-party activities,” he said. 

 Virbhadra said this while addressing a public meeting at Shat in Manikaran valley of Kullu district. Lashing out at the   for halting the development projects sanctioned for the state, he said that he believes that the union health minister J P Nadda was thinking to initiate work on   (AIIMS) in Bilaspur only when BJP will come to power in the state which was a dream far away to be fulfilled. 
 
 He said that the state government has given adequate land for the same as desired by the union health ministry and now the delay was on the part of union ministry for the reason well known to Nadda. He said that BJP was mistaken to form the government in the state, as for next many years they won't be able to return to power. 
 
 He further added that there were five medical colleges as of now in the state. He said that work in building of medical college at Hamirpur would be started as soon as the state government gets forest clearance. He said the state government has done so much in every field, including health, education, welfare and other sectors that BJP was not able to digest it and was criticizing for the sake of criticism because they have no other work and were involved in mudslinging on their opponents. 
 
 Virbhadra also announced construction of a bridge across Parbati river from vegetable sub yard Shat to Pini-Banasha and road from Brehan (Channi-Rawad) to Bijli Mahadev. He announced upgrading of high school shat to GSSS, up-gradation of Government Primary School, Badogi to Middle School, opening of new government primary school at Ganakhla and up-gradation of middle school Kasol to Government High School.
 
 He also assured the people to get the survey conducted for passenger rope-way from Barsheni, Kalra Glacier, Rudra Nag to   and said that the demand for opening bank branch of Kangra cooperative bank at Kasol would be examined. He said that sub-vegetable yard would be expanded in coming years.
 
