Coimbatore: More than a lakh   collected over the years await examination in the bureau. Police officials have been asking the state government to   the fingerprints, for better preservation as well as easier processing. While the manual system takes days together, digitalised fingerprints can be checked in minutes.

 The staff of the fingerprint bureau from Coimbatore city and rural police have collected and stored lakhs of fingerprints in the fingerprint bureau at the office of the commissioner of police and the district police office. “We have classified the fingerprints based on the crimes and used to match the fingerprints. Now it is too difficult to analyse these as each staff member has to check over 50 fingerprints to find out a suspect. Over 25 per cent of cases were detected with the help of fingerprints in the state,” said a fingerprint expert. 
 
 Few years ago, the state crime records bureau (SCRB) announced that it would give fingerprint scanner machines to all police stations in the state, but it has not been done. Meanwhile, the SCRB provided advanced software to all fingerprint bureaux to the city and rural police to store the fingerprints in digital format. 
 
 However, senior police officials are asking the state government to digitalise the fingerprints. “Migrant labourers visit the urban and rural parts of Coimbatore every day to work in industries. We cannot obtain all the peoples’ fingerprints and cannot store them in our system. If the state and Union governments provided the Aadhaar link with fingerprint search, it would help police to crack cases without delay. Aadhaar has the fingerprint storage of people across the country,” said a senior police officer from Coimbatore city.
 
 If the Aadhaar link is provided to the state police, the fingerprint experts will be able to match the fingerprints lifted from the crime scene. “The fingerprint bureau also should be digitalised completely and advanced software installed to match the fingerprints. Manual analysis delays the investigations,” he added.
 
 
