NEW DELHI: Reacting to allegations of corruption levelled against chief minister Arvind   by sacked minister  ,   on Sunday demanded that the CM resign immediately. The party’s Delhi unit chief,  , thanked Mishra for “showing courage to expose Kejriwal” even as he lashed out at the CM. 

 Tiwari, accompanied by other BJP MLAs, met lieutenant governor Anil Baijal in the evening, requesting him to examine the possibility of recommending the dismissal of the Kejriwal government to the President if the CM didn’t resign himself.
 
 “What Kapil Mishra has said is not an allegation, but a statement of a witness. Kejriwal doesn’t have the moral and legal right to continue as chief minister,” Tiwari said.
 
 He said BJP had continuously been raising issues against AAP government and Mishra’s statement had just proved that its stand was correct. Recent municipal election results showed that people of Delhi had already rejected Kejriwal’s politics, he added.
 
 Lauding Mishra for speaking out against “corrupt practices” of AAP and its convener, Tiwari said: “I want to thank Kapil Mishra for showing the courage. He went to Kejriwal and asked him to tell party members about it (Rs 2-crore bribe). He (Mishra) has told everything to   …. While we will write to all investigating agencies, they should take suo moto action to investigate the matter.” 
 
 Hitting out at the chief minister, he said: “Kejriwal has left behind Lalu Prasad when it comes to corruption.”
 
 Party MLAs, meanwhile, demanded a probe by a special investigations team into the charges levelled by Mishra as well as “other corruption cases” against the government. Vijender Gupta, leader of opposition in Delhi Assembly, said the party would meet LG with their demand.
 
 “There should be an investigation into the report highlighting the scam in water-tanker contract, which was intentionally suppressed. Kapil Mishra’s allegations of a bribe being paid to the CM by   should be investigated,” said Gupta. BJP MLAs, who adopted a resolution on Sunday, listed various corruption charges that needed to be looked into. Issues highlighted by the Shunglu panel report also found a mention.
 
 “Administration in Delhi has come to a standstill due to charges of corruption and upheaval within AAP. The grave allegations against the CM, confirmed by a former AAP minister, have led to a further deterioration in the situation. As a result, Delhi government’s credibility in the eyes of people has nosedived,” read a joint statement issued by the BJP MLAs.
 
