HYDERABAD: The new Andhra Pradesh capital, Amaravati, which is being built with nearly 33,000 acres of land from farmers, will be one of the top five cities in the world, said   chief minister   on Tuesday.

 Speaking at the convocation ceremony of the fifth batch of students of the   (IMT), in the city, Naidu said: “Every crisis can be converted into an opportunity . Building a new and greenfield smart city is a rare opportunity. We did not have any land to build the city, which is why we told the farmers that if they give us land, with a 10-year annuity agre ement, they will get back developed land that is worth much more. Amaravati will be one of the top five cities in the world. In ten years time, every household, even the ones located in remote areas of the state, will get access to broadband connectivity at a cheap price.“
 
 Nearly 172 students who completed their post graduate diplomas in management (PGDM), specialising in fields such as marketing, finance, human resource management, analytics, general management and operations were awarded diplomas by the Andhra Pradesh chief minister during the event.
 
 While encouraging students to pursue entrepreneurship, Naidu said: “After IT, the next industrial revolution will be a combination of technology and Internet Of Things. Innovation is nothing but doing certain things in a dif ferent manner. For example, back in 1994, I strongly believed that having a knowledge economy was very important. This led to the formation of Hi-Tec city on a public-private-partnership mo del. Do not stick to routine work at big firms, where there is a lot of red tapism.“
 
 Naidu also pointed to the inflow of universities like the International Institute of Information Technology and Indian School of Business as other results of his efforts to promote information technology in erstwhile Andhra Pradesh. Satish Ailawadi, director, IMT, Hyderabad said: “Placements for the fifth batch of the institute have seen more than 80 companies visiting the campus to recruit students. The placement season witnessed national and international job offers from companies across varied sectors such as analytics, consulting, banking, NBFCs, e-commerce, insurance, bio-technology , credit rating, retail, IT&ITES and market research.“
 
