NEW DELHI: Four days from now, 23   are set to roll down Rajpath. Of these, 17 will be showcasing the unique cultural heritage, festivals, rituals and art forms of the  , while six will be from the central   showing recent landmark initiatives.

 Jammu and Kashmir is trying to woo back tourists for winter sports by showing the snowy peaks of Gulmarg on its float. Ishfaq Ahmed (22), a singer from Baramullah who is the part of the J&K contingent, said that last year was marred with violence, protests and curfews after the death of Burhan Wani. “We sing at weddings, but everything closed down due to the disturbance. People postponed or cancelled marriages. Hopefully, normalcy will return after the snow melts,” he added.
 
 While Maharashtra is celebrating the 160th anniversary of Lokmanya Tilak by depicting the landmarks in his life — from starting the newspaper Kesari, initiating Ganeshotsav and going to Mandalay jail — Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Karnataka, Punjab, Tripura and Tamil Nadu will be showcasing their traditional dance forms.
 
 Haryana will be promoting Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao by lauding achievements of women like astronaut Kalpana Chawla, Olympic medallist Sakshi Malik and paralympic champion Deepa Malik.
 
 Gujarat will be focussing on the art and lifestyle of the Kutch region. Odisha will be showcasing Dol Jatra, West Bengal Sharad Utsav and Assam the Kamakhya temple.
 
 Tableaux of several states like Rajasthan, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh failed to secure a place this year. However, the Union territory of Lakshadweep will be making a comeback after 23 years showcasing the ‘unexplored tourist destination’ comprising 36 islands.
 
 Another first in the   would be a float by National Housing Bank. The float of Khadi India has carefully avoided raking up controversy by avoiding the imageries of both Mahatma Gandhi and PM Narendra Modi. It, instead, has focused on traditional weavers and modern attire made of the hand-woven cloth. The Central Board of Excise and Customs has made its tableau on GST, which it touts as the biggest tax reform since Independence.
 
 
