GURGAON: Ashok Kumar’s family heard about his arrest from their television set. Used to him coming home without fail by 5 pm, they were worried sick when he didn’t get back. “I thought, he works in a bus, accidents happen all the time, could something have happened to him,” says his 70-year-old  . “Phir news se pata chala,” he says.

 The police made no attempt to inform the family, which lives barely 20 minutes away from the school in Ghamroj village. And when he went to meet his son at Bhondsi jail the next day, the father says he was flanked by two policemen in the few minutes they had together. “He saw me, and he just cried. He put his head down, and wept, and didn’t speak a word,” he says. Having spotted an unusual limp in Ashok’s walk, and welts on his arms and legs, he worries that his son is being pressured into incriminating himself. “He has just passed Class V, he can’t even speak proper Hindi, he is so simple,” says a cousin.
 
 Ashok’s father wanted to meet the family of the murdered child, but was warned that “abhi public bhadki hui hai” (the public is incensed). There are 10 to 15 other men in the village who work as drivers and conductors in Ryan International and other nearby schools, but no one has come to the support of the family. 
 
 By all accounts, Ashok was a quiet man with a strong sense of responsibility towards his relatives. He married late, waiting to see his four sisters married. He used to say, “I’m lucky to have found such a pretty wife,” says one of his sisters, who is visiting. Ashok’s wife is more than a decade younger. Now, she has collapsed upon hearing the news -- she lies in bed, refusing to eat or drink, and barely talking. “‘If I don’t see your face, my heart isn’t happy,’ he used to say. And now, that man is in jail. I don’t know what they’re doing to him,” she says, crying weakly. Her sisters-in-law console her. The family lives out of a two-room house at one end of the village.
 
 “He has always been a ‘kaam se kaam’ person, never interfering in other people’s business,” says a neighbour. He started mazdoori (manual labour) at the age of 15, breaking rocks on the nearby hill. The family has no land, and their house belonged to his maternal grandfather. After a couple of years working as a helper, moving material at an export factory, he started driving. “That’s what he was, a pakka driver,” says the neighbour. “He just waiting to get money together to renew his licence for an HTV (heavy transport vehicle), and making do with a conductor’s job,” she says.
 
 Before getting the job at   with a salary of Rs 7,000, Kumar worked in the local   school, earning roughly Rs 4,000, which kept the home running. His wife also works in the school (Vivek Bharti) as a cleaner, but her salary was largely spent on the fees of her two boys, who study at Vivek Bharti too. The boys are too young to know what’s going on, though they keep asking to see their father, says the family.
 
 Ashok’s eight-year-old son hangs about near his mother and grandfather, flashing a shy smile now and then. He is wearing a vest that he got from a kanvad yatra that his father went on. The child’s arm is broken, his elbow set at an odd angle. His family has not been able to get him treated for lack of money, says his grandfather. “How could a man so kind, so gentle, be accused of such a crime? Don’t go by my word on what he’s like, I’m his father. Ask anyone else who knew him,” his father adds.
 
 The police visited on Wednesday for the first time, and told them nothing, says the family. “They just asked us what we stored in the water tanker in the yard — as though it could be anything but water,” says Ashok’s mother. “You can see the dire straits this family is in. Ashok was the only proper source of income. They can’t even afford a lawyer, they manage for a month on the money that others might spend on a couple of dinners,” says a family acquaintance, who had got Ashok his first job at the export factory.
 
 Huddled in the room with Ashok’s wife and children, the women have their own theories about the crime. “We watch CID and all the crime shows on TV, we’re smart,” says a neighbour. They show a picture of Ashok’s toolbox with a new knife inside it, to insist that it could not have been the murder weapon. They ask why a grown man who wanted to hide his actions would choose the only bathroom cubicle that didn’t have a bolt. They blame the school for concealing details, and for implicating Ashok. “This school charges a lakh from each child, and they could not afford a separate bathroom for the staff?” asks one of his sisters. “I work as a cleaner in a school too, it is my duty to make sure the child goes from the toilet to the classroom,” says Ashok’s wife.
 
 “We can’t even imagine the pain the child’s family is suffering, my hair stands on end at the thought of it,” says Ashok’s  . “But it should be a fair investigation, one that does not let the school get away with framing the first person,” she says.
 
 
