From missed periods to menstrual cramps, the period problems are common but usually are not considered serious. The uneasy and uncomfortable situation may make you cranky and can adversely affect your mood. Admit it, you cannot avoid problematic periods but can definitely try some effective remedies to prevent cramps and discomfort. Here we have listed a few Ayurvedic remedies which can help you with period problems.

 
 
 
 PCOD is a health condition that affects one in every 10 women. PCOS is an aftermath of a hormonal imbalance in women wherein testosterone levels shoot up in the body causing an array of symptomatic reactions. A woman with PCOS is prone to gain weight, pelvic pain, acne, depression and irregular menstrual cycles. In some cases, women with PCOD may even face challenges in conceiving. But with proper treatment, diet and exercise schedule, PCOD is curable.
 
 The most simple and effective treatment for PCOD is Ayurveda. You can rely on Aloe Vera pulp with manjistha (rubia cordifolia) capsule. This helps in purifying blood and gradually restores the health of uterus which results in regular, healthy periods.
 
 
 
 
 Menorrhagia is defined as menstruation at regular intervals but with excessive flow and duration. This is one of the most common problems in women. Some women have also reported heavy bleeding for 6 to 7 days during periods leading to weakness and other health issues. According to Vaidya Pravin Hirpara, niranjan phal (China Fruit) is best and effective medicine for Menorrhagia.
 
 You can soak Niranjan Phal in water for 1.5 to two hours till the time fruit swells to the size of a lemon. Crush and squeeze the pulp into the water. Add some sugar and drink it. This effectively controls menstrual bleeding.
 
 
 
 
 Many women find menstruation odour unpleasant during and after their periods. You may experience this situation despite maintaining hygiene. A normal vaginal discharge doesn't have any smell. But a foul-smelling vaginal discharge is a distinctive point between a normal and abnormal menstrual period. The foul odour during menstruation is not normal, thus should be considered a serious problem. It can be the result of infection in the vagina or in the cervix. This foul smell is called aartdushti in Ayurveda and can be treated with manjishta which helps in blood purification.
 
 
 
 
 A white or yellow sticky discharge from the vagina or uterine cavity is referred to as Leukorrhea. This often gets increased at the time of ovulation or before a menstrual period. This situation is also stimulated by sexual excitement, whether or not coitus takes place. Excessive discharge, however, may indicate an abnormal condition. A yellow or creamy white discharge, especially if it is thick, often contains pus and provides evidence of an infection. Eating one or two bananas a day can solve this problem easily.
 
 
 
 
 According to Ayurveda, cow ghee is an effective medicine for several health-related problems. "Phala-Ghrita, which is prepared using cow ghee is believed to be extremely useful for gynaecology problems. From irregular periods to pregnancy, it works equally effectively. Hirpara adds, "Ayurveda believes that recipe of this Ghee was invented by Ashwini Kumar, the doctor of Gods."
 
 
 
 (Image Courtesy: Shutterstock)
 
  
  
 
