So, it is time for the last pay-per-view before the biggest event of the summer comes around -   Summerslam. SmackDown Live has done well in recent weeks and heading in to the Battleground they have managed a decked card - not as decked as Monday Night RAW’s Great Balls of Fire, but still with four potential show stealers Battleground could prove to be a solid event. 

 Here look at the full match card and predictions for  
 
 
 
 
 The third match of the Mahal-Orton program and it is a Punjabi Prison Match. The hype for this match has not quite been exciting, but Orton has shone through here. Mahal faltered in his promo last week and despite bringing back the rare gimmick match, the match doesn’t seem to generate the big-match feeling. 
 
  
  
 However, taking the title off Mahal now doesn’t make sense and we should see Mahal retaining the title once again with the help of Singh brothers. What would be interesting to watch though is how the brothers manage to help Mahal inside the forbidding structure.
 
 
 
 
 When Cena made his comeback on July 4, there was a huge buzz that he might go after Mahal, but instead he was paired with Rusev. AJ Styles was teased couple of weeks back but that was it. Three weeks after America’s Independence Day makes the Flag match a bit of an oddity. This should be a passing feud before Cena sets his eye for a 17th title. 
 
  
  
 Prediction, well it is flag match and Cena will most definitely take it. 
 
 
 
 This match has the potential to be the best match of the night. Hark back your memory to WWE Backlash and you would know what I am saying. A surprise title change at a house show at Madison Square Garden adds fuel to the build-up. Really tough to call as WWE can go with either two as champion and book a solid feud till SummerSlam. However, Styles works better chasing a title so he might drop the title at Battleground before regaining at SummerSlam. 
 
 
 
 After reinventing themselves, the USOS have got fantastic momentum heading in to Battleground. When the New Day arrived at SmackDown Live after the Superstar shake-up, it was widely speculated that they will get their hands on the gold and while the former RAW tag team champions have been the most entertaining act in WWE, USOS with the paranoia gimmick have probably outdone themselves and they should walk out of Battleground as champions. 
 
 
 
 The booking in women’s division has been very clever from SmackDown Live and instead of having Charlotte and Becky – the best of the lot – go at themselves, a fatal five-way elimination adds layers to the match. It should eventually boil down to Charlotte and Becky with the ‘Queen’ getting a chance to dethrone Naomi as SmackDown Live champ. 
 
 
 
 Corbin is being groomed as the next big monster heel, on similar lines of Braun Strowman and so far the Lone Wolf has responded in kind. However, with Nakamura WWE seem to be losing the plot. Corbin has been dominant to the build up, so this match should go Nakamura’s way to help both superstars come out of the feud unscathed. 
 
 
 Start of an interesting program and finally Zayn is not being booked as the Underdog. For fans who have followed Zayn as El Generico would know that the guy is absolute gold in comedy and WWE is taking this feud on similar lines. Mike Kanellis (Mike Bennett in the Indie circuit) has tons of experience going against Zayn and this match could be the sleeper hit of the night. Kanellis should win his in-ring PPV debut. 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 With Breezango WWE is building something really interesting here and their momentum should take them to victory over whoever they face. 
 
 
 
 Back in NXT, when Tye was with Jason Jordan in a tag team and English was flying solo, I did feel Tye should go solo and English needs a tag partner. Nevertheless, fast forward three years and these two are solo acts. Tye is already over and English is getting in to his element. A loss to Tye should not hamper the Perfect 10, so I will give this one to The Artist.
 
