BHUBANESWAR: Despite being one of the early backers of the  , the state government on Wednesday informed the Centre that it has severely impacted Odisha's economic activities. 

 "In the aftermath of the withdrawal of bank notes of Rs 1000 and Rs 500 denominations, economic activity has been interrupted," finance minister  , who attended the pre-budget consultation meeting convened by Union finance minister   in New Delhi, said.
 
 "As per preliminary estimate, the collection of tax revenue has fallen by 11 per cent in December as compared to the corresponding period of the previous year," an official source said. 
 
 Amat also demanded that restriction on withdrawal of money from bank accounts be lifted so that economic activity can resume at the earliest and contribute to the revenues of the state government. As many ATMs in Odisha have been dispensing Rs 2000 denomination, the state government urged the Centre to ensure adequate supply of lower denomination notes.
 
 To spur investment and economic growth post demonetisation, the state government also demanded that corporate and personal tax rates be lowered in the forthcoming annual budget of the   government.
 
 In the backdrop of its claim of receiving investment assurances worth Rs 3.64 lakh crore in the past one year, Amat called for uniformity in import duty structure to encourage the manufacturing sector. Odisha, among others, also sought to eliminate cess and surcharge over and above the tax slab.
 
 "Since the Centre is going to roll out the Goods and   (GST) during the next financial year, Odisha opposed the Centre's move not to grant CST compensation from 2013-14 onwards," Amat said, adding "in view of declining revenues in the aftermath of demonetisation, CST compensation from 2013-14 onwards may be considered". 
 
 To ensure financial inclusion, Odisha also urged the Centre to open more branches of different banks in the state. Nearly 4400 gram panchayats out of the total 6800 don't have bank branches. 
 
 
