COIMBATORE: The urban development ministry has finally sanctioned Rs 453 crore for the city’s ambitious 24x7 water supply project for which the civic body had sent a proposal to the ministry’s Central Sanctioning and Monitoring Committee on October 28, 2013.

 At that time, the proposal was sent under the   and Rejuvenation Mission. The scheme was recently rechristened as Atal Mission for   (AMRUT).
 
 As per the proposal, a private firm will lay new pipelines and be incharge of the construction and planning of the entire project. The firm will also be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the project for 30 years. The corporation will receive 125 million litres a day (MLD) of   from Pilloor II water scheme.
 
 Corporation officials said it would take a few more weeks to receive the funds. “The union ministry has approved the project and sanctioned the amount. We had invited tenders for the project recently,” they said.
 
 The   has also approved the proposal and is monitoring the entire process. The firm which bags the tender would first conduct a study and submit a report. Following that civil work would begin.
 
 When contacted by TOI, corporation officials incharge of the project said the tender process was in its second stage and proposals from two companies had been received. The companies - Veolia water technologies and Suez waters - have been asked to send in their financial bids.
 
 The project is estimated at Rs 556.57 crore and involves replacing 1,467km of pipeline in 60 wards. It will benefit nearly 10.5 lakh people in the city. As many as 29 new overhead tanks will also be set up as part of the project, which was proposed keeping in mind the population of the city in 2045.
 
 The present supply level ranges from 75 litre per capita per day (lpcd) to 125lpcd (based on sample studies made) that too with the intermittent supply of 3-4 hours a day, once a week or once in 15 days. “Once this project is implemented, all water woes, including those related to contamination due to mixing of sewage and blockage of pipes, will be resolved,” the officials said.
 
