Former chief minister   was the only Congress leader to stand chief minister  ' attack during the elections to the municipal corporations and zilla parishads across the state. He was able to retain control over the   and in the house of 50, Congress secured a clear majority. In the past, his elder son Nilesh lost the   polls to   nominee Vinayak Raut, while Rane himself lost to his arch political rival Vaibhav Naik. Subsequently, Rane made a fresh attempt to enter the lower house but he did not succeed, however, he later managed an entry into the upper house.

 One man show
 
 Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis took the entire state by a storm when the BJP gained control over maximum municipal corporations and zilla parishads. Fadnavis be gan planning for the municipal council elections immediately after he took over the reins of the state in December 2014. 
 Initially, it was proposed to entrust the task to a high level committee, but Fadnavis took the responsibility on himself.Besides examining the elective merit of all the nominees, he personally toured the state. On the day the results were out, he began planning for the municipal corporation and zilla parishad elections. A comprehensive action plan was drafted ­ daily interactions with media, campaigning in and out of Mumbai. A BJP cabinet member predicts that Fadnavis has drafted an action plan for the 2019 Lok Sabha and assembly polls too.
 
 Mother versus son
 
 In Jalgaon, it was a contest between a mother and her son.Shiv Sena had nominated a local activist P B Sonawane, while BJP had nominated his mother Leelabai Sonwane, a sit ting member of the Jalgaon zilla parishad. Ever since the election process began, there was uncertainty on whether Leelabai Sonawane will contest or not, since she was expecting her son to contest the election. In fact, she had offered her seat to the son on the condition that he will contest on a BJP ticket. Owing to differences between them, he did decide to contest as a Shiv Sena candidate. An upset Leelabai decided to contest against her son.There was extensive campaign against each other, in fact election campaign in Jalgaon district was launched by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. At CM's first meeting in the Jalgaon district, there was massive response and it was expected that the mother will be elected.When the results were declared, the son defeated his mother by 7,000 votes.
 
