Aurangabad: The waiting period at the Post Office Passport Seva Kendra ( ), Aurangabad has increased by almost a month, even after authorities raising the daily appointment quota to 130. 

 An official said the increase in waiting period was because of the heavy rush of applicants. He said that the   has been entertaining maximum appointments from among the three such facilities operating in the jurisdiction of the regional passport office, Mumbai.
 
 The waiting period for appointment and document verification after filling the online form was for a month at Aurangabad earlier as well. Following this, daily appointments increased from 50 to 100 a day, thereby reducing the waiting period by a half.
 
 According to the official data, appointments can be availed on June 6 only if online registration and booking was done on Monday. “The passport facility is over a month old now. The smooth run of the POPSK is prompting more people to apply for a passport, resulting in higher rush of applicants,” an official said. 
 
 An official said considering how the one-month waiting period is likely again, authorities are considering a marginal increase in the number of daily appointments. “We have constraints in terms of staff and infrastructure, as available resources are already being used to the fullest. Nevertheless, it is positive sign that the passport facility has been attracting a large number of applicants,” the official said.
 
 The   that started a few days before its Aurangabad counterpart has a waiting period of around a month and a week, with 110 appointments each day. POPSK, Daman and POPSK, Silvasa have a waiting period of only a few days, with a daily appointment tally of 40 and 20 respectively.
 
 In the meantime, applicants who had have gone to the Aurangabad POPSK as per scheduled appointment were satisfied with the overall service. “I had an appointment scheduled at 3.30pm a few days ago. Initially, I thought it would be a complex and time-consuming process. But, to my surprise I could finish the work within 40 minutes. I found the staff highly cooperative and the overall ambience was good,”  , a professional, said.
 
 Inaugurated on the occasion of   on March 28, the Aurangabad POPSK was set up following the announcement by the MEA and postal department. They had said that the head post office in various states was to be used as POPSK, with an aim to extend passport services on a larger scale. Mysuru in Karnataka and Dahod in Gujarat had witnessed the pilot launch of the project on January 25.
 
 
