KOLKATA: For years,   has been   atop white cars used by ministers and bureaucrats. On Tuesday, it was role reversal. He was tasked with removing them.

 Das, deployed as a senior car mechanic at state government’s pool car garage in Bhowanipore, removed the red and blue lights off as many as 67 vehicles on Tuesday. “Without the red  , the car looks like a widow – a lady without vermillion on her forehead,” he chuckled.
 
 Another person was entrusted with the job of calling the drivers who had left the garage early with the beacons still installed and summon them back to the garage to take off the light. “I had left the garage with a senior official from the transport department. But they called me back with the car. I had to remove the beacon and submit it to the stores. Another mechanic removed the two red lights fixed on car’s grille,” said a driver.
 
 The transport department went into overdrive on Tuesday afternoon. An urgent message had jerked everyone from the perpetual stupor. Till Monday evening, there was no indication of which way the state would go if the ban on beacon was issued by the Centre. 
 
 “We had been asked to put a cap on the lights till any further instruction from the government. Some had even suggested that the state was opposed to the Centre’s unilateral decision. But around noon, we got a call from the transport department to immediately take off all beacons and front grille lights,” said a senior official at the Bhowanipore garage.
 
 Food procurement and horticulture minister Abdur Rezzak Mollah, who was seen using a car that still had the beacon in place, claimed he was a victim of the flip-flop. “On Tuesday morning, my driver said he had been instructed not to remove the beacon. When I was leaving for Bhangor, he said he had been asked by the pool car garage to remove the beacon,” said Mollah.
 
 For a better part of Tuesday, the state transport department officers remained huddled in a meeting following the seventh amendment in the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 2017, that were made a day earlier. An officer said that since the amendment was binding on the state, it had no option but comply. “The state will now be preparing the list of vehicles engaged in emergency and disaster management duties for use of multi-colour flashers,” he said.
 
 Prior to the Monday’s notification, the state government had written a letter requesting a review of the decision, alleging that the state’s power in central motor vehicles rule is being robbed. But bureaucrats are happy that it is the state that has to decide which vehicles will have multi-color flashers. 
 
 “We have informally conveyed to every department that vehicles must be stripped off red, blue or amber beacon,” a transport department official said.
 
 However, there are grey areas in the notification. There is no intimation regarding the ban and the penalty for defaulters. “Before enforcement, we have to be amply clear about it. Bengal’s transport department is in touch with Union ministry of road transport and highways for required interpretation of the amended rule,” said another official.
 
 The state government in next few days will issue a written order for implementation of the amended rule. According to the amendment, the amber beacon can be used atop vehicles operating within well-defined premises such as airport, ports, mines and project sites. “We have to print yellow stickers for vehicles entitled for multi-colour beacons in emergency service, disaster management,” said an official.
 
 When told that the hooter or sirens might replace the beacon to keep the VIP culture alive, a transport department official claimed the department and police had the right to use hooters. Anyone else using hooters can be fined Rs 5,000.
 
 The Mamata Banerjee government was the pioneer in scrapping beacons from VVIP cars in 2014 when it issued a government notification stating that no one other than the governor, chief minister, cabinet ministers, speaker of the Assembly, leader of the opposition in the Assembly, chief justice of Calcutta high court and other high court judges were entitled to use red beacon with flashers atop their cars. The chief secretary, city mayor, deputy speaker of the Assembly and ministers of state could use red lights without flashers.
 
 But the Modi government moved one step ahead by stripping all important dignitaries of the country including the President, Prime Minister and Chief Justice of India of the “very very important” status.
 
