Ranchi: Jharkhand Mukti Morcha ( ) on Thursday accused Prime Minister   and BJP of trying to influence the upcoming Littipara assembly by-election by scheduling his visit to neighboring Sahibganj district on April 6. 

 In a letter to chief election commissioner, the former ally in UPA government alleged that PM Modi’s visit to Sahibganj, to lay the foundation of a bridge connecting Bihar and Jharkhand over the Ganges, is a move to lure voters ahead of the April 9 poll in Littipara. 
 
 Undersigned by JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya, the two-page letter claimed the BJP leader’s scheduled program, which includes distribution of smartphones among tribal women and handing direct appointment letters to members of Pahariya tribal community, will have a direct influence on voters during the election. 
 
 The JMM claimed that Littipara seat in tribal bastion Santhal Pargana has over 27,000 voters from the Pahariya tribal community. “Most of those who will be given smartphones and appointment letters are voters of the Littipara assembly seat,” the letter claimed. A copy of the letter has also been sent to the state election commissioner. 
 
 The tribal outfit, which will be fighting to retain the Littipara seat after incumbent JMM legislator Anil Kumar Murmu died in January, has also accused chief minister Raghubar Das of trying to lure voters by promising jobs and free housing a month before the election. 
 
 “The chief minister, in a convention of BJP’s ST workers in Dumka on March 17, had promised relief worth crores for farmers, free housing and jobs,” the JMM claimed, adding that a part of Dumka block comes under the Littipara assembly seat, where the “model code of conduct was already in place”. 
 
 The JMM has, in its letter, requested the Election Commission of India to intervene in Modi’s visit and reschedule it after the completion of election. 
 
 The BJP is locking horns with JMM in its stronghold Littipara seat by fielding party’s state vice president and tribal heavyweight Hemlal Murmu. JMM, on the other hand, has decided to field BJP turncoat Simon Marandi. 
 
 
