GURUGRAM: Investigation by Gurgaon police’s special investigation team (SIT) into the Ryan murder case is pointing towards the school’s northern region head   as a key accused, for negligence and security lapses.

 The SIT claimed Francis had complete financial power and was also the approval authority. He had also received many reminders from the principal. Yet, he hadn’t taken the necessary steps to boost the school’s security, which could have averted last Friday’s tragedy.
 
 “Not only did Francis Thomas flout rules and guidelines, he also ignored doable work like building a boundary wall and separate restrooms for staff and students,” said SIT officials. “The former principal, as well as the acting principal, had sought to change the security agency for poor performance, but they were ignored. Demands were also made to replace faulty CCTV cameras and install more cameras, but went unheeded. Similarly, request for separate toilets was ignored,” said a senior officer in SIT.
 
 “Many lapses in security and transport have been found. We’ve arrested Francis Thomas, who as approval authority, didn’t take the necessary steps. We’ll file a chargesheet soon,” said police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar. 
 
 Teams of the Haryana police forensic science laboratory (FSL) and CBSE visited the school today. The first to reach was a four-member CBSE team, around 10.30am. They visited the murder spot, reviewed records and safety measures inside and outside the premises, and collected documents, but refused to speak to media. During their hour-and-half-long probe, they also questioned employees and members of the management. 
 
 All eight security guards who were fired following the tragedy, were also called for questioning on Wednesday. From around 12 noon, the SIT questioned each guard for half-an-hour each. “We’ve recorded statements of all eight guards,” said a senior SIT officer.
 
 Later, two teams from FSL — from Bhondsi and Rohtak — also visited the spot to collect evidence. They also recreated the crime scene and questioned staffers. Police continued to be deployed in the school, the nearby area, and houses of the two student witnesses from Class II, whose statements were recorded under Section 164 CrPC on Tuesday.
 
 
