MUMBAI: Brace for a hike in rates of   (CNG) and   across Mumbai metropolitan region from Wednesday .While   prices (including taxes) will be up by Rs 1.49 per kg, cooking gas will escalate by Rs 1.08 per unit (scm).

 Any CNG hike will impact public transport fares in the near future as all autos and taxis ply on CNG and nearly 70% BEST buses ply on the green fuel in Mumbai. Auto and taxi unions have been demanding a minimum fare hike of Rs 2 on base fare and the matter is before the Khatua committee at present. Similarly , any increase in piped gas prices will pinch household consumers, many of whom have given up LPG cylinders and switched to piped natural gas for cooking purposes. Their monthly bills could go up at least by Rs 30 in the next billing cycle.
 
 A senior official from Mahanagar Gas Limited (MGL) said prices will be uniform across all municipalities in the region unlike in the past, when prices for CNG and piped gas differed for Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan and Mi ra Road. “At present, rates will be same across the metropolitan region,“ the official said.
 
 Accordingly , revised delivered prices, inclusive of all taxes of CNG and domestic piped gas, in and around Mumbai will be Rs 42.63 per kg and Rs 25.69 per unit (slab 1) and Rs.31.29 per unit (slab 2) respecti vely, in place of earlier rates of Rs. 41.14 per kg and Rs. 24.61per unit (slab 1) and Rs 30.21 per unit (slab 2) respectively . Said an MGL spokesperson: “In view of an increase in MGL's gas purchase costs due to the recent increase in domestic natural gas price by central government from US$ 2.48MMBTU (per unit) to US$ 2.89MMBTU (per unit), MGL is constrained to increase basic price of CNG by Rs 1.49 per kg and domestic piped natural gas by Rs 1.08 per unit in Mumbai metropolitan region from Wednesday .“
 
 TOI had highlighted a week ago how 8% of private cars in the region switched to CNG.MGL's statistics showed more than 5.6 lakh vehicles run on the green fuel in Mumbai region, which includes 2.57 lakh private cars, 2.38 lakh autos and more than 61,000 taxis, while nearly 9.5 lakh households have piped gas.
 
 Asked about the impact, an MGL spokesperson said: “The hike will have a marginal impact of Rs 0.04km and Rs 0.06 km on the per km running costs of autos and taxis. Even after the revision, CNG offers savings of about 63% and 32% compared to petrol and diesel respectively at current prices.“
 
