MUMBAI: At a time when children in the   are dying of malnutrition, the  , led by  , has diverted funds sanctioned by the Centre for the   and strengthening institutions for renovation of the secretary's chamber in Mantralaya. 

 As per a two-page order issued by the department's section officer L R Dhaygude on April 29, the Centre has sanctioned Rs 14.48 crore for strengthening of institutions, out of which Rs 29.59 lakh have been diverted for the repair and renovation of the chamber of the department's secretary in Mantralaya. The repair and renovation work includes procurement of new furniture and wiring for electrical and electronic equipments in the cabin. The department is expected to issue a tender for the work as per the procedure prescribed under the public works department rules. The Nashik-based tribal development commissioner will provide funds for the project.
 
  Under Article 275, the Centre releases funds to needy states from each year's consolidated funds as grants-in-aid to enable them to meet the cost of tribal welfare schemes. 
 
 Social worker Vivek Pandit, who has taken up the cause of the tribals in Palghar, expressed shock and surprise over the amount being diverted. "I think, there is lack of sensitivity. At a juncture, when basic infrastructure and amenities are lacking along the entire tribal belt and the government has failed to check deaths of tribal children due to malnutrition, government is spending huge money on renovation of chambers. Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis should step in and stop misuse of funds," he said.
 
  Pandit said tribal development minister Vishnu Savara has completely neglected the department and he was not at all sensitive to the problems and miseries of the tribals. "In Savara's hometown, tribals are facing so many harships, but he appears to be least concerned," Pandit added. 
 
 Savara did not respond to TOI's texts, however, a senior official submitted a clarification to chief minister Devendra Fadnavis stating that the funds under institutional strengthening were lying unused and that these funds can not be used for any other scheme. "The Rs 29.59 lakh has been diverted to create a small conference hall that will be used by secretaries of the tribal development and social justice department for review meetings. At the moment, there is severe space constraint; four or five persons can't sit in the chamber.... There are no funds allocated for such works, as such funds meant for institutional strengthening are being utilised since secretary's office is integral to the tribal development department. There is a huge problem when officials from Unicef or Tata trusts visit. The cost estimate has been done by the public works department," it said.
 
 
