MUMBAI: In what could unearth a bigger racket at the state-run  , cops are probing a case filed by the relatives of a kidney patient who alleged that a hospital staffer had returned to the chemist prescribed medical equipment bought by the family and pocketed the refund. On Friday, refusing to grant anticipatory bail to the accused,  , a sessions court observed, “The possibility of (there being an) associate of the applicant (Pawar) within the hospital cannot be ruled out.Further investigation is necessary in this direction. Custodial interrogation of the applicant is therefore necessary.“

 A police officer said a probe was on to see if there are other such instances.
 
 The complainant registered an FIR for cheating against the accused with the MRA Marg police station last month. In December, a family member was admitted to the hospital for kidney surgery . The patient was entitled to benefits under the  . The complainant told the cops that the doctor had prescribed the purchase of surgery related articles, which he bought from a chemist near the hospital. The amount paid was Rs 900. He stated the articles and the bill were taken by hospital staff. The complainant said he assumed that they were taken for verification to ensure the right articles were bought.
 
 He alleged that when the family sought the return of the bill, the staff did not hand it over. Hence, he was forced to go back to the chemist and request for a duplicate bill. He was shocked when the chemist told him the surgical equipment sold to him was returned with the bill, and a refund had been paid to the person who brought the equipment back.
 
 The complainant alleged that CCTV footage from the shop was verified and it was found that it was Pawar who returned the equipment and took the refund. The complainant said the medical superintendent of the hospital was informed and he conducted an inquiry.The report was submitted to the police and an offence registered against Pawar.
 
 Seeking anticipatory bail, Pawar's lawyer told the court there was a delay of 16 days in registering the FIR and so no case was made out against him. The prosecution opposed the plea and said Pawar had been identified in the CCTV footage and his custodial interrogation was necessary to ascertain if others in the hospital were involved.
 
 The inquiry was conducted Dr  , recently retired superintendent of St George Hospital. He said the accused was a ward help from JJ Hospital who had recently arrived with 20 others at St George Hospital to fill in vacancies. Bhawani said that under the Rajiv Gandhi Health Scheme, medical services rendered to the patient were free. “No doctor had written the note to buy the articles. The note was written by Pawar. We found him guilty in the inquiry and he was given the harshest punishment as he was terminated.“
 
