NASHIK:   interim, chairman of Tata Sons, was all praise for the iconic botanical garden in the   at the foothills of Pandavleni.

 Tata, accompanied by MNS chief   and other senior officials of  , on Monday morning visited the garden, which has become a major attraction. It was inaugurated on December 27 last year by actor Nana Patekar and other Marathi film stars.
 
 Developed by Tata Trust, the botanical garden is the first of its kind in the country and only one in South East Asia with a unique laser show. 
 
 With only few beautification projects in its kitty, the ruling MNS in   (NMC) is apparently trying to bank on projects like this to fight anti-incumbency and retain power in the upcoming civic election.
 
 Tata hailed the architect and the designer of the laser show while the Who’s Who of the city were present for this rare occasion to greet the octogenarian. Tata humbly accepted their greetings and had brief interactions with them.
 
 Abhay Kulkarni, chairman of Nashik First, a non-governmental organisation, praised Tatas as pioneers in air service and urged the industrialist to launch an air service in Nashik. Tata said he would “look into the request”. 
 
 “We have a full-fledged airport here but there is no air service, due to which IT industries refuse to come here. If there are flights connecting Ahmedabad, Nashik and Mumbai; Nagpur, Nashik and Delhi, it would really work well. There are many from Nashik who travel to places like Gujarat, and Nagpur,” said Kulkarni. 
 
 Representatives of Nashik Industries and Manufacturing Association (NIMA) requested Tata to start a unit in Nashik. “If you can invest here by starting some manufacturing unit, it will be very good,” said president of NIMA Harishankar Banerjee and general secretary Uday Kharote.
 
 The association handed over a letter to Tata requesting him to invest in Nashik by setting up manufacturing facilities in the city and further contribute to the economic growth of the region. They thanked him for setting up TCS office in Nashik last year and putting Nashik on the IT map. They also said that Nashik had a full-fledged and well-equipped modern airport on the premises of HAL factory.
 
 “We have requested various airlines to start service from Nashik. Industry members are also willing to sign loyalty programme with an airline to help in viability,” they mentioned in the letter. They requested him to ask his group airliners to look at the opportunity to start an air service from Nashik.
 
 Asked about Raj Thackeray’s work and if his party would win the civic election, Tata said, “I don’t know about that. The botanical garden has been done very beautifully.”
 
