NAGPUR: In a surprising move, the police filed an FIR against top Congress leaders of the city for creating   during an agitation at the collector’s office, which is a silent zone. The offence was registered against city Congress president Vikas Thakre and other party members at Sadar police station.

 On Friday morning, the   members were protesting against demonetisation and raising slogans against PM  . “The decibel levels were recorded at 109 dB(A), whereas the permissible noise limit for a silent zone is 50 decibels,” said ACP (Sadar) Somnath Waghchaure.
 
 Calling the FIR an act of political vendetta, former Congress MP Vilas Muttemwar said, “The   is trying to show its clout just because it is the ruling party. Loudspeakers and mikes have always been used by political parties and no action has ever been taken.” Muttemwar too was present at the protest.
 
 Charges have been framed under section 15 of Environment Protection Act. As per Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules (2000) issued by the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF), loudspeakers or public address systems cannot be used without obtaining written permission from the authorities. In case of non-compliance of rules, the punishment can extend to five-year imprisonment and a fine up to Rs1 lakh.
 
 Police sources said most of the party members booked by them had gone underground. However, cops arrested the driver of the vehicle on which the sound system was mounted as well as the owner of the system. “A team of officials is trying to trace the party members,” Waghchaure told TOI at around 10pm.
 
 He added that the protesters were using two mikes and loudspeakers. “Despite repeated warnings, the agitators kept making a noise at the collectorate. Seeing the noise levels rising, we called for a noise meter and started recording the decibel levels. On average, they were recorded above 100dB,” said Waghchaure.
 
 A year back, the state home department had made police authorities responsible for initiating legal action in cases of noise pollution. Following this, senior police inspectors of every police station in the city were made designated officers to take action in noise pollution cases. A public notification regarding the same was also issued on the official website of Nagpur police. TOI had earlier reported that last year only two cases were registered in the city under Noise Pollution Rules, 2000.
 
 
