CHENNAI: Policemen have their   (SOP) laid out while investigating  : Recce the area for suspicious looking bikers, ask informers to check out the local pawnbroker and so on. Recently, police added   to their SOP and it paid off in Ambathur. 

 When chain snatchers struck there last week, the police went looking for CCTV footage. They zeroed in on Sathish, a man in his 30s whom the police knew was involved in other cases. Satish’s images were captured in 30 different angles and uploaded in the policemen   group that had 50 members. The policemen were instructed to look for the man who had been evading police arrest.
 
 On Saturday night, a police constable who was grabbing a bite at a fast food joint noticed a man whose face seemed to ring a bell in his mind. He scrolled through one of his WhatsApp groups when he noticed that the man at the fast food joint was indeed a chain snatching accused. When the constable approached Sathish, the suspect seemed to get the jitters and tried to scamper away. 
 
 When Sathish tried to bolt from the scene, the constable caught hold of him and took him to   for questioning. 
 
 Police say that Sathish was involved in atleast five cases of chain snatching in the recent past. He took a house on rent and used stolen bikes to snatch chains. “He doesn’t own a bike, which made it harder for us to nab him. When he goes out on his hunts, he steals a bike and targets women walking alone. After snatching the chain from a woman, he rides away but soon enough abandons his bike somewhere in the same area,” said deputy commissioner, Ambathur R Sudhakar.
 
 “He doesn’t use the same bike for his next chain snatching, as he knows that this would invite trouble and lead to being identified,” he said.
 
 Police say that sometimes if there is no CCTV footage, victims often note down the registration number of the bikes or memorize them. To beat this, clever chain snatchers use stolen bikes and manage to escape the police net for a long time. 
 
 Sathish was a lone wolf and didn’t have accomplices, police say. He himself rode the bike and targeted elderly women mainly.
 
 Police are likely to remand him in judicial custody.
 
