Rita Rajan, a banker, spent sleepless nights many a times due to her husband Anurag’s habit of talking in his sleep.   would blabber about his day and even touch upon some of their conversations. While this was an innocent case of talking in  , it did have an effect on her health and even on their relationship. Says Rita, “Finally we decided to seek help and now we have managed to bring it under control. It wasn’t a serious problem but it kept me awake at night!”

 
 The medical term for ‘sleep talking’ is ‘somniloquy’ or ‘parasomnia’ which, when translated, means abnormal behaviour that occurs during sleep. The causes could range from harmless to serious health disorders and research also points towards genetics. The ‘talk’ can be a conversation with self, or at times addressed to someone. It’s either mumble or at times, articulate speech. According to clinical psychologist, Dr  , “Sleep is a time for rest and rejuvenation. It is the time our body and mind takes to process, digest and recalibrate. While the conscious mind is resting, the subconscious is awake. During sleep, voluntary activities of the body, like walking, stop, but involuntary activities, like the beating of heart, continue.” 
 
  
 According to  , mental health expert, there are many reasons why this happens... 
 
 
 
 Talking in sleep is a natural way of cleansing negative thoughts or suppressed emotions trapped in the subconscious mind, say experts. “It would help if the person experiencing this can talk to a partner or friend about their feelings without any risk of negative consequences,” says Mantry. Doctors also suggest maintaining a   which helps in treating the condition. The diary should have details like time of going to bed, time of drifting off to sleep, the time when you wake up. Apart from this, things like medicines taken, fitness activities through the day and food and drinks consumed in the evening should also be noted. After maintaining this diary for at least 2-4 weeks, a sleep pattern can be interpreted. A family member can help with the sleep talking pattern and an expert can guide you to take corrective measures if you want to reduce incidences of talking in your sleep.
 
 It is disturbing for many parents to find their children talking in their sleep and they are eager to find out the causes and remedies for the same. Dr Kanan, who also coaches children on life skills for enhancing their leadership and emotional quotient for performance, says, “There is a gateway in the brain that shuts down when we sleep. We don’t walk, talk or eat in our sleep. This gateway closes by the time a child is 3 to 4 years old. However, if the brain for some reason keeps this gateway partially open, it is receiving input that the mind and body are awake. A child experiences this if he is in a hyper active state of mind or has not been able to express certain emotions during the day. However, parents should know that sleep talking is not a medical or abnormal condition. Anyone, be it a child or a grownup, can go through this.”
 However, for parents who are anxious about their children being affected by this, here are a few tips:
 
 
