PATNA: Contrary to the claims of chief minister   for providing better academic infrastructure and facilities to students in the universities and colleges of the state, the proposed plan to start postgraduate (PG) teaching in about 11 constituent colleges of   (MU) could not be started despite approval from the MU academic council and syndicate in 2015.
 
  Thanks to the hurdles and bureaucratic wrangles in the   which have virtually not only belied the CM’s claims, but also sealed the fate of thousands of PG aspirants.
  
  According to an MU official, the university had approved the proposals of 11 constituent colleges to start PG teaching after getting the state government’s approval. The university accepted these proposals at the academic council meeting on April 12, 2015 after proper inspection of faculty strength, infrastructure, library and classroom facilities at these colleges, he said .
  
  The official said the university’s highest body took this decision in light of the Bihar State Universities Acts of 1976 (21d). Accordingly, the proposal was sent to the director, State   Department, with the copy of the university approval, list of the colleges and subjects in which PG teaching was viable to start at these 11 colleges way back on June 24, 2015 vide letter number X-Dev/1556/14/187/15 for the final approval, he said.
  
  According to B D College principal Sanjoy Kumar, the college had got permission from the university to start PG teaching in 14 subjects, including Philosophy, Political Science, English, Pali, Sanskrit, Economics, Sociology, Hindi, Psychology, Ancient History, Geography, Chemistry, Physics and Zoology. Even after a lapse of 18 months, the file was still gathering dust in the education department, he said.
  
  Disgusted with the delay in getting approval, Kumar said he personally chased the file with the deputy director, higher education department, Deosheel, for its early disposal. Unfortunately, he declined to give approval on lame excuses which had no connection with PG teaching in the constituent colleges. Unless Bihar CM and education minister Ashok Choudhary intervene in the matter, there is no hope for those students who want to pursue their career in PG teaching in the college, he said.
  
  Kumar said that a   (NAAC) peer team, which had visited B D College in 2014 for its accreditation, also recommended for PG teaching in the college in these subjects on the basis of better infrastructure facilities. “Surprisingly, the state government is taking such a long time to give its approval to start PG teaching. The college is already imparting PG teaching in Commerce,” he said.
