HYDERABAD: A high-voltage   staged by two engineering students left city police on tenterhooks for a few hours on Tuesday. However, police and family members of the `victim' heaved a sigh of relief when the two students were caught at Shahalibanda.

 At 10 pm on Monday, Anil Dutt, a businessman from Bedarwadi near Begum Bazar, approached Shahinayatgunj police stating his 19-year-old daughter, who went to college in the morning, did not return home. He also said that an unknown person called from her cellphone demanding Rs 30 lakh ransom to release her.
 
 “The man, posing as the kidnapper, had made ransom calls and also sent six SMSes to the victim's father threatening to kill her if the ransom was not paid or if police were alerted about the incident,“ Shahinayatgunj inspector M Ravinder Reddy said.
 
 Sensing the gravity of the situation, the higherups were informed about the complaint and Hyderabad police commissioner M Mahendar Reddy, along with deputy commissioner of police (DCP), West Zone, A Venkateswara Rao, reached the Shahinayatgunj police station to directly supervise the investigation. Cops tracked the cellphone of the victim and realised that it was on the move in several areas like Kushaiguda, Moula Ali and Shahalibanda. Finally at 2 am on Tuesday, a team of   sleuths located the victim along with her classmate, Abhishek, 19, in a deserted lane near his house at Shahalibanda.
 
 On interrogation, Abhishek and the `victim', who were reportedly in love, confessed to have staged the kidnap drama to collect Rs 30 lakh and settle in Mumbai.
 
 Police have registered a case against Abhishek under section 364-A (kidnapping for ransom) of the   (IPC) and recorded his statement. In her statement before the women police at Bharosa centre, the victim stated that she voluntarily participated in planning and execution of the kidnap drama to get ransom from her father. Based on her statement, police have not arrested Abhishek and, citing both the statements, the case might be recommended for closure.
 
