Ludhiana: Office-bearers and members of Muslim outfits marched from Field Ganj chowk to the office of the deputy commissioner to show support for Rohingya muslims. They submitted a memorandum to the deputy commissioner, asking him to take up the cause of the beleagured community with the ministries of the state and Centre. Addressing protesters, Shahi Imam Maulana Habib-ur-Rehman said, “The Muslim community strongly condemns action taken by the Myanmar government against members of the Rohingya community in the name of communalism. We have never seen such a heartredning massacre in the history of Myanmar. We have asked the Central government to intervene and do the needful for the Rohingyas”.

 The Shahi Imam also expressed distress at the move to send Rohingya refugees back. “The news of sending 40,000 Rohingyas refugees residing in the country back to their birthplace has also shaken Muslim outfits which are supporting them. The international community should pressurise the Myanmar government to resolve the issue, so that Rohingyas can live their life in peace and harmony”.
 
 He said the brutal murder of children and women, among others makes this a humanitarian concern that necessitates urgent action. “To stop this inhumanity, we wrote a letter to the general secretary, United Nations, Antonio Juteres and general secretary, OIC (Group of Muslim countries), Yusuf Al Otham to take appropiate action” , he added.
 
 Meanwhile, movement of traffic from the office of the deputy commissioner to the railway station was disrupted during the protest march, which started around 12pm and continued till 2pm. School buses, ambulance and passengers were stuck in jams for hours. Traffic police officials and police faced a tough time handling the situation. The Ludhiana-Ferozepur road, which is the city’s nerve centre, was the worst affected. There was a jam from Jargraon bride to the gates of Punjab Agriculture University. Many rail commuters could not make it in time to board trains from the city station. Traffic police took half an hour to restore traffic on the main road.
 
 
