 has finally responded to his former girlfriend's assault allegation that he brutally attacked her and threw her down the stairs, insisting that he is "saddened" and "disgusted" by the claims.

  In a statement posted by the actor on his Twitter account, he wrote, "I am saddened and disgusted by the false allegations being circulated about me. At the time these allegations were initially made, I fully cooperated with law enforcement and a thorough investigation was conducted."
 
  "As a man, raised by women, in a household where women's rights, feminism, and advocacy were very much at the forefront, I am sickened that my name can be found in any article where domestic violence of any kind is being alleged," he added.
 
  Phillippe continued, "I have been a public figure for almost 25 years and many untrue things have been said or written about me in the past. That is something you learn to accept if you choose a profession like mine."
 
  "This time is different," he noted.
 
  The 43-year-old's statement continued, "Domestic violence is a very real and tragic issue faced by many women [in] the world over and should never be used to vengefully slander or as a play for monetary gain."
 
  "This is wrong. This is not who I am. Every one of my accuser's allegations are false," he concluded.
 
  
  
  The statement comes after  , whom he dated for three months, released shocking images showing some of her injuries that she claimed that the   star had inflicted on her during Independence Day bust-up.
 
  The model had filed a lawsuit against the actor demanding over $1million for damages.
 
  However, Phillippe has strongly denied the allegations and accused Hewitt of using the domestic abuse claims "as a ploy for monetary gain".
 
  The dad-of-three has now hired an attorney and intends to file a counter-suit for defamation.
 
  ' ' actor divorced actress   in 2007 after an eight-year marriage. They share two children, daughter Ava and son Deacon.
 
  He also has a daughter Kailwith former girlfriend  .
 
