The petition ‘#RapeThreatsNotOK’ has found over 48,000 supporters in less than 48 hours since singer   started it on change.org. Addressed to Jack Dorsey, the CEO of Twitter, the petition makes a simple demand — “send a strong message against online abuse by doing a large scale shutdown of accounts which tweet rape threats to women.”
Pointing out how the microblogging universe and social media have become hostile towards women across the world, Chinmayi says it’s high time steps are taken to end this abuse. “Some men think rape threats are no big deal. But truth is rape is one of the worst forms of violence and the mental turmoil that a woman goes through when threatened with rape cannot be described in words,” says the singer, who first faced rape threats a few years ago when she expressed her opinion on the issue of Tamil fishermen being killed by the Sri Lankan Navy.
 “Back then, everyone told me to get off social media or shut down my accounts. But I stood my ground. Rape and threats of rape are used to silence women; I wasn’t going to bow to that pressure. I approached Twitter but I was told that no action can be taken unless I lodge a police complaint. Most women would choose to back out or deactivate their account at this point but I decided to fight and approached the cops. My fans helped me track the perpetrators —three men — who were put behind bars,” recalls Chinmayi, adding, “Whether it is Gurmehar Kaur, or me, or anyone else, every time a woman expresses an opinion that challenges the popular sentiment she is silenced with threats of rape and other gender-based violence. This has left me furious. I am a celebrity but there are millions of regular girls who don’t have the resources or gumption to fight it out. That is why I decided to start this petition.”
 Citing the instance in 2015 when 360,000 twitter accounts were shut down for links to terrorism, Chinmayi contests: “why can’t the same be done for accounts that tweet rape threats? Threats of rape can be objectively tracked and should not be protected as a ‘right to speech’. It’s time Twitter cleaned up its act and showed women that it is truly listening to our concerns.”
 
 
 
 Attacked for being ‘anti-national’
 One of the most recent cases of a woman being attacked and threatened online is that of Gurmehar Kaur’s. The 20-year-old’s post ‘War killed my father not pakistan’ was excuse enough for self-proclaimed desh bhakts to accuse her of being anti national and therefore, threaten her with rape.
 
 Attacked for animal activism
 During the Jallikattu protests, actor Trisha, who is also an ambassador for PETA, was bullied online. A poster was circulated, mourning her ‘death’ and calling her father ‘useless’ and her mother a ‘boastful woman’. PETA India CEO Poorva Joshipura also faced sexual harassment and rape threats for her pro-Jallikattu-ban stand.
 
 Congress spokesperson 
 attacked with the threat ‘...raped like Nirbhaya’ 
 Congress party spokesperson Priyanka Chaturvedi was threatened with “rape and death like Nirbhaya” for pointing out on BJP spokesperson's use of innuendo and insinuation to silence her on a TV debate. 
 
 Attacked for speaking up for free sex
 All India Progressive Women’s Association secretary   was sexually harassed on Facebook for her comment on a TV debate where she said that ‘one could only pity people who fear “free sex” because “un-free sex” is nothing but rape.’ 
 
 
 
 Noted social activist and BJP leader Shaina NC announced the setting up of a Helpline called ‘Stree Sanman’ for assisting women in distress, especially those who are targets of harassment via social media and mobile phone messages. A recent victim of stalking on her cell phone herself, Saina said in a statement: “I, myself, being a victim of stalking, realise the trauma that a woman can go through. I dared to complain to police and I am thankful to Mumbai Police, specially the Cyber Crime Cell, for acting promptly. I sincerely appeal to all women and girls to have the courage to come out and teach the stalkers a befitting lesson.” Through her Stree Sanman initiative, she hopes to 
 encourage women to speak out about any untoward incidents and vulgarity that they are subjected to.
 
 
 
 U. Madhan Goud, SI, who specifically handles cases related to social media, says, “Issuing a threat to a woman on social media is considered a serious crime. And there are several sections under the IPC and IT Act that is applied here, depending on the case. Once the girl comes forward with the case, we launch an investigation on multiple levels to 
 understand the gravity of the situation, the modus operandi and so on. On an everyday basis, we have at least five to six cases of girls coming to us with these sorts of crimes being committed by anyone from anonymous users to people they know, like ex-boyfriends and so on. Our request to girls is to come forward and report. We are always available to help them.”
 
 
 
 Any threat to a woman is, of course, a serious crime. Now when it comes to the law, it is a bit tricky. Before the Supreme Court squashed the Section 66 (a) under the IT Act in 2015, these type of cases were booked under that section which, stated that sending obsene messages are a punishable offence. But now, we only have Section 67 (a) which is related to uploading or circulating obsene material. So we now use the Indian Penal Code and consider such threats as blackmail or criminal intimidation. But for us to take action, women have to complain. Please do.
 
 
 
 Here are five sections under IPC that women can use to fight crimes that stalking, defamation and online abuse. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
