There's something about  . How else can one explain the fact that she's been ruling the roost in an industry where a fresh face is launched every Friday? How else could she keep her audience besotted for over a decade, when being written off after one flop is the norm here? How else could she have pipped a bevy of beauties on this list ' 39 to be precise ' and swept the maximum votes on http://www.itimes.com/polls, to emerge as the Hyderabad Times Most Desirable Woman 2016. In a chat with Hyderabad Times, Kajal shares her excitement. Excerpts.

 
 
 Extremely flattering! A big 'thank you' to all my fans who voted for me. I've been acting since 2007, and I've worked really hard to be where I am today. Every time a recognition like this comes my way, I feel blessed and humbled. 
 
 
 
 I think the word 'desirable' is very subjective. What you desire could be different from what I desire. So for me, someone who's sincere, honest, hard working, charming and has a good sense of humour, is desirable. I'm a very positive and grounded person by nature, so may be that's what everyone loves about me. And I'm a good person, who wishes good for others, so that's another quality of mine that's desirable. 
 
 
 
 For me, sex appeal and desirability are two different things. desirability is about your personality while sex appeal is all about looks. I think my sex appeal lies is my eyes ' at least, that's what I'm told. I'm a happy go-lucky-person and that shows through my eyes, I guess. And as for age, it's just a number. when you are really confident about yourself you are at your best. So it really doesn't matter whether you are 25 or 35. In fact, I think women who are hard working, go -getters and ambitious, are super sexy; age no bar.
 
 
 Meryl Streep. I find her very sexy. She's extremely comfortable in her own skin and not pretentious at all. And, she speaks her mind ' I find that very sexy!
 
 
 
 Ryan Gosling. He has super attractive looks. But more than that, I like him because he's so adorable when you see how wonderful he is with his two daughters and how much in love he is with his wife,  .
 
 
  
 Yes ' I look for integrity, loyalty and empathy in my man. Also, he has to have a good sense of humour, work hard and should be taller than me! (Laughs). But I must add, I'm single and unfortunately don't have time for anybody right now. 
 
