MALAPPURAM: Though the district has managed to record a remarkable improvement in achieving   during the past one year, the coverage of the age category of 7 to 16 still remain a herculean task for the medical authorities in the district.

 The   belonging to the age group 0-1 is 92.7% and that of 1-2 years is 91%. The total vaccination coverage of children below five years has touched 90%. But the vaccination coverage of children in the age group 7-16 is still at 86%, despite a rigorous campaign following the recent diphtheria outbreak in the district.
 
 In a review meeting held at Malappuram in July last year, the health minister K K Shylaja had announced that all children in the district would be brought under the cover of immunization within three months through a comprehensive campaign. A de tailed action plan was also was formed for this purpose. “Though we managed to bring almost 90% children below five years under the cover of immunization, we could not achieve the target for the 7-16 age group mainly due to opposition by some people,“ said R Renuka, deputy DMO of Malappuram.
 
 The religious leaders including Panakkad Hyderali Shihab Thangal, Sayyid Ibrahimul Khaleelul Bhukari Thangal, C P Ummar Sullami and Fr   had voiced their support for the vaccination campaign in the district. But it seems that the show of support did not help change the mind-set of a section of people who allege hidden agenda behind the the mass immunisation drive.
 
 The campaign was started in the backdrop of reports of death of two children due to diphtheria in the district last year. The total number of confirmed cases of diphtheria reported in the district after June 2016 has gone up to 40 and the number of suspected cases reported during the period is 263.
 
 In the backdrop of the reports regarding stiff resistance to immunization programme, a three-member team from the   (WHO) had visited the district.The team had expressed satisfaction in the immunization programmes including the anti-diphtheria campaign here.
 
 The infant mortality rate in Malappuram recorded a slight increase in the first month of this year. The rate in 2016 was 5.84% and the rate recorded in January 2017 is 6.18%.
 
