BENGALURU:   resurrected their campaign in the   second division, coasting to a 3-0 win against  , Jabalpur, in a   match at the   Stadium here.

 Hundreds of supporters who thronged the stadium to watch the home team — many of them struggling to watch the match with the authorities not arranging enough chairs in the main stand — returned jubilant as Ozone grabbed three vital points after a poor start to their campaign on Saturday which saw them surrender their lead and lose to  .
 
 For Ozone, striker Cornell Glenn remained on the injured list but head coach Bert Zuurman returned to take charge. The Dutchman used a three-man defence with U-22 player Vignesh D starting the match.
 
 For the first half hour it looked as if Ozone was battling poor form. But medio Anto Xavier cleared all such doubts scoring a brace in two minutes.
 
 After messing up three clear chances, Ozone took the lead in the 30th minute when an unmarked Xavier shot home from close after collecting a cross from Vignesh Gunashekar who had moved in through the left. Pride’s defence was exposed again the very next minute when Xavier, once again in the clear, tapped in a back pass from CS Sabeeth as he pulled away all the defenders with him to the touchline. Pride’s goalkeeper Rohan Sudhir Fasge could do nothing as Xavier, Ozone’s U-22 player, beat him with ease.
 
 Sabeeth, a former Mohun Bagan striker, was again in the thick of the action as he powered into the box in the 37th minute. This time he came up with a stinging drive which goalkeeper Rohan only managed to block. The rebound came back nicely to Vignesh G who made no mistake.
 
 The second session saw Ozone lose focus as they tried to play out time. Pride almost scored three minutes before the final whistle as Robin Chhetri drove in but the young striker’s powerful effort hit the cross bar.
 
 It was Pride’s second straight defeat and the Jabalpur side, which started with six U-22 players, face an uphill task to progress to the final round. Ozone will next take on Fateh Hyderabad in an away match on February 5. The top-2 from each of the three groups will advance to the final round.
 
 Results: In Bengaluru: Ozone Bengaluru FC: 3 (Anto Xavier 30, 31; Vignesh G 37) bt Pride Sports: 0.
 
 In Mumbai: Kenkre FC: 0 drew Fateh Hyderabad: 0.
 
 
