KOLKATA: Come May, when the Azad Hind Bagh swimming pool — popularly known as Hedua — reopens for swimmers, there will be a vigilance tower where a trained diver will keep an eye on those in the water. Death of a trainee swimmer last May has prompted  , the custodian of the swimming pool, to take such a step ahead of the beginning of the swimming season. This is one of several safety measures that KMC has adopted to prevent drowning in city pools.

  The civic body has asked the swimming clubs across the city to go for a clear demarcation of novice and advanced learners to lessen the risk of drowning for beginners. Sangita Das, a trainee swimmer, had drowned in Hedua on May 30 last year after she crossed the barrier of the beginners’ zone and entered into the eight-feet-deep advanced learners’ area. 
 
 The KMC parks department has also asked swimming clubs to employ sufficient number of trainers to be engaged in two shifts (morning and afternoon). This apart, the civic body has made it mandatory for employment of trained lifeguards in adequate numbers in all major public pools. For large swimming pools like Hedua, College Square or Paddapukur ( ), the clubs managing these pools have been told to employ at least a dozen life-guards at any point of time during training.
 
 According to the newly devised pool rules, the swimming clubs need to carry out regular rescue drills. Essential procedures need to be adopted in case of major aquatic emergency like near drowning, head or spinal injury. Rescue equipment like reaching poles, ropes or rescue tubes should be readily available in each training session. In case of the evening sessions, all major pools should be adequately lit and the swimming clubs need to ensure that all power outlets are fitted with earth leakage protection. 
 
 In case of beginners’ pools, KMC has made it mandatory to install handrails. This apart, the clubs need to ensure that a qualified person checks the quality of water every month.
 
 “We have come up with safety manuals for all large public pools under our jurisdiction. We will keep a strict vigil on whether the swimming clubs managing these pools are following these safety measures. If any clubs fail to follow these safety rules, we will be compelled to scrap all ties with it. We have recommended the same measures for the private swimming pools as well,” said  , member, mayor-in-council, overseeing the KMC parks department.
 
