PUNE:   and Junior College recently paid tribute to Saurabh Farate, killed with three other army men in an attack on an army convoy at Pampore on the Srinagar-Jammu national highway, on the occasion of Parents’ Day.

 Chairman O P Sharma presented a cheque for Rs4 lakh to Saurabh’s father Nandkumar, mother Mangal and brother Rohit, currently serving in the army.
 
 Pratap Anna Gaikwad, former director of Krishi Utpadan Bazar Samiti, Pune, and Madhav Anna Kalbhor, former vice-president, Yeshwantrao Chavan sugar factory, were present on the occasion. 
 
 RIMS bags drama bronze
 
 Tuhin Nag, Ali Kakar and Alyzae Balsara of Class IX of RIMS International School, NIBM, bagged the bronze medal at a drama competition, ‘Mix The Play’, organized by the British Council recently. The competition saw 11 schools participate, and was judged by theatre personalities Hena and Berty, and Pune Biennale director Kiran Shinde. 
 
 The students had presented digitally five scenes from William Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliet. The production was overseen by Drama and English facilitator Madhumita Banerjee.
 
 Best educationist award for Grace Pinto
 
 Grace Pinto, managing director of the Ryan International Group of Institutions, was recently presented the ‘Best Global Educationist Award 2017’ for her noteworthy contribution to the education sector. P J Kurien, deputy chairman of the Rajya Sabha, presented the award at an event organized by the Kashmir to  . The event recognized leaders from different sectors in the country. 
 
 The award was presented in the presence of Kerala high court justice Kemal Pasha, Chennai high court justice Kulashekharan, MEA undersecretary Rajesh Gawande, former Kashmir assembly speaker Mubarak Gul, Law Comission of India’s S. Sivakumar, and others. 
 
 Road safety week at VP’s NCPS
 
 The Dattawadi traffic unit conducted an interactive session on road safety at Vidya Pratishthan’s Nanded City Public School, under the guidance of police inspector Balasaheb Laad and others. Images and videos related to accidents and other consequences of traffic-rule violations were shown to students. The different traffic signs and their significance was explained. Students from nearby schools and colleges performed street plays showing the ill-effects of not adhering to traffic rules. 
 
