He may be part of an industry that thrives on publicity, but   is fiercely private. So much so, the actor, who plays the lead on daily soap ' ', is not on any social media platform. 
In this day and age, isn’t it an unwritten norm for actors to be accessible to their fans? Param doesn’t believe so. He says, “Social media platforms distract a lot. Useless forwards and updates about a certain party happening in town, the outfit a friend is wearing or his latest holiday, add no value to your life. If you are that important to someone, that person will either text you or call — you don’t need social media for that. I prefer human connect to virtual connect. Also, I am a private person and don’t believe in advertising what I do every minute. My actions and interests are my concerns alone.” 
 Though he is determined to do what he wills, Param recalls how, years ago, he faced a lot of flak from his family for one such decision. He says, “I belong to a sardar family and our religion doesn’t allow us to cut our hair. However, by the time I was 17 years old, my hair had grown really long and it was tough to maintain it. So, one day, I went ahead and cut my mane short. My parents were shocked; in fact, my father hit me several times and did not speak to me for days. My intention was not to rebel. I visit the Gurudwara and am religious, but I couldn’t handle long hair.” 
 However, Param deftly handled a lot of struggle in  , where he had gone to pursue higher studies. He recalls, “I wanted to study on my own earnings. It was really tough, but those three years turned me into a man. I washed dishes, mopped the floor at burger outlets, 
 cleaned people’s mess when they drank too much at night in pubs, lived with roommates who were perennially on drugs... basically went through the entire drill to learn that life is not a cakewalk.”
 Surprisingly, while it’s every actor’s dream to play the lead, Param is not fascinated by it. Though he has essayed the lead character twice — ' ' and now 'Ghulaam' —he explains, “While a show is about teamwork, there’s more onus on the lead actor to make a show successful. So, I start suffering from anxiety when playing the protagonist. Also, my thoughts constantly revolve around ratings… I am sure it is common for all actors.” 
 
  
  
 
