Panaji: Goa Lokayukta has found then tourism minister Dilip Parulekar guilty of “favouritism”, besides other irregularities, in the multi-crore beach cleaning scam, and has recommended that the anti-corruption branch (ACB) of the vigilance department reopen investigation in the case. It has also said that the government should consider referring the matter to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). In his recommendation sent to the government, justice P K Misra said that the ACB should reopen the investigation particularly keeping in view the possibility of conspiracy and any kickbacks. In his findings, justice Misra said the then tourism minister “had shown indulgence and favouritism” by not acting upon the recommendation made by tourism director and principal secretary (tourism), and that all facts and circumstances apparent from the records produced clearly pointed to it. The Lokayukta said the contractors — Ram Cleansers and Developers Private Limited and Bhumika Cleantech Services Private Limited — were allowed to continue working beyond the first 15 months in spite of the unsatisfactory nature of their work.  Referring to the ACB investigation, which closed the case later, the Lokayukta said that the “inquiry was not conducted properly”. Complaints into the beach cleaning scam were filed by Suraj Borkar and revenue minister Rohan Khaunte. Also, Goa Lokayukta had taken up the matter suo moto. Lokayukta has also passed strictures against the tourism department stating it should have deducted a higher amount from monthly bills so far as administrative charges and office expenses were concerned. “There is no justification as to why deductions had not been made by the department from the bills for the months of September 2014 and October 2014,” read the summary findings of the Lokayukta. There was also no justification for the department introducing the scheme of mechanical beach cleaning and scientific management of garbage without proper planning and estimates, the Lokayukta said, adding that contractors’ bills were not properly scrutinized. 