CHENNAI: Baba brothers -   and   - travelled on the same boat till the 2012 U-19 World Cup probables camp. From there on, Aparajith went into a different league altogether and Indrajith, who got his maiden call-up in the India A squad on Tuesday, fell off the radar.

 People around the duo began "comparing" the two. Aparajith was a regular in the TN Ranji side, had made it to India A team and even earned an IPL contract with the  . Indrajith, on the other hand, was slugging it out in the   first division league and at the junior BCCI tournaments.
 
 Such comparisons even created "doubts" in the mind of Indrajith as to whether he would ever make it to the first-class level. Though Indrajith felt "extremely happy" for the success of Aparajith, he admitted that he felt "disappointed" that he was behind.
 
 "I did feel lonely. People compared us and it's natural. I was the first person to be delighted for Aparajith's success. But then I was disappointed that I couldn't break through. Deep inside, I felt like it would have been nice if I had also been part of a team with Aparajith. He would go to IPL and I would be at home thinking about comparisons. Those days were very tough to handle as doubts crept into my mind about my future," Indrajith told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 Indrajith revealed even Aparajith knew about the "mental hardships" he had to deal with. "Our parents are our biggest strength. They never compared or differentiated us even though some of their friends did. Every stage was difficult for me. I had to wait for my opportunities," he said.
 
 Indrajith said that he had even thought whether being the twin of Aparajith was the reason behind him not getting into the TN team. "I did feel like that after a point in time. I'm also a human being. I was beginning to think too much on why I wasn't able to make it. But then I realised, my turn will come if I just keep my mind clear and work hard. I decided to distract myself from a lot of things and it did wonders," he added.
 
 Indrajith finally got his first big break when he was picked for the   team in 2013. After 32 first-class matches, the 22-year-old right-handed batsman has carved a name for himself as the crisis man of the team. The 2016-2017 Ranji season was his best first-class season thus far as he averaged 63.36 in 10 matches scoring 697 runs with two hundreds and five fifties.
 
 Recognising his performance this year, the national selectors have named him in the India A squad for the three-day warm-up match against Australia starting February 16. "It was a surprise. I'm excited about it. I never expected that there would be a practice match. I would definitely give my best as and when I get an opportunity," Indrajith said.
 
 
 
