NEW DELHI: The world would appear like a fairytale for US gymnast   at the moment. Appearance on the red carpet of the Golden Globes, visit to the White House to meet President Obama and a prestigious photoshoot for a sports magazine's swimsuit edition -Simone has become a `star' since winning four gold medals at the   last year.

 The beginnings for the 19-year-old   sensation were far from being a fairytale. Simone and her younger sister Adria were adopted by their maternal grandparents Ron and Nellie when the gymnast was just three because their mother was addicted to drugs and alcohol.
 
 However, she refuses to call gymnastics as an escape from her past. “Everyone makes this story sound worst than it actually is for me. I took up gymnastics because I fell in love with the sport and not as a means to escape. I have always believed that it was more important where I was going rather than where I came from,“ Simone, who has been nominated for the  , told TOI during a telephonic interaction on Thursday .
 
 “Life has definitely changed quite a lot since Rio. Everywhere I go people recognise me now. I got to visit the White House and meet President Obama. The life I am living is like a dream for every girl,“ the Texan girl said. A broken family is not the only hurdle that Simone has had to overcome in her life. A month after the Olympics, she proudly announced on Twitter that since childhood she has taken medicine for Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD).
 
 “ADHD hasn't had a major affect on my career. When I was younger it was not much of a problem because most young kids are quite distracted. However, when I decided to take up gymnastics seriously it was a hurdle because there are certain routines that require tremendous amount of concentration,“ Simone, who picked the team and the all-round gold as high points of Rio, said.
 
 Simone, who is enjoying a wellearned X'mas break with her family, also recently spoke out against `body shamers'. In her new book, `Courage to Soar: A Body in Motion, A Life in Balance', she goes into detail about the traumatising incident in 2013 when a male gymnastics coach called her fat.
 
 “I think it (swimsuit photoshoot) could make a huge impact on athletes, females as well, that you could teach them that muscles are beautiful. I think all the feedback (to the photoshoot) that we've received is all very positive in how much we are a role model for little girls who have the same muscular body builds that we do, and how we changed it this year by being a little bit more artistic,“ she said on the issue of `body shaming'.
 
 `Dipa is very exciting'
 
 Much like Simone in US, gymnast Dipa Karmakar left a lasting impression in India after the 2016 Games. Biles said she was proud that Dipa managed to create `history' in their sport. “I didn't get to speak to Dipa much but I know for a fact that back home in India she has inspired a lot of kids. It is amazing to see her make history in our sport. I think she is a very exciting talent,“ she said.
 
 
 
