A weekly column that features in a newspaper run by the students of  , is facing backlash from three   students for its content. The weekly column, ' ', which has been featuring in   since 2008 (since the newspaper's inception), gives advices on sexual health, relationships and intimacy to students from the queries that they receive from the university students. When Law Faculty students Mohit Kumar Gupta, Vikas Bhaskar and Shashi Chaurasia got to know about the weekly column in January, they first tried to contact the publication. It was when they couldn’t get through them (since they couldn’t find any information online), that they filed a complaint at the Maurice Nagar police station and later at the  , as well as to the joint-registrar of DU. 

  Mohit Kumar, one of the complainants, told us, "They are showing women in a negative light. The sketch of the woman, which features in the column is seen wearing a sari and her undergarments are visible. She is called Amma and the term in South India is referred to a motherly figure. So how can they call it (the character) the same? We accept that they can use it in a humourous way but not by making fun of the term, Amma. Plus, they are using the name of DU, which is why, we have not only filed a complaint with the police, but also with the Delhi Commission for Women and the joint-registrar of the university. Since they are using the name of the university, it shows the university in a negative light too," said Mohit. 
 
 
  
  
 
  Dhaval Gupta, the director of DU Beat told us that the column is purely fictional and is an attempt to make sex education accessible to students. "The column does not hurt anyone's feelings, whether religious or otherwise. It is only an educational column for the youngsters. The term Amma is generic in nature and used widely across India. This is just a fictional character, and is not directed towards disrespecting any region or culture. It, in no way, depicts, names or gives references to any real person. The column does not promote lascivious, obscene or questionable content. Sex Amma has always positively stood for equal rights of men and women," he said.
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
