KOLKATA: The complaint of medical negligence, which was registered at the Netaji Nagar police station on Friday, in the death of a kitten has now taken a new turn. The cops have asked Debapriya Ghosh Goswami, who had alleged that her kitten   had died hours after being administered two injections at a vet clinic, to furnish a death certificate.

 “We have asked them to complete certain procedures after which we will decide on the fate of the case,” said an officer at the police station.
 
 The “procedure” has put the complainant in a tight spot since veterinary doctors are unwilling to give a death certificate without examining the kitten that has already been buried. “I fail to understand why cops didn’t insist on the death certificate when I first went to complain. We have lost out on precious time. I am ready to show the cops the place where we buried Oliver. They can themselves do the investigation,” Debapriya said.
 
 Her husband Samujjwal seconded: “The body must have started decomposing by now. I can’t think of exhuming it and taking it over to a vet for a death certificate. I’ve been running from pillar to post requesting vets to come over to our place and check. But all of them have insisted that they will issue a certificate only if the body is taken to them,” he said.
 
 Koel Chatterjee, who runs cat crèche ‘Meow Baari’, is aware of this case. “Unlike humans, death certificates for animals are not needed for burial. I have advised Samujjwal and Debapriya to get in touch with Maneka Gandhi.”
 
 Pt  , who lost his pet on Monday and even performed a ‘shraddha’ ceremony, said he needed no death certificate to bury his dog at Nikhil Banga Kalyan Trust’s pet cemetery. “Losing a pet is like losing a family member. It is inhuman to expect owners to exhume the body of a pet,” Majumdar said.
 
 Anchor  , who lost her golden retriever on February 26, added, “I fail to understand the need for a death certificate. If cops have accepted a complaint, it is their responsibility to follow up. There is no point harassing the owner. Seeking opinion of another vet should indicate if there was any negligence.”
 
 Veterinary doctor Dr   admitted that it was difficult to get a death certificate now. “I share the grief of the owner. I also understand that it is difficult for any vet to give a certificate now. This is a very complex issue. We should have a discussion in the presence of pet owners and veterinary doctors to understand how to address this situation,” Ghosh said.
 
