NEW DELHI: With   having advocated simultaneous   and   in several of his public speeches and President Pranab Mukherjee lending him support, sufficient background is being created for the roll out of this major election makeover. While the   of India waits for the government to take more concrete legal action, it is alongside readying the new age EVM to take on the challenge.
 
  The latest avatar of the   is called ‘M3’ and the Election Commission is looking to ramp up its production ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The plans are to replace all pre 2006 EVMs with the M3- a more sophisticated machine with built in self diagnostics, minimal chances of machine failure and the ability to clamp shut the moment any tampering effort is made.
  
  The M3 comes with digital verification system coded into each machine which is necssary toe stablish contact between its two component units. This makes it absolutely tamper proof. The M1 and M2 are the older versions of the EVM with M1 being kept out of use. The first EVM was used in a 1982 by poll election and came to be used on a larger scale starting in 1992.
  
  While the EC has moved very cautiously and conservatively, having only two PSUs manufacture EVMs so far, with a simultaneous poll on the horizon, the need is being felt to ramp up the production. The EC has recently sought permission from the government to include one more PSU in the mix so the M3 can come in faster.
  
  Central Electronics Ltd in Ghaziabad could soon join Bharat Electronics Ltd (BEL) and Electronics Corporation of India, sources in the EC confirmed.
  
  The government also gave a serious indicator of its willingness to go the simultaneous poll road by sanctioning Rs 1,009 crore to the EC in December 2016 for purchase of new EVMs.
  
  A total of nine lakh M1 machines stand to be replaced- the replacement cost is estimated at Rs 2,500-3,000 crore. Orders for about 5.5 lakh M3 EVMs were placed last year with the Centre opening the purse strings for the EC’s technological upgradation. It si estimated that for a simultaneous poll scenario in 2019, 13 lakh ballot units ad 9 lakh control units would be required.
  
  The Voter-Verified Paper Audit Trail ( )- to provide feedback to the voter- that now supports the EVM will also add to the war chest being built by the EC. Rs 3,000 crore has been sanctioned for the same of the 66,000 VVPATs ordered last year, 50% have been delivered. A total of 9.5 lakh VVPATs will be required for a possible 2019 simultaneous poll. India has about one million polling stations currently and about 1.6 million EVMs In an interview to ET, CEC Nasim Zaidi said that while simultaneous polls were not “insurmountable’, sufficient lead time was necessary to ensure the logistics are in place. He had indicated that a total allocation of Rs 10,000 crore would be required to ensure the same. 
