Chandigarh: A large number of illegal openings at the Chandigarh   are giving easy access to trespassers, which not only include residents of nearby colonies but also passengers. 

 In the last nine months, the railway protection force (RPF) have registered 59 cases of trespassing under section 145 of the Railway Act and 58 of creating nuisance under section 147 of the act, but there is no change on the ground.
 
 After the recent Mumbai stampede, the railway ministry issued special instructions to the RPF and government railway police (GRP) to monitor cases of trespassing and prevent overcrowding on foot over bridges. However, the situation continue to be the same as the security staff have failed to cordon off the station from all the sides.
 
 During a visit to the railway station, it was found that residents of nearby colonies were trespassing from Panchkula to Chandigarh side not only on foot but also on their bicycles and two-wheelers without any problem. The passage constructed between platform numbers 1 and 2 to unload material from the goods train is being used by passengers to reach platform number 2 rather than taking the foot over bridge (FOB).
 
 Sources said the security staff has sent a communication to the station superintendent office that they should try to issue less number of platform tickets to commuters to control the rush. 
 
 Rajesh Rana, SHO, RPF, said they have started a joint operation along with GRP to avoid overcrowding on the foot over bridge at the station. Security staff deployed on the FOB will keep monitoring the rush during the arrival and departure of the trains, he said. The special focus of the staff on jam-packed trains like Sadbhawana Express, he added.
 
 What the act says
 
 Under section 145 of the Railway Act, a case will be registered against a passenger or commuter found trespassing at the station. The railway court can fine the passenger between Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,000 
 
 59 incidents in 9 months
 
 Category | Cases | Fine 
 
 Trespassing | 59 | Rs 13,500
 
 Nuisance | 58 | Rs 19,500 
 
 Data from Jan till till Sept
 
 Suggestions to avoid stampedes 
 
 Another foot over bridge should be constructed which can divide the rush on platform
 
 Announcement of change of arrival of train should not be made at the last minute 
 
 The station should be cordoned off so people cannot trespass
 
 
