NEW DELHI: For the better part of this season,   were the most balanced side of them all. They emerged as tremendous chasers, were unstoppable inside the Powerplay and their move of making Sunil Narine open the batting achieved better results than anyone would have expected. When in flow, KKR couldn't put a foot wrong. Thrice they chased down a total in excess of 180 and defended a modest total of 131 by dismantling Royal Challengers Bangalore for 49. All that was work in progress and KKR seemed to be taking consistent strides towards the Playoffs.

 But the business end of the tournament is where it all started falling apart for the two-time   champions. As Narine the opener flourished, it indirectly had an adverse effect on the team. He kept the opening spot even when Chris Lynn returned after an injury, and that pushed their best batsman  , and the next best Robin Uthappa a spot or two down, and that disturbed the one element that made them stand out from the remaining seven franchises, balance. A pedestrian batting performance against Mumbai Indians in the second Qualifier ended their impressive campaign.
 
 
  
  16 
  9 
  7 
  +0.64 
  16
 
 
 
 
 KKR put every franchise on note when in their opener against Gujarat Lions, not only did they successfully gun down a target of 184, but did so by romping home by 10 wickets and 31 balls to spare. That began an upward movement for Gambhir and his men, after which the side won six out of next eight matches. During this period, KKR registered tremendous numbers with the bat. In the Powerplays, they went hammer and tongs with Narine launching an all-out assault on almost everything thrown at him. KKR's run-rate inside the first six overs was so impressive that it touched 9.5 with a record number of fours: 117. They also registered the highest IPL score inside the Powerplay when they put up 105 against RCB in the second outing between the two sides. KKR was the only team giving Mumbai Indians a run for their money at the top.
 
 
 
 
 From twice retaining the top spot to almost not qualifying for the Playoffs, KKR fumbled in the business end of the round-robin stage, where they could notch just one win from five games, and this gave breathing space to Rising Pune Supergiant and King XI Punjab to almost rise from the ashes. The shuffling of the batting order had a negative impact on Gambhir as he seemed to be struggling for runs in the second half. The good doings of the first-half however, was so useful, that despite losing to Mumbai in their final league game, KKR made it to the Playoffs. As the knockouts arrived, there were injury concerns for Uthappa and Manish Pandey. They tried to fill in with Colin de Grandhomme, but that never quite materialised. If on one hand, KKR were masters of the Powerplay, in the slog overs, they couldn't quite get going. Their bowlers also had the third worse economy rate and leaked almost 500 runs between overs 16 to 20.
 
 
 
 
 Gambhir had lifted two IPL titles with KKR, and he looked pretty much on course to making it three before KKR lost steam. His belief in Narine gave the West Indian the license to go after the bowling, even if that meant him batting lower. Gambhir remained alert to situations, intelligently and judiciously rotating his bowlers according to the need of the match. Case in point: Everytime MS Dhoni walked in to bat, Gambhir would operate his best spinners and that would stifle the run flow. Same was the case with Rohit Sharma. 
 
 
 
 
 His own form concerned, Gambhir led KKR from the front, scoring 498 runs, only next to David Warner's tally of 641 runs in the tournament. Despite batting occasionally at No. 3 and 4, it was Gambhir's calmness in the middle that provided the side affirmation. In the rain-truncated Eliminator against Sunrisers Hyderabad, where KKR needed to score 48 in six overs, at 12/3 the start wasn't the most ideal. But Gambhir kept his cool, and converted the tricky chase into a successful one. If this was the last time he is to lead KKR, Gambhir fittingly went out on a high.
 
 
 
 
 Losing Andre Russell was a big blow ahead of the tournament and KKR were left to fill the allrounder void. Yusuf Pathan was the perfect candidate but he failed to deliver. With the bat, he managed just 143 runs from 15 games at an average of 17.87. With the ball, he wasn't utilized much and bowled just four overs with one wicket to show. His only contribution was a 39-ball 59, where he put a 110-run stand with Pandey to wrest the advantage back to KKR, who from 21/3 went on to win the match.
 
 
 
 
 KKR were strong title contenders, and until the fumble heading into the Playoffs, they lived up to the reputation. KKR majorly lost out due to a few concerning spots, and those prevailed throughout. Missing a genuine allrounder, batsmen being shuffled and the lack of scoring runs in the death is what cost them dearly. That being said, KKR had an amazing run, and showed once again why they are one of only three teams to have lifted the IPL title twice.
 
