LUCKNOW: Speaker-elect of the state assembly   has created a record by emerging as a consensus candidate of all the parties as even leaders of opposition and   filed their   in his favour.

 A prolific writer, Dixit has penned more than 50 books and is a master on constitutional and legal matters. He also has a vast knowledge of history and all religions of the world.As a journalist who writes 19 articles every month in various newspapers and magazines, Dixit, at a very young age, rebelled against the caste system and his   by eating with an 'outcaste' at his Lauuwwa village in Purwa of Unnao district.
 
 When the elders pressured Dixit to be back into the mainstream of the family, he threatened to disown them but not compromise with his beliefs and values and continued to fight against the caste system. His commitment to a casteless society and campaign against religious orthodoxy has earned him the sobriquet “Kabir of Unnao“. Although his achievements in political life are colossus, the six-time MLA and twotime Cabinet minister could raise just one modest house in his 50-year-old career. His integrity and statesmanlike conduct has made him popular across the spectrum. It was on display in amble measures when Leader of Opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary and all other rival parties, including Independent MLA Raghuraj Pratap Singh were present when he filed his nomination on Wednesday. TOI caught up with him at his Darul Shafa house minutes after the nomination to talk about his priorities and plans to run India's biggest House.Excerpts...
 
 
 
 It's just the opposite for me. I enjoy an excellent rapport with leaders of all political parties. Today, they have all named me as their candidate.With the blessings from the elders -even if in the Opposition -and support from the younger members, I would try to involve every one to run the House smoothly and for the welfare of the state.
 
 
 
 
 I would quote here the first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru and the BJP's first PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee who had strongly advocated for a good space for a responsible Opposition, which is the strength of the democracy. A weak Opposition is not good for the democracy.
 
 
 
 
 I know that there is a provision in the Constitution to take punitive actions against such members. But, I personally feel all the members represent their constituency and aspirations of the people. Protest is their legitimate right.
 
 
 
 
 The CM (Adtiya Nath Yogi) has shown a keen interest in running the House for a maximum number of days. It is in the interest of the state and the state machinery. I feel that the past practices of running away from the House would not be witnessed this time. The more the sessions of House, there would be more accountability on the state machinery. Now, janata has become very aware and their representatives can't overlook them and behave irresponsibly.
 
