NAGPUR:  , Mumbai, is planning an outreach centre in the city to cater to patients from across Vidarbha and Central India. The centre aims to ensure 70% of the treatment and surgeries take place in the city, ensuring patients are not required to visit Mumbai. Union minister for road transport and highways   is supporting the project by identifying land in the city. Tata Trusts is also likely to enter into an agreement with the cancer hospital being planned at   (GMCH) to train surgeons.

 Adviser to Gadkari Dr Viral Kamdar told TOI, “Tata is planning to create such centres in various parts of Maharashtra. They are ready to invest about Rs30 crores for the centre here.”
 
 Dr Kamdar said, “The centre will require 20,000 sq feet. Currently, we are identifying land which can be given to them on lease. The three-acre land at Isolation Hospital near Imambada can be considered. Or, this centre can also be located in North Nagpur, since a cancer hospital is already being planned at GMCH, which is in South Nagpur.”
 
 He said, “When it comes to cancer, Tata Memorial Hospital is known as the first in the whole country to incorporate all the latest standard protocol followed across the world, and hence it remains the most updated.” He also said, “The centre will be in synch with the standards of Tata Trusts. It will have all the basic facilities that hospitals need, and will try that 70% of the treatment and surgery is performed in the city itself.”
 
 “With all the updated facilities, at affordable rate, the centre is going to be a boon for the city. Talking of cancer, the middle class suffers the most due to the high treatment cost, since they don’t have Below Poverty Line (BPL) cards to avail government schemes nor are they financially sound enough to afford it,” he said.
 
 Simultaneously, Tata Trusts is likely to sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the cancer hospital being planned at GMCH. “Tata Memorial Hospital is supposed to be the best in the country with good doctors. We will try that surgeons from cancer hospital are trained at Tata’s hospital in Mumbai as visiting doctors for a few months or a year, to get exposure to the latest treatment,” said Dr Kamdar. As part of the same agreement, we will also be roping in their surgeons to perform surgeries at (GMCH) cancer hospital in the initial years, he added.
 
 Head of radiotherapy department at GMCH Dr Krishna Kamble appreciated the move and said, “If such a centre is being planned it should be for the poor and downtrodden.” He added, “At the same time, there should not be any duplication in facility, since a cancer hospital is already being planned in the city at GMCH.” 
 
 
