PANAJI
 Not so very long ago, there was a   team called   and they were good. Really good. They won the   twice, won every conceivable trophy in India and almost always had the highest scorer.
 
  Then, the All India Football Federation (AIFF) decided Churchill had no place in the I-League because of their failure to fulfil the club licensing criteria, leaving them out for two painful years. They are now back in the I-League – re-instated by AIFF – but they are yet to capture our imagination like they did in the past.
  
  Things, as you can see, are different now. Churchill Brothers are without a point from their first two games in I-League and despite their impressive overall record against  , the visitors are more likely to be anguished if they don’t full points at the Tilak Maidan in   on Wednesday.
  
  From the 34 matches between these two teams, Churchill have won 14, while East Bengal have registered victories in 11 matches. Nine matches have ended without a result.
  
  “I will be happy with three points,” East Bengal coach Trevor Morgan told reporters during the pre-match media briefing. Asked specifically if a point should be good enough from an away match against Churchill, Morgan paused for a moment and then reiterated his demand for three points.
  
  “It won’t be easy for us. I saw Churchill’s first game against   and I thought they were unlucky not to get a point. They conceded a late goal against Mumbai (FC). They can be looking to win their first game and we have to make sure it’s not against us. We are expecting nothing less than a very difficult game,” said Morgan.
  
  Just like Morgan, nobody has any doubt that Churchill are unlucky to remain rooted at the bottom of the league table without a point. They could have walked away with a point against Mohun Bagan and should have got at least a point against Mumbai FC.
  
  “It’s disappointing after playing well in both games. You can see from the fact that in both the games, our player was Man-of-the-Match. It’s just that our finishing and result didn’t go our way,” said coach Alfred Fernandes.
  
  With Kyrgyzstan midfielder Bektur Talgat now available, Fernandes will be encouraged, although, according to team sources, the central midfielder will only play in the second half. Fulgancio Cardozo and Richard Costa are likely to be drafted into the starting eleven, while Agnelo Colaco could also be handed a starting role after impressive showing as a substitute.
  
  “It’s difficult (for us) against East Bengal. They are one of the top sides in India but that doesn’t guarantee them a victory. We are putting in all our efforts to get three points,” said Fernandes.
