MYSURU: While the Centre is keen to focus on the digital economy in the aftermath of   of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 currency, bankers are trying to sell cashless transactions among people, especially from the rural areas. At Suttur, where the   is on, JSS Mahavidyapeetha has set up booths to deconstruct the idea and help the villagers get a hands-on experience. Hundreds are thronging the booth opened exclusively to create awareness about cashless transactions.

 On Wednesday, more than 1,000 people coming to the annual Suttur Jathra mahotsava made use of the kiosk to update themselves on cashless transactions. The organizers have set up seven such centres, especially where there are big crowds. At each kiosk, 15-20 trained people, especially students from JSS Polytechnic, are engaged in raising awareness among the people. A majority of the people, especially from rural areas who were not very aware about the system and found it difficult to transact, felt happy after coming to know about the simple processes involved in cashless transactions. 
 
 Mahendra Kumar, a farmer from Halaganchi village of Nanjangud taluk who had come for a jathra on Wednesday, made use of the facility. He told TOI, “I didn’t have much knowledge about cashless transactions. But after spending 15 minutes at this centre, I learnt a lot. The trainers, apart from training us about how to transact over the mobile phone, also taught us how to link our Aadhaar cards. Most of the people in our village are not aware about cashless transactions. Such awareness is needed in rural areas. Initially when Prime Minister   announced the ban on Rs 1,000 and Rs 5,00 notes, people struggled a lot to get money, but now things are getting back to normal. I have taken a few leaflets which are in Kannada and will try to create awareness in my village.” 
 
 Shesha Prasad, who demonstrated this to Mahendra Kumar, said, “Mahendra didn’t have any idea about the new facilities, but was smart enough and managed to learn the process in just 15 minutes. We taught him how to transact through an ordinary mobile phone.” 
 
 KR Lokesh, a lecturer at JSS said, “On Wednesday itself, more than 200 people visited one of the six   set up at the exhibition. There are seven such kiosks at crowded places, where more than 1,000 people learnt about mobile transactions. More than 30-40 police personnel who were confused about double accounts too made use of the facility.”
 
 CM VISITS DIGITAL BANKING STALL
 
 Chief minister Siddaramaiah visited the digital banking stall and interacted with the financial literacy counsellors of various banks about the way in which banks are reaching out to the poor to open bank accounts and extend financial assistance. He also enquired about the number of ATMs operating in Mysore district and the accounts opened by banks. KV Ramanath, financial literacy counsellor with the  , answered his queries.
 
