 belongs to that group of players in world tennis who have kept the Big-four -  , Andy Murray,   and   - under pressure. Ask the Federer fans and many of them still haven't come to terms with the Croat beating the Swiss master in the US Open semifinal in 2014. 

 "Oh you guys are Federer fans? Yeah, thanks for reminding me, that was the best match I have played," World No. 6 Cilic, who was the Guest Sports Editor of TOI on Tuesday, said with a smile and a fist-pump. He went on to beat Kei Nishikori in the 2014 final a day after thrashing Federer in straight sets to win his first and only Slam till now. Cilic, a two-time winner of the Chennai Open, is currently in Chennai to take part in the event. 
 
 "I was still a rookie when I first came here in 2007 and this is my seventh visit. I enjoy coming back here," he said, settling down in the TOI office. During the course of a lively interaction, he opened up on a range of topics. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I won a couple of times till 2010. In 2013 I also played okay but nothing special. I did play in Brisbane before the Australian Open after that but this year I felt it would be good to be here, get acclimatized and be in a place where I have always played great tennis. The field here is not as strong as the one in Brisbane, still the quality of players is always good and that's what I need in the first week of the year.
 
 
 
 
 Just considering the style of play and the level, may be in the US Open in 2014 I produced my best tennis over the period of those two weeks. Comparing it to the last six months of 2016, I felt I was more consistent and beating top guys like Novak Djokovic, Kei Nishikori gave me a lot of confidence. It's a thing I was looking for in my career - having consistency against top players and doing so on a regular basis.
 
 
 
 
 Even in some matches earlier, I was close to winning but wasn't able to do so. Playing him so many times, I tried to work different tactics and it did pay off this time. Definitely, it gives me a lot of confidence heading into the new season, knowing well that we would play each other a few times. That win will be at the back of my mind and if I am playing well, then it will definitely help me beat him.
 
 
 
 
 In 2016, I just produced one quarterfinals performance in Grand Slam. Obviously, the performance in Grand Slam. The focus for me would be to do well in the Grand Slams this year and I usually like to play Slams and enjoy the best-of-five set format. I am quite well-ranked and my aim will be to stay there and keep challenging the top guys.
 
 
 
 
 Those were the first matches in my career where I lost after being two sets up. I have to give credit to the players I was playing against. The matches against Roger and Del Potro were quite close and I don't think I made too many mistakes. I don't think there is any mental issue that I need to work on; it's more about keeping the focus going in the match. The match against Roger was very crucial for me last year. Though I lost, it helped me become a little bit mentally stronger. I had three match points and it was quite tough to lose from there, but it did give me a lot of positives.
 
 
 
 
 (Laughs) Are you guys Federer fans? Yes, it definitely was the best match of my career con definitely was the best match of my career considering all the things. In the first semifinal before that, Kei had beaten Novak and even Roger was feeling that he had more chances against Kei than against Novak. In the semis, when I started playing, I was feeling great on court. Considering that I had never beaten him and was also playing the US Open semis for the first time and the crowd was getting behind him on that big stage, it was great that I could control all those things and get that victory. Yes, it was the best win of my career -thank you very much for asking!
 
 
 
 
 I think it's quite a turnaround for both of them in their careers. Both have been ranked at the top for so long, but this time they are going to be challenging themselves because there is a group of players in front of them. It will be interesting to see how they react. All their careers they have been able to handle pressure week after week. They would definitely come to the top again with an extra push.
 
 
 
 
 Maybe yes, maybe no. The thing separating the top four players - Roger, Novak, Rafa and Andy - was the consistency. Now, Stan in the last two years has been playing really well. The rest of us, we have been up and down with the results. It's upon us to get to the next level and produce results week after week. If somebody is able to hit a new level with his game and mindset, then it's going to be possible. If players are up and down with their form, then it's going to be difficult.
 
 
 
 
 That's where the best guys are so good. Even when things aren't going their way, they are able to come up with Plan B. They always find newer ways -be it playing defensively or going on the offensive - in order to win week after week. No one is capable of playing his top level of tennis for more than 2-3 years. The best of the players will tell you that there are 3-4 weeks in a year where they are at the top and other weeks they are looking to find solutions to their problems on court. That's the crucial thing.
 
 
 
 
 Goran has obviously been a great influence right from my younger days. I then connected with Bob Brett and worked with him for so many years but Goran was always around. Then I was with Goran and I was able to get the victory in the US Open and that was definitely something big. Goran played a huge role but I can't take away the mark left by Bob since I have worked with him since I was a kid.
 
 
 
 
 Maybe it's their experience of being in the extreme pressure situations in Grand Slams. It can be in the smaller details where you come to the Grand Slam semifinal and you find yourself anxious and they are giving you advice. From my own experience with Goran, I can say that the fact that they have been there, done that... it helps you stay more relaxed.
 
 
 
 
 Absolutely, the top guys are prepared extremely well with their tactics and they read the game very well. I have been playing my entire career and I haven't met two same players I have played against.
 
 
 
 
 They all are different in the way they play. May be, Roger is different from all of them and plays quite an aggressive style and is able to do different things quicker than the others. But when you are playing against Andy, Novak and Rafa - they are always playing the right away and are constantly changing. On TV, it may seem different but on court they would be putting you in positions where your weaknesses get exposed.
 
 
 
 
 For me, it has to be Novak just because of the style of play. We have a similar style but he is little bit quicker on the court and is more consistent on his returns. It was difficult for me to expose weaknesses in his play, but I was able to do that in the last match I played against him.
 
 
 
 
 The next one in line is Borna Coric. He is supremely talented and showing big potential. I am sure he will do whatever it is necessary to be in the top 10. He is dedicated to tennis, a big professional and that's a great part. From the ladies side, we have Ana Konjuh, she is a huge talent. I am not sure if she knows how big a talent she is. I think she is definitely capable of breaking into the top 10 of the women's rankings. So it's going to be quite interesting times for Croatian tennis. We also have a few young players but they are far, far from the top.
 
 
 
 
 I think so because it's just a matter of how motivated, how determined she is to push herself. She has definitely showed during her career that she is a fighter and always performing at big events. I think it will be interesting to see how she performs and whether she reaches the level she was at when at the top.
 
 
 
 
 You have to have the mentality of a champion whether you are at practice or at the gym or at the court or even if you are running. You need to push yourself and give your 100 per cent. Nobody knows what your 100 percent is if you don't know. You have to just find the balance for yourself. When I was 18 or 19, I didn't know what I know now. With experience you get that -for a youngster it's always challenging because the game is always improving. You need to push yourself all the time because everyone is high quality at the top.
 
 
 
 
 I don't know. I don't know how they practice. From my own experience, during training when the coach tells me to do one exercise I am always trying to do that 100 percent and challenge myself. The coach doesn't need to tell me to go, go and go.
 
 
 
 
 The foundation has just started. We launched it before Wimbledon in 2016. That was the period of building a team and this year we will be looking to do more work. I am open to global help and I know what I have been through in my career. I didn't have the best options to practise but I was able to chase my dream. Many kids in the world don't even have the basics. Now, I am in a public job of playing tennis and lot of people know me, so if I can address the issues and give something back, it will be satisfying.
 
 
 
 
 I follow football and do follow Croatian players. That's something I always do. But for me, the - that's something I always do. But for me, the idol has always been Kaka. In his career, he showed great charisma and is a very humble, dedicated to sport and was always performing well on big stages. That's why I always liked him.
 
 
 
 
 AC Milan - it will always be so.
 
