KOLKATA: Move over chariots and open-hooded vehicles for poll campaigns. Rights crusader   has been cycling across the length and breadth of Manipur to campaign for her newly-floated People’s Resurgence and Justice Alliance party. 

 Kolkata director Pavel, who shot to fame with ‘Babar Naam Gandhiji’, was pleasantly surprised when his camera captured Chanu’s unique campaign trail for his upcoming documentary.
 
 The first phase of polling in Manipur is on March 4. Pavel has already been to Manipur at least on three occasions to film the leader for the documentary, tentatively titled ‘White Night Dark Night’. 
 
 “When I told her I wanted to shoot a documentary on her, she gave me a condition. That was in December. No one else can play her character if I have to recreate certain incidents. I agreed. It will take at least 4-5 years for me to complete the documentary. But Sharmilaji doesn’t really care about how long it will take,” Pavel said.
 
 That Chanu’s campaign would be different from that of other parties isn’t unexpected. “Contrary to other mainstream parties that have their own election coffers, PRJA has floated a crowdfunding campaign, Ten4Chang. Those who support her have been donating generously. I was there when this campaign was launched and became the first person to donate Rs 500 to it,” Pavel said.
 
 However, Chanu hasn’t asked for any royalty to allow Pavel to make the documentary. “She has very simple livi-ng. I have seen her lying down on a mat and keeping her clothes in a plastic tub. It’s the cause that matters to her. However, I don’t see her winning this year’s elections. A win or loss in polls will not dent her image,” Pavel said.
 
 Shooting the documentary has allowed Pavel to rediscover the Iron Lady of Manipur in more ways than one. “This is a lady who was on an epic fast for 16 years. I was surprised when I found the energy she has to cycle across the state for her campaign. Sometimes, we find it difficult to follow her in our car.” 
 
 One day, Pavel asked Chanu how she cycles as long as 50km. “She had cycled as far as Moirang. She broke into a smile and said: ‘I love cycling’. Sometimes, she stops midway and talks to people.” 
 
 Working on the documentary hasn’t been easy in Manipur. “Once, we had gone to have paan in a local shop when there was a huge bomb blast. We literally ran for our lives from there,” Pavel said.
 
 Asked if he had spoken to Chanu about her partner  , he said: “I am planning a long interview with her. This portion will definitely be in my documentary.” The director has also met Chanu’s family, including her brother Irom Singhajit. “He hasn’t said anything in favour of her decision to contest the polls. However, he hasn’t said anything against her either,” Pavel said. 
 
