MUMBAI: A 42-year-old   resident fractured three of her ribs and suffered lacerations to her liver after she fell into an   at Kalina in Santacruz (East) last Friday. As there were no street lights on the stretch, she could not see the gaping drain that lined a housing society. The couple was visiting some relatives at Kalina for dinner. 

 Jennifer Davar, the victim of civic   who is currently recuperating in a hospital, has demanded that the   cover all drains to avoid such grievous accidents in future, especially during rains.
 
 When asked why the drain was not covered, BMC officials told TOI: “We keep inner roadside drains open as this makes the cleaning exercise easier.” 
 
 Ruzbeh Davar, the victim’s husband, said, “We pay our taxes on time and don’t expect this from the BMC. My sons, aged 13 and nine, are traumatized by this incident. My elder son’s exams are on at the moment.” The children were not with them when the accident took place.
 
 The couple had parked their car close to the drain outside Diamond Baby building at Kalina where their relatives reside. Only portion of the drain was visible to them as the rest was covered with plants by residents for beautification purpose. As the car was parked diagonally, Jennifer tried to get into the passenger seat when she fell into the open drain.
 
 “It was pitch dark and I was holding something in my hand. I was going to open the door when I fell right inside the drain,” said Jennifer. Ruzbeh was already in the car. Jennifer said, “I began to call out to my husband for help but I heard him start the car instead. I then began to shout out his name to attract his attention.” Ruzbeh said he heard his wife’s faint voice but was unable to see her. He rushed out of the car and realized that she had fallen into the drain. He called his relatives who helped him pull her out. She was admitted to a private hospital in Parel.
 
 In some cases over the past few years, the   has awarded compensation while holding municipal agencies liable for being negligent or for dereliction of duty in maintaining civic amenities. While there is no specific law for granting damages, lawyers say a petition can be filed.
 
