THRISSUR: The management of the Nehru College of Engineering and Research Centre, Pambadi has decided to suspend three staff of the college, including the vice principal, in the backdrop of the widespread protests over the suicide of the engineering student Jishnu Pranoy. 

 P Krishna Das, chairman and managing trustee of the Nehru College of Educational and Charitable Trust, said apart from vice principal M K Sakthivel, assistant professor of the mechanical engineering department, C C Praveen, who was the invigilator in the examination hall where Jishu was appearing for the examination and PRO   have also been suspended, pending enquiry.
 
 He said the college management had constituted a three-member panel to conduct an internal inquiry into the circumstances that led to the suicide of Jishnu. Prof P Sebastian, who is the principal of the Nehru Academy of Law, Ottappalam, is the convener of the probe team.   of the Jawaharlal College of Engineering and Technology, Ottappalam and Sudhir Marar of the Nehru College of Engineering and Research Centre, Pambadi are the other two members of the panel.
 
 The panel has been asked to submit the probe report before Friday. When contacted, Prof Sebastian said the panel hoped to submit the report on Thursday itself. "We are finalising the report and it should be ready by tomorrow," Sebastian said.
 
 Krishna Das said the management had initially thought of asking three staff who were facing criticisms to go on leave. But the inquiry panel suggested that they should be kept out, that is why they had been suspended, pending enquiry. He also disclosed that the suspension order was issued two days ago.
 
 Krishna Das said the college management was willing to extend all cooperation with any form of inquiry into the death of Jishnu.
 
 He said the management wanted to reopen the college at the earliest and appealed to the parents, students, teachers, and staff as well as the people of the area to create an atmosphere conducive for the reopening.
 
 Replying to questions he said the warden of the ladies hostel of the college was receiving various forms of threats, and that is why they had suggested that the students vacate the hostel.
 
 Meanwhile, the members of the special investigation team probing the death of Jishnu visited the college on Thursday. The new team headed by Irinjalakkuda ASP Kiran Narain took over the investigation on Wednesday evening.
 
 
