MUMBAI: About 1200 resident doctors from Mumbai have been served show-cause notices on Wednesday for failing to resume work for the third consecutive day. Both the state and the corporation have said more punitive actions will follow, including suspension, if the mass leaves continue.
 
 Despite being reprimanded by the  , the students have remained resolute to continue the mass absence. On Wednesday, medical teachers also threatened to join in the strike and are likely to give a notice to their respective authorities. The medical services at the 18 public medical colleges, which are being run by the senior faculty members, will come to a grinding halt if they too strike work. 
  
 Over 4000 resident doctors in Maharashtra have stayed away from work since the last three days after two of their colleagues were beaten up in Dhule and Mumbai. The Dhule doctor was badly injured and is feared to have suffered severe damage in one eye. 
  "Students will not return to campuses till they feel their safety is assured. Many promises have been made to us year after year but assaults have not gone down. Doctors are scared for their life and it will have an impact on patient care eventually," said one of the resident doctors on strike, adding that the corporation and the state were directed by the court in June last year to implement the pass system and restrict the number of relatives to two. "Nine months have passed but there is no sign of implementation," the student said.
 
  The medical community was also upset that the judiciary and the government took such a stern stand against the students rather than holding the authorities accountable for non-implementation of security measures. "Doctors are expected to keep working in an environment of terror, while others get z-plus security even if they receive a threat call. Is that fair on students?," questioned another senior doctor. Another doctor said that resident doctors constitute only 30-40% of a hospital's workforce. "Why should the services be crippled? Where are the senior doctors? Why can't they run the OPDs and conduct surgeries? The system is overdependent on resident doctors, who are merely PG students," said a second year resident. 
  
 Sources said that the   and the   are likely to throw their weight behind the student doctors. "The help could also be in the form of funds so that they can hire senior counsel," said a source. Both the doctor associations did not confirm anything at this point. Dr Pravin Shingare, head of   (DMER) said that it is a wrong notion that the state has done nothing. "Over the past five years, the strength of security has been increased from 500 to 1200 across Maharashtra's medical colleges. More than 1100 CCTVs have been installed. Let the students tell us what more they want, we will give them. But, they must resume work and not let the patients suffer," he told TOI. 
 
