GUWAHATI: In what could set off a chain reaction in the  , NSCN(I-M) general secretary   has said the framework agreement signed with the Centre two years ago recognizes NSCN(I-M)'s demand for   of all   in the region. 

 "  had consultative meetings with the people on talks consecutively for eight times. The historic framework agreement recognizes the unique history, identity, sovereignty and territories of the Nagas. It also recognizes the legitimate right of the Nagas to integration of all Naga territories," Muivah said in his address to NSCN-IM cadres at Camp Hebron, the group's headquarters in Nagaland, on its '38th Republic Day' on Tuesday. 
 
 This is the first time that Muivah has spelt out the crux of the hitherto closely guarded framework agreement, which was the key issue in the just concludd assembly election in neighbouring Manipur. Should the Centre agree to integration of Naga-inhabited areas to carve out a 'Greater Nagalim' outside Nagaland, neighbouring Manipur stands to lose more than 80% of its geographical area.
 
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his campaign speech in Imphal last month, had assured the people of Manipur of the Naga peace deal not contain anything that can harm Manipur's territorial integrity. Union home minister Rajnath Singh also made the same assurance to voters of Manipur. Muivah is a Naga from Ukhrul district of Manipur.
 
 BJP now heads a colaition government in Manipur in collaboration with the Nagaland-based Naga People's Front.
 
 Assam and Arunachal Pradesh also has Naga inhabitants within their territories. The NSCN(I-M)'s 'Greater Nagalim' map also includes parts of Myanmar bordering Nagaland on its east.
 
 Muivah said, "The political concept of NSCN is rooted in sovereign state and government....The framework agreement will give the Nagas maximum sovereign power to grow into developed political people and it will also strengthen the security of India."
 
 He added, "The agreement does not betray the principle. It is one of the strong foundations for an amicable solution for the Nagas at this given point of time, rejection of which will take the Nagas back far behind others. The framework agreement will safeguard the present and the future of the Nagas." 
 
 
