NEW DELHI: North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Tuesday disbursed the salary for December to group C and D employees and sanitation workers to stop them from going on an indefinite strike. A senior finance department official said that Rs 230 crore was disbursed to the zones to pay the  .

 Sanjay Dutt Kundiya, chief of  , which represents 22,000-odd sanitation workers of north corporation, said, “Some of the employees received salary for December today. We have been told that the rest will get paid on Wednesday.” He added that most of the employees are poor and non-payment of salaries threatens the survival of their families.
 
 On Monday, Rajendra Mewati, the general secretary of  , had announced that most employees of north corporation would go on a strike from Tuesday due to non-payment of salaries.
 
 Mewati led dozens of sanitation workers to stage a protest in Rohini on Tuesday to demand immediate disbursement of salaries. “The protest was against Delhi government’s step-motherly treatment of north corporation. The government released Rs 119 crore to east corporation after their workers went on strike, but it did not bother to release funds for us,” he said.
 
 Coincidently, Delhi government released Rs 218 crore to north corporation on Tuesday. “The money was used to pay salaries of all group C and D employees, including some group B workers (nurses and para-medical staff),” said an official.
 
 Standing committee chairman Parvesh Wahi said, “We have released the salaries and are constantly pursuing with the government for release of our dues. We are trying hard to avoid strikes. We have even requested the south corporation mayor to release our rent dues. We are also in talks with DDA to pay our pending amount. We are looking at all sources of revenue to ensure that salaries are paid on time and there is no interruption in work.”
 
 North corporation needs Rs 75 crore to pay the remaining group A and B group employees. “This week the corporation is expecting Rs 35 crore from transfer duty with which salary payments would be made. They may also get Rs 5 crore from toll tax,” said a source.
 
 
