AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has officially estimated that there are 4,500 potholes in the city. No wonder then that Ahmedabad roads these days evoke battlefield trenches from World War I. On Monday evening, the AMC's engineering department said that of the 2,600km road network in the city, 202km has been completely washed away -this is almost the distance between Ahmedabad and Vadodara and back. But the AMC said that contractors have been asked to pay for just 18km of damaged roads.

 “Only 18km of roads have been brought under the defect-liability period for which contractors must pay, while the remaining 184km will be repaired using taxpayers' money,“ said a senior AMC official. This explains why for the past five years, the AMC, to favour contractors, has been putting its weight behind reducing the defect-liability period (warranty period) from five years to three years, claiming that the   roads and buildings department has similar tender conditions. Our broken roads expose the nexus between politicians and contractors -colossal amounts of money is to be made from road resurfacing and pothole contracts.
 
 It appears that those who compromise on the quality of construction don't fear even Gods.The   road resurfaced in June for the Lord Jagannath Rath Yatra collapsed into rubble after a few spells of rain.Moreover, recently patched roads -for instance, the Akhbarnagar Circle road repaired under the supervision of mayor Gautam Shah -have turned to dust. In the city, close to 28,000 sq m of roads need patchwork worth Rs 74 lakh in the first phase.Raw material for 22,000 sq m of patchwork is being prepared. “Over the past four years, contractors avoided submitting final bills for 85% of the road stretches, which absolves the AMC assistant city engineers of all responsibilities of filing a road quality report,“ the AMC official said. “According to conditions, contractors get paid 95% of their bills while they let go of the 5% deposit. The deposit was 12% seven years ago.“
 
 Standing committee chairman Praveen Patel still feels that enough has been done by issuing 55 show-cause notices to contrac tors for just 18km of road repairs against the 202km damaged.“Strict action will be taken against officers and contractors responsible for the recent road breakages,“ he said.
 
 
 
 
 After three relatively dry days, following the week-long torrential rains, many parts of the city received showers again on Monday evening.On Monday, the afternoon was extremely humid and rains finally fell by the evening. The showers, which made the weather pleasant across Ahmedabad, was restricted to the western parts, the outskirts and a few eastern parts of the city.The weather department has predicted rain and thundershowers on Tuesday as well. The humidity for most of Monday afternoon was as high as 89%.Relief came in the evening when areas like Satelite, Vastrapur, Judges Bungalows Road, Ashram Road, Navrangpura and Paldi received showers.According to the State Emergency Response Centre of the Gujarat revenue department, Ahmedabad district had received 81.14% of its seasonal average rainfall till Monday. According to the   (IMD), Gujarat, rainfall occurred at many places in the Gujarat region and at a few places in the SaurashtraKutch region.This rainfall occurred due to the morning's upper air cyclonic circulation over Saurashtra, Kutch and adjoining areas.
 
 
 
 Such criminal waste of public money on roads should not be tolerated any more. That just 18km of the 202km of damaged roads come under the warranty, speaks about the politician-contractor nexus. Road construction should ideally halt by mid-May, instead of June 30 as is the case now. The state government should form an expert body on the lines of the Standing Technical Advisory committee (STAC) consisting of engineers and experts from civil engineering institutes to test and certify new roads, based on which payments should be released.
 
 
