NAGPUR: Sandip Joshi, four-time corporator and a close friend of chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, is all set to become   leader in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation ( ). The BJP’s 108   led by Joshi will register the party’s name with divisional commissioner Anup Kumar and stake claim for mayor and deputy mayor’s posts on Tuesday.

 The BJP’s core committee meeting was held on Monday. BJP sources told TOI the decision has been taken to appoint four mayors and deputy mayors instead of the normal two over the next five-year tenure. “The 108 corporators were elected from the BJP. All segments among corporators will have to be given justice. Therefore, a decision was taken to appoint mayor and deputy mayor for 15 months each. BJP had tried this formula in the last term with the deputy mayor’s post,” sources said.
 
 BJP leaders in the meeting also suggested outgoing mayor Pravin Datke’s name as ruling party leader. BJP Vidarbha secretary Upendra Kothekar conveyed the names of Joshi and Datke to Fadnavis and union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari. Fadnavis and Gadkari will finalize the name and convey it to BJP city president Sudhakar Kohle on Tuesday.
 
 Sources added Datke’s chances are remote since he was already ruling party leader for two-and-a-half years, and mayor for remaining two-and-a-half years in the last regime. “Fadnavis made it very clear to all BJP leaders that Joshi was going to be ruling party leader,” sources said.
 
 Joshi was in the race for ruling party leader in 2014 but the cold war between Fadnavis and Gadkari put paid to his expectations. After an inordinate delay, Dayashankar Tiwari was made ruling party leader.
 
 Datke is likely to prepare himself to contest the legislative assembly elections in Central Nagpur, instead of trying for ruling party leader post. However, Datke’s name could be a surprise entry if Gadkari comes out in his support.
 
 For the post of mayor, BJP leaders have differing opinions. Sources said East Nagpur MLA Krishna Khopde has demanded either post of mayor or standing committee chairman for East Nagpur corporators. In the core committee meeting, Khopde pointed out that the highest number of BJP corporators won from East Nagpur.
 
 The BJP parliamentary board will finalize the name for mayor and deputy mayor along with 12 members of standing committee on Tuesday. All names have to be submitted on Wednesday to NMC.
 
 BJP is likely to give post of deputy mayor to one of the corporators elected from SC seat. Second post of deputy mayor will be given to the only Muslim face in BJP’s 108 corporators Nasim Bano Khan. This strategy was also adopted in the last regime to woo SC and Muslim voters before   and assembly elections.
 
 It is likely that two corporators from each assembly constituency will be made members of the standing committee for the first year.
 
 
