CUTTACK: After outbreak of jaundice in Millennium city, the authorities have decided to launch crackdown against illegal water connections in the city.

 Public health engineering organization(PHEO) will now lodge FIR against persons found taking unauthorized water connections to their houses by illegally cutting water supply pipelines. Secretary of housing and urban development department, G Mathi Vathanan, who visited jaundice affected areas on Monday, directed the   to deal with illegal water connections strictly.
 
 PHEO officials said illegal water connections are a major cause of concern for them because it not only causes loss of revenue but also affects the water quality. “To avoid water bills, people cut water pipelines illegally and connect it to their houses. The connections are not made properly so leakages exist in the pipelines and water gets easily contaminated with drain water,” said a PHEO official. Presently, the PHEO staffs are disconnecting the illegal water connections but they don’t initiate any action against violators.
 
 Officials said the secretary of housing and urban development department has directed PHEO to deal illegal water connections as water theft and lodge police complaints against the violators. “We will extend cooperation to the PHEO officials in checking water supply pipelines in the entire city,” said CMC commissioner, Gyana Das.
 
 Along with it, Vathanan has also directed PHEO officials to replace all water pipelines passing over drains on a war-footing basis. Besides, the rusted and damaged pipelines which are over 25 years old will be identified on a priority basis and replaced. The PHEO will start the replacement work from the jaundice affected areas.
 
 Meanwhile, the CMC has decided to launch crackdown on sherbet and lassi shops which are mushrooming in the city in summer. CMC health officials will check the quality of water and ice used by these roadside stalls.
 
 There is no let up in jaundice situation as 23 new jaundice cases were traced from ward number 8,9 and 10 on Monday. With this the total number of jaundice affected persons has reached to 109 officially. 
 
