JAISALMER/UDAIPUR:   by the district administration,   and army troops continued in Barmer on Tuesday.

  110mm rainfall while Gudamalani had received 200 mm rains till late Monday night which damaged a part of the Narmada canal in   This led to water gushing into several houses. Barmer district collector Shivprasad Nakate said army and SDRF have reached the area for rescue work.
 
 Eight camels were caught in the current of the heavy flowing water in Luni river and the district administration is finding in the difficult to rescue them. “The camels are stranded in the middle of the river and as the flow is heavy, we are unable to bring them to the banks. Efforts are being made to rescue them too,’’ said Nakate.
 
 The administration has contacted the air force to rescue the camels. People living in villages and hamlets near the river have been directed to move to higher altitudes. Administration has also shifted few families to safer places.
 
 “Rain water from Jalore and Sirohi is flowing into the districts through Luni, Sakudi and Bandi rivers. Water levels are rising at Nehda, Hemavas and Bakli dams,’’ said the collector. He said that the warning of heavy rains continues for the next 24 hours.
 
 Barmer in charge minister Surendra Goyal reached Barmer and took information of situation of rain in Barmer. He visited luni river area and gave necessary directions.
 
 Meanwhile, several roads and bridges were seen flooded in Rajsamand district of the division on Tuesday as intermittent rains lashed the region. The rainwaters flooded the Kumbalgarh-Charbuja road causing inconvenience to the commuters while a bridge at BamanTukra also was partillay collapsed. At Siyana puliya on the Kelwa-Amet road, water flow over 3 feet caused a major traffic block for hours. Water ran over 3 to 4 feet high on bridges of Banas and Gomti rivers in Rajsamand district and some half a dozen roads were submerged in the   Roads in Molela, Khamnor, Sema, Fatehpur and Kama were besieged and villagers were in a stuck up situation.
 
