MUMBAI: Ten years after a woman witnessed an accident that led to the death of her 50-year-old husband, a   ordered the insurance company to pay her and their now 28-year-old daughter, a   of Rs 25 lakh. Bharat Shah was knocked down by a speeding auto-rickshaw on the   after he stepped out on the side of the road with the cabbie to check on wooden furniture kept in the dickey. 

 Dipti Shah submitted an application against the   driver, Rupeshkumar Kujisahu, and   on September 23, 2008. She said that on September 19, 2007, at 7.15pm the taxi was stopped for checking of goods. When her husband and the cabbie were standing at the rear end of the vehicle, the rashly driven auto rammed into Bharat and the cab. She said the auto driver fled. Bharat, grievously injured, was taken to a government hospital. He was later shifted to a private hospital, where he succumbed to head injuries on September 24, 2009.
 
 An FIR was lodged and the vehicle was found abandoned on a service road during investigations. Dipti told the tribunal the family had incurred huge medical expenses after the accident. She said Bharat owned a bindi-manufacturing business and was the only earning family member.
 
 While the auto driver never came before the tribunal, the insurance firm sought dismissal of the application, claiming the accident was only due to the victim’s negligence. 
 
 The tribunal held that the insurance firm had not explained how Bharat had been negligent. “It is therefore clear that only for the sake of raising the defence of no negligence or rashness by the offending vehicle’s driver such a suggestion was made (by the insurance firm),” the tribunal said. 
 
 The tribunal considered Dipti’s presence on the spot and facts mentioned in the FIR to rule in the family’s favour. “In the absence of contrary evidence by the insurer on the point of negligence, no further proof can be asked from the applicants about the rashness and negligence of the offending vehicle’s driver. Her evidence is sufficient,” the tribunal said, granting the compensation.
 
 
