NEW DELHI | MUMBAI: The   just crashed AD Singh's party. On the road to raise a fresh round of private equity money, one of India's top restauranteurs faces a new reality — no   can be served in some of his flagship gastropubs that are on national and state highways.
 
  "At least four of my restaurants are on the highways and, under the three-year gestation period typically required to break even, these will become totally unviable without alcohol," he said. "Decisions like these affect the viability of businesses overnight and adversely impact entrepreneurship and investor confidence."
  
  With the apex court banning liquor sales 500 metres from national and state highways in the country, the business model of the food and beverage (F&B) industry is under threat.
  
  A Delhi-based VC fund that has backed a pan-India chain of microbreweries is facing a potential write-off on the investment since nearly half its sales could get hit.
  
  
 
  
  "Liquor is typically a high-margin SKU (stock keeping unit) and, for the type of format we have invested in, accounts for a very high proportion of sales," said an executive of the VC.
  
  "Outlets that are impacted pull down the overall performance of the business, adversely impacting our projections and returns," said the executive of the venture capital firm quoted earlier.
  
  To be sure, hectic moves are underway to try and mitigate the impact of the ban — re-designating highways as city roads, pushing for judicial review, changing the entrance to increase the motorable distance to the road, etc — but there's no clarity on when and whether these will succeed.
  
  PE executives refrained from going on record, fearing judicial wrath.
  
  "Constantly changing regulations affects our business projections on the investee companies," said the head of a PE fund that has invested in a high-end, fine-dining restaurant chain. According to the fund manager, the chain's expansion plan will have to be redrawn and otherwise economically unviable locations away from state and national highways will have to be chosen.
  
  Private equity investors have pumped more than $700 million into quick service restaurants, hotels, fine and casual dining formats and pubs in the past four years, as per advisory Grant Thornton India's estimates.
  
  
 
  F&B sales is estimated to have grown 24% to Rs 3,80,000 crore in the year to March with about half of Indians' total consumption expenditure going toward food, according to a report by Grant Thornton and the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci).
  
  The fast-food segment, which has the largest market share at 45%, is projected to grow 16.6% annually, followed by casual dining, which has a 32% market share, at 10.1%, according to the Grant Thornton India-Ficci report. Naturally, investors have lined up to bankroll the growth plans of several food entrepreneurs.
  
  Mayfield Capital has backed BTB Marketing, which runs The Beer Café chain of microbreweries. Matrix Partners-backed Moods Hospitality runs multiple formats such as The Wine Co, Yo China! and Dimsum Brothers, while Everstone Capital-backed F&B Asia runs Pind Balluchi Blue Foods and Harry's. PE-backed Massive Restaurants run by Zorawar Kalra has diversified into Farzi Café, Masala Bar and Made in Punjab after the runaway success of Masala Library.
  
  CX Partners has bankrolled Bengaluru-headquartered   with a Rs 110-crore investment in 2013 while the year before that Aditya Birla PE put $10 million into AD Singh's Olive Bar and Kitchen.
  
  Entrepreneurs and investors are a stressed lot.
  
  "This type of ruling will mean that investors will be unable to take a proper view on the Indian market in future," said a senior executive at a PE fund that owns a stake in a restaurant business.
  
  PE-backed franchisees are equally dispirited. "We have raised money from PE investors and taken loans from banks. How are we going to meet our obligations?" said Jay Singh, owner, JSM Corporation, the company that has brought the Hard Rock Café to India.
  
  Singh raised around Rs 150 crore from billionaire Azim Premji's family office in 2012 to fund expansion plans for his company, which also runs the   and Shiro chains.
  
  The Hard Rock Café located in Gurgaon's Cyber Hub is one of about 9,000 restaurants hit by the ban in north India alone, according to preliminary estimates by the   (NRAI).
  
  
 
  "This is a double whammy. Demonetisation had already affected us adversely, making it difficult to meet even basic operating costs. The impact of this will be severe on financial health of the restaurant businesses," said Jaspal Singh Chadha, chairman of Everstone Capital-backed JS Hospitality.
  
  "The Supreme Court should reconsider this order as putting liquor vends and a five-star or a highend, fine-dining place on the same level is unfair," said Anjan Chatterjee, founder of publicly traded Specialty Restaurants, which has nationwide formats such as Mainland China and Oh Calcutta. Private equity firm SAIF Partners was among Specialty's early backers.
  
  
 
  "Hotels have paid prime prices for properties on the highway. There is total lack of consideration for the economics of the business," said Pattu Keswani, chairman, Lemon Tree Hotels. Five of its properties have been hit by the ban.
  
  Warburg Pincus, one of the earliest PE investors in India, has backed Keswani. The company had been poised for an IPO but has gone back to the drawing board. Keswani has raised Rs 600 crore from Warburg Pincus and Dutch fund APG to expand the chain. With New Delhi, Aurangabad, Pune and Chennai being adversely impacted by the ban, revenue projections that were factored in while allocating almost Rs 1,000 crore as capital expenditure on building new hotels will need to be scaled back.
  
  
 
  Some are trying to look on the bright side. "The demand for liquor is not going to come down as only the sales is going to be affected. In such a scenario, the market share will get reallocated and someone like The Beer Café stands to gain from that," said Vikram Godse, managing director, Mayfield India Advisors, which has invested in the chain.
  
  "We have to wait and watch and hope we can minimise the impact of this ruling by planning locations for our festivals in advance," said Ajay Nair, director at OML, which runs the NH7 Weekender festivals. OML is backed by Emerald Media, the media investment arm of PE giant KKR.
