Bhopal: Decision of leading private bank, HDFC, to revise charges on cash transactions on savings and salary accounts from March 1 has been criticised by a cross section of society. People termed it “a loot”.

 HDFC bank was the first to announce that it was revising fees and charges with effect from next month. According to its circular, after first four free cash transactions, fifth transaction onwards, Rs 150 will be charged on each transaction, an HDFC notice to its savings and salary account holders said. Besides, taxes and cess would also be levied on this amount, it added. The bank has also revised charges of third party transactions among others.
 
 Convener of state-level banker’s committee Ajay Vyas said, “new directives of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) have asked the banks –both private and public sector banks- to revise charges. This step has been taken after the banks reduced charges on on-line banking post demonetisation.”
 
 Spokesperson of State Bank of India in Bhopal Uday Bhagwat said, “We have not yet received any circular about the new charges”.
 
 Pushan Bhattacharya a trade union leader in Bhopal said “This is an anti-people and anti-depositor step taken by the banks. This is nothing but a way to keep the collected money after demonetisation in bank so that it can be used for financing large capitalists and companies at lower rate of interest on the other hand people in general will be charged more.” 
 
 He said that the RBI is also in process of lowering lending rates by 0.5 % .
 
 Govind Goyal former general secretary of Congress termed it ‘a loot’ of depositors. Aaam admi is already harassed after demonetisation and this would further burden him. The private banks seem to be in hurry and this can be gauged from the fact that HDFC was the first to announce it,” he said
 
 Criticising the RBI step, Chandra Prakash Tiwari, an executive of a private company said, “After demonetisation, the government wants to discourage people from withdrawing money. This is one such step to do so.”
 
 
