JAIPUR: Setting a new milestone in digitization, chief minister Vasundhara Raje on Monday inaugurated the first   (NOC), which was set up at the JDA under Cisco’s Lighthouse project.

 With this, the Pink City has not only become the first in the country but also in South Asia to centrally control, operate and manage smart city infrastructure using a single network. Executive chairman of   and JDC Vaibhav Galaria apprised chief minster of the recently developed digital infrastructure in the city. The urban development and housing (UDH) minister   was also present on the occasion.
 
 The JDA on Monday also launched ‘Jaipur App’, a first-of-its-kind all-purpose comprehensive application for the tourists and residents. With this, Jaipur also became first city in the country to provide many civic facilities through an app. An official said, through the app one will be able to book hotels, community halls or movie tickets, receive information about tourist spots, trips and eateries. It will provide information on flight and train delays as well as PNR status. “Residents will be informed about real-time parking availability, shopping venues, working status of smart lights, pollution levels, and important services like fire, ambulance and blood banks. They can participate in e-auctions, recharge mobile and lodge civic complaints,” the official said.
 
 The JDA headquarters turned into a fortress as huge police force was deployed for the inauguration. During the ceremony, Raje exhorted the civic body to use smart technologies to improve sanitation condition and keep a strict vigil on people defacing the city walls. She emphasized that city councilors should also be educated about the latest smart facilities, while the police administration was urged to install more surveillance cameras in the city.
 
 Officials said the recently developed digital infrastructure facilities such as intelligent kiosks, wireless broadband, sensor-based dustbins, smart streetlights, parking apps, among others are now integrated into the NOC.
 
 Explaining about NOC, a JDA official said, “A fully integrated software application ‘CISCO SASDA Advanced Player’ provides easy-to-use and highly flexible management tools for multi-site monitoring from the control centre. It enables the operator to survey infringements such as zone intrusions, lifting of objects at monuments and line crossings by sending alarms and pop-ups on a regular basis. The data is stored for 30 days and in case of an incident it is passed on to the police officials for further scrutiny.”
 
