AURANGABAD: Chief minister   said on Thursday that the city would soon be covered with   cameras under the  . 

 He was in the city to lay the foundation stone of the on-going construction work at the city police commissionorate.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, Fadanvis said that safe city is the main ingredient of smart city project, for which IT enterprise architecture will be prepared and it will act as the backbone of the surveillance set-up.
 
 He said that its command and control system should be in the commissioner’s office. Even if it was not included in the plan of the on-going construction, it should still be made a part of the project.
 
 The minister also asked the authorities to ensure that there are skill development centres and gymnasiums at the residential quarters, so that the families of police officials lead a healthy and economically sound life.
 
 Fadanvis claimed that the quality of houses being constructed for our constabulary are so high that senior officers are requesting for similar houses.
 
 Aurangabad city police has turned out to be the sole unit in the state to get sanction for carrying out works to the tune of Rs 200 crores. The sanctions have been granted to the city police in a span of a year, a move which is being hailed across the police circles in the state.
 
 While speaking on the occasion, the city police chief said that the city needs another set of Rs 200 crores to demolish and construct the quarters neighbouring   police station.
 
 Kumar said, “The police are thankful for the kind gesture of the state government for sanctioning huge funds to the city police. The officer also said that he hopes that the remaining set of Rs 200 crores would be sanctioned soon.”
 
 Speaking on the occasion, state director general of police Satishchandra Mathur recounted the performance and achievements of state police in various competitions across the country and requested allotment of sufficient funds for sports training.
 
 Aurangabad commissioner of police   said, “The city police have been granted funds of Rs 20 crores for the construction of state-of the art building of city police headquarters. In addition to this, an amount of Rs 123 crores has been sanctioned for the constructions of 532 residential quarters meant for policemen.”
 
 These quarters would be built in nine towers having seven floors and 53 flats each.
 
 Assembly speaker Haribhau Bagde said, “Considering the location of the land that is situated in Kranti Chowk area, a plan should be sketched out in a manner that it should not only accommodate residential quarters, but should also have commercial set ups and should be able to accommodate different government offices that are currently running their offices from rented premises.”
 
