CHENNAI: "I haven't seen anything like this in my life." This was the common refrain as the 
  entered the fifth day on Saturday. For most of them, the only comparison for a protest like this in Tamil Nadu is the 1965 anti-Hindi agitation. But the striking difference is — the anti-Hindi agitation was violent while the pro-jallikattu protest in Chennai and other parts of the state is peaceful and grand, evoking wide support from people of all sections. 

 People, including senior citizens, women and children wearing black dresses headed to Marina from across the city and other districts from morning. Some walked holding placards which read " " and ''We want jallikattu."
 
 As in the last few days, youngsters beat drums, danced and shouted slogans in support of jallikattu. Even small children were seen beating the drums and shouting slogans. Some blew conches to enthuse the crowds further. Protesters, elsewhere, sat on the Marina sand under scorching sun. Though Rain was forecast, it didn't rain in Chennai till Monday afternoon.
  
 On Friday, a 
  to extend support for the protesters. The number of visitors will be more or less same by Saturday evening too as it is a weakened.
 
 Protests continued in Alanganallur, Madurai, Trichy, Coimbatore and other parts of the state. In Trichy, the protesters braved rain and remained stay put in the protest venues.
 
 In Rameswaram and Pudukottai, fishermen joined the protest. They hoisted black flags on their boats, which remained anchored on the jetties.
 
 
  
 DMK MLAs and MPs were observing a hunger strike on Saturday demanding that the Centre lift the ban on jallikattu. Led by DMK working president  , 85 out of the total 89 MLAs and three out of the four Rajya Sabha MPs participated in the fast at Vallur Kottam in Chennai.
  
 DMK president M  , who is not well, did not participate in the protest. Two MLAs from Vellore did not participate as a party cadre died during a rail roko on Friday. Party's Rajya Sabha MP R S Bharathi could not participate as his sister died on Friday. The fast will end at 5pm.
 
