HYDERABAD: The   in Delhi with all its modern gadgets now maintains India's time and frequency to the minutest accuracy. Let's step back in time to the British era. And did you know who was the 'timekeeper' of Hyderabad, the largest of all princely states in pre-Independent India? It's our very own  , which is celebrating 100 years of its birth. 

 At a time when many regions in the world adopted crude methods to keep pace with the rotation of the earth to update the clock, Osmania University was running a full-fledged observatory to maintain correct time. In fact, the onus of maintaining correct time rested on the shoulders of Osmania University for full 40 years from late 1910s to early 1950s. Initially, the university supplied 'mean time' to the Hyderabad and the British governments and by 1933 it had acquired the knowhow to provide the accurate time. Those who had clocks from grandfather clocks hung on walls to classic waist clocks worn on self used to adjust time based on the updates provided by Osmania University. Hyderabad did not have a radio station by then to keep one informed about the correct time. But there was a unique method of informing people what time of the day it is. 
 
 Old records reveal that based on the time updates provided by the  , the Hyderabad government used to fire hourly gun signals. The information was also provided to the  , which used to issue 'time signal' at 9 pm every day. Hyderabad was one of the few places in the world to acquire electric power in 1910. The university began providing time updates to the electricity department as early as 1930. When the Hyderabad radio station (Deccan radio) was set up in mid 1930s, time updates were broadcast based on the data obtained from the university.
 
 Also, the almanac of the Hyderabad state in English and Urdu was based on the astronomical data sent by the Nizamia observatory. It was equipped to measure climatic changes both at the surface and the upper atmosphere. On September 15, 1929 air balloon was hoisted to study the air current in upper atmosphere. The university continued to supply information on time and climate till April 1951. It was during this time, that the   (IMD) took over the duties. Osmania University, however, was approached by authorities till November 1, 1956 (formation of unified Andhra Pradesh by merger of Andhra and Hyderabad states) for rainfall data.
 
