PATNA: State art, culture, youth and sports minister   informed the legislative assembly on Friday that the existing structure of   at   in the state capital would be demolished to construct a new stadium to facilitate major cricket events.

 Giving the government’s reply on the Rs 137 crore budgetary demand of his department, he said the technical sanction to the project for the construction of the new stadium had been given. The BJP-led opposition members walked out of the House. The budget was passed by voice vote.
 
 “At present, the project to construct the new stadium is awaiting administrative sanction, which would follow soon. Following that, the construction work of the new stadium would begin,” he added.
 
 “In fact, once the new stadium of international standards comes up at the same site, it would be possible to hold cricket events as related to Ranji Trophy, Test matches and even T-20 Indian Premier League,” the minister said. 
 
 He also said the demolition of the existing stadium had become necessary for the construction of a new “international level” stadium, as   (BCA) has been given recognition by the   (BCCI).
 
 With the recognition of BCA, now it has become possible that cricket players from Bihar would have the opportunity to play and pursue their game for excellence under its banner and, accordingly, they would not have to go to Jharkhand, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and other states to play cricket for national and international excellence and recognition, the minister said.
 
 He also said the state government would celebrate the birth anniversary of shehnai maestro and Bharat Ratna late Bismillah Khan at Dumaron in Buxar district, where he was born and brought up.
 
 The minister said the successful holding of Prakash Parva, 350th birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh, in which Sikh devotees from 90 countries participated, had helped rebuild the stock of the state, apart from giving recognition to artists from the states who also performed at the functions held on the occasion.
 
 Besides, the state also gained recognition for organizing theatre and film festivals, as well as performance of plays on folk themes and traditions of the state, in its auditoria here at Patna, he said, adding that the centenary celebrations of Mahatma Gandhi’s Champaran yatra would also be organized next month. The minister also demanded Bharat Ratna for folk theatre artist and playwright from the state, Bhikhari Thakur. 
 
 
