KOCHI: With only two days left for 'Pulsar' Suni's custody period to end, police have been struggling to make a headway in the investigation into the conspiracy angle in the actor rape case. On Friday, they questioned the key accused in the case along with three other accused after they took them into custody. 

 Vipinlal, one of Suni's fellow prisoners said the letter purportedly written by Suni to actor Dileep was actually written by him under pressure from jail officials. He said Suni also pressured him to write the letter. Meanwhile, Vishnu, another accused, also a fellow inmate of Suni, said there was indeed a conspiracy behind the actor's rape. But he maintained that he doesn't know whether any actors were involved in it.
 
 A third person,  , was taken into custody for arranging a SIM card for Suni. "Imran's arrest would be recorded at   station," said a senior police official.
 
 Countering  's allegation that cops forced him to write the letter to Dileep, Kakkanad jail superintendent   maintained that he has never spoken about any such incidents of intimidation from the jail officials till date.
 
 "The investigation has been going on since the beginning of May and none of the prisoners have ever complained about any such pressure tactics from the part of jail officials. I have been going on rounds for the past few days. If something like that had happened then they could have complained to me," said Kumar.
 
 Vipinlal, Vishnu and   who have been undergoing questioning for allegedly smuggling mobile phones into the jail, were convicts who were serving terms in various cheating cases, the superintendent added. 
 
 Meanwhile, a petition filed by advocate BA Aloor to cancel Suni's police custody alleging torture was dismissed by the Kakkanad judicial first class magistrate court. 
 
 The court observed that the accused has not undergone physical torture and dismissed the possibility of cancelling the police custody of Suni. The court also denied Suni's counsel the permission for daily visits during the custody period. The prosecution had submitted the medical examination certificates to confirm the fitness of the accused. 
 
 Aloor, meanwhile, said he will move the court on Monday for further procedures. "The case will come up for consideration again on Monday when the police custody period comes to an end. We will try to get a detailed statement of Suni recorded before the magistrate explaining the torture in police custody," he said.
 
