DEHRADUN : It is unimaginable for a city or village dweller to imagine the way   live in the  . One such family is of   (29) and her husband   with their eight children in Chillawali range of  . There is no door to one hut in which her family live amid the dense jungle. The hut is dotted with several cots, the only furniture in her abode. Another hut is used as kitchen for the family where she cooks food on fuel wood. Her livelihood depends on a herd of six buffaloes as her husband earns some money by selling milk to the city areas. They move to meadows in Rudraprayag for a period of five months of Monsoon, walking all the way with their herd.

 “I go out inside the forest to collect fuel wood and fodder for the family leaving my children alone behind in the day. At night too, we sleep in this open hut. We don’t feel any threat from the wild animals, though couple of our neighbors were killed by elephants in last three years, “ she said.
 
 However she wants to relocate for her children’s future. “I wish to move to more settled life in city where my children could get good education and have better future. We will move with whatever the state government gave us for compensation,” she said.
 
 Like Sakina’s family, around 22 gujjar families have left behind in various pockets of Chilla wali range, followed by 13 in Gohri range and one in Ramgarh range. Now the state government is making intense efforts to relocate these families to outside Rajaji. 
 
 According to wildlife warden Komal Singh, total 1318 families have been relocated in Haridwar, including 512 in Pathari area and 806 in Gaindikhatta since 1998. “Every married male of 18 years of age was considered a family and was allotted two bigha of land alongwith facilities of buffalo shelter, school, road, electricity and water for the gujjar families in both Pathari and Gaindikhatta,” he said. There is some confusion over families left in Chillawali range.
 
 The sight of Gaindikhatta looks quite pleasing with sea of vast lush green fields where relocated gujjars are working among the crops of Urad pulse, sugarcane and wheat. They have built beautiful mud huts or even some concrete houses with schools, mosques and shops cropping up in between. Mohd Alam, van gujjar said, “It is a great feeling that now we interact with many more people and, do not live solitary life in the forest. My children go to school and I get good return from my crops. I do go out at times to meet some of my relatives left in the forest but feel uncomfortable in staying there overnight. There is no fan and no electricity there,” he said.
 
 Director Rajaji, Sanatan Sonkar said, the state government is no position to give land any more to the van gujjar families in Rajaji , hence each family would be paid a lumpsum money of Rs 10 lakh as relocation package.
 
