LUCKNOW: A youth riding a scooty loses control of the vehicle on seeing the  . Both he and his friend, who was  , tremble with fear as the police run towards them. 

 The squad, in action on Friday evening, helps them to their feet. The girl is shivering by this time as the policemen question her over her visit to the riverfront. Visibly terrified, she manages to blurt that they had come to the riverfront for a walk after attending coaching classes.
 
 At another end, on seeing two girls taking a stroll along the river banks, a woman constable walks up to them and asks them their names and the purpose of their visit while frisking them. To which the girls, who are students of a private institute, get furious and retort, “Quizzing girls is not part of the operation”. A police sub-inspector (S-I) hurries up to them and tries to control the situation.
 
 At around 5:15pm, four constables and an S-I are chatting among themselves in a police van which was earlier used by the Police Modern Control room. They see a car that stops on Gandhi Setu. Four men alight the car taking out their phones, start clicking pictures, also of some girls. A woman constable notices this and shouts to her colleagues to run and catch them. The squad rushes towards the men and begins to frisk them. 
 
 Part of the group, medical representative   reasons that it’s the only place to relax after a hard days work. The police though quiz the men on why they were clicking pictures. Another from the group, Vinay Singh says, “(photographs of) all beautiful things must be clicked.” At which, the S-I says, “Jail is the most beautiful place in the world, why not all of you have a ride their once.” After the customary apologies, comes a strict warning not to repeat the offence. The names of all the four are noted down in a yellow-coloured register. 
 
 The vehicle moves further. A teenager on a bike is seen chasing girls on a scooty. As the girls move on, the boy zooms towards the riverfront. The squad is keenly observing him and a policeman jots down the number of his bike. As soon as he stops, he is surrounded by the five cops. The boy says, “I was taking my exam and now want to relax.” Advising him that the best way is to go home and relax, a policeman asks the teen whether his father was aware he was at the riverfront. The terrified boy is let-off after a warning.
 
 The squad then notices a man riding on a bike with two women on pillion. Stopping the bike, the policemen frisk the man, who says he was with his sisters who had come from Chinhat. A policeman notes down his name and tells him that three people riding on two-wheeler is an offence. 
 
 The cops again sit inside their vehicle and move towards Ambedkar crossing.
 
