RTM Nagpur University has issued a circular recently asking city   to organise workshops on sexual harassment on women. Paying heed to this latest circular by  , city colleges are planning various workshops and taking   classes to help students and teachers fight the menace of sexual harassment at workplace. In fact, many colleges have even tightened up their campus security to tackle the issue. We bring you all the details… 

 
 
 While the management of   will keep two separate workshops for students and teachers and teach them capacity building to fight sexual harassment at workplace, students will create awareness on the same through the medium of street theatre. Principal of an all-girls college, Mrunalini Fadnavis says, “Our students will present a nukkad natak and mono-act plays near the college premises soon. For the workshops, we have invited the head of Maharashtra Women’s Commission Dr Manjusha Molwane along with a few lawyers and psychologists who will counsel all the teaching and non-teaching staff on how to adopt a more sensitive approach when a student informs a harassment incident.”
 
 
 
 In addition to a full-fledged anti-harassment cell at NKP Salve Institute of Medical Sciences and Research that conducts several workshops, its student welfare association is planning to organise a self-defence class for the girl students. Faculty in-charge Dr Mohana Majumdar says, “Our anti-sexual harassment cell organises weekly events but our special self-defence class will help girl students learn various techniques on how to react promptly when in danger. They will be taught karate as well as a few tricks on how to defend themselves in case of a molestation.”
 
 
 Interestingly, the male students of   have join hands with the faculty members. One of the counsellors of anti-sexual harassment cell at Tirpude College Carol Poonekar says, “Besides, conducting workshops and seminars to help them fight the sexual harassments, for both teachers and girl students, we are conducting lectures regularly separately for boys to sensitise them on this subject. We are glad by the positive response shown by our male students.”
 
 
 
 Serving as a perfect eye-opener, the circular by the RTMNU has definitely brought this grave issue to spotlight. So, along with workshops on sexual harassments of women, many city colleges are ensuring that their campus is equipped with good security arrangements to curb the menace. HOD of computer science and engineering department at   Vijaya Balpande says, “We have recently installed CCTVs on our college premises. Also, at every corridor, we have deployed a security guard who religiously informs anti-sexual harassment cell.” In-charge of the women harassment cell at Jhulelal Institute of Technology Archana Sahasrabhojanee informs, “The members of this cell inspect the entire premises on a regular basis and ensure that no student misbehaves.”
 
