MOHALI: The first four months of the 2017 have seen a whopping 81 people lose their lives on Mohali’s  , a massive increase from the 53 in the same period last year. The year started on a bad note; January itself accounted for 15 lives, and in one particularly terrible stretch from February 1 to 20, Mohali’s streets claimed 23 lives — more than one a day. As recently as on Friday night, three labourers were killed on the Zirakpur flyover, when a speeding car hit the vehicle they were sitting in, and then ran over them. This was the second major accident on the flyover. In December 2014, two youths in cars, racing, crashed into the flyover’s divider, claiming eight lives — the cars, on hitting the divider, had entered the opposite lane and rammed into two autorickshaws and a rider. The racing driver fell off the flyover. The aftermath of that accident saw then deputy commission, Mohali, TPS Sidhu, order the installation of CCTV camera on the flyover. It was never implemented. Local cops have identified a few zones as particularly accident-prone — Khanpur, Mundi Kharar, Phase VII roundabout, Sohana Gurudwara, Balongi barrier, ‘dots’ on Ambala-Chandigarh highway, Patiala Zirakpur highwar, Phase V, etc. The district has 130 traffic cops, of which fewer than 65 remain on duty to patrol an area of over 1,092 sq km and handle a population of over 6 lakh — one cop per 2,200 people. “Most accidents happen due to human error,” a top police official in   told STOI. The stretch between   and Zirakpur, where the highway broadens, is a particularly accident-prone zone; every month, more than 15 accidents are recorded here itself. “We are doing our best with the cops we have,” a traffic official said. “ Out of the 30 cops who cover Zirakpur, 10 are always on duty, maintaining the smooth flow of traffic in heat and cold alike.” Mohali SSP KS Chahal listen a few causes of accidents — “non-functional street lights, speed breakers, sign boards, stray animals, etc.” He then hastened to add: “But this is not our department. Our duty is to handle traffic and punish violators as per the law. We do that all the time.”

