JAIPUR: The   has come   from the Comptroller and Auditor General’s (CAG) office which in its report has pointed out that lease holders were given undue benefit by officials who incorrectly computed minerals excavated from leases areas.

 Department engineers had violated rules for the benefit of mine owners, leading to the exploitation of natural resources and resulting in revenue loss for the government.
 
 To examine unauthorized excavation of limestone and misuse of ‘rawannas’ (receipts) in village Bhed of Nagaur district, a committee was formed under the jurisdiction of   mining engineer. After inspection, the committee reported that the ‘rawannas’ were not misused by lease holders.
 
 However, during the scrutiny of records, CAG observed that the committee had manipulated the quantity of excavated mineral by applying incorrect conversion figures instead of those set as per the Rajasthan Minor Mineral Concession Rules (RMMC). Due to these ‘inaccurate’ calculations by officials, the department failed to detect and recover Rs 10.93 crore from the violator.
 
 Along with this, the department did not even raise the demand of cost of unauthorized (illegal) excavated mineral in some cases.
 
 The report noted that, despite identifying illegal mining of sandstone and similar stones, the department had neither calculated the recoverable cost nor taken any action for recovering the amount.
 
 Rules were also violated in non-recovery of royalty on associated minerals by the department from lease holders. It noted that Hindustan Zinc Ltd was granted lease for lead, zinc and associated materials for a period of 20 years. The company, however, did not disclose the production of ‘associated materials’ and failed to pay royalty for that.
 
 The CAG also pointed out that the department had allowed the participation of people without any legal authority, other than the applicants. The process to granting lease was irregular. In several cases, the procedures for auction and lottery were bypassed.
 
