BENGALURU:   tops the country with the highest number of clinically suspected   since January 2017. 

  According to data released by the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme ( ), until July 23, 2017, Karnataka accounted for 8,930 of the total 16,976 suspected cases. It was followed by Maharashtra (2,379) and Gujarat (2,103). 
 
 The most recent chikungunya update for the state, published on July 25, reports 9,448 suspected cases, of which 5,880 blood samples were taken and 900 were declared positive; 73 confirmed cases were recorded on July 25 alone. There have been no fatalities.
 
 In Gujarat, as of July 24, 286 people tested positive for the fever. In Maharashtra, as of June 30, 186 out of the 2,317 suspected cases tested positive.
 
 The districts with the maximum number of suspected cases are Tumakuru (1,419),   (1420),   (1,071), Mandya (1079) and   (850). According to BBMP reports, private hospitals have recorded 23 confirmed chikungunya cases over the same period.
 
  Dr Prakash Kumar BG, deputy director, National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP) said the reason for Karnataka's high number of suspected chikungunya cases is the robust surveillance system. 
 
  "If 100 people in a village come to us with chikungunya symptoms, we send 5% of their blood samples to be tested. If these test positive, then we treat all 100 patients as if they have chikungunya and medicate them accordingly. All these 100 are then counted as part of the suspected cases," he said, implying that reported confirmed cases are only the tip of the iceberg. 
 
  Stating that this is the logic behind most public health programmes, he said, "Aside from taking 5% of the samples, we check the surroundings for larvae. If the symptoms match those of chikungunya, and the larvae are found around the houses of victims, then we confirm that chikungunya is in the locality." 
 
  While chikungunya is a non-fatal disease, the programme has confirmed that five people have died of complications caused by dengue since January this year. To counter this and reduce the mortality rate, NVBDCP launched a statewide programme about 10 months ago. 
 
  "At the district level, we send a list of confirmed dengue cases to the 104 call centre. This centre contacts each and every one of these patients on the 5th or 7th day of their diagnosis, and asks them if they are suffering from any of the danger symptoms such as bleeding gums, persistent vomiting, and vomiting of blood. If so, they immediately direct them to the nearest hospital. We introduced this mechanism to bring down the mortality rate, and it is the only one of its kind in the country," said Dr Kumar. 
 
  On July 15, they launched another programme 'Naagarikarige Vandu Saval' which seeks to conduct source-reduction as well as educate the public. Over the next 3-4 months, health workers will visit houses, schools and offices and conduct source-reduction. They will ask the owner 10 questions on vector-borne diseases such as dengue, chikungunya and malaria to get a clearer idea of public awareness. 
 
 "Through this, we hope to eliminate the larvae at the spot as well as educate the public," he added.
 
