LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh government will most probably bring out an   to regulate private schools’ fees on the lines of   government. Deputy chief minister   who is also the secondary education minister has instructed officials to study thoroughly similar legislations implemented by the Haryana government. There will be a few points, said education officials from the recently passed fee regulation bill by the   government.

 Insiders said, the deputy CM finds the fee regulation act by the Haryana government the best. “We have been asked to study the norms for fee regulation in private schools implemented by Haryana and Gujarat governments. Since Gujarat’s is the latest, interesting points may be picked up from it,’’ an official told TOI. 
 
 Under the Haryana School Education Act, 1995, oldest among the existing six, before an academic session commences, manager of every recognised school has to file with the secondary/primary education director a complete statement of fees to be levied by the school during the ensuing academic session, and except with the prior approval of the director, no school is to charge during the academic session, any fee in excess of the fee specified by its manager in the statement. Such fee should commensurate with the facilities provided by such school, reads the Act. 
 
 Haryana’s additional chief secretary (school education) PK Das told TOI that the state follows a three pointer to fix the fee in private schools. ``No capitation fee is allowed in private schools. The schools are not allowed to go on pre- recovery of fee which means charging the year’s fee at once. And third, all schools will have to notify the fee charged in advance,’’ Das said. 
 
 The schools will not take from parents any other charges except those approved by the director. Receipt will be issued for every fee and charges taken. For recognised non-aided (read private) schools, the HSE Act states there shall be a ‘Recognised Un-aided School Fund’. This would include fees, any charges and payment which may be realised by the school for other specified purposes; and any other contributions, endowments, gifts. Income derived by non-aided schools by way of fees will be utilised only for such educational purposes and charges and payments realised and all other contributions, endowments and gifts received by the school will be utilised only for a specific purpose for which they were realised or received. The Act states that even gifts that are not specified shall also be used for academic purpose. 
 
 The Haryana government has made it compulsory for the managing committee of every recognised private school to file every year with the director duly audited financial and other returns. 
 
 Studying the Self Financed Schools (Regulation of Fees) Bill, 2017, an official said the structure proposed in the bill for primary schools is Rs 15,000, for secondary schools Rs 25,000, and for higher secondary schools Rs 27,000 per annum. Under the bill, there is Rs 5 lakh penalty on schools for first offence of overcharging. For second offence, the fine would be between Rs 5 lakh and Rs 10 lakh. If a school violates the norms for the third time, its registration may be cancelled or its no-objection certificate withdrawn. 
 
 “UP needs stringent action as in Gujarat to check private schools from charging arbitrarily,’’ said an official. 
 
