It is being considered as the most dreaded assignment for cops involved in anti-narcotic operations – tackling Nigerian drug peddlers.
 
 Unable to match their agility,   of these suspects, the city cops brace for the worst whenever deployed for drug busts involving  .
 
 The latest to learn that is a six-member team of Central Crime Branch (CCB) that set out to arrest two alleged Nigerian drug peddlers in Beleshivale near Byrathi on Sunday evening. The team members were at the receiving end as the suspects literally went on a biting spree to prevent the cops from pinning them down.
 
 An inspector and a constable had to be rushed to a hospital after they had multiple bite wounds on their hands after the raid.
 
 The biting spree continued for more than 20 minutes and the police literally, at one point, had no other option but to take cover and avoid being bitten whenever they tried to put the suspects in a stranglehold and handcuff them.
 
 Finally however after a traumatic scuffle, the men in khaki prevailed and arrested both men, Ibanugo Chibuike (27) and Nwatu Darlingtom Chijioke (34), both from Nigeria, and booked them for possessing 10 grams of cocaine worth around Rs 2.75 lakh.
 
 “We surrounded the building and one of the inspectors went up and knocked on the door. Three constables were also there. They were not willing to surrender and started pushing and shoving us around. We tried to pin them down and that was when they started biting us indiscriminately,” said another inspector involved in the raid.
 
 The cops said it took them more than 20 minutes to bring the situation under control, and at one point Ibanugo leapt off the third floor balcony on to an extended ledge on the second floor and then hopped down to the first floor; and within seconds were on the ground. But there were two cops downstairs, who intercepted him. The remaining team members brought Nwatu down, but the duo continued to resist arrest. Finally, the team managed to subdue them.
 
 “After we took them into custody, we realised that all of us had bite marks on our hands. Two of us had to go to the hospital and get injections and ointments for skin lesions,” said a constable involved in the raid.
 
 S Ravi, additional commissioner of police (Crime), also pointed out that dealing with Nigerians was proving to be a strenuous task, and that they were seeking permission to procure taser stun guns to immobilize those suspects who were proving to be aggressive and violent during operations.
 
 A case was booked against the Nigerian duo under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act at Kothanur police station.
 
 
