KOZHIKODE:   have arrested a Kannur native and a   (PFI) activist, who has suspected links with the   (IS), from   airport after he was deported from Turkey. 

 V K Shajahan, hailing from Koodali in Kannur district, is being interrogated by various intelligence agencies in Delhi. Another person is also suspected to be in the custody of the police but they have not released any details.
 
 Kerala police said that Shajahan, who was the office-bearer of the Kanhirode area committee of the PFI, had made an attempt to leave for Syria through Turkey in February last. He was detained by the Turkey police and was sent back to India. Since then he has been under surveillance of the intelligence agencies.
 
 According to police, Shajahan evaded the police radar and slipped to Turkey again using a forged passport. "After we realized he is missing, we approached his family members to know the whereabouts, but they said they have no idea," said an officer.
 
 It is believed that Shajahan has contacts with the Malayalis who had earlier left for Syria and Afghanistan to join the Islamic State. Delhi police are examining his mobile phone to find out the links with the other IS members.
 
 The 33-year-old Shajahan is the fourth member of the IS module from Kerala whose connections with the PFI has been established. Shajeer Mangalasseri Abdulla, the leader of the module who was killed in Afghanistan last month, is a known SDPI activist. Manseed and Safwan, the two arrested from Kanakamala in Kannur, are also PFI activists.
 
 Shajahan's Facebook profile accessed by TOI shows that he was working as the accountant of a Malayalam daily with PFI leanings. The photos in the account include that of the Freedom Parade taken out by the PFI.
 
 When contacted, V K Noufal, the Kannur district president of the PFI, confirmed that Shajahan was a member of the organization. "But he was never an office-bearer. He had no contact with the organization for more than last five or six years. We were told that he has been working in Chennai," he said.
 
