NEW DELHI:   from Arunachal, who laid down his life in Kashmir, was   on Thursday for   in   last year. 

 Dada’s sobbing widow, Chasen Lowang, received the country’s   from President Pranab Mukherjee at Rajpath. 
 
 On May 26, 2016, Dada, as Sabu post commander of 35 Rashtriya Rifles (RR), received orders from his commanding officer to block four infiltrators at 12,500 feet in the Shamshabri Ranges in Naugam. Along with his team, the 37-year-old havildar engaged the infiltrators in a fierce gunfight. He charged at the terrorists and shot two of them on the spot. The other two fled and hid behind some boulders.
 
 Spotting two terrorists who had hidden behind boulders, Havildar Hangpan Dada lunged at one. The two were locked in hand-to hand combat, slipping and sliding down the hill, till Dada finally neutralised his opponent. 
 
 However, the fourth terrorist then sprayed bullets into him. Ignoring his grievous wounds, Dada pinned down the shooter and severely injured him. The terrorist was eventually killed but Dada too died of his injuries. “Dada killed three terrorists in the operation single-handedly and his action led to elimination of the fourth terrorist,” the award citation said.
 
 In an official documentary on Dada released by the Army, his buddy Lance Havildar Vareshang of Sabu Post recalls the night of May 26, saying, “It was turning dark but Dada kept motivating us to look for the terrorists. ‘We have to hunt them down’, he told us.” Col Manish Aggarwal, CO of 35 RR, said, “Dada was no ordinary soldier. He was exceptional.” 
 
 Born on October 2, 1979, in Borduria village of Arunachal’s Tirap district, Dada used to run several kilometres and do 25-30 push-ups every day even as a child. 
 
 “I am alive today because of Hangpan Dada,” said Somhang Lamra, a childhood friend whom Dada had once saved from drowning. In the documentary, pastor Pradeep of Don Bosco church of Borduria recalled a devout Dada. “He would kneel and pray at the church in the morning. He once told me, ‘Even if I am asked to give my life, I am ready for it’”. 
 
 Dada joined the 3rd battalion of the Parachute Regiment on October, 28, 1997. In 2005, he was transferred to the Assam Regimental Centre and on January 24, 2008, he joined the 4th battalion of Assam Regiment. He then requested a transfer to an RR battalion engaged in J&K operations. He was posted to 35 RR in May 2016.
 
 Senwang, the braveheart’s six-year-old son, wants to step into his father’s shoes. “I want to be an Army officer,” he said. Senwang and his elder sister Roukhin, 10, keep Dada’s spirit alive by humming songs associated with the Assam Regiment now and then.
 
 “There are not enough words to describe Dada’s bravery. You will run out of ink.” said Laphang Dada, the braveheart’s elder brother.
 
 
 
 
