LUCKNOW: The   culture in   is over a decade old but till date a normal functioning of resident welfare associations (RWAs) and regular maintenance of infrastructure is a big challenge in most societies. The office-bearers of many   say that 100% collection of maintenance charges from residents is a distant dream; even 60-70% is hard to come by, making it difficult to run the society.

 The RWA of the Ganga Apartment that was functioning for the past two years fell flat when all its office-bearers resigned because they were unable to maintain the   due to non-payment of charges by many if its residents. 
 
 “The water supply in two blocks has stopped because there is no one to start the motor-pump. All workers — plumbers, sweepers, electricians have left jobs as we are unable to pay them salaries. Even the security agency has removed its staff. How can the society function when it has no money?”
 
 The LDA, which constructed several towers in Riverview Enclave, was looking after the maintenance for the first three years. But now most RWAs have taken over the responsibility and all of them are facing problem due to apathy of their own residents. “We are yet to be handed over the maintenance responsibility. But even we have to deal with works like daily repairs, park’s maintenance and beautification. For this, we collect meagre charges but still only 60% residents pay. We fear that if same approach continues, it will be difficult to cope when LDA hands over the maintenance and the monthly charges go up,” says Rajiv Nigam, secretary of Shipra apartment in the same locality.
 
  “It was LDA’s flagship apartment project. It should not just wash its hand of the responsibility after handing over. Poor maintenance of these buildings will bring bad name to its other apartment projects as well,” says a resident of Alaknanda apartment. Khalid, state manager in a major housing township told TOI that across their societies, they witness up to 30% defaulters and only those societies are able to survive which have resorted to prepaid mode of payment. 
 
 He says, “In many societies, maintenance charges are attached with the electricity bill, so a consumer is forced to pay in total. Also, it is advised that a government authority should always be monitoring every RWA’s functioning.” Vjay Guranani, secretary of Eldeco Green Cultural Welfare Association says: “We found a very good solution for the problem. We publicly display their names on notice board on entry gate so that every person passing by can see it.”
 
