NOIDA: At least two companies from Noida and   have expressed their interest in applying for a   about two weeks after the regional transport authority (RTA) gave the go-ahead to plying of   in Noida, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr and Hapur. In the past week, the RTA has approved the application of an individual, Mohammed Saif, to operate a bike taxi in Ghaziabad.

 Saif will now get his bike taxi registered at the ARTO (administration) Ghaziabad, following which he can be issued a permit by the RTO depending on whether his bike fulfils all guidelines issued by the RTA.
 
 Ghaziabad RTO Mayank Jyoti told TOI that a sanction from the department would be issued to applicants only after they meet the guidelines prescribed for a bike taxi.
 
 Two companies, one each from Noida (Now Bikes) and Ghaziabad (‘Ek Prayas’), have said that they will soon send an application for getting sanction for starting the bike service in the cities.
 
 Noida-based Now Bikes, which already provides delivery services in Faridabad, was among the first few companies to send a proposal to the state transport authority (STA) in 2015. It is now planning to send an application for a bike taxi service permit within two months.
 
 ‘Ek Prayas’, an NGO from Ghaziabad, has also decided to send a proposal for starting bike taxis by this monthend. “We are planning to send a proposal for getting permits for 100 bikes. These will ply in Noida and Ghaziabad,” D K Pandey, the NGO’s proprietor, said.
 
 However, companies who want to apply for starting a bike taxi service in the region will have to make sure that they have a private parking space to park the vehicles. They will have also have to insure the pillion rider along with the biker.
 
 Gautam Budh Nagar ARTO (administration) Rachna Yaduvanshi said the applicant must show a private space for parking of the vehicles he wants to register. “They have to also follow emission norms and cannot ply in those areas where the buses are already running,” Yaduvanshi said.
 
 On December 30 last year, the bike taxis received the a nod from the RTA almost a year after some companies sent in proposals to the STA for starting the service in the Noida-Ghaziabad region.
 
 
