PANAJI: If by some curious turn of events these 15 candidates are elected, nearly half of the 40-member   will have a peculiar combination of one father-son, two husband-wife teams and four brother duos on the floor.

 The law of averages does not usually allow this to happen, but if a freak result hands them outrageous wins in the February 4 polls, then these families could be in the Goa legislative assembly . 
 
  politics was a major talking point for the opposition, the   (BJP), in the March 2012 polls. Arch rival, the Congress party, had a few of them — the Ranes, Monserrates and Alemaos. 
 
 The opposition BJP-MGP combine found a meaty election propaganda material in the Alemaos, as three of them, former PWD minister, Churchill, his daughter, Valanka, and brother and former urban development minister, Joaquim, were Congress nominees. Joaquim’s son, Yuri, contested as an NCP candidate from Sanguem. This emotive issue was one of the pre-election subjects that helped the BJP stitch a simple majority and form the government. Churchill had, of course, denied that family raj had anything to do with the Congress party’s worst debacle.
 
 That family raj on a smaller scale is acceptable in politics is another matter. No questions seem to have been asked when the BJP accepted the brother-duo of Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ and Pandurang ‘Deepak’ Dhavalikar in the BJP-led cabinet. One of them even got the plum post of PWD.
 
 Dynasty politics cannot be just wished away. This time, 15 candidates with family ties are in the fray, but it is not a talking point in the election campaign. Congress party has former chief minister Pratapsingh Rane and his son, Vishwajit, and Chandrakant Kavlekar and his wife, Savitri. One of the three female candidates and sitting MLA, Jennifer Monserrate is also a Congress nominee in Taleigao constituency. But, her husband, Atanasio Monserrate, is contesting on United Goans Party (UGP) ticket after his recent expulsion from the Congress party.
 
 The younger generation of Alemaos, Yuri and Valanka are not in the contest. But the two old warhorsesChurchill on NCP ticket and Joaquim as an independentare in the race for assembly seats.
 
 The Dhavalikar brothers are inseparable in the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP). The mainstay of the oldest regional party are hoping to get re-elected another time. Speculation was rife that the Madkaikar brothers — Pandurang and Dhaku — may join either the MGP or BJP. In the end Madkaikar entered the BJP, while Dhaku remained single to contest as independent in St Andre.
 
 Another brother duo — the Ticlos, is also in the race. Aldona MLA Glen Ticlo has been renominated by BJP in the same constituency while Wilbur is contesting as an independent in Porvorim.
 
 The electorate may have seen another father-son team on a different strata in politics, that of Union minister for AYUSH Shripad Naik and his son Siddesh. But, Siddesh missed political baptism with Madkaikar joining the BJP and scotching his chances of getting the ticket for the Cumbharjua constituency.
 
 There is also one unusual family raj contest between RDA minister Alina Saldanha and her nephew Olencio Simoes of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).
 
