NAGPUR: A nine-year-old boy,  , was killed in an accident when he came under the rear wheels of a bus while playing in front of his maternal parents’ house at Maiyatree nagar in   locality of north Nagpur on Saturday morning. The bus, which was later seized by   police following the arrest of accused Ranjit Singh Saini (27), belonged to Central India Institute of Polytechnic at Lonara. 

 The Class III student had come to maternal parents’ house to attend the last rites of his maternal grandfather  , a Buddhist monk. 
 
 Sahil’s inconsolable mother Priyanka underwent double tragedies of having to lose father and younger son within 24 hours. Sahil‘s father is a contractor with NMC for providing water tankers. The victim’s elder brother Mayur is a Class IV student. Sahil’s parents stayed in the same locality where his maternal grandparents reside.
 
 According to the family members, Sahil was playing in front of the house when Saini was taking out the bus for his daily duty at the institute. It was a sharp turn near Ramteke’s residence where the incident took place. Due to haphazard parking on the right side of the turning, Saini had to take an extra space towards the left to such an extent that his bus got off the road. Sahil, who was playing close to the roadside near the turn, came under the wheels of the bus, the family members said.
 
 Sahil’s maternal grandmother Shobhabai said, “Sahil’s mother was alerted by her elder son after he saw his younger brother lying on the ground. One side of the face and head of Sahil had got crushed. Priyanka first rushed him inside the house but later taken to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead,” she said.
 
 After the accident, the Sahil’s family members and their friends tried to attack Saini’s relatives who stay in the house adjacent to that of the victim’s maternal parents, leading to police bundobust in the locality. 
 
 A section of the local residents, supporting Sahil’s family, raised question on the manner in which the bus was parked in the narrow lane. “It was unfortunate that Sahil had got crushed under the bus but it could have been anyone or a child. In fact, the entire locality has got illegally parked trucks along the road on either side,’ said a local resident. 
 
 Senior PI CM Bahadure of Jaripatka police station said that driver of the killer bus had tried to flee with the bus and later abandoned it. “We will ensure that the grieved family get justice at the earliest,” he said. 
 
 
