GADAG: Five persons had a providential escape when their bus overturned after it was stranded in an overflowing stream in Shirahatti taluk of Gadag district. Following heavy rain on Sunday, many streams here were flooded.

 The state-run NWKSRTC bus, going to Yellapur from Laxmeshwar on Monday, got stuck when the driver tried to cross the inundated road adjacent to Doddur Halla stream in Shirahatti taluk. Villagers rushed to the spot and rescued the passengers, driver and a youth, with the help of a rope.
 
 Unseasonal rain, coupled with thunder and hailstorms, has been lashing the districts of Dharwad, Gadag and Bagalkot for a week. There were reports of rain from Mulgund, Mundaragi, Laxmeshwar, Shirahatti and Naregal.
 
 According to Doddur residents, the bus plunged into the stream when the driver decided to negotiate the inundated bridge, around 7.30am. “It plunged 20-30m from the road and was caught in bushes and trees. When we heard the passengers shouting for help, we rushed and started rescuing them with a rope,“ said Mahantesh Ragati, one of villagers.
 
 He said water was flowing at a height of about 5ft, and the bridge was submerged. As the bridge is at a lower level than the adjacent road, the rescue was risky . “We had gathered to watch the flooded stream and warned the driver not to move further. However, he did not heed our warning,“ he added.
 
 Villagers swiftly arranged a rope and threw it into the bus, where the driver and conductor tied it to a window. The passengers came out holding the rope, and reached the bank.
 
 Ramappa Basappa Lamani, 65, one of the three passengers, said he had lost hope of returning alive. “We heard the villagers shouting, but couldn't understand what they were trying to tell us. I was scared to hang on to a rope and wade back, but there was no other way . I first waited for the others and then followed, praying as I held the rope. The force of the water was high, and we could barely hear the instructions,“ he said.The other passengers,  , 18, and Halappa Ramappa Lamani, 55, were thankful to the villagers.
 
 Driver   said he couldn't hear the villagers' warning. “Though I saw a group of villagers watching the stream, I thought they were shouting among themselves,“ he said, and was endorsed by conductor AS Elabanavi.
 
 SM Garag, depot manager, Laxmeshwar depot, NWKRTC, said it was a wrong decision by the driver. “A sand lorry had passed just before the bus, so he followed it. But the lorry was carrying a weight of about 20tonne while bus had a weight of just 6-7 tonne, so it was pushed to the left by the water.The driver should not have taken the risk,“ he said. He said there were no technical glitches in the bus.
 
