Panaji: The state government is trying to come up with a face-saving exit on the contentious   Farms Pvt Ltd distillery and brewery proposed at Amdai. With coalition partner GFP staking its political future on the   Promotion Board-cleared project,CM Manohar Parrikar has offered the promoters land in an industrial estate.

 Parrikar, on Monday, said in the assembly that the project had been kept on hold till the government reviews the project. “I agree a lot of trees were cut, but it has to be reviewed properly,” he said.
 
 In the run up to the state assembly elections, GFP had launched a campaign demanding scrapping of the project and the strategy worked for the party.
 
 The CM told the opposition, “We are ready to withhold license of any project if inadequacies are found.” 
 
 But sources said the government was already in talks with Vani Agro Farms to ask them to shift to another area.
 
 “If the project was to be cancelled, then the CM would have directly said so. The government has already proposed to relocate the project to an industrial estate and most likely they will take it up,” a government official said.
 
 On June 29, TOI had reported that the Investment Promotion Board would find a please all solution for Vani Agro Farms.
 
 The Investment Promotion Board had cleared the project in January 2015 and notified a   orchard as an investment promotion zone in Amdai village, in  . The distillery and brewery project was to come up on a 12-hectare plot which has at least 500 coconut trees. The project involves a reported investment of Rs 78 crore for the distillery and Rs 60 crore for a brewery.
 
 Sources said that shifting the brewery and distillery to an industrial estate would be a win-win solution for the government as well as GFP.
 
 “What the chief minister meant by putting the project on hold is that the other available options are being looked at. The project is very much on,” a source said.
 
 The Delhi-based company had kicked up a storm in the state over concerns that over 600 coconut trees would be chopped in the state to make way for the brewery. The chief executive officer J S Tyagi had at that time countered that just 100-odd coconut trees would be cut down but that did not stop GFP from launching a coconut campaign in the state and making coconut its party symbol.
 
 Sardesai has staked his political future on the shutting down or shifting the project.
 
 As per the proposal, Vani Agro Farms was granted a permit to produce 36.50 litres (alcohol) per month while the effluent discharge per day was pegged at 315 kilolitres, which was questioned by various agencies.
 
 
