PUNE: State education minister   threatened to lodge a police complaint against two students of a   over phone on February 14 after receiving scores of text messages demanding rollback of the government’s decision to convert the institution into an engineering college. He allegedly told one of them that he would close the facility by the evening if the SMS campaign did not stop.

 Irked after receiving nearly 1,000-1,500 SMSs, he personally called up the two students and threatened to lodge police complaint if they did not stop sending the text messages. He also demanded a written apology from the second student he had called.
 
 Tawde said the text messages were politically motivated by the Students’ Federation of India (SFI). He told TOI, “I received 500-600 text messages in three hours. It was torture. Why can’t I complain to the police for causing this torture to me?”
 
 The students, on the other hand, claimed Tawde sounded extremely arrogant while he spoke to their peers over the phone. They stressed they had only requested the minister to review the decision to convert the polytechnic college into an engineering college because their future was at stake.
 
 The state government had issued a circular (dated October 13) last year for the conversion of the polytechnic college into an engineering college despite all seats being filled up ever year. It stated all the students studying in the college would be allowed to pass out. The upgrade would be done thereafter.
 
 The college students started sending SMSs on February 14, requesting Tawde to withdraw the decision because it was the only institution in the region offering diploma courses. Senior officials in the college said those participating in the SMS campaign consisted of a few students of the institution, its alumni and SFI members.
 
 Aditya Gaikwad, one of the two students who received a call from Tawde, said, “I was shocked to get a call from the minister. He told me he would file a police complaint for torturing him with so many text messages. He also asked me to apologize in writing and threatened to lodge a police complaint if the apology did not come in 10 minutes.”
 
 Tawde allegedly told the other student he had called that the messages had not yet stopped pouring in and he would take an extreme decision regarding the college. The student said on the condition of anonymity, “The minister told me if the messages did not stop coming in within an hour, he would issue an official letter for the closure of the polytechnic. The minister told me that he would provide the proof of the messages with snapshot in his letter. He said he would write in the letter that the students tortured him with text messages and so he decided to shut down the college.”
 
 Several protest rallies were organized after the circular to upgrade the polytechnic college was issued. The students and alumni of the institution as well as the SFI had sent application to the education department.
 
 State secretary of SFI   said, “The students felt their voices should be heard. Since the government is into promoting digital India, we addressed the issue by sending text messages to the minister. But it took an ugly turn with the minister telling students he would lodge a police complaint.”
 
 Chavan said many students came under pressure after the minister made calls and stopped protesting against the issue.
 
