PUNE: The   (MoD) has sought views from the Indian Navy and the   on integration of intelligence training units of all the three wings of the armed forces 

 As of now, the intelligence training establishments of all the three services are at different places. This includes the Army’s Military Intelligence Training School and Depot in Pune. Officers from the Navy and Air Force attend professional intelligence courses at this Army intelligence unit. It is the most likely place to be converted into a proposed integrated training establishment. 
 
 Such integration was one of the recommendations made by the Lt Gen D B Shekatkar committee appointed by former Defence Minister   to examine and recommend steps to enhance the combat potential of the armed forces and re-balance defence expenditure. 
 
 The committee had submitted its report to Parrikar last year. The panel recommended conversion of the Army’s intelligence training unit in Pune into a tri-services training establishment. 
 
 A top source in the Army told TOI on the condition of anonymity, “The MoD has already sought views from the Navy and Air Force. Once we get their views, further action will be taken.”
 
 Speaking to TOI, Shekatkar said, “It is imperative to integrate intelligence training of the three services for security challenges. Terrorist attacks like the 26/11 in Mumbai, the attack on Parliament and the recent attack on Pathankot air base could have been prevented had the forces had better intelligence inputs on time. The forces must work together and share intelligence with effectively.”
 
 Unless officers from the three services are trained together, they will not know how to function together, he added. Having three different training establishments for the same objective is not advisable. It is a waste of manpower and expenditure. 
 
 Though, the Defence Intelligence Agency (DIA) was established in 2002 for providing and coordinating intelligence for the forces, it has not yielded a desired result so far, sources in the defence said. 
 
 A senior army officer, who has served extensively in the Northern sector, said, “The services are often not keen on sharing their intelligence with each other. This has come to notice on several occasions in the past and has affected operations too. Therefore, a combined intelligence training of the three services is necessary and it would play a decisive role for the armed forces in the near future,”
 
 The committee also suggested the establishment of a   College for training for middle-level officers (the higher command course for instance) even as the three separate War Colleges—currently at Mhow, Secunderabad and Goa—for Army, Air Force and Navy could continue to train younger officers.
 
