LUCKNOW: Despite PM  's `Advisory', There Is No Dearth Of Kin Of Prominent BJP Leaders Seeking Chance To Contest UP Election
Prime Minister Narendra Modi's suggestion to BJP leaders not to seek ticket for their kith and kin notwithstanding, there is a growing number of relatives and supporters of prominent leaders staking their claim through different means -from posters to hoardings, and also word of mouth.
 “Please don't put pressure for securing tickets for your family members, whether a brother, a sister or children. Party will do justice to all. We have to work unitedly to win all the five states,“ the PM had said a couple of days ago in bid to ensure that party president   got a free hand in the distribution of tickets.
 
 However, if one goes by the words doing the round in the BJP circle, lobbying -direct or by proxy -by these high-profile kin for the party's tickets is going on for long.
 
 Union home Minister  's son Pankaj Singh is probably the most `visible' among them. His posters came up at many points in Lucknow and other places of the state -all of them put up by his supporters.
 
 Although these posters don't mention whether Pankaj -a general secrertary in the party's state unit -would be the party's candidate, sources in the BJP reveal that he is in contetion for a ticket from Ghaziabad, Noida or his na tive place Chandauli.
 
 Similarly, posters and hoardings of Rohit Mishra, the son of Union minister Kalraj Misra, can be seen in Lucknow (East) area, greeting people on various occasions. Kalraj won from this constiuency in 2012 but later won the Lok Sabha elections from Deoria in 2014and became a minister. The man who replaced him in the bypoll -Ashutosh Tandon -is also the son of a BJP veteran, Lalji Tandon. Ashutosh won the bypoll and is a strong contedner this year as well.
 
 Sources reveal there are many other close rela tives of prominent leaders in race to get the tickets -Banda MP Bhairon Prasad Misra's son Ravi Misra from Chitrakoot, Agra MP and former minister  's wife Kairana MP Hukum Singh's daughter. Besides, Rajeev Lochan, the son of former chief minister Ram Prakash Gupta is also believed to be in the race for a ticket from Lucknow and so is Mayank Joshi, the son of former UPCC chief Rita Bahuguna Joshi, who quit Congress to join BJP recently, a section of BJP leaders told TOI.
 
 Other names in circulation are that of Amit Gupta, the son of former MLA from Lucknow, Vidyasagar Gupta and another former MLA Chandrashekhar Tewari's son Babloo Trivedi.
 
 When asked, UP in charge of the party, Om Mathur, said that seeking ticket was no sin. “But everyone should wait for the list of the candidates to be released before reaching any conclusion.“
 
