CHENNAI:   seeking a   from the   of India (AAI) now face a smooth ride as the public sector airport operator has made the   transparent and integrated it with the servers of   

 The AAI has introduced a NOCAS (No Objection Certificate Application System) through which applications can be made online to get height clearance for structures such as buildings, masts, chimneys and billboards, and water tanks. This is to safeguard the airspace in and around civil airports as per the rules laid down by the ministry of civil aviation. The system was launched two years ago but all its components have been made online now. 
 
 An official said that all tall buildings constructed in the city require an NoC from the AAI to ensure that airport officials are aware of potential obstacles for flight operations. As per the rule, tall buildings are not permitted in the approach funnel – the area needed for planes to glide in and take off from an airport and the safety buffer zone. 
 
 The Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority’s master plan states that an NOC must be obtained from the director general of civil aviation if the height of construction in sites located within 20 kilometres from the reference point of aerodromes is 30 metres or above. 
 
 Similarly, there are height restrictions for buildings in the vicinity of airport. For instance, the maximum permissible height above the elevation of the nearest runway end in areas 660-810 metres away is 12 metres. A colour-coded zoning map of the city is available for applicants to locate their property and find out the permissible height.
 
 The advisor of the Federation of Pozhichalur Welfare Association T Ravindranathan welcomed the move saying the initiative will help building owners obtain NOCs from the AAI at the click of a mouse. "It will make the process transparent and hassle-free," he said.
 
 Despite the NoC system being available, AAI is grappling with building violations near Chennai airport. Many buildings jut into the air space on the approach path of flights coming in to land at the extended second runway. The authorities had to tweak the path to avoid the obstacles as requests to municipalities to remove the violations failed to yield action.
 
 
