HYDERABAD: With minimum temperatures sharply varying between districts, the revenue (disaster management) department is mulling revision of threshold limits of temperatures of districts. Now,   has fixed a criteria for declaring a heatwave, if day temperatures touch 45 degrees. And severe heatwave warnings would be declared if temperatures soar to 47 degree Celsius.For instance, minimum temperatures recorded in districts are high. And these include Nalgonda, Adilabad, Mahbubnagar and towns like Ramagudam, Godavarikhani, Mancherial, Bhadrachalam and  , where heatwave days are more compared to other districts.

 “The state government is working on revising threshold limits of temperatures based on local weather conditions for each district and town,“ special commissioner of State Disaster Management Sada Bhargavi told TOI.
 
 Officials said fixing the limit is necessary as the revenue department with help from information technology (IT) department is working on sending bulk text messages and Whatsapp messages to citizens by categorizing temperatures into three levels. If the temperatures are between 40 and 44, it will be green, 45 to 46 it will amber and red if the temperatures touches 47 degree Celsius. “These messages cannot be uniform in each town and district. Minimum temperatures have to be reworked,“ said another official of revenue department.
 
 The state government asked district collectors to implement an action plan for heatwave conditions due to soaring temperatures in February. Both   and disaster management departments record and monitor heatwave conditions from April every year. The department has predicted heatwave days will be more this year.
 
 Sources said number of heatwave days in summer of 2016 were 42 and it was 35 in 2015. The highest temperature recorded in recent years 46 days in 2010 and 43 days in 2013.
 
 Most heatwave victims, according to a three-member committee appointed by the government, are families below poverty line and engaged in outdoor occupations.
 
 Officials said, the state government has been giving Rs 50,000 ex gratia to each person under Apathbandu scheme and now it is being proposed to enhance the amount under different schemes.
 
