NEW DELHI: Various Opposition parties, which are also making moves for a broader unity against BJP in the run-up to the presidential polls, are now planning to host a national meet in the Capital on the deepening crisis in  . They may use the opportunity to exchange views with stakeholders, independent observers, intellectuals and activists in an attempt to draft an alternative vision and approach for defusing the volatile situation in J&K and resuming political initiative.
 
  The move coincides with Opposition leaders thinking that the Centre and the state government have hit the wall in dealing with the J&K situation. After many Opposition leaders informally exchanged their concern,   leader   met former prime minister   on Tuesday to place the proposal.
  
  Yadav said the meeting with Singh was due to two reasons: First, to tap the experience of the former PM who had dealt with the J&K issue with a degree of comparative success during the 10 years of UPA rule; Second, Singh was recently appointed chairman of the newlyconstituted Congress Programme-Policy Committee on J&K.
  
  During the meeting, Yadav also proposed that the Opposition should co-opt the civil society group led by BJP leader  . Sinha’s team, which had interacted extensively with J&K leaders and stakeholders and prepared a report, was yet to get an opportunity to meet the prime minister and present its findings.
  
  “Given the grave situation in J&K and the failure of the NDA regime and PDP-BJP government to politically deal with it, there is a need for likeminded Opposition parties and other independent activists and observers of J&K to jointly work and present before the nation an alternative vision for political initiative in Kashmir.
  
  Manmohan ji and I discussed it today and there are many other parties, intellectuals, experts and citizens’ groups such as the one headed by Yashwant Sinha thinking along similar lines,” Yadav told ET.
  
  Singh is learnt to have positively responded to the idea and recalled how his government had constituted a committee of three interlocutors on J&K. Singh is expected to take up the proposal with the Congress leadership, which is likely to reach out to other Opposition parties and stakeholders.
  
  Many Opposition parties, including Congress, Left, JDU, NCP, TMC, etc, are in favour of resuming political dialogue with mainstream parties and stakeholders, including Hurriyat. 
