Nagpur: A civil case, pending since 1951, was finally settled by the Supreme Court recently. Touted as oldest pending litigation of Central India, it was a bitterly fought legal battle between two families from Amravati over a two-storeyed dwelling. The petitioners — Bodhankar family — challenged a sale deed of July 9, 1951, for the house terming it as bogus and never intended to be acted upon. The case was listed before SC’s division bench comprising Justice Arun Misra and Justice Amitava Roy. According to Chimote’s lawyers Mohan Sudame and Manish Pitale, the dispute began in 1951 when their client purchased the home for Rs 25,000, but it was later attached by creditors. After fighting with the creditors, who wanted to auction the house and realize debt from 1953 to 1967, right up to Supreme Court, the title of house was ultimately declared with the Chimote family. One Dhapubhai Bhoot had attached the disputed property of as per decree obtained in civil suit of 1947. However, after attachment Shankarrao Bodhankar, the original house owner, executed sale deed in favour of Ramchandra Chimote. It was claimed that since he had borrowed the loan from latter for business, it was adjusted towards consideration of Rs25,000, which was final price for the deal. In 1953, Chimote filed objection on attachment of execution of house filed by Dhoot on the basis of his sale deed with original owner. It led to series of unending litigations that finally ended up after the apex court ruling. After objection raised by Chimotes towards attachment of property was rejected by Amravati court, they filed a civil suit for lifting of attachment. After Amravati’s additional district judge ruled in their favour on November 10, 1956, Bhoot challenged it in a first appeal in the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court. In July 1962, the HC held that the sale deed executed in Chimote’s favour was sham, nominal and not intended to be acted upon. The case went till the top court which ruled in Chimote’s favour. After a break of some years, Bodhankar’s son restarted the litigation in 1972 contending that sale of property was nominal and not real. The trial court decreed the suit in his favour holding that transaction was unreal. However, single judge bench at Nagpur HC reversed the finding in first appeal filed by Chimote. Later, Bodhankar preferred a Letters Patent Appeal (LPA) which was dismissed by the HC’s division bench. It was then challenged it in the apex court through Special Leave Petition (SLP) through counsels C Basant, Kishor Lambat and Anagha Desai, which came to be dismissed.