Chandigarh: The Indian challenge came to a disappointing end at the Junior Asia Badminton Championship in Jakarta, Indonesia. There were 22 young shuttlers – both boys and girls – who proved to be a letdown. The maximum a player could reach were the quarterfinals. A lot was expected from the under-19 men’s doubles top seeded team of Krishna Prasad Garaga and Dhruv Kapila. But, the duo failed to live up to their reputation and suffered a shocking 21-23, 11-21 defeat to the Malaysian combine of Wei Jie Chia and Tze Yong Ng.

 In mixed doubles, Kapila and Mithila UK could not continue their brilliant from earlier tournaments and succumbed to an 18-21, 11-21 defeat at the hands of the Korean pair of Sung Seung Na and Ah Yeong Seong. Kapila and Mithila had put up a fine display of resilience in their third round match when they beat Yeremia Erich Yoche Yacob and Ribka Sugiarto, 15-21, 21-17, 21-19.
 
 Meanwhile, in the women’s singles fifth seed Aakarshi Kashyap went down to the fourth seeded Chinese Han Yue, 8-21, and 16-21 in what was a one-sided affair. Interestingly, Kashyap had not even dropped a game till the quarterfinals stage.
 
 Kashyap was the biggest medal hope remaining in the singles section after the men’s singles World No. 1 Lakshya Sen was sent packing in the fourth round. Lakshya Sen’s campaign came to a screeching halt as he was handed a shock fourth round defeat at the Badminton Asia Junior Championships in Jakarta, Indonesia on Thursday. The top seed squandered a one-game lead to succumb to a narrow 21-13, 23-25, and 20-22 defeat to low-ranked Chinese Taipei player Lin Chun-Yi in the men’s U-19 section.
 
 Talking exclusively to TOI from Indonesia, Sanjay Mishra, head coach of the Indian junior team, said, “I am not disappointed but in fact happy with their performance. The team played really well but one has to remember that we were in a tough group that included China and Korea. Against Korea, it was a closely-contested tie and we gave everything but it wasn’t just enough to outplay them.
 
 “Lakshay was unbeaten in team championship and in doubles category, our pairing of Dhruv/Mithila and in mixed doubles category, it was pairing of Dhruv/Krishna who performed exceptionally well for us. Overall, the experience has been good for the players. They had good amount of exposure which will further help them in their performance,” he added.
 
 
