MOHALI: Half of the time, I was trained overseas because we lacked in infrastructure, this is what Olympian and ace shooter   said while answering a question from audience here during the city's first TEDx Chandigarh at  , Mohali, on Sunday. He added that India needs to focus more on resources for sports. Bindra shared his experiences of the whole journey of his success as a gold medalist in Olympics a question and answer session. At first, the question-answer session was between curator Simarpreet Singh and Bindra, which was followed by questions from audience. 

 While sharing his experiences, Bindra said that he had learnt more from his mistakes than his successes and he was one of his biggest critics himself. Acknowledging the role of his alma mater St Stephen's school of Chandigarh and the school founder principal  , he said that St Stephen's school was very cooperative with him and his game, especially Carver.
 
 The TEDx Chandigarh saw people coming in from all walks of life attending the event. There were more than 500 people for a full house at ISB Mohali. Adventurer, artist, traveller, activist   shared her story about how a want to compare pictures drawn by her elementary school kids and the kids from tribal area made her visit  . After this, she decided to visit as many tribal areas she could and teach them as well as learn from them. Like this, she became the uncommon traveller. At the age of 80, she has already been to a lot places and still continues to travel.
 
 Arun Sundar, thought leader from  , talked about how everyone can we can stand above our materialistic approach and become a social capitalist.  , founder of Khalsa Aid, motivated audience to stand up together above personal interests and work for humanity and not let the religion of a person be a hindrance.
 
 Top quotes of Abhinav Bindra at TEDx Chandigarh
 
 > A medal goes on the wall. It's the process and journey that's important
 
 >Be completely honest to yourself
 
 >Shooting, it went on and on for 22 years of my life
 
 >The success is nice, but outcome matters
 
 > I have learnt more from my mistakes than my successes
 
