LUCKNOW: Rebellion by   ranks in favour of BJP is passe. The phenomenon of desertion now appears to have hit the   (all India Backward and Minority Communities Employees Federation), the organisation founded by BSP founder Kanshiram in 1972.

 Once a hardcore BAMCEF member, Vishnu Dev Prasad has quietly switched over to   and is now a seeker for BJP ticket from Soraon reserved assembly seat in Allahabad.
 
 Prasad, a teacher by profession, got associated with BAMCEF in 2003 and started working among the BSP’s grassroot cadre. A Jatav, the caste to which BSP chief   belongs too, Prasad soon got elevated as BAMCEF's district convener and entrusted with the responsibility to spread BSP’s ideology. His affinity towards Mayawati grew stronger after 2007 when BSP stormed to power with absolute majority.
 
 With a doctorate in economics and currently teaching in a degree college in Allahabad, Prasad grew ambitious and sought a ticket from Mayawati in 2012 assembly elections but she denied it to him. “Initially, I kept working for the BAMCEF but later thought of looking for better avenues,” said Prasad, confirming that he had joined the RSS.
 
 He claimed that BAMCEF had started losing direction. “The organisation got restricted to collection of donations and passing it on to the party,” he said, adding that it left no room for political aspirations. “Humein to rajneeti mein aana hi tha... (I had to join politics),” he said. The emergence of Narendra Modi during 2014 Lok Sabha further inspired Prasad to leave the ‘Blue’ and get into the ‘saffron’ fold. “Modiji ke aane se badlaav aane ki ummid jaagi...aur maine Sangh ka haath thaam liya... (when Modi came to power, it gave rise to hope of change, so I joined the Sangh),” he said.
 
 Prasad said he met BJP MP from   and joined his Hindu Yuva Vahini, a socio-cultural group which claims seek to provide the right wing Hindu platform. “I had studied in Gorakhpur and had seen the work of Yogi Avaidhyanath, spiritual guru of Adityanath and former Hindu Mahasabha president and was inspired to join the saffron group,” he said.
 
 Prasad said he had sought ticket to contest from Soraon assembly seat. “There are many contenders for that ticket,’’ he said.
 
 
