NEW DELHI:  ,   and a great friend of the country, died on Thursday after a brief illness. He was 67. Kadakin was one of the longest serving envoys for any country here and spent a significant part of his life working to promote  .

 He held the position of head of the   in New Delhi from November 2009. This, in fact, was his second stint as ambassador to India. He headed Russia’s mission in India also between 1999 and 2004. Before that, in the early 70s, he had served as a third secretary in the Russian mission.
 
 “Starting from 1971, the entire diplomatic career of Alexander Kadakin was closely associated with promoting Russian-Indian relations,” the Russian embassy said in a statement.
 
 Despite the perception in some quarters here about India’s ties with Russia being adrift, attributed mainly to India’s strategic embrace of the US, the outspoken Kadakin firmly held until the end that no country, not even the US, could replace Russia as India’s number one strategic partner. “Unlike others, we’ll always be with you when you most need us,” he told this correspondent once.
 
 According to Kadakin, India-Russia ties, as he told this correspondent in an interview some years ago, had actually become stronger than was the case in the Soviet era.
 
 “What we now have is more of pragmatic affection than romantic infatuation of the days of Hindi-Rusi bhai bhai,” he had said, as he spoke about the nature of defence and nuclear cooperation between the two countries.
 
 The remarkable shift in world geopolitics in the past few years has seen Russia, much to the detriment of India’s interests, engaging the Afghan Taliban apparently to defeat Islamic State. It may be worthwhile for India though to recall before the Russians Kadakin’s own words which he used in an interview to TOI in 2010 to describe the Taliban.
 
 “Moderate Taliban is an oxymoron. It’s like saying moderate Nazi or moderate Fascist,” he had said.
 
 Kadakin also stood out among the diplomatic community for his fondness for Indian culture and language. His proficiency in the Hindi language drew instant admiration from those meeting him for the first time.
 
 While being interviewed by TOI, he lamented that Indians rarely spoke correct or ‘shuddh’ Hindi and instead preferred a mishmash of Hindi and English. To emphasise his point, he chided this correspondent for not pronouncing the Hindi word for proliferation correctly.
 
 PM Narendra Modi put out a tweet on Thursday describing Kadakin as an admirable diplomat who contributed tirelessly to India-Russia ties and also mentioned Kadakin’s fluency in Hindi.
 
 Another reason he was very popular here was that Kadakin always seemed tough on Pakistan even while maintaining that the two countries needed to talk to resolve their disputes. In the same interview to TOI, Kadakin insisted that Russian satellite imagery had shown that there were 40 terror camps run by groups like LeT on the Pakistan-Afghanistan border and that Islamabad had done nothing to dismantle these. As fate would have it, he died at a time Russia’s strategic overtures to Pakistan are increasingly giving sleepless nights to India’s foreign policy mandarins.
 
