ROHTAK/CHANDIGARH: The members of Jat community in Haryana continued their agitation in 18 districts of the state on Monday seeking reservation in government jobs amid other demands.

 More protesters joined the agitation on the second day while security forces and authorities were on high alert in all the districts.
 
 The dharnas remained peaceful in 18 districts, officials said.
 
  (AIJASS) president Yashpal Malik said from February 3, Jats would hold dharnas in Delhi in support of those agitating in Haryana. “On February 3, we will begin a dharna at Narela and then on the following days, dharnas will be held in 11 districts of Delhi,” he said.
 
 The call for the fresh stir has been given by some Jat outfits, especially those owing allegiance to AIJASS.
 
 Since Sunday, the members of Jat community have been staging peaceful dharnas at Ramayan village near Hisar-Bhiwani railway track, Jolilath village on Sonipat-Gohana road, Jassia village on Rohtak highway, Rasalwala Chowk in Jhajjar, Umrakheri village near Panipat-Shamli road, Bala village near Assandh road in Karnal and at some other places.
 
 From Tuesday, the agitation would begin in a couple of more districts, Malik said.
 
 Meanwhile, AIJASS threatened to boycott Haryana cabinet ministers if they fail to come out in support of their demands and ask the state government to fulfil the same.
 
 Addressing the gathering during a dharna on National Highway-71A, AIJASS general secretary Ashok Balhara said they never wanted to stage a sit-in but were forced to do so after the BJP-led government in Haryana stabbed them in the back.
 
 Most leaders of the samiti targeted Kurukshetra MP Raj Kumar Saini for his “provocative” speeches against the community earlier. “Our innocent children were arrested for rioting, while MP Saini is still enjoying the privileges of government,” they said.
 
 Calling for restraint and urging public to not make any inflammatory speeches, they even stopped some youths who tried to incite passions by speaking on the mike.
 
 On pitching tents along the NH-71A instead of the designated spot, AIJASS leaders claimed said the land where they had got permission to use was soggy after the recent rain and that they would move there after a day or so, when it dried up.
 
 They reminded the gathering that AIJASS convener Yashpal Malik would arrive on February 1 to celebrate the birth anniversary of legendary peasant leader Sir Chhotu Ram.
 
 Senior administrative and police officials, including Rohtak deputy commissioner Atul Kumar and superintendent of police (SP) Pankaj Nain, made repeated rounds of the protest site to take stock of the situation.
 
 Those sitting on dharna in Sector 6, Rohtak, under the banner of   said they would start a hunger strike from Tuesday to press for their demand. 
 
 Box: Call services suspended in Jhajjar
 
 In Jhajjar district, the district administration ordered the suspension of all calling services, including internet services like 2G, 3G, 4G, edge, voice calls and GPRS, SMS services and bulk messages provided on mobile networks from 8 am to 6 pm on a daily basis with immediate effect. “Any person found guilty or in violation of these orders would be punished under Section 188 of the IPC,” said Jhajjar district magistrate Ramesh Chander Bidhan. The authorities have ordered that all liquor shops within the jurisdiction of five km around Rasalwala chowk and Jhajjar-Bahadurgarh Road in Jhajjar district would remain closed till further orders.
 
 Fatehabad deputy commissioner N K Solanki said that borders of the district have been sealed and police personnel have been deployed at all important markets, residential areas and government and private institutions. He said that heavy police force has been deployed near the venue of dharna at   in Fatehabad town to control any situation.
 
 Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Sumedha Kataria imposed Section 144 in the district, prohibiting open sale of petrol, diesel and other inflammable materials. Owners of petrol pumps have been instructed not to sell petrol or diesel to owners of unregistered vehicles or those without number plates, she said.
 
 Sirsa deputy commissioner Sharandeep Kaur Brar urged the people to inform them immediately if they find any anti-social element trying to vitiate the peaceful atmosphere. Strict action would be taken against such anti-social elements, she said. The DC has also directed the officers concerned to ensure that no objectionable audio or video or any other material which could disrupt the peace is telecast or broadcast through social media like cable TV, Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp. She also advised the people not to post any comment or information without verifying it.
 
