LUCKNOW: After jointly attending a lunch hosted by   president Sonia Gandhi, BSP chief   and SP president   might come together for a rally in Uttar Pradesh for the first time. 

 The idea of a joint rally was mooted at Friday’s lunch event when   chief Lalu Yadav asked Mayawati and Akhilesh to come forward and help host big political congregations of anti-BJP parties across the country.
 
 SP MP Naresh Agarwal confirmed that the idea of organizing joint rallies was floated and unanimously agreed upon by all anti-BJP parties at the event. 
 
 “A joint opposition is the need of the hour to take on the  ,” he told TOI. He said that a rally would be organized after the one by RLD chief Lalu Yadav in Patna on August 27 after the presidential elections.
 
 While senior BSP leaders could not be contacted for comments, sources privy to the meeting said the BSP supremo endorsed the idea, categorically dismissing the notion of her shunning the anti-BJP front. 
 
 “I am 100% with you,” she was quoted as saying.
 
 The idea of a joint rally by Mayawati and Akhilesh could give a fillip to shaping up of the much anticipated anti-BJP front ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The coming together of Akhilesh and Mayawati has been widely speculated after the two regional satraps faced a complete rout at the hands of the BJP during the recent UP assembly elections. 
 
 In fact, the last parliamentary elections saw Mayawati’s BSP getting reduced to a zero, while SP was restricted to just five seats.
 
 Lalu and   chief Mamta Banerjee are also learnt to have been trying to convince both Mayawati and Akhilesh to join hands for taking on the BJP in the forthcoming Lok Sabha elections. In fact, on Friday, Lalu pressed for the unity in the specific context of UP, arguing that a joint platform of SP, BSP and Congress would win 70 Lok Sabha seats.
 
 SP and BSP have never been together since 1993 when the two political parties entered a pre-poll alliance ahead of the state elections, which they won. The animosity between the two arch rivals has only been increasing after 1995, when Mayawati was attacked in the state guesthouse after she pulled the rug from under the then SP government headed by Mulayam Singh Yadav, leading to its downfall.
 
