PANCHKULA: A suicide of a 16-year-old boy turned out to be the first case of suspected   on Monday when the maternal uncle of the victim boy in his investigation found the signs of   in the boy’s notebook.
 
 The boy – identified as  , a resident of Sector-4 – committed suicide by hanging self from the ceiling fan on Saturday morning in his room located on the first floor of the house. Cops were called upon and a general case of suicide was registered in Sector-5 police station on Saturday and the last rites of the boy were also done by the family members on Sunday in Panchkula.
 
 
  
 On Sunday night, the maternal uncle of Karan, Rajiv Thakur, was checking the schoolbag of Karan at his house and while inspecting, Rajiv found there were six diagrams made by Karan on the fourth last page of one of his rough notebooks showing six different ways to commit suicide, including jumping off the roof, by coming in contact of train, coming in contact of car, by drowning, hanging self from ceiling fan and by cutting hand veins.
  
 Karan, under the drawings, also wrote ‘I should just die, I don’t deserve to live’, ‘no one like me, no one care whether I live or I die’, 'no one love me, they just use me'.
  
 When the family members raised the issue with cops on Monday, a team of cops and forensic team started their investigation on Monday and the room of Karan was taken under investigation by the cops.
 
 Family members also said that Karan used to tell them that one of his friends is playing a Blue Whale game and nobody should ever play this game as it is dangerous for life.
 
 Karan also blocked one of his best friends on Facebook as part of the Blue Whale game, asked for horror movies from a cousin, and changed his WhatsApp display picture and status into a horrific one.
 
 Parents took Karan to a psychiatrist when Karan asked them 20 days back that he is addicted to some mobile game and needs a doctor's advise. But due to non-availability of the doctor that day, parents returned home and thought of visiting a doctor some other day. 
 
 Karan used to play cricket and it was his dream to be a pace bowler, said family members.
 
 Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP), Anshu Singla, said, “We are investigating the matter. Details would be shared after the investigation.”
 
 
 
 
 Six diagrams were made by Karan showing six different ways to commit suicide including jumping off the roof, by coming in contact of train, coming in contact of car, by drowning, hanging self with ceiling fan and by cutting hand veins on the fourth last page of one of his rough notebooks. Karan, under the drawings, also wrote ‘I should just die, I don’t deserve to live’, ‘no one like me, no one care whether I live or I die’, 'no one love me, they just use me'.
 
