Madurai: As the protest for jallikattu rages on, moderate showers in the last two days have brought much-needed solace to the drought-hit region. Many of the protesters described the showers as an auspicious sign.

 “Villagers around Alanganallur believed that the ban on jallikattu resulted in the drought condition. Looks like even the protests to conduct the rural sport has opened up the skies,” G Chitradevi from Alanganallur told TOI.
 
 It began to drizzle in Madurai district and surrounding regions by Friday evening. By Saturday morning, the district had collectively received 29.60mm rainfall with an average of 1.48mm. Melur and Madurai South recorded 5.2mm rainfall. However, it turned moderate by Saturday night. By Sunday morning, the district had received 426.80mm rainfall with an average of 21.34mm. Kallikudi recorded the highest rainfall of 50.60mm, followed by Madurai airport with 48.40mm, Thirumangalam 43.20mm and Sholavandhan 33.20mm.
 
 Though it is the end of January, the daytime temperature has been steadily increasing in the last few days. The temperature started soaring above 32 degree Celsius from the first week of January against the last week of February in 2016. The inflated daytime temperature had threatened to further evaporation loss from dams.
 
 “Even the mild drizzle has brought relief to the people,” said P Ganapathi from Arapalayam. 
 
 According to the farming community, though meagre, the rain will be beneficial for the livestock. “The pasture lands were fast drying up and the sporadic rain will save the cattle from being sent to slaughter houses,” said A Muthupandi, a dairy farmers’ association representative.
 
 Tirunelveli district also received good rainfall with showers recorded in Tenkasi, Sengottai, Kadayanallur, Pavoorchathiram and surrounding areas. As a result, Courtallam falls have a decent flow. The tourist season at the famous falls did not last long in 2016 as monsoons failed in the region. After Saturday’s showers, the flow started by Sunday and it became heavy by evening. However, as the season is over, there were very few people to enjoy the view.
 
 Most of the reservoirs in Tirunelveli, which used to have handsome storage during this time of year, have low levels. As the rains in two days augmented the inflow, Papanasam dam level has increased by seven feet while Servalaru dam level has increased by nine feet. 
 
 However, Mullaperiyar and Vaigai dam – important reservoirs for Madurai city and the district – did not witness any hike in water level as there were no rains in the catchment areas, public works department sources said.
 
 
