JAMSHEDPUR:   (KFMPL), a steel city based hospitality enterprise has announced an investment of Rs 50 crore in the tourism sector of the state. 

 Kennelite which had commenced operations at the Jharkhand State Tourism Development Corporation (JTDC) tourist complex at  , months ahead of the deadline last year, has inked an agreement with the government on seven different projects. 
 
 The seven projects include- developing tourist resort of   in  , amusement park at Kanke, pilgrim resort and health center in the holy town of Deogarh, amusement and water park in Godda, hospitality education center in the Steel city and Sohrai painting training institute in adjoining Seraikela and Giridih. 
 
 "The initial cost of the project is estimated around Rs 50 crore but it is most likely to increase further as the projects rolls out," said Mithilesh Jha, Director of KFML on Saturday, following MoU at GIS in Ranchi on Friday. 
 
 He also informed that the detailed project report (DPR) pertaining to each of the projects will be submitted to the tourism department in the coming three weeks and work on the ground will start as soon as the paper work is over. 
 
 He informed that facilities which are popular in the Kerala resorts will be introduced here to attract tourists. 
 
 "The element of luxury and exotic treatments will be added to the resorts, in order to give the tourists a soothing experience," Jha said adding, that under water sports, kayaking, boating, spa and health treatments will be the specialties at the upcoming resorts. 
 
 He informed that land has been identified for each of the project.
 
 "For the Tilaia resort, government land of over 14 acre exists with the local administration whereas for the Godda, Kanke and Deogarh projects, government has assured transfer of identified land soon. In Seraikela we have partnered with a private land owner," Jha added. 
 
 Close to 1000 people will earn their livelihood, directly and indirectly, when the proposed hospitality units comes to fruition, he added.
 
 
