GURGAON: The strike at   and Hospital entered its third day on Thursday. Over 500   prevented forensics from carrying out post-mortem and cremation of Pramila Yadav (35), a nurse at the hospital, who died on Tuesday after post-delivery complications. 

 The staff alleged Yadav needed surgery to stop excessive bleeding, but no gynaecologist was present in hospital at the time. Since then, they have been on strike.
 
 The staff took out candlelit marches on Wednesday evening and Thursday morning, both to the office of the district administration, demanding Rs 2 crore as   for Yadav’s family, a government job for her 14-year-old daughter, and action against doctors who are accused to have abandoned duty, including the one who was supposed to be on duty at the time Yadav was admitted. “We want chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and health minister Anil Vij to fulfil our demands. We’ll not allow them to conduct the autopsy and cremate the body till our demands are met,” said Ombir Pradhan, a paramedic at the hospital.
 
 An FIR was registered at Nuh police station, based on the complaint of Yadav’s husband, under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC, against the three accused — departmental head Dr Ravi Dutt Wadhwa, gynaecologist Dr Divya Mangla who was supposed to be on duty on Tuesday, and staff member Dr S P Singh.
 
 “We have already complied to one of their demands. An FIR has been registered against the three doctors. As for the other two, we will apprise the government and do whatever best suits the family,” said Manoj Kumar, sub-divisional magistrate, Nuh.
 
 The strike also disrupted health services in the area. Around 450 patients were admitted to the hospital on Tuesday. However, around 400 of them shifted to other hospitals. In addition, over a thousand patients were turned back from the OPD department. Emergency services remained uninterrupted, though.
 
 “My son has high fever, but I’m taking him to another doctor now. No doctor can tend to patients on his own, and the paramedics here are uncooperative,” said Ranjita Devi, mother of an 18-year-old. 
 
