GURUGRAM: Residents of La  , a premium condominium on   in Gurgaon where apartments cost between Rs 4 to Rs 8 crore, fear for their safety due. Decorative glass panels on the façades of its residential towers continue to fall and shatter, endangering the lives of those passing by.

 Over the last couple of years, glass panes have come loose from their frames on the façades of the buildings and crashed, in some cases even injuring residents, say apartment owners. A total of 132 glass panes, each 7ft by 4ft, have fallen from different floors, right up to the 18th storey of the condominium, they added. So far, only 42 panes have been replaced. TOI had highlighted the issue in January.
 
 After a series of complaints to different authorities, the department of town and country planning (DTCP) has expressed their concern for the safety of residents. “The department has directed the developer to submit an action plan by April 17 to replace all glass panels that have broken or fallen down,” said a senior DTCP official, adding that following complaints from residents, a meeting was held on March 20 in the presence of both residents and developer. Minutes of the meeting, directing the developer to replace the glass, was released on March 30.
 
 “Large façade glass panes, falling and shattering, has been a perpetual cause for concern over the last three years. In spite of several complaints, the glass façades have not been changed,” said  , president of La Lagune Apartment Owners Association. He said lives of residents is always under threat.
 
 Spread over 11.34 acres in Sector 54, Lal Lagune has 314 flats in 11 towers, each with 18 floors. In 2016, DTCP, along with its architect, found the glass panes were falling because of the defective way they had been fixed.
 
 “Apart from the danger it poses to the lives of the residents, it is also causing us mental agony — there are approximately 1,500 glass planes in the towers that could fall off any time. Despite repeated pleas, the developer has not done anything concrete about it, apart from replacing some of the window panes,” said Kohli.
 
 A spokesperson for ABW Suncity said, “We had short listed the two world’s most respected brands for the façade glass and accordingly the ‘Asahi’ glass was fitted and all the payments to the vendor made accordingly. When the problem in the same was pointed out, we with considerable efforts and after spending considerable money got replaced around 150 glass panes,” he said.
 
 The developer blamed resident association for stopping the replacement work. “The work had to be stopped due to the sheer disruptive attitude of the complainant and when left with no other option. We have already initiated legal proceedings against the vendor with respect to same before the Delhi High Court bearing and the matter is subjudice,” he said. 
 
 The issue related to delay in the handing over maintenance of the society by developer was also discussed in the meeting. The residents’ association alleges ABW Suncity is yet to sign the ‘taking over’ agreement and all the assets related to the society’s maintenance continue to be in its name.
 
 “Developer was directed to submit the required document before the next meeting on April 17,” said the DTCP official.
 
 Responding to the allegation, the AWB Suncity spokesperson said complainant association after taking over the complex has illegally carried many structural violations by erecting walls and partitions around the EWS block, gated and other structures of permanent nature etc. which need to be demolished and restored to its original position. “The intervention of DTCP office is sought in this regards,” he said.
 
