KOTA:   (MoUs) for 21 projects worth Rs 955.37 crores were signed on Thursday at Global   Agritech Meet (GRAM) in Kota. 

 The projects are for Private Sub-Market Yards; Agro Processing Industries; Agri-Cluster including Cold Chain and Animal Husbandry. These projects will provide direct employment to 9,488 persons and indirect employment to 17,850 persons.
 
 On the occasion, chief minister   said she appreciate the inspirational, upwardly mobile and enthusiastic young farmers who believed in innovation and use of new technologies. She said value of project in terms of cost is not important, what important is the entrepreneurial approach of setting up agriculture related units. The chief minister further said huge footfall was witnessed in past two days at GRAM which is a reflection of event’s success. The farmers were standing to gain by attending ‘Jajam Baithak’, observing new technologies in ‘Smart Farm’ and exhibitions.
 
 There are eight projects under Private Sub-Market Yards which will be set up at a cost of Rs 483 crore. It is expected thjat the project will generate employment for 11,360 people. The projects will be located at Udaipur, Kota, Bundi, Talera(Bundi), Baran, Sundlak (Baran ), Bikaner; village Ridmalsar (Sri Ganganagar) and Ramganj Mandi (Kota ).
 
 Another eight projects for Agro Processing will be set up at a cost of Rs 353.81 crore which will provide employment to 7,998 persons. These projects will be set up at Kota, Baran, Jaipur, Sikar, Banswara . There are four projects for Agri-Cluster including Cold Chain which will be set up at a cost of Rs 78.56 crore and will employ 7,580 persons. These projects will be located at Dholpur; Bundi, Bikaner .
 
 Similarly, there is one project for Dairy Farm (for A2 milk, Ice-cream and Ghee) that will be set up at a cost of Rs 40 crore and employ 400 persons.
 
 State agriculture minister Prabhu Lal Saini said 38 MOUs worth Rs 4,400 crore were inked in ‘GRAM 2016’. Of these, 25 projects were under active implementation.
 
 
