GURUGRAM: The absence of a good ice cover in Shimla has meant the 13th National Ice Skating Championship has been switched to the NCR’s – indeed India’s — only all-season indoor rink.

 The championship — in speed (short track) and figure skating — will now be held on January 5 and 6, at the city’s own iSKATE. And the change of venue has given the hosts barely two days in which to get ready to welcome the skaters.
 
 But   — in charge of operations and business development at iSKATE — says they are up for the challenge. Certainly, they’ve been helped by the fact that a preparatory camp for the nationals was held here, over six days last week.
 
 The quality of ice, Rai assured, is good enough for the participants to perform on with confidence. “Our main focus is on maintenance, to make sure we have a rink of international standard ready,” he told TOI. 
 
 An outdoors setting like Shimla’s, Rai explained, leaves a rink at the mercy of the elements. “If it’s too sunny, or the humidity levels are too high, it leads to the ice melting. The ice has to be level, so proper conditions cannot be maintained so easily in a natural ice environment.”
 
 Also, the athletes need at least four to five inches of ice to perform to the best of their abilities. “On top of that, each pair of skates they use costs at least Rs. 40,000, and if you’re skating in muck or mud, and a stone gets in the way, it spoils the blades,” he pointed out. 
 
 In total, there will be around 300 participants, primarily from India but also a few Indian-origin skaters from abroad. 
 
 Expect competition to be dominated by speed skaters, since that is the discipline young Indians are more comfortable with (helped by the ubiquity of inline roller skating). “Figure skating takes more practice and effort!” Rai adds. 
 
 There will be a couple of sessions on each day – from 7 am to 11:30 am in the morning, and from 8:30 pm to 11:30 pm in the evening. All are welcome to watch – after all, it’s not every day you get to see live skating action! 
 
 
