BENGALURU: A platoon of the   (KSISF) deployed at many   couldn't prevent a handful of pro-Kannada activists from defacing signboards at stations on Thursday morning. The platoons were deployed from Wednesday morning.

 Thursday's incident, where activists blackened signboards of stations from 4am to 5am at 41 stations, exposes security lapses. Since Metro stations are equivalent to airports, KSISF personnel were deployed at seven underground stations and three elevated stations, including MG Road, from June 17, when the 42km network was thrown open.
 
 On Thursday, station controllers watched helplessly as the activists went about defacing the signage as they were not sure how to handle them. “We will submit a detailed report to our bosses of what happened in the stations.
 
 We have very little to do when things go out of control when something untoward occurs outside the station premises. But security personnel who were deployed were not prepared, perhaps, to handle a crowd of four or five men defacing the station,“ said a staffer.
 
 Another source said, “Men camped outside the station on a couple of bikes around 3am when the stations were closed.They came with long brushes and brooms and blackened the Hindi signboards outside the station premises, and ran away by the time our staff and KSISF personnel inside the station realized what happened.“
 
 A commuter from Vijayanagar who takes the Metro to Byappanahalli every day said, “We were not stopped from entering or exiting the stations.But at Vijayanagar, the men who blackened the signboards were still outside the station.Security personnel were present at the entryexit points and on platforms, but the ride was not affected.“ BMRCL officials woke up to the crisis only after all the damage was done. Signboards at all 41 stations were cleaned by Thursday afternoon, staff said.However, BMRCL MD Pradeep Singh Kharola said, “I am not in a position to reveal anything about the incident. We are not communicating with the media about this at this time.“
 
 Yashwant Chavan, chief general manager (operations), BMRCL, said, “We have asked our staff to be alert at all times and report to us immediately if anything happens. Police have been supporting us throughout.“
 
 
 
 
 BMRCL officials said it has been following the Official Languages Act, 1963, and a circular sent by the ministry of urban development on December 9, 2016, to use three languages for Metro services in non-Hindi speaking regions, including the regional language, Hindi and English.
 
 The Official Languages Act, 1963, also says that Hindi in Devanagari script is the official language of the Union, and only numerals are to be used for official purposes in international form of Indian numerals, as per Article 343(1) of the Constitution.
 
 
 
 
 The Joint Hindi Advisory Committee of Urban Development, Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation, at its meeting held at Kochi on October 18, 2016, issued directions that as per the official language policy of the Centre, it is necessary that at all Metro stations located in non-Hindi speaking regions, signboards, name boards, announcements and publication material for the information of the public shall be in three languages -regional language, Hindi and English.
 
