CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu has joined three other states whose average   per day is more than 300 million units. Apart from Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh are the other states whose   has crossed 300 million units per day. 

 Tamil Nadu’s power supply has increased from 200 million units in 2011 to around 315MU per day in 2017. The four states generate sufficient power to meet a huge demand. While in Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Maharashtra almost the entire state has power supply, in Uttar Pradesh several villages are without electricity.
 
 “After an acute power shortage of more than 3000MW in 2011, we have surplus power now and the demand is increasing every year by 6%. In the last two years, we met the total demand. Due to this, the   supply touched 300MU,” a senior Tangedco official told TOI.
 
 “The present power demand in Tamil Nadu is around 13,500 to 14,500 MW which is expected to go up to 15,500MW. Tamil Nadu is all geared up to meet this demand. With this, the average power supply per day will also increase,” he said. It was on April 29 last year that power supply touched the historic mark of 345.61MU.
 
 If the per capita power supply is assessed among the four states, then UP has the lowest power supply per resident. Based on the 2011 population and peak power supply, the state has only 1.72 units per person per day while Gujarat has the maximum, at 7.96 units per person per day. Tamil Nadu has more per capital power supply at 4.5 units than Maharashtra, which has 4.2 units per person.
 
 “Demand is mostly from domestic and commercial consumers. That way, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Gujarat have better demand as the the resident’s per capita income is high due to which power demand is also high,” former TNEB chairman   told TOI.
 
 There is a huge demand from industries in Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Gujarat. “In Tamil Nadu, for instance, we have old manufacturing industries as well as new ones. In both cases, the power demand is high and due to this the per capita power supply is also high compared to other states,” he said.
 
 A recent study shows that only 5% of the total population have air conditioners. But by 2040, the number of people having air conditioner is expect to go up to 75% of the population. Thus the power demand will increase in all states and to that   also has to increase, the former chairman said.
 
