NAGPUR: Centre’s scepticism continues to dog state’s irrigation projects. Once again, central aid for   dam has been held up. Declared a national project during UPA regime, the project had been earlier entitled to central aid up to 90% of its cost.

 The accelerated irrigation benefit programme (AIBP), under which projects throughout the country got central funds, has been renamed to Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchan Yojana (PMKSY) by the   regime. Since last two years, the state is awaiting Rs600 crore as central funding under PMKSY for different irrigation projects. This includes Rs182 crore for the Gosikhurd being built by Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC).
 
 Under PMKSY, the central funding has been reduced to just 25% as against 90% under AIBP. The state’s share for other projects too has been cut.
 
 Sources in the state’s water resources department (WRD) said funds for 2015-16 and 2016-17 had not been received yet. As far as Gosikhurd is concerned, the queries raised during the earlier government continue even now. 
 
 Even under AIBP, the funds were stopped from time to time due to questions on the quality of construction of left bank canal (LBC). The canal has been centre of controversy for the project after it was found that its lining was below specifications. The entire lining is being redone by the contractor who had bagged the order earlier. Now with as much as 50% of the work done on the lining, the central authorities have raised some more queries due to which the payment has been held up, said a source. 
 
 Bembla project in Yavatmal district is another one for which Rs21 crore have been held back. In certain cases there are delays in putting up proposals and replying to the queries from the state’s side too. 
 
 However, stoppage of funds has not hampered work on the projects. At times, when there is a delay from the Centre's side a stopgap arrangement is made using state’s funds. This has happened for Gosikhurd and some other projects too, said sources. 
 
 On the brighter side, irrigation cover of Gosikhurd has been extended to 62,000 hectares for this season as against 25,000 hectares. It is planned to further increase it to one lakh hectares. The dam has total irrigation potential of 2.50 lakh hectares. The water will also be reaching the full distance of 99km in the right bank canal. The repairs needed in between have been completed.
 
 Godavari basin plan for speeding up 16 projects
 
 An expert committee headed by former assistant chief secretary ( ) K P Bakshi has submitted an integrated water plan for the Godavari river basin to chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. The executive director of Vidarbha Irrigation Develoment Corproation (VIDC) Avinash Surve is the committee’s vice-president.
 
 Among the proposals is a plan to speed up 16 irrigation projects in the basin, so far held up for want of approvals from Maharasthra Water Resources Regulatory Authority (MRRWA). Measures have been suggested to speed up the process.
 
