JAIPUR: Twenty-one persons have died in past 30 days due to swine flu across the state. According to  , 11 persons had died of the disease till April 13. But the latest report issued on May 12 showed that swine flu toll has increased to 32. In Jaipur, nine persons have died, while 120 tested positive for swine flu in past 30 days.

 On Friday, a two-and-a-half-year-old boy died while undergoing treatment for of swine flu at J K Lon hospital in the city. Hospital administration constituted a three-member committee after his attendant alleged carelessness causing death of the child.
 
 The boy was admitted to the hospital on Monday morning. He was brought to the hospital with diarrhoea, cough, malnutrition and anaemia along with symptoms of swine flu. “His haemoglobin was just 3 grams per decilitre of blood (g/dL), which was quite low. While undergoing treatment, his general condition improved. But, yesterday night, he complained of breathing problem. The doctors shifted him to the ICU immediately in the night. But, in the morning, he died,” Dr Ashok Gupta, medical superintendent, J K Lon Hospital, said. 
 
 The boy’s attendants alleged that the doctors took the decision of shifting him from the ward to the ICU quite late. However, the hospital administration immediately ordered an inquiry into the matter. “We have formed a three-member committee which will look into the matter and prepare a complete report on it. Action will be taken against those found guilty,” Dr Gupta said.
 
 The doctors concerned take decision on shifting the patients from ward to the ICU. The committee will find out if the doctors took the right decision on time.
 
 Besides, a 50-year-old woman, a resident of Dudu near Jaipur, died while undergoing   at Sawai Man Singh Hospital on Friday. She was admitted to government’s   (Chest and TB Hospital) but was later shifted to SMS Hospital.
 
 In Jaipur, 10 persons have died of swine flu this year. Besides, five more persons have tested positive for the disease. Two of them are undergoing treatment at SMS hospital. Also, two persons tested positive for swine flu were brought to Jaipur from Sikar for treatment. They are undergoing treatment at a private hospital. Besides, one patient brought from Tonk to SMS Hospital has been tested positive for the disease.
 
