NAGPUR: Mahametro has decided to conduct the maiden   of   around August 10. It will be done on 5.8km at grade (ground level) stretch. The actual date will be decided on the basis of availability of chief minister   and union transport minister Nitin Gadkari in the city.

 The trial run will test only the electrical and civil works and rolling stock (wagons). Work of signalling will be completed by September. The commissioner of rail safety (CRS) has been urged to inspect   that month. Commercial operations on at grade stretch will begin only after CRS gives the green signal.
 
 Mahametro general manager Anil Kokate said that preparations for the trial run were in full swing. “All the works including track laying, electrical traction, rolling stock availability and civil work will be over by July end,” he added.
 
 Kokate said that about 80% work of track laying had been completed. “The track is being laid on ballast (gravel) as well as concrete. Track on ballast has almost been laid and that on concrete is 50% complete. The work will be over by July end,” he added.
 
 A 5 MVA substation for powering the Metro is ready and electric supply from MSEDCL will be available in ten days. “Erection of poles for carrying the power cables is 80% over. Cable installation from Mihan depot side has been completed up to a distance of 1km. Both works will be over in another two weeks,” Kokate said.
 
 Rolling stock from Hyderabad Metro will reach the city by month end. “They will be transported by road in 30m long trailers. Each trailer will carry one wagon. We have constructed an unloading platform at Mihan depot. As soon as the coaches arrive they will be coupled electrically and mechanically and their static and dynamic testing will be started,” said the GM.
 
 The civil work including construction of boundary wall, bridges, earthwork and flyover is about 95% complete. “Work on the remaining 5% stretch began late because encroachments had to be removed,” said Kokate.
 
 Stations are not required for the trial run and they will be ready by September end. The Mihan depot is around 35% complete but the portion required for trial run is nearing completion. There are three stations in the trial run stretch — Khapri, New Airport and Airport South.
 
 Meanwhile, Mahametro is hoping for a favourable decision from Nagpur bench of   on land acquisition in Khapri. A small portion of the boundary wall can’t be built because a house is coming in the way.
 
 
