GURGAON: One of the suspects arrested for the murder of jailed gangster Binder Gujjar’s brother is a policeman’s son and a   from   in Manesar.   had scored 80% in his Class XII boards and had enrolled as a   student at the institute. University officials said he had stopped coming eight-nine months ago. 

 Sharma, along with slain gangster Sandeep Gadoli’s brother Brahm Prakash alias Master, and Jaiveer, was arrested on Wednesday and remanded in police custody for his alleged involvement in the murder of Gujjar’s brother Manish aka Pappu, a liquor businessman, last year. Luv’s father is an assistant sub-inspector in Haryana Police and is currently deployed in Palwal district.
 
 During interrogation, police said they found out Brahm Prakash ran a private school in his village Gadoli Khurd, while Jaiveer is an auto driver. 
 
 A senior police officer said Luv, also a resident of Gadoli Khurd, got in touch with BrahM Prakash around a year back when teachers of the latter’s school suddenly quit. Luv, who had just finished Class XII, began teaching at the school. He continued teaching there for six months, until the killing of Sandeep Gadoli in Mumbai last February at the hands of the police. After that, the duo locked the premises.
 
 “Luv did not have a criminal record before Manish Gujjar’s murder. More than 50 students were studying in Master’s school before it was closed,” said a senior police official investigating the case.
 
 The three accused were driving in a Scorpio near Garhi Harsaru village on Wednesday afternoon when they were intercepted by the police. Weapons were also recovered from them, the police said. 
 
 “The three accused are in police remand and our teams are questioning them. Master, the main accused, confessed to having arranged for the weapons, money and shooters to commit the crime. We are conducting raids to nab Sudesh, co-accused in the case, and the sister of slain gangster Gadoli,” said Sumit Kuhar, DCP (crime), Gurgaon.
 
 Manish was heading towards his liquor shop in his white Hyundai Creta on October 17 when shooters stationed on the route shot him. 
 
 
