 in not new in our country, but with   fathering twins   -- named after his parents Yash Johar and Hiroo (rearranged) --- single fatherhood via gestational surrogacy has come into the limelight yet again. Last year, it was   who had son  , via surrogacy. 

 Karan, in his statement on a microblogging site, said that he was “ecstatic and enormously blessed to become a parent and that it was an emotional yet well thought-out decision for him.” Dr Jatin Shah, the in-vitro fertilisation and intracytoplasmic sperm injection specialist, under whose guidance and support Yash and Roohi were born, said, “I am very happy for Karan. He has said everything in his beautifully written statement that is already viral online.” Dr Shah was also responsible for Shah Rukh Khan and Gauri’s third child AbRam and Sohail Khan and Seema’s second child, Yohan. Karan’s twins were born on February 7, 2017 and their names were registered on March 3, 2017. 
 
 
 The Centre recently framed some new guidelines regarding surrogacy. The draft of the Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha in November 2016, and it recommends a ban on surrogacy for commercial purposes and prohibits women from taking payments to become a surrogate mother. It also seeks a ban on surrogacy for single parents and foreign nationals.
 
  Lawyer Mrunalini Deshmukh says, “As of now, the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines do not prohibit single parents from having a child via a surrogate mother. There is no such law on surrogacy till now. The notification has, however, debarred import of an embryo and foreign nationals to opt for surrogacy.”
 
  The government’s move to implement restrictions on surrogacy comes in the wake of it thriving as an unregulated, rent-a-womb business that exploits women. The proposed bill could be a blow to this industry. Mrunalini adds, “Exploitation of the surrogate mother for commercial gains is a valid concern of the government. The bill is still in its nascent stage.” 
 
 
 In the case of a single father, gestational surrogacy is planned with the father’s sperm and a donor egg. In such cases, when registering the birth of the child, the name of the mother is left blank. For a single mother (if she is medically unfit to carry the child), surrogacy is planned with the mother’s egg and a donor sperm. These are then fertilised and then transferred to the surrogate’s womb. In this case, the father’s name is left blank in the birth certificate.
 
 
 
 Tusshar Kapoor:– Laksshya
 Shah Rukh Khan-Gauri Khan: AbRam
 Aamir Khan-Kiran Rao: Azad Rao Khan 
 Sohail Khan-Seema Khan: Yohan
  
 
