Kolkata: Come next week, IIT-Kharagpur will start a project developing solar-powered bikes for its campus and for women, children and the infirm in villages. The bikes’ batteries will be charged at   powered refuelling stations developed by Arka Renewable Energy College headed by S P Gon Chaudhuri.

  “The on-wheel solar cells deliver clean energy directly to the battery. While the solar bike stands still, it charges the battery. When it is in motion, the solar cells and the battery provide energy for the motor,” Gon Chaudhuri said.
 
 The project, in association with IIT-Kharagpur, is backed by the ministry of science and technology; it will eventually apply to three-wheelers, like the e-rickshaws, as well. 
 
  “It’s not possible to have solar panels atop bikes. The space/energy ration doesn’t allow solar vehicles or any other mobile objects to have the facility. So we have created these solar charging stations which will be installed on the IIT campus. The bikes will be charged for a 100km run, after which the batteries can be charged again.” 
 
 Gon Chaudhuri’s ideas interested IIT-Kharagpur director Partha Pratim Chakrabarti, who has started using a bike developed by the science and technology entrepreneurs’ park (STEP) on his own campus. “We plan to inaugurate the project next week,” the director said.
 
 “These battery-driven bikes were initially given to us by the Coimbatore-based Ampere Vehicles. We decided to redevelop and take them to the next level. To make the bikes completely green, we shall have them solar-powered in these fuelling stations,” said Satyahari Dey, professor, department of biotechnology, and managing-director, STEP. “The concept will soon be extended to Totos,” he added.
 
 The bikes, called Angel, packaged with the solar fuelling stations, are a part of STEP’s incubation and entrepreneurship programme by a team of IIT-Kharagpur students. IIT-Kharagpur will also develop a financial model for Ampere Vehicles.
 
 The bikes will not cost more than Rs 20,000 and will have speed controls, road-safety sensors, trackers and other such equipment. 
 
 
