PUNE: A speeding trailer truck crashed into the guard rail of the bridge in the Khandala section of the Pune-Mumbai   and fell 50 feet into the valley.

 The mishap occured around 5am on Thursday.
 
 No one was injured in the accident, but the driver of the truck is missing. However, it is presumed he was safe. Multiple efforts by the police to track him down bore no fruit. They had even pressed dog squads into service. 
 
 According to officers from the Pune division of the Highway Safety Patrol (HSP), the truck was headed for Mumbai from Pune. They believe the driver of the heavy vehicle lost control on the road made slick by the rains, causing it to punch through the guard rail. 
 
 Police also believe that the truck being empty spurred the driver to speed. After it crashed into the guard rail, the vehicle fell 50 feet into the Ulhas river valley. As the vehicle dropped into the valley, traffic wasn’t disrupted. 
 
 HSP officers said the driver either jumped out of the cabin just before the truck collided with the rail, or went down with the truck before he fled. 
 
 They found his clothes in the woods, but no trace of the man was found. 
 
 Later, around 9.30am, the authorities deployed heavy duty cranes to winch the mangled remains of the truck out of the valley. No human remains were found on the wreckage, leading the authorities to believe the driver is alive. 
 
 The extraction operation affected traffic for nearly 30 minutes.
 
 The expressway is highly prone to accidents, and has become especially dangerous since the onset of the monsoon. 
 
 Last Sunday, the driver of a speeding car escaped with injuries after his vehicle dashed against a steel crash barrier that broke and pierced through the four-wheeler at   on the Pune-Mumbai expressway around 5pm. 
 
 The car driver,   (32) of   in Mumbai, was treated for wrist fracture and minor head injury at a private hospital near  , expressway authorities said. The car, a hatchback model, was extensively damaged in the accident which occurred near the Pawana police post on the expressway at Kamshet.
 
 
