If it wasn’t for some last-minute glitches, fans of Reggae band   would have been humming their hit number ‘Baby I Love Your Way’ last evening at  . Unfortunately, the gig was cancelled. We caught up with its frontman,  , for a quick chat on why the Mumbai leg was called off, among other things. Excerpts…

 
 
 I don’t know much but I was told that there were some technical issues. I am hurt and the whole band is crushed. We were looking forward to perform in Mumbai. But we have to let the Universe take its course. I try not to get too frustrated about these things. But you know what? We’re going to be back here in September. It’s been a real delight coming to India and my visit has been life-changing. 
 
 
 
 I think Reggae, in general, lends itself to covers and gives a song a new lease of life. Renditions were popular in   for quite some time. So, while we didn’t start the trend, I’d like to believe we helped further the tradition. As for ‘Baby’, the original was a live version and it’s tough for it to fare well as people are used to polished work. 
 
 
 
 I’m not a purist but I think every hardcore Reggae fan feels like the genre belongs to them. It has helped the world get past the colonial stigma and thus resonates with many of us. It marked the end of capitalism and one could finally detoxify themselves and be proud of their culture. Reggae is the anti-colonial medicine.
 
 
 
 You know, you can be uptight about a lot of things in life — freedom, nudity, women empowerment, interracial marriages — but weed isn’t one of them. I know some of the smartest people who smoke up daily and some of the dumbest ones who do not. It’s a plant. There are many other things to fret over; this isn’t one of them. 
 
 
 
 When we started out, we would record on two-inch analogue tapes. It was an expensive process and it was difficult for someone to have a personal studio unless they were rich. I was a part of the generation that witnessed the digitisation process. While it has revolutionised business in some ways, it has made music worse. We can never have the music that record companies made in the 70s. It just doesn’t pay for a record company to nurture a group.  , for instance, was not a success until 'The Dark Side of the Moon' happened. That conviction no longer exists. Now, all they want are a few hit singles and if you don’t deliver, they start getting shaky in their boots. Digitisation makes it easy for all of us to have a studio at home but it makes it harder for us to put together great music. We expect great music to happen too fast.
 
 
 I try not to judge new artistes but I grew up in a different era. Back in the day, we were expected to be well-aware about politics, religion and spiritualism and incorporate it in our music. We had to inspire others through our music. While we were a hit, we were called to do the closing act by great bands. It was nerve-racking as we were insecure about our chops. I have the benefit of touring with all these acts for years and we’ve picked it up from there. I also got to hear them talk backstage. All this happened shortly after   died so the vibe and the magic in the air was still present. Rastafari was in its golden age and reggae music, we felt, was the answer to the world’s problems. I still feel strongly about the genre’s purpose. That’s what these kids don’t have now. In some places, it has turned into a party music. That’s not what it is meant for. Reggae is about liberation from a superficial world, self-determination, identity and pride. 
 
 
 India is such an important country in the development of the world. It is the motherland in so many ways. I wanted to come here for the longest time. My grandmother came here in the 70s and was a part of that wave called Anglo-Hippies. She was a follower of Osho and ended up staying here for many years. In fact, I’m heading to Pune and look forward to feeling her energy there. She was a courageous and curious woman. I wouldn’t be a reggae singer if it wasn’t for her. She would come back with suitcases full of stuff and when she opened it, it would smell like India – the spices and incenses. She would also get comic books of Krishna and Shiva. I associate these fond memories with the country. It’s been a wonderful time here.
 
 
 
 I’ve been listening to AR Rahman’s music and would love to work with him. I know he’s a big dude and there are more chances of me flying to the moon than that happening. But I would like to make a cover of (sings) ‘Maa Tujhe Salaam’.
 
 
 
 Salman Khan. I watched ‘Bajrangi Bhaijaan’ months ago and that’s where I finally understood Bollywood. Bollywood movies make me cry. I usually watch them on my flights and I don’t even try holding back my tears. I love Hindi movies — they make even the worst guys repent for their sins. I wish the world was just that way. I have also watched ‘Sultan’ and would have loved singing for the movie. I am a Bollywood fan!
 
 
