Last week, the talk by a former Union minister for human resource development in Vizag bore great relevance for the Sunrise State of Andhra Pradesh. The topic “Human Resource Development- Challenges and Opportunities” was all the more pertinent for a Tier II city like Visakhapatnam trying emerging out of the shadows of Hyderabad in providing employment avenues for its aspiring youth. Since the speaker was a highly qualified US educated engineer holding a doctorate degree, I was mentally reconciled to a rapid fire round of power point presentations replete with demand supply projections of only the quantifiable. Mercifully, the talk was very balanced as it stressed on the non-quantifiable too. I appreciated the fact that the ex-minister recognised the need for incorporating moral science in the school curriculum. Having been exposed to moral science classes in a Jesuit school right from Class 1 till 10 (from mid 1960s till mid 1970s), this recommendation struck a chord with me. In the ninth and tenth standards these classes went under the nomenclature of “Psychology classes”. These days many secular liberals are likely to oppose ‘moral science’ classes, apprehensive of them being precursors to religious indoctrination. I firmly believe in the adherence to a personal code of conduct for “summum bonum”. I feel that it also needs to be progressively dovetailed with the following additional dimensions towards character building: i) Imparting of life skills ii) Strengthening of emotional intelligence among young minds iii) Helping students to deal with stress and negative emotions During my college days in Delhi followed by interaction with “fast track achievers” in my professional days, this aspect of education was often greeted with some scepticism, especially by those who did not have moral science in school. They would snidely remark that such classes would turn one into a ‘softy’- hesitant to take the plunge for ‘bold, daring, dashing, dynamic decisions’ that were required for a ‘nation on the move’. Ironically, somewhere in their professional ascent, when these “dare devils” got derailed they would seize the first opportunity to quote the scriptures and wear their religious beliefs on their sleeves! This reminder on the need for moral science in our educational curriculum by the ex- minister could not have come at a more appropriate time. Barely a week later, all newspapers ran reports of India having “bagged the Numero Uno” position in an international ranking survey! But, alas! We can talk about it only in hushed whispers with our heads bent in contriteness! The global NGO, Transparency International, reported that India had the highest bribery rate among the 16 Asia Pacific countries surveyed between July 2015 and January 2017. 69% of the study group in India said that they had paid a bribe, given a gift or done a favour to receive services. The figures for our ‘competitors’ were Vietnam 65%, Thailand 41%, neighbouring Pakistan 40% and China 26%. At the other end of the spectrum were Japan at 0.2%, Hong Kong -2%, South Korea and Australia - 3%, Taiwan -6% ! More than one quarter of the people surveyed in the Asia Pacific stated that they have paid bribe while accessing basic services like medicine, education or water. The results from across the region show that it is the key law and order institution that was perceived to suffer most from corruption, with political decision makers (at both national and local level) following closely. 46% to 60% of the Indians said that they paid bribes for various public services, including in public schools, hospitals, for getting IDs, voter cards, permits and for accessing utilities and the police. 31% to 45% said that they paid bribes for court services as well. With such findings, all the pledges that Indians take during their annual ritualistic observations of Vigilance Week in government offices and public sector undertakings seem to be falling flat! Today, ensconced in a safe foreign shore, the largest Indian tax defaulter is becoming increasingly strident from about his victimisation by the Indian Government. Morality, therefore, is garb of convenience to be discarded when self-restraint become a bit too austere, particularly in the unwritten diktat in our work culture- “The end justifies the means”. A few months back a retired IAS officer turned social activist rued that honesty is no longer considered a virtue in the real world. He observes that the idea of good government has changed dramatically from “the defence of the poor and the weak” to “success in attracting large business investment”. Big business has found numerous ways of winning favours of public officials, not just through mammoth illicit cash transfers but by many creative ways ranging from supporting the education of their children in the best foreign universities, to all expenses paid foreign holidays With our old generation in power getting mired in corruption, can we repose faith in the younger generation and hand over the baton to them in rectifying the deficiencies in our moral legacy? It would be a tall order. We would have to first address their multitudinous problems. Behavioural addiction: It begins with children getting engrossed in a world of cartoons followed by movies and TV. It metamorphoses into a more dangerous teenage obsession of posting selfies on Facebook or browsing porn websites. Those getting hooked on to social networking platforms for hours develop the tendency of not accepting failures. They prefer to stay alone, have poor concentration levels and are more prone to emotional outbreaks. On the occasion of “Mental Health Week”, last year, psychiatrists summed up by stating that nuclear families, loneliness, boredom, emptiness, easy access to internet, abusive parents are some of the leading factors that give way to behavioural addiction. Juvenile crimes: The data of National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) shows that most juvenile crimes are committed by those in the age group of 16-18 years. In 2011 the growth in rape by juveniles (34%) over 2010 was again among the highest. Other growth figures that were higher than this included dowry deaths (63.5%) and abduction of women (53.5%) - both crimes against women. Suicides: Also to be viewed with concern is the rise in the suicide rates among students, especially during the examination season from March to May. The observations of psychiatrists need to be taken seriously. Many tenth class or intermediate students end their lives due to the academic pressure from schools or corporate junior colleges, peer groups and parents (Rank Mania!). Direct and indirect comparisons made by these groups wreak havoc on the minds of the student. They sow the seeds of an inferiority complex by lowering their self esteem. Over stress creates hormonal imbalance leading to loneliness, inferiority complex and feeling of insecurity among students. Hunger and sleeping pattern get disturbed. Recurrence of suicidal thoughts leads to Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD), ultimately dragging the children towards suicide. The ambience and the environment in the “IIT/ EAMCET factories” and corporate junior colleges add fuel to the fire. Under achievers are segregated, sent to a different classroom and branded as ‘no good fellows’! Students, especially those from rural areas and vernacular backgrounds, are not in a position to compete with the students coming from corporate schools and thereby go into depression. The silver lining in this grey cloud is that there are already a few institutions in Vizag that provide academic and psychological counselling along with free orientation programmes in schools and colleges. They could probably make a difference through their following focus areas: i) Aligning career goals based on one’s interest: Since many Andhra parents understand only engineering and medicine as career options, any suggestion of alternative careers would be met with scepticism! ii) Improving the abilities of a student to cope with peer pressure and criticism iii) Improving the communication and interpersonal skills of students: Most urgent in an era where one's eye contact is narrowing down to solely an SMS/Whats App texting iv) Enhancing emotional intelligence v) Ironing out psychological hurdles faced by students during their academic life. It is time planners cast aside their power-point presentations for a while and spent more time on the intricacies of the troubled minds of their populace at the field level! (The writer is a retired Indian Railways official now involved with rural education. He can be reached at himakartata@gmail.com)