HYDERABAD:  's bid to skill more   got a leg up with vice-president   laying the foundation for the first Regional Vocational Training Institute (RVTI) in Hyderabad on Saturday . He simultaneously digitally launched five Pradhan   (PMKKs) across Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh.The five PMKKs are at Etah, Phulpur and Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh and   and Dhar in Madhya Pradesh.

 Being set up at an investment of around `20 crore, the RVTI campus in the city will come up on over 4-acres at the Advanced Training Institute, Vidyanagar campus. It will have the capacity to train around 1,000 women annually for work in multiple sectors such as fashion, textiles and hospitality, among others.
 
 The institute will offer courses pertaining to fashion design & technology , architectural assistantship, cosmetology, front office assistant, secretarial practice (English) and food and beverages service assistant.
 
 Dharmendra Pradhan, Union minister of petroleum & natural gas and minister for skill development & entrepreneurship, who was also present during the foundation-laying ceremony , pointed out that 17 such RVTIs are being set up across the country.
 
 While it will take some ti me for the infrastructure at Hyderabad to be ready , Pradhan urged RVTI officials to start training this year itself using the existing infrastructure at the ATI campus.
 
 “While we have a workforce of over 50 crore people in the country , only 5-10% of the people are skilled. Therefore it is important for the government, NGOs as well as private organisations to focus on skilling the youth of country ,“ he said.
 
 Meanwhile, laying the foundation stone, Naidu stressed on the importance of upping the skill quotient of women as it will not only lead to the development of the economy but also benefit society as a whole. He pointed out that skilling youth will open up opportunities for them in foreign countries, where there is a dearth of human resources.
 
 “Through skill development, we will not only empower our own country and its industries but also contribute to economies across the world. There is a huge demand for skilled workforce world over and it is the right time to reap our demographic dividend and bridge this demand-supply gap,“ he added.
 
 Telangana deputy chief minister Mohammad Mahmood Ali, state home minister   and former minister of state for labour & employment   were also present at the event.
 
