NEW DELHI: Guests coming from a wedding in a hired   were waylaid and robbed by five youths at   near south Delhi’s Khanpur on Sunday night. 

 The robbers, who came in an autorickshaw, took away gold chains and other jewellery from at least 30 women in the bus. Later, the auto was seized and a case of dacoity was registered. Three suspected accused were detained.
 
 The incident took place around 3am when the family members of Babu Ram were returning from his son’s wedding in northwest Delhi’s Swaroop Nagar. The bus was hired from Devli for the wedding and was boarded by 40-45 people, mostly women and children. While coming back from the function, the driver of the bus asked the passengers to shift to another bus, claiming his vehicle had broken down. “The bus we had hired could be locked from inside. But the second bus did not have any lock. The cleaner of the bus was also not present,” said Ram. 
 
 The bus had almost reached its destination at Devli when an auto suddenly stopped in front of it. As soon as the bus stopped, three youths carrying pistols boarded it and one of them held the driver at gunpoint. The other two took away the bus keys and the money he had, and then started asking the women to hand over their jewellery to them. They even snatched jewellery from the ones who refused to give because of which many suffered injuries on the neck. Two other robbers reached the spot on a bike and guarded the gate, ensuring that nobody escaped. 
 
 The youths threatened the driver, and the passengers and left. “We informed the PCR and recorded our statements,” said Ram. A police team was immediately formed to track the robbers. One of the passengers had noted down the registration number of the auto, after which it was traced to south Delhi’s Neb Sarai. Two youths were found in the auto but they managed to flee. The vehicle was seized. 
 
 Police suspect that the driver of the first bus was involved in the crime. “We have formed teams to track down the accused,” said deputy commissioner of police (south)Ishwar Singh.
 
 Police have also identified the operator from whom the bus was hired and the driver’s details are being verified. It was found that the man is a resident of Devli and had been missing since the incident. The driver of the second bus is being questioned.
 
