LITTIPARA: No matter how much political parties may wrangle over the amendments to tenancy acts, bijli, paani aur sadak (water, electricity and road) continue to remain on top of the voters’ wishlist here. 

 On Friday, chief minister Raghubar Das addressed four   and spent a considerable amount of time talking about his government’s land reforms programme. He said, “Controversy surrounding CNT and SPT Acts is created by those leaders who have flouted these laws to usurp the land of commoners. We will take these   to task.”
 
 Das’s outburst was aimed at opposition parties such JMM and Congress that often described his land policy as ‘anti-tribal’.
 
 But the ground reality seems different. Most locals do not seem to pay any attention to the debate over the CNT and SPT Acts. 
 
 “Land and its ownership may be an issue for politicians. What we desperately want here are paani, bijli and sadak, the three basic necessities of life,” said Mohammad Qureshi, a   from Jenagadia in Pakur district. “There are more than 300 families at Jenagadia that has only four hand pumps. We face a scarcity of water. Every year, politicians come and promise to give us enough water and they never do anything. The roads here are full of potholes,” he complained.
 
 At Hiranpur,  , too, has similar grievances. He said, “We don’t get water tanks are damaged. For a long time we have been waiting for civic authorities to repair them. Last year, political parties promised to take care of the tanks, but did nothing. Power supply is also erratic here. Supply lines get snapped every time strong winds blow through Hiranpur.” Dutta is a BJP sympathiser.
 
 Close to the entrance of Littipara town, a large crowd of tribals had gathered outside the stadium near a government school to catch a glimpse of the chief minister and his helicopter. Das was there in the last leg of his campaign for the Littipara assembly byelection scheduled to be held on April 9. 
 
 Deva Paharia, a tribal from Littipara, who was among the crowd, said, “Water scarcity is our biggest problem. I live in a village atop a hill and earn my living as a well-digger. Digging of well is a backbreaking exercise. But, ironically, we don’t have enough water to quench out thirst. We need water and a handful of pumps cannot solve our problem.” 
 
 Soon after the chief minister left Dhova Danga village after his poll meeting, Jamni Devi, an elderly woman, broke down and said, “We are at the mercy of panchayat officials who do not want to help us. We don’t get oil and ration even when we go to them with our BPL cards. They make me and my husband starve. They don’t have any respect for our age.” She added, “I want to vote for the party that can help us live with some comfort.”
 
 
