GHAZIABAD: A double-storey house built in an unauthorised   colony caved in on Monday night on its occupants, seven of whom were children or teenagers. Three of them were crushed to death under the rubble. The youngest, a 4-year-old boy, is in a critical state at a Delhi hospital. 

 The family members were having a post-dinner chat around 11pm on the first storey when they felt the floor giving way, the owner of the house, Imran, said from his hospital bed on Tuesday. Imran’s wife Reshma (32) and her sister Haseena (30) were also killed in the house collapse. The three children who died were Haseena’s daughters Saba (9) and Asfa (10), and her son Danish (6). 
 
 The 4-year-old being treated in Delhi is Imran’s youngest son Rehan. Imran and his three older sons — Anas (16), Aman (15) and Adnan (13) — also suffered serious injuries and are being treated at Shivain hospital in Loni. 
 
 The house that collapsed was in Loni’s Rahat Enclave and had been constructed over a 30-square-yard plot around eight years ago. It had a single living-room-cum-hall, where the family used to cook, and a bathroom on the ground floor. The first floor also had a single room, while above that, Imran had constructed a five-foot-high enclosure for keeping pigeons. Plots on all three sides of the house are vacant.
 
 Imran, a fruit seller who has a stall in Loni's Lalbagh market, lived there with Reshma and their four minor sons. Haseena had come visiting along with her husband Babloo and their three children six days ago. Babloo, who trades in blankets and quilts, had left for Panipat at 4pm on Monday. He had promised to return on Tuesday to take his wife and kids back home. 
 
 Everyone, except Aman, was on the first floor when the house collapsed. They were pulled out of the rubble by neighbours who put up a heroic effort to get to those trapped by the removing mounds of bricks with bare hands and then rushing them to hospital in autorickshaws and private vehicles.
 
 A neighbour said people rushed out when they heard a deafening crash. “There were stagnant pools of water around the house and the structure also was seemingly getting dilapidated,” said  , who lives in a nearby house. “When we rushed outside, the building had collapsed. A huge cloud of dust had engulfed the area. We cleared the rubble manually and attended to the victims. The ambulance did not arrive on time and we took the victims to hospital in whatever vehicles could be arranged.” 
 
 Dr   of Shivain Hospital said, “Imran and the three kids have suffered head and chest injuries. They are stable after treatment. Locals had taken 10 persons to the emergency ward of the hospital around 11.20pm on Monday. Five of them were declared dead on arrival. The youngest injured kid was referred to GTB Hospital when his condition deteriorated.” 
 
 Imran said at the hospital he had been planning to bring down the house at the end of winter and construct a new building. “Aman was alone in the ground-floor hall and was probably playing a video game. Since there were guests at home, we had had an early dinner and had retired to the room upstairs. We were watching TV and chatting among ourselves when we suddenly felt the floor beneath us give way. There was a crash and sudden darkness all around. I don’t remember anything afterwards till I regained consciousness in the hospital,” Imran said.
 
 Police said no legal action had been initiated. “No case has been filed because the house seems to have collapsed accidentally,” SP (rural) Om Prakash said.
 
 
