NEW DELHI: The request to two men to move their car from outside his Chinese   in Begumpur, Rohini, and park it elsewhere cost Tarun Gupta his life on Wednesday. After the men ran their car over Gupta and killed him, they revved away, but not before some people had noted the license plate. Police arrested the driver on Friday.

 The cops said that the driver, Sanjay Pandey, is a resident of Begumpur and had bought the car involved, a silver-coloured Alto, with the money provided by his father. He himself was unemployed. “We have recovered the car and have booked Pandey for culpable homicide,” said Rishipal, DCP (Rohini).
 
 Gupta’s brother and business partner Manish narrated that two men had parked the Alto in front of their eatery in Sector 22 around 5.15 pm on Wednesday. They then crossed the road to reach a shop on the other side. When Pandey returned to the car, Manish requested him to park the vehicle in some other spot since it was blocking the entrance to the restaurant.
 
 When Pandey refused to accede, an argument ensued. Hearing loud voices, Gupta, who lived in an apartment above the restaurant, stepped in. There were further arguments, during which 39-year-old Gupta tried calling the police control room.
 
 Seeing Gupta call the cops, the two men hurried to drive away from the spot, said Manish. “While hastily reversing the car, they hit my scooter parked behind it. When Tarun stood in the middle of the road to stop them, the duo simply ran him over,” said Manish.
 
 Those who saw the incident said Gupta was dragged by the car for nearly 100 metres before Pandey stopped. But he then reversed the car and after again running the car over the fallen Gupta, vanished from the spot. Gupta was taken to Jaipur Golden Hospital but died before he could be given medical aid.
 
 Gupta’s wife, 10-year-old son and five-year-old daughter were also witness to the incident. Along with his parents and brother, the deceased’s survivors live in the floor above the eatery.
 
