Chanderdinga (Dhubri): Bhabani Devi, 44, is used to harsh winters but this year’s has been particularly hard for her. After her house in Chanderdinga in   district was demolished by the authorities on December 28, she has had no choice but to brave the chill in a makeshift tent by the Brahmaputra.

 Bhabani is not alone in her plight. A total of 56 families lost their homes in the demolition drive and have been camping on the banks of the river in temporary and inadequate arrangements since then. The reason cited by the government: they had been living on forest land.
 
 “We have been living here for more than 30 years now. If the administration destroys our houses, where do we go? We have nothing left,” Bhabani told TOI. The middle-aged woman, who shares the cramped tent with her husband, added that the administration had not provided any rehabilitation to those like her who lost their homes overnight. “Only a few NGOs and organizations have extended a helping hand. We were made to look like criminals by the government. Even criminals get basic amenities, we are worse off,” she rued.
 
 These makeshift camps house 25 infants below the age of one, 42 children aged between one and five and 12 pregnant women. The settlers hold government documents like voter ID cards but do not have any land documents. Not only do they have no hope of receiving compensation, rehabilitation, too, seems out of their reach.
 
 Dhubri deputy commissioner Dhiraj Choudhury professed helplessness. “Since they had encroached upon the land, the government will not compensate them. However, if they can prove that they are landless, the administration will arrange for rehabilitation within the district,” he said.
 
 Abdur Razzak, who has been living in Chanderdinga since 1978, said such sudden dispossession was not new here. He would know, having lost his house thrice — twice to the government and once to erosion. “In 1997, some houses had been demolished but we had no choice but to resettle here. We can’t go anywhere else,” said Razzak who shifted to Chanderdinga after losing his land at Roukhowa Chapori to the river.
 
 Ashraful Hussain, a blogger and activist who has visited the place, said, along with the houses, the government had also razed to the ground a lower primary school with more than 100 students. “It’s very unfortunate that these people are suffering like this. We want them to be rehabilitated at the earliest. Pregnant women and babies are shivering in the cold. Who will take responsibility for their future?” Hussain wondered.
 
 
