MANGALURU: Many elderly people who undergo harassment and torture at the hands of their children usually keep mum about the same, to save the family from disgrace. Sulochana Pai, 80, from   village in Karkala, chose a different path.

 After her sons forced her out of the house, she approached the Senior Citizens’ Tribunal with the help of the   (HRPF), Udupi. Even after the tribunal ordered in her favour, and directed her children to give her maintenance money and to give her back her house, Sulochana’s woes are far from over, as the order has not been complied with. Over and above, she has been allegedly threatened by her son who is occupying the house.
 
 HRPF president Shanbhag says Sulochana toiled as a chef and strove to bring up her two sons, Ramakanth Pai and Bharath Pai. She spent her hard-earned money to build a house on five cents land granted by the government. Trouble started after the death of her husband, Janardhan Pai, in 2012. Both her sons, though they were earning a sufficient amount to sustain themselves as lorry drivers, became alcoholics, and instead of taking care of their mother, began pestering her for money. When she refused to give in, they drove her out of the house. In spite of the house being in her name, the elder son does not allow her to stay there. There is no sign of her second son Bharath, who occasionally turns up only to extort money from her.
 
 Fed up with the harassment, Sulochana took shelter at the house of a relative, but was unlucky as the relative soon passed away. In 2016, she lodged a police complaint on the issue, but the elder son still did not give up the house. In March 2016, she lodged a complaint with the Senior Citizens’ Tribunal.
 
 After eight months of hearing the matter, the tribunal ordered Ramakanth to provide maintenance of Rs 6,000 per month to his mother. He neither appeared for the hearing nor paid any money. Since there was no clear order for the possession of the house, Sulochana had to appeal to the Udupi district commissioner. Recently, the tahsildar of Karkala has ordered to give Sulochana possession of the house. Sulochana, who was seriously ill since four months, has recovered under the shelter of HRPF. Sulochana says she is fed up with this row, and wants to settle down in an old age home by selling her house.
 
 Ramakanth has refused to leave the house under any circumstances. HRPF contacted the Karkala tahsildar to give Sulochana possession of her house, and requested him to provide protection to her. Shanbhag says the law will fail in protecting senior citizens unless the public joins hands with the government for the same.
 
 
