KOCHI: Even as the   (KMRL) is moving ahead with the plan to integrate various modes of   in the city, the agency said that it would take them “at least another six months” to introduce a   in the city.   is of the view that it wouldn’t be fair to expect a perfect feeder system by the time Kochi Metro becomes operational.

 The Metro agency said there was much ground work left do before introducing a foolproof system, and that it would take considerable time. 
 
 “In the initial stage, information regarding Kochi Metro will be available on the KMRL’s mobile app. Other aspects such as availability of feeder services will be eventually incorporated,” added the spokesperson.
 
 However, it is pointed out that delay in presenting the unified metropolitan transport authority (Umta) bill before the legislative assembly has also adversely affected KMRL’s plans to integrate various modes of transport. Implementation of   Act is expected to expedite streamlining of various transport systems, which would function as Kochi Metro’s feeder services.
 
 There is a requirement for a single command and control centre, integrated time table and single ticketing system. “There is a need for route rationalisation and identification of new routes. This will provide a clear picture for operating feeder services. Sometimes there is a need for RTO’s intervention, and there is also a need to amend few rules. Moreover, intervention of various other government bodies is also required for integrating public transport systems. All this would be possible only if Umta comes into effect,” said a Kochi Metro official.
 
 Umta will be the body that coordinates operations of buses, autorickshaws, taxi services, Kochi Water Metro and Kochi Metro. “The Act has to provide the legal backing for all these activities,” added the official. 
 
 KMRL has succeeded in bringing together auto rickshaw operators in the city on one platform. Similarly the bus owners have also agreed to come together on a single platform. The Metro agency is also gearing up to float a tender in order to work along with online taxi service companies to provide last mile connectivity. They said all these efforts were progressing at a fast pace.
 
 Meanwhile, KMRL spokesperson said they are expecting the Umta bill to be presented before the state assembly without much delay. 
 
 “It is on the chief minister’s table. It wouldn’t take long for the government to enact it,” she said.
 
