UDAIPUR: A   of the   at its principle seat at Jodhpur has issued directions to state government to take necessary steps towards   in Udaipur Lakes and all other places in Rajasthan where it is available. The court also issued instructions to Udaipur collector to ensure that no activity that may cause harm to the existence of endangered fish, takes place in Lake Badi which is one of the finest   in the country. Presently, Mahaseer fish is found only in this lake of Udaipur. Presence of Mahseer in water is a mark of healthy aquatic life.

 The order was passed on Tuesday by Justice Vinit Mathur and Justice Govind Mathur, upon a writ petition by Amicus Curie Sanjeet Purohit and Vinit Sanadhya who put up before the court a case study of Udaipur lakes that, they held, had been a natural habitat to Mahaseer fish years ago.
 
 However, the variety reached on the verge of extinction due to increasing pollution in water bodies here. The petitioners held that on one hand, the forest department has developed a hatchery and artificially rearing Mahaseer variety to conserve it, but on the other hand, government has planned and initiated water sports at Lake Badi to promote tourism. There is an ongoing construction for parking lot and other utilities that is feared to disturb the only habitat left for Mahseer and various other fishes. The petitioners held that activities would deplete water quality of the said lake which indeed will then not be a suitable for Mahseer or any other fishery to survive.
 
 Mahaseer-Tiger of Lakes
 
 Mahseer is a sporty fish dwelling in running cold waters, having its beauty like a peacock, its strength and poise of a lion and its size that of an elephant; widely known as ‘tiger of water’. It inhabit in pollution free waters. Its presence in stagnant water body indicates that quality of the water is good and is supportive to life in water. About three to four decades back, this fish was abundantly found in lakes of Udaipur when the water quality of these lakes used to be good. But now, water has become polluted which results in near extinction of Mahseer fish from lakes. A large number of annicuts and other small water structure have been constructed in catchment area of these lakes which irreversibly damaged breeding grounds of this fish. Hence, this and any other species of fish are unable to breed in local waters. Mahseer fish along with some other species is therefore on the verge of extinction. Mahseer has not only declined in number but also size of Mahseer has also reduced. Mahseer, which use to be 15-20 kg and five feet long, has now reduced to around 1kg.
 
 
