Child actors on TV are a different breed altogether. Along with their innate innocence, they possess steely determination and gritty ambition, too. Trained to be actors from the age of three or four, they are thorough professionals. They work as hard as their senior counterparts — shooting for 14-15 hours — juggle career with studies and even perform heavy-duty stunts. 

 However, stardom hasn’t translated into financial success for these child artistes. Though they have succeeded in creating a big space for themselves on the small screen — they even play title roles — it’s an open secret that they are paid much less than their senior colleagues. 
 While a verdict is not yet out on this one, BT takes a sneak peek into the lives of these young stars and their pay packets...
 
 
 The parent of a child actor says on grounds of anonymity, “My son is extremely talented and he works for around 14-15 hours daily. We are not greedy, but it is unfair that while seniors are paid big money for their lead roles, he gets paid only around `6,000 per day. We would have quit the show, but he is passionate about acting and wants to pursue it.” On the other hand, producers cite a different reason. Ravindra Gautam, producer of ' ', says, “We have child actors who charge more than most supporting actors. Lead actors start earning well only after at least a year of successful run. Most child actors play the childhood of the lead character, and their track enjoys a maximum duration of four-five months. However, when they play the actual leads and the show does well, they get handsome remuneration.”
 
 
  'Karamphaldata Shani'
 
  14-15 hours
 
  Around `6000/day
 
 Kartikey was spotted in a reality show — 'India’s Best Dramebaaz'. A Class VIII student, he has relocated to Umergaon (Gujarat), for the show’s shoot. In his free time, he loves to watch   and Rajinikanth films.
 
 
  'Peshwa Bajirao'
 
 12-14 hours
 
  Around `18,000/day
 
 Rudra started working when he was just four years old. He had played a differently-abled child in 'Balika Vadhu', along with debuting in Bollywood, as young   in ' '. He has learnt horse riding for the role and also performs heavy-duty stunts.
 
 
 ' '
 
 12 hours
 
 Around `6,000/day
 
 Kashvi started working in ads when she was just four years old. Before bagging the title role in 'Devanshi', she has acted in many shows like 'Jai Santoshi Maa', 'Adhuri Kahaani Hamari' and 'Sasural Simar Ka'. This Class II student travels from her home in Bhayander to the sets in Naigaon every day. Though travel makes Kashvi tired, it hasn’t dampened her zeal to perform tough stunts in the show. She only watches 'Chota Bheem' on TV.
 
 
 Ishqbaaz', 'Bahu Hamari Rajnikant'
 
 8 hours
 
 Around `12,000/day
 
 This young actor juggles two shows – one being shot at Filmcity in Goregaon and the other in Malad, Malwani. Aryan started working in ads when he was only three years old. He debuted as a baby in 'Saas Bina Sasural' and went on to do around eight telly shows. Like most of his young counterparts in the industry, he watches only Bollywood comedies and 'Chota Bheem'.
 
 
 Naamkarann'
 
 15-18 hours
 
 Around `8,000/day
 
 Born to actor parents (Ali Raza Namdaar and Anuradha Kanabar), Arsheen started working when she was only four years old. She has done around five shows and is also a theatre artist.The young actress, who plays the lead, is a pro when it comes to enacting difficult emotional scenes. She likes to watch 'Chota Bheem' and cartoon shows on TV. If there’s something this bubbly girl complains about, it is lack of sleep.
 
 
  'Meri Durga'
 
 8-10 hours
 
 Around `14,000/day
 
 Ananyaa is not new to television. She has played leads in two shows earlier — 'Bandhan' and 'Siya Ke Ram'. She started acting when she was six years old. Though a teenager, Ananyaa only watches cartoons on TV.
 
 
 
 'Waaris'
 
  12 hours
 
 Around `10,000/day
 
 Saaniya travels from Malwani to Vasai everyday for the shoot. She is as serious about her career as she is about studies — The girl has a tutor on the sets to help her with studies. She loves watching 'Doremon' and 'Chota Bheem' on TV.
 
 
 
 
