KOLKATA: Hollywood star and activist   has played many roles in her life, but one of the most interesting moments was perhaps when she made a sanitary napkin. 

 Her tutor was 23-year-old Uma Das, a youth leader of Apne Aap, a grassroots movement to end trafficking. Proud of her creation, Judd displayed the napkin to a select group of people, who assembled at an Apne Aap and Kolkata Gives event in Kolkata on Wednesday evening.
 
 Reference to her “I am a Nasty Woman” speech in Washington was expected from the audience that had the likes of Ruchira Gupta, Usha Uthup and  , many of whom had told her their foundation was literally shaken by her words. But what wasn’t was her story about an earlier visit, when she had threatened not to leave India unless a girl was rescued from a brothel. Equally engaging was her story about Uma: “She told me ‘I need to learn so that I can earn. When I earn, I continue to learn. When I do that, I can teach others to earn and learn’.” 
 
 This isn’t the first time Uma has had a brush with celebrities. In 2012, she met Hillary Clinton in the city and tied a band on her that read, ‘Cool Men Don’t Buy Sex’. She tied a similar wristband on Judd. “Ashley didi’s birthday is on April 19. Mine is on April 17. When she found that out, she told me I am like her little sister, ‘chhoto bon’. She asked me if I’d work in a movie with her,” said Uma who first met Judd at the Apne Aap picnic on Tuesday. The next day, the actress dropped in at Uma’s Munshigunj home. “Didi said not to be apologetic about being a divorcee and to fight for my son’s custody. At the sanitary napkin making unit, she made a set of three napkins in 10 minutes. Before leaving, she even wore mehendi,” Das said.
 
 Later in the evening, after she had read out a story, “The Last Customer” from Ruchira Gupta’s “River of Flesh”, Judd showed the mehendi, done by Juhi, a St Xavier’s girl associated with Apne Aap. About Gupta, she said, “When I visited India in 2008,   told me to meet Ruchira Gupta in India.” Before she left, Judd didn’t forget to praise the films, Jyotee Khatun’s “Yeh Bhi Ek Parampara” and Dolly Mahato’s “Kali”, which she watched on Wednesday. “I know a good film when I see one and these are really good,” she said.
 
