NEW DELHI: After the municipality   in Delhi were newly delimited, the major task ahead of the   was determining the seats to be   for women and SC/ST communities. The task is over and will be notified officially on Wednesday.

 Sources in election panel said that reservation of seats for SC/ST candidates has carried out on the basis of their population in the wards. The new formula used has resulted in multiple SC/ST municipal seats in a single assembly constituency. 
 
 “This may not go down well with the political parties as they will have to give multiple tickets to SC/ST candidates in a particular assembly constituency, while in others, the number of seats reserved for SC/ST candidates may be just one,” said a source.
 
 The remaining seats will be equally divided between men and women candidates on the basis of their numbering. The odd-numbered seats have been reserved for women, while the even-numbered ones will see only male representatives.
 
 The final list of seats reserved for women and SC/ST candidates will be notified on Wednesday and it will be put up on the Delhi government website.
 
 The delimitation, officially notified on January 17, changed the contours and the population profile of the municipal wards ahead of elections, likely in April. Though the number of municipal wards remained at 272, the current configuration of four wards per assembly constituency changed, lowering it to three in some while increasing it to seven in one. The average number of voters in each ward has been revised to 60,000 based on the 2011 census.
 
 The State Election Commission now has to complete the work of reassigning polling booths to wards and to demarcate the new boundaries of wards using maps in consultation with the three corporations.
 
 Political parties will face a major challenge in the assembly constituencies where the number of wards has gone down from the existing four because they will now have to reorganise their entire block structures. This is likely to have a bearing on the ticket allocation too.
 
 
