NAGPUR: In a major boost to the infrastructure of Nagpur metro region, RITES has found the second phase of   viable. The feasibility report will be ready in the second week of February. The total cost of the project is about Rs 7,000 crore at today’s prices.

 A source in Mahametro (earlier NMRCL) said that RITES, which is the general consultant for phase I, had done three types of surveys for finding the viability of phase II - traffic, topographic and geotechnical. 
 
 “These surveys for Automotive Square to Kamptee stretch,   (near  ) to Kapsi (on Bhandara Road) and Lokmanya Nagar to Hingna have been completed while that for Mihan to Butibori and Wasudeo Nagar to Wadi stretches is going on. The process will be completed in the coming days,” he further said adding that RITES had found enough traffic volume on the three stretches to make Metro Rail on them viable. 
 
 The expansion of Metro Rail is being done on the advice of union transport minister  , who believes that the project would not become viable until it provided connectivity to nearby towns and villages like Kamptee, Hingna, Kapsi and Butibori. 
 
 The total length of the expansion project will be 34km and it will have four lines. “The longest is from Mihan to Butibori whose length is 13km. Next is 10km stretch from Automotive Square to Kamptee. The metro corridor will be extended up to Hingna from Lokmanya Nagar (Hingna depot) covering a distance of 2km. The east-west corridor will also be extended up to Kapsi from Prajapati Nagar (near Wardhaman Nagar). A branch line will connect Wadi with Wasudeo Nagar station,” the source told TOI.
 
 Most of the expansion project will be elevated. “Mahametro will try to build maximum at grade (ground level) stretch between Mihan and Butibori. The cost of elevated corridor is about Rs200 crore per km and so the total cost will be approximately Rs7,000 crore. The cost of the present project is Rs8,680 crore,” the source said.
 
 The execution of phase II of Metro is a long way. Once the feasibility report is ready, RITES will start preparing the detailed project report (DPR). The DPR will submitted to Mahametro board followed by state cabinet,   and union cabinet. “Work on this phase will start only after union cabinet approves it,” the source said.
 
