MEERUT/SAHARANPUR: Cases of farmer suicides jumped 42% across the country in 2015, a second consecutive drought year. In 2013, 745 farmers took their lives in UP .Bundelkhand, already facing drought-like conditions, witnessed large-scale migrations last year. Last March, 24 deaths were reported from just one district -Jalaun. These were shown as “normal“ in official records. This grim picture in UP's food belt may force tillers to think differently while voting this time around.

 This vast tract is getting angrier by the day. In fertile west UP, where sugarcane is grown on 70% of cultivable land, farmers dominate the electorate, up to 75% in pockets of Baghpat and Bijnor. Sugarcane supports almost 5 million farmers, generates over Rs 30,000 crore annually through production of sugar, ethanol, spirits, power and gur.
 
 Prof RK Juyal, who teaches economics at Meerut's NAS PG College and a farm sector expert, says: “The caste factor is predominant among west UP's farmers too. But their never-ending ordeal seems to be blurring the fault lines.They might end up voting as farmers, not as Jats, Gujjars or Dalits.“ Juyal may have a point.
 
 Here's why: C Showing his 25kg sack of cauliflower, Chetram Kashyap, 42, a Kairana farmer who grows seasonal vegetables on his four bighas, says: “This will sell locally for Rs 70, of which Rs 20 will go to transporters. The crop is good, where are the returns? Thanks to demonetisation. Farmers must unite. Only then will politicians hear us.“
 
 Agriculture's share in UP's GDP has slipped. Sugarcane, a mainstay, is in trouble. Prices have been unstable, farmers' dues are pending -which factories have to pay farmers.
 
 Sugarcane farmers are miffed with politicians quoting “misleading figures“ on their dues to buttress achievement claims. Ram Kumar, from Deoband, Saharanpur, remembers: “The PM was here last May and claimed we've got cane dues, which is far from true.“
 
 On May 28, 2016, addressing a Saharanpur rally,   claimed that cane grow ers' dues had reduced under his government's watch, to Rs 700 crore to Rs 800 crore from Rs 14,000 crore. Records from the cane commissioner's of fice in Lucknow say the dues stood at Rs 5,795 crore the day the PM spoke.
 
 Major parties began efforts to harness this farmer discon tent much ahead of the polls.   undertook a 2,500-km `Deo ria-to-Dilli' kisan yatra last September, held khat sabhas, promised loan waivers and power tariff reduction by 50%.
 
 In its manifesto,  's prom ised to cancel loans of small and marginal farmers, and ad ditional loans at 0% interest.
 
 Then came demonetisation.
 
 Its timing, when kharif was ready for harvest and rabi to be sowed, was bad. Many couldn't harvest on time due to the cash crunch, labour ers couldn't be paid; many others couldn't sow, there was no money for seeds.
 
 “We went with Modi-BJP in 2014,“ says Mritunjay Singh of Meerut. “Bad years followed. Notebandi hit us hard. When we gather to discuss polls, we gather as farmers. I hope we vote for the party that can address our grievances.“
 
