PANAJI
 Former India captain and midfielder Mauricio Afonso remembers being reduced to tears by happenings on the   pitch just twice.
 
  The last was when he was forced into retirement. An awful show against Tollygunge Agragami in 1999 shouldn’t have been the last one saw of the great   midfielder but coach TK Chathunny wasn’t willing to give him another chance. The first time Mauricio cried till late in the night remains interesting.
  
  “It was in 1994 after we lost in the Federation Cup semifinal at Fatorda,” remembers Mauricio, now into his 33rd consecutive ‘season’ at Dempo, first as player, then assistant coach and now chief coach.
  
  It wasn’t an easy loss to digest. Mauricio was the one who missed a crucial penalty that would have given Dempo a spot in the final. The Federation Cup was being played in Goa for the first time but more importantly, the disappointment came against   Sports Club, their greatest rivals. That Mauricio joined Dempo from Salgaocar in 1984 remains incidental.
  
  Salgaocar had, by then, won the Federation Cup – India’s premier football competition before the advent of National Football League in 1996 – twice in 1989 and 1990, and made it to the final for a record four years in a row between 1988 and 1991. It was understandable that an envious Dempo wanted to replicate that success.
  
  In football circles, it’s common knowledge that club founder Vasantrao Dempo would hardly get ruffled with the team’s losses, unless it came against fierce rivals Salgaocar. And it has been like this right from inception in 1967. The Dempo-Salgaocar rivalry – never mind the extremely friendly relations now between the owners now – has been the stuff of legend and has driven Goan football for five decades.
  
  Any football team in Goa will always be measured by the success of these two giants. If Salgaocar won a record haul of Federation Cups and became the first Goan team to win the National Football League in 1999, Dempo’s five national league titles between a dominating eight-year period starting 2005 remains unmatched. They are also the first Indian club to make it to the semifinals of the AFC Cup, Asian football’s second-tier club competition, and apart from the IFA Shield, have won every major trophy in Indian football.
  
  What sets Dempo apart, though, is their fierce loyalty to the laidback or ‘sussegad’ style of play. Since the days of Joseph Rathnam as coach in 1972, Dempo have stayed faithful to the style that, in recent times, got compared to Barcelona’s tiki-taka. It’s a style – also adopted by Salgaocar till the early nineties — that earned them plenty of plaudits, and for their most successful coach, Armando Colaco, an offer to coach the national team.
  
  Armando’s stint with the national team was brief. He didn’t really have the time and space to impose his philosophy of possession football on the national team but it left nobody in doubt that Dempo’s style was the envy of others, and their own pride.
  
  Since inception in 1967, 50 years have yielded trophies galore. With a style of their own.
