Mumbai:   is set to exit the credit cards joint venture with  , selling its 26% stake to private equity giant   for around $300 million, people directly familiar with the matter said. Carlyle is said to have emerged as the front-runner pipping the other shortlisted bidders, Credit Saison of Japan and  , after GE decided to sell shares in the two decade-old JV.

 The deal with Carlyle is moving ahead after the SBI increased its holding to 74% each in SBI Cards and Payments Services and GE capital Business Process management Services — the two entities that run the credit cards business. Last week, the largest state-run lender said it was infusing Rs 1,160 crore to buy partial stakes of GE in the two entities. The SBI held 60% in cards and payments and 40% in the business process management units.
 
 When contacted, GE spokesperson said the exit from SBI-card joint venture entities is in line with global strategy, with respect to GE Capital. “The process is still ongoing and we will share details when it concludes,” the company added. SBI declined to comment, while Carlyle could not be reached for immediate comments.
 
 Carlyle is buying into the two entities at a time when SBI has emerged as the second largest player in the credit card business after HDFC Bank. The company has also moved up to the number two spot in total card spend. SBI has a 15% market share of the card business in India, led by  , which has around 30% share. The top five banks, which include Citi, ICICI Bank and Amercian Express, account for over 75% of credit card spend in India, which is expected to be close to Rs 4 lakh crore.
 
 According to SBI source, the bank wants to operate the card business as a subsidiary rather than a joint venture and have better integration with its core banking operations. The bank plans to dovetail credit cards with debit card payments and merchant acquisition business. The bank plans to install card swipe machines with 10 lakh merchants which will increase acceptance of cards and at the same time give the bank an opportunity to lend to these retailers.
 
 Earlier, media reports had said Carlyle was bringing in Cognizant as a technology partner or vendor, which would be formalized once it bags the deal. Carlyle’s current investments in Indian financial services sector include PNB Housing Finance and Edelweiss Capital. It held a stake in the country’s top mortgage lender HDFC in the past.
 
 
