MUMBAI: Over two months after a series of   during the   ( ) examinations, the state has set up a committee to understand the problems and suggest solutions. TOI was the first to report to the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education about question papers being circulated on messaging applications before the exams began at 11am.

 A government resolution issued on Friday said the state formed an eight-member committee to find out why and how the papers made it to messaging applications before the exams began and to suggest solutions. “The exams (SSC and HSC) give direction to a student’s life. Hence, malpractices in the exam can have a negative impact on sincere and hard-working students,” said Suvarna Kharat, deputy secretary of the school education department.
 
 Starting March 2, photos of five HSC question papers (Marathi, Secretarial Practice, Political Science, Physics and Mathematics and Statistics) made it to WhatsApp almost half an hour before the exam started.
 
 TOI received copies of the question papers too. The board had refused to term it as a leak.
 
 The committee will be headed by the commissioner of education and will have on board the police commissioner of Navi Mumbai or his representative, a member from the cyber crime cell and officials from the educational department. The state has also brought on board a representative from the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). “Within two months, the committee will have to submit a report on the reasons as to why pictures of the question papers were out of the exam centre, identify flaws in the examination system, suggest corrective measures and also ideas for ensuring such cases are not repeated. The committee must also suggest ways to reduce cases of copying,” said Kharat in the GR.
 
 Principals in the city have welcomed the move but wanted representation on the committee. “It is a good move that the state has acknowledged the need to review their examination practices. However, the committee should have had on board principals and teachers too. We are at the exam centres and know the ground realities. Principals’ inputs would help the state fix the problem better,” said Prashant Redij, Mumbai school principals association.
 
 HSC   leaks this year
 
 March 2 | Photos of Marathi papers were shared on WhatsApp 20 minutes before exam
 
 March 4 | Three question papers (Secretarial Practice for commerce candidates, Political Science for arts students and Physics for science students) were similarly leaked
 
 March 6 | Mathematics and Statistics paper for commerce stream, all eight pages of it, leaked on WhatsApp at 10.23am. 
 
