NAGPUR: A 19-year-old girl from Chandrapur gave a new lease of life to two persons at   Hospital in Nagpur. Her family donated her kidneys after she was declared brain-dead on Saturday. Since there is no organ retrieval centre at Chandrapur, the family went to the trouble of bringing the comatose girl to Nagpur in an ambulance just so the organs could be donated.

 The young girl had been seriously injured in a car accident a few days back. She was undergoing treatment but couldn’t recover from the coma, and when her condition worsened a neurosurgeon in Chandrapur declared her brain-dead. However, regulations require a four-member team has to certify a person as brain-dead. So, after consultation with the family, the girl was brought on ventilator to Nagpur’s Wockhardt Hospital, where the hospital team declared her brain-dead.
 
 “Actually, the family wanted to donate other organs like liver and heart too. But since the patient apparently had a cardiac arrest her heart was declared unfit, and so Mumbai hospitals didn’t come to harvest the organs. We tried to convince the family to donate skin, but they were not ready. So, we allocated the two kidneys. By rule, one went to Wockhardt Hospital. Later, we couldn’t get any patient in time for a transplant at other hospitals, so the second kidney too went to Wockhardt as it has the maximum waiting list,” said Dr Ravi Wankhede, secretary of   (ZTCC).
 
 K Sujatha, centre head of Wockhardt Hospital, told   that her team went with an equipped ambulance to Chandrapur and convinced the family to bring the patient to Nagpur. “It is really amazing that the family agreed easily. Luckily, we could get both kidneys for patients on the waiting list,” she said.
 
 The girl’s father, who is a government servant, said, “We had read about organ donation in newspapers, and I had thought of donating my body. But I never thought I would have to do it for my daughter. However, when the time came we took the decision to donate her organs.”
 
 Both the transplants were performed by senior uro-surgeon Dr Sanjay Kolte. Dr   and Dr Jitendra Hazare harvested the kidneys from the donor. “It is really heartening to see that smaller city people as well as doctors are now quite aware of organ donation. Dr Sandip Irpatwar, neurosurgeon from Chandrapur, called to tell me about the brain-dead patient. He set the ball rolling for the organ donation process, and we just took over from there,” said Dr Kolte.
 
 Dr Kolte operated on the first recipient, a 40-year-old man, on Sunday from 12.30pm to 6.30pm. He then transplanted the second kidney on a 29-year-old woman from 12.30am on Monday to 4.30am. “The donor family was very cooperative. They waited all these hours for the procedure and then took the body back to Chandrapur,” he said.
 
 Dr Sameer Chaubey told TOI that the 40-year-old man had been on dialysis from seven years and desperately needed a kidney. Dr Suryashree Pandey, nephrologist at Wockhardt, said that the 29-year-recipient woman had been on dialysis for past three months. “She was suffering from kidney disease from a year-and-a-half. She too had no option but to wait for cadaver donation since there were no fit donors in her family. She was really lucky to get the kidney,” she said.
 
