PATNA: State finance minister   on Monday said Union finance minister  , who will present general budget in Lok Sabha on Wednesday, should make adequate budgetary provisions to back 66 centrally sponsored schemes (CSS) so that the state’s requirements are met, and also announce new criteria to focus on fast-paced growth of the state, apart from making budgetary provisions for the clearance of Rs 5,000 crore payable under Backward Region Grant Fund (BRGF).

 “The actual amount received by Bihar during 2016-17 has been far less than what the Union finance ministry had provided for CSS in the budget. The sum received is not adequate to meet requirements of the state,” Siddiqui said, adding that CM  , on several occasions, has sounded the Centre to clear the money pending under BRGF and also accept the demand regarding the grant of special category status (SCS) to Bihar. 
 
 Sources said the state has not received the money as provided for in the current fiscal against schemes like   (SSA), national health mission, mid-day meal, Rashtriya Krishi Yojana, Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan and PM Gramin Sadak Yojana (PMGSY), among others.
 
 Everyone at the state headquarters appeared to have kept their fingers crossed vis-à-vis the general budget. Earlier on January 4, Siddiqui had presented the state’s demands and concerns at the pre-budget consultative meet of states’ finance ministers in Delhi.
 
 However, like the senior officials, Siddiqui also felt that Jaitley, this time, would make provision for the clearance of the funds pending under BRGF. During the current fiscal nothing of the sort was done, as a result of which Rs 3,200 crore of the pending Rs 8,200 crore could be cleared as special assistance facilitated by the mediation of Niti Aayog vice-chairman Arvind Panagariya, Siddiqui said.
 
 In the light of the fact that the Centre had almost rejected the demand for the grant of SCS to the state, Siddiqui said if the SCS was ‘difficult’, Jaitley should spell out new criteria to facilitate special assistance to Bihar.
 
 Siddiqui said Jaitley should provide funds for projects that could be taken up and implemented as part of the Rs 1.25 lakh crore special package that PM   had announced, as no such mention was made in 2016-17 budget. He added that the Union budget should have allotments to develop ‘smart villages’.
 
