BENGALURU: An   has alleged that Mayakonda   abused him verbally, and has made a complaint to higher  .

 Principal secretary to primary and secondary education department Ajay Seth has written a letter to Sait, saying Shivamurthy shouted at him for 15 minutes.
 
 In the letter, a copy of which is with TOI, Seth said the MLA visited his office at 11am on January 27 seeking a progress report on the application for grants for four of his schools and one PU college. The institutions receive grants through the grant-in-aid scheme of the state government.
 
 Seth wrote: “He (the MLA) abused me and threatened me with consequences if I do not put up favourable notes for approval of the request. He kept shouting at me for 15 minutes.”
 
 Shivamurthy’s institutions — D Devaraj Urs rural high school, Chitradurga, Swami Vivekananda high school, Doddaganganahalli, Davanagere, Indira Priyadarshini high school, Gollarahatti, Davanagere, New Education Public School, Yelahanka and Pamparuda Swami PU College, Davanagere — operate under the Chitradurga District Banajara Youth Society of which the MLA is chairman.
 
 The letter continued: “The records of the department show that all 5 schools/colleges were closed for several years and were having inadequate strength in the years they functioned. The society has been evading information to the department and its officers. The MLA alleged that I was ganging up with corrupt officers, to deny grant to the society. He termed me as anti-Dalit officer.”
 
 Chief minister Siddaramaiah has reportedly been asked to intervene. In a letter to Siddaramaiah, Sait said he received a confidential letter from the principal secretary a day after the incident took place.
 
 Sait added in his letter that despite the principal secretary speaking to the MLA calmly and explaining the reasons for the institutions not being covered under the scheme, the latter kept threatening him. “The MLA is humiliating the government by treating officials in this manner,” Sait is said to have told the CM.
 
 Shivamurthy told TOI that his institutions were being crippled by the delay in releasing funds. “We have been visiting Mr Seth for many days but our schools have not been added to the list of institutions eligible for the grant. In my capacity as chairman of the SC/ST welfare committee, I have reiterated to the government that education is the only aim for our people. Despite furnishing all required documents, the issue is still hanging with no response from the officials,” he said.
 
 Shivamurthy said he did not have funds to cover salaries. “If my institutions do not have much strength, it is because we do not have the funds to pay teachers and run the institutions. The grants are supposed to come in use for us to pay teachers their salaries. It’s a chain reaction. I have written to the CM regarding this as well many times,” he said.
 
