PUNE:   feel excessive use of   is taking a  . 

 Distrust, egoism and reduced tolerance levels are common among those addicted to chatting on cellphones. That is why even trivial issues frequently get blown up with serious consequences, experts say.
 
 The techie who killed his software engineer wife and then committed suicide because of her habit of sharing intimate details of their marital life with friends on WhatsApp is an example of the emotional toll social media is taking. Reduced communication between husband and wife, excessive secrecy over issues and use of cellphone, and even extra-marital affairs are not rare because of social media's misuse, experts say.
 
 Nearly three out of every 10 cases coming to the women's grievance redressal cell of the city police has its roots in the excessive use of social media. "There is an increase in the number of disputes arising out of misuse of cellphones, chatting and social media. It is seen more in high income families," says the department's head, inspector Seema Mehendale.
 
 Such is the addiction to the virtual world that victims find it difficult to communicate face-to-face even with their family members, says Anuja Joshi, a marriage counsellor, batting for complete transparency between husband and wife for marital bliss.
 
 "We regularly counsel men and women on the hazards of excessive networking. Setting passwords and chatting late into the night should be strictly avoided," she says.
 
 It takes several sessions of counselling to get warring couples understand the consequences of their excessive use of cellphones, says Rashmi Joshi, another marriage counsellor regularly dealing with such cases in the women's cell of the city police. "Meanings of friendship and closeness blur quickly in the virtual world, making it difficult for users to be objective about their relationship in the physical world," she says.
 
 Cases of divorces have gone up and lots of marriages are crumbling because of social media platforms, says Suchitra Date, a city-based counsellor. 
 
