Hyderabad: It is the lack of awareness and technical skills that hinders small and medium business (SMBs) from harness the power of the digital medium and to address this issue, tech giant Google conducted its first ‘Digital Unlocked’ session for local SMBs in Telangana in Hyderabad on Wednesday. There are over 51 million SMBs in India and Google, in the last three to four years, has helped over 8 million SMBs go online.

 Google global CEO Sundar Pichai had launched ‘Digital Unlocked’– a combination of online, offline and mobile training programme -- for training SMBs in January this year. Since its launch in January 2017, Google has hosted   workshops in over five cities and trained over 4,000 businesses across offline and online programmes.
 
 The offline training is being conducted in partnership with FICCI and over the next three years, 5,000 workshops will be held across 40 cities. The online training comprises a set of 90 video tutorials and for mobile audiences, Google recently launched Primer, a mobile app designed to teach digital marketing skills. Primer is available in English and Hindi. and will be launched in Tamil, Telugu and Marathi versions in the next few months. In the last two months, Primer has seen over 5.5 lakh downloads. 
 
 On the importance of using digital tools, Google vice-president (India and South-East Asia) Rajan Anandan, quoting findings of a recent study conducted by Google and KPMG, said, “Of the 51 million SMBs in India, only 32% have a web presence…SMBs that leverage digital tools grow revenues and profits twice as fast as SMBs who are not on the internet. The ones who embrace digital are able to go beyond their geographies … and also employ five times more than those who are not on the internet. As more SMBs get online, the contribution that SMBs will make to the GDP will increase from 37% to around 46-48% by 2020.” Kevin O’Kane, managing director, marketing solutions, Google Asia Pacific, pointed out that SMBs are an important segment as around 50% of the world’s GDP is contributed by SMBs. “We believe technology is a democratizing force. For SMBs, it can be an enabler to build their voices online, make them discoverable by users and provide insights that lead to real business results.” This apart, Google India also announced the launch of SMB Heroes, a nationwide program designed to recognize SMBs that have gone digital to grow their business. 
 
 
