GAYA: Chief minister   on Sunday warned the bootleggers who were misusing innocent children as carriers of illicit liquor in the state and said they would have to pay a heavy price for their misdeeds. 

 Addressing a public meeting at Suggi in Amas block of the district,   said liquor ban was not the end of his campaign and his government was trying to make the state ‘nashamukt’ (intoxicant free). CM said he was aware of the hiccups in enforcing prohibition in the state, but such operational problems only strengthened his resolve to make the state free from intoxicants.
 
 He also said even officials, irrespective of their positions, would not be spared if they were found violating the liquor ban. The warning assumes importance in view of reports that a senior official of   division has been behaving erratically in public, leaving several tongues wagging fast.
 
 The CM said as per his information, bootleggers were misusing innocent children for   from neighbouring states. Such offenders were committing double crime and they would have to pay for their misdeeds heavily.
 
 Buoyed by the somewhat enthusiastic response from the women in the audience, the CM exhorted them to work as watchdogs to see that prohibition was being effectively enforced in their areas. They should also keep vigil and see to it that the erstwhile alcoholics were not going for non-liquor options for intoxication. “De-addiction camps are the right place for such persons and women should not shy away from taking them to the camps for counselling and other forms of de-addiction,” he said.
 
 “I have come here to see the implementation part of his seven resolves (saat nischay) that include tap water, electricity and toilet facility in each household,” he said. Nitish was happy to note that the village had done satisfactorily well in implementing four of the seven points of his government’s resolve. The CM personally turned on one tap to see water supply through it.
 
 The four points on which Suggi passed the CM test are electricity supply, tap water, drainage and concrete pathway.
 
 Law and PHED minister Krishnanandan Verma and animal and fisheries resources minister Awadhesh Kumar Singh were also present.
 
 Later, the CM visited   and offered prayers at the Buddha shrine. He also visited the meditation park on the south eastern side of the temple.
 
 The CM also reviewed the ongoing development projects of Magadh division. Chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh and DGP P K Thakur were present at the review meet.
 
 
