HYDERABAD: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), scrambling to save itself from an impending budget crisis, has decided to hold general body ( ) meeting in the evening. Departing from the normal practice of holding such meetings in the mornings, GHMC has decided to hold the next Council meeting on March 25 at 4 pm.

 GHMC budget's for 2017-18 has been proposed for Rs 5,643 crore and was supposed to be approved by the general body. The general body consists of 150 corporators, nominated members and ex officio members such as MLAs, MLCs and MPs and it was expected to go through approving the budget before February 20 and then send it to the state government after a clearance from the GHMC standing committee.
 
 Though the Corporation's standing committee okayed the budget proposals in the first week of December, 2016 as per schedule, the Council meeting has not been held since then. Mayor   called for a general body meeting on February 18, 2017 but it was adjourned as some of the corporators and MLAs requested to postpone the meeting as they were busy in campaigning for   elections for both Teachers and MLAs constituencies for   districts.
 
 While the election code is in force till March 21, the GHMC also cannot hold meetings when the Parliament and Assembly are in session as MLAs, MLCs and MPs from the GHMC limits are ex-officio members of the Council.
 
 The only day available for the meeting is March 25 Saturday which is holiday for Parliament and the Assembly is expected to end its session by 2 pm.
 
 “GHMC has written a letter to the municipal administration department seeking permission to convene the general body meeting on March 25 at 4 pm. The Corporation is expecting clearance from the government in a couple of days,“ GHMC commissioner B   told TOI on Thursday.
 
 Official sources said if the budget proposals are not approved by the general council before March 31, it would lead to an administrative crisis and the Corporation may not be in a position to take up works as per the new budget. This may lead to legal wrangles.
 
