RANCHI: The state capital may suffer a   because of   in many localities.

 Villages such as Yamunanagar, Ramnagar and   are also reeling from the shortage of water. This might come as a surprise considering that the aggregate rainfall this year was the highest in the last five years.
 
 Pramod  , executive engineer ( ) says, “Such a situation has arisen because of unregulated exploitation of groundwater, which otherwise should be used only in emergency situations.” 
 
 Residents, however,claimed that they are forced to rely upon groundwater from borewells in the absence of an efficient water distribution channel in the city. Supporting this, Bhatt said, “We are trying to improve the distribution system but right now, the solution is water conservation and optimum water harvesting in all houses.”
 
 Last year, the government implemented a plan to impose a 150% tax on holdings without water harvesting systems in place and measures to introduce water harvesting systems in government buildings. 
 
 Months after the plan was put in place, reports, which were later the basis for a high court judgement, revealed that there were no rainwater harvesting mechanisms in houses of all the ministers of the government and the same was true for government buildings which either had no system or a dysfunctional one.
 
 City-based ground water conservationist Manoj Kumar said: “The state of implementation of the plan is dismal, most properties in the city are not registered as holdings. The plans for government buildings are only on paper and the systems which have been put in place are not so effective.”
 
 Responding to the claims made by the activist, Bhatt said: “The holding department of the corporation has not yet compiled the data but the citizens need to be motivated to conserve water, we are simply offering incentives. Many government buildings are also exploiting groundwater and we are making efforts to stop the practice. These reports by organisations are not reliable, we are creating ponds in villages, the solution for the city is better distribution and awareness among people.”
 
