Agriculture, the   in the country, seems to be   in   The past few years have seen agriculture emerge as one of the most sought-after undergraduate courses in the state. Career experts say , emergence of cutting-edge farming techniques, availability of research opportunities and an increased interest of youth in organic farming have made agriculture a preferred stream among students today. 

 While nearly 50% candidates who pursue BSc in agriculture join the stream out of genuine interest, another 20%-30% take up the course keeping in mind employment opportunities the stream offers, both in government and private sectors. Experts say about 10% of agriculture undergraduates are UPSC aspirants.
 
  Last year, the top three candidates in the counselling of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) had given away engineering seats in top engineering institutions to take up agriculture. The number of applications for agriculture and allied courses at the university is constantly on the rise. Last year, the university received around 39,772 applications while the count for the current year stands at 39,491 so far.
 
  With 10 more days left for the applications to close, the university expects to receive nearly 45,000 applications this year. The number of applicants is thus nearly 150 times the number of seats on offer (2,820).
 
 
 Professor of agriculture at TNAU,   says nearly 50% of applicants opting for BSc in agriculture hail from the farming background. “In many cases we see students studying agriculture only to solve the problems faced by their parents in the profession. Some of them pursue higher studies while others become entrepreneurs in the field of agriculture,“ Krishnan says.
 
 With agriculture being a subject in the UPSC examination and the university providing coaching classes for the same, many students pursue the course to crack UPSC and other competitive examinations of the state and central governments.
 
 “Besides, the stream provides many research opportunities. Emergence of farming options like soilless farming, hydroponic farming and organic farming have also contributed to the increase in aspiring agriculturists and farmers,“ Krishnan says.
 
 Farmers admit to the growing interest among youth in the study of agriculture and agricultural practices.C Thangaraj, president of Farmers Association in Coimbatore says, “Five years ago, we did not have a single person below 30 in our association. Today, at least 15% of our 5,000 members are youngsters. The association will soon have a youth wing.“ He says the young members will be celebrating the association's farmers' day for the first time this July .
 
 Young farmers, who recently began practising agriculture, say the rising demand for organic farming and new farming techniques have motivated them to take up agriculture as a serious profession. “I started organic farming with friends in 2012. At that time, there wasn't a huge demand for organic produce. But, today I see many youngsters practising organic farming," says 32-year-old  , who quit his job in media to  
 
