THANE: Thane city is know for its rich heritage, lakes and forts. One such fort is  , which today is known as the Tehsildar-PWD office. 

 The record states that since 1862 it is being used as the Tehsildar mamlatdar's office and Collector's record-room. Located in the fort at present are the offices of the Prant Officer, Bhiwandi, the Mamlatdar and Thane town or Thane nagar police station which has a lock up. Except the wall at the back, nothing remains to show the building of being that of a fort.
 
 Once a fort, the structure was built by the Marathas right in the heart of the city. However, since decades the fort has been used as a Tehsil office.
 
 Talking about the history of the fort, veteran historian  , said, “The fort was built by the Marathas in the mid-17th century and was known as ‘Diamond Fort’ But in current situation, Hirakot comprises of present day Thane Nagar Police Station and Tehsil office, which is also known as the PWD office.
 
 Tetvilkar reveals that the fort was built by Sir   was a Maratha General during the Peshwa Period. “After conquering the Thane fort, which is the current Thane central jail by Marathas in 1740 from the Portuguese, Biwalkar constructed Hirakot Fort and started using it as his ‘kacheri’ an office,” said Tetvilkar.
 
 Later, during the British reign, they converted the fort into the Tehsil office or the Mamlatdar of Thana and Bhiwandi region. The change was brought in for the convenience of the governance. It was basically a collector’s record room then. The reconstruction and restoration had changed the structure a bit, but the base remains the same.
 
 The   by the gazetteer of India, Maharashtra state for Thane district describe that Hirakot fort was very well constructed, especially its location. It states that, except part of Chendni, the fishermen's suburb to the south, which contains a landing-place, a customs-house (now demolished) and a railway siding, lies to the north of the railway. On the southeast of the creek, is Chendni and further towards north is the Mahagiri quarters. In the late 18 century, between Chendni and Mahagiri lied a salt swamp of some thirty or thirty-five acres, which was reclaimed in 1880 by a dam. The present day bazar or station road runs half a mile north from the station to an open space or square lined by small tiled houses and poor shops, showing little but the most ordinary brass-work, cloth, and groceries. About a quarter of a mile from the station, to the east of the road, stands the Hirakot or Diamond Fort, now the Mamlatdar's or Tehsildar office.
 
 
