COIMBATORE: Deepak   dominated the Indian Touring class by not just breaking his jinx but also by winning a double in the MRF MMSC FMSCI Indian National Racing Championship held in Coimbatore on Sunday.

 Deepak, 30, from Bengaluru beat  , winner of the first race on Saturday, and the defending champion  , with a dominating performance.
 
 Chinnappa, who started from third, had a great start and by the end of first lap, he moved up two spots to the front and established a comfortable lead which he maintained till the end of the race.
 
 "I have never won on this track since making my debut in this class three seasons ago. In both races, I had good starts and managed to keep the lead though I had issues with the brakes. In the second race today, I tucked in behind Arjun in the first lap, but I realised that he had some handling issues with his car. So, I waited for the right opportunity to pass him. He then ran wide, exiting the last corner, and I passed him. Thereafter, I managed to keep my lead and win breaking the jinx. I am extremely happy," said Chinnappa, son of two-wheeler legend Chandra Kumar Chinnappa.
 
 Behind him, Narendran who had moved from eighth to second by end of first lap, and Ramaswamy, winner of the first race on Saturday, were involved in a tight battle.
 
 Exiting the last turn into the start-finish straight, Narendran spun viciously. This dropped him to the back of the field. He fought his way back to third where he finished, behind Chinnappa and Ramaswamy.
 
 "I had too much speed exiting the last corner and my rear tyres caught the dirt on the edge of the track which led to a huge spin. I managed to get back, but had lost track position. Still, I fought back, but had too much to make up in the end," said Narendran. 
 
 Narendran clocked the fastest laps in both the races today. He survived close attention from veteran   (Prime Racing) of Coimbatore to finish second.
 
 In the Volkswagen Ameo Cup, Karminder Singh from New Delhi won the first race followed by A   of Chennai and Aditya Pawar of Mumbai. In the second race, A Sandeep Kumar won it followed by Karminder Singh and Dhruv Mohite.
 
