NEW DELHI: The municipal elections may be fought on civic issues like public sanitation and broken roads, but the six Muslim candidates fielded by BJP, including the non-Muslim wife of a Muslim member, are relying on PM Narendra Modi’s popularity to garner votes. The first-time contestants hope the emotional appeal of Modi’s ‘sabka saath sabka vikas’ slogan will shatter the perception that Muslims don’t vote for the saffron party.

 “If anything, the party’s electoral victories in the past three years and the results in UP have shown that Muslims want to be a part of the mainstream,” declared Atif Rashid, president, Delhi Minority Morcha. BJP may not have nominated any Muslim as a candidate in UP, but have not shied from giving them the responsibility of winning from areas in the capital dominated by the community. Of course, Rashid hastily clarified that “BJP is a party that gives tickets to candidates not based on caste or religion, but on their ability to win.”
 
 Dr Sunita Singh, wife of BJP member Abrar Siddiqui, is trying her luck in the all-women constituency of Sarita Vihar. A homeopathic doctor, Singh believes that her party’s stand on the untenability of triple talaq will rake in the votes of Muslim women. Others, of course, think that national issues like these will not influence the electors. As Mohammad Tariq, a tailor at Abul Fazal Enclave, pointed out, “The Muslims will vote on local issues, not factors like divorce laws.”
 
 Voters elsewhere shared similar thoughts. Said Dr Anwar Zahir in the Batla House ward: “We have a problem of drinking water here, besides terrible sewerage that leads to dengue and malaria.” Asked why Muslim-majority areas appeared to be so neglected despite his party holding the reins in the municipal corporations for the past decade, BJP candidate from the seat, Kunwar Rafi, glibly blamed the incumbent Congress councillor.
 
 “How could the   know about the problems in this area when the councillor did not inform the House?” asked Rafi. Hoping this defence would find favour with his electorate, the electronics repair shop owner depends on the poor amenities in the ward to tilt the Muslims vote in his favour.
 
 Faimuddin Saifi, BJP candidate from Delhi Gate ward, agrees that local issues will colour the outcome of the polls. His plank, based on his views about the most important lacks of Muslims, is education. “Many in our area don’t know how to apply for a voter card or open a bank account,” said Saifi, who owns a steel fabrication shop in Noida. Calling BJP a democratic party, he said that “it gives weightage to all sections of the society. This was proved when many Muslims voted for the party in UP.”
 
 Another factor that the BJP candidates calculate will give them victory is the high number of candidates in the fray and the resulting division of votes. AAP, JD(U) and Swaraj India are among the new combatants in the city’s municipal polls.
 
 
