KOLKATA: The CID will question four officials of Ruby   who had cleared the employment of “fake doctor”  . The former director of the hospital, who now holds a very senior position in another private hospital near Moulali, was also served a summons on Wednesday. The state investigating agency is likely to call a director of the hospital for questioning.

 Alam is one of the eight   who had been employed in health institutions across the state. A CID officer said they would also summon several other officials, both from private hospitals and the Sasthya Bhawan, to ascertain whether they played any role. “This is just the beginning,” said a source.
 
 Police sources said they were investigating if any of these board members were aware of the fact that Kaiser’s degrees were fake. “Our only intention to record their statements is to ascertain that the exact rules and conditions under which Kaiser was employed as a floor medical officer between March 2010 and September 2011. We have received a reply in this regard from Ruby and we will be tallying the individual responses,” said a source.
 
 The CID will also try to find out if any of the members had any links with the Bihar and Tamil Nadu-based medical institutions from where the eight fake doctors had claimed to have passed, said sources. “We got to know that fake marksheets were procured at high fees. We need to be sure that no one in Kolkata was helping the gang members,” said an officer.
 
 A separate questionnaire is being prepared for a senior functionary of a central Kolkata hospital and a Swasthya Bhawan official who allegedly helped the fake doctors get clearance and character certificates.
 
 According to cops, these fakes have been practising in Kolkata, Murshidabad and Nadia and even issuing death certificates.
 
 “Ruby hospital has fully cooperated with us regarding the appointment of Kaiser Alam as the RMO. We have leads that at least two officials who are no more on the payroll could provide us sufficient evidence. We are trying to contact them,” said a senior officer.
 
