BENGALURU: New police chief T   conceded on Monday that the force is ill-equipped to deal with increasing cybercrimes, but said the problem was not unique to the country's IT capital. 

 "Cybercrime is increasing across the world and in the country too. The police department is establishing a separate cyber cell in each police station across the state to tackle these cases. There needs to be renewed focus on training," Kumar said soon after taking charge.
 
 He said: "Special attention will be given to cyber security and we''ll train our personnel. We'll rope in experts from various fields to help us."
 
 Stating that he had no clue about being named the commissioner, Kumar said he'll work closely with all additional commissioners in-charge of the city to maintain law and order.
 
 On real estate and illegal land deals, Kumar said: "So far as the real estate mafia goes, there will be no support or soft treatment from the department. Also, the introduction of the Rera Act will curb many of them." "Protection of women and children will be one of the prime goals of the department. We'll also ensure that our personnel become more people-friendly and respond promptly to all residents," Kumar said.
 
 Kumar, who declined to answer questions about his sudden appointment, said: "I'll continue all the initiatives put in place by my predecessors. Policing is my primary mandate and I'll focus on it."
 
  On the upcoming elections, he said: "From a constable to the commissioner, everybody in the police department has a mandate to ensure free and fair elections. The upcoming elections will be no different. I have a team of experienced officers who have dealt with elections before and we'll do it again." 
 
 Among other things, Kumar said cracking down on inter-state gangs indulging in chain-snatching, solving pending cases and overall core policing will be taken up on priority. 
 
  Commissioner with 'shortest' tenure 
 
   , who will go down as the commissioner with the shortest tenure - seven months - said on Monday he leaves office with the satisfaction of putting in place several people-friendly initiatives. 
 
 "Whether it is passport verification, the Dial 100 initiative, or the Pink Hoysalas for women in the short time I was in office, I think I have managed to put in place several people-friendly initiatives I'm happy about," Sood told TOI.
 
 On his sudden exit, he said: "I did not ask why when I was appointed commissioner and I will not ask why when I am asked to leave." 
 
 Although Sood's tenure was more than that of MD Singh - who occupied the position only for five months, two days in 2002-2003 - the latter left because he was promoted.
 
 Sood said solving the   molestation case was the most satisfactory moment for him. "It showed people we can act even when there was no complainant and that we are serious about our jobs. The case was personally very satisfying," he said.
 
