NAGPUR: Motorists will no longer be able to get away with mere payment of fines for traffic violations like speeding, jumping signal and using a mobile phone while driving. Commissioner of police Nagpur K Venkatesham, during the inauguration of the 28th   2017 at  , and at Nagpur  , on Monday said riders/drivers caught violating these offences would have their licenses suspended. 

 The top cop clarified that repeat offenders will face cancellation action. “Our focus will be on overspeeding and drunk driving as this move will help in curbing road accidents. The police is more concern over reducing mishaps as in 2016, about 310 people lost their lives,” said the CP. He also added that the safety drive was unsuccessful. This year, he proposes to intensify enquiries into traffic related accidents and will ensure that those found guilty will be strictly punished.
 
 “Owning a driver’s licence means one is fully aware of traffic rules and regulations. Ideally there is no need for a constable at every junction,” explained Venkatesham. Suspended driving licence will be revoked only after the violator undergoes training programme, he informed.
 
 Commissioner of   Shravan Hardikar, chief engineer at public works department Rajnikant Shinde, regional transport officer (RTO), Nagpur (city/rural) Sharad Jichkar and deputy RTO Ravindra Bhuyar presided over the inaugural function. Janakrosh chief Ashok Karandikar and president of Jeevan Suraksha Prakalp Raju Wagh were also present. DCP (traffic) Smartna Patil and secretary of Janakrosh Ravi Kaskhedikar were present during the traffic police awareness programme. The fortnight will be held from January 9 to January 23.
 
 Lack of basic courtesy among the general public eliminates sense of responsibility towards safety, according to Hardikar. “People tend to jump traffic signals in absence of RTO officials. We have accepted these violations as a part of our daily routine. We must realize that each one of us is equally responsible for everyone’s safety,” he said.
 
 Though Nagpur is now on the verge of becoming a smart city, according to Hardikar, no matter how much the government invests in technology pertaining to road safety, it will be of no use if people don’t adhere to the norms in the first place.
 
 Karnadikar said, “We must care about the safety of other people in the same way care about the safety of homes. It is meaningless to obey traffic rules only when the police is present.”
 
 Wagh announced that his NGO will take a pledge for road safety every Monday throughout the year. “If a majority of the public makes up its mind, by 2020 everyone will be seen following traffic rules properly,” he said.
 
 About e-challans, he said the traffic police will not be allowed to collect compounding fines after January 23 this month. He said if any cop demands or accepts compounding fines from  , complaint will be filed against the policemen with Anti-Corruption Bureau.
 
 
