NASHIK: The state government has decided to allow widening of 6-7.5m roads to 9m across the city to get benefits of premium   (FSI) and transfer of development rights (TDR). 

 The decision will ensure that over 3,000 housing projects across the city, which did not receive building completion certificates from the   (NMC) because of the cupboard issue, get clearances. 
 
 Moreover, plot holders on smaller roads (6 and 7.5 metre), who were deprived of premium FSI and TDR as per new DCPR, will also get benefits of premium FSI and TDR. 
 
 Chief minister   on Monday chaired a meeting involving a delegation of Confederation of   Developers Association of India's (Credai) Nashik chapter in Mumbai. A Credai delegation was led by its president, Sunil Kotwal, and former Maharashtra president of the association Anant Rajegaonkar. Also present at the meeting were district guardian minister  , local BJP MLA Balasaheb Sanap and municipal commissioner Abhishek Krishna. 
 
 Kotwal told TOI: "We had a meeting with the chief minister over various issues concerning the real estate. There had been some ambiguity in norms. Several positive decisions were taken during the meeting to settle some issues pending for long." A senior civic official privy to the development confirmed the development. 
 
 Plot owners on smaller roads will have to surrender side margins from both the sides for road widening. TDR uploading and premium FSI were not allowed on smaller roads in the recently published Development Control Planning Regulations (RCPR) of the city. But it was allowed on road with 9-metre and above. 
 
 Plot-owners and builders with projects on smaller roads (6m and 7.5m wide) had expressed disappointment as could not get benefits of the premium FSI and TDR. But the fresh decision of the government to convert the smaller roads into 9m roads will help these plot-holders get the premium FSI and TDR. 
 
 The state government had on January 9 issued a notification of DCPR. But permissions to the old proposals submitted to the municipal corporation before January 9 were to be given permissions as per old norms. Accordingly, a transit policy will be incorporated in the new DCPR under 'saving' clause. This decision was also taken at a meeting. 
 
 Moreover, there were issues pertaining to front and side margins, open space on podium and amenities plot provisions in the new DCPR of Nashik. The state had published DCPR of Pune city before Nashik city. It has been decided the issues above will be settled in line with the Pune's DCPR. The provisions for front and side margins, open space on podium and amenities plot provisions will be in line with Pune's new DCPR. 
 
 Kotwal said, "The state government has also decided to revise the rates of premium FSI for affordable housing. The state government has asked the municipal commissioner to define the rates of premium FSI. He will submit the proper proposal about the rates to the state government." 
 
  What is cupboard issue? 
 
 As per norms, a cupboard with size upto 8x2 sq ft is allowed. But most of the developers have violated the norms by extending the cupboard spaces upto 12x2 sq ft or even upto room length. The NMC administration has stopped giving the Building Completion Certificates (BCCs) to such properties for violation of cupboard spaces and FSI. There are over 3,000 such properties and the BCCs of which have been stopped by the government. But as smaller roads are to be converted to 9 metre and they will get benefits of premium FSI and TDR. The cupboards issues are now to be regularized by using additional premium FSI and TDR, which they will get on the roads after widening.
 
