PATNA: Five days after breaking away from the grand alliance in Bihar, chief minister   on Monday heaped praise on  , saying no political party or individual had the capability to trounce the PM in the 2019 general elections. “Nobody else (other than Modi) can occupy the PM’s post. Now nobody has the strength to beat Modi,” Nitish said.

 Addressing his first press conference after forming a government with BJP, Nitish said he had complete faith in the PM’s intention to crack down on benami assets across the country.
 
 Nitish, who headed the JD(U)-RJD-Congress government in Bihar till last week, ridiculed   for his statement that he had come to know about Nitish’s intention to join hands with BJP three months ago. “Why didn’t the Congress vice-president tell me that when I met him in Delhi recently before parting ways with his party?” the JD(U) president asked.
  
  
 Nitish explained his decision to walk out of the grand alliance, saying continuing in it would have meant compromising with corruption.
 
 “Questions were being raised on my commitment to zero tolerance on corruption after graft charges were levelled by the CBI (against Lalu Prasad’s family),” Nitish said.
 
 "I asked them (RJD) to give point-wise explanation before the people, but they made fun of our party and spokespersons.They asked whether JD(U) spokespersons were CBI or police despite the fact that we had not asked them to give explanation to my party or me. Instead of giving explanation,   said it would give explanation when authorities asked for it,” Nitish said.
 
 The CM said the RJD, after its legislature party meeting on July 26, said   would not resign, come what may. “We discussed all this at the JD(U) legislature party meeting the same day later, and the meeting approved my proposal to resign,” he said. He added that he then went to Raj Bhavan and submitted his resignation letter.
 
 Nitish said he ignored the media’s extensive reporting on the corruption case. “I thought such things happen in an alliance, but people started questioning my policy of zero tolerance on corruption,” he said and added that it was then that he decided to quit.
 
