Cyber Hub visitors can now get a glimpse of both Delhi and Gurgaon in   created by the  . The latest graffiti by the group members shows a variety of aspects from both the cities. So, if there is India Gate and the Lotus Temple from Delhi, Gurgaon is symbolised through high-rise buildings and  . The Delhi Metro has been painted orange and the Gurgaon Metro is blue.

 
 
 Interestingly, the artists did not just choose random components for the graffiti, but had to pick them from a list of 400 elements. "It has been commissioned by a hotel and Cyber Hub and we were given a list of 400 elements to pick from. We chose to display those which define both the cities," says Yogesh Saini, a member of Delhi Street Art.
 
 Not exactly street art, since it’s in the middle of Cyber Hub, Saini calls the graffiti public art instead. He also says this is the first time that anyone has painted graffiti at Cyber Hub. It will be on display on a temporary wall structure for the next 10 days. He adds, "We have also created graffiti in different areas of Gurgaon and some of them champion social issues."
 
 
 
  
  
  
  From Delhi to Gurgaon: The wall has Delhi (above) and Gurgaon features (below) (BCCL)
 
 
 
 There are different elements of Gurgaon in the graffiti, which also includes a cow. When asked whether this was so because Haryana has more cows, an artist replies, "No. Cows are present everywhere. Why should Gurgaon be singled out?"
 
 The project, which was completed on Sunday, is getting a lot of attention and visitors have been coming just see the artwork.
 
 
 
  
  Selfie with the wall: Visitors take selfies with the graffiti (BCCL)
 
 
 Ridhima Khanna, who works at Cyber Hub, says, "One of the reasons we are so enthusiastic about this graffiti is because it’s very different. It is like an unexpected urban gallery. I only wish it was permanent." Another visitor, PN George, says the graffiti makes Cyber Hub look like a “wonderland”. "It’s quite interesting to see so many elements on a wall like a visual feast," he says.
 
 
