The   on Wednesday directed   to decide expeditiously within four weeks on 64   filed by dance bar owners for getting licence under the old law.

 A bench of Justice Dipak Misra and Justice R Banumathi said the competent authority of the government must take a decision on granting licence for running dance bars. The court had earlier granted licence to three   to run under the old law and subsequently told the government to decide on licence requests from other bar owners as well.
 
 The state government recently framed a new law—Maharashtra Prohibition of Obscene Dance in Hotels, Restaurants and Bar Rooms and Protection of Dignity of Women Act 2016—putting stringent conditions on bar owners to run their business. According to the  , liquor would not be served in the area where bar girls performed dance. 
 
 The rules framed under the law also make it mandatory for bar owners to place CCTV cameras inside bar room and allow them to carry out their business only between 6.30pm and 11.30pm.
 
 The new law has been challenged in the SC by the Indian Hotel and Restaurant Association, which contended that the restrictions were imposed to prevent them from carrying out their business. It said the new rules violated the earlier Supreme Court judgment, which had held that it was a fundamental right of owners and bar girls to run bars.
 
 While hearing the constitutional validity of the new law, the SC had expressed reservation on certain provisions saying that they violated its earlier order and allowed dance bars to operate under the old law.
 
 Justifying the stringent law to put various restrictions on dance bar owners, the state government had informed the SC that in many cases, dance bars were being used to run prostitution racket and it was duty-bound to put curbs on such activities.
 
 “The dances in question are not classical forms of dances. The young girls dancing in such premises are not trained artists. There is no art in their dance. Such dances do have very limited entertainment value. In such a situation the possibility of dances becoming obscene to attract customers is inherent,” the state government had said in its affidavit filed in the Supreme Court.
 
 
