HYDERABAD: Mehendi was still fresh on her hands when a newly-wed bride was found hanging from the ceiling of her father's house on Thursday. The poignancy couldn't be missed.

 Arshiya Begum, 30, became a widow just two days into her marriage and she snuffed out her life just 48 hours after her doctor husband was brutally murdered. She was the third wife of   in this gory tale of revenge and unrequited love. 
 
 The doctor was found murdered in his clinic at Vijaya Nagar Colony of Old City on March 21.
 
 Arshiya left behind a suicide note at her Misrigunj residence in Kalapathar on Thursday, requesting her family to bury her next to her husband's grave.
 
 Police said Arshiya committed suicide after sinking into acute depression after her two-day-old marriage was cut short after her husband's second wife, Naseem Sultana, got him killed after getting a whiff about his third wedding. Naseem's brother, Azeemuddin, got into a violent argument with the doctor and slit his throat, leaving him bleeding to death. Arshiya and her family were in the dark about Mirajuddin's second marriage. Also, the doctor did not divorce Naseem before his nikaah with Arshiya.
 
 “She sank into depression with the shocking turn of events and ended her life. At the time of marriage, her family was present, but the doctor did not disclose about his marriage to Naseem. This disturbed her,'' assistant commissioner of police (Charminar) Ashok Chakravarthy told TOI.
 
 The suicide note stated -I Arshiya want to end my life.I cannot lead this life. God is responsible for my fate. Please bury me next to my Miraj, which is my last wish. I want to meet Miraj.
 
 Police said Miraz first married 20 years ago and his first wife is an NRI. While the marriage did not last, he married Naseem Sultana after a divorce and has two children from the second marriage. 
 
 “We don't know why Miraj decided to go for a third marriage without obtaining a talaq from Naseem. His marriage with Arshiya was an arranged one. When Naseem's brother came to know about it, he picked up an argument with Miraj and killed him,“ said the police.
 
 Humayun Nagar inspector Ravinder said there was no raging dispute between Naseem and Miraj during their 18year-old  , but the doctor wanted to marry again.
 
 Miraj's brother-in-law, Azeemuddin, an electrical contractor, was arrested after he surrendered before police Officials said around 9am on Thursday , Arshiya, who was also a divorcee, before she married Miraj, locked herself in her room when other family members were offering namaz. She hanged herself and left behind a suicide note.
 
 When family members returned from the mosque, the door was locked and they had to force it open and found her hanging. She was shifted to Osmania   (OGH), where she was declared brought dead.
 
 Arshiya had plans to start a family with Miraj by shifting to a new house and some postmarriage ceremonies were yet to be completed. Arshiya hailed from a middle-income family and had completed her B-Com.
 
 On March 21, Naseem Sultana's revenge on Miraj was enacted with gruesome precision. Sultana's brother, Azeemuddin, snatched a paper-cutting knife in the clinic and the attacked the doctor. 
 
 Before the murder, he dropped his sister at her house in   and then drove to Miraj's clinic.The doctor did not come home for two days while he performed his nikaah with Arshiya.
 
