The   Uprising is remembered, among other things, for the dauntless participation of women. In a battle where the valour and conventional artillery of the natives could not withstand the modern cannons and guns of the British,   still stood tall. On the eve of the revolution’s 160th anniversary, TOI salutes the sheroes of Avadh.

 The fortitude of Begum Hazrat Mahal stands out in the annals of Avadh. “She was way ahead of her times and displayed great strength, strategy, grit, balance and vision – all needed to be the rule a kingdom and heart of people alike,” says Lucknow-based historian Roshan taqui.
 
 History books pay glowing tributes to her military skills and statesmanship. The Begum had mobilised masses to turn the revolt into a people’s movement. Indians captured British residents for 87 days and scared them with constant efforts of re-capture. According to Edward Henry Hilton, who penned an eyewitness account, “Those were the toughest days we (British) faced.” Author Anand Swarup Mishra in his book on 1857 martyrs notes that Begum herself appeared on the battlefield to encourage the troops who also included women. 
 
 But Begum’s descendants feel she should also be remembered for her principled life and honesty. “British tried to lure her to come back (from Nepal where she took refuge) for a hefty pension (Rs 15 lakh) but she refused to bow down,” says Manzilat Fatima, great great grand-daughter of Begum Hazrat Mahal.
 
 In the battle of Sikander Bagh, Uda Devi fought gallantly till her last breath, killing many European soldiers. Sergeant Forbes Mitchell, an eyewitness to the battle, wrote in his diary Reminiscences of the Great Mutiny: “In the centre of the inner court of   there was a large peepal tree with a very bushy top, round the foot of which set a number of jars full of cool water...Many of our men both of the 53rd and 93rd (regiments)...lay dead. The bodies...drew the attention of captain Dawson....he noticed that in every case, the men had evidently been shot from above.... he called Quaker Wallace to look up....’’
 
 The book adds, “Wallace had his rifle loaded and stepping back he carefully scanned the top of the tree. He almost immediately called out, “I see him sir!”...He fired and down fell a body...It was a woman. She was armed with a pair of heavy old pattern cavalry pistols, one of which was in her belt, still loaded and her pouch was still about half full of ammunition.”
 
 Azizan, a dancing girl in Kanpur, was a star among the men of the second cavalry. She is said to have motivated Indians during the revolt. British statesman and author Sir  , who penned Cawnpore – an account of the massacre during 1857, compared her to Theroigne de Mericourt – singer, orator and organizer in the French Revolution and called her Demoiselle (Young lady) Theroigne of the revolt. On the day of action in Kanpur, she was seen atop a horse dressed as a male, wearing uniform decorated with medals and armed with a brace of pistols. 
 
 Srinivas Balaji Hardikar, author of Sann 1857 ki Chingariyan (Sparks of 1857), notes that Azizan instigated the murders in Bibighar in Kanpur. Author and blogger Rana Safvi, who has translated a book on 1857, showers praise on Azizan. “She had personally nothing to gain and no personal grudges, unlike many other women who had joined the uprising. She was simply inspired by Nana Sahib. Her memory is still alive among the people of Kanpur. She dressed in male attire like Lakshmi Bai and rode on horseback with the soldiers, armed with a brace of pistols,” says Safvi.
 
 Rani Lakshmi Bai’s valour needs no introduction. The widow of Maharaj Gangadhar Rao, Laxmi Bai is called India’s Joan of Arc. A victim of British policy of Doctrine of lapse, Rani was asked to move to another place after the British fixed her pension. “Initially it was thought that Lakshmi Bai was behind the killing of British natives residing in the Fort of Jhansi, but that was not proved,” says Roshan Taqui.
 
