As much as we love our pets, there may be times when we can’t accompany them for a grooming session, or drop them off to the hostel before a business trip. Fret not, for you can now call a   (pet taxi) – a safe bet that will have your pet out on a delightful ride…

 A year and a half ago, when animal volunteer Priya Kailad and her husband Aditya Makharia were nursing 12 puppies, they realised the difficulties involved in adoption. “It took six months, and most funds got exhausted in transporting the pups to adoption camps, and going for checks to houses of potential adopters. The few pet ambulances that ply in Pune are also very expensive,” says Priya. This gave her the idea to combine her experience in animal care with that of Aditya’s in managing a car rental company, to start a taxi service dedicated to pets.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Just three months old, the service has two verticals. “The first and prime one is providing transport services for injured animals, and the second is to transport house pets,” says Aditya. On offer are pet hostel transfers, vet visits, airport and inter-city transfers, pet park visits, grooming visits, emergency calls, pet social events, joy rides and even cemetery transfers.
 
 
 
 Pet parents can pre-book the service or book on the spot. “After the car is assigned, we pick up the animal and drive it to its destination. Pet parents can also travel along at no extra cost,” says Aditya. A GPS system helps track where the taxi is and whether it’s being driven at a speed comfortable for the animal. “Parents not travelling along can track the taxi on their smartphones,” Aditya adds.
 There’s a detailed rate card with various packages, depending on the number of travel hours and distance involved. Rescue trips however work on a no-profit-no-loss system.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 The couple confesses that a key aim to starting the service was to contribute to animal welfare. “We are currently focused on PMC’s Animal Birth Control (ABC) programme, a major step in reducing human-animal conflict. We’re offering subsidised taxi services to transport animals for sterilisations,” says Aditya, who adds that they transport almost 20 dogs a day. “Animal welfare comes first for us, but there’s a cost involved in running a service. So what we make from doing pet transportation is put into animal welfare,” he adds.
 
 
 
 Priya says, “While most of the calls are from ABC, on an average, three to four calls a day are for pet transportation.” In fact, there are times they’ve had to decline because cars weren’t available. “We would love to expand, of course, giving priority to animal welfare,” Priya adds.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
