NEW DELHI: A   broke down on the   leading to a massive traffic jam that choked Ring Road in south Delhi for almost two hours on Monday morning. The driver had parked the bus diagonally on the road, blocking almost the entire stretch. 

 A similar situation was reported from Mayur Vihar flyover on the Noida Link Road. 
 
 Traffic police officers said this was a common sight during monsoon, with 8-10 DTC buses breaking down every day, causing massive snarls on all arterial roads. Though reports — along with solution options — were sent to the DTC about each   last year, the transport corporation failed to take any significant action, they alleged.
 
 Monday’s congestion on the Ring Road took more than two hours to clear, leading to snarls that stretched back to the Moolchand flyover almost five kilometres away. Officers said a slowdown on Ring Road during peak hours was enough to knock the traffic out of gear for the rest of the day. Even getting cranes to remove the bus proves to be a harrowing task, given the heavy traffic flow on these roads, they explained. According to a police estimate, 60-70 buses break down every week during summer. DTC officials and the police blame the ageing fleet for the crisis.
 
 Transport experts said that weather condition is one of the reasons behind the frequent breakdowns. Due to high temperatures, the engines, especially those in air-conditioned buses, get overheated and the excess load then leads to a breakdown, they added. Waterlogging at the mouth of the flyovers also adds to the problems.
 
 Experts also blamed manufacturing defects for the breakdowns. Though the entire fleet of low-floor buses has been facing this problem since the beginning, no efforts were made to fix them, they said.
 
 Once a bus breaks down, it takes more than two hours for DTC officials to remove the vehicle, said a traffic officer. “As soon as a bus stops, a pneumatic brake system kicks in and locks the vehicle there. Therefore, it is not possible to tow it away using cranes till DTC engineers remove the brake from the vehicle,” said an officer.
 
 Corporation officials admitted that the number of breakdowns was likely to go up each year with the fleet ageing. Spare parts for these buses are also very hard to come by, leading to more breakdowns.
 
 A similar instance was reported in Mayur Vihar when a UP Roadways bus broke down on the flyover. 
 
 
