MUMBAI: In a watershed decision, the   has ruled that the Indian   (INC) does not hold the power to grant recognition to nursing colleges. The order also restrains the council from publishing on its website materials indicating that institutes imparting nursing education have to obtain recognition from it.

 Colleges need to seek several levels of permission: from the respective state nursing council, the state government and the affiliating university . Now, with the ruling, permission from the INC is not required.Twenty years ago colleges never applied to the INC for its nod, ,said old-timers.
 
 The SC order said: “It is declared that the   herein has no authority to grant recognition to the in stitutions imparting nursing courses. It is further restrained from publishing on its website, materials indicating that the institutions imparting nursing courses have to obtain recognition from the INC and all such materials from which it could infer recognition to be obtained from Indian Nursing Council stand withdrawn from its website forthwith.“
 
 INC president Dileep Kumar said he planned to file a spe cial leave petition. “The INC does have the power under Section 13 and 14 to recognize colleges. If they are not recognized then graduates of such colleges cannot practise outside the state where the college is located,“ Kumar said.
 
 The case against the INC was filed first in the Karnataka high court and a single judge bench withdrew the power of the INC to recognize colleges.Later a division bench agreed with the cancellation of INC powers but allowed it to publish names of colleges on its website. On Monday , the SC said both points were interconnected and went by the single judge order.
 
 Petitioner K Venkatagiri, member,  , claimed the INC was a hotbed of corruption and its agent used to charge a hefty fee to publish the name of the college. “Agents of the INC used to demand between Rs 5 lakh and Rs 35 lakh for recognition,“ he said.
 
 INC member Dr Ramling Mali has written to all nursing colleges about its altered legal status. Also the president of the Maharashtra Nursing Council, Mali added: “Thousands of students used to look at the INC website before deciding which college to join. Now, they must just go by the list of approved colleges released by the state nursing councils.“
 
