PATNA: Agitating   students occupied the college’s administrative building and prevented officials and employees from entering the building for the   on Wednesday.

 Over 160 students have been on the warpath against the college administration and the principal to press for their demands, including hike in scholarship.
 
 One of the agitators said a section of senior students gave a written petition to the principal on March 30, demanding hike in scholarship and fellowship, provision of drinking water in hostels and deployment of adequate number of security guards at the girls’ hostel.
 
 “Instead of assuring us that our grievances would be addressed, the principal threatened that he would blacklist us and that we would be denied our degree,” said the student. 
 
 Following it, irate students locked college main gate and began their agitation from March 31. 
 
 The students also alleged that the principal misbehaved with the girl students and used derogatory language. They demanded an unconditional apology from the principal and his removal.
 
 One of the girl students said strangers often roamed around their hostel compound and passed lewd comments on the girls. “We complained to the warden, but to no avail,” she said.
 
 Another student said the hostels lacked water purifier and  . “There is only one tap, which is on the ground floor. It causes inconvenience to us. We will not call off the protests unless our demands are fulfilled.”
 
 Dismissing the allegations against him, college principal S Samantray told this reporter he didn’t use  . “I didn’t threaten any student. Why would I do that? I only asked them to give me time to discuss their demands with the college administration,” he said.
 
 The agitating students had a meeting with Bihar Agriculture University-Sabour vice-chancellor   on Tuesday. “The college will be asked to form a committee to look into the issue. But the students are not ready to listen to us. How am I supposed to know who said what? The principal cannot be removed just because the students want that,” he said.
 
 
