JAIPUR: Two labourers were killed and four others critically injured after falling from a height of 55 feet while repairing a ceiling seepage at   mall in   on Monday evening. An FIR has been lodged against two officials of the mall's maintenance department under Section 304.

 The accident happened around 2.30 pm when the six repairmen were atop an aluminium ladder without protection gear like helmets and safety belts. When the ladder was shifted towards a different direction, one of the ladder rods bent and it came crashing down, killing 40year-old Sandeep Payal and 30 year-old Narendra Jangid. They were declared dead upon their arrival to the hospital, while the injured are undergoing treatment, police said. DCP Kunwar Rashtradeep said, “We suspect negligence of mall officials in this connection, as they completely overlooked the safety of the men and let them work without protective gear. The ladder was shifted while Sandeep and Narendra were still atop it.“
 
 Some people have been rounded up and a case will be registered after interrogating them, he added.
 
 One of the injured labourers,   said they had warned their supervisor Kuldeep about the weak ladder, but he didn't pay any heed to the warnings. “Upon Kuldeep's insistence, we kept increasing the height of the ladder, and as soon as we moved it, the entire structure collapsed,“ said Singh.
 
 Additional DCP Hanuman   said the floor concerned has been closed down after issuing a notice to the authorities, and the traffic underneath the passage has been diverted to avoid any untoward situation.
 
 However, a press statement from the WTP called the incident a “mechanic failure,' and denied there was any negligence. “World Trade Park is extremely saddened by the accident. WTP has announced an ex-gratia payment of Rs 2.5 lakhs per person for the deceased's family and Rs 1 lakh for the injured and will take care of their total medical needs. We have also constituted a committee to inquire about scaffolding failure. It was a machine failure and not negligence. An enquiry has been ordered,“ the release said, adding that all celebrations have been suspended.
 
