BOKARO: Delhi Public School (DPS),  , is in the eye of a controversy after complaints surfaced about the institution asking students to purchase shoes from a particular   at exorbitant rates. DC Rai Mahimapat Ray on Thursday directed the district education department and the right to education (RTE) cell to inquire. 

 The district administration found the order of the school management to buy shoes priced at Rs 1,500-1,800 from a certain shop extremely harsh. The DC sent a letter to the director cum principal, Hemlata S Mohan, asking the school authority to reconsider its decision.
 
 Ray has also sent a letter to the chairman,  , and other authorities concerned stating that the decision is “ethically wrong and prima facie appears to be a toxic example of mass commercialization in a temple of learning”. 
 
 The DC said, “The DPS Bokaro management has been asked to reconsider the draconian order to students asking them to purchase shoes from a certain shop.”
 
 A parent, whose two children are studying in DPS, said, “Earlier, we were asked to purchase books from Vidya Mandir, Chakki Moad, and uniform from another shop. Now again we are being asked to purchase shoes from Vidya Mandir. It’s unethical.”
 
 The DC said the administration is taking up issues related to violation of RTE norms by schools. “Recently, I received a written complaint from a parent pleading that the rules of DPS be changed regarding purchase of shoes for students from nursery to class XII from a particular shop. “Many other parents also verbally requested for a review,” he said. 
 
 The school had issued a circular on April 6 to students and parents saying, “As you are aware that till the last academic session the school uniform included two pairs of shoes one for days with physical education periods and another for the rest of the week. Students have a tendency to indulge in different sporting activities wherever they get an opportunity to do so...during lunch break, arrangement period.... Playing with black shoes on leads to incidents of students having ligament problems.”
 
 The principal said that in order to accommodate the request of parents in this regard and to facilitate students to overcome such problems, it was decided they would introduce a single pair of shoes designed scientifically for growing children.
 
