KOCHI:   strongman and   vice-president   was forced to quit from the state cricket body ending his two-decade long association with Kerala cricket. Though Mathew maintains that he quit to 'make way for other able administrators' in KCA, his resignation comes day after allegations of 'misappropriation of   funds and unethical acts' were levelled against him by one of the representatives of KCA's district units and in wake of the growing dissent against him in state cricket body.

 Mathew, who had quit as KCA president early this year following the directives of Supreme Court directive to implement Lodha reforms, tendered his resignation as secretary of   on Saturday which meant that his primary membership in KCA has been revoked and he no longer remains a member of the state cricket body. But Mathew made it clear that he won't quit as BCCI vice-president as he is a nominee from West Zone.
 
 With KCA deciding to comply with the draft constitution sent by CoA to state units, it is learnt that Mathew was fast losing support in the state cricket body and the latest corruption complaint only made matters worse for him.
 
 In an e-mail sent last week to KCA president, secretary and treasurer, a representative of   in KCA, Pramod K, has alleged that TC Mathew's act has maligned the reputation of KCA and he had misappropriated its funds for personal gains. In his complaint, Pramod also requested the office-bearers to discuss his complaints in KCA general body or central council and conduct an inquiry against its former president, failing which he threatened to move the high court against Mathew.
 
 But Mathew dismissed all these allegations as baseless. "It's a frivolous complaint. There is no truth behind it," Mathew told TOI.
 
 During his long innings in KCA as an office-bearer, Mathew has faced several charges of corruption and even faced vigilance enquiries against his name but never did he relinquish his office. Asked why he chose to move out of KCA now, when he maintains that the allegations against him were false, Mathew said "You know I am not holding any official post in KCA now. I have not attended any meeting of KCA since January. But some people are hell-bent on tarnishing my name and are targeting me. So, I thought it was better to quit since I didn't have much of a stake in KCA."
 
 TOI got in touch with the complainant, Pramod K, but he said that he wouldn't want to divulge on the contents of the mail he had sent to KCA officials but made it clear that he has enough evidence to prove his claims.
 
 Meanwhile, it is learnt that Mathew had a fallout with his one-time protégé and current KCA secretary   as the latter had started taking decisions without consulting Mathew. "The stories of division in KCA are not true. In fact, myself and our president, Vinod, had met Mathew even on Saturday in Thodupuzha and he communicated to us that he would like to move out of KCA after long innings. We accepted his wish. We have now called for a meeting of office-bearers of KCA in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday," said Jayesh.
 
 TOI has reliably learnt that in the above-mentioned meeting on Saturday, both the KCA president and the secretary suggested to Mathew that it was better to move out of KCA in wake of latest allegations against him. They also communicated to Mathew that they will be forced to act against their former president if they called for a general body, following which Mathew voluntarily tendered his resignation. 
 
