AURANGABAD: The City Chowk police have booked a dentist’s husband and in-laws under various charges, including subjecting the woman to cruelty, seeking to abort her baby girl and demanding  .

 All the six suspects, including the dentist’s husband  , his parents, brother, sister and her husband, locked their house disappeared soon after a complaint was lodged against them, police said, adding that a hunt has been launched for them.
 
 The 25-year-old woman has stated in her complaint, lodged on February 17, that her husband and in-laws refused to accept her and her five- month-old baby until she brought Rs 20 lakh from her parents. They also allegedly demanded that a flat owned by her father in the city be transferred in Tadibuddin’s name. Her father is a retired college principal from Amravati.
 
 The   said in her complaint that she married Tadibuddin, a resident of New   near Iqra School on December 16, 2015. “After behaving well for only eight days, her husband, his Taufiquddin along with others started harassing her under one pretext or the other. 
 
 “The suspects told the dentists that her father had not given them enough jewellery, dowry and a car. Over a period of time, they took the jewellery given to her by her father and sold it off without her consent,” she said.
 
 In the meantime, the woman got pregnant. However, the suspects allegedly started forcing her to go for an abortion and also forced an such abortion pill down her throat, police said. 
 
 When the woman informed her parents about her ordeal, her father visited her in-laws, who allegedly told him that they did not want the child and wanted the pregnancy to be terminated. They also allegedly forced the dentist’s father to take her to his home and abort the pregnancy if he ever wanted her to stay with them. 
 
 The dentist’s father took her to his home as her husband and in-laws stuck to their demand. Subsequently, the dentist gave birth to a baby girl in September 2016. The in-laws were upset over the birth of a girl child, the woman has alleged.
 
 When the dentist’s family again approached her in-laws, they allegedly stuck to their cash and flat demand. They also allegedly forged a document showing that her husband had given her divorce (talaq). 
 
 All the six have been booked under various sections of the IPC including 498 A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 468 (forgery), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) 315 (act done with intent to prevent child being born alive or to cause it to die after birth), 511 (stealing jewellery), 34 (common intention) and also under provisions of dowry act. 
 
 
