PANAJI: Restoration does not mean renewing an old painting, it is an act of conservation, says artist Sandesh Naik, who, last month, became the first Indian to receive the prestigious City and Guilds of London Institute’s Lion Award, and the first Asian to win a medal for excellence in picture and  . Naik won the ‘Outstanding Achiever of the Year’ Lion Award for his instrumental role in the restoration of 30 centuries-old paintings housed at the Archbishop’s palace.

 “I wasn’t aware about the seriousness of art conservation until I was selected for the award. I have been informed that out of 2 million restoration artists across the globe, 84 were selected for the institute’s gold medal and from that 11 were selected for the Lion award,” Naik told STOI, holding up both the gold medal and the Lion award. He won both.
 
 The artist has worked on reviving centuries-old paintings housed at the Archbishop’s Palace in Altinho and the seminary in Rachol. He has also painted detailed portraits ordered by his clients.
 
 It all began with a chance encounter last year that led him to the Archbishop’s Palace where UK-based Caterina   was conducting a workshop titled Restorers without Frontiers. 
 
 While holidaying in Goa, Goodhart was rather disheartened to see that many of Goa’s centuries-old paintings on the palace’s walls were fading into oblivion. After having a dialogue with the archbishop, she took it upon herself to restore the artworks by training fine artists from Goa. Thus, opening new doors of opportunity for artists in this skill.
 
 Out of the 15 people that applied for the course, eight were selected on grounds of their commitment and dedication to restoring Goa’s heritage paintings. The 45-day course thus commenced in January 2016. At the end of the course, Goodhart nominated Naik’s name to City and  . 
 
 For restoration, they had to first study each painting. Research entailed its history, the person in the painting, its painter’s background, the era in which it was painted, type of paints and varnish used, etc.
 
 “The restorers then used organic paints made from the elements of nature. We therefore had to ensure that natural dyes (sourced from London) were used for restoration in order to maintain the authenticity of the centuries-old paintings. Restoration after all does not mean renewing something; it is an act of conservation,” Naik said.
 
 Besides natural dyes, they used solvents for cleaning, gold leaf for framing and organic varnish. A single artwork takes anywhere between 15 to 20 days to clean up, followed by meticulous efforts for retouching, repainting and varnish, which may go up to a month.
 
 One of the paintings, which dated back to the 18th century, proved a Herculean task for the restorers. Its borders were eaten by termites as a result of which the painter’s name had been lost. The frame had been realigned erratically by the previous restorer, who used an irreversible adhesive to attach the painting to frame. There was no data that could help them trace the professional.
 
 “Records of previous restorations have not been maintained by the palace officials, which made it difficult for us. Now, we have maintained detailed records with photographic evidence explaining the technique and work that went into the restorations. This way, 50-100 years from now, when the paintings require restoration again, the artists will have all the data,” Naik said.
 
 With several such artworks in the country in dire need of attention, Naik is of the opinion that the government should set up a restoration and conservation unit for paintings in churches, temples and mosques in India.
 
 “For Goa’s centuries-old paintings especially, restoration cannot be done single-handedly. It should comprise of a team of artists, who have knowledge about history, chemistry, architecture and archaeology,” he added.
 
 Having completed Level 2 and 3 of the project since last year, Naik will now be trained in Level 3 of this project. Following its completion, he intends to approach the Goa state museum to help restore the centuries-old artworks there.
 
 “A lot of precious paintings need to be saved. We have started approaching churches across the state to restore their artworks and will steadily work in this direction with Goodhart’s guidance,” Naik said.
 
 
