HYDERABAD: An eight-year-old boy lost his life when a bike coming in the opposite direction hit the vehicle he was travelling in, the front wheel piercing his throat at Kadthal in the city outskirts on Sunday.

 In what would have been a routine trip, Md Arshad, a class 1 student was travelling in a Skoda Octavia with his father   and grandfather   at 9.30am on the busy Hyderabad-Srisailam highway. The family was heading to their farm house in Kadthal from their home at Kandukur when things went horribly wrong.
 
 As they were passing Kadthal in the city’s outskirts, 28-year-old Sairam, who was coming to the city on Yamaha FZ bike from  , decided to overtake an RTC bus. In his bid to race ahead, Sairam took to the extreme right of the road and crashed into the oncoming Skoda sedan at high  .
 
 The bike driven by Sairam, a taxi driver from   in   district, hit the vehicle with the front wheel piercing through the wind-shield of the car. Arshad who was sitting in the front seat lost his life on impact with the wheel. 
 
 With the collision, Sairam was catapulted on top of the sedan, killing him on the spot. Pillion rider Mogalaiah fell on the road. His condition is said to be critical, Kadthal SI G Srikanth said, adding that since he is unconscious, police are yet to get more details. While Arshad was declared brought dead at a local hospital, Jani Miya, who was driving the car, and Arshad’s father suffered minor injuries. 
 
 After the  , traffic on the Hyderabad-Srisailam highway came to halt for about an hour. Police quickly reached the spot and pulled both the vehicles to the side enabling the traffic to move freely again. “The bike rider Sairam was at complete fault. He was not wearing a helmet and while trying to overtake the bus, he went to the extreme right of the road without checking if any vehicle was coming from the opposite direction,” the SI said.
 
 Police registered a case under section 304-a and 337 of the IPC. The bodies were shifted to mortuary for post-mortem examination.
 
