HYDERABAD: The large-scale open burning of unsegregated garbage is choking residents of the city’s IT belt. Based on complaints from residents, the   (TSPCB) has now issued a show-cause notice to the gram panchayats of Nizampet, Pragathinagar and Bachupally regarding the burning of municipal garbage in an open government plot spread over 30 acres in the Bachupally area.

 The notice, which was issued after an inspection of the plot, read: “Pragathinagar gram panchayat, Nizampet gram panchayat and Bachupally gram panchayats were collecting municipal garbage from their areas and finally dumping it openly in government land at Survey No. 186 of Bachupally village. Smoke is also emitted due to burning of municipal solid waste and thereby causing air pollution in the surrounding areas (sic).”
 
 “It was only after conducting a dharna and lodging several representations with the TSPCB that officials finally took the initiative of inspecting the site and issuing a directive. If the pollution levels continue to rise in this manner, the people living near Bachupally will develop serious health problems,” said Ratnagopal K, a resident of Hill County in Nizampet.
 
 Though the show-cause notice has come as a minor victory to them, residents who have been battling the adverse effects of air pollution in the surrounding areas such as Miyapur, Madinaguda and Kukatpally stress the need for stricter measures to put an end to the menace.
 
 “The residents of Miyapur are reeling under the effects of industrial pollution due to pharmaceutical firms. The open burning of garbage only makes things worse. Children in our gated community are forced to get regular medical examinations to check for respiratory diseases. My child has been diagnosed with asthma after we moved into our home,” said Ramanjeet Singh, a resident of Miyapur.
 
 Nanda Kishore, a resident of Madinaguda, said: “In spite of raising several complaints and holding several meetings with the officials of the TSPCB, the air here is still not fit for breathing. After garbage is burnt in the open, thick black smoke can be seen in the sky even on the next day.” 
 
 
