HYDERABAD: A research organisation has embarked on a   of Muslim marriages, divorce, including the now controversial oral triple talaq, and family relationships. 

 The survey is being conducted by the   in Development Policy headed by Abu Saleh Shariff, member secretary with the important  , released in 2006. The report showed the socio-economic conditions of   in the country. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, the centre’s Hyderabad-based research assistant, Syed Khalid Saifullah, said, “There are a lot of questions and misconceptions being spread about Muslims marriage, divorce and marriage practices. It was observed that there is no comprehensive study or survey to understand the trends and the actual reality with regards to the subject. There are over 300 questions which are scenario and circumstance based. The number of questions each respondent has to answer is based on the kind of responses he gives.” 
 
 The survey includes several questions for men and women in connection with marriage practices and also its documentation such as nikahnama and whether respondents are amenable to having conditions in the nikahnama.
 
 For instance, the questionnaire seeks to know whether respondents would opt for a model standardised nikahnama which prevents men from pronouncing oral instant triple talaq in one sitting and also if it forbids men from bigamy. The questionnaire later asks whether respondents would use such a nikahnama for their daughters, sons, brothers and other relatives. 
 
 The survey also touches upon how married couples have tackled marital problems. It also seeks to know whether arbitration, if at all, was done my family elders, counsellors, non-governmental organisations, qazis, Darul Qaza or courts of law. 
 
 Dealing further with the issue of talaq as well as oral instant triple talaq in one sitting, respondents have been asked whether they did so under the influence of alcohol and whether maintenance is being paid to the former wife. 
 
 Meanwhile,   president Asaduddin Owaisi issued appeal on his verified Facebook page, urging Muslims to take the survey. “Please participate in the survey crddpsurvey.in,” he wrote. 
 
 The survey had clocked in around 11,000 respondents till Wednesday night.
 
 
