 Bareilly: The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday issued orders seeking application from the public for Kailash Mansarovar Yatra. Two days after he was sworn-in, CM Yogi Adityanath had announced Rs 1 lakh to every pilgrim of Kailash Mansarovar Yatra (KMY), which is set to start on June 8 this year.   The government said that all the KMY pilgrims, whether they are part of the yatra conducted by the government of India or they do it through travel agents, will be entitled to get Rs 1 lakh each.    The state government, however, made it clear that only natives of Uttar Pradesh would be able to get the benefit. The beneficiary will have to produce her/his domicile, passport and Aadhaar card before applying for it.    Navneet Sehgal, principal secretary, department of religious works, said the amount would be given to the pilgrims before they start their travel. “Selection of pilgrims will take place only after they produce Aadhaar cards, domicile certificates issued by the district magistrate and an attested copy of their passports. All pilgrims will have to submit their application forms in a prescribed format to the department’s head office in Lucknow by post,” Sehgal said. The facility will be given once in a lifetime to every pilgrim, he added.    External affairs minister Sushma Swaraj recently said that the Centre had received around 4,000 applications so far for the yatra which w​as 1,400 more in number than last year. While thanking Yogi for his initiative, she said unlike previous years when a lot of seats went vacant, this year might see full occupancy as only 49 slots were left.    The ministry of external affairs makes arrangement for the yatra through two routes ​--  Nathu La and Lipulekh -- in coordination with the Chinese government.    Lokesh Anand, who runs ​a travel agency in Bareilly, told TOI, “We give a package through Nepal that costs Rs 1.08 lakh plus 9% tax. This package includes the hotel stay, air fares and three meals a day for a nine-night tour. Until last year, the number of pilgrims from Bareilly was negligible. But this time, after CM Yogi’s announcement, our phones haven’t stopped ringing.”