HYDERABAD: The inability of the government to release fee reimbursement amounts has turned into a bane for private  , degree and   colleges as they have been unable to pay salaries to their teaching and non-teaching staff for 17 months. In fact, the college managements complained that would have no choice but to shut down if the government failed to release the fee reimbursement amount for the academic year 2016-17. They threatened to launch a massive protest after the festival season if the issued remains unresolved till then.

 “While the entire state is eagerly waiting to celebrate Dasara and Bathukamma, we have nothing to look forward to. Unless the government releases the reimbursement amount for 2016-17, we won't be able to pay salaries to our staff," said Satish G, who owns a Junior Degree college.
 
 Pointing out how the majority of students from private junior colleges are eligible and dependent on fee reimbursement amount, managements said that in rural areas, the situation is even worse as 98% of students are funded by the government. “I have taken a huge loan from a private player to pay salaries for my staff as they were expecting some money to celebrate the festival. But the government can't expect us to keep borrowing money when they owe us crores,“ said Nagaiah, president of the Telangana Degree College Association, adding that many colleges in rural Telangana are on the verge of bankruptcy .
 
 Going by the current state of affairs, college managements insisted that the government release the reimbursement amount at least once in three months for them to be able to sustain themselves.
 
 “If the government can't clear all the dues at once, they should do it phase-wise starting with inter colleges followed by degree, pharmacy , PG, and engineering. If they do so, at least the problems of some colleges will be solved," said K Ramadass, convener,  .
 
 Students, on the other hand, said that even they have not been not paid their maintenance fee, which also covers their mess bills, and urged the government to at least release enough funds so that they can clear their dues. “Every year we get about Rs 5,000 as maintenance fee. But this has been pending for almost one and a half year now. The government should at least release enough funds to cover this fee so that we can clear mess dues," said Prashant D, a second year   student.
 
