CANACONA: Undeterred by the afternoon heat, Madko Velip stands in a deep pit scraping the mud at its base in the hope of drawing water. The pit, at the centre of Velip’s plantations, was a well filled with   before the summer arrived. Today, its waters barely wet his ankles.

 Velip has begun digging deeper taking a cue from his similarly water-scarcity-hit neighbours in the tribal belt of Gaondongorim in Goa’s southernmost Canacona region. The many dependent on horticulture and agriculture for a living in Canacona are desperate to keep their economic source of survival alive through the summer, even as they struggle to meet their own basic water requirement.
 
 Responsible for the drought-like situation in Canacona is the drying up of the taluka’s wells. 
 
 In Aagali in Shristhal, 35 families rely on two wells, as the year round, pipeline water supply never reaches the areas along the climb of the hill. This summer, both these wells barely have a puddle at the base. Two hose pipes each and a motorized pump lie lifeless at the edge of the wells now.
 
 “For two months every year, we are hit by severe water shortage. But we had our wells to rely on, though we had to walk long distances to carry the water to our houses. This year, most of the wells have dried up,” said Velip.
 
 From Chawdi to Cotigao, residents say that water flows from the taps barely once every three days, that too, for not more than two hours, if they are lucky that is. 
 
 But residents of the most interior regions like Cotigao and Gaondongri are worst hit as even public works department (PWD) tankers don’t reach here. PWD tankers are mobbed and drained dry at Char-raste (the crossroad at Gaondongorim) and there is no chance of residents living further into the village of getting any tanker water.
 
 “Only a couple of wells in the village still have water. One of our well-wishers secretly smuggles it to us and that helps us to keep going,” said a store owner, Narayan Naik.
 
 Naik blames the unchecked and excessive usage of water pumps to suck out water for horticulture as the reason for Canacona’s receding water table. And rightly so, any given well has two motorized pumps permanently attached to it.
 
 Blue barrels have become an unmistakable part of the village-scape, six or more of them stationed outside every house, their mouths carefully sealed with tarpaulin and ropes to prevent water theft.
 
 “We ration water at three barrels per week for the family. We don’t know when the next supply of water will arrive,” said a eatery owner at Gaondongri, Narayan Gaonkar.
 
 While the water resources department officials claim that the Chapoli dam, which supplies water to Canacona, has sufficient water, the water at the reservoir appears to have receded visibly.
 
 All through his 50 years living in Canacona, Velip has seen many a harsh Goan summer, but the wait for the monsoon in what is otherwise Goa’s greenest belt has never been this desperate.
 
