BENGALURU: The west division police on Friday recovered another firearm from CAR constable   who was caught with a   on February 23.

 The team led by DCP M N Anuchet seized a carbine machine gun 9 mm STEN, which Purushottam, 45, had allegedly stolen in 2006.
 
 Police commissioner Praveen Sood said the gun was found missing in February 2007 during an audit. In 2007, Purushottam had stolen the 9 mm pistol from his colleague Dahsharatha Rao when they were deployed for Rajbhavan security.
 
 “A departmental inquiry was carried on the missing carbine machine gun and disciplinary action against 11 officials was initiated. Their increment was held for a year,” Sood said.
 
 Purushottam, who was in two-day police custody, spilled the beans on the second weapon during interrogation. “Purushottam confessed to have stolen the weapon from the armoury. We recovered it from a relative’s house in Kattriguppe, south Bengaluru,” he said.
 
 Sood said he will make every effort to repair the damage caused to the officials who faced inquiry.
 
 “Dasharath Rao’s increment was postponed for three years and he had to pay the weapon cost of Rs 20,654 from his salary. We shall see what can be done to these 12 men who suffered for no mistake of theirs,” Sood said.
 
 How the story unfolded
 
 The entire episode unravelled on the night of February 17 when Purushottam Rao pointed his rifle on Anna Malai who was urinating on the compound wall of a temple on Mysuru Road. A scuffle broke out between the duo and Anna Malai attacked Purushottam, snatched his rifle and fled. A case was registered and Purushottam kept mum on the gun theft. Police visited his house and were surprised to trace the 9-mm pistol ,a regular in the armoury of city police, which was stolen a decade ago.
 
 Purushottam referred to Nimhans
 
 Praveen Sood said they have referred Purushottam’s case to doctors at Nimhans. “It’s not normal behaviour where one steals the weapons from his colleagues and hides in home. We need to get feedback on his attitude,” he said.
 
 
