KOLKATA: New speed cameras installed at multiple locations across the city has captured frightening scenes of reckless driving, with the police pointing out that fatality is inevitable in case of a collision.

 Ever since they were activated on Maa Flyover, AJC Bose flyover, Kidderpore Road, BT Road and parts of EM Bypass, the cameras have recorded motorists clocking 130kmph-150kmph, especially past midnight, sending cops in a tizzy. The speed limit set on the stretches is 50kmph-60kmph. 
 
 “The speed at which some have been caught on camera driving is definitely alarming. If a motorists collides with another car or the median divider or the side railings, chances of survival for those inside the vehicle are negligible,” said a senior traffic officer at Lalbazar. While some high-end cars were found clocking 130-pluskmph on Maa and   flyovers, several bikers were found guilty of crossing the limits on the flyovers and Kidderpore Road.
 
 Explaining the way the camera worked, a senior traffic department officer said the devices sent out a highly focused laser beam, aiming a specific point of a car, like its bonnet, headlight or windshield. It was almost impossible to detect and respond to this kind of speed gun fast enough to avoid a speeding ticket, the officer said. “Most drivers are not aware how fast they are driving. So we had installed the speed indicators to show them the readings. But we are alarmed at the speed at which some people are driving. We have already marked the car registration number and sent them notices. Also, we have earmarked the places and are intensifying policing on those stretches, especially at night,” said another officer.
 
 Since February, the Kolkata Police has installed speed cameras with road-side speed indicators at as many as 25 locations to deal with  , stepping on the accelerator throwing caution to the winds. A speed indicator reads a passing car’s speed and shows the figure on a digital board around 8m-10m ahead. A camera measures a car’s speed and records the date, time, location, image of the number plate, direction of travel, speed limit in the area and the lane in which the vehicle is travelling.
 
 TOI had reported when the first such camera was installed on the EM Bypass-bound flank of Maa Flyover. In less than two months, such indicators have been installed on EM Bypass, Kidderpore Road, AJC Bose Road flyover, the Kolkata-end of Vidyasagar Setu and BT Road. “Based on the readings, we have started imposing fines. Along with the readings, we also have the photograph of the car at the exact point of violation,” said Vineet Goyal, additional commissioner (II) of Kolkata Police.
 
 Dangerous driving falls in the ambit of Section 184 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988. Under the provision of the Act, the punishment is decided in court. If proved guilty, a reckless driver could be imprisoned for up to six months or fined up to Rs 1,000 or both.
 
 
