VISAKHAPATNAM: Even though the election notification for the   was issued on Monday, the   is yet to finalise its candidate for the   

 The last date for filing nominations is February 20. 
 
 Though the TDP did not officially relinquish the seat, BJP leaders have been claiming that the ruling party will give the MLC seat to the BJP. 
 
 The North Andhra Graduate Constituency has a total number of 1,54,929 voters, including 89,000 voters in Visakha, 34,000 voters in Vizianagaram and 31,300 in Srikakulam. Elections is to be held in 224 polling stations including 122 in Visakha, 48 in Vizianagaram and 54 in Srikakulam. Of this, 16 polling stations have 1,200 voters each, including 12 in Visakhapatnam. 
 
 YSRCP is not contesting the MLC elections while United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate Aja Sharma of CPM is slated to file his nomination on Tuesday. Congress candidate Yadla Adiraju of Vizianagaram and journalist VV Ramana Murthy are to file their nominations on Wednesday.
 
 BJP Yuvamorcha leader PVN Madhav, who is also the son of veteran BJP leader  , is a strong candidate for the seat. Central ESI board member Cheruvu Ramakotaiah and advocate J Prudhviraj are also in the fray. According to sources, BJP Union minister   is likely to support PVN Madhav's candidature. 
 
 BJP's core committee chaired by Visakha MP and state president Dr K Hari Babu met here on Monday to send the names to the high command. 
 
 The candidate would be finalised at the state core committee meeting consisting of MLAs, MPs and other leaders in Vijayawada on February 15. 
 
 According to sources, around 11 BJP leaders have shown interest in contesting the elections. PVN Madhav, Cheruvu Ramakotaiah, Prudhviraj, Kasiraju of Vizag, Pudi Tirupati Rao of Srikakulam and BJP women wing president Thota Vijayalakshmi are anchoring hopes to be selected, sources said. The candidate will meet 34 MLAs and 5 MPs from North Andhra district as well to get their support after being selected. 
 
 "The party's decision will be final and we will strive to ensure BJP's win in the elections," Cheruvu Ramakotaiah told TOI. 
 
 BJP floor leader in AP Assembly P Vishnu Kumar Raju said his party has very good chances of winning the MLC elections. 
 
 The North Andhra Graduate Constituency has a total number of 1,54,929 voters, including 89,000 voters in Visakha, 34,000 voters in Vizianagaram and 31,300 in Srikakulam
 
 
