MUMBAI: The year began on a victorious note for award-winning lyricist  , known popularly by his pen name  , with a sessions court judge upholding summons by a magistrate on a plea filed by him against a builder and Bandra Pali Hill housing society members.

 Sessions judge J C Jagdale on Saturday dismissed the petition filed by many managing committee members of   cooperative housing society that sought to quash a May 2014 order of a Bandra metropolitan magistrate, who had issued summons against them. Gulzar had moved the Bombay HC with a civil suit in 2013 for sub-division of a large plot in Bandra, as promised by his builder in 1975, to get exclusive rights over his individual bungalow plot in Bandra, and as was done for the other bungalow owner on the plot in 2012. He also filed a private complaint against the developer,  , and chairman, secretary and treasurer of the seven-storeyed housing society on the plot for allegedly cheating him of his rights on the property. His counsel, Nusrat Shah, said the society was depriving Gulzar of his exclusive rights to area and FSI around the bungalow, Boskyana. The magistrate’s order said, “A prima facie case is made out for cheating, criminal breach of trust and dishonest misappropriation of property.’’
 
 But the society committee members had moved the sessions court in a revision application. Their counsel, Vivek Sharma, questioned initiation of criminal proceedings when civil proceedings were pending. Sharma argued that when Gulzar’s allegations were that a developer had given him assurances, society members cannot be accused of criminal misappropriation, as there was no movable property. “How can there be misappropriation of FSI when the society has not applied for plans or use of FSI, which he has alleged,” he said.
 
 The society, argued Shah, was entrusted with sub-division and conveyance of the bungalow plot to Gulzar at no extra cost, which it did only for the other bungalow owner. Gulzar has been fighting for parity for years. There are two bungalows, including Gulzar’s and one building on the larger plot. The society claimed to be absolute owner of the property, and as a society member, Gulzar could not claim sub-division. But in court, orally through their lawyer, it demanded the market rate from him for sub-division. Gulzar said, “The matter requires a thorough police investigation to unearth the fraud.”
 
 
