BENGALURU: The countdown has begun for the launch of  , operationalizing the entire Phase I of   The inspection for issuing   is to begin on Wednesday, even as authorities have invited   to flag off the service. Tenders have been floated for distributing 10,000 laddus, besides providing 5kg dry fruits for VIPs to munch during the function.

 On Monday, Bangalore Metro Railway Corporation (BMRC) officials invited K A Manoharan, commissioner of Metro Rail Safety (CMRS) of south western railway zone, for inspection. 
 
 “I will visit them on Wednesday to get a brief explanation of the track and train testing that’s going on right now. The inspection, which will require three or four days, will start early next week and may be completed by this monthend. I need to check on a number of aspects before issuing the safety certificate. It may take one day or a week,” he told TOI.
 
 With the launch, the 42-km Phase I network of Namma Metro will be fully operational. The network will have 42 stations and the Kempegowda station will be the first underground interchange station. The Green line from Nagasandra in the north will run up to Yelachenahalli, Kanakapura Road, in the south. While the entire East-West corridor between Byappanahalli and Mysuru Road is up and running, only a part of northern corridor between Sampige Road and Nagasandra is operational. The underground stretch from Mantri Square station to KR Market and the elevated corridor from the National College to Puttenahalli through RV Road and Jayanagar will now be open for public use.
 
 Chief minister Siddaramaiah is learnt to have sent an invitation to the President for the event but the date has not been mentioned. “The plan to invite the President has been there for some time as it might give brownie points to the Congress in the state. However, he has not been given a confirmed date because the safety certification is yet to be received,” sources said.
 
 The last launch of the underground stretch between Magadi Road and MG Road too was a costly event with 5,000 laddus ordered for guests. 
 
 BMRC has floated four tenders for food, snacks and beverages for VIPs, guests, staff and security personnel. 
 
 THE LAUNCH MENU
 
 5,000 packets of two laddus each 
 
 5 kg of dry fruits 
 
 3,000 juice tetrapacks 
 
 1,000 plates, each one having a rice item, curd rice and a water bottle; This may go up to 5,000 
 
 Staff refreshments include breakfast and snacks with coffee, tea, green tea, butter milk, accompanied by a water bottle
 
 Breakfast for 250 VIPs and snacks including coffee, green tea and butter milk, and a water bottle each
 
 Source: BMRC
 
 
