HYDERABAD: The delay in announcement of   has denied interested students a chance to seek admissions in the Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society (TSWREIS) and model schools this year. While there is still no clarity on when the results would be declared, the last date for sending application for admissions to these schools is May 31.

 According to the circular issued by the Telangana government, students need to send in online applications by May 29 and May 31 to seek admission into model schools and TSWREIS respectively.
 
 However, with   not releasing the results, the students, especially the ones from financially weak backgrounds are being deprived of an opportunity to get free education.
 
 “The government should have been more careful while issuing a notification as the future of thousands of students is at stake. As the deadline to send in applications end this month, there is no way we can get seats in these institutions,” said Sai Akshitha V, a student who appeared for her class 10 exam from a   school.
 
 Students said they can’t send online application as there is a mandatory field about grade secured in class 10 that has to be filled by students.
 
 “I tried to submit the application without entering the grade secured in class 10, but the application was not accepted,” said Kushal S, another student, adding that the government should not fix the application deadline only keeping the state board results in mind.
 
 Parents are now asking the government to extend the deadline. “Only SSC results have been released till date. Other boards like CBSE and ICSE are yet to declare their results. Keeping this in mind, the government should extend the deadline so that our kids get a chance to apply to these institutes,” said Rakesh D, a parent of a student. 
 
 There are 194 model schools and 118 TSWR institutions which provide free education to economically backward and SC/ST students in the state. These schools are said to be at par with   when it comes to infrastructure and facilities.
 
 
