PUNE: Address of several local ward offices will be changed with administration redrafting their boundaries following introduction of the 4-panel (multi-panel) system in the February civic elections. 

 The civic officials said the redrafting will “not have a huge impact on majority of the population” as they will continue with the same offices. Residents staying in the peripheral areas of every ward, however, would have to visit a new office for their work. A total of 15 ward offices will now be functioning in five zones, with each zone having 3 ward offices.
 
 The civic administration said though the number of ward offices has remained same, some areas have undergone changes. The changes have been introduced in accordance with the multi-panel system. 
 
 The Ghole Road ward office has been renamed Ghole Road-Shivajinagar ward office with inclusion of areas marked under the Wakdewadi-Pune University and Deccan Gymkhana-Model Colony panels. On the other hand, the Tilak Road ward office will be renamed as   ward office with inclusion of three panels — Janata Vasahat-Dattawadi, Vadgaon Dhayri-Vadgaon Budruk and Suncity-Hingne Khurd. 
 
 The civic administration has omitted the Sahakarnagar ward office and replaced it with the Wanowrie-Ramtekdi ward office. Barring these, the limits of the rest of the ward offices have not undergone major changes.
 
 Ward offices play an important role as they offer most services of the civic administration in the residents’ areas. Sources in the administration said the demarcation of boundaries will speed up the ward-level projects proposed by corporators. Four corporators are representing each panel. It is, however, possible that the corporators will spend the funds within their localities, instead of planning to spend it in other areas, the sources said. 
 
 Local corporators in some areas, however, raised strong objections about the redrafting, claiming that it will force residents to travel long distance to visit the ward offices. 
 
 Former mayor Dattatray Dhanakawde has written a letter to his successor, Mukta Tilak, claiming that attaching   area to Kondhwa-Yevlewadi ward office would cause immense problems for the citizens. Dhanakawde said that the new ward office was located 10km from the Balajinagar area.
 
 A senior   leader said the redrafting of some wards was a political move by the   “to ensure its dominance at the ward- level committees”.
 
