GREATER NOIDA: Auwal Nuhu has not stepped out of his first-floor flat in Greater Noida’s Delhi Police Society for over a day. The 24-year-old Nigerian, a student of business administration at Noida International University, has never felt this way, and he can’t believe what is happening around him.

 “I can’t trust anyone anymore,” he says.
 
 He was in Delhi when five Africans were bashed up inside Greater Noida’s Ansal Plaza on Monday evening. And then he came back on Tuesday and has not had the courage to step out.
 
 “Everyone is afraid. No Black in   is stepping out,” he says.
 
 That also explains the time it took him to open the door when we knocked. He opened the door a crack, and leaned his head out, holding on to the door.
 
 When he came to India four years ago, he could barely see. After three surgeries in Nigeria, the doctors there told him to come to India, so that he could get his sight back.
 
 He was nine when he got the Apollo eye disease in Nigeria, an acute haemorrhagic conjunctivitis, that left him sightless. But he came here, and an eyecare centre in Delhi’s Safdarjung gave him hope. He was 20, and he could see again.
 
 Everything seemed to be going well. He moved to Greater Noida, where he shares a three-bedroom flat with three of his cousins. He joined college. He fell in love – with an Indian – and says he might get married, “maybe next year”.
 
 But right now, there are more pressing things to worry about, like food. “We can’t step out. So I asked an Indian friend to help. Like buy some provisions, and I give him money.”
 
 The living room of the flat is bare. On the wall hangs a TV, switched off. Around this, are two bulky single-seater sofas and a three-seater sofa. To the left is the open-plan kitchen, where a plastic chair stands beside a greasy plastic table that has not been wiped for days. On a single cooktop sits an unwashed pan. Nobody has cooked here in a while.
 
 Two of the bedroom doors are closed. You can hear an unfamiliar rock beat from behind a closed door.
 
 Auwal moved into this flat a year back, and now pays a rent of Rs 18,000 a month. But the flat came with its set of rules: no smoking; no drinking; and no calling friends.
 
 But that was perhaps a small price to pay to be here, because there are some 30 Africans living in this society in Greater Noida, and that can be comforting when daily life is a struggle.
 
 Auwal’s cousin, Ahmed, who lives in the same house, says, “We had got used to it. The daily abuse. Sometimes someone would call us Kaalu, or just laugh seeing us walk down a road. But this one is something else. It’s physical now.”
 
 Ahmed came to India a year before Auwal. He first did his Bachelor’s in Computer Science from Noida International University, and is now doing his MCA. He says “maybe” he is 24.
 
 “What we are doing now,” he says, “is hiding out, inside home. We are all afraid here.”
 
 Police have been helpful in this case, acting fast, but when you talk to them, you know very clearly where their sympathies lie. “They are a strange people,” he says in a sweeping generalisation of people from all   countries. “They sleep all day, and party at night. They cut cakes at 11 in the night!”
 
 Small wonder Auwal and Ahmed are so afraid to step out. An hour after we leave their house, in another part of Greater Noida, an African steps out of Alistonia Estate in Pi Sector. It is 3.30 pm, and the man has ordered an Ola cab to get to Delhi. He steps into the cab, and tells the cabbie, “No Greater Noida stopping. Only Delhi stopping.” 
 
 The cabbie scratches his head, and says, “Have to stop. Have to fill CNG.” The African is now angry. You can hear his voice rise, “I said no Greater Noida stopping. No stopping.” The cabbie shrugs. And the African jumps out of the cab and heads back into Alistonia.
 
 Today, stopping in Greater Noida is too big a risk for an African to take.
 
 
