UDUPI:   and the   have come forward to support a  ,   , who was suspended for allegedly beating up Kumar, employed in a   belonging to minister Pramod Madhwaraj. 

 Prakash said he had put together documents to substantiate his claim that a one-sided decision had been taken in this case, with the aim to protect the guilty party, Kumar, who is Madhwaraj's driver.
 
 BJP state executive member and Mangaluru division in-charge Uday Kumar Shetty, former MLA Raghupathi Bhat and ZP president Dinaker Babu condemned the police attitude and objected to minister Pramod Madhwaraj's interference in this case. The BJP organized a huge protest on Monday at the clock tower and a rally to the SP's office, to submit a memorandum demanding that Prakash's suspension order be revoked, and the case investigated by a sincere officer. 
 
  Case of harassment: MLA Bhat told reporters, "The incident happened on April 5, when Prakash and his wife were on their way back from hospital. Two drunk men misbehaved with her, and though the couple ignored them initially, they followed and touched Kumar's wife near her shoulder. When Prakash questioned them, they tried to hit him, so he called a Hoysala and took them to Malpe police station. PSI Damodar came to the station with the recommendation of district minister Madhwaraj. Though the couple wanted to complain, he was not ready to take it and wanted a compromise. Hence, it is he who should be suspended. On Saturday, Kumar registered a complaint at Malpe station that he was assaulted by unknown persons and was admitted in hospital. When the hospital made out a medico-legal case, Kumar mentioned Prakash's name." 
 
  SP K T Balakrishna said Prakash and his wife were harassed by Kumar, and the constable had attacked them, so an internal inquiry had been ordered. "As per the report submitted by sub-inspector Damodar, Prakash was suspended. A case of harassment was also registered at women's police station by Prakash's wife, and investigation is on. It is a regular procedure when we get a medico-legal case," the SP said. 
 
 Faced with charges of protecting his driver, Madhwaraj said neither he nor his wife had any role to play in this case. "When a hospital makes out a medico-legal case, police have to file a complaint. I don't have any problem if the constable is suspended or the order is revoked. I just oppose the way my driver was treated. Now that Prakash's wife has also lodged a complaint, let the investigation go on and if my driver is pro ved wrong, let them take action. I don't oppose it, a counter-complaint is normal." 
 
  Our employees get best hospitals: If Kumar was guilty, the constable should have lodged a complaint and investigated the issue instead of brutally assaulting hi m. I did not pressure the police officials, Madhwaraj said. "We insist on the best hospitals for our employees," he added, when asked why his driver was admitt ed in a top city hospital. 
 
  Raj Mills manager Janardhan G Kotian also released a statement that Kumar had been working as a tractor driver for him for more than 15 years, and has a good character. He was abused, assaulted and admitted to hospital with a crack in the spinal cord. The mill owner Madhwaraj) has not interfered in the issue, Kotian said. 
 
 
