CHENNAI: Having managed to win the trust vote in the assembly, the   government is now faced with a litmus test in the forthcoming local body polls, to be held at a time when the farm sector is completely down.

 Farmers across the state are seething with anger over the state government's “indifference“ to their demands, including waiver of   taken from nationalized banks. Chief minister Palaniswami last week announced the state's plan to convert loans into mid-term, and nothing more.
 
 The state, having faced its worst drought in the century, has witnessed unprecedented deaths of farmers during the current fiscal. Even though all the 32 districts were declared drought-hit following an assessment by the government machinery on a war-footing, the state allocated only '2,247 crore from the   for providing “input subsidy“ to the affected 32 lakh farmers for their crop losses. The ruling AIADMK has not been able to get requisite sanction for drought relief assistance from the Centre till date. 
 
 In its own study, the state found that 80% of the revenue villages are drought-hit. Jayalalithaa, immediately after assuming office as CM in May 2016, had waived crop loans availed by small and medium farmers from primary agricultural cooperative banks. The benefit was not extended to big farmers as well as those who had taken loans from commercial and nationalized banks.“There were lots of expectations after our meeting with the chief minister (O Panneerselvam) in January, but now we are disappointed as none of our demands have been met by the government. Nearly 89 lakh farmers have obtained loans from cooperative and commercial banks, but there is no word on waiver. The government only used flowery language seeking to assuage the ruffled feathers. We are certain that local body polls will reflect the sentiments of our community,“ said Federation of Farmers' Associations president P K Deivasigamani. At least 77 lakh farmers have obtained loans from commercial banks alone.
 
 The failure of two monsoons in succession has left the farmers in the lurch. Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam president K Balakrishnan said, “Even crop insurance payment due for the last fiscal has not been made.“ The state has so far given '3 lakh each to the kin of 17 farmers who died. Palaniswami did not give a convincing reply when he was asked about the total number of farmer deaths during his first media briefing after assuming charge in secretariat.
 
 The state has prevailed upon the Centre to increase the work days under the rural job guarantee scheme   to 150 days from 100 days. But agricultural labourers had to fend for themselves during the last two seasons with no monthly assistance.
 
