PUDUCHERRY: Controversial Calcutta high court judge  , who was sentenced to six months’ jail term for  , was named  . For luck, he changed his name to   in 1991 according to numerology.

 Second son of a school   and homemaker  , Karnan did his primary schooling in an adi dravidar school at Karnantham village, Vridhachalam taluk, Cuddalore district and later at Mangalampet government school before joining PUC at Vridhachalam government arts college. 
 
 He joined BSc Botany at The New College in Chennai and finally studied law in the government law college in the city. He was born on June 12, 1955.
 
 Swaminathan, who served more than 42 years in teaching profession and retired as a headmaster in 1987, accorded top priority for academics and imparted education for all his eight children including three daughters.
 
 Justice Karnan’s elder brother S Manonidhi is a retired employee of NLC India Limited, his brothers, Deivanidhi and Arivudai Nambi, are practising in the Madras high court and Vridhachalam court respectively while another sibling, Thiruvalluvar is a training police inspector in Chennai. His three daughters completed SSLC and settled after marriage.
 
 Arivudai Nambi said his brother Justice Karnan is a tough and strict disciplinarian, who will not hesitate to disconnect all ties with people, including close friends and relatives, if they commit any mistake for the second time. 
 
 “He is almost 15 years senior to me. He is like a father to me. He is a very strict disciplinarian, offering valuable suggestions to people ready to listen to him. Any mistake for the first time will be let off with warning. If people commit the same mistake again, he will disconnect them from his circle,” said Nambi.
 
 Justice Karnan married Saraswathi. His elder son S K Sugan is doing business after completing MBA and younger son S K Kamalnath is pursuing MBA in an institute in France. Advocate A S Chandrasekar from Cuddalore, Nambi’s roommate at Salem law college, said he visited Justice Karnan while he was practising at the Madras high court. “Like his father he was dedicated to his chosen profession. I met him last at his father’s funeral three years ago,” Chandrasekar said.
 
 His father was the former president of Cuddalore, Villupuram teachers’ welfare association and was a recipient of the President’s best teacher award.
 
