THANE: A Nigerian and three men from Navi Mumbai have been convicted by a magistrate's court in Thane for cheating a businessman of Rs. 20.77 lakh in a fraud which is common on social networking sites. Judicial Magistrate First Class, PD Chavan, in her order also directed that the Nigerian be deported soon after he serves the jail term.

 The magistrate in her order sentenced the Nigerian Ujama Monede (24) and Kamothe resident Fazal Ahmed Shrif Sayyed (28) to one year imprisonment and fine of Rs 10,000 each. The two convicts, Toufik Khade (47) from Panvel, and Yogeshkumar Patil (24) from, Nerul were given six months and a fine of Rs 5,000 each.
 
 Prosecutor Jaishree Korde told the court that the accused had cheated businessman Anil Mathur of Rs 20.77 lakh by promising good returns on sale of potjiya seeds, which they claimed were used in the US to cure dreaded diseases like AIDS.
 
 Korde told the court that a Nigerian woman, Koshiya Ko le, who is absconding, had befriended Mathur on Facebook and told him that the seeds were in great demand in India.She also told him that while 400 gm of the seeds would cost him USD 2,5003,000 while the actual cost in the US was USD 5,5006,000. She told him that the difference in the rate could be split between the two of them.
 
 One of the other accused posing as customers met him at a hotel in Mumbai and placed an order for the seeds, promising to buy the medicinal seeds. Subsequently , the other accused also met him, claiming they too wanted to place order for the seeds. Based on orders placed by the four “customers“, Mathur placed orders for the medicinal seeds and also made payments as directed by Koshiya. However, after making the payment, he did not receive the consignments.
 
 The four convicts were traced on the basis of technical evidence thrown up during police investigation. Besides, communication exchanged between Mathur and the convicts helped the police trace them.
 
 The police also said that a manhunt is on for Koshiya.
 
