KRISHNAGIRI/MADURAI: Five people died on Sunday during   in the state.While three spectators died during 'eruthu vidum vizha', a variant of jallikattu, events in Krishnagiri district, two died in separate incidents in Madurai district. Dozens of people were injured in the events.

 At Krishnagiri, two people died after being fatally knocked down by bulls, and another died of suffocation. At Bargur, L Sanmoorthy, 34, of Paichal village near   district, got his leg entwined in a rope tied to a bull and was pulled down.“He suffered a head injury and died on the way to hospital,“ said a police officer.
 
 During the same event at Bargur, a 60-year-old man, who hasn't been identified yet, died after he was knocked down by a bull. He had suffered severe head injuries.
 
 A man died of suffocation at a jallikattu-like event at Rayakottai. He was allegedly drunk and fell down when a crowd rushed to avoid a bull.
 
 In both these events, the organisers did little to adhere to rules. None of these events had mandatory barricades to separate the spectators from the bulls. A teenager taking part in a 'manjuvirattu' event in Sivaganga and a 52-year-old man who was watching a rekla race in Tuticorin were gored to death on Sunday. During the 'manjuvirattu' event at   near Sivaganga town, 18 others sustained injuries too. The deceased youth was identified as Sarathkumar, 19, son of Shanmugam of Vairavanpatti near Tirupattu. He was actively taking part in taming bulls at the event when he was gored by one of them. He was given first aid by the medical team at the spot and referred to  . But he died on the way and doctors pronounced him brought dead. As the event was conducted on Sunday, people from not only Sivaganga but also other districts took part in large numbers.
 
 In the Tuticorin incident, the 52-year-old victim was identified as Anthonysamy, a daily wage labourer from Keelanattarkulam. He had come to Seithunganallur on Sunday morning where rekla race was being conducted after two years. Anthonysamy was watching the bulls after the event when he was gored by one of them which was being detached from a cart.
 
 Police said that after the race got over, the bull owners were in the process of relieving the bulls tied to the carts. Anthonysamy was standing near one of the carts when a bull which was freed from it charged towards him.
 
