Noida: Accepting a long-pending demand of the CNG transport and auto unions, the regional transport authority (RTA), Meerut, has decided to increase the age of commercial vehicles to 15 years and to expand the grace period for getting the permit renewal from six months to nine months in the first attempt.

  Currently, CNG buses can ply for only 12 years, CNG autos only for 10 years while CNG tempos can ply for only seven years. 
 
 According to officials, there are 61,914 commercial vehicles registered in the four districts of Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Hapur and Bulandshahr, which come under the regional transport authority, Meerut .
 
 However, experts have warned that the maintenance of the CNG vehicles, whether privately owned or government-run, is being affected. They have pointed to the recent cases of buses getting burnt and the threat to commuters’ lives.
 
 The grace period for getting a permit renewal of the vehicle for the first time has been increased from six tonine months. However, from the second time onwards, the grace period for getting the permit renewal has been decreased from six months to three.
 
 The permit of only those CNG vehicles will be renewed which undergo a fitness test before applying for the renewal, said sources. “The decision has been taken at an RTA meeting held on Tuesday. A formal notification for it will be issued shortly,” Mayank Jyoti, RTO, Ghaziabad said.
 
 SP Singh, president of Indian Foundation of Transport Research and Training ( ), Delhi said that at present, , the safety regime of the CNG buses is not very robust in Uttar Pradesh and it seems that people are waiting for a big disaster involving CNG buses.
 
 “While states like Haryana and Delhi have stricter compliance of safety rules, UP still has a long way to go when it comes to implementation of safety norms. Most of the time, the private CNG stations issuing fitness for a CNG vehicle merely do a formality by granting fitness on paper. There is hardly any maintenance done on the bus and there are no checks on vehicle’s performance. Most buses do not undergo proper hydro-testing required every three years. With this decision, the government is required to think about the implementation of safety regime on ground too,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, both the Noida Transporters Association and the Noida auto union have welcomed the decision to extent the life-span of CNG vehicles.
 
 On May 4, TOI had reported how over 200 schoolbuses are running without a fitness certificate from the transport department in G B Nagar and Ghaziabad as per the data from the transport department.
 
 
