NEW DELHI: The   leadership has begun preliminary consultations to finalise picks for the posts of President and Vice-President, amid indications that the party is looking at a larger social pool to draw its choices for the constitutional positions. 

 Sources said Prime Minister   discussed the matter with members of the informal ministerial core group, which includes home minister Rajnath Singh, foreign minister  , finance minister Arun Jaitley and road transport minister  . Urban development minister M Venkaiah Naidu was not present. 
 
 Though a formal discussion was not possible because of the absence of BJP chief  , who was in Telangana, there are indications that the attendees favour fielding party nominees for the two important positions.
 
 Sources also said the senior ministers were of the opinion that competence, seniority and party affiliation rather than social background should be the criteria to determine who in the saffron clan should occupy the offices. 
 
 The discussion takes on significance in the light of speculation in political circles that BJP may nominate a Dalit or a tribal for the offices as part of its social outreach. 
 
 Moves for selection of a presidential candidate will gather momentum as the incumbent, Pranab Mukherjee, looks set to retire. 
 
 “I have exactly two months to go. On July 25, a new President assumes office. I am sending back officials who have worked with me, back to their ministries and departments. One has gone to the commerce ministry, two to the ministry of external affairs,” he said at a function on Thursday. 
 
 This seemed to settle speculation that he might be game for the purported efforts to forge a consensus around him. 
 
 BJP had last week turned down the suggestion of opposition parties that it should forego the chance to have its own nominees as President and Vice-President and look for a consensus. 
 
 Opposition parties have also been exploring the possibility of putting up a candidate. 
 
 Non-BJP leaders like Bihar CM Nitish Kumar have said they supported the idea of Mukherjee getting another term. 
 
 The President’s reluctance to take the ring enhances the pressure on the opposition to find a candidate with a stature big enough to turn a battle favouring BJP into a grand ideological contest. 
 
 BJP is just a fraction short of majority in the electoral college, comprising elected members of both Houses of Parliament and state assemblies, for the presidential poll. It is likely to bridge the gap with the support of regional players who are aligned with neither the ruling NDA nor the Congress-led UPA. 
 
 YSR Congress has already declared its support to NDA. 
 
 Although TRS , which was the first among the nonaligned to announce its support for the BJP candidate, has threatened to reconsider its position after Amit Shah's aggressive foray into its turf, BJP managers are hopeful of enlisting the support of AIADMK.
 
