MUMBAI: Around 40% of the parents surveyed by a city school recently reported some symptoms of depression.

 The survey, whose findings were revealed ahead of the World Health Day on Friday, proves that depression, the common mental disorder that roughly affects one in eight Indians, is no longer an unheard-of condition in Indian families.
 
 Children as young as five and parents suffer from the disorder, said experts ahead of the World Health Day on Friday. The theme for World Health Day is 'Depression: Let's Talk'.
 
 While 40% seems like a high figure, experts pointed out that depression could be transitory or chronic; the latter needs urgent attention, counselling and perhaps even medication. While India do esn't have long-term studies on depression among various population groups, the recent National Mental health Survey 2016 conducted by NIMHANS, Bengaluru, said that 20% of those depressed in India are pregnant women and new mothers.
 
 The Mumbai survey was conducted by   in Powai during the Open House held 45 days ago.Seema Sablok, principal of   in Powai, said the school authorities were surprised with the results.“We never thought that around 40% of the parents would have some form of depression,“ she said.
 
 The survey revealed that 0.4% parents had severe depression. Of these, 27.6% showed mild depression, 10.9% moderate depression and another 2.9% moderate to severe depression.
 
 Psychologist  , who analysed and interpreted the survey results for the school, said, “Parents had been counselled about the questionnaire in advance.They were given questions used to screen for depression.Of the 1,145 parents who responded, we found some who were severely depressed and had trouble concentrating on simple tasks such as reading the newspaper or watching television.“ Depression, in its advanced stages, impairs a person's ability to talk cohesively or perform tasks well. Ideally, patients should be picked up before they progress to this stage so that counselling alone can help them.
 
 Meanwhile, the school's counsellers said that the survey was conducted to help understand problems faced by students. “At times, we don't realize why a child is behaving in a certain way or why is he faring poorly in studies. We wanted to understand if the root cause of these problems lay at home,“ they said.
 
 “Helping parents and teachers overcome their stress and depression will surely enhance the `happiness quotient' of the school. This will benefit the children and alleviate stress in the long run,“ added the principal.
 
