COIMBATORE: A Coimbatore-based engineering company has signed an MoU with Jet Pack Aviation of the US to explore the possibility of introducing what it calls a Human Flight Pilot (HFP), a device worn like a backpack, that can propel the wearer through the air.  , which has invested crores of rupees in the project, plans to demonstrate the device in Coimbatore in June or July for the first time in the country. The firm is collaborating with a US-based team to manufacture the product. 

 The HFP can fly at 100 kmph up to a height of 10,000 feet and will help save the lives of people in inaccessible areas and check sea territory, among other uses.
 
 Vijay V Shah, chief executive officer of Vishnu Engineering, told TOI that the company is planning to launch the product at   in Coimbatore district. "We have signed a memorandum of understanding with US-based JPA to manufacture the Human Flight pilot. We plan to set up our manufacturing unit at   in Coimbatore and we want to take our nation to the next level," he said.
 
 Vijay Shah said that due to heavy traffic in many cities ambulances are not able to reach patients to hospitals in time. During peak hours in Coimbatore, ambulances take more than an hour to reach RS Puram from  . A hospital can send a doctor to attend the patient during an emergency using the Human Flight Pilot.
 
 "The 40-kg device has two jet engines. It has a fuel (diesel) capacity of 35 litres. During a rescue operation, the fire service department and the   can also use it to save the lives of people and jawans," he added.
 
 "Already the device has been used by the US army during emergencies. It can take off and land vertically. We are focusing on supplying the devices mainly to the Army, the police department, the fire service department and hospitals," said Vijay.
 
 The firm is planning a crowd   project to launch the device at Sulur tank in June or July. "We have obtained permission from the authorities to fly the device only at a height of 30 feet. We plan to sell tickets for the launching event and expect a crowd of more than 20,000 people," said Vijay Shah.
 
