MYSURU: Days after   to the city was affected due to the lack of water in Kapila (Kabini) River, mainly in the  , a team of the   (MCC), led by the mayor and commissioner, on Wednesday visited the   at Bidaragodu, located on the banks of Kapila River. 

 Mayor M J Ravikumar, along with MCC town planning standing committee chairman Nandish Preetham and other members visited the pumping station and inspected the jackwells.
 
  The MCC had earlier requested chief minister Siddaramaiah to increase the water supply from the Kabini River from the existing 60 MLD to 120 MLD. The first phase of 60 MLD which has been implemented under the Jawarharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JnNURM) is already supplying water to around 50 villages and areas coming under the KR constituency. 
 
  Ravikumar told TOI that the additional pumping machine at Bidaragodu unit which will be taken up in second phase will tap 60 MLD more water from the river. 
 
 "The two pumping machines at Bidaragodu are working fine at present drawing 60 MLD water to the city while the third machine which was kept as a standby, had faced technical problems, and was transported to Kirloskar company at Belagavi district for repair. The machine will be repaired and will be available for use within a week," he said.
 
  The mayor said that the three machines and the additional machines in the second phase will increase the pumping to 120 MLD which will resolve the drinking water problem for areas coming under the MCC. 
 
 "After inspecting Bidaragodu unit, we have requested the authorities of Muda to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) for setting up additional machines at the unit. The authorities have agreed to prepare the plan within 15 days. After getting approval from the government, tenders will be called for additional machines," he said.
 
  Recently, deputy commissioner D Randeep had warned farmers against drawing water from the Kabini River to their agriculture land using pump sets illegally. Stating that the water level at Kabini Dam has come down and supplying drinking water to villages and Mysuru city from Bidaragodu pumping unit has become difficult, a warning was issued that pump sets found drawing water from the river will be seized. 
 
 
