CHANDIGARH: The   syndicate on Sunday allowed the   in MBA (general management) in a new institute of management located in juxtaposition to the  , Sector 10 here. This was decided when the agenda to grant temporary affiliation to the newly proposed institute of management at DAV College was taken up. It was decided that the admissions will be based on the CAT score. 

 Sources said that teachers would be reappointed at the new institute and won’t be transferred, since it would be against the norms. Moreover, the syndicate also approved that the teaching positions in the constituent colleges shall be re-advertised with the provision that those who had applied on the earlier advertisements can update their CVs without payment of accompanying fee. The syndicate consented to accept the recommendation of the regulation committee that age of superannuation of doctors in PU health centre be enhanced from 60 years to 65 years on the lines of the central government norms.
 
 It has asked for soliciting details on retirement benefit charges collected from students since the introduction of this charge. The utilization of this fund to pay retiral benefits to the teachers in the respective colleges has also been asked for.
 
 Moreover, the syndicate has approved the creation of new budget head to receive all general donations and voluntary contributions from all stake holders, PU staff, alumni, students and public at large. Such a fund could be used to create/maintain the facilities/projects for the general welfare of students and research scholars as well as for emergent needs of the university in case of exceptional circumstances. This could also be used for preservation of Panjab University specific biodiversity and heritage. This fund ought to be utilized for emergent purposes and committed liabilities of the university only if it is considered necessary by the syndicate on the recommendation of the VC and on the premise that it shall be replenished as and when committed grants/funds get available. Tax deductions under 80(G) shall be admissible to the donors.
 
 
