DEHRADUN: In the 2014   elections, Uttarakhand recorded the highest percentage of voting by women (62.84%) in India, but it also had among the lowest overall voter turnout, at just 61.6% along with Bihar (56.28%), J & K (49.52%),   (58.35%), and Maharashtra (60.36%). This time around, the state election commission is leaving no stone unturned to ensure the turnout is more robust. Among the tools in its arsenal are snow-cutting machines.
 
  Various factors played a crucial role in low turnout of voters, from lack of awareness, migration to weather conditions. In view of possible snowfall during elections, which might deter voters, the EC has directed all the concerned departments to get on their toes and begin preparations.
  
  For the first time, the PWD has equipped itself with modern equipment to manage bad weather. The national highway unit of the department has purchased two imported snow-cutting machines costing Rs 1.5 crore each and has deployed one on the Chamoli-Rudraprayag border, while the other will be deployed in the   region, which is likely to receive snowfall around election day.
  
  Chief engineer of the unit, Hari Om Sharma, said, “We bought these machines a couple of months ago. Snow-cutting machines will be used for the first time to clear roads for the electorate. Our teams have identified 114 roads which in snow-bound areas, and we have a600-member team to work on immediate relief during inclement weather.”
  
  The PWD has also zeroed in on some areas as “problematic zones”, which might see road networks disrupted in case of snowfall. Earthmovers, lime and salt have been brought up to be used in these areas and teams have been briefs about their duties, officials said.
  
  “Dhanaulti in Tehri, Lokhandi between Chakrata and Tiuni, Radi Top and Mori in Uttarkashi, Salondhar in Pauri, Kalamuni top in Munsiyari, Pithoragarh, which are at high altitude and on difficult terrain, are among the areas we will focus on,” officials added.
  
  These districts are not just meteorologically sensitive areas but also among those areas where the voter turnout was among the lowest both in 2012 assembly elections and 2014 Lok Sabha elections.
