SURAT: The four-day long Swachh Sarvekshan-2017 survey for clean city has kicked off in the   which ranked in the top 20 list of the clean cities in the country. 

 The survey, which is being carried out in 500 cities with more than one lakh population, started in Surat on Friday with a three-member team from the   scrutinizing documents and later visiting four zones of municipal corporation. A three-member team comprising Quality Council of India’s (QCI) chief assessor Ravindra Bharadwaj and two junior assessors - Manoj Maurya and Ashok Kumar - arrived at   (SMC) on Friday. The team members visited Rander, Katargam, Udhna and Limbayat zones for collecting data. 
 
 Official sources said the team members visited areas like Nehrunagar and Fulwadi in Katargam zone, Dhobhi ni Khanchi and Bapunagar in Rander zone, Harijanvaas and Bhedwad slums in Udhna zone, two vegetable markets and four pay and use toilets in Limbayat zone and around four commercial areas in the four zones.
 
 “At these sites, the team checked cleanliness, placement of litter bins, open defecation, public toilets and whether these areas had messages related to Swacch Bharat Mission and Asli Tarakki (true development) campaign,” an official said.
 
 The team will evaluate the city for 2,000 marks on the basis of documentation made available by the SMC, field observation and citizen feedback on cleanliness and various aspects of urban sanitation facilities.
 
 “The SMC has taken great pain to ensure good documentation work, and in creating awareness about keeping the city clean. But, our score could take a hit if citizens give a negative feedback,” an SMC official said.
 
 The team will assess the level of awareness in slums in the old city about the importance of hygiene. The team will also check whether adequate numbers of community/public toilets have been constructed and verify SMC’s claims on open defecation-free status of the city.
 
 The survey at Surat will continue till January 30. On day one, the team members engaged in various assignments given by Delhi QCI. The team led by Bharadwaj also verified the civic body’s documents.
 
 The team along with SMC officials then toured the city and collected data, which were uploaded on an online portal from the spot.
 
