NEW DELHI: The   might not have expected such a response when it urged its students at the start of the 2017 academic session to give their used textbooks to juniors in an initiative meant to save paper and reduce cost of schooling. In just over a month, the Kendriya Vidyalaya students “donated” 2.5 lakh books, spurring the school organisation to think of making the exercise more systematic for all its students.

 At the end of April, the total number of books passed down to juniors stood at 2,58,385. The Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan calculated that with the average weight of one book being around 200 grams, the   books would weigh 51,677 kg. A ton of paper requires 17 trees to be felled. “So under this initiative, around 878 trees have been saved in the month of April alone,” claimed Santosh Kumar Mall, commissioner, KVS.
 
 Speaking about the initiative, Mall said that students promoted to higher classes had been urged to pass on their textbooks to the juniors who required them. He said it was heartening to see such a good response to the initiative. “We saw this as not only being financially helpful to many, but it would also help save paper. We have around 12 lakh students studying in 1,000 Kendriya Vidyalayas,” said Mall.
 
 KVS is planning a more organised way to take forward the initiative from the next session by involving more students. “We want to do this on bigger scale so that more students are benefited and more trees are saved,” said Mall
 
 Students and parents, however, had one concern — would NCERT improve the quality of the textbooks so that they could be used by students over three or four years? A student who accepted some books from a senior said, “If the printing and paper quality of the books are improved further, even I will be able to hand down these books to my juniors. At present, however, I don’t think this textbook can be used for more than two years.”
 
 Students like him recognise the benefits to both the environment and to students from underprivileged families when old books are re-used year after year, as this scheme aims to do.
 
