BENGALURU: A network problem hampered the smooth launch of the income tax department’s e-portal service in the newly set up   on Wednesday. A system upgrade to make computers resistant to attacks by ransomeware   is said to have caused the glitch.

 Nutan Wodeyar, principal chief commissioner of income tax, tried to log on to the portal but the server failed to connect and an error showed up. When attempts by other I-T officials also failed, she moved on to address the gathering. Wodeyar was only able to log on in her third attempt.
 
 Income tax officials attributed it to a network problem as the latest patch of antivirus is being installed to protect systems from attacks. “The exact reason for the glitch still needs to be ascertained. It could be due to the ongoing system upgrade which is being taken up centrally in New Delhi,” said G Manoj Kumar, additional commissioner of income tax (Range 13), who is in-charge of e-portal services.
 
 While many internet users across the country reportedly faced similar issues, the portal of the commercial tax department too is said to have been non-functional for a while. 
 
 Traders in Tumkuru had a tough time when they tried to file value added tax (VAT) returns online. The server failed to connect. “Online tax filing was normal in the rest of Karnataka,” said B T Manohar, taxation committee chairman, Federation of Karnataka Chambers and Commerce and Industries (FKCCI). Traders were even more hassled since May 20 is the last day for filing VAT returns.
 
 They couldn’t even pay tax online. According to the rule, traders have to pay tax online if the amount is more than Rs 10,000. However, when they tried to pay through netbanking, the transaction failed. 
 
 “Traders are liable to be penalized if they don’t file the tax returns before the 20th of every month. For no fault of theirs, they are not able to meet the deadline. The government should give them relaxation at least for this month,” said R G Muralidhar, a chartered accountant and consultant on indirect taxes.
 
 
