With head honchos from Deutsche Bank, Yatra.com, PepsiCo India and KPMG (among others) in the field for the national final, the Turkish Airlines World   Cup Amateur Series doesn’t lack in prestige. And for the tournament’s world finals, the 63 best amateur golfers from around the world – each a national winner – will gather in Antalya, Turkey. Sharad Kohli met up with Ozer Guler — general manager, north and east India, Turkish Airlines — and asked about the carrier’s plans for India. “The tourism industry in Turkey is focusing on India more than ever now,” Guler told TOI.

 How would you assess the popularity of the event?
 
 We started this tournament in 2013 with only 12 events in a year, but this year we are doing it in 100 cities in 63 different countries — as far as I know, it’s the biggest of its kind in the world. And the winner of the world finals will get the opportunity to play in the pro-am of the Turkish Airlines tournament (a European Tour event). In recent years, we’ve had Tiger Woods, Rory McIlroy, Henrik Stenson and Danny Willett play the pro-am.
 
 Turkish Airlines currently flies daily to Delhi and Mumbai – are you looking to introduce new itineraries?
 
 In terms of new routes, we do have plans of growing, though I cannot share those right now. But India has great potential, and the government’s ‘Make in India’ policy gives us a lot of encouragement. Turkish Airlines flies to 296 destinations in 119 countries — we fly to more countries than any other airline in the world. So we want to use this network to bring more people to India. 
 
 What brings Turkey and India together?
 
 What I realise every day is how culturally close we are as people. And whoever I have met going to Turkey, they all say the same thing, that we don’t feel strangers over there. And what Indians feel when they go to Turkey, I feel the same here — nothing feels foreign to me. 
 
 Clearly, there’s lot of synergy between Turkish Airlines, and movies and sport…
 
 Last year we sponsored ‘Batman vs Superman: Dawn of Justice’, and in India we sponsored ‘Shaandaar’, along with VisitBritain – we want to continue our tie-ups with Bollywood in the future. 
 
 And we are very involved with sport. We’re the title sponsor for the EuroLeague basketball, and have had local sponsorships with football teams in France (Olympique de Marseille) and Germany (Borussia Dortmund). Then we had ‘brand faces’ like Didier Drogba and Lionel Messi.
 
 What is the potential for golf tourism in Turkey?
 
 In southern Turkey, and in Antalya specifically, there are golf resorts, which have become famous around the world. We want to show more people what golf in Turkey is all about.
 
 
