Amritsar: Two policemen posted with the traffic wing in Amritsar (rural) were booked under the NDPS Act and suspended from service on Monday after a video went viral in which they were seen taking some tablets, alleged to be drugs, in the vicinity of a gurdwara. A medical examination of the two later confirmed that they were habitual users of heroin, police said.

 The video, TOI has a copy of it, shows a person on motorcycle driving down to where the two cops — later identified as assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Tarlochan Singh and head constable Gurwinder Singh — are sitting in a red car parked under a tree by the roadside.
 
 The person recording asks them what are they doing and then walks close to car. As one of the cops opens the car door and asks him to stop shooting, the man asks the khaki-clad Sikh to show what he is holding in his hands. The man can then be heard shouting at the cops that they should be ashamed of taking drugs near ‘gurughar’. The cops speed away, jumping the car from the road curb. 
 
 The video was circulated in various WhatsApp groups and was finally brought to the notice of Amritsar (rural) SP (headquarters) who ordered an inquiry in the matter. The identity of the man who shot the video has been kept secret by police.
 
 Tarlochan and Gurwinder were sent for a dope test at Swami Vivekanand Drug De-Addition and Treatment Centre — a government facility in Amritsar. The samples collected were further sent to the Amritsar civil hospital for thorough investigation.
 
 Traces of morphine were found in blood samples of both the cops and it was also confirmed that the duo had been taking drugs, including heroin, for a long time. It has also been alleged that the accused cops had thrown away a packet containing heroin near the place where their video was shot.
 
 Jandiala SHO Harjinder Singh, who investigated the incident, said, “Both cops have been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Further action will follow soon.”
 
 
