KOLKATA: Chief minister   is set to meet private school representatives at Nabanna on May 31 to discuss the fee hike debate. This will be the first step towards the consultative process that Mamata promised in March to evolve a consensus on the school fee structure.

 Unlike Gujarat, which has set a ceiling on school fees at primary and secondary levels, Bengal is taking the reverse route of making school authorities a party to the decision-making process. The meeting is likely to be attended by all stakeholders, including owners of schools, heads of Christian associations, who administer minority schools, and even head of principal associations.“We have started to send out invitations to private schools affiliated to ICSE, CBSE, IB and the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education. They are being invited over phone, through emails and in some cases, letters,“ education minister Partha Chatterjee told the state assembly on Thursday .
 
 Confirming an invitation over phone, West Bengal Asso ciation of Christian Schools secretary Moloy D'Costa said, “I have been asked to convey the message to schools, such as Don Bosco, St Xavier's, St Lawrence, Auxilium Convent, Calcutta Boys' and Calcutta Girls' among others. The meeting is slated for 2.30pm,“ D'Costa said. Archbishop and association president Thomas D'Souza and vice-president Asoke Biswas, along with others, will attend the meeting. The school education department is drafting a questionnaire on the private school fee structure. “The CM is likely to discuss parents' concern about spiralling fees, which led to protests recently . She will also discuss the threelanguages policy from Class I, one of which has to be Bengali.One of the other issues bothering the state is the facilities offered by schools, which are often not uniform. The CM may also ask the school authorities for their opinion on the clauses for renewal of NoCs by the state,“ a school education department official said.
 
 Private schools have reportedly welcomed the state initiative of holding a brain-storming session on fees, which usually depended on several parameters, from the infrastructure to teaching quality .Most principals want guardians to understand that private schools have to run the show on their own, while the govern ment pays state-aided school employees. “Private schools are of different categories and their qualities differ. We need to recruit adequate qualified teachers to meet the ideal teacher-student ratio. We have 30 students in each class, while some schools have 45 or more. The facilities also differ. All these involve a huge cost. We want the government to consider all these parameters while determining fees, instead of announcing a strait-jacket formula,“ said Seema Sapru, principal of The  , which offers ICSE and IB curricula.
 
 The schools also want the government to promise zeropolitical interference. “We want transparency in the functioning of our schools and the fee structure. But we expect the state to protect us from political inference. Local politicians have tried to influence admissions, promotion of students and recruitment of teachers,“ said Nabarun De, secretary of Association of ICSC schools in Bengal and Northeast.
 
