PANAJI: Former defence minister Manohar Parrikar, who took over as Goa’s 13th chief minister on Tuesday, said his government would work to preserve Goenkarponn (Goa, Goans and Goan identity) and bring in all-round development of the state.
 
  Governor Mridula Sinha administered the oath of office and secrecy to Parrikar and nine MLAs at a ceremony attended by large number of supporters on the lawns of Raj Bhavan at Dona Paula.
  
  After the swearing-in ceremony, Parrikar said all regional parties have supported BJP for the development of the state and to preserve the Goenkarponner. “It is they who wanted me to run the government and they gave letters of support specifying that they will support the government only if Manohar Parrikar heads it,” the chief minister said.
  
  He said two more ministers from BJP will be sworn in when he expands his cabinet in April. Parrikar also said the state budget will be presented before March 25.
  
  “Congress came today (Tuesday) to meet the governor in a bus. The reason they came in a bus was because they were scared that if people come by car, then one of the cars might disappear on the way. They got all 17 in a bus proving that they have only 17. Mandate is fractured, I agree, but if every fraction comes together, we become 22 MLAs and if you count the vote share of all the parties then it will cross 50%.” he said.
  
  Stressing on stabilty of the government, Parrikar said that “this government will last for 365 days multiplied by five years”.
  
  Asked what the priority of his government was, Parrikar, in a lighter vein, said, “Proving the majority on the floor of the House.” He said focus of the government is development and retaining specialty of Goa.
  
  “Due to Congress infighting, despite having 17 seats, not a single political party offered support to them to form the government in the state,” he said.
  
  Parrikar said Supreme Court has rapped Congress when they approached it to stay the swearing-in ceremony. He also said that “because of Congress misrule between 1989 and 2000, development had come to a standstill in the state”.
  
  Reacting to the Supreme Court directive to provide majority on the floor of the House, Parrikar said, “We can prove the majority on the first day as we have got all 21 MLAs before the governor.”
  
  As per the direction of the Supreme Court, the Goa legislative assembly is likely to be summoned on Thursday for Parrikar to prove his majority on the floor of assembly.
  
  Parrikar said portfolios will be distributed after the floor test and after holding discussions with the ministers.
  
  He also said that common minimum programme would be prepared within one month to run the coalition government.
  
  Parrikar, in line with trademark style, arrived at Raj Bhavan in a simple attire wearing linen white shirt, black pant and black shoes at around 5pm and the swearing-in ceremony started at 5.15pm.
  
  Parrikar had to take oath twice as the first time he did not use the word chief minister while taking oath. It was immediately noticed by Union minister   and additional solicitor general (ASG) of India in Supreme Court Atmaram Nadkarni. Union minister Nitin Gadkari rushed to the stage and asked Parrikar to take oath again.
  
  Others who took oath as ministers are Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar of MGP,   of GFP, deputy chief minister in the outgoing government Francis D’ Souza, MGP MLA Manohar Azgaonkar, independent MLA Rohan Khaunte, BJP MLA  , independent MLA Govind Gaude, GFP MLAs Vinod Palyekar and Jayesh Salgaonkar. Of the nine ministers and the chief minister who were sworn in, six ministers and the chief minister took oath in Konkani, two in Marathi and one in English.
  
  The swearing-in ceremony was also attended by BJP national president Amit Shan. BJP has won 13 seats in the recently concluded assembly election and got support from MGP, GFP and three independents. NCP MLA   was also present at Raj Bhavan.
