SECUNDERABAD: Distressed over the proposed ‘elevated   (corridor)’ between Jubilee Bus Station (JBS) and   (ORR) eating into their properties and livelihood, traders in the   area have dashed off a letter to chief minister   and roads and buildings minister  . They are seeking compensation at par with   in upmarket areas like Jubilee Hills and Banjara Hills and questioning the extent of the proposed road widening.

 The aggrieved traders, who have organized themselves under the aegis of ‘Owners of Commercial Buildings on the Road from Secunderabad to Trimulgherry’, said in the letter: “The entire stretch is commercial belt and the rates of the land as well as buildings in the said area are at par with the highest in the twin cities and equivalent or more than rates in Banjara Hills and Jubilee Hills.”
 
 Pointing out that the project will affect thousands of owners of properties and those employed in these commercial establishments, they said the demolition of their properties will not only result in severe loss and hardship but will also impose a heavy burden of about Rs 700-800 crore on the state exchequer as the land and buildings have to be acquired under the provisions of the Act 30 of 2013.
 
 According to the detailed project report (DPR) for the elevated skyway, the R&B department will need nearly 65 acres of Secunderabad Cantonment and defence land and another 110 acres by acquiring private properties. This means that the government will have to acquire more private properties than government land as the oustees are mainly traders and owners of residential properties.
 
 Questioning the move to widen the road by 200 ft, they said it would be sufficient if the road was widened uniformly up to a width of 100-110 ft. The existing road width varies from 50 ft to 100 ft at different points.
 
 They also pointed out that the government had undertaken road widening of up to only 100 ft even for major projects like the Hyderabad Metro Rail project or the PVNR Elevated Expressway.
 
 The aggrieved traders also met   MP Ch Malla Reddy to seek his intervention in putting forth their case before the state top brass and helping them get adequate compensation.
 
 The project, for which demarcation of properties has almost been completed, is slated to affect nearly 500 private properties, including 400 commercial and 100 residential properties.
 
