NEW DELHI: Halfway across the world, Megha from Solan,  , became a world champion on Tuesday. She raked in the country's first gold medal while competing for Team India at the 2017 Special Olympics   under way in Austria. She bagged the gold in Alpine Skiing (Novice Giant Slalom) clocking a time of 1 min, 3.11 seconds beating her rivals, USA and Uzbekistan.

 For a girl with so many disabilities and in a field where normal athletes have not won any medals, she has done the country proud. Megha was also the torch-bearer at the opening ceremony alongside Ella Sharples from New Zealand representing the Asia-Pacific region. Just before she participated in the finals of her discipline, she repeated to herself: “Let me win. But if I cannot win, let me be brave in the attempt.” 
 
 First spoken by   founder Eunice Kennedy Shriver at the inaugural international Games in Chicago in 1968, the Special Olympics oath has since been uttered by every athlete who has participated in a Special Olympics sport.
 
 Born to a humble home of lineman Pyare Lal and his wife Sarswati, Megha was slow in her responses from birth and in due course her speech and hearing disorder became evident too. In 2004 she joined  . She represented India in Alpine Skiing in Idaho, USA in 2009 and won 3 gold medals. She has also been awarded the `Golden Girl Award'.
 
 Another Indian athlete, Shamsher Singh hauled the first medal for India, a silver, for 'snow shoeing' on the first day of the games. Brought up in a small village near Ropar in Punjab, Shamsher's father is a farmer while his mother is a home maker. His achievement completely challenges his condition of cerebral palsy that he was diagnosed with at birth besides intellectual difficulties. He joined Special Olympics Bharat in 2006. Since then he follows a strict regimen and is totally focused on beating all odds. 
 
 “I salute his spirit. He promised to make the Indian flag fly higher by winning a med al, and he has done so,” said  , his mentor.
 
 Another gold medallist, 15-year-old Shivanjali's world was limited till the age of 12. Since birth it was clear that she had intellectual disabilities. It was in 2014 when her elder sister joined Chetna, a special school, did she find support for Shivanjali. Slowly she transformed. Her mentors made her try other sports discipline. But her final selection of Alpine skiing has proved to be the right choice.
 
 India's special athletes have already raked in a total of 32 medals including 4 gold, 6 silver and 22 bronze. There are 2,600 athletes and more than 1,000 coaches from 105 countries participating in the Special Olympics World Winter Games. India is participating with 89 special sportspersons.
 
