BENGALURU:   beware, the   is contemplating deploying   to   and 3-D map buildings, and verify claims made by property owners during the payment of tax. The BBMP has included this proposal in the smart city planning report of Bengaluru, to be submitted to the Centre.

 The initiative, according to the civic body, will go a long way in improving property tax collection as mapping would help in better assessment of properties and public assets.
 
 “Three dimensional (3-D) mapping will help us form a more realistic documentation of the properties in the city. Clear images will help us check violations that property owners may resort to. We will prepare a detailed project report and call for agencies to help us in surveying the properties using drones. Drones can also get us images from congested areas which are a problem during manual or machine-supported surveys,” an official said. 
 
 The 3-D mapping project of the civic body is the next step after it identified around 19 lakh properties using spatial mapping, which was done in collaboration with the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) to develop a GIS-enabled property tax information system and streamline property tax collection. The BBMP will also allot unique digital identification numbers to properties.
 
 A member of the standing committee on finance and taxation said they have taken up a separate survey of high-value properties like malls and tech parks. “A digital survey report of all malls, tech parks and major industrial hubs will be prepared. This is also to trace property tax defaulters as we have found that many of them have undervalued their property tax in the self-assessment scheme,” he added.
 
 BBMP tax facts
 
 Number of properties before GIS mapping –16,35,584 
 
 Number of properties after GIS mapping – 18,95,107 
 
 BBMP’s target for property tax collection for 2017-18 – Rs 2,600 crore
 
 Property tax collected in 2016-17 – Rs 2,103 crore 
 
 Property tax collected in 2015-16 – Rs 1,932 crore
 
 
