On days when they do not go out, they cook good food together and spend time at home. The domestic clang of pots and pans in the Nayak household, coupled with a four-year-old's ritual shrieks and shouts, echoes an ordinary life. And the family would not have it any other way. 

 For her whole life,   - a transgender woman - has battled to stretch the borders of what is accepted in mainstream society. On this day of love, her marriage to   stands as a testament to her battle.
 
 Both 30-years-old and both challengers of  , Meghna and Basudev are fierce equals whose marriage - on January 26 - stands out as a lingering promise to the city's transgender community. She is an MBA and secretary of the All Odisha Kinnar and Transgender Association. He is a supervisor with a security agency, with a son from a previous marriage. In their everyday lives, the tallness of their union sneaks in, in unexpected ways.
 
 "After our marriage, our association has received two proposals from men wanting to marry a transgender. And they are obviously not doing it for popularity. The transgender community has accepted our marriage and are very happy about it. Our marriage and its widespread acceptance seems to have brought us into the mainstream at last," says Meghna as she waits at the Mahila police station to get a complaint registered in a rape case in the city, in her capacity as a social worker.
 
 With her, are her husband and stepson, Sai, who steals kisses from his mother at every opportunity.
 
 "She loves children and the way she reaches out to them is endearing," says Basudev. Even in surroundings that are less than ideal for a new family to be spending a Sunday in, Basudev cuts a picture of contentment as he watches Meghna do what she is best at - crusading for change.
 
 With a degree of marvel at all that his wife does, Basudev continues, "She does everything around the house. She just does not allow me to do any chores at all. I just go to drop our son to school."
 
 For Meghna, playing mother is a role she cherishes with great joy, but as it must be with every sphere of her life, the subtle gender politics of the responsibility is not lost on her.
 
 "Society thinks that I am a   because I accepted a child who was abandoned by his mother, but the relationship has also given scope to my wish to be a mother, which is something that I biologically cannot become. It is beneficial both for me as well as the child. He gets a mother who is never at risk of neglecting him when her own child is born. We transgenders also have emotions. We have the right to be a mother because we have the feelings of a woman. We transgenders are more accepting of somebody else's child because we cannot become mothers ourselves, even though we want to," Meghna says.
 
 Grim reality has, however, found way to coexist with ritual ribbing and laughter in their life. What was a giant leap for the LGBTQ community started with a small step when Basudev proposed marriage to Meghna and she told him that he must ask her parents first.
 
 "Understanding between a couple and parental support are all that is required to make a marriage successful. Couples should give each other time and sort out issues instead of going for separation at the drop of the hat. When a boy or girl gets into a relationship, it should be in the knowledge of their parents because they know their children well and are the best judges," says Meghna.
 
 Basudev, though, is restrained and the mention of the prospect of their first Valentine's Day gets only a shy smile out of him. It turns out, however, that with red roses on Rose Day, chocolates on Chocolate Day, and a date at a restaurant on Promise Day, Basudev has left no stone unturned to make it a special one for Meghna. "I just wanted to celebrate the week," he said, smiling.
 
 In the middle of the city's din and amidst challenges thrown by years of social ignorance, love, truly, is in the air. Most of all for the four-year-old who seems to have no bones about announcing, "I love my mama more than my papa!"
 
 
