CHENNAI: The last time Madurai Veeran heard from his brother  , he caught just three words, "I'm coming home".

 Four months on, the phone call is among the few leads an eight-member team of police and   from Tamil Nadu have as they head to Maharashtra to trace around 120 teenagers from Dindigul who were tricked into bondage. Prakash is among the seven reported missing by their parents.
 
 Last Monday, the Madurai bench of the Madras high court, based on a petition by Prakash's father Arumugam, directed the CB-CID to constitute a team to trace the boys, all of who hail from Dindigul's Nilakottai taluk. They were taken to Maharashtra four years ago to work in sweets and savouries units there. Prakash, then 15, was sent after an agent paid Arumugam Rs 10,000.
 
 Lured by the prospect of another earning member, families in the state's now arid belts are increasingly pushing their children into a life where there is no turning back. The only link to the family is the stash of money sent every few months and infrequent phone calls. The present drought conditions have only fuelled this racket. 
 
 Arumugam and the other parents realised the extent of torture their children go through when Vijay Kumar, one of the boys who accompanied Prakash, returned home last September. The 19-year-old's left leg was nearly split after his employer had beat him with a metal rod and poured hot oil for adding too much food colour to samosas. Kumar had managed to escape and travelled for three days without ticket to get home. "When I heard Vijay's story, my first instinct was to protect my son," Arumugam, a labourer, told TOI. When he approached the agent, identified as Kasi Mayan, he was told Prakash would be returned only if Kumar went back to work. "A few days later the agent told me Surya had been missing for nearly four months," said Arumugam. 
 
 Anti-trafficking experts say Prakash's story is the tale of many children who go missing. Trapped in terrible conditions for a paltry pay, they are often abused in their workplaces. Besides Dindigul, most of the children rescued from other states belong to Madurai and Theni. 
 
 The police complaints lodged by Arumuguman and six other parents, who had not heard from their children in a long time, unwound similar narratives of several families. 
 
 Based on the complaints, S Annadurai and his team from Dindigul-based non-profit organisation Child Voice undertook a survey of 30 villages in the area two months ago. "We found that 122 children had gone to work in sweet and savoury making shops in Maharashtra," said Annadurai. About 80% of the parents didn't know the whereabouts of their children. "All these children were school dropouts belonging to the  ," he said.
 
 This is not the first time Tamil Nadu is sending a team to other states to bring bonded child labourers back home.  , former Madurai superintendent of police, recalled how his team rescued 42 children from snack-making units in Maharashtra and Odisha in 2011. "We went looking for two children and ended up finding 42 of them working in single room factories. All of them bore some marks of torture, including badly burned limbs," he said. The children were made to work from 6am to 9pm, sometimes without food. "It was a nightmare just imagining their lives there. Being an actual witness to it was a horror," he said. 
 
 In 2016, TN reported the fourth   of children who are trafficked with 317 being rescued.
 
 A CB-CID officer heading to Maharashtra said they were in touch with the police there."They seem to have a few leads. We hope to bring back our children soon," he said.
 
 
