In a patriarchal society where pop culture glorifies male romantic pursuit, the crucial concept of consent is still hazy to many.

 Twenty-four year-old Asha Jha (name changed to protect iden tity) had just joined a BPO two months ago, much against the wishes of her parents. She wanted her own money and independence, and knew she had to work for it.
 
 It was an informal workplace. As the night progressed, jokes flew around, the language was casual. She was fine with all this, but not her boss's intense attention. He often checked her call sheet, listening in on her conversations. She was not sure if the accidental brush of the hand, the pressure on her shoulder as he leaned in, was deliberate. She chose to ignore it. He asked her to dinner and Jha refused. She made her disinterest clear, but the text messages and attention continued. She complained to her seniors, but nothing much came of it. As soon as she could, she sought a transfer.
 
 Why does a woman like Asha Jha not find support and redress when she complains? The law on sexual harassment clearly states that any attention, verbal, physical or even non-verbal, that is “unwelcome'', constitutes harassment. He doesn't have to chase you around the desk Madmen-style or threaten to fire you if you don't sleep with him.It could simply be flirting at the office party, an inappropriate compliment or text message.
 
 And yet, men faced with such allegations frequently say they assumed the woman had consented to the attention and was even enjoying it. In a patriarchal society , where pop culture glorifies male ro mantic pursuit and ignores the woman's choice in the matter, the crucial concept of consent is still hazy to too many people. In many cases, the person forcing their attention on a colleague is in a position of authority over her -which creates a hostile working environment. Sexual harassment, which was once ignored as a human tangle or the private business of people involved, is now rightly recognised as a closing off of opportunities for women. Now, institutions are legally bound to remedy the situation.The   laid down the Vishakha guidelines for working   in 1997, after the gangrape of social worker   in  . In 2013, India enacted the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act.
 
 And yet, even new-economy workplaces struggle to understand the seriousness of the matter -as the recent case of The Viral Fever (TVF) CEO   shows. They do not grasp the fact that when there is a power imbalance, a man's unwanted advances are straight-up predation.
 
 In India, women have had to normalise staring, risque jokes and sexual innuendos, says advocate Devika Singh of Cohere Consultants, who has advised companies in over 400 sexual harassment cases. “We've been taught to compromise, to adjust.It is only when the invita tion to coffee turns out to be an invitation for something else, that some women muster the courage to say no,'' she says.
 
 An Ernst and Young 2015 survey of organisations found that 69% had constituted an internal complaints committee, 18% had not done so and 13% were still in the process of setting them up. The survey indicated that over a quarter of the large companies and half the smaller ones were not compliant with the law, showing their indifference to the issue.
 
 In fact, a frequently heard criticism against the sexual harssment law is that it can be used as a weapon by opportunistic women. The EY report claims that companies noted a spike in harassment complaints after appraisals. Industry sources said that the number of such “fake complaints'' were as high as 60%.
 
 But such accusations effectively malign the woman speaking up for herself. “Bad appraisals could be the proverbial straw that breaks the camel's back. Women might ignore the harassment as long as they feel secure in their jobs, but if their performance is affected, they are moti vated to complain,'' says Singh. Some complain that anonymous blogs, whether the Indian Fowler who took on the TVF head, or the intern who spoke against West Bengal human rights commission chief Justice Ashok Ganguly , level allega tions and sully the name of the accused before giving them a chance to legally challenge the allegations.
 
 But a man's reputation, however lofty , cannot override the rights of women working alongside them. “There has to be a reason for those blogs naming and shaming. I think bloggers are well within their rights to speak their mind and the accused to prove their innocence. Do try lodging an FIR as an ordinary aggrieved citizen, you will realise why people use social media as a way to right wrongs,“ says Sharmila Kher of NGO Sneha.
 
