Mumbai: Despite municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta’s assurance that no official involved in the   will be spared, the second probe report will not recommend action against senior civic officials for dereliction of duty. At least two senior bureaucrats, who are IAS officers, were under the scanner for “failing” to act against malpractices despite getting complaints.

 The first phase of the inquiry, which covered repair work on 34 roads, revealed  . The second phase covered Rs2,000 crore worth repair works on 200 roads. 
 
 Sources say the inquiry committee, headed by additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Deshmukh, will submit the report to Mehta soon. It is likely to suggest action against only junior officials and contractors. A senior official said, “The inquiry has not found any direct evidence against the two senior officials, so it’s unlikely that any action be recommended against them. They can be probed only if court asks for it.”
 
 In June 2016, Mehta had told TOI that the second phase of the report would not spare anyone, including senior officials.
 
 In the first phase, the committee found that contractors had done shoddy work on 34 roads to increase their profit. BMC filed a police complaint, after which a special investigation team was formed under deputy police commissioner Manoj Sharma. The team arrested 25 suspects, including the then chief engineer (road) Ashok Pawar for allegedly helping contractors.
 
 It was expected that the role of Pawar’s seniors would be probed in the second phase. The second report was supposed to be submitted in October, but it got delayed debating over the issue of naming his supervisor. The committee gave the draft report to Mehta twice last year, to to get his approval before submitting it to him formally. However, he sent it back both times saying the role of supervising authority (the two senior officials) should be made clear after specifying role of each official . 
 
 However, the latest report is also silent on the role of Pawar’s senior (the then additional municipal commission SVR Srinivas, an IAS officer). A few IAS officials TOI spoke to, said recommending action against the IAS officer would sent wrong signal to officials and they would, in future, be wary of taking decisions.
 
 A senior civic official said, “The report may recommend action against a few junior civic staff and contractors. It will ensure that money of contractors who did shoddy road repair work be forfeited.”
 
 
