NOIDA: A 45-year-old man, heavily armed with two guns and 46 live   stashed in the pockets of his military-style cargos and a  , surgical blade, knife and iron rod strapped to his legs, went on a shooting and stabbing spree inside his 58-year-old business partner’s house in Noida late on Tuesday.

 Hours before the attack, the two were together in their   Phase-1 office and apparently had an argument over a business deal. 
 
 Rajesh Jolly shot dead   Ajay Khurana’s wife and son but had his guns, both countrymade, not jammed in the middle of his seek and kill mission, Jolly might have wiped out the entire family of nine that lived in Sector 39 bungalow.
 
 Jolly reached the house, in the upscale locality’s E block, around 10 pm, in a TVS Victor bike. Tucked away among his weapons was an inhaler — Jolly had asthma and his preparation for the attack was meticulous.
 
 He parked the bike, quietly walked up to the main entrance and rang the doorbell. The Khuranas’ domestic help, Raju, opened the door and greeted him. Khurana and Jolly had been business partners for nearly 17 years and Raju knew him well. The late visit did not seem odd. But just as Raju was about to usher in, Jolly stabbed him on the hip and strode in.
 
 The next person he came across was Ankush, Khurana’s 32-year-old son who was at the dining table. Jolly put a bullet in Ankush’s head from point-blank range. He next targeted Khurana, who had come rushing out hearing the gunshot. But Jolly missed him and hit Anju, who had followed Khurana out, instead.
 
 Ankush died on the spot, Anju, later, during treatment.
 
 All nine people who lived in the house — including Ankush’s one-year-old daughter and his nine-year-old niece — were home at that time, and the carnage may have been much worse had Jolly’s pistols not malfunctioned. In an adjacent room on the ground floor was Ankush’s wife Kanika and their daughter. On the first floor was Amit, Khurana’s elder son, his wife Asima and their nine-year-old daughter.
 
 Amit had come rushing down the stairs hearing the gunshots. Jolly was focused on Khurana and was caught off guard as Amit lunged at his hand. His gun fell to the floor. When Jolly pulled out the other, it did not fire. Later, police found five used cartridges at the site, indicating Jolly had fired five of the 46 shots he had. 
 
 His guns useless, Jolly slashed at Amit and Khurana with his blade and knife but managed to inflict only minor injuries as the duo fought him. Then, suddenly Jolly rushed up the stairs, found an empty room (Ankush’s) and locked himself in. Amit, who had followed him up, bolted the door from outside.
 
 Police said they had received a call from the house at 10.20 pm. Minutes later, cops managed to enter the house in bulletproof. They found Ankush and Anju collapsed on the floor. Once they secured all the others in the house, they broke into the room where Jolly was holed in.
 
 Jolly was sprawled on the floor, bleeding and unconscious. He had heavy injuries on his head, apparently self-inflicted with one of the sharp-edged weapons he was carrying. He was taken to Kailash hospital, where he is currently on life support.
 
 Jolly lives in Aashiana apartments (Mayur Vihar Phase-1 extension) with his wife (40), mother (75) and 12-year-old son. Police said he and Khurana ran a property business in Mayur Vihar Phase-1 and had been partners were 17 years.
 
  
  
 
 
 Police said the initial investigation suggested Khurana and Jolly had given loan to a Delhi-based woman and taken on mortgage her property in Dehradun. The documents of the property were with Khurana and Jolly allegedly wanted them.
 
 Amit told police the families had known each other for the past couple of decades. “We did not expect such an attack from him,” a police officer quoted Amit as saying.
 
  
  
 
 The investigation is being handled by Gautam Budh Nagar SSP Dharmendra Singh, SP (city) Dinesh Yadav and circle officer Gaurav Grover visited the spot for investigation. IG (Meerut) Ajay Anand also visited the crime scene. Jolly has been booked for murder in a case filed at Sector 39 police station. “We will question the accused once he regains consciousness,” said Yadav.
 
 V B Joshi, spokesperson for Kailash Hospital, said Ankush was brought dead. “Anju Khurana had also received bullet injuries and she died while undergoing treatment. Ajay Khurana had some cuts and bruises but no bullet injuries. He was discharged on request to take part in the cremation process of the deceased.” The servant, Raju, is being stabilised and will need a surgery. 
 
 
