  : It's been around two months since   felled a tree that was blocking the entrance to the newly constructed  . But the concrete base of the tree remains intact. 

 The base has been congesting traffic movement, apart from posing the risk of accidents. The forest department gave a clearance for felling the tree two years after the bridge was thrown open.
 
 It's a classic case of government departments passing the buck.
 
 During construction of the 170-metre-long bridge, the forest department did not accord clearance for chopping the tree located on the right side of its entrance. So GDA built a concrete roundabout around the tree and went ahead with the construction work. In March 2015, GDA threw open the bridge to commuters with the tree and its concrete base blocking nearly half of the 7.5-metre-wide entrance.
 
 Clearance for chopping the tree was accorded to GDA in January 2017, nearly two years after the bridge was opened for traffic. GDA paid the forest department for planting 10 trees in lieu of the one to be felled in keeping with the terms and conditions of the clearance. "The amount of money was transferred to the forest department two months ago. The cost of felling the tree was also included in this amount. However, the forest department did not uproot the tree completely, leaving the stump behind. We can remove the concrete base only after the stump is removed completely," GDA executive engineer   told TOI.
 
 At present, vehicles have to squeeze through the entrance as despite it having two lanes, one lane is almost completely blocked. When contacted, forest department officials said they were not uprooting the stump for fear that it may damage the bridge.
 
 "Our workers are not fiddling with the base of the tree because it may affect the bridge's structure. GDA has several pieces of state-of-the-art construction equipment, with which they can uproot the stump. They could have done the job. We have talked to GDA officials," said Ghaziabad divisional forest officer V P Singh.
 
 "High-end equipment will soon be used for the construction of the   T-point grade separator nearby, and the stump will be removed with these machines," he added.
 
