PUNE: The   in the   are set to switch to the top gear with extra funds for infrastructure projects.

 The   would help bridge the development gap between the cities (Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad) and   areas under the Pune Metropolitan Development Authority (PMRDA). The thrust on housing and transportation would directly help the twin civic bodies speed up the ongoing and future projects, said PMRDA head Mahesh Zagade.
 
 He said the infrastructure boost would improve the quality of life in the region and could push up the liveability index.
 
 The PMRDA aims to maintain the Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) in the region at 18-20%. The CAGR is not the actual return but an imaginary number describing the rate at which an investment would have grown at a steady rate.
 
 Urban experts have been cautioning that merging villages and towns in city limits would not help in achieving planned urbanization because majority of the fringe areas included in the civic limits were struggling to cope with urbanization, defeating the purpose of merger. World over, experts are insisting on decentralized model of urbanization.
 
 “With funds flowing for infrastructure development, including transport and housing, the people can hope for major economic and development activities in the rural parts of PMRDA. These areas will catch up with urban areas,” said Zagade, adding that infrastructure development in the entire Pune metropolitan region would help in sustained growth of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad.
 
 Pune municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar said the new metro policy in the offing and housing for urban poor would help the city execute its development plan with speed. “Housing is a major infrastructure subject in Pune and the metro policy aimed at generating employment will energize economic activity in the city,” said Kumar.
 
 The development plan for the old Pune city pegs transport related expenditure to Rs10,413 crore, while the civic body estimates additional housings stock of around 6.58 lakh by 2027. With the central government infrastructure schemes boosting transport and housing with funds allocation, the PMC can use its funds for other development purposes.
 
 Urban planner Aneeta Gokhale-Benninger said the allocation for infrastructure development was nothing but a “waste” of public money. “The total allocation for infrastructure development looks large. But we have to consider the population and per capita allocation of funds, and then you get the real picture. The budget must be built bottom up so that the government is aware of ground realities. For projects like road development, we have to check norms and then go ahead with the execution,” she said.
 
 
