NASHIK: The state government has decided that the number of doctors and nursing staff in all government hospitals-cum-medical colleges would be decided on the basis of beds in the hospitals. 

 The move would help fix the perennial problem of manpower crunch at government hospitals. The rise in the manpower at the government hospitals-cum-colleges would help raise the intake of students for graduate and post-graduation medical courses. Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis took this decision on Monday evening after a meeting with the authorities concerned.
 
 At present, the professors and staff at the medical college also work at the hospitals attached to the education institutes. The number of doctors and staff is decided according to the intake capacity of the   decided by the   (MCI). As per the MCI’s minimum standard requirement for medical colleges, the ideal ratio of hospital beds to number of students is 500:100. 
 
 State medical education minister  , who is also pro-chancellor of Nashik-based Maharashtra   (MUHS), said that most of the government medical colleges in the state have more beds than this ratio.
 
 “According to MCI, 200 MBBS seats should be allotted for every 1,000 beds in government hospital. However, in Maharashtra, many government colleges have more beds and less students. This puts them under the burden of managing more patients. To handle this burden, the government has decided to appoint doctors as per number of beds in government hospital,” said Mahajan, adding that the CM has issued directives to form an action committee to chalk out the details. 
 
 The action committee has been given three months to study the situation in government medical colleges and submit their action plan, Mahajan added.
 
 At present, the government hospitals in the state have more than 2,778 additional beds. The existing number of doctors and staff has to serve these additional patients every day. If implemented properly, these colleges could get the additional staff by next year. As a consequence, about 600 seats for MBBS and PG courses will be added to the government medical colleges.
 
 The directorate of medical education and research (DMER) decides the number of professors or lecturers in medical colleges as per the intake capacity of the respective colleges and   
 
 Many government colleges have added the number of beds and other infrastructure over the years, but their intake capacity has not been reviewed. Due to this, many colleges have higher number of beds and less intake capacity in Maharashtra. 
 
 
