Popular VJ turned actor   is all set for the fourteenth season of MTV Roadies and he is thrilled to be a part of it.

 The most widely anticipated season of India's longest running youth reality show 'MTV  ' is returning on February 25 and it promises to be the deadliest one ever. The panel will see the adventure squad-veteran Roadie, Rannvijay Singha, Bollywood’s lethal combination of beauty with brains,  , the winning gang leader from the last season, reality show king,   and popular VJ and DJ Nikhil Chinappa.
 
 Adding a layer of mystery and excitement, ace Indian off-spinner,  , will also be seen on the showing bringing some intriguing twists and turns for both – the contestants and the gang leaders.
 
 As the judges gear up for it, in an exclusive conversation with TimesOfIndia.com, Rannvijay Singha speaks about his Roadies journey, his rapport with the judges and his newborn baby girl. 
 
 Here are the excerpts:
 
 
 
 
 A: From being a contestant to hosting the show to now judging and being a mentor, the journey has been exceptional. It is a different experience every year. From Brazil to Thailand, to different contestants every year and different judges, it has been a roller coaster fun ride - be it geographically or culturally. My job in Roadies has also changed. Everyone who connects with Roadies, becomes like a family member after that. It is tough to let go of people you travel and spend so much of time with. I have totally embraced the show. There is no question of it getting monotonous. If it would have been a show where I had to go to a set and sit on one chair and judge people, it would have been boring but with so much travel and meeting new people, it is an experience all together.
 
 
 
 
 A: This time Roadies is going to be the deadliest ever. We will be traveling to different battlegrounds of our country - Jhansi, Gwalior, Kurukshetra and get the same sentiments as that of the warriors at that time. This season we are not going abroad nor will it be a vacation. It will be hard core.
 
 
 
 
 A: Oh, I share an amazing rapport with everybody. When I am mentoring in Roadies, I feel a sense of responsibility towards the contestants. I become attached to them and feel protective them. I know Prince Narula for a long time now. He's part of the family. Karan is a close friend and I will surely miss him this time. We ride bikes together, party together and travel together. His commitments made him skip this season but he will be missed. With Neha, I share an amazing rapport, too, also because we are from the same school. She's totally chilled out. We play frisbee together, share snacks and love talking about things. For her I am her 'saheli'. I have known Nikhil for a long time now. We are old friends and I am overwhelmed to have him on this season of Roadies. Harbhajan and I know each other through Yuvraj Singh and have a lot of things in common. We both are from Jalandhar, have Punjabi wives and were blessed with beautiful daughters recently. 
 
  
  
 
 A: I have been attached with Roadies for the longest time now and all these people calling the show rigged have failed badly. With new guys, new judges every year, this can't be acting right?
 
 
 
 
 A: Well, nothing is justified. Even hugging a contestant during the auditions or episode is not justified. Whenever an event happens, you are meant to react and this is what reality shows are. I don't know what was in Karan's head at that time and some kind of chemical reaction happened but he had his reasons. Till the time you get the right message, it is fine. Natural reactions come naturally to people. 
 
 
 
 A: When I was 23, I got 2-3 fiction shows. That time I decided to do Pukaar because it suited me. I love doing action. People know the kind of a guy I am. I recently saw 'P.O.W' and could absolutely relate to it. I would love to do a show like that. Be it a web series or a TV show, now I have reached a point when I will do things that make me happy. 
 
 
 
 
 A: It is the best feeling in the world. No feeling can beat it. And we have named her 'Kainaat' as she is our universe.
 
 
  
  
 
