GHAZIABAD: Fifteen days after taking over the   investigation, the   has not made any headway in the probe.

 The crime branch has neither been able to trace impostor driver   nor been able to trace his location at the time of the accident. “We had placed an application to go to Bareilly to investigate the case and just got the green light from the SSP on Tuesday and in a couple of days we will be travelling to Bareilly” an officer at the crime branch said.
 
 When asked about the progress made so far in the investigation he said, “We will track the location of Syed Imtiyaz Qadri, Dr Manish Rawat and Ishaq Ahmed on the day of the accident to ascertain the claims made so far.”
 
 Dismissing reports in a section of the media published on Tuesday in which it was claimed that Qadri was in Bareilly on the day of accident, the officer said, “Certain media reports, quoting ‘investigators’, have claimed that Qadri’s call records data and phone location show he was in Bareilly till around 9pm on January 27 are not true as we are yet to track the phones.” He said, “But we have placed a request with the cellular operator companies to give locations of Qadri, Rawat and Ahmed and hope to get the details by March 5.”
 
 On the intervening night of January 27 and 28, an Audi rammed into an auto killing all four occupants of a three-wheeler, identified as techie Rinky Yadav, Vishal Singh, Yajuvender Singh and auto driver Sanjiv. A case of causing   was registered against the ‘driver’ though the Audi was registered in the name of Manish Rawat, a neurosurgeon who went into ‘hiding’ and appeared nine days after the accident. On January 31, a man identified as Ishaq Ahmed of Labera village in Bareilly appeared before Ghaziabad CJM court claiming he was driving the car on January 27 and filed a surrender plea. He was granted bail but on February 4 a TOI investigation revealed truck driver Ishaq Ahmed of Labera, against whose document the bail was secured, was in Gujarat on the day of the accident. 
 
