NAGPUR: A large number of liquor shops and bars in the district closed down on Saturday following the   order banning such establishments within 500 metres of national and state highways. This has raised question marks over livelihood of hundreds of owners and their employees. The owners are a resigned lot and hoping that the cash-strapped state government comes up with a solution as its revenue is also at stake.

 A source in excise department said that there were 328 wine and country liquor shops and 543 bars that come within 500 metres of national and state highways. 
 
 Several star hotels including Hotel Radisson Blu, Hotel Le Meridien, Hotel Centre Point, Hotel Pride, etc will have to stop serving liquor as they fall within the 500 metre area norm. Maharajbagh Club, which lies on Amravati Road, too has closed down its bar.
 
 “In Nagpur district there are 115 wine shops (FL-2), 102 beer shops (FLBR-2) and 289 country liquor shops (CL-3). Among these 63 wine shops, 67 beer shops and 198 country liquor shops have closed down. There are 680 bars of which 543 are in the 500 metre area and hence they too will be out of business,” he added.
 
 Swati Kakde, divisional deputy commissioner (state excise), told TOI, “We started sealing the wine shops and bars from zero hours of April 1. We sealed the store rooms of bars where liquor was kept. There is no restriction on serving food in such outlets.” 
 
 While the department is closing down the shops in the red zone, it is permitting the excise license holder to shift them elsewhere without charging transfer fee. However, the new location should meet all requirements. The shop should be 50 metre away from educational institutions and religious places in urban areas and 100 metres away in rural areas. There are restrictions around bus stands and depots too. Wine shops should be 50 metre, country liquor shops 100 metre and bars should be 75 metre away.
 
 The affected bar and liquor shop owners had held a meeting on Saturday evening but it ended without any decision. “We have decided to adopt a wait and watch policy. It is not easy to shift our establisment outside the red zone. The government should do something to save the livelihoods of thousands of people. The government will also have to think about its revenue,” said Pratap Dewani, an affected bar owner.
 
 Manoj Bali, manager of Hotel Radisson Blu, said that the decision was uncalled for and against the interests of tourism sector. Micky Arora, owner of Hotel Centre Point, said that the decision was impractical and should be at least not implemented within city limits. 
 
 Municipal councils of Yavatmal, Jalgaon and some other towns in the state have proposed to the government to handover the highways passing through the city limits to the municipal council. The status of these roads will change obviating the need for relocating the bars and liquor shops. Sandip Joshi, ruling party leader in   ( ), said that the city’s civic agency did not propose a similar step as of now.
 
 BOX
 
 State to suffer Rs 7k cr loss 
 
 Meanwhile, state excise minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule told the media that the government would suffer a loss of Rs 7,000 crore due to closure of liquor shops and bars in the affected zone. “In spite of this we will follow SC order. We will find some other source of revenue to compensate for the loss,” he said.
 
 According to the minister there are 25,513 liquor shops and bars in the state of which 15,699 will be affected by the ban. He also said that the permits of such establishments within the affected area, which had not been renewed by December 2016, will be cancelled.
 
