NEW DELHI: Even as controversy over freedom of expression and nationalism spiraled, union minister of state for home   tweeted a video of an   who is heard criticising people taking sides of terrorists like  , or   or even burning national flag.

 The jawan can be seen saying that true enemies are those who shout slogans of "Bharat Murdabad" and "Afzal, Hum sharminda hain, tere kaatil zinda hain (Afzal, we are ashamed that your killers were still alive). The Jawan, identified as Sriram Gorde, says that it felt bad when the students of JNU were mourning Guru's death.
 
 
  
 Gorde, in his video, slams students who sympathised with 2001 Parliament attack convict Afzal Guru and also those who criticised Indian army's September 29 surgical strike.
 
 "We fight against terrorism, Maoists to keep our country safe. But now it looks like the biggest threat is from those who live in this country but give slogans of Bharat murdabad," Gorde says in the video.
 
 While posting his video, Rijiju tweeted, "Pain runs deeper than the Ocean. Very sad that our jawans are forced to speak with heavy heart".
 
 Referring to JNU protest last year, Gorde says "We don’t feel sad to see Afzal Guru being hanged. But we are sad to see people chant slogans that Afzal hum sharminda hai, tere qatil zinda hai". He adds, "We feel sad when thousands of people come out in support of such people (Guru sympathizers). I feel sad when thousands of people join the funeral procession of a terrorist".
 
 Gorde told TOI that he joined Indian army 13 years back and has served on the front for 10 years including in Uri sector few years back. One of the camps in Uri sector was attacked by terrorists on September 18, 2016.
 
 "I and many like me have been fighting in army for so many years. We fight with army everyday and then when our people support the terrorists or naxals, it hurts", he told TOI.
 
 He is posted in 9th battalion of Maratha Infantry at Jamnagar as Sepoy. His video was shot on December 28, 2016 when he was speaking at Rashtriya Katha Shivir near Rajkot, Gujarat.
 
 
