HYDERABAD: He's had nearly 12 surgeries and carries some chronic injuries. Pace, he generates naturally from his action. At 38,   is not getting any younger, but the   are not complaining. He was one of their go-to men during their title run till he broke down with an injury , but in the eight matches he played last season, he proved that age is just a number.

 It doesn't get easy at his age too.To reach normal fitness levels, he trains for nearly five hours daily .What's an off day for others is not for him, because he still needs a pool session or an ice bath or a rub-down to keep fit ­ an average of one or two hours extra compared to other bowlers. But he's happy to do that.
 
 He's also happy also to lead the attack in the opener against Royal Challengers Bangalore on Wednesday , the inaugural match of IPL X, without Mustafizur Rahman for company . And he's unfazed. “We are the defending champions. More than pressure, it is the responsibility that we would like to do it again.Our first goal is to reach last four.Even when Mustafizur was there, other bowlers also had the responsibility . We have back up bowlers in Barinder Sran, Mohammad Siraj and Afghanistan leg-spinner (Rashid Khan) will be our x-factor. If he (Fizz) comes, good, but we can't look at one player who is missing. When the main player is missing or is not in form, other people take over.'' Nehra was happy that Bhuvneshwar Kumar has proved many people wrong with his ability at the death.“Bhuvi has come a long way . Many people feel that Bhuvi is a new-ball bowler, but he's showed everybody what he can do.
 
 “He is a great asset not only to the Sunrisers but also to any team. Whenever he has played IPL, he has done well. It is a good thing that more and more bowlers can bowl upfront and in the death.“
 
 The left-arm seamer is of the firm belief that bowlers win matches and doesn't mind leaking a few as long as he gets the wickets. “Whenever I play for India or for the Sunrisers, either ODI or T20 format, I always look to pick wickets. It is very difficult to stop players like Chris Gayle, AB de Villiers or Virat from scoring. So I always look to get people out. I don't look to bowl to him where he can't score. I will rather look to bowl in areas where I can get him out. So you should be always positive as a bowler and look to take wickets.
 
 “In the bargain, you might give four-five extra runs, one or two extra shots. Bhuvi is similar. He always looks to pick wickets. That has been key for the Sunrisers last year. Whenever we bowled five or six overs together, we always looked to take one or two crucial wickets.“
 
 Nehra was also pleased that his ilk are getting due recognition and commanding a price similar to batsmen in the auction. “I now feel bowlers are also getting big money . Earlier the trend was to look for batsmen.Bowlers got half the price of batsmen in the beginning. That difference has now come down 10-15%. Look at Tymal Mills and Ben Stokes. In Tests, even if you score 1000 runs you won't win unless your bowlers pick up 20 wickets. Now bowlers are getting more value. “All the teams have worked hard and are taking bowlers. Look at Delhi. They have Pat Cummins, Rabada, Shami and others. There are so many good bowlers who can't play for their country . But they are still good enough for IPL, CPL or the Big Bash League. Like Ben Cutting in our team. He doesn't play for Australia but see what he has done for SRH or in BBL. Only 15 can play for the country, but there are many talented players who are good enough to play .“
 
 
