THRISSUR: A five-member family was found dead at their house at   district late last night. The police said as per initial reports the husband appeared to have committed suicide after murdering his wife and three children by slitting their throats with knife.
 
 The deceased have been identified as Mathanangadi Mullanamkuzhiyil Johny Joseph (49), his wife Soma (34), two sons Anson (11) and Ashley (9), and daughter Aan Mary (7). While Anson was studying at the school at the Sree Ramakrishna School at Puranattukara Ashley and Aan May were studying at the St Mary’s School, Puttekkara. Johny originally hails from Kozhikode, while Mary hailed from   near Kechery. Johny was running a soft drink shop at Kechery. Johny’s aged mother-in law was staying with them, but he sent her to her house on Thursday evening saying they wanted to go to his house at Kozhikode.
  
 Police suspect financial crisis seems to be the motive behind Johny committing this extreme act.
  
 However, the police have not recovered any suicide not from the house till this morning. It is also not clear when the death had actually taken place, and forensic experts are at the site to get more details, according to intelligence Dy SP Raveendran.
  
 Raveendran said two empty bottles of poison were found in the room, and it appeared the family had first consumed poison. Johny might have cut the throats of the remaining members when they fell unconscious after consuming poison. There was no sign of use of force in the rooms where their bodies were found.
  
 While the bodies of mother and daughter were found in one room, the other two sons were found dead in another room. Johny was found dead in a sitting posture. 
 The outside world came to know when Jose, the business partner of Johny, went to the house of the latter late last night. Jose went to the house as Johny’s phone was not responding throughout the day and after realising that the shop was not opened.
  
 Jose became suspicious when he found the front door locked from inside, and some blood stains on the door. He called the neighbours and entered the house through the backdoor which was found open. They were shocked to see the bodies with blood stains in different parts of the house.
  
 Johny was into real estate business and was also running a private finance firm earlier. He had suffered setbacks in both these business. He had reportedly borrowed about Rs 15 lakhs from a chitty firm, and another Rs 10 lakhs from individuals.
  
 
