HYDERABAD: In tune with the agreement signed by the   with the Centre on joining the   ( ) scheme, the state government has sanctioned Rs 6,990 crore to   as additional funds towards equity in Discoms. 

 Another tranche of nearly Rs 2,000 crore is expected to be released in the next 10 days. As per the  , the state government has to take over 75 per cent of the debts of the two power distribution companies as on Septeber 30, 2015.
 
 Officials said the two discoms in the state are having a long term debt of Rs 1,1897 crore (TSSPDCL- Rs 7,392 crores and TSNPDCL - Rs 4,505 crore) as on September 30, 2015 and under the Uday Scheme, the state government has taken over 75 per cent of the Discoms debt amounting to Rs 8,923 crore.
 
 "The balance loan amount of Rs 2,974 crore is being restructured by the discoms by issuing bonds with a Government Guarantee. As a result of taking over the loan by the state government, there is a relief of interest burden of Rs 890 crore per annum to the two Discoms and consumers at large," a senior official said.
 
 Discoms will be able to raise funds with competitive rates from the financial institutions towards capital expenditures. The Government of Telangana is already providing a subsidy of over Rs 4000 crore to the Discoms towards free power being given for nine hours to the agriculture sector.
 
 It may be mentioned that the installed capacity of the state was 5863 MW as on June 2014 and there was huge power shortage in Telangana with power-holiday for industries, 8 hours to 10-hours power cut in rural areas and four-hours power cut in capital city itself.
 
 To overcome the power shortage and ensure 24x7 uninterrupted power supply, Discoms raised loans and purchased power at higher cost from private power producers, resulting in the debt burden increasing on the power utilities.
 
 Though the TRS government has initiated short, medium and long term measures to overcome the power problem, it will take at least two years for pending power projects to be completed that would take total installed capacity of the state to about 27187 MW by 2019, making Telangana self sufficient on power sector front.
 
 The central government came out with the Uday scheme to bail out Discoms from the financial mess as such bodies in every state was neck deep in debts due to purchase of power by raising loans. However, the financial support or reimbursement from the government was not even 25 per cent of the debts of the Discoms. The Centre has offered a slew of benefits to the states joining UAY scheme.
 
 
