CHENNAI: When behind the wheels, speed came naturally to  . There wasn't any reckless streak in the way Ashwin handled it, he was just a pro, doing it on various tracks across India even before he turned 18.

 The baby-faced champion started off as a biker making a mark in the 2005 racing championship. But he stunned everyone next year bagging his maiden national title in 115cc 4-stroke and 150cc 4-stroke class for TVS Racing. The racer made his overseas debut the same year and became first runner-up in FIM Asia Road racing championship in Underbone class (U-21). But there was always the love for cars and even when he was winning medals on the bike, Ashwin harboured hopes of making it big in formula car racing.
 
 "Ashwin was a very talented driver, who tried his hand in everything. He was a born racer and was equally at ease with karting, bike racing and formula cars. It's a huge loss for the racing fraternity and it would be impossible to get another versatile racer like Ashwin," Sanjay Sharma, JK motorsports head, told TOI.
 
 "I always enjoy driving cars but bike is my passion. When it comes to competition, I'm good at both and confident of winning more titles," Ashwin once told this correspondent, while driving his first car -an orange Maruti Swift -way back in 2007. After making the transition to car racing, Ashwin finished second runner up in Formula LGB Hyundai and Formula LGB categories in Indian Championship in 2006 and went on to win the maiden national title in in Formula LGB Hyundai and Formula LGB Swift categories next year. Though, it was a bit of a roller-coaster ride for him for about a year, the Chennai racer bounced back in style to win the national championship in   (1600cc) category in 2009.
 
 
  
 
 His talent was recognized by the motorsports experts at an early stage and it was a given that the Chennai boy would go on to rule the track. "I have known Ashwin since he was kid and have seen how rose to the top. He was an exceptional talent,"  , former FMSCI president and father of former Formula One driver Karun, said.
 
 Ashwin represented various teams like NK Racing, Rams Racing, MRF Racing and TVS Racing at the national-level championships. He was even groomed by former F1 driver   during his days with NK Racing. 
 
 
 
 
 Former national car racing champion Ashwin Sundar, 31, and his doctor wife Nivedhitha, 26, were charred to death after their BMW rammed a tree and burst into flames on   in Chennai in the early hours of Saturday. The vehicle got trapped between the tree and a wall of a house. Onlookers, some of whom even live-streamed the event, were unable to help the couple because of intense flames.
 
 Witnesses later told police that the luxury car hit a road bump at high speed, before spinning out of control and slamming into the tree. The flames rose more than 10 feet and Ashwin and his wife were not able to prise open the doors of the twin-seater car. Ashwin may have been driving very fast and may not have noticed the speed breaker, police said. Sources said the low slung engine had been modified by Ashwin according to his requirement. Information about the accident showed that the air bags were not released, a BMW expert said.
 
 " Air bags will release only if the occupants fasten seat belts. The modifications in the engine may also have led to the accident. We never advise customers to do modifications," he said.
 
 A team from the Adyar traffic investigation wing rushed to the spot. Soon, fire and rescue services personnel from Mylapore arrived and doused the fire after a half-an-hour battle. The bodies were extricated and sent to the Government   for postmortem. A case was registered under IPC Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder). Ashwin, 31, married Nivedhitha, 26, on February 14, 2016 and were planning a honeymoon later this month, police said, after talking to the families.
 
 The couple lived at   near Alapakkam in Valasaravakkam. Ashwin's father Sundar told police the two left home around 11.30pm on Friday to visit a friend at Leela Palace hotel in MRC Nagar. A senior police officer said, "We checked the hotel register, but there was no entry of the couple. CCTV footage at the entrance also showed Ashwin and his wife didn't visit the hotel." 
 
 
