THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Giving the expat Malayalis in Gulf countries a glimmer of hope, the civil aviation ministry has responded positively to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s demand to prevent airlines from hiking airfare steeply during peak seasons in the Gulf-Kerala sector. This has been a long-pending demand of Gulf Malayalis.

 In a meeting of   companies convened by the chief minister here on Monday, civil aviation secretary   said the ministry was willing to take appropriate measures against the trend of ‘unjustifiable’ increase in airfare during festival seasons like Onam.
 
 When the civil aviation secretary informed the meeting that the ministry was ready to allocate more seats to foreign airlines during such seasons, the representatives of various airlines said airfare hikes could be avoided if the allotments of seats were made well in advance. The ministry usually allocates seats to foreign airlines as per bilateral agreements.
 
 “The trend of hiking airfare exploiting the rush during festival seasons cannot be justified,” said the chief minister during the meeting. “In some seasons, the flight tickets in Gulf-Kerala sector are costlier than those to Europe,” he pointed out. Representatives of the airlines had responded positively to the demand, said the chief minister after the meeting.
 
 The meeting, a first-of-its-kind was convened by the state government to raise various demands including more international and domestic services connecting four airports in the state, including the upcoming   airport. Representatives of around 20 airlines, senior officials of civil aviation ministry and the state government, besides the directors of all airports in the state attended the meeting.
 
 Choubey, meanwhile, said that the airlines were asked to give inputs on the option of operating additional flights in Kerala-Gulf sector during the peak season. 
 
 On the demand raised by the airline companies to reduce the VAT being levied on aviation turbine fuel as an encouragement for conducting more services, the chief minister said the proposal was under government’s consideration.
 
 
 
