CHANDIGARH: Congress on Thursday released its third list of 23 candidates but held back 17 of the most contentious names. 

 Even though a section of party leaders was expecting   Ghubaya, son of sitting  , to be fielded against deputy   from Jalalabad, he has been nominated from Fazilka. The Congress’s third list consists of two women candidates, taking the total number of women to 10.
 
 Among the former Akali leaders, Kamaljit Singh Karwal, considered a close associate of the Bains brothers in Ludhiana, has been chosen as the “most suitable candidate” to fight on the Congress ticket from Atam Nagar. Another ex-Akali leader to find his name in the list is Pritam Singh Kotbhai from Bucho Mandi.
 
 Former Akali leader Deepinder Singh Dhillon (Derabassi) is also among new entrants in the Congress to have been chosen to contest on the party ticket. From Nihal Singh Wala (SC) constituency, the party has fielded sitting Akali MLA Rajwinder Kaur Bhagikay.
 
 Sitting Congress MLA Rakesh Pandey (Ludhiana North) too has been included in the list. Tejinder Bittu, former Jalandhar Improvement Trust chairman (Jalandhar North), and former member of Parliament Mohinder Singh Kaypee (Adampur) are among the other prominent names in the list. From Dasayu, Arun Dogra, son of former Punjab minister Ramesh Chander Dogra, has been given the chance again this time, with the party also deciding to go back to several former MLAs who had worked hard in their constituencies during the past 10 years.
 
 Even though former former MP Mohinder Kaypee has been rehabilitated in Adampur, Congress did not announce the Ludhiana East seat, from where former Union minister Manish Tewari is seeking a ticket and has Amarinder’s support. He is, however, facing opposition from Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu. Amit Vij, son of 2012 poll candidate from Pathankot, Anil Vij, has been fielded in place of his father. Meanwhile, AAP’s senior leader H S Phoolka will have to fight it out with Major Singh Bhaini son of former MLA Gurdeep Bhaini in Dakha. Jassi Khangura had lost from the seat in 2012 polls.
 
 Expressing satisfaction at the candidate selection,   president Captain   said the remaining 17 seats would also be declared soon. He reiterated that the party was well prepared for the electoral battle and expressed the confidence of making a clean sweep of the polls scheduled for February 4.
 
