KOCHI: The rainfall deficiency last year is beginning to show in the groundwater levels in the state. According to the   ( ), the water levels have shown a dip in almost all districts in November 2016.

 The report says that water levels in 82% of the total dug wells in the state has shown a fall except in Pathanamthitta district.
 
 A major part of the Pathanamthitta district has registered a rise in water levels in the range of 0 to 2 m. A fall in fluctuation of water levels of more than 4m was recorded in isolated pockets of Thiruvananthapuram and Malappuram districts while a fluctuation in water levels in the range of 0-2 m is observed in isolated patches of all districts.
 
 Officials said that due to urbanization and industrialization, the stress on groundwater has increased in past few years, which resulted in problems like decline in water table and contamination of groundwater at many places.
 
 Of the 1,680 wells monitored by CGWB, 1,411 are dug wells tapping aquifers and 269 are borewellstubewells which tap deeper aquifers of confined semi-confined nature.
 
 The annual water level fluctuations are calculated by comparing the water level data of the same period (November) in 2015 and 2016.
 
 “The rise in agricultural activity has an impact on groundwater as it facilitates recharging of aquifers. It also increases the soil retention capacity . Pathnamthitta is having a lot of agriculture activity, so are parts of Palakkad. In the central region too activities in the wetlands in the last couple of years probably had an impact,“ said E Shaji, faculty member, department of geology,   .
 
 Groundwater experts said that soil behaviour plays a role in ensuring that the water percolates into the bottom. “Places which get both monsoons like Thiruvananthapuram and Kanyakumari have strong recharge capacity depending on whether the soil is laterite or rock. We should start protecting wetlands and agricultural lands which are a huge source of groundwater recharge,“ said C P Priju, scientist, groundwater division,   and Management.
 
 He said that there are regions where groundwater is depleting because of the pressure due to over-use of borewells.
 
 The CGWB report says that when compared to April 2016, there is a rise in water level in the range of 0 ­ 8.00 metres in most parts of the state, whereas fall in water level is noticed in certain small isolated pockets mainly in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Kottayam, Pathanamthitta, Ernakulam, Malappuram Kozhikkode and Wayanad districts. In Kasargod district, the rise in water level is predominantly seen in the range of 2-8 m.
 
