KOLKATA: Chief minister   gave a warning to   asking them to make amends within a week’s time. Comparing private hospitals with   (Hashpatal kasiakhana hoye geche...), she said the hospitals should   and for that her government was ready to co-operate even if there were some mistakes.

 Mamata made it clear that profits are to be made within a limit in healthcare. “For any investment there should be returns, but hospital business should not be equated with any other commercial activity,” the CM said on Monday while inaugurating Kamalnayan Bajaj Sankara Nethralaya in Rajarhat that will conduct 3000 free eye surgeries every year. It’s their second campus after Mukundapur.
 
 The rampage at CMRI after a teenager’s death on February 15 threw open complaint floodgates against private hospitals. The   held a meeting with private health service providers recently and told them that a new bill would be tabled in the assembly on Friday. The CM said there were allegations of inflated bills and inhuman attitude against the private hospitals.
 
 “Speaking on behalf of the people of the state, I want to say hospital is not a place for business. It is a place for selfless service and sacrifice. Hospital business should not be equated with real estate business, as promoters there can sell their property at any fancy price. All men in healthcare are not bad, but all are also not good. Some have a goody goody image and don’t actually deliver. I don’t like them. You have to do business but at the end of the day people should smile, it should be service with a smile and humanity.”
 
 Banerjee also warned that the government would not tolerate any kidney racket and child trafficking racket in government and private hospitals. She said the private hospitals and nursing homes often do not follow the norms and lack infrastructure.
 
 Making it clear that the government would come down heavily on the “inhuman” healthcare system, the CM said, “Today I drafted the new bill for four hours and I am not going to spare the offenders. I want the government and private bodies to work hand in hand so that we can give better service to the common people.” She said negligence in healthcare was a major offence. The new bill is likely to recommend stringent and punitive actions against private hospitals and nursing homes if they indulge in over-billing and are accused of showing inhuman attitude.
 
 “There is a PG hospital, but some people are running PG nursing home (referring to a Burdwan nursing home). Some private operators have crossed all limits. Some people approached me on Saturday nigh saying some hospitals asked patients’ relatives to submit their fixed deposits. Why will this happen?” she asked. “Large number of patients come to government hospitals from neighbouring states and countries. We cannot refuse treatment to anyone and thus our health budget is escalating,” she said.
 
 
