THANE: The   that hit the lake city on Friday bought in a momentary wave of cool air, but left the citizens with lots of inconvenience. From power cuts to slippery roads, Thaneites had a tough time due to the sudden showers. The Thane creek was filled with layers of silt, waste and pollutants accumulated in the nallahs.

 Aryan Shrivastav, a resident of Thane’s   area who commutes to the lake-city from his office in Vikhroli said, “There was a massive train delay due to the sudden rains and I was forced to take a cab from my office in Vikhroli. The roads, too, were slippery and I was just saved from meeting with an accident, as my vehicle skidded twice during the journey.To make matters worse, there was no electricity at my place when I reached. I would say that the cool wave that accompanied the rain was short lived.”
 
 Apart from citizens the marine life in the creek also suffered as the waste accumulated in the nallahs washed into it with the light showers.
 
 Rajesh Kharkar, a fisherman from Vitawa, said, “Once the rain showers subsided we started seeing a black layer of filth floating over the creek water. The silt and garbage piled up in the drains and within the mangrove roots must have been wash out as the creek water literally turned black and we could see plastic more in our nets on Saturday. The fish here will surely die soon.”
 
 Activists from the city point out that the civic body needs to take these showers as a warning call and speed up their pre-monsoon work. “Four to five days ago the TMC, as a part of its pre-monsoon nallah cleaning drive, cleared the silt from the storm water drains in many parts of the city but piled it along the drain itself. With these rains, the mess obviously went back into the drain,” said Shashikumar Nair, a member of the Residents’ Association of Glady Alvares Road (RAGA).
 
 Weathermen predict that these pre-monsoon showers may continue in scattered locations over the coming two to three days. “These rains are basically the result of the heat in the area evaporating the humid trough winds passing over from   to Kerala. This evaporation creates tall clouds which are coming down in rain in isolated locations here. It should subside soon,” said  , chief meteorologist at skymetweather.com. 
 
 
