Ever since she featured in   Kannada, Season 4,   has found herself in the thick of action and more often than not, they’ve been rather unpleasant situations. While her stint on the reality show was spoken about for the longest time, last week, it was about the   controversy. And this week, it was about a remark she made on actor Darshan on a chat show. In a rapid fire with BT, Sanjana comes clean on all the rumours and allegations made against her.
 
  
 
  I’m just 20. I still have a long way to go to develop a world view. I am also quite bindaas that way and don’t take things too seriously. This was used by some in the BB house to their advantage and they kept calling me a dumb chick.
  
  
 
  The Bigg Boss house is a strange place. You’ll never meet such people in your regular life. In such a scenario, it was Bhuvan who made me feel comfortable and he became a good friend. Pratham, of course, said ‘I love you’, but it’s best to ignore that.
  
  
 
  I don’t answer calls from unknown numbers, it’s that simple.
  
  
 
  That’s because once an issue erupts, they call you for an opinion. I finish giving my side of the story, but it doesn’t stop there. The story gets dragged on and on. Which is why these days, once I finish giving somebody my take, I just keep quiet and do not prefer to go on talking about the issue.
  
  
 
  Not true at all. Bhuvan and Pratham were in the midst of the fight when Pratham began making unsavoury remarks about Bhuvan, his family and me. It was not because of me as is being said.
  
  
 
  We had lost touch after Bigg Boss. We met again on the sets of Sanju Mattu Naanu. Now we are Hi-Bye friends.
  
  
 
  It has been once again blown out of proportion. On the show, I was asked to name a build-up actor and I said Darshan. That’s because I’ve watched his films and he gets a lot of build-up before his entry in films and even during song sequences. That is all I said. But the media conveniently ignored the movie bit of it and spun a story saying Sanjana called Darshan a build-up star. I’m sorry, but that’s not what I said.
  
  
 
  That in this industry, it is best to keep one’s mouth shut. All these days I used to share my personal opinion, but clearly it is a trait that is not appreciated in this field. Even if you don’t like something, you have to mask your feelings. I, too will be diplomatic henceforth.
