PATNA: Those having cars and going on a long drive is common, but the new trend in Patna is to enjoy a bike ride to some distant land. 

 Ravi Shankar, who owns a lounge in the city, said although there have been passionate riders taking solo trips in the past, the trend has caught the imagination of Patnaites in the last 2-3 years. “I started taking solo trips in 2014. Before that, I would take part in car rallies, but realized that bike rides were way more interesting. Now, we are a group of five friends. We have taken rides to Nepal, Sikkim, Leh Ladakh and several other smaller trips to Delhi and Manali. A short trip may take as less as three days and a long one may last from 17 to 20 days. The minimum cost per person for a short bike trip is Rs10, 000,” said Ravi.
 
 He also said most people believe riding means speed, but it is really about passion to travel. “If one is truly passionate about riding a bike, s/he should try Khardung La, the highest motorable road. That will truly be an adventure trip,” he said. 
 
 Chandra Shekhar Sharma has a bike riders club in Patna with 96 members from different districts of Bihar as well as Jamshedpur and Kolkata. “My club has travelled to Nepal and Darjeeling among other places. But there are only 15 really serious riders who regularly go on a trip. People do not want to take risk or spend much on a trip, but the trend is slowly picking up,” said Sharma, adding that more and more people were join the riders clubs. 
 
 “Although the expenditure depends on the distance travelled, minimum Rs10, 000 is required for a short distance trip and between Rs1 lakh and Rs1.5 lakh for a long one,” he said.
 
 Another bike enthusiast is Noor Ali. He formed a riders’ club around two and a half years ago. “We are still quite young as a club. We have only taken trips to places like Rajgir, Vaishali, Chhapra and Varanasi. We do take proper care of the safety precautions and gears. It has cost us anything from Rs2,500 to Rs3,000. We still have a long way to go before we go to distant land,” he said.
 
 However, the bikers say before taking a ride, one must have basic safety gears in place, like certified safety helmets, safety boots, knee and elbow guards and gloves. It does not matter how expensive the bike is. It should be durable. Puncture kit is an absolute necessity. Some spare parts like spark plug, accelerator wire, headlight bulb, clutch cable and brake lever have to be carried at all times. Basic knowledge of how to fix your bike is a must.
 
 
