THANE: The Congress and the   in the lake city were pushed to a near-negligible position in 131-member general body of the   Municipal Corporation.

 Of the 51 candidates fielded by the Congress, which was in an alliance with the NCP, a miniscule three corporators --- Yasin Quereshi, Dipali Bhagat (from the minority-dominated Mumbra ward) and Vikrant Chavan (from Vartak Nagar area) emerged triumphant.
 
 The Congress party performance was its lowest ebb ever, as the party which had 18 and 16 corporators in 2012 and 2007 respectively was reduced to a single digit.
 
 Wrecked by internal feuds, the popular perception of ‘deals and arrangements’ with the Shiv Sena leadership, besides the poor leadership of the city Congress chief Manoj Shinde are being attributed to the party’s biggest upset.
 
 In fact, Shinde and his brother Shailesh, both sitting corporators, too lost from their stronghold in Wagle Estate, while another sitting corporator and brother of ex-city chief Chattrapati Purnekar too was routed. Most of the 18 sitting corporators, including Minal Sankhe, Deepak Vetkar, Jaishri Phatak and Manprit Shan, Rajan Kine his wife Pramila, Sanjay Ghadigaonkar, Narayan Pawar and Malthy Patil had bade adieu to the party before the polls.
 
 “All those who had quit the Congress recently were upset with the goings-on as there was no clear agenda. In fact, most of them have won from their respective wards clearly indicating that the voters preferred the candidates and not the hand symbol. It is a very worrying trend and if the state and the central leadership does not intervene now, even these three corporators will switch,” said an insider.
 
 The MNS, on the other hand, has been erased from the political scape in the lake city as all its candidates lost. MNS had won seven seats in 2012  .
 
 The Raj Thackeray-led party was once an alternative to the growing clout of the Sena and had even made inroads in the BJP citadels. However, the party seems to be rudderless and lacks a clear vision and the party workers are bereft of any clear development or political agenda.
 
