NEW DELHI:   Sitaram Yechury’s re-election to Parliament is expected to become a point of contention at the Communist Party of India-Marxist’s next politburo meeting on June 6 and 7. Yechury’s term in the Rajya Sabha is scheduled to end in August this year, when six seats from West Bengal, the state he represents in Rajya Sabha, will fall vacant. 

 On the one hand, while Yechury has said he will not flout the norms of the party — current rules allow upto two terms for party leaders — the West Bengal unit of the CPIM has unanimously backed Yechury’s candidature for a third term in the upper house citing previous exceptions to the two-term rule. Sources in the party’s West Bengal unit also said they have argued that if Yechury is not re-elected, and because no other candidate has found favour with the state unit, the CPIMs and West Bengal's representation will dwindle further in Parliament.
 
 The West Bengal unit’s recommendation, however, has triggered rumblings of dissent among the anti-Yechury lobby in the CPIM, which has argued that as general secretary, it would be unbecoming of him to flout laid down norms. With CPIM running short of the requisite numbers it needs in the West Bengal assembly to re-elect its candidate, a section of the party also appears wary of leaning on the Congress, to send one of its own to the Rajya Sabha. A senior party functionary told TOI that the party would prefer to let its representation drop in Parliament, rather than to partner with the Congress, which it is battling in poll-bound Tripura. 
 
 Yechury’s enviable track record in the Rajya Sabha, where he is among the most active voices among the political opposition, though, has won him support from other opposition leaders including the Congress,   and  . 
 
 Sources in the Congress told TOI that the party has even agreed to not field its own candidate for the Rajya Sabha seats falling vacant in West Bengal, if the CPIM agree to field Yechury. JDU leader Sharad Yadav, and NCP’s Sharad Pawar, have also openly supported a third term for Yechury.
 
 The odds, in the present circumstances, may be stacked in favour of Yechury. Traditionally, in the CPIM, the final decision on who should be nominated lies with the state unit where the vacancy arises. In this case, Yechury has the unanimous support of the CPIM West Bengal unit. 
 
 Till date, there has been no precedent of the politburo striking down the decision of a state unit, especially in a case where a proposal is moved unanimously. The politburo, though deeply divided on Yechury's renomination, will, therefore, be pressured to make an exception for the leader, like it has done in the past. 
 
 If, however, it refuses to bend the rules for Yechury, the state unit can move the Central committee of the CPIM and challenge the politburo’s decision. Now, with the Election Commission deferring Rajya Sabha polls in light of the presidential polls and it's EVM hackathon, the West Bengal unit has extra time to press for a third-term in the Rajya Sabha for  .
 
