Udaipur: Implementing a   move, Udaipur district administration is all set to launch a common card payment system under smart city initiative. First in Rajasthan, the common card would be most multi-utility oriented card not only for residents but also for visitors coming to Udaipur. In first phase, over 25,000 smart cards would be issued free of cost. 

 Once the card gets operational, there will be no need for the cardholder to carry money in wallet as it would cover recreation, payments and utility bills at almost every government and private windows. This move corroborates with the Digital India program to transform cities into digitally empowered societies and make citizens enlightened. Cashless transactions would also mean reduced corruption and zero black money. 
 
 “With cards in hand, people especially tourists do not have to worry to make any sort of payments in municipal limits. Whether it is a hotel or restaurant bill, paying taxes, buying entry tickets to any tourist place, boat rides or eating at Mumbaiya Chat Bazaar at Fatehsagar Lake, one has to just swipe the card,” Udaipur collector Rohit Gupta told TOI.
 
 The project is being carried out in collaboration with Namaste Ji — a division of Gujarat based company Shree Padmavati Online Services Private Limited which specialises in providing one stop solution for all daily needs. The company, which also has prepaid taxi services in the city, has deployed booths and is in process to set up more outlets from where the smart cards would be issued. 
 
 “By April, we aim to issue 25,000 cards to people who apply for it at various outlets in the city. The card will have validity of maximum five years and cardholder can recharge it for a maximum amount of RS 10, 000,” Alpesh Doshi, founder chairman of the company said. The company has a tie-up with Yes Bank which will issue these smart cards, acceptable for all kind of payments by outlets facilitating online payments.
 
 “Recharging the card would be easy too. If the balance expires, cardholder may get it recharged at any of the 800 Namastey Ji outlets at famous junctions and markets,” Doshi said. Initially, the card would work only within Udaipur city but gradually it would be acceptable pan India due to our wide network in many other cities, he added. The city card project would also generate employment opportunities for the physically challenged persons who would be appointed at Namastey Ji booths to facilitate the cardholders.
 
 Benefits of City Card
 
 Zero Cost
 
 Widely Accepted
 
 Promote cashless/digitization movement
 
 100 % payment security
 
 No cash worries
 
 Dedicated 24x7 helpline services
 
 
