VARANASI: Breaking the records of the 2012 assembly and 2014 Lok Sabha elections, the district recorded 63.64% voting on Wednesday.

 The high turnout of voters in all eight assembly constituencies was evident since the beginning of polling at 7am. Till the end of polling at 5pm, the district recorded 61.32% polling but long queues remained at many booths inside  . After polling ended at 6.30 pm, district election officer Yogeshwar Ram Mishra said the total percentage of polling was 63.64%. In the 2012 assembly elections, the district had registered 57.68% polling that rose to 58.31% in the 2014 elections.
 
 Polling percentage would have gone much higher had the names of thousands of voters--many were seen making a hue and cry at polling centres--not been deleted from electoral rolls. Mishra said complaints had come to his knowledge and he he had set up an inquiry into the matter of deletion of names from the voters' list. The accountability of booth-level officers would also be fixed, he said.
 
 The Election Commission had conducted exercises like cricket matches, street plays, rallies and awareness campaigns for more than a month to increase the polling percentage. Election officials said they were happy over the turnout.
 
 Rajendra Prasad Tirpathi of Chaubeypur feel that highvoltage campaign by Modi for three days, roadshow of chief minister Akhilesh Yadav and   vice-president Rahul Gandhi and rallies by BSP supremo Mayawati and other politicians also resulted in mobilizing the voters.
 
 Realising the ground realities, especially the resentment among a section of workers after denial of ticket to seven-time BJP MLA Shyamdeo Roy Chaudhary , dissatisfaction against fielding of Saurabh Srivastava at Cantonment seat, tough contest in Varanasi North seat due to SP-Congress alliance and division of Apna Dal and BJP brought 25 Unions ministers and dozens of star campaigners to the city.
 
 The SP-Congress alliance, BSP and smaller parties did not allow the BJP to steal the show. The city remained abuzz with mega political shows for more than a week after the end of the fifth phase of elections. People in villages and townships of Ajgara (SC), Pindra and Sewapuri assembly constituencies like Raunakala, Tarva and Murdaha said that shows of Modi, Akhilesh and Rahul left an impact on rural masses.
 
