HYDERABAD: Students appearing for their   board exams from schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education ( ) will have to appear for six subjects from the academic year beginning 2017-18, as the board has remodelled the  .

 Until now, it was mandatory for class 10 students to study only five subjects -two languages, social science, mathematics and science. The vocational subject was optional and listed as an `additional' course.
 
 As per a new circular issued by the board on Thursday , it will be compulsory for students to study the vocational subject as well. They will have to take a 100-mark examination for the subject, under the National Skills Qualifications Framework.Of this, the written exam conducted by the board will have a weightage of 50 marks while the remaining 50 marks will be allocated for internal assessment or practical examination, conducted by the school. Students will have to score a minimum of 33% marks in both exams to clear the subject, the remodelled assessment scheme states. “If any student fails in any one of the three elective subjects (i.e. science, mathematics and social science), then it will be replaced by the vocational subject (offered as a 6th additional subject) and result of class 10 board examinations will be computed accordingly ,“ the circular reads.
 
 It further states that students opting for a vocational subject shall be exempted from work education or prevocational activities, but assessment of art education, health and physical education shall remain the same. The remodelled system has been welcomed by city principals as many believe that it will offer a fair chance to students to enhance their skills. “It will definitely benefit students who fail in their electives as the vocational subject may increase their cumulative score. Although there will be additional burden on them to study an additional subject as a compulsory subject, it will only enhance their skill sets,“ said Jayanthi Venkataraman, principal of Sister Nivedita School located in Ameerpet.
 
