PUNE: The Bombay high court has given four-week time to the special land acquisition officer, Pune, and the   (MIDC) to furnish detailed reply-affidavits regarding the allotment of plots on a controversial three-acre land in Bhosari MIDC.

 In an order on March 9, the bench of Chief Justice   and Justice   directed that the reply-affidavits be filed along with “specific documents indicating or establishing the facts that the plots were allotted, those plots are in whose possession and whether industries are constructed on the plots in question.” 
 
 The land came into focus after its original owners— the Ukani family — sold it to the then revenue minister Eknath Khadse’s wife and son-in-law in April last year despite MIDC’s claim that it had acquired the land long back in a proceeding under the MIDC Act.   had to step down as a minister on June 4 last year over charges of misuse of his official position to get the deal through. 
 
 The Ukanis struck the deal with Khadse’s family members despite the fact that a writ petition by Abbas Rasulbhai Ukani, the Kolkata-based power of attorney (POA)-holder, is pending in the Bombay HC. The petition, filed on September 8, 2015, canvases issues regarding acquisition and award of compensation in relation to the land. It came up for hearing before the bench on March 9. 
 
 The bench referred to the submissions made on behalf of the petitioner and observed, “In spite of the petition being pending for the last two years and the respondents (MIDC and others) having appeared in the matter, we do not see affidavit-in-reply of the respondents except bare submissions made across the bar by learned counsel appearing for the MIDC.”
 
 The petitioner has claimed that the acquisition proceeding initiated under Section 32 of the MIDC Act never reached its logical end. That, the possession was never taken from the owner of the land i.e. the petitioner or his predecessor, and no amount towards compensation has been paid to the petitioner till date. The petitioner has further cited a letter purportedly addressed by the special land acquisition officer, Pune, to MIDC’s regional officer on February 10, 2010, stating that no possession was taken and no award was passed. 
 
 The counsel appearing for MIDC submitted that the land acquisition officer did hand over the possession of the land to the MIDC and the latter carried out developments on the same, besides demarcating plots and allotting the same to several persons. The counsel submitted that industries are in existence on the land in question after the allotment of plots. The counsel also cited a letter purportedly addressed by the deputy collector (acquisition) to the petitioner on December 18, 2010 intimating that the acquisition proceedings were completed and the compensation had been deposited with the land acquisition officer. 
 
 The bench then pointed out that the possession has to taken by the land acquisition officer and the MIDC has no role in the award of compensation as it is to be done by the land acquisition officer. “Neither the land acquisition officer nor the MIDC have placed on record the details regarding the above facts till date,” the bench said. 
 
