BATHINDA: The Punjab State   Limited (PSPCL) has decided to dismantle two units each of Guru Nanak Dev thermal plant here and Guru Gobind Singh super thermal plant in Ropar. In the meeting of its board of directors (BoD) held in the first week of July, the PSPCL cleared the proposal to dismantle two units of 110MW each in Bathinda and two of 210 MW each in Ropar. These units are of sub-critical technology.

 The proposal will be sent to the state government soon for approval, confirmed PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad. He said that the decision had been taken in the light of the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) norms prescribing the life of any fuel-based thermal plant at 25 years and tough emission norms.
 
 These plants, as per PSPCL officials, do not fulfil the norms on both counts of age and emission as both have outlived their age and are not fully capable to reduce carbon emissions. The cost of generation at Bathinda is highest among the state-owned and private sector plants with usage of coal at 0.669kg/kilowatt power generation per hour. The plant workers and power engineers, however, want to continue using the existing thermal plants in the state.
 
 The first unit of   was made operational in September 1974 and second in September 1975. The first unit of Ropar themal plant was set up September 1984 and the second in March 1985. Bathinda plant has four units with the other two of 120 MW each. Ropar plant has six units, all of 210 MW each. Four units of Bathinda plant were constructed at a cost of Rs 115 crore while Rs 229 crore were spent on renovation and modernisation (R&M) of unit I and II from 2004-07 and Rs 465 crore on unit III and IV from 2012-14. The two units of Ropar plant had come up with Rs 380 crore.
 
 Sources said though in principal the decision to dismantle the units had been taken, the PSPCL had plans to dismantle all four units of Bathinda and six units of Ropar plants in a phased manner. The PSPCL wants to construct three units of 800 MW each of super-critical technology in Ropar and set up 100 MW solar plant in Bathinda.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Prasad said that, “The decision has been taken as these have outlived their life. Bathinda thermal plant has load factor of only 15%, which means two units could run for 15% of the installed capacity in the last two years and its generation cost is also high. We have a proposal to set up a 100 MW solar plant in Bathinda on 400 acres available with thermal plant.”
 
 The PSEB Engineers Association president, Sanjeev Sood, and regional secretary   said that if the units had to be dismantled, the state should construct super-critical plant in Ropar and should not decrease the share of power generation through state-owned plants.
 
