PUNE: The   along the highways took the fizz out of   in   in April this year.

 Though excise revenue in April, both in state and Pune, increased, liquor sales in the district plummeted like never before. All categories of liquor saw a dip in sales this April with Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) recording over 18% fall and beer sales dipping by over 19%. Country liquor and wine have been the biggest losers with over 26% dip in sales.
 
 April was the first month the ban came into effect. It was characterised by sluggish movement of liquor from manufacturers to distributers. Excise department officials said that the ban has slowed down movement of liquor stock from manufacturing units to wholesalers, with only 40% stock being dispatched by manufacturers in April. “If 100% stock was dispatched from manufacturing units last year, this April saw just 40%,” the official said.
 
 “Though the excise department revenue for Pune district increased by 23% in April this year in comparison to the same period last year, this was only because the revenue in April 2016 was quite less. Last year in March, distributors had picked up a lot of stock from manufacturers expecting an impending increase in excise duty. So, April 2016 saw a dip in revenue as stock picked up in March that year was dumped with retailers. Though April 2017’s revenue appears to be higher than April 2016, this does not portray a true picture of liquor sales,” the excise official said.
 
 The reality is liquor sales in the district suffered a huge blow following the   ban. “Of the 2,400 establishments in Pune district, liquor licences of 1,600 were sealed, including 169 licences of wine shops, 899 permit room licences, 197 retail shop licences, among others. Many wine shops downed shutters while restaurants and hotels unable to sell liquor reported a drop in customers,” said a source from the Pune District Wine Merchants Association.
 
 Another source in the   said that though liquor sales at outlets in operation peaked in April 2017, other outlets were closed on account of the ban. “This did not compensate for the loss of total liquor sales in the district, as numerous establishments do not sell liquor anymore,” he said.
 
