PUNE: From uploading baseline test scores to updating school details for the   programme and other administrative work, teachers are increasingly spending their time outside school online.
Those from rural areas, especially , have to go to cybercafes to complete their online duties, and they are not a happy lot. Complaining about the time consumed by this exercise, and the lack of Internet connection at schools, teacher associations in the state have joined hands to demand that the government release them from these duties. If not, they threatened to stage a protest across schools in Maharashtra.
 
 Last week in Ahmednagar district, teachers had protested, demanding that the state government allow them to appoint an official dedicated to the online work.
 
 "If the teachers are involved in administrative work, this will definitely reflect on the students' performance," said  , a teacher. "There should be a separate provision for online work, which is increasing each day . It is very unfortunate that teachers across the state are pleading with the government to allow them to teach."
 
 "The government has imposed a stay on recruitment in schools," chipped in Vasant Bhelke, also a teacher."The re-allocation of teachers has also not been finished. I have about three posts of teachers vacant for several months. In this case, the additional job of online up dation is just increasing the burden on the existing strength," he added.
 
 "Many teachers are finishing the online work after school hours," said  , a teacher from   in Jalgaon. "These teachers are not even opposing this task, but are just asking for adequate facilities to do it properly . More than anything else, the teachers are fed up with the lack of facilities,"   added.
 
 State education secretary Nand Kumar, however, said, "This is a part of the administrative work that each teacher must execute because they are in the best position to know the information being uploaded. There is stress on the online task because it is faster and transparency is maintained. Besides, every teacher need not be involved in updation work; any one teacher could do it."
 
