COIMBATORE: The work on revamping  , one of the busiest and crowded places in the city, has finally gathered momentum. Besides a fresh coat of paint to give the biggest bus stand in the district a bright look, in store are cleaner walls and ceilings that can withstand seepage and a smooth pavement for commuters. The renovation is expected to be completed by Friday.

 The renovation work at the bus stand, which commenced a less than a month ago, was seen progressing at a brisk pace on Wednesday afternoon. While a set of workers were busy repainting and installing the blue and white board at the entrance, another set of workers were seen on the terrace, lending a coat of fresh olive green paint to the parapet walls. “We will also redo all the broken and chipped cement tiles covering the drainage line, which also act as the pavement,” said a senior executive engineer attached to the civic body, which is carrying out the renovation work.
 
 Two mobile steel toilet units were also seen being installed in the front entrance of the bus stand. “Since the bus stand sports many tiled walls, we are just cleaning it by removing stickers and stains,” the engineer said.
 
 The project, implemented partly under the Swachh Bharat scheme and general improvement, is estimated to cost around Rs42 lakh. According to city police records, around 543 buses pass through or stop at the stand. With each bus supposed to enter and leave the stand at least five times, it sees around 2,500 entries a day.
 
 Till around a week ago, bus commuters, especially women, dreaded a long wait at the bus stop mainly because they had no immediate toilet facilities and potable water supply was not dependable. Also, walking without casting one’s eyes on the ground would have invited trouble. Now, the passengers can heave a sigh of relief.
 
 “Whenever I bring my old mother or mother-in-law to the bus stand, anything more than an hour’s wait was difficult,” said a marketing professional, J Maheshwari. “Because, if they do want to use the toilet, there wasn’t any option but to cross the busy road and use it at one of the hotels as the one at the stand was unimaginably dirty and not even flushed,” she added. When it comes to drinking water,   said, only one of the corporation tanks have water and it was a long dangerous distance if you were on other end.
 
 However, a drinking water facility near the   entrance, installed by a private company, often acts as a saver for the poor who do want to shell out Rs20 on bottled water.
 
 The broken pavements on the bus stand were also posing danger, especially to old people who forget to look down when they walk. “Old people used to regularly trip on the pavements near the   entrance,” said a bus conductor, Krishna. A few of the concrete benches too are broken and they are likely to be replaced.
 
 
