You ought to be madly in love with each other to live an entire lifetime together. And Tollywood’s favourite couple,   and  , reinstates our faith in love. The pretty bride-to-be Ridhima looks all geared up for a fairytale ending to her romance with Gaurav on November 28. In a candid chat with CT, she talks about courtship, marriage, her wedding plans and more. Read on…

 
 
 (Laughs) Did you mean the seven-year itch? Actually, both of us felt it is the right time to get married, now that our relationship is tried and tested. We didn’t even realise how it all happened and when we started addressing each other as ‘tumi’ from ‘tui’. I think the song Jaane kaise kab kahaan iqraar ho gayaa/hum sochte hi rah gaye aur pyaar ho gayaa actually sums up our love story (blushes). Frankly, the idea of getting married has not sunk in yet. However, I am happy that I am finally getting married to my best friend. We wanted a registry marriage followed by a gala party. But both our families didn’t agree to that.
 
 
 While I keep bugging him to go wedding shopping with me, he is quite chilled out. He tells me, there is still a lot of time! Would you believe, he 
 has not yet decided what to wear on the wedding day? However, after a lot of pestering, Gaurav has bought a suit for our reception.
 As for me, I have already bought a red and gold benarasi for my wedding. I am planning to wear a pink and orange designer lehnga on my reception. The sari that I will be wearing for my aaiburobhat is sea green in colour, while it’ll be a yellow sari for my gaaye holud. I am the one who is deciding on the food menu for aaiburobhat, sangeet and wedding while Gaurav is taking it easy. Both of us are still looking for a house where we will shift after marriage. 
 
 
 Earlier it was me, but now Gaurav puts in a lot of effort to be the loving partner. He knows exactly what makes me happy. All of a sudden he would ask me out for dinner or a movie date. There are times, when he would want to go on a long drive with me when it is pouring outside. He loves to see me in red, and now he even compliments me when I dress up. These were unthinkable before, but he has changed now. Gaurav is extremely introverted, whereas I am totally the opposite. I always liked going out, clubbing and pub hopping, while he would sit at home watching films. Now, I like to be at home, while he enjoys going out. Earlier, we would often fight as we were as different as chalk and cheese.But now, we know our weaknesses and strengths. Gaurav has helped me calm down; he has made me more responsible. And I love his no-nonsense attitude.
 
 
 
 It is always Gaurav, no matter who is at fault. Perhaps not many are aware that Gaurav is very short-tempered. Let me tell you a secret. He loves it when I bake a cake, but he gets really annoyed if I offer it to someone else. He would rather have the cake all by himself. At that point, he’d behave like a kid. The longest fight we had lasted for 24 hours, when we didn’t speak to each other. But that apart, we need to fight everyday over silly things. I like the way he pampers me after every fight. That’s a sort of recreation for us.
 
 
 
 Yes, he picks me up and we go to the gym together. We have to meet every day (blushes)! We talk for about half an hour or so before hitting the bed every night. So, my day begins with his ‘good morning’ message and ends with a ‘good night’. On the days we fight, there is just a full stop after ‘good morning’, while on other days there’s a love emoji (laughs)!
 
 
 
 Love blossomed on the sets of Rang Milanti and we officially started dating soon after. He gifted me a music system on my birthday. And on November 24 last year, which was our anniversary, he made a scrap book with a collage of our pictures and note written on each photo. That’s a very precious gift. This year too, we will celebrate our anniversary with our friends in a big way. And do you know where will be the bachelorette party?
 
 
 
 In Goa. It’s a gift from our friends. Gaurav and I have common friends, so the party will be for both of us. There will be 15 or 16 of us, who will be flying to Goa on August 12 to celebrate.
 
 
 
 Both of us will start working on a web-series right after the wedding. So, honeymoon will have to wait for some time. We haven’t decided yet.
 
 
 
 What is there to flaunt? Neither of us flaunted it nor denied it. I guess Calcutta Times was the first newspaper to publish that we were dating. Love is a natural instinct. It can happen to anyone. So, why pay so much attention to it? That is our mantra.
 
 
 
 Well, at times we do discuss work. But ultimately, it is our own decision whether to sign a film or not. Gaurav is very supportive and encourages me a lot. He respects the fact that I could create a niche for myself sans any backing.
 
 
 
 It sounds romantic, isn’t it? Actually, we did that a lot of times.
 
 
 
 My father was there with me when we went outdoors for the shooting of Rang Milanti. After all, they are our parents. They always know what their kids are up to. By the way, my father is very fond of Gaurav. 
 
 
 
 Of course, I know that. My first film Friend was with him. So, from Benu da (Sabyasachi), Benu kaku to would-be baba, I have come a long way (laughs). Initially, I was awestruck by his personality. He taught me to be punctual on the sets. Both Mithu kakima and Benu kaku love me like their own daughter. Gaurav too is my best friend and extremely supportive guy. I am glad he is going to be my lifelong partner. What more can I ask for?
 
 
 
 Not at all! I have seen him getting mobbed by girls so often. I kind of enjoy it. An actor should be desirable.
 
 
 
 It was both disgusting and shocking! In today’s time, how can someone even think of it? I have just taken a break before marriage. Whatever little I have achieved so far, it was because of my hard work. I never had a Godfather in the industry to back me. I am very choosy when it comes to work. In fact, I had no release last year. But then, I can’t sign a film just to be seen or for money. I don’t know how long I can maintain that as I will be starting a new life soon. There will be EMIs to pay. But I want to assure everyone that I will be back with a bang.
 
 
 
 I don’t have an answer to that. It is not that I don’t have it in me what it takes to be an actor. It’s not that I didn’t prove my acting prowess. I maintain a cordial relationship with everyone in the industry. Actually, even I want to know where I lack, so that I can rectify myself.
 
 
 
 
 
 
