Bollywood composer   will be making his debut in Kollywood and Sandalwood with the Tamil and Kannada remakes of  .   was the composer of the original film. “We are not reusing any of the songs from original and Amit Trivedi will be composing new music that has a local flavour for these remakes. He is currently busy with a couple of projects. All the songs are background songs, unlike in most films, so, we will start work on the songs after we start shooting the film,” informs  , who will be directing both the remakes.

 Ramesh reveals that the Tamil version, which stars   in the lead role, has now been titled 'Paris Paris'. “The second Paris in the title refers to the capital of France, where the lead character goes to, but the first part has a mischievous twist that you will have to find out when you watch the film,” says Ramesh.
 
 The director says that he doesn’t believe in remaking frame by frame. “I have done remakes in Kannada as well. I like to retain the spirit of the original and the elements that work well, but I also rethink how to transpose the nuances to suit the characters and the locations where the remake is set in,” he says. This is why, he reveals, he has brought in writer Tamilachi Thangapandian to write the dialogues. “I was very clear from the beginning that I wanted a female mind to write the film since this is a female-centric film. When I discussed with my writer friends, Tamilachi Thangapandian’s name popped up. She is a big name in Tamil literary and political circles, and she accepted it. We had a fantastic time collaborating on the Tamil script. She has set the film in Virudhunagar, which is her hometown, so I think she has captured the smell of that soil in her dialogues,” he says.
 
 The muhurat of the Kannada version, Butterfly, was done a few days ago. “This is set in Gokarna, a coastal town, and the exact shoot will start on October 4,” he informs, and adds, “For the role played by Rajkummar Rao in the Hindi film, I have found a new boy, Shashi Varun. He speaks both Tamil and Kannada and has done many TV commercials. He is a trained actor,” says the director. 
 
