GAYA: Chief minister (CM)  , who held a review meeting at Gaya Collectorate on Sunday, asked the health department officials to expedite work for establishment of a trauma centre at   and Hospital (ANMMCH).

 The CM also asked the officials to depute a neuro surgeon in the hospital. Due to non-availability of a neuro surgeon, head injury patients are referred to   and Hospital (PMCH) and a few of them dies on way to the state capital.
 
 The government had approved establishment of a trauma centre at ANMMCH in 2010 at an estimated cost of Rs 6 crore and an initial amount of Rs 80 lakh was released for the purpose. Seven years later, the trauma centre has not gone beyond the plinth stage and the project virtually stands abandoned.
 
 Asked about the status of the trauma centre, ANMMCH superintendent Dr S K Sinha said he was not in a position to say much as the project was being handled by the State Health Society. “Initially, the funds were made available to the hospital. However, the project was subsequently transferred to the  ,” Sinha said.
 
 Gayaites have for long been demanding establishment of a trauma centre on account of high number of road accidents on NH-2, 82, 83 and the state highways. About 500 serious road accidents are reported from the district every year. Besides Gaya, ANMMCH caters to the requirements of people from Nawada, Aurangabad, Jahanabad and Arwal districts.
 
 Accident figures for 2016 have not been officially released. In 2015, 492 road accidents were reported from different parts of the district. At least 289 people, most of them youths, lost their lives in these road accidents. According to RTI activist  , quite a few lives were lost on account of non-availability of a specialised trauma centre and skilled medical professionals.
 
 Otherwise too, ANMMCH has been hitting the headlines for all the wrong reasons. Last year, a sanitary staff was caught signing attendance register on behalf of four doctors. Another doctor was found guilty of asking patients to visit his private nursing home.
 
 During an interactive session in August 2016, girl medicos complained of harassment and uninhabitable condition in the hostels. Attendants and OPD patients defecate in the open due to non-functioning toilets.
 
 The issue of lack of proper drainage system and resultant waterlogging also came up during the review meeting. The CM, according to sources, directed the building construction department officials to ensure proper drainage facility on the hospital premises.
 
