MADURAI: Banana yield in Tamil Nadu is much higher than the national average, with 100 metric tonnes produced per hectare against the national average of 37 metric tonnes, said minister for agriculture, R Doraikannu, here on Friday.
 
 He was speaking at the inauguration of the fourth edition of the National Banana Festival organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry, in association with the national horticulture mission and Tamil Nadu agriculture department and   growers federation in Madurai. Tamil Nadu is the only state which produces over 18 varieties of banana, while many other states produced only four varieties, he said. Government’s initiatives like subsidy for drip irrigation, tissue culture and liquid fertiliser were helping the farmers create record production.
 
 Value addition helps the banana farmers get better returns, said joint secretary, department of agriculture and co-operation, government of India, Dr Shakil P Ahammed, while a kg of bananas fetched Rs 30 at the farm gate, a kg of banana powder and chips sold for Rs 200 and Rs 250 respectively.
 
 Principal secretary to the agriculture department, Tamil Nadu, Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the state produced 62 lakh tonnes of banana every year and had three lakh hectares under banana cultivation. The state had four special schemes to promote  , he added.
 
 Experts said that Tamil Nadu was the fifth largest banana producer in the world and that all efforts were being taken to make it the number one producer in the next five years.
 
 Ministers K A Sengottaiyan, Dindigul C Sreenivasan, Sellur K Raju and R B Udayakumar said the government was committed to enhancing and prioritising agriculture in the state.
 
 A model multi-purpose cold storage facility and ripening chamber, which will help create awareness on cold chain techniques among farmers, students and stakeholders which will improve farmers’ income and reduce post-harvest losses, was inaugurated at the exhibition held at the Tamil Nadu Agriculture University (TNAU) in Madurai.
 
 
