KOLKATA: Chief minister   on Friday indicated that she is thinking of developing a policy framework to check the ever-increasing fee structure and donations in private educational institutions in Bengal. “This is something which worries me and I would like to speak to them (the private   and colleges) to frame a policy on it,” she said.

 The CM asked state education minister   to call a meeting with school authorities after the board examinations get done. Mamata, however, made it clear that unlike the government-driven initiative to reign in the private healthcare sector, she would like the suggestions coming from the school themselves. “Let them come forth with suggestions. We will implement a policy factoring in everything,” she told the state assembly.
 
  However, since most popular schools in Kolkata are minority schools and beyond the ambit of Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009, the state can act only on those very few schools which receive any aide from it. 
 
  “I have come across reports about how some schools are demanding unthinkable amounts as donations. This isn’t right. I have tremendous respect for our teaching fraternity. They create our future, they instil values. I will listen to them. I will take their inputs,” she said. 
 
 The policy, she suggested, would cover all private educational institutes. 
 
 Nabarun De, principal of Central Modern School in Baranagar, said, “It is a great initiative to hold a meeting with private schools. But it is not true that schools affiliated to CISCE take donation. That is illegal. If any parent can furnish a document to support their claim, then the school found to violate the regulation is liable for legal action.”
 
 “Based on the rules fixed by the state, the basic pay scale of teachers and other remunerations are uniformly maintained. But the private non-aided schools fix the fee depending on the infrastructure. The state has no rule to put a cap on it,” De added.
 
 Another principal of a private school in Central Kolkata pointed out that the minority schools are not under the purview of RTE 2009. 
 
 “How can the state fix any limit on the fee we charge? The schools are affiliated to central boards, there is no provision in the RTE that can force us to acknowledge the state rules regarding fees.”
 
 A similar attempt was made by the Left Front government in 2010, when the private school authorities were summoned to Writer’s Buildings. But the meeting was not fruitful.
 
 
