CHENNAI: On December 20 morning, operators of   – the country’s first hotline to report images of child sexual abuse -- had a message from an anonymous person. The note red-flagged more than 200 videos in an online file showing baby girls and boys of various ethnicities being raped and sexually tortured. The webpage was traced to Russia, and the content removed in less than a day.

 Close to eight months after the online portal to report child sexual abuse imagery was launched, the team has received more than 420 such reports from users across India, with 46 of them confirmed to have explicit content. Around 70% of them had images of the most severe kind, including penetrative sexual assault, and close to 30% featured children between the age of 0 and two years.
 
 Siddharth Pillai, of Mumbai-based   which operates the hotline along with UK-based watchdog   (IWF), said the links are added to a blocking list based on three categories: content showing penetrative sexual assault of a child, non-penetrative sexual assault and pictures of children in sexual poses and other offensive imagery. “We send the link to a team in the UK. The content is examined and then blocked or removed,” he explained. Internet service providers can access this list and deploy it across their services. 
 
 At any given point, IWF has around 3,500 individual web pages in its blocked list. “The sector is highly dynamic with 300 URLs being either added or removed each day. The list is updated twice a day,” said Susie Hargreaves, IWF’s chief executive in an email interview to TOI. Of the 42 web pages reported to Aarambh India, the origin of 22 were traced to the US. Fourteen were from Russia, three from France and one each from Germany and India. While most of these links featured girls, close to 40% of them had both the sexes. Five web pages showed young boys being either sexually assaulted or made to pose sexually deliberately.
 
 In 2016 alone, IWF took action on around 57,300 URLs of child sexual abuse worldwide. The highest number of these sites were traced to the Netherlands, which hosted 37% of them, followed by the US, Canada, France and Russia.
 
 At present, India does not have a centralized mechanism to track online child sexual abuse imageries or pornography. In January this year a UScitizen working with a multi-national law firm in Hyderabad was arrested by the Cyber Crime Wing of Telangana Police, for allegedly downloading and uploading child pornography in the form of videos and images. The action was taken after police received Interpol input of an IP address from which child pornography was being shared. However, this is a one-off case as the Interpol list is not updated frequently.
 
 According to the   data, there were 96 reports of children in India being sexually exploited in online imagery in 2015 -- a rise of 140% from 2014
  
 The Central government is now taking steps to reign in this spawn in the virtual world. It recently issued an order to internet service providers in the country to block the sites listed by IWF. In 2015, the government had banned around 850 sites citing the Supreme Court’s directions to address the menace of child pornography. 
 
 
 
 
