SURAT: The incident of a cow attacking a youth highlights the stray cattle menace on city roads, which has assumed an alarming proportion with Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) cattle cell closing its eyes to the plight of suffering residents. 

 The cattle squad department is headed by Dr Praful Mehta, who is in-charge of other departments like market, Sarthana Zoo and aquarium. He is probably the only officer after municipal commissioner M Thennarasan to head so many departments in the civic body. 
 
 “Time and again, we have demanded appointment of a full-time zoo superintendent and an officer, who is well-trained in the aquarium field. This will ease the burden on a single officer who has been looking after so many departments for the past two decades. A dedicated officer for cattle squad will help in effectively curbing the stray cattle menace,” a   leader said. Stray cows and bulls, squatting right in the middle of roads and streets, have become a common sight with many of them causing road accidents quite often. TOI had recently highlighted the plight of commuters on Surat-Dumas Road, especially travellers boarding flights from Surat airport, in an article published on April 5, 2017.
 
 As per a rough estimate, stray cattle have been causing at least 25 accidents daily in the city since the past few months. Over 50,000 cattle move on the roads at any point of time during the day-the stray cattle are let loose by their owners to graze on leftover food-and that the SMC’s cattle cell department is doing little to stop the menace due to limited staff. 
 
 SMC standing committee on Thursday decided that if cattle of a particular owner are caught repeatedly, then he would be fined heavily and the animals would not be returned to him at all. The fine amount on cattle caught for the fourth time will be Rs1,000, the SMC said, making cattle registration mandatory in the city.
 
 Last year, the civic body had decided to increase the number of its cattle squads to seven from two. This is because the menace has now spread from old city to Vesu, Pal, Adajan, Bharthana, Mota Varaccha and Katargam. SMC officials estimate around 20,000 cows and 30,000 buffaloes on city roads. 
 
 A senior civic officer said, “The cattle are impounded and later their owners pay up fine and we have to release them. Only those whose owners do not turn up are sent to panjrapole. A strict policy under BPMC Act needs to be framed. There is also need to train our men in the cattle squad.” 
 
