MANGALURU: It has been almost seven months since the foundation stone for city’s first   was laid, but the work on the project is yet to start owing to funding problems. The skywalk is a project of   and   (CDA), which will come up near Town Hall with a view to ensuring free flow of traffic, which is getting increasingly impeded on account of pedestrians trying to cross the four-lane road.

 The original project cost as mooted by CDA was Rs 86 lakh. But Mangaluru City South MLA  , after looking at the state of abandoned skywalks in Bengaluru due to its unfriendly nature, proposed that escalators be added on both sides like in New Delhi.
 
 This meant revising the estimates for the project.  , project director, DK Nirmithi Kendra, which will execute the project, said, "The first estimate without escalators was Rs 85 lakh. The revision to add two escalators meant another Rs 70 lakh taking the project cost to Rs 1.56 crore, including fabrication costs. Now we are awaiting administrative sanction from CDA since they have indicated that they have funds only for building skywalk without escalators. The MCC too will also pitch in with five per cent of the project cost."
 
 Rajendra said that escalators will be of exterior grade, which means that they have anti-rust properties plus they will weather Coastal condition better than ordinary escalators. Though the skywalk will be provided with adequate cover to shield it from rain and sun, being exposed to extreme elements means that the escalators have to be sturdy.
 
 The skywalk start point will be inside the taluk panchayat office premises and will end inside Gandhi Park. Rajendra noted that there will be steps provided to the sky walk to enable public move across in case of power failure.
 
 Pradeep D’Souza, secretary, CDA said that the government had given approval for Rs 82 lakh – Rs 78 lakh from CDA and Rs 4 lakh from the MCC. Now as the estimate has been revised, the CDA has sent requisition for additional funds. “We hope the state government will make provision in the ensuing budget,’’ he said.
 
