NOIDA: After a rap from the high court for not being able to deal with the parking mess in the city, the   is in the process of drawing up a   and has ordered a survey. 

 Speaking to TOI, Noida Authority additional CEO   said an intensive survey is under way to identify the problems plaguing the city. “We have completed 70% of the survey, and soon will define the policy. Designated parking spots in various sectors will also be assessed. Our project engineers (PE) are studying layout maps, which will help identify legal parking spots in each sector,” he said.
 
 PEs have been asked to ascertain the number of parking slots each sector requires. “After we have all the data, we will ensure that the required infrastructure is available. Once that is done, no one will be allowed to park on the streets. No contractor will be allowed to operate in these no-parking areas, and their contracts will be cancelled. For example, once the multi-level parking facility is ready in Sector 18, no vehicle will be allowed to park in sector’s streets,” he added.
 
 The ACEO further said that he has asked officials to do a reality check on ongoing parking projects. “I have asked to be informed about their dates of completion and the number of vehicles each facility will house. Once we have compiled all the data, a parking policy will be drawn up and implemented strictly,” Mishra promised.
 
 Currently, there are about 41 authorised parking lots in the city. However, some contractors are running several illegal parking lots encroaching on roads. As a result, thousands of commuters face   congestion daily on the city’s main roads. 
 
 Be it Atta market, Sector 18, Great India Place Mall or any other main road, illegal parking has become a regular feature. Several areas like sectors 55 and 56 and areas along the Noida-Greater Noida expressway that host IT offices are also a nightmare. Film City in Sector 16, which houses several leading media houses, is completely choked with vehicles making smooth traffic movement impossible. 
 
 Other affected areas include Model Town crossing, NIB and Chhijarsi T-points on NH-24, Delhi-Noida road, Rajnigandha Chowk, Gol Chakkar, Mamura Chowk, Labour Chowk, sectors 62, 63, 121 and the service road along NH-24. Commuting through  , the lifeline of Noida,is also an ordeal, especially during peak morning and evening hours.
 
 
