Formula One’s new managing director of motorsports,  , has said he wants to shape the sport into its ultimate version.

 F1’s new management team, comprising president  , Brawn, and his commercial counterpart   were only installed in late January – but are already beginning to plan for the sport’s bright, new future.
 
 Brawn, the mastermind behind Michael Schumacher’s world championships at   and  , and Mercedes’ current dominance, said that he’s looking three to five years ahead – with the best-case scenario in mind.
 
 “[My role is] to find the right solutions to make our sport as great as possible in the future,” said Brawn, alongside Bratches, in a last-minute press conference in Melbourne ahead of Sunday’s curtain raiser.
 
 “And by great, I mean – close racing, healthy teams, true meritocracy of drivers and all the things we know we’d have in the perfect world. And we want to try and build that perfect world.”
 
 The new management team’s approach is a breath of fresh air after former   supremo Bernie Ecclestone’s divide-and-conquer style, the 86-year-old out in January after the sport’s US $8 billion sale to Liberty Media. 
 
 And the new trio’s collaborative, consultative tact is winning hearts and minds up and down the F1 pit-lane, despite an open timeline.
 
 “I think undoubtedly we’ll get involved in the day-to-day issues, Brawn said.
 
 “But for the fundamental changes, we need time for that, because it’s not fair to not go through a proper process with the FIA and the teams to arrive at the right solutions, [or] to implement them so soon they disadvantage someone in terms of their team structure of their investment.” 
 
 Much of future F1 talk centres around the power units, which beyond 2020 are yet to be decided upon, with the current turbo-hybrid V6 engines presenting a number of issues.
 
 “The current engine is a fantastic piece of engineering, but it’s ended up very expensive, [and] very complicated. We see the challenges some of the engine suppliers are facing.
 
 “So what sort of engine do we want for the future? I think when we determine that, then we can start to build the plan around that engine.”
 
 Carey, Brawn and Bratches are currently in Melbourne for F1’s season-opener – the first of F1’s new ‘faster and more furious’ era, the cars featuring much more aggressive styling and wider tyres for quicker lap times.
 
 
