NEW DELHI: As Ram Nath Kovind registered a massive victory over Meira Kumar, Dalit bastis across India erupted in celebrations. Called Vijay Utsav in the north, these programmes brought various slum groups together where people celebrated Kovind’s victory with sweets, music and fire crackers. Largely propelled by  , the events, said party sources, were organised “to celebrate the joy and pride” the community felt over Kovind’s victory.
 
  In Gujarat, tree plantation programmes were organised in the honour of Kovind, who belongs to   (OBCs in Gujarat). Rajesh Chudasama, a BJP leader from the state, said it was a matter of honour for the Koli community that constituted around 20% in Saurashtra. “We have organised havans too. Our party workers are taking part in celebrations across Koli bastis in the honour of Kovindji.”
  
  Kolis in Gujarat , said Chudasama, were mostly fishermen. The state has six MPs from the community, making it electorally important, too, as it is set to face elections in the coming months. BJP’s Dalit leader Bizay Sonkar Shastri said “all Dalit groups not just Kolis” were enthusiastic with Kovind as the President and the party was only joining them in their celebrations. “Kovindji is an educated, nation-loving person who should be a role model for everyone. The   is grateful to BJP for picking him from the choices they had. He rose from a poor background. That is why the community is jubiliant as they can completely relate to him.”
  
  BJP has been attracting Dalits in the last few elections with its pro-poor policies such as gas subsidies and free housing, and a few sub-castes like Pasi, Valmiki and Dhobhi have shown support for the party in many states. RSS, on the other hand, has been working on its “one well, one temple, one crematorium for all castes” to further its no-caste discrimination approach.
  
  To honour  , the Modi government is developing five places as Panchteerth, which include Amedbkar’s birthplace in Mhow; the place in London where he stayed while studying in UK; Deeksha Bhoomi in Nagpur where he took education; ‘Mahaparinirvansthal’ in Delhi; and ‘Chaitya Bhoomi’ in Mumbai. “A section of the society that was oppressed all these years has given us President today. Kovindji has received support from everywhere — from Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Puducherry, etc which are all Congress strongholds.
  
  This was possible only due to the popularity of the PM and parties coming together to support him,” said Bhupendra Yadav, BJP general secretary who was also Kovind’s polling agent.
  
