Bhopal: In three years of journey, city’s Swachh Bharat ranking improved phenomenally — from 106 to the second place and cost the Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) about Rs 20 crore. Much of the effort has been to make a positive impression on survey assessors – on publicity blitz and hardsell. But the civic body of the second cleanest city of the country has to walk the talk on its pledge of developing municipal solid waste (MSW) collection and disposal facility, much of which is still on paper.

 First of the hurdles Bhopal needs to clear is retaining its Swachh Bharat ranking and improving upon it, like in matter of setting up of MSW facility at Adampur. The site on the outskirts of the state capital has been in the news as locals are opposing a proposed abattoir site, which would come up alongside MSW facility. Many locals also opposed construction of MSW at Adampur.
 
 
 Success of SBM in Bhopal was largely an outcome of active participation of resident welfare associations (RWA) and others, said BMC officials. For instance, an important role of a women grouping, Sakaratmat Soch in Indrapuri. About 300 of them were able to better garbage disposal and begin composting waste. They were driven by the campaign to reclaim some 35 parks in the area and 10 of these parks are flourishing with the support of the BMC. 
 
 Applications like Swachh Map (a mobile based application wherein users can report garbage spots with geo-tagged photographs have not been a success and the civic body officers have not been able to shed old habits and adapt new technology. Swaach Map has been effective only in areas like Char Imli where the health officer has been proactive. Orientation of BMC staffers to use such technology has taken time, said a BMC official.
 
 ***
 
 Swach Bharat mission (SBM) BMC has spent about Rs 20 cr since 2015
 
 In first survey, Bhopal stood at 106 spot. In Swachh Survekshan of 2017, ranking improved to second spot 
 
 ***
 
 BMC publicity spend on SBM include 
 
 Mera Pran Bhopal #1 campaign cost the city Rs 3 cr
 
 Rs 12 lakh was spent on day one during launch in private hotel
 
 BMC purchased Rs 2.5 crore worth of badges for publicity
 
 Overall, Rs 71.38 lakh was spent between June 9 – Dec 3 on publicity
 
 White and blue modular toilets, many of which went missing, cost the civic body Rs 6.32 cr. 1,938 modular toilets were placed at 147 places
 
 Wall paintings cost the BMC about Rs 7 lakh
 
 NGO, public groups received about Rs 8 lakh for a slew of activities
 
 ***
 
 Long way to go 
 
 Swachh Bharat budget for BMC: Rs 5 cr
 
 30,000 separate toilets to be built by 2019 
 
 25% population defecates in open and almost 28% population does not have toilets in Bhopal 
 
 Bhopal plans to convert 21 MW of energy from its daily waste of 800 MT. Project should have started in Oct
 
 BMC has yet to impress upon citizens to segregate waste at source (disposable and non-disposable). With 60% of city waste (800 MT per day) disposable, it can be recycled for better use and save the environment
 
 Improve waste processing, disposal
 
 Citizens not convinced a levy of 0.5 % Swachh Bharat cess has improved sanitation, hygiene in city 
 
 Setting up of 10 transfer stations to handle degradable waste still a proposal
 
 Barely 50% of the city has efficient sewage system
 
 Lagging in adhering to municipal solid waste (MSW) rules for management and handling of solid waste
 
 
