TRICHY: Parents of 32 of the 89 girls rescued from the controversial Mose Ministries children home in Trichy whose DNA matched with theirs may not get to unite with their long lost wards before this Pongal. This is because the   made no mention about their reunion with the biological parents in its order dated November 30 last year. 

 “The court order has not made it clear whether our 19-year-old daughter at the home will reunite with us though the DNA test confirmed that we are her biological parents. We need to wait for the information from the district social welfare officer. I have lost hope of bringing our daughter home for Pongal,” said R Kannan from V   near Usilampatti who had given his third daughter to the founder of the home Pastor   due to poverty nearly 17 years ago. 
 
 “We direct that the wishes of these (inmates) girls who have completed 18 years of age shall be ascertained by the director of social welfare department, and if they want to leave the home, the government shall provide financial support, as stated in Section 46 of the Act and allow them to choose their abode according to their choice. If any such girl who has completed 18 years of age wishes to continue to have the protection, she may be kept in any home for destitute run by the government or any other recognized home,” the judgment reads. Though Justices S Nagamuthu and MV Muralidaran passed the order on November 30, 2016, its copy was released only a couple of days ago. “Out of these 89 children, already 82 have completed 18 years of age,” the order reads.
 
 Petitioner in the case Paadam A Narayanan who is director of  , an NGO, termed the latest judgment an injustice to the girls. “Being caged birds, the girls are under Stockholm Syndrome due to emotional abuse and need psychological counselling by a team from NIMHANS as suggested in the interim judgment. Without counselling, the girls may not be in a position to exercise their option of continuing in the home or not, as it will not be an informed decision. In the absence of an assessment by professional medical health personnel, to push the girls out of the security and care of the state will be a great injustice to the girls, in hindsight,” said Narayanan. 
 
 Seven girls were ordered to be kept at Nagammai children’s home at KK Nagar in Trichy. Ironically, some of the girls got their DNA matched with their parents from Usilampatti. In all, the DNA of 32 girls matched with that of 31 parents while the results of tests on nine more girls are awaited. 
 
 “If the court has decided to send the minor girls to another home, why were we made to wait for such a long time even after our DNA matched with our daughter’s,” said M Eswari, 42, from   near Usilampatti who is now residing in Odisha with her family. 
 
 Trichy district administration is yet to receive the copy of the order. However, district collector Dr KS Palanisamy said that they would go by the order of the court. “We will go through the court order and will act based on it,” he told TOI on Tuesday. 
 
 
