CHENNAI: Two months after an inferno razed the   building in T Nagar, commercial superstores in the city's shopping hub still do not have basic fire safety equipment, say officials from the   (TNFRS) department.

 A fire audit team man dated by the Madras high dated by the Madras high court told TOI that not a single commercial building on   and Us man Road in T Nagar had a fire pump facility -a basic requirement in firefighting. “This is not the first audit we have undertaken. We have previously issued caution notices. The situation hasn't changed. Not even a fire extinguisher was found in many buildings,“ a TNFRS officer said on Sat urday.
 
 “The audit was done on 50 buildings whose applications for regularisation had been rejected. It is being monitored by the Madras high court,“ said N Vijayakumar, district fire officer, Chennai South. He added that the depart ment would be conducting a similar audit on residential buildings in T Nagar too.All the buildings were found to resemble sealed containers, officers said.
 
 Firefighting during the Chennai Silks blaze was complicated as the building had little or no ventilation space.Asked why the building owners had sealed ventilation gaps, an officer said it was for setting up centralised air conditioners. “If there is a fire on the fourth floor, there is no way we will be able to reach it,“ he added. This means the commercial behemoths of T Nagar have bet against the lives of customers.
 
 When a fire breaks out, there is only one way out for trapped shoppers the same way that they entered the building. “Though the buildings have more than one stairway , there is no easy passage as the stairs are loaded with goods,“ Vijayakumar said.
 
 When asked if the TNFRS had issued NOCs to the audited buildings, Vijayakumar said most of the buildings did not have one. “We asked them to produce a copy of the   but none of the buildings was able to provide a certificate,“ he said, adding that the findings of the audit would be tabled before the Madras high court within two months.
 
 Secretary of the T Nagar residents welfare association, B Kannan, said commercial establishments in the area were never serious about ensuring safety of the shoppers and residents. “In many cases, the fire safety equipment is nothing more than a showpiece,“ he said.Vijayakumar told TOI that the next course of action would be to issue notices to the building owners. “We will give them 30 to 45 days time to fix fire safety equipment. After that, we will be erecting caution boards in front of the stores,“ he said.
 
