NASHIK: Private clinics and hospitals protesting against the attacks on   and   at medical colleges turned away patients for the second consecutive day on Friday, although emergency services were started.

 Howevever, the   (IMA),  , which is protesting in support of resident doctors, said the doctors affiliated to the association resumed emergency services by Friday afternoon. The out-patient departments (OPDs) would be kept closed until further decision at the state level, it said.
 
 Aniruddha Bhandarkar of IMA, Nashik, said there were many requests from senior officials, including police commissioner Ravinder Kumar Singal and deputy commissioner Laxmikant Patil, to adopt a compassionate attitude towards patients needing emergency treatment. 
 
 “Considering the hardships of patients, we decided to start the emergency services from Friday afternoon.” 
 
 Bhandarkar said the meeting of IMA representatives with the government at the state level was also positive and that a decision on starting the OPD may also be taken anytime now. 
 
 There were isolated cases of patients rushing to private hospitals only to find them closed on Thursday, as well as on Friday morning. The doctors were not present at the hospitals and the other staff were not entertaining patients. 
 
 Some patients told TOI that on seeing the hospitals closed, they had to rely on over the counter medicines from medical shops. “No doctor was available, nor the diagnostic centres were operating,” said a patient. 
 
 Suresh Jagdale, civil surgeon of the Nashik civil hospital, said there was a slight rise in the number of patients compared to the routine rush at the OPD of the hospital. “All arrangements were made to ensure that no patient was turned away due to shortage of beds or doctors.” 
 
 Apart from the medical staff of the hospital, which was asked to do extra work in view of the   by private clinics and hospitals, medical officers of the Rashtriya Bal Suraksha Karyakram (RBSK) were also called to the civil hospital to attend to patients. 
 
 Some of the doctors who run private clinics said they had shown their willingness to treat their patients in the government hospital and a letter in this regard was also given to the civil surgeon. 
 
 Asked about the flow of patients at their OPDs, a private doctor said, “The news about the protests by us and our hospitals not taking patients had spread everywhere. Hence, the issue of turning patients away did not arise.”
 
 Many doctors said that most of the patients at their OPDs came only after calling the hospital to check the availability of doctor and hence they did not have to turn a patient away. Meanwhile, the IMA members organised a march on Friday in protest against the attacks on doctors. Avesh Palod of IMA said that after the protest march, lectures by senior police officials and lawyers were delivered at the IMA hall at Shalimar. 
 
