CHENNAI: The UPA government should have cancelled the 2G spectrum allocations and coal allotments to contain the damage instead of taking the case to the courts, said former Union finance minister   at a public lecture here on Monday. He was speaking on ‘Will India script an uninterrupted growth story?’ Besides corruption, disruptions in the form of religion and nationalism too hit economic growth, said Chidambaram, who was home minister when the scams rocked the UPA regime. 

 “Corruption affects a country’s economic growth. While irregularities in coal allotments affected the coal industry resulting in import of coal to meet its demand from power and other sectors, the 2G spectrum case affected the telecom sector's growth,” said Chidambaram. 
 
 The NDA government, he said, had failed to bring in big ticket economic reforms. Right from 2014, the government was busy focussing its energies on winning assembly elections and with its own agenda, he said. 
 
 “The 2014 budget presented by Union finance minister Arun Jaitley maintained the numbers presented in the interim budget of the UPA government. But, they failed to control the fiscal deficit within 3% even though the interim budget showed that the deficit was on the decline,” said Chidambaram. 
 
 In the first year of the NDA government, there were several disruptions in the form of ‘ghar whapsi’, anti-beef campaign and moral policing, issues that were totally irrelevant to economic growth. In 2015, loss of elections in Delhi and Bihar derailed the government efforts to introduce reforms and in 2016, the incidents in Dadri in Uttar Pradesh, Una in Gujarat and death of Rohit Vemula in Hyderabad hampered growth. 
 
 “Since the 1991 economic reforms, 11 big reforms have been implemented. Since 2014 (after the NDA assumed charge), only one big reform can be named and that is the introduction of goods and services tax (GST), which the BJP opposed tooth and nail when UPA introduced it,” said Chidambaram. 
 
 Stating that the government has not addressed the problem of non-performing assets (NPA) of banks,   said similar problems occurred between the years 2002 and 2007 and bankers were given powers to recover the money. “But now the bankers are threatened and due to this the bank credit to industries has witnessed a negative growth,” said Chidambaram. 
 
 The NDA government was hit by scams like Vypam, ONGC investment in a Gujarat oil company and finally demonetisation, he said. “The government’s objectives on demonetisation have not been achieved and economic growth has been revised repeatedly,” he said. 
 
 
