BHIWANDI: Three boys have been rescued from their 150 sq ft home where they had been kept confined for six years by their father, paranoid since his wife left him. They had been taken off school and would be let out only twice a year - during Ramzan and Bakri Eid. 

 They are being treated for calcium deficiency and vision problems and doctors suspect they are suffering from mental trauma because of the long incarceration.
 
 Rehan, 15, Rehman, 13, and Ajaz, 11, were rescued on Thursday in Bhiwandi after neighbours took pity on their condition and filed a police complaint against their father, 55-year-old Sayyed Khan.   have begun recording the neighbours' statements.
 
 Asked why he had kept the kids under house arrest, Khan first said: "My wife left home six years ago and I've always feared that she would kidnap the children in my absence." 
 
 Later, he said whenever he would take his sons out, they would feel disheartened on seeing other children's mothers and ask him for theirs. This made him lock them up. Khan worked as an autorickshaw driver. For the past year, he has been employed at a shop.
 
 Once the couple separated, he forced Rehan, then a student of Class V, and Rehman, a student of Class IV, to leave school. He fed the three "inferior food" bought from a local supplier, who charged Rs 30 for a meal of 10 chappatis, dal and curry.
 
 The neighbours first took up the issue with  , a former corporator. On Thursday, Qureshi and the locals landed up at Khan's residence. On entering the smelly house, they spotted the three children sitting listlessly in three corners. They appeared malnourished and could not stand or see properly.
 
 Qureshi said she suspected Khan had threatened the children against reporting the harassment to the neighbours. She added that they admitted to not having stepped out of their home for six years.
 
 "I barely saw the children, except during festivals," said a neighbor. Others said they sometimes saw the children standing behind the door of their home and look wistfully at the road outside. They would vanish inside on spotting their father.
 
 The children have been admitted to   in Bhiwandi. "The children are facing severe health problems, including calcium deficiency and mental issues," said Dr  , chief medical officer. She added the children will need psychiatric counselling.
 
 "My brother is very rude and never listens to us. Ever since his wife left, he has never allowed us to visit his home," Khan's elder brother told TOI. Whenever he tried to visit, Khan would lose his temper and once even assaulted him. Khan's close friend, too, said whenever he would request him to take his sons out, he would warn him against interfering in his personal life.
 
 Raza Academy, a local NGO, has come forward to take care of the children's education. "When we asked them, the children said they want to study further. We will bear their educational expenses," said Shakeel Raza, secretary.
 
 Their neighbours have demanded that the government look after the children to protect them from Khan. "Handing over the children to their father would be dangerous," said one.
 
 "Our team is probing the case. The children's father will be booked if found guilty," said Manoj Patil, deputy police commissioner, Bhiwandi zone of Thane police.
 
