

 Most people had been saving money ever since the concert was announced and expected value for the high ticket amount they paid. So when the Canadian singer took stage and started belting out one hit after the other, fans went into a tizzy. That was until he took a water break. “I didn’t realise he had been lip-syncing until he took the water break and the song kept playing in the background. This disappointed me the most. I paid `5000 for the tickets to watch him sing live! But him lip-syncing was unfair,” says Minal Patole, a student who attended the show. 
 
  
  
 As if the lip-sync wasn’t enough, many youngsters who had bought the general and silver tickets had to feel happy seeing their star on the big screens placed at the concert. “The ground was over-crowded and people were to catch a glimpse of Bieber. We, however, could only see him on the big screens and not on stage. I think the management could have been better,” says Esha Agarwal, a model. Esha also found the energy of the singer low. “Only the teenagers were enjoying. I could see no one around me dancing; all were busy taking pictures to post on social media. When you compare that to performers like Coldplay, who were able to captivate the crowd, you are bound to be a little disappointed,” she shares.
 
  
 
  
 But there were others from the city who had a gala time at the concert. From handwritten placards to customised outfits, Pune’s Beliebers were in high spirits at the event. Some of them even arrived as early as 10 am and waited at the stadium to see their star play live. “He is an amazing performer. I absolutely love him and wanted to make sure I wasn’t late for the concert because of traffic, so I went to the venue really early. I used up all my savings for purchasing the ticket and it was totally worth it. The best moment was when he sang Cold Water and Mark my words and played the guitar all by himself,” says Nilaj Kohtikar, a student of Dr. Kalmadi Shamarao High School. Another Symbiosis College student, Saniya Prasad, echoed similar sentiments. “It was a dream come true for me. When he sang Boyfriend and the crowd joined in, I felt the visit had paid off,” she says.
 Love him or hate him, but you cannot ignore Bieber, feels Chaitanya Deshpande, a freestyle footballer who attended the concert. “I had been saving money since the time the news about him performing in India broke and the performance was amazing. There was a thunderous applause when he got on the stage. I saw him play the guitar and even dance, so all the efforts were worth it,” says Deshpande, who had booked an early bird ticket. “Besides costly water bottles and people littering the ground, the concert was perfect,” he adds.
 
  
  
 While Bieber left for South Africa immediately after the concert, those who attended the concert were prey to huge traffic snarls. Prasad Vaidya, who was at the concert, informs, “Overall, it was a fantastic experience. It was a bit crowded but the security personnel and police managed the event really well. The only setback was that the roads were jam packed for close to an hour after the concert got over.” 
  
  
 
