HUBBALLI: The services of   (KUWSDB) in the twin cities will come to an end in May.

 Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services (IL&FS) Ltd will take over water supply services under the name of ‘Shalmala’. The private company has been awarded the contract for 12 years in Hubballi-Dharwad. 
 
 According to sources, the formalities of the agreement have been completed between IL&FS and the state government. The private company has already started its activities in Neharu Nagar, Gokul road, Samnati Nagar, Police Head Quarters, Bharathi Nagar and   of Dharwad for supplying drinking water 24x7. 
 
 However, Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) and Karnataka Urban Development Infrastructure Finance Corporation (KUDIFC) will be in charge of the private company.
 
 Major Siddalingayya Hiremath, commissioner of HDMC said that, after serving for more than 15 years, the service of KUWSDB will be ended on May 15 of this year. The government has allocated another nodal agency for maintaining and supplying water to the twin cities. This private company will work in the name of ‘Shalmala’ and HDMC has already given its approval to the agency during its general body meeting recently. 
 
 ‘But it’s not announced officially yet, KUWSDB board will be changed to ‘Shalmala’ after the company takes over the project’ he added. He clarified that IL&FS will take charge in June. 
 
 Although KUWSDB’s period will end on May 15, due to the need to solve a few technical problems and to prevent any confusion involved in collecting water bills and recovering pending bills, ‘KUWSDB will recover water bills up to June, after that IL&FS will operate the drinking water supply activities in the city,’ said Hiremath. 
 
 ‘Currently 8 wards are getting drinking water 24x7, out of 67, on a pilot project in the first phase in Hubballi-Dharwad, while work has completed in 19 wards to extend the 24x7 water scheme. Furthermore, 80 percent of the work has been completed in 20 wards by KUDIFC, informed an officer from KUDIFC who did not wish to be named.
 
 He added that the third phase of the 24x7 drinking water supply project work will end in December 2017, and the whole project will be completed by 2022. “IL&FS will work under HDMC and also KUDIFC for the next 12 years, it will give good service to the people,” he hoped.
 
