JAIPUR: A   of over 700 people gathered by noon outside the office of the   at Bhim in  . People from across 35 villages protested that they had not been granted any work under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act ( ) since January this year. Just about a fortnight ago, a large crowd had gathered to protest that not only were they being denied work, they were being told to return payment earlier made to them.

 On Thursday, Kamladevi from Dhorela, Kelidevi from Kumharnada, Dhanni Devi of Kunwaron Ki Kankar and Sita Devi from Jassakhera, all from Bhim block, said that they had attempted to apply for NREGA work but local functionaries would not accept applications. 
 
 Last year under directives from the Supreme Court, the government had extended the number of days for which a household could avail work under the rural employment guarantee scheme to 150 days in place of the regular 100, in villages declared drought-hit. This extension was meant only for villages declared drought-hit but since the software is managed in the national capital, it opened up even villages not declared drought-hit. Once this mistake was discovered, the state issued a notification penalizing officials who had offered extra days of work in areas where such work had not been provided for. Officials in turn attempted to squeeze money back from poor labourers. 
 
 On Wednesday, secretary rural development Rajeev Thakur clarified in a notification that no penalties would be imposed; also, in Baran and Udaipur, in regions inhabited by backward groups, an additional 100 days of work – a total of 200 days – would be made available under NREGA. 
 
 At Bhim, however, development officer Prakash Saraswat said, “The provision was for 150 days of work. That is now over.” According to the MGNREGA website accessed on Thursday, only 2,807 families in Bhim have completed 100 days of work this year; in several drought-hit villages, people would be eligible for 150 work days. 
 
 Mukesh Nirvasit of Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sanghatan said, “It is not as if the people gathered are demanding work over and above 150 days for this financial year. Many have not even got the full 100 days. The BDO seems quite poorly acquainted with reality on the ground. No one sitting in dharna is demanding more than there is already provision for, under law.”
 
 Families dependent on the unskilled labour have faced the squeeze as no fresh works have been undertaken under NREGA since January this year in several parts of Rajasthan. Reports of no work have arrived from Baran district too, where backward communities have been granted 200 days of MNREGA work.
 
 
