  : On Day One of II  , 8,644 of the 8,825 students who were to write biology paper attended in the first session. In the other session of history paper, 12,394 of 13,372 students took the exam. There were no reports of  . In all, 36,910 students are writing the exams at in the 50 centres in the district. 

 Speaking to TOI, DDPU (Mysuru) Jayaprakash said: “Biology and history sessions saw 181 and 979 students absent. Exams at all centres went off peacefully. To curb malpractices, 12 squads, including flying squads, sitting squads and mobile squads, have been formed. They paid surprise visits to the centres. The question papers, which were kept at the district treasury, were dispatched to various taluks only after 6am under tight security.” According to students’ feedback, “both the papers were easy”.
 
 Due to lack of sleep and exam fear, a student fainted while writing the exam. Preetham of Sadvidya PU College, who did not have enough sleep on Wednesday night, passed out while writing the biology exam at Vijaya Vittala PU College.
 
 Vijaya Vittala College principal H Satya Prasad said: “After our invigilator found Preetham unconscious at 12.15pm, we gave him first-aid and alerted the DDPU and Saraswathipuram police. He was later shifted to Kamakshi Hospital for treatment. If he feels dissatisfied with his marks, he can improve on them in supplementary exams which will be held some weeks after the main exam results are announced.”
 
 “Such incidents happen if students fail to catch enough sleep and have food before the exam. They should be calm before the exam, especially on the eve. Ahead of exams every year, we teach students 20 points which can ensure success. These sessions instil confidence among students,” Prasad added. 
 
 Dr Kemparaju, who treated Preetham at the hospital, said: “If students lack proper sleep and food, they suffer from a disorder called ‘Syncope’. There was variation in blood pressure when he was brought here. He admitted to being short of sleep and food. On the eve of exams, students should have at least six hours of sleep, and have proper food. If not, their efforts of an entire year may go waste.” 
 
 After treatment, he was discharged on Thursday afternoon. 
 
 
