NEW DELHI: In a curious case, a senior law officer of the central government has been appearing against it in the Delhi high court to defend a man accused of filing a fake affidavit in a property dispute.

 Additional solicitor-general of India for  , P S Patwalia, is appearing as a senior advocate in the case being heard by Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva in the high court.
 
 The matter relates to a bungalow in Sundar Nagar, central Delhi, whose sale has seen several rounds of litigation in the high court as well as the Supreme Court in past three decades, ultimately ending in the sale permission being cancelled by the Land & Development Office -the lessor of the property . The ASG has contested a policy decision of L&DO, strongly defended in court by a central government standing counsel.
 
 L&DO falls under the Union ministry of urban development. In this case, the agency has not only cancelled the sale but recently also lodged a police complaint against the ASG's private client for allegedly filing a fake affidavit at the time of the attempted purchase, to mask his ineligibility due an existing government policy .
 
 Justice Sachdeva posted the case for Monday when he will consider if a criminal complaint can be quashed in civil proceedings under section 151of CrPC, as argued by the ASG.
 
 Even as the suit continued, one of the owners of the property filed an RTI with the law ministry last year, asking if it had granted permission to the ASG to appear for a pri vate person in this case. As per the owner, Kanta Gupta, the ministry answered that “no such request has been received“ prompting her to write a complaint to the Union law minister and secretary.
 
 But when   contacted Patwalia, he brushed aside any charge of impropriety and maintained he had permission from the government to appear in the matter.“I have permission, I don't want to discuss this further,“ he said but didn't respond to requests for a copy of the permission. Incidentally, the law minis try has uploaded on its website the Law Officers (Conditions of Service) Rules including latest circulars.Rule 8 clearly restricts a law officer from holding briefs in any court for any party except the   or the government of a state or any university, government school or college, local authority etc.
 
 The rule prohibits law of ficers from giving legal advice to any party against UOI or a PSU. A subsequent Rule 10 gives the government power to relax the restriction in a compelling situation and allow a law officer to defend a private person. However, even that relaxation can't be extended to a case if UOI is a party in it, rules specify.
 
 Soon after coming to power in 2014, the   government had advised its law officers to adhere to the rules. In a letter addressed to attorney general of India, solicitor gen eral and ASGs, the law secretary had noted, “In spite of above instructions, requests from law officers seeking permission to appear in private cases are being received in routine manner. Sometimes, the number of requests is so large it tends to take away a sizable amount of time of law officers in private matters and in the process, their prime attention in defending government cases suffers.“
 
 Former and current law officers TOI spoke with also maintained that a law officer is not permitted to appear against the government.
 
