NEW DELHI: All eyes will be on the   in Uttarakhand as votes are counted for the assembly elections. 

 Chief minister   faces a tough political challenge from the BJP as he seeks mandate for another term in office.
 
 Harish Rawat has led a challenging   campaign in the state with several party MLAs switching sides to the BJP.
 
 Most of the exit polls have predicted huge BJP gains in the state.
 
 The News 24 - Today's Chanakya predicts 53 seats for the BJP and 15 for the Congress. The India Today Axis exit poll gives 46-53 seats to the BJP while the Congress is projected to win 12-21 seats. The exit poll done by India New-MRC projects 38 seats for the BJP and 30 for the Congress.
 
 Only one exit poll done by CVoter predicts a photo finish in the state. CVoter has projected 32 seats each for both the Congress and the BJP.
 
 A total of 15 counting centres have been set up across Uttarakhand and deployment of security personnel and counting personnel made as per specifications of the Election Commission.
 
 There are a total of 70 assembly seats in Uttarakhand from where main power contenders Congress and BJP have fielded their candidates.
 
 With a number of Congress turncoats trying their luck as BJP candidates this time it will be interesting to watch what happens in constituencies like Narendranagar, Bajpur, Roorkee, Khanpur, Kedarnath, Kotdwar, Sitarganj and Nainital from where erstwhile Congress rebels or their wards have been fielded by the saffron party.
 
 Barring Amrita Rawat and  , all the Congress turncoats who are also sitting MLAs, have been fielded by the BJP.
 
 However Amrita's husband Satpal Maharaj and Bahuguna's second son Saurav Bahuguna are in the fray as BJP nominees.
 
 Chaubattakhal from where BJP's Satpal Maharaj is in the fray and Kichcha and Haridwar (rural) the two seats from where chief minister Harish Rawat is seeking a second term, will also evoke much curiosity.
 
 It will also be interesting to see what happens in Sahaspur from where PCC president Kishore Upadhaya is contesting.
 
 Ranikhet is important as state BJP president and Leader of Opposition Ajay Bhatt is contesting from there whereas Dhanolti holds much interest as Congress is supporting independent nominee Pritam Singh Panwar from the seat despite fielding Manmohan Mall from there.
 
