On a day when the   hit a record high, there was a spanner in the works, in the form of a technical glitch that hit   or the National Stock Exchange through morning trade. "Due to technical reasons in the cash market, trading has been stopped in cash and F&O (futures and options) segment of the NSE," the exchange said.

 However, at 12:30 pm, trade finally resumed after being shut for almost the entire morning session. Some dealers said they were still facing some issues in the cash market.
 
 NSE said cash markets were operating normally, while acknowledging that there was a "display issue" that dealers said was limiting their ability to place trades.
 
 Market regulator Sebi or the Securities and Exchange Board of India said, it was in touch with NSE and was closely monitoring the system.
 
 Price quotations for individual stocks and indexes failed to update earlier. NSE’s interim CEO (chief executive officer) J Ravichandran said the bourse was working to resolve the "technical glitch".
 
 The technical problem on individual stocks affected traders from the start of Monday's session, preventing them from placing trades, multiple dealers said.
 
 NSE’s stock indexes updated when trading opened but stopped soon after. Futures and options began trading normally initially, but the NSE has stopped providing quotes, dealers said.
 
 "At this point our focus is to re-start the market and then we will have to analyse the cause," Ravichandran had said after the bourse had to shut operations.
 
 NSE's rival, BSE Ltd, said its exchange was operating normally. The benchmark BSE index rose as much as 0.77 percent to a record high, surpassing its previous milestone hit on June 22.
 
 Indian stock exchanges have previously suffered from occasional trading disruptions, however, they have been quickly resolved.
 
 NSE tried unsuccessfully to re-open trading around 11 am, but failed to fix the “technical” issues.
 
 NSE is the newer of the two bourses in India, and sees over 80 per cent of the trades in the equity cash and equity derivatives market on its platform. BSE, which is Asia’s oldest stock exchange, in comparison, controls 14 per cent of the trades.
 
 (With agency inputs)
 
 
 
 
 
