AHMEDABAD: The anti-terrorist squad, probing the Rs 270 crore ephedrine seizure case, has found striking evidence linking Ahmedabad boy turned international drug mafia Vicky Goswami to a drug trafficking racket run with help from  , the son of former MLA Bhavsinh Rathod. Kishoresinh was nabbed from Boro village on the Rajasthan-MP border recently.

 It also came to light that the drug processed at the Ahmedabad factory was to be transported to Kenya concealed in gunny sacks of bajra (pearl millet). Goswami is married to former Bollywood actress   and his now based in Kenya. 
 
 ATS sources said Manoj Jain, who owned   in Solapur had run up immense losses, forcing him to shut operations.
 
 “Jain who knew Jay Mukhi of Ahmedabad, who had an import license, told Mukhi about his problems. Mukhi lent him some part of the money but then told him that he could emerge from his losses if the huge stock of ephedrine in was made into narcotic drugs,” said a senior ATS official.
 
 Mukhi then told his friend Rathod about the deal. “Rathod in turn decided to take the help of his childhood friend and international drug mafia Vicky Goswami,” added an ATS official. ATS sources said the three of them then went to Kenya and met Goswami at   in Mombasa. “Goswami assured Jain that he would pay him Rs 60 crore, but demanded the ephedrine stock in his factory in return. Goswami also told Jain that he would also get a share of the profit from the sale of methamphetamine, made from the ephedrine in Kenya. Jain agreed to the deal and on returning sent ephedrine worth Rs 270 crore, which was to be processed at the Ahmedabad factory owned by  ,” added an ATS official.
 
 ATS sources said the ephedrine was transported by a truck in July 2016 to the factory on the outskirts of Ahmedabad. “Here Kacha, a chemical engineer, was to process the ephedrine. The drug was then to be transported to Kenya through a Gujarat port, hidden in gunny sacks containing bajra. Before that could happen, crime branch raided that factory and seized the drug,” said an ATS official.
 
