VISAKHAPATNAM: High sound pollution and   are the one of the top complaints from the people in the city to the police. 

 The police and Greater   Municipal Corporation ( ) claim high number of incidents are due to lack of awareness and need for ‘behavioural change’.
 
 Sources at the control room in the city police commissionerate said nearly 40 per cent of the complaints through the city police WhatsApp number - 9493336633 - is about sound pollution and traffic congestions in primary areas of the core city. The police WhatsApp number was launched in January 1 this year in the city and since then it received nearly 117 complaints till March 19. 
 
 Citizens lodge complaints by sending photos or videos to the WhatsApp number. The police register the complaint and transfer it to the concerned police station and alert the circle inspector of the police station through wireless or mobile. The inspector then deputes subordinate staff including sub-inspectors to visit the spot for enquiry. Citizens complaint about sound pollution in the name of religious practices, prayers and public party programmes like marriages at Seethammadhara, Dwarakanagar and Maddilapalem. 
 
 Complaints against the traffic problems come from Fourth Town and Three Town traffic police limits. The areas include RK Beach, MVP Colony, Maddilapalem, Isukathota and Siripuram Junction, the police said. Speaking to TOI, Three Town sub-inspector from traffic wing, S Bhaskara Rao said due to street vendors and hawkers and road side food stalls, there are alot of parking problems in the city. 
 
 “We have a right to impose a case under Town Nuisance Act and send the offenders to court. But only GVMC has the sole right to permanently remove the roadside stalls and shops. We forward such cases to the GVMC zonal commissioners and they also responded well,” Bhaskara Rao said. The GVMC people cleared unauthorised food stalls and hawkers at Waltair Club, Beach Road, opposite Park Hotel and some other locations in the city, he said. 
 
 The police WhatsApp number was launched in January 1 this year in the city and since then it received nearly 117 complaints till March 19 
 
