PUNE: Techie Amit Kulkarni (35) said after casting his vote he was totally confused about the changed polling pattern in the four-candidate ward system.

 The presiding officer at a booth in NIBM post office explained him the process, but he was still  . He said he preferred the old system of one-ward-one-vote.
 
 Kulkarni was not the only. Many voters were in haze about the system on the day of polling.
 
 “What do you do when you are totally unfamiliar with the names?” asked Shabnam Sheikh, a homemaker. A few others claimed a different colour for each group did not help much.
 
 Voters in slums were earlier misguided by leaders, who told them they would have to vote for “one symbol” in all the four groups of a ward. They were not aware that they had a choice.
 
 Munira Sodawalla said after exercising her franchise she was not sure if she had voted for the persons she wanted to.
 
 Political groups feel the four-candidate ward system could emerge as a decider.
 
 A political party worker at a booth said voters knew some of the candidates because parties had been campaigning mostly on the lines of voting for the party rather than the candidate. They did so because of less time to campaign.
 
 To Baba Waghere, four-corporator ward system made no sense. “Why should they keep changing the system of voting?” he asked.
 
 Many citizens took more time to vote under the new system. Polling officers in Kasarwadi and Pimple Saudagar said voters had to be explained and senior citizens took more time as compared to the youngsters in exercising their franchise. “Presiding officers had to help us out,” said the voters in the area.
 
 Sixty-year-old Lalasaheb Nimbalkar said he wanted to cast his vote for individuals and not for parties. But he had to change his mind because of the new system.
 
 Homemaker Shobha Shendge from the Chikhli area said the system was confusing. “It was easier for those voting for a single party, but things were difficult for people wanting to vote for different parties. It will affect the overall voting percentage,” she said.
 
 There was a sweet surprise in the   area, where voters told polling officers they knew that they had to cast four votes.
 
 Sunita Huge, a maid said, “During the campaign, the candidates had come with dummy sheets displaying the EVM and explained how we have to vote for four candidates. So, there was no confusion in my mind. I quickly located the candidates I wished to vote for.”
 
