CHENNAI: With falling freight revenues, the coffers of Southern Railway are not ringing with cash. And despite a dip in earnings, major capacity addition projects like doubling of lines have been allocated funding under Extra Budgetary Resources (EBR) by the railway ministry in the latest budget. The move is likely to push the zone further into a debt trap as most of these projects have a negative rate of return, say senior officials.

 EBR funding for the railways is derived from the Rs1.5 lakh crore loan taken from  . As with loans, it has to be paid back to the lender at a 7.8% rate of interest. Initially, the ministry had decided that only projects which were deemed to have a high rate of return were supposed to get EBR funding, the official said.
 
 Major doubling projects like   fourth line which is crucial to ease train delays on the   suburban line, Chengalpet-Villupuram, Villupuram-Dindigul, Madurai-Maniyachi-Tuticorin and Thiruvananthapuram-Kanyakumari have got EBR funds.
 
 “EBR funding is erratic and unreliable. Many railway projects have been delayed because of it,” a senior official in the construction department said.
 
 Top officials say such projects compound financial burden. Financial experts in the railways say EBR funds should not be used for projects which take a long time to complete. “Doubling projects require land acquisition which is a problem in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. This delays the project and pushes up costs,” a financial officer said.
 
 The Sengottai-Punalur and Pollachi-Pothanur gauge conversion, conversion of Tambaram station as coaching terminal, Chennai Beach-Attipattu third and fourth line are some of the works which have not yet been completed mainly because of funding issues, the senior official said.
 
 Data released by the railways shows that EBR funding for doubling projects in   is to the tune of Rs 900 crore. Compared to this, the regular funding from railway pool is less than Rs 100 crore. This comes when the zone is bleeding money. Its freight earnings for FY17 will be Rs 2,682 crore which is Rs 134 crore less than FY16. The operating ratio for FY17 is 143.2, which is nine points higher than FY16. An operating ratio greater than 100 means that the zone is making losses. Also, Southern Railway is the second-worst performer among 16 zones of Indian Railways. The rating was done by Railway Board between April and December 2016 based on 17 key performance indicators.
 
