GURUGRAM: This city’s   lovers might forever be cursing their lot, but   and   are more blessed. 

 This week, Gurgaon Police and Amity University announced arrangements for the Amity Gurgaon Half Marathon, scheduled to be held next weekend (a route map of the event was also released by the organisers). 
 
 Earlier this month, EDM star Eric Prydz’s gig had to be cancelled after imposition of Section 144 (CRPC), which restricts assembly of five or more people. Section 144 had been invoked due to the ongoing Jat agitation in Haryana. The order had originally been for only four days (January 27 to 30), but was extended indefinitely. However, indications are that the restrictions will be lifted by the time the half marathon comes to town on February 26, which will come as a relief for Gurgaon’s growing community of recreational runners.
 
 Prydz had been inked in to perform at the Huda grounds on February 12. But the decision to not go ahead with the concert is just the latest setback to the city’s aspirations to host international artistes. While Guns N’ Roses performed without a glitch in late 2012, the much-hyped Metallica gig of a year before was cancelled at the last minute, following chaos at the venue (and the metal-rock band’s reported unhappiness at the stage’s dimensions).
 
 In 2015, unseasonal rain led to the postponement of alt-J’s show (which was later held in Delhi), while general disorder and an unexplained death clouded Skrillex’s visit to Gurgaon the same year. And the Jat agitation in 2016 cost Gurgaonites a chance to enjoy EDM triumvirate Major Lazer.
 
 But when it comes to the city’s favourite pastime, no such misfortune. More than 12,000 participants – including around 2,000 children from government and private schools – are expected to converge at the Leisure Valley grounds. Some 1,000 of the runners will cover the entire 21 kilometres, with the rest taking part in the smaller, ‘fun’ runs, of 5 and 10 kilometres. 
 
 The city police, in association with the event partners, is encouraging citizens to come together to promote road safety, and security for all residents, include women, children and senior citizens. 
 
 For the runners, the joy of hitting the road will be music to the ears. Music buffs, meanwhile, will be hoping for better luck next time.
 
 
