NEW DELHI: After an exhausting day of marching with the Ganga on their shoulder, the kanwariyas would be grateful just to have some basic needs addressed: water, palatable food, a durrie to sleep on perhaps. But no, what awaits them at the camps dotting the capital is nothing short of lavish.
 
 “I used to go past Sonepat to Jhajjar and then to Rewari, but the Delhi route means you are better rested and you get more facilities,” testified Jitender Lakhra, a Haridwar-Rewari yatri. He added happily, “The camps keep getting better every year and each one wants to outdo the other.”
  
 This year, Delhi government has funded 116 camps, tying up with registered NGOs to organise these stop-overs. There are several others put up by private companies, making for around 150 altogether. At these camps the weary kanwariyas can rejuvenate themselves with freshly squeezed fruit juices, jaljeera and lassi and then partake of an enviable array, whether it is breakfast, lunch or dinner.
  “We have spared no expenses to ensure the kanwariyas are well rested and well fed,” said a volunteer at Mayapuri Kanwar Sangh near Karol Bagh as he handed out fresh kiwi and grapes. The pradhan of the camp, Sunil Goel, said that kanwariyas who had run out of money were even provided financial assistance. “We give from Rs 100 to 500, as the need of the   may be. We look at the water carrier as a form of God,” said Goel.
 
  In addition to the plenteous food, the camps have doctors in attendance and medicines to take care of most ailments. “A doctor and an assistant are available here 24 hours. The health problems range from blisters on the feet to fatigue, but some of the devotees also have dehydration, bad stomach and high fever due to infected bruises,” said Tarul Bala, a medical aide at a Delhi government camp in Pandav Nagar, east Delhi.
  
 Most of these camps, however, didn’t have designated sleeping areas for women, which could explain the low number of women yatris. “There are separate changing rooms for women, but they often sleep in a common area with their families. Some women don’t feel secure in common camps and prefer not to take part in yatras,” Ram Bhushan, a kanwariya, pointed out.
  
 The   is so popular that people come forward to help the devotees in places where there is no trust or NGO to support them. In Nehru Nagar in south Delhi, people have joined hands to organise a camp. Some donated vegetables, some rice, while others contributed money to run the camp. “We have been doing this for five years,” said Ram Kishore Saini, a caretaker at the camp.
 
  Toilets are a big concern. Many camps got mobile toilets installed; others requested petrol pumps nearby to allow the kanwariyas to use their facilities. There is an occasional hitch. “Delhi government sent us a mobile toilet, but its doors are locked and nobody can use it,” said a sheepish Saini at Nehru Nagar.
