A young couple walks into a dispensary tucked away in the by lanes of Karwan in Old City. They spend a few minutes with a gynaecologist and walk out with a pack of oral contraceptive pills. A few kilometres away in Bahadurpura, a social worker takes a middleaged woman to a government hospital for an intrauterine device (IUD) implant.

 Unlike before, modern fam ily planning methods are no longer taboo for a vast majority of Muslims, and this has borne results. The decadal population growth for the Hyderabad revenue district, which has a substantial Muslim population, has dropped to 2.97% from 21.74% in two decades (Telangana's decadal growth rate is 13.58%). The fall is a direct consequence of a decline in the fertility rate, which, along with the death rate, accounts for total population growth.
 
 Figures from various sources, including the National Family Health Survey III, Osmania Medical College, and the  , show that the fertility rate has dropped in the   . While four to five years ago the fertility rate for the community was 2.21, now it is 1.9.
 
 Social activists say family planning has made the difference. They attribute this to increased assertiveness among   about their rights and enhanced health consciousness.
 
 “There has been a fall in the average size of a Muslim family in Hyderabad in the last 14 years,“ says Jameela Nishat, founder-executive director, Shaheen Women's Resource and Welfare Association. “In 2002, a Muslim family on an average comprised six children.Today , it is three. Younger couples are opting for even two.“
 
 Falling family size is also due to girls pursuing education and delaying marriage. “The average age at which girls grad uate now is 22. Educated Muslim girls are no longer getting married at 17,“ said Syed Fazil Hussain Parvez, who edits the Urdu weekly Gawah.
 
 Another key reason for the fertility rate drop is an improvement in the community's socio economic condition, says Dr Fakhruddin Mohammad, a senior physician and secretary of the Muslim Educational, Social and Cultural Organisation (MESCO). “Employment opportunities have increased in the last 10 years, with a consid erable number of Muslims now working in the IT sector.“
 
 Dr Fakhruddin says many Muslims practice reversible methods of family planning such as oral contraceptives, but educationist B Moinuddin says sterilisation too is catching up.
 
