NEW DELHI: Away from the congested road leading to the “Panchayat Ghar” in southwest Delhi’s Chhawla village is a vast expanse of agricultural  , which reveals the story of Delhi’s farmers. 

 Most villagers don’t understand the land pooling policy recently notified by the government and there are rumours doing the rounds that land sharks in the garb of developers are trying to taking over their land.
 
 As this correspondent walked through a narrow road with farmlands on both sides, an ageing   walked up to ask what would happen to his land now. “We are from the SC community and my mother Saraswati Devi got this one-acre plot under the Prime Minister’s 20-point programme in 1988. Though I have a job, our whole family survives on the food we grow here. Hope I don’t have to give up my land,” he said. 
 
 He pointed at a government installed tubewell and his tractor to assert that farming was real for him and he had no intentions of giving it up. Like many others, Om Prakash too had heard that CM   was coming to their village to speak on land pooling policy. The farmers had started gathering at the venue hoping that Kejriwal would clear their doubts.
 
 Vijay Kumar Chauhan, who leads an organisation working for the rights of people given land under the 20-point programme, was quick to hand over his petition to the CM when he arrived in the village around 5.30pm. Chauhan told TOI that in Chhawla village alone, there were 107 acres of land allotted under the 20-point programme allotted to people from SC/ST community, widows and those from the marginalised section.
 
 Rajinder Singh, another resident, claimed that no one had so far explained them the implications of the land pooling policy. “Not all of us own acres of land. So what happens if our land comes in the middle of a bloc of land that others may decide to pool? Who will give us the correct answer,” he asked.
 
 Recalling past cases, the residents expressed concern over the urbanisation scheme. A person cited the case of Nasirpur village, which was urbanised in 2002. “My village was urbanised but it still lacks basic facilities,” a farmer rued.
 
 After the Delhi CM left assuring them of “economic growth and job” once land pooling becomes a reality, some farmers expressed their discontent over lack of information over the matter.
 
 
