MUMBAI: The BJP on Tuesday in its manifesto promised that it would initiate an inquiry into projects to the tune of Rs 20,000 crore signed under the public-private partnership (PPP) model in the last 20 years by the BMC.

 The inquiry will be conducted by a retired high court judge. The manifesto also assured that an Upa-Lokayukta will be appointed to address probity issues. “As many as 950 agreements have been signed under the PPP model with various institutions related to hospitals attached with private medical colleges, schools, dispensaries, open spaces and building proposal department projects.The BJP will set up an inquiry of these under a retired HC judge,“ said Mumbai BJP unit chief  .
 
 The BJP's manifesto was released by chief minister   and promised a slew of sops for Mumbaikars such as 24-hour water supply , no hike in water charges, pothole-free roads and a crackdown on illegal banners, free wi-fi service and 24-hour garbage collection. The party assured Mumbaikars that it will fulfil all promises in the next five years, if it is voted to power with a thumping majority . The manifesto proposes to amend the BMC Act 1888 to make it mandatory for BMC officers, employees and contractors to disclose their assets annually . Shelar said that the law will be amended to apply the provisions of Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) against those colluding with the cartels of contractors. “In every six months, Mumbaikars will get a booklet wherein all works, budgetary provisions, projects to be completed, under-construction projects, proposed works, names of contractors, implementing officers will be listed.This will help citizens keep tabs on projects,“ he added.
 
 “This manifesto is an extension of Modiji's vision,“ said Fadnavis. Fadnavis also challenged the bickering ally in the state government, to tackle him first, before speaking about Prime Minister Modi holding a rally in Mumbai, ahead of BMC polls.“(Tackling) PM is a distant thing. First (let Sena) tackle me,“ Fadnavis said responding to a question. Taking a dig at Modi for giving “false“ assurances, Uddhav had on Monday said he was waiting for the PM's rally to be held in the city ahead of the BMC elections.
 
 Ignoring Sena leader  's threat of withdrawing support to the BJP-led state government, CM confidently said that the government will complete its fiveyear term
 
