Chhetri scored his first goal in more than three months to give his team a 22nd minute lead. The visitors were in control and looked good enough to return to winning ways after the loss against East Bengal but   turned the tables on their opponents with goals from Anthony Wolfe (33rd minute) and Man-of-the-Match Chesterpoul Lyngdoh (53rd minute) for a thoroughly deserving 2-1 victory.
 
  The defeat will be hard to digest for  . They also have to live with the disappointment of missing their star defender, John Johnson, for a minimum of two matches after he was sent off for a tackle on Richard Costa in the 84th minute. He also got into a verbal duel with Churchill coach Alfred Fernandes and complicated things for himself by pushing Alfred to the ground and then jostling with defender  , all in front of match commissioner Michael Andrews, who rushed to separate the warring parties.
  
  Everybody likes it when a big club fails to navigate their way against a weaker opposition. Everybody likes it when the champions show a little fallibility. Bengaluru FC started decently but looked horribly vulnerable against the pace of Chesterpoul, Surchandra Singh and Surabuddin Mollick on the counter. Honduras striker  , handed his first start, had a nightmarish game, missing at least two gilt-edge chances. No wonder he soon made his way back to the bench.
  
  
  It was Norales, though, who had an important role in Bengaluru’s opening goal. He won a penalty, tripping under the challenge of Fulgancio Cardozo and Chhetri made no mistake from the spot to score his first goal since the AFC Cup semifinal in October.
  
  Anthony Wolfe, pilloried for his misses in four games, finally opened his account, capitalizing on a defensive lapse from Johnson just after the half an hour mark and, after the change of ends, laid the ball for Chesterpoul, who kept his cool inside the box, evaded a sliding challenge and hammered the ball past goalkeeper Amrinder Singh.
  
  Bengaluru FC put all its might to secure the equalizer and would have had one if goalkeeper Priyant Singh’s finger tips had not turned away Vineeth’s close-range attempt for a corner in the dying minutes.
  
  It was an unlikely end to the match. Bengaluru FC, after all, are among the stronger teams in the league, perhaps even the strongest bet for the I-League title, while Churchill Brothers, with just one point from their first four matches, could be considered the weakest. Now that Churchill have got their first win, things might seem otherwise.
