The   has thrown together a bunch of five widely different states that together go for Assembly polls in the coming weeks. Yet here's a strange thing: all of them have a state debt problem, the most serious being that of Punjab.

 The total debt of the Punjab state was a staggering Rs 1.25 lakh cr as estimated in their last year's budget. Every resident of this rich state has a debt of Rs 38,536 hanging over his or her head.
 
  are steadily rising, having zoomed up by 58% since 2011-12 to reach Rs 9,900 crore'' in 2015-16. Nearly one fifth of the total revenue (earnings) of the state government are now going towards repaying the debt.
 
 Although Goa, another poll bound state and Kerala have bigger debt overhangs per person, these two states have understandable problems.In Goa, the biggest source of income in recent years, mining, collapsed after massive violations of law were found. Kerala, with declining agriculture and low industrialisation too, faces chronic financial difficulties.
 
 But what's happened to Punjab, the granary of India, once so advanced in both agriculture and industry? Its state government has been borrowing heavily from various sources to run itself. Data collated by the Reserve Bank shows that its annual debt is running at a 32.4% of the gross state domestic product, the value of the total output of the state in 2015. As per finance commission decisions in the past, a state with more than 20% debt to GSDP ratio should be considered `debt stressed'. This is the second highest in India, topped only by the chronically troubled West Bengal. Uttar Pradesh, another poll bound state has a debt to GSDP ratio not far behind Punjab's at 30.5%.
 
 There is an unseemly scramble in the state for somehow raising cash. Re ports earlier this year said that the government mortgaged assets like jails and Gandhian institutions to raise cash. The government has also been borrowing from the Reserve Bank under a special provision called ways and means advances -but it has to pay an additional 2% penalty for it. Last year, 30 banks led by SBI stopped lending to the state government because foodgrain worth Rs 20,000 cr it bought using such loans had gone missing as per reports.
 
 All this has dire consequences for the state's residents. Faced with a fiscal crisis, the state is putting the brakes on meaningful spending on key sectors. Agriculture is in crisis because of stagnating yields and declining returns to farmers.
 
 Between 2011 and 2015, agricultural growth was a mere 0.4% per year. It needs a rejuvenation through new technology and new strategies. This means more investment from the state. But that is not forthcoming. Health and education are suffering similarly . Inflation-adjusted data for development expenditure shows a virtual standstill even as population grows and services stagnate.
 
 The future is bleak because the Centre can't help much. Its hands are tied as regulations restrain it from offering grant in aid if the state is not a high revenue deficit one.
 
 
