AHMEDABAD: The special CBI court heard arguments on Saturday on an application filed by former DGP and an accused in the 2004 Ishrat Jahan encounter case, P P Pandey, seeking a discharge from the case.

 Pandey’s advocate submitted that he should be discharged because there is no evidence against him in the chargesheet filed by the CBI. Citing various statements, he also argued that there are contradictions in statements made by witnesses.
 
 Pandey’s advocate also argued that there is no government sanction for prosecution of the government officer in this case. Pandey was heading city crime branch at the time of the encounter.
 
 On the other hand, CBI’s counsel R C Kodekar cited three witnesses – D H Goswami, Nizamuddin Saiyed and Avnish Thakur – whose statements were recorded by judicial magistrate under Section 164 of the CrPC. They are direct evidence to substantiate charges against Pandey. Saiyed and Thakur narrated how Pandey was involved in the conspiracy before the encounter took place on June 15, 2004.
 
 The prosecution also cited the FIR registered by the city crime branch, which reveals that it was Pandey who had received the input about Ishrat and three others’ arrival to kill the then chief minister Narendra Modi. The FIR was filed by J G Parmar, who too is an accused in this case. Advocate Kodekar submitted that the FIR is a documentary evidence revealing conspiracy. The police was already in the knowledge that Ishrat and three others were illegally detained in Khodiyar Farm on the SG Highway, but the FIR falsely stated that they were intercepted on their way to  .
 
 The CBI countered Pandey’s argument that he should be given a discharge on the ground that there was no prosecution sanction in his case. The CBI submitted that the alleged act of conspiracy, illegal detention and murder was not committed while discharging the duty, and therefore the prosecution never sought sanction to prosecute the accused.
 
 Moreover, it was argued that the conspiracy also involved former special director of  , Rajinder  , whose role is not described in the first chargesheet. Without evaluation of evidence placed in additional chargesheet, it is not possible to state that there is no evidence against Pandey.
 
 Special judge J K Pandya has posted the matter on October 11 to give an opportunity to the victim’s lawyer to make submissions.
 
