NEW DELHI:   in Connaught Place have threatened to keep their shops shut if New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) tries to ban the entry of vehicles into the market. A meeting of the protesting traders was called by   chairman Naresh Kumar on Thursday.

 “The NDMC chairman sought our suggestions for making Connaught Place a vehicle-free zone. We have asked them to regulate the traffic and remove encroachments, illegal hawkers, drug addicts and beggars instead of banning the entry of vehicles into the market,” said Vinay Behl, secretary of New Delhi Traders’ Association, who attended the meeting.
 
 “We won’t compromise when it comes to our business. If cars are not allowed in Connaught Place, then our business will go down drastically and we won’t allow that to happen. We have made it very clear to the chairman that if NDMC tries to forcefully implement the order, then we will keep our market shut.”
 
 Behl claimed that given the wide corridors in the Inner Circle, pedestrians had enough space to walk freely in the market and they would not like idea of parking their cars at Baba Kharak Singh Marg and walking to the Inner Circle. Last week, NDMC had given two options to the traders—the first proposal suggested making only the   vehicle-free and the second one to make both Middle and Inner Circles car-free. However, both the proposals were rejected by the traders’ association.
 
 “We have suggested them not to touch any surface parking lots. There is no need to ban vehicles in a place like Connaught Place, which witnesses 5 lakh footfall daily. The proposed vehicle ban will increase the load on the Metro and we will lose customers. No trader is in favour of this idea,” said Behl.
 
 NDMC secretary Chanchal Yadav claimed that the council was trying to bring all its stakeholders on board and necessary changes would be made in the proposal prepared by them.
 
 “We are trying to convince the traders’ association. Without their cooperation, it will be difficult for us to implement the plan. We invited them today so that they could put forward their suggestions. We will make necessary changes in our plan, but the project cannot be scrapped altogether. We are trying to prepare a plan, which is acceptable to both the public and the traders,” she added. 
 
