 is one of the most successful race car drivers to emerge from India. The rally driver, who became the first Indian to win the Asia-Pacific Rally Championship in 2014, has been among the leading lights of the Asian circuit for a decade now. The Delhi-based driver was in Gurgaon – a city he calls a favourite – and we caught up with him to talk about his memories, favourite places, and expectations from the Millennium City.

  The   says what has changed most about Gurgaon over the years is its connectivity. Talking about his teenage years when he and his friends had to plan road trips to get to Gurgaon, Gaurav says now the city is almost like an extension of  . He says, "It's not like I have to make an effort to travel to Gurgaon anymore, which is a far cry from how it was years ago. I remember 15-17 years ago, when we used to come to Gurgaon from Delhi, we had to plan a road trip. My friends and I used to go the 32nd Milestone, and we would plan for weeks to go to that place. That was how far-off and isolated from Delhi this city was back then. It used to be a task. Of course, we were teenagers so we had to arrange a car and one person who could drive it. I think travelling to Agra these days is easier than travelling to Gurgaon back then. Now, it's a breeze travelling from my house in central Delhi. On days without traffic, I can be here in 10 minutes."
 
  Gaurav says   is his favourite haunt in Gurgaon and he loves the place's vibe. "This place is awesome. It's an amazing concept. It reminds me of all the European open markets and streets. The culture and the feel here is brilliant- more European than Indian. You always see like-minded people here, whether you go to pubs or restaurants. Everyone is more chilled out, more cosmopolitan here," Gaurav tells us.
 
  
   
 
 
  Of course, being a racer, Gaurav has a thing or two to say about the roads and driving culture in the Millennium City. He says, "What I don't like is the bad roads and the constant traffic. But I think it doesn't have as much road rage as Delhi. Everyone is more independent here, and more chilled out like I said. People who don't have time to fight on the roads here, I guess."
 
  Having competed in a rally on the outskirts in Gurgaon last year, Gaurav says he is enthused by the growth of motorsport in the city. He elaborates, "We did a rally in the outskirts of Gurgaon last year, and it was a part of the National Rally Championship. We drove near the   and I am happy that rallies and races are coming to the city, given that there is no history of motorsport in Gurgaon. I think the city has so much potential for stuff like karting and with the Aravallis nearby, even rallying."
 
 
