When our photographer requested for a photo of Elsy Arakkal atop her mobility scooter, our sympathy soon gave way to amazement. Before he could utter the word cheese, the 29-kg, 75% disabled frame was off in a flash and on top of the three-wheeler, displaying admirable alacrity. She had pedalled eight kilometres from Puthanvelikkara in Ernakulam district to Kottappuram which falls under Thrissur for the photo shoot. That’s where Kottappuram Integrated Development Services (KIDS), a diocese-run organisation, maintains a craft centre for people like her.

 Elsy makes exquisite bouquets, paper bags, baskets and Christmas stars. “I do not use plastic,” she says proudly. To make the flowers, she dyes the leaves of arecanut tree, dries them and extracts the fibre. To get another kind of texture, solar wood is also used, while the base of the vase is made of coconut shell. “Who doesn’t like flowers?” the 47-year-old woman asks disarmingly.
 
 You don’t get the underlying meaning of that question until you learn that she used to roll beedis for a living, for two long decades. An accident changed all that. One day, she and her brother were travelling in the scooter donated by the panchayath when she lost balance and both suffered grievous injuries. “I was in a hospital in Ernakulam for a week,” she remembers. There was a break in beedi-making and when it was time to resume, she found that the man who ran the beedi unit had passed away.
 
 It was then that a volunteer from KIDS convinced her to join their centre and get vocational training to make delightful flowers instead of the cancer-causing beedis. Says Sister Mercy Thomas, who is the admistrator of KIDS: “Elsy manages to make between `6,000 to `10,000 a month. She insists on self-reliance and hates to take help. On the other hand, she likes to help others and share things with them. Above all, she has this feeling of gratitude.”
 
 With her income, Elsy supports a younger sister, who is mentally challenged, and has one of her brothers living with her. Her photos could not be done on Sunday, as she did not want to miss her Bible class. She answers in the negative when asked if she ever felt anger towards her Maker. “Never. In fact, He showed me a way to live independently after my accident,” she says. “All that I pray for is that I should not become a parasite, ever.”
 
 Born as the seventh of nine children to very poor parents, Elsy ran and played like other children till polio made her bed-ridden at the age of 11. “Today, I tell my relatives not to neglect vaccination,” she says. Education and life itself came to a standstill, till she slowly picked herself up with her hands and learnt to make beedis while at home.
 
 “Before polio struck, I wanted to be a nurse or a nun. But God had other plans. Life may have been different if I could pass Class 10 or get DTP training. But I do not have regrets and just want to do my karma instead of worrying about the results,” she says, summing up. Yes, she actually quotes the Gita.
 Next time someone tries to sell a beautifully crafted bouquet, instead of haggling, imagine the unseen and nimble hands that may have created it.
 
