PUNE: A group of 30 odd wheel-bound soldiers at the   ( ) at Khadki were left disappointed when their cricketing idol and honorary ‘Lt Col’ M S Dhoni could not make it to the facility as part of the   team Pune Rising Supergiants’ (RPS) visit there.

 The reason for Dhoni’s absence could not be ascertained immediately, but other team members, including local guy  , pacers Ashoke Dinda, Shardul Thakur and Jaydev Unadkat, visited the centre to spend time with the soldiers.
 
 The RPS, with the help of Ketto — a crowd funding platform to raise fund for disabled soldiers, had organised a special visit to the PRC on Sunday.
 
 The players were accompanied by the team management, including CEO Raghu Iyer. When asked why players like Dhoni and other international players did not turn up, he said, “This question is invalid,” adding that, international players are not supposed to attend such events. 
 
 The PRC authorities had taken special permission from the   to host the visit. 
 
 The soldiers, who had watched the match at Gahunje stadium last week, were expecting to meet the other players, especially Dhoni and   on Sunday.
 
 These soldiers are skilled at various sports like badminton, basketball, swimming and athletics. A few of them are national champions as well.
 
 One of the soldiers told TOI, “I am a huge fan of Dhoni. This is why I always wear a number 7 jersey while playing basketball. Today I did the same to impress him. Unfortunately, he did not turn up. Hopefully one day he will come here to meet us.”
 
 Another aged soldier, who is impressed with Dhoni’s cool and calm nature, said, “He is the real hero of the Indian cricket team. He has set a benchmark for all of us to handle things in a calm manner. I wanted to meet him today and ask about his unique characteristic, but he didn’t come.” 
 
 The visiting cricketers were impressed with the spirit and skills of the soldiers. Unadkat told TOI, “We must salute these soldiers for their spirit and contributions. They are the actual heroes of the nation.”
 
