PUNE: The city is heading for yet another collision between green activists and the PMC, which is determined to go ahead with the construction of   (HCMTR) that will eat up 7.1805 hectares of reserved forest in the city.

 Experts and citizens’ groups have strongly opposed construction of the road, saying that no step must be initiated until a detailed project report and an environmental impact assessment was carried out by a competent authority.
 
 “Unless a proper study is made by the committee of experts, it cannot be held that the destruction of forest for the construction of the proposed road is in public interest. We take the opportunity to reiterate that Art 51A (7) of the Constitution specifies that the fundamental duties of citizens is to protect and improve the natural environment, including forests, lakes, rivers and wildlife and to have compassion for living creatures,” said a group of citizens, united under the umbrella of Deccan Gymkhana Parisar Samiti, in an objection submitted to the town planning department of the government of Maharashtra.
 
 Urban planner Aneeta Gokhale-Benninger told TOI, “The PMC claims that the HCMTR is being constructed to de-congest the city’s traffic. Solution to city’s traffic woes is to introduce electric mass transit systems like underground metro and electric tram. It will improve safety and comfort of commuters. Roads and flyovers are not the answers to traffic problem”.
 
 As sanctioned in the 1987 development plan, HCMTR was meant to be used for rapid bus transport system initially and later to operate the higher capacity systems such as trolleys, trams, monorail and, finally, the rail-based rapid transit system. Hence, the HCMTR was to be connected to existing or proposed road network only at selected interchange points, pointed out members of Deccan Gymkhana Parisar Samiti.
 
 Interestingly, as per the pre-feasibility report for the HCMTR dated December 2016, the proposed HCMTR will be a six-lane road with two lanes for BRTS and four lanes for private vehicles, including passenger cars and two wheelers. “There are 66 roads connected to the proposed route now. The objective of restricting the route to mass transport is not being adhered to,” said Samiti members.
 
 Citizens alleged that any construction activity on hill slope will result in felling of hundreds of trees, damaging forever the natural landscape of the city. However, PMC officials said that the civic body will ‘properly’ plan   and follow all norms so that the green cover and biodiversity are not damaged.
 
