PUNE: The   ( ) and city-based firm   have locked horns over the running of some buses. 

 A senior PMPML official told TOI that the transport body plans to issue a notice to the company for breaking regulations. The company has scrapped the bus route from the Pune airport to   without informing PMPML, officials alleged. However, they couldn’t specify the date when the service was stopped.
 
 GeoDirect and the PMPML were in an agreement to run the Pune Darshan buses as well as buses from the airport to Kothrud and  .
 
 “There are also issues with the company in connection with not paying PMPML on time. The matter will be sent to the chairman and managing director for a final decision. The PMPML may sever ties with the company and enter an agreement with a different company to run buses from the airport and for Pune Darshan,” the official said.
 
 While PMPML provided the buses, GeoDirect operated and managed the services. 
 
 GeoDirect’s general manager Prem Kale refuted the charges. “The buses on the Kothud route were stopped in July last year because it was not feasible. The issue was studied by us and we mentioned it in letters to PMPML in January last year. We requested the PMPML to change the Kothrud route in March and April, and were told that it has been forwarded to the traffic department for survey and changes. When no response was received after 30 days, we were asked by PMPML to do a survey ourselves and check for alternatives,” he explained. 
 
 “As this service was planned as part of a public-private partnership, the contractor was expected to have the freedom to take decisions to make the service successful. However, all decisions required PMPML’s approval,” Kale told TOI.
 
 Kale added that the transport body was always kept in the loop. “In a June letter, we provided detailed information of possible changes and alternatives. With no answers coming, we closed the route and duly informed them and even offered to return the buses,” he said.
 
 Money trouble
 
 Kale also said that the PMPML earns royalty on a per kilometre rate but the total kilometres are not calculated as per actual bus operations.
 
 He said that they are calculated based on the route, number of buses and trips planned by the traffic department, which is required to be updated regularly as per the performance, survey and demand. Hence, if this plan is not updated by the traffic department as expected for all public bus services, the PMPML accounts department may continue to charge royalty as per the original plan, which may lead to incorrect payment of the royalty, Kale said.
 
