GHAZIABAD: A three-year-old boy was crushed to death after he fell under the rear wheels of a reversing Indica Vista car outside ABC Playway School in Rajendra Nagar Sector 3 on Saturday. The accused, a 20-year-old student, has been arrested.

 According to the police, the accident occurred just a few metres away from the gate of the school where the child used to study. It was around 12.30 pm when the child’s mother was picking him up from school. As soon as they left the school premises, they had reached a few meters away itself when the accused driving an Indica Vista car (UP14 BJ 3566) reversed it at a great speed, without checking the road behind him
 
  and knocked down the child, and the rear tyre passed crushed his stomach. On hearing people’s screams, the accused accelerated the car and the child was crushed under the tyre once again.
 
 “The child was holding his mother’s right hand when the accused reversed the car at a great speed without looking behind him and the mother fell at a distance but the child was crushed under the rear wheel. The accused ran away from the spot,” said Dhirendra Yadav Singh, SHO of Sahibabad Police Station.
 
 The victim was rushed to Ambay Hospital in Lajpat Nagar, Sahibabad where he was declared brought dead.
 
 The accused,  , was later arrested from his Lajpat Nagar home and the car seized by the police. 
 
 The victim, Jasmeet Singh (3), lived with his parents Jaswinder Singh and   in Rajendra Nagar, Sahibabad. The child’s father works in an AC repair shop in Karol Bagh, New Delhi. 
 
 “I was holding my child’s hand, and the moment the car hit us, I fell a little away due to the impact. However, my child fell down and he was crushed twice,” said Neetu Singh, adding, “If he wasn’t crushed for the second time, he could have survived.” 
 
 After Sharma fled, the police scanned footage from a CCTV camera installed nearby and managed to trace and arrest him.
 
 An FIR under sections 279 (Rash driving or driving on a public way) and 304A (Hit and run: Causing death by negligence) was registered with Sahibabad police station and the accused has been sent to judicial custody.
 
 
