PATIALA:   ( ) is set to update itself by launching a new website where one could make their online bookings besides being aware about the corporation.

 “We are planning to come up with our own website and for this, computer programmers and engineers will be recruited soon. Besides the timetable of   buses, passengers will find the timings of the buses plying on all routes across the state on our website. It will be a user-friendly website and also easy to operate,” said assistant managing director PRTC G S Thind.
 
 The corporation will recruit three computer programmers, six computer supervisors and a computer analyst for developing the website as well as online services including e-bookings. Earlier the PRTC had only a single computer programmer.
 
 “Things are being planned for which information should be uploaded on the website of PRTC. The total number of buses and routes, names and pictures of the officials, e-bookings, timings of all buses, new schemes of PRTC, recruitments or jobs, e-tendering, auction of buses and other information would be there for evryone to check out. The names of drivers and conductors for buses, especially Volvo and phone numbers of conductors could also be given,” added Thind.
 
 “At present the e-bookings for   and HVAC buses are done through busindia.com and traverljourney.com. But, soon after we develop our own website, it would become easier for the consumer as well as beneficial for our corporation,” said general manager A S Aulakh.
 
 At present, the PRTC have 1075 buses in  , out of which 1043 hit the road. The corporation, however has a target to cross the number of buses over 1200.
 
 30 old buses auctioned
 
 The PRTC has recently auctioned 30 old buses that were no more capable to run on roads. Out of these, 24 buses has already been auctioned off while others are under process. Notably, around 30% of PRTC buses, suffering without maintenance, are lying in bad shape. Only two months back, the corporation has decided to refurbish its year-old buses including 150 of PRTC and 150 running under kilometre scheme, for which a budget of Rs 30 crores was kept. Now, out of these 150 buses, thirty have been found in damaged conditions.
 
 
