CUTTACK: After years of wait, Cuttack will finally get two   out of the 32 that had been planned initially. 

 The two community toilets have been set up at Dagarpada and Ghasia Sahi in Gamhadia under Project Samman and it will be inaugurated on Wednesday. 
 
 "The two community toilets have been constructed at a cost of around Rs 70 lakh and it will immensely benefit the local slum dwellers," chairman of  's standing committee on health and sanitation, Ranjan Biswal, said.
 
 In 2013, the Cuttack Municipal Corporation (CMC) announced a plan to construct 32 community toilets as there is an acute shortage of public toilets in the city. 
 
 The project was to be funded partly by the  , CMC and few other private agencies with National Building Construction Corporation (NBCC) supposed to be the building partner. 
 
 But in the last four years, the civic body has managed to complete construction of only two community toilets. Officials claimed that one more community   at Nua Nima Sahi is also in its final stages of completion and will be inaugurated soon. 
 
 However, the inordinate delay in the construction of the community toilets has not only irked citizens but has affected the sanitation condition in the city. 
 
 CMC sources said there are only 65 public toilets in Cuttack, which has a population of over 6 lakh. Adding to it, a majority of the toilets are in very bad shape due to poor maintenance by the civic body. 
 
 "The pace at which CMC is constructing the toilets is really worrisome. As there is shortage of public toilets in the city, the slum dwellers are using the river bed for open defecation and it is affecting our environment," said Trinath Das, a retired lecturer.
 
 CMC officials claimed measures are being taken to expedite the project. "The delay was caused mainly due to litigation over the plots of land. But we are taking every possible measure to complete the project at the earliest. So far we have identified 18 plots across the city for construction of community toilets," said Biswal.
 
 In a related development, a local sanitation committee has been formed for maintenance of the community toilets and they have been trained to operate and keep the toilets clean. 
 
 "A nominal fee will be charged from the people for using the toilets. The money will be used in maintenance of the community toilets," state project manager of Project Samman, Phalguni Sahu, said. 
 
 
