PUNE: At least 650 students of Classes IX and XI from three high school-cum-junior colleges run by the   ( ) were asked to bring answer sheets from home to write Marathi subject paper as part of their year-end final exams which began on Saturday. These schools are located in Wanowrie, Solapur Bazaar and Ghorpadi. The exam will end on April 13.

 While activists flayed these schools on the grounds that such action leaves scope for malpractice, the concerned school officials said that the students were asked to bring answer sheets because the PCB had stopped supplying stationery to them. They claimed that there is no provision in the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act or Right to Education (RTE) Act to provide answer sheets. Interestingly, the RTE Act does not apply to Classes IX and XI.
 
 The PCB officials, on the contrary, held the concerned school heads responsible for the incident, claiming that they did not make a requisition for answer sheets on time.
 
 The students, who did not wish to be named, said, “Our teachers have asked us to bring answer sheets for the exams to be held between April 1 and 13. We have purchased answer sheets of 12 and 16 pages costing Rs 4 and Rs 3 respectively from road side vendors and stationery shops.”
 
 A school teacher said, "Because of the delay in receiving the stationery from the PCB, we had earlier collected money from students and supplied them answer sheets. This time, we have asked students to bring answer sheets from home as we have taken a call not to collect money from them.”
 
 A parent present at the Mahadji Shinde High School in Wanowrie said the students from lower middle-class family were taking education in the cantonment schools as they cannot afford to study in private schools due to financial constraints.
 
 Another parent at   at Solapur Bazaar said, “My daughter saves Rs 20 per day because she does not travel in public buses. She walks several kilometers to reach school. We are facing problems in purchasing answer sheets, but we have no choice.”
 
 In the case of students from classes 1 to 8, the schools have been providing question papers with space for writing answers to each question and the students have to use these papers rather than separate answer sheets.
 
 PCB chief executive officer D. N. Yadav told TOI, “I was not aware of the issue. After, I came to know from my staff that the students have not received answer sheets, I have issued instruction to supply answer sheets to students on Monday. It is wrong to ask students to bring answer sheets from home or outside.”
 
 Activist Raja Chavan said bringing answer sheets from home provides full scope for malpractice as the schools do not have a system for checking answer sheets.
 
