Imagine depositing a used piece of paper in a pot instead of tossing it in a waste paper basket, and seeing it grow into a plant! That would be something, right? Well, exactly what young   is working at — making a difference to the way we treat   through our everyday action. With a master’s degree in forensic bio-technology, Mansi is using her knowledge and her concern for the environment, to make a difference. 

 
 Says Mansi, “I was working in the forensic field, but it got very depressing after a point. I was always inclined towards nature and gardening had always been a hobby, so I thought of taking my interest in the field ahead, while also making a case for the environment.” And thus, what started out as a balcony garden, paved the way for her ‘go green’ mission. Starting out with   and mud tiles with seeds infused in them, which could grow into plants, she has now progressed to incorporating seeds in plain paper that can be used for writing, wrapping and tagging, and then grown into plants! “I spoke to my parents about involving more people, and it was last year, during the Ganpati festival, that the idea of modaks struck me. That was my contribution to the green Ganesha drive. Word spread and I designed mud tiles as rangolis in different shapes and design for  , which also got great response.”
 
 
 An eye for creativity contributed to the idea, explains Mansi, “I had seen this campaign in  , where a corner of the daily newspaper had seeds in it and people were informed about how to use them. My dad has a printing press and I told him that I wanted to do such a thing, to ensure that no paper ever goes to waste. That is when we thought of the whole concept. I have come up with paper flags infused with seeds. You know how the sale of these miniature paper flags shoot up just before Republic Day or Independence Day? And the next day you can see them lying in heaps on the roads. That gave me the idea. If you buy these seeded-flags, you will not even feel guilty about throwing them away, and instead of showing disrespect to the flag, you will actually be doing the country good, because the flag will ultimately find its way to the ground and grow into a plant! I am hoping for my idea to work this Independence Day. I also make paper stationery items like cards, book marks, wedding invites, diaries, journals and coasters infused with  . When it comes to wedding invites, young couples are very interested in making a mark and opt for something that is eye-catching, but also says something about their interests. And that is where these   invites come in. We don’t compromise on our main purpose, which is to see the wedding card grow into a plant, so we don’t make them too jazzy or glittery. Instead, we use floral designs to make them presentable. By now, I have made ‘don’t throw me, grow me’ the motto of my life.”
 
 
 So, what seeds can we find in her items? All kinds, from tomato to sunflower to basil, and with proper instructions about how to use them. One just has to choose what plant they want to see the paper grow into. “Soil is most important, along with proper care. But since the idea is to make it as user-friendly as possible, so that contributing to the environment’s cause doesn’t become a chore, we have tried to have plants that are conducive to the climate of Mumbai and can grow even in constrained spaces and inadequate sunlight. However, we also have seeds for bigger plants, for those who particularly ask 
 for them.” Apart from Mumbai, her project has got a good response from Ahmedabad, Delhi and Jaipur. Mansi is now focussing on coming up with more personalised goodies while furthering her mission. Looking ahead, she wants to pass on her knowledge to kids and make them aware of the importance of preserving their environment. 
 
 
 
