NEW DELHI: Holding that a patient has an inviolable right with regard to his or her body, the   has said that doctors must take   of a patient or his family members for any invasive procedure during treatment. 

 A bench of Justice Ajit Bharihoke and Anup K Thakur said provision of taking consent could be overlooked only if urgent intervention was required to save the life of a patient. It held Delhi-based Hospital   guilty of negligence by not taking consent before inserting a catheter for central venous line procedure on a patient and directed it to pay a compensation of Rs 7 lakh to him.
 
 “Unless the procedure is necessary in order to save the life or preserve the health of the patient and it would be unreasonable to delay the procedure until the patient regains consciousness and takes a decision, a doctor cannot perform such procedure without consent of the patient. In the instant case, the insertion of catheter by Central Venous Line procedure being an invasive procedure carrying certain risk of complication, including injury to the jugular vein or bursting of the blood cells, the team of doctors was legally required to obtain consent of the patient,” it said.
 
 Advocate  , appearing for the patient, contended that the doctors had not taken consent of family members and alleged that due to their negligence, the jugular artery was ruptured resulting in profuse bleeding and he had to be shifted shift to another hospital for treatment.
 
 The hospital, however, said procedure of insertion of CVL in the patient’s neck was a routine procedure like giving injection and consent was not required as it was not a surgical or invasive procedure.
 
 Refusing to accept its plea, NCDRC said there was no merit in the contention and putting CVL in the body of a patient could not be equated with ordinary procedure. 
 
 “A central venous catheter (CVC) also known as central venous line or central venous access catheter, is a procedure in which catheter is placed into a large vein. A catheter can be placed in veins in the neck, chest, groin or through veins in the arm. It is used to administer medication or fluids that are unable to be taken by the mouth. From the record it transpires that in the instant case, the CVC was tried to be placed by the team of doctors in the internal jugular vein, which went wrong resulting in injury to the vein and excessive bleeding. The aforesaid procedure obviously is an invasive procedure which admittedly carries the risk,” it said.
 
 “It is not the case of the hospital that there was an emergency threatening the life of the complainant, which could justify the procedure to save the life without seeking consent,” it said.
 
 The hospital, however, said it may approach the Supreme Court. “We haven’t received the copy of the order yet. After seeing the order, if order is adverse we will approach the  ,” said Dr Shubhra Verma, General Manager (Operations), Sitaram Bhartia hospital.
 
