MYSURU: While access to information technology is still a distant dream in many government schools in the state, a group of government-school teachers from Mysuru is using   to discuss science and mathematics topics with their students.

 The idea of starting the group was initiated by   science teacher   Sayyapparaju three years ago. The group   (ViVek) was started with 20 government teachers within HD Kote taluk and they regularly interacted on science and mathematics subjects. They’d resolve doubts by uploading videos, graphs and audio clips when a member raised doubt on a particular topic.
 
 Praveen, an IIT Madras graduate, joined a government school because he was passionate about teaching students from a rural background. After learning that government teachers lacked proficiency in science, Praveen decided to first enhance subject knowledge among teachers. He started the group to share subject details and make teachers more resourceful.
 
 “Every Sunday, the group moderator would suggest a topic and members would interact on it, raise doubts and share information. For one week, members discuss that particular issue. On Saturday, the moderator integrates all the discussions and a summary of the topic will be posted,” he said.
 
 As the group became popular and members started discussing it with colleagues in other taluks, more government teachers teaching science and mathematics joined the group.
 
 Currently, there are around 100 members in the group. Some teachers have even brought out handbooks and conducted workshops for students in their schools based on the topics discussed in the group. 
 
 Nanjangud taluk’s   science teacher Harsha S, a member of the group, said this way of discussing subjects has made him more confident during teaching. “I’ve teaching science for nearly a decade. This group has developed my knowledge and helped me teach better,” he said. 
 
 Recently, the  , an organisation specializing in international cultural and educational activities, released a case study in teaching and technology which recognizes this group as a model initiative in education. 
 
 
