AGRA: The   has ordered the transfer of the trial of sensational murder of PhD student  , outside UP. She was found dead with multiple wounds in a laboratory of Agra’s   on March 15, 2013. 

 The apex court's order came on the plea filed by Neha's father,  , seeking the transfer of the ongoing trial in sessions court from Agra to any court outside Uttar Pradesh due to "security concerns and speedy justice". Richpal Sharma, who was shifted to Delhi from Agra last year, told TOI that the SC order was issued on Thursday.
 
 He said he had filed the plea for the transfer of the case, as he feared   due to the influential background of the accused, Uday Swaroop. “It’s been three years since the trial started but justice still eludes us”, he said. The family wanted the trail to be conducted speedily, as was done in the Nirbhaya rape cum murder case.
 
 He said he had shifted to Delhi along with his family as they were being repeatedly threatened by the people close to the accused’s family. “We also fear that witnesses in the case could be coerced to turn hostile”, he said.
 
 He said the accused’s maternal grandfather, Prem Kumar, is a very senior retired IAS officer of UP cadre, president of Radha Soami Satsang Sabha and also the Chairman of Dayal Bagh Education Institute, where his daughter was murdered. Richpal Sharma, who retired from the Army as honorary subedar Major, said their life had changed with this single incident. “It’s not just a case of sexual assault and murder of a human being but also an assault of our trust and belief in the system as the accused and his family think that they are above the law”, he said hoping that his daughter would not get justice.
 
 Saying that his belief in judiciary is still intact, Sharma said that he would not let the sinner escape and would fight for his daughter’s right as long as he has to. Sharma said he had mentioned in his plea before the SC that the UP government on July 23, 2013 had issued a notification requesting the CBI to investigate the case, thereby clearly indicating that the state government was itself not satisfied with the investigations done by the UP police.
 
 Neha, a 23-year-old PhD scholar, was found dead in the laboratory with 12 deep cuts, inflicted with a paper cutter and a surgical blade, on March 15, 2013. Uday, who was her senior and prime accused in the case, was arrested by the police after initial investigations.
 
 The case was transferred to CBI in August 2013 and the agency filed a 480-page chargesheet against Uday in January last year for rape, murder and causing disappearance of evidence. He was arrested again on May 13, 2016 and his bail plea was rejected by a court in Agra on May 24 last year.
 
