Rahukaalam delays CM

 Presence of Rahukaalam forced TDP supremo Nara Chandrababu Naidu to delay his entry into the   premises by 35 minutes. As per schedule, Naidu was supposed to enter the premises at 9.45 am, but almanac experts advised him not enter the venue before 10.25 am as Rahukaalam was in panchangam. Naidu along with his minister son Nara Lokesh started from their house in Vijayawada in a chopper at 9.15 am. They reached the venue at 10.45 am.
 
 Balaiah, Harikrishna missing
 
 No family members of TDP founder president and former chief minister NTR was seen on the first day of the Mahanadu. NTR’s sons former MP Harikrishna, Hindupur MLA Balakrishna and cine actor Jr. NTR attended the previous Mahanadus. Party sources said MLA Balakrishna would participate in the Mahanadu on May 29. 
 
 20 generators in action 
 
 Organisers of the plenary arranged for 20 huge generators to draw electricity in the premises. They drew power from APEPDCL for the lighting outside the premises by paying Rs 1.7 lakh. APEPDCL had fixed temporary meters. Organisers are using three 500 KV, one 1,000 KV and fifteen 125 KV generators. Additional generators are kept for emergency.
 
 Yellow surge at rly station
 
 Visakhapatnam railway station remained crowded for two days with thousands of TDP cadres arriving in trains from various places. Passengers faced severe problems due to the dearth of seats in many trains coming to Vizag. Cadres started arriving from Kadapa, Nellore, Ongole, Tirupati, Hyderabad, Guntur and Vijayawada from Friday afternoon to Saturday morning. Godavari, Visakha, Duranto, Prasanthi, Janmabhoomi, East Coast, Chennai Mail, LTT trains ferried the yellow brigade.
 
 Yummy treat for cadre
 
 The organisers of the food section got a pat on the back from the cadres and leaders for the delicious food served at the venue. The major attraction in the food items are apple halwa, Kakinada kaja and Ulava Chaaru. One of the food committee members said the famous Madugula halwa would also be served.
 
 Nandamuri still a big draw
 
 Hundred of cadres visited the photo exhibition of founder president NTR at the venue. The exhibition displayed NTR’s photos in various attires of different films and also stages of his political career. People were seen taking snaps with their mobiles of the photos displayed in the exhibition.
 
 Araku coffee at Dwcra stalls
 
 Various ministers including Paritala Sunita visited the Dwcra stall where Araku coffee, Pootarekulu and other eateries were displayed. MLA from Warangal Seetakka and chief minister also visited the stall.
 
 Banners all over the city
 
 Flexies and banners of TDP national secretary and minister Nara Lokesh flooded the city starting from the roads to the venue. One Devineni Chandu had arranged a huge cutout of Lokesh, while Visakha East MLA Velagapudi Ramakrsihna Babu erected another huge cutout of TDP chief Naidu in front of the main entrance.
 
 It’s selfie time for workers
 
 Cadres grabbed the opportunity to take selfies with ministers and various leaders. Deputy CM KE Krishna Murthy and several women ministers obliged on their way to the main dais.
 
 TDP richer by Rs 72.9 crore
 
 Minister Sidda Raghava Rao said TDP earned an income of Rs 72.9 crore in the year 2016, while its expenditure was Rs 24.3 crore. The balance Rs 48.5 crore. 
 
 
