NEW DELHI: Responding to questions raised by the opposition on GST,   MP Udit Raj said the tax reforms would bring about uniformity in the system and be immensely beneficial to the people.

 Participating in the debate, Raj said the GST bill was brought to end the different tax slabs prevalent in different states besides abolishing the cascading effects of the current tax structure.
 
 “Under GST, there will be same tax structure across the country, all anomalies will come to an end and extend the tax base,” he said.
 
 The BJP MP dismissed the suggestion that with implementation of GST, the power of state legislatures to enact tax laws would be completely abrogated. He said the legislation was prepared with the consent of all state governments.
 
 Raj said the Centre would not dictate the   but would act as buffer between the central and state governments. He said GST implementation would automatically encourage digitisation, bring in transparency, lower prices and stop hoarding of essential commodities, besides curbing black money.
 
 “GST is a game changer.. It will lead to a corruption-free India,” he said. He also countered   leader Veerappa Moily’s argument that delay in implementation of GST led to a loss of Rs 12 lakh crore.
 
 BJP MP Poonam Mahajan related an Akbar-Birbal tale to drive home the point that GST would benefit the country and contribute to progress, even though there may be some hiccups initially. She said GST would make one nation, one tax a reality.
 
 “Tax reforms are development oriented and in the interest of the whole nation, particularly the youth, who have immense faith in the leadership of PM  ,” she said.
 
  member Venkatesh Babu called GST the biggest tax reform initiative post-Independence but said there were many challenges in its proper implementation. He said Tamil Nadu, being one of the manufacturing states, had initially opposed the GST bill but it was happy that some of its concerns were addressed.
 
 “There will be huge revenue loss to manufacturing states like Tamil Nadu. Some of our concerns were addressed while some are yet to be addressed,” he said.
 
 Babu said through the GST Council, the Centre would get ‘veto power’ and sought proper representation and powers to all states in it.
 
 
