Yoga Guru Baba Ramdev is all set to break the world record by gathering 5 lakh yoga enthusiasts in Ahmedabad on June 21, the International Yoga Day. However,   appears to be ebbing if one looks at the   of  , which has the tag of being the   The university has seen 40% decline in the number of students in 2016- 2017, compared to 2015-2016.

 Registrar of Lakulish University Ohm Dave reasons the materialistic needs of today's youngsters keeps them away from yoga. "The foremost concern of youngsters is whether a yoga degree will lead them to good job or not. They seek materialistic gains. Obviously, a yoga degree does not pay as much as an engineering or MBA degree. But, I am hopeful that with time the courses will become popular. Yoga has a great future in India and abroad."
 
 A faculty member at the university said: "Many MBAs don't get desired jobs and still students seem to be desirous of picking up courses with fancy titles rather than study this discipline." Usually, a degree holder in any of the yoga disciplines earns anywhere between Rs 10,000 to Rs 25,000 per month. But, there are not enough jobs up for grabs. Dave said: "After graduating or attaining a diploma from the university, students usually tend to open their own yoga classes or become therapists in hospitals while a few join schools as teachers."
 
 Lakulish, which was established in 2013, saw the first batch of graduates pass out in 2016. Since no formal campus recruitment was organised, the university has not maintained any placement records. Students agree that employability is the biggest criteria for selecting any course. A student pursuing Ashtang Yoga at Lakulish, on condition of anonymity, said, "I enrolled due to my interest. Being a youngster, I can relate to thinking of my peers. One of the crucial factors is meagre employment opportunity available to yoga graduates.
 
 Also, most prefer to put yoga to good use under the guidance of an experienced teacher rather than going for academic study." Dhaval Shah, one of the students pursuing MSc in Ashtang Yoga, said, "Youngsters do not wish to pursue long-term courses in yoga and thus the numbers have declined substantially after the initial jump. I feel, if one keeps aside concerns of employment, there are numerous benefits of learning both theoretical and practical aspects of yoga." It may be noted that 2015, when first International Yoga Day was celebrated, saw a big jump in enrolment for yoga courses.
 
 But just a year later, numbers saw a huge dip in short term and diploma courses. One of the factors that drew people to study of yoga was reasonable fees that range from Rs 2,000 to 20,000, depending upon the course. Lakulish has total 48 faculty members on regular and contractual basis. But, such factors are of no concern to students. Shagun Saini, 44, a student of PG Diploma in Yoga Therapy, said: "There is a notion among youngsters that one can opt for yoga only as a cure for certain ailments. The definition of yoga among youngsters has to change.
 
 The elderly joining the courses, out of sheer interest, have a better understanding of the science which is not the case with youngsters." Commenting on lack of interest in academic study of yoga, Head of the Yoga Department at Gujarat Vidyapith Dr Biman Pal said: "While learning yoga, people have a lot of expectations, academic and otherwise, which don't get fulfilled. I feel lack of expert trainers is the biggest reason why there are few takers for courses." Interestingly, Gujarat Vidyapith boasts of long waiting list of students for its courses in yoga.
 
 Yoga trainers say more and more people are getting attracted to yoga after learning about its efficacy. However, lengthy duration of the courses and lack of proper teaching are the main reasons for decline in academic interest. Samarth Dave, owner of yoga school in Bodakdev, said: "Location of a university, lack of faculty, long academic hours and job availability are some of the reasons that hamper the popularity of courses. A young student would obviously choose a 15-day diploma over a 2-year diploma course in the university." Another yoga trainer, Purvi Shah, who runs a yoga studio in Navrangpura, said, "It is not that yoga enthusiasts are declining in numbers. Falling enrolments may have more to do with formal teaching instead of more practical approach which is crucial to understand the science."
 
 
