DEHRADUN: With many liquor shops in the   hills being closed, and continuing protests by women groups over opening of new vends following the   order on closing liquor vends near highways, demand has surged for home-made alcohol brewed by hill tribes like the Bhotias. 

  Sources said that the   made by the Bhotias - referred to as 'chakti' - is finding many takers now. Also, people in the border district of Pithoragarh are regularly crossing the relatively porous border to Nepal to get their quota of alcohol. The surge in demand has resulted in many shops on the Nepal side of the border - from tea-sellers to grocers - increasing their stock of booze. "The Nepal border is just across the Kali river at Dharchula. Liquor on the Nepal side is cheaper due to higher value of the Indian rupee in Nepal. Also, since shops are closed here, there has been increased movement of locals crossing the   into Nepal to get alcohol since the past few days, " said BS Almiya, forest range officer, Dharchula. 
 
 Deepak Gurung, a shopowner at Darchula (in Nepal), told TOI over phone that many establishments have increased their liquor supplies following raised demand. "In Nepal, we can sell liquor bottles in any shop or outlet which does not necessarily have to be a liquor shop. The permit is easy to get from the local administrative office. Many shops have trebled the liquor stock kept with them, as a lot of Indians are coming for bulk liquor purchase," he said. 
 
  Concurrently, the demand for country liquor has also shot up -- in particular the brew made by the Bhotia hill tribe which sources said is selling at Rs 150 (for a 700 ml bottle). Lokesh Singh Rautela, district social mobilisation officer in Dharchula told TOI, "Bhotias have been brewing liquor from grains such as wheat and rice since a long time in their homes. But now, because so many liquor shops in the district are closed, their brew is finding favour with locals." 
 
 Gautam Singh Brijwal, a youth from the Bhotia tribe claimed that many men from his community - who work as daily wagers - have taken leave from work to brew liquor. "People of our tribe generally brewed liquor at home for our personal consumption or to cater to guests during festivals. But now, since we are getting regular orders from outsiders, many people from our community have left their regular work and are engaged in brewing liquor."
 
