NAGPUR: On account of  , National Research Laboratory for Conservation of Cultural Property ( ) in association with   organized an exhibition and presentation on conserving artefacts of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar at Nagpur Central Museum.

 More than 400 artefacts of Ambedkar which includes the typewriter he used to write the constitution of the country, his clothes and an idol of Lord Buddha in front of which he embraced Buddhism at Deekshabhoomi are being curated and treated by NRLC.
 
 The artefacts which are currently part of the display at Shantivan in Chicholi will be relocated to an international museum under construction on a 14 acre land in Chicholi. The   (NIT) is acting as the nodal agency of the project funded by state government.
 
 The project head, Leena Zilpe along with a team of trained curators explained the necessary measures of precaution for protecting heritage artefacts. The presentation highlighted various aspects of conservation of artefacts including planning of the display, storage, cataloguing and handling of the artefacts in emergency situations.
 
 Zilpe said, “There is much more to running a museum than just displaying the objects. The preservation of the artefacts in the best possible manner requires a lot of care and attention on the part of the museum caretakers.”
 
 Shekhar Godbole who is currently running the museum at Shantivan said, “We have been trying to attract th attention of the government on the deteriorating condition of Babasaheb’s artefacts for a decade or so and have been requesting for funds to curate and chemically treat the artefacts to preserve them. I am very thankful that the BJP-SS government responded to us.”
 
 Godbole added, “These are the artefacts that we can show to the coming generation and teach them about Dr Ambedkar. It is therefore very important that these artefacts be preserved in a pristine condition.”
 
 Caretaker of Shantivan, Prakash Sahare said, “I am really happy that at last something is being done for the artefacts. They were in a need for chemical treatment for their preservation for a long time, especially the clothing articles.”
 
 (Reporting by Umabhargavi Addepalli)
 
 
