KOLKATA: Hundreds of students appearing for their board exam were stranded or delayed by several minutes on their way to the centres as the streets remained chock-a-block with rows of immobile vehicles lining up one after the other.

 Reason: As many as five political rallies in the city, two buses breaking down on EM Bypass in the morning, guardians accompanying students parking their cars on the road, hawkers clogging several city roads selling colours for Holi and the final nail in the coffin by the hour-long shower that left several city pockets inundated and traffic crawling till late into the night.
 
 The ICSE examination started at 11am, while the CBSE papers were distributed by 10.30am. But several examinees were yet to reach their exam centres due to traffic. Some got off from buses and hired taxis, some jostled with Metro passengers heading office, some took lift on bikes while others simply ran through footpaths and between arrays of cars to reach the exam centres on timeICSE examinees had English paper while CBSE students had Hindi exam.
 
 An ICSE examinee of a so An ICSE examinee of a south Kolkata school, who is a resident of Howrah, said she started for her centre at 9.15am with her father in their car. But she got stuck in the traffic chaos first on EM Bypass and then from Park Circus and yet again at AJC Bose Road. “I reached school just before the papers were distributed. All my friends had already entered by then,“ said the student who got off the car and ran the last 500m to reach the school on time.
 
 The principals of St James' School at Entally and Rammohan Mission School on Prince Anwar Shah Road said some of their students were late for the exam venue because of the traffic. “The exam was scheduled at 11am. But we give out question papers at 10.45am. One student said he was stuck in a severe jam which made him late. He reached around 10.57am. Without any delay , I rushed him to his allotted room. He looked stressed and was sweating profusely ,“ said Sujoy Biswas, principal of Ram Mohan Mission School.
 
 TH Ireland, pricipal of St James' School, said: “Students reported late at our school too.But everyone reached before the start of the exam.“
 
 Officials said the morning traffic mayhem was mainly because of some guardians blocking a portion of the road right outside the school by parking vehicles. To make things worse, two buses broke down on EM Bypass -one at Chingrihata flyover and the other on Ambedkar bridge -hampering movement of vehicles heading north between 9.45am and 10.45am. The ripple effect continued well past noon.
 
 In the afternoon, political parties took over the streets as everyone, from the ruling   to opposition parties hit the streets on a variety of issues. Four thousandTrinamool members took out a procession from College Street and walked along SN Banerjee Road and Dorina crossing for a three-hour congregation at RR Avenue to thank CM   for successfully conducting the TET examination.
 
 Between 2pm and 7pm, SUCI, SFI,   and Naxalite student unions like AISA and USDF hit the streets on a variety of issues ranging from increase in mutation fee to protesting against the life sentencing of   teachers.
 
 A senior officer at Lalbazar said he was worried about the situation but his hands were tied as there is no provision that bars political parties from conducting processions and rallies during exams.
 
 The final nail in the coffin was the smart shower in the evening (23.1mm in one hour) that started around 6pm.
 
 
 
 Having public rallies and street agitations, in the middle of the board exam season, is extremely irresponsible behaviour. A large chunk of examinees are writing the first public exam of their life; it's extremely unfair to these teenagers if just getting to the exam centre in time becomes a tension-ridden affair. We expect our politicians to be a little more responsible.
 
