NAGPUR: The official notification for the election of   52nd   on March 5 was issued by municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar on Monday. As this time the post is reserved for  , the NMC will elect a woman mayor for the 7th time. As BJP has come into majority, mayor will be from its party only.

 On the same day, election to the posts of deputy mayor and 16 members for standing committee will also be conducted in a special general body meeting to be presided over by district collector Sachin Kurve as an election officer.
 
 The first woman mayor was Kunda Vijaykar, who ruled between February 5, 1996 and February 9, 1997. Later, Dr Kalpana Pande, Vasundhara Masurkar, Pushpa Ghode, Mayatai Iwnate and Archana Dehankar served as mayor.
 
 Five women corporators including Chetna Tank (third term), Nanda Jichkar (second term), Divya Dhurde (second term) and Varsha Thakre (second term) are the front runners for the coveted post. A senior party leader said Jichkar has an edge over others as she handled the post of city party as president and was also president for BJP’s women cell. Party insider said first time corporator Sumedha Deshpande is also one of the candidate for the coveted post. Party sources said as she is a hard-core RSS worker and very close to union minister Nitin Gadkari, the party may nominate her as a mayor. The name of second time corporator Sangita Girhe is also making rounds. 
 
 Dhurde and Thakre have been elected as second time and both have very clean image. Of the two, Dhurde is very vocal.
 
 However, sources pointed out Tank will not be the first choice for mayor. The party high command may either elect her to the post of standing committee chairperson or she will be given some other important portfolio in the ruling civic body.
 
 Official sources said that the process of filing of nominations would commence from 10 am to 3 pm on March 1 while the scrutiny and withdrawal of nomination papers will be on March 5.
 
 Sources said that polling on March 5 will be begin at 10am while the counting of votes would be held on the same day at NMC’s Town Hall in Mahal.
 
 After election of first citizen, the mayor will carry out the process to elect deputy mayor and standing committee members. 
 
 The total number of eligible voters under Nagpur Municipal Corporation area who can vote in the mayor elections is 151. On the occasion, the civic chief will also administer oath to the new corporators. For the oath-taking ceremony, the NMC has issued notification for holding special general body meeting to be held on March 5.
 
 Meanwhile, elected corporators from both BJP and Congress on Monday have started registering their elections with the divisional commissionerate office.
 
