Mangaluru: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dreams of   is taking shape with railway stations, trains, metro rails and public places gradually turning into wi-fi zones. Adding wings to this dream, a private transporter in Mangaluru, has made his city bus wi-fi enabled.

 The bus that runs between Mangaluru city ( ) and   is now wi-fi enabled. The user ID and password for the free wi-fi has been displayed prominently on a sticker inside the bus. Most of the students prefer to travel in Golden Line (name of the bus) that offer free wi-fi on the go. The owner of the bus is A M Ibrahim, a resident of Natekal and is driven by his son Abdul Rahman.
 
 The concept of providing free wi-fi was conceptualized by Abdul Rahman’s son Ibrahim Thabreez, who is working as an executive of a private export company.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Ibrahim Thabreez said the initiative has been lauded by all passengers, who use smartphones. “The idea of providing free wi-fi for bus passengers was conceptualized after I encountered a network issue while I was travelling a few months ago. That network drop has cost our company a bulk order then. That made me think of providing free wi-fi on our bus,” he said.
 
 He says that with a wi-fi router kept inside the bus, passengers on Thokkottu, Kuthar, Deralakatte, Natekal, Kalkatta, Manjanadi, Montepadavu and Montugoli route get uninterrupted access to  .
 
 “It is very common that we face network issues while we travel. However, the wi-fi of Jio router that we use in the bus provides uninterrupted network. The data is free at present and we will not discontinue the free wi-fi service after Jio commences billing. Our free wi-fi service will continue even after the billing period,” Thabreez said.
 
 “We are getting good response from the people, especially students. They have been appreciating our initiative. A maximum of 31 devices can be connected at a time using the router, which is being charged during halting time,” he added.
 
 He said that the number of passengers has also increased considerably after the bus was made wi-fi enabled.
 
 
