

 Let us get the context clear for those not fully aware. The Indian   leads the counter-terror operations in J&K with the invaluable support of the CRPF and J&K police. 
 
 They have all been at it for 28 years, known the nuances, SOPs and the drills backwards, to flush out terrorists from tricky hideouts in villages and towns. In 2008 with dwindling strength of terrorists the separatist elements under supervision of their Pakistani masters changed tack. 
 
 They adopted street turbulence and stone throwing as a means of remaining relevant. In 2015 they adapted this quite effectively to support the local terrorist cadres in   by generating gathering of stone-throwing flash mobs at encounter sites to prevent the security forces (SF) from optimally conducting their very difficult operations. These operations have precision drills which require immense focus. 
 
 Any action out of line and any loss of concentration can mean fatalities in this dangerous game. 2016 was a particularly bad year for the Army with the ratio of terrorists killed to own fatal losses going askew after many years. In the first few weeks of 2017 the situation seems to be worsening. 
 
 In three operations the ratio slid to as low as 1:1.3 from the average of 1:5 which at times improved to 1:8. The high Army casualties are ascribed to the flash mobs which bring much greater turbulence to an already surcharged environment in surgical operations against holed up terrorists in villages and towns. The context is clarified with mention of the broad concept of operations followed by the Army. The Army believes in the principle of ‘minimum force’, surgical execution, least collateral damage and large-scale use of human-friendly measures to prevent the population adopting a negative stance and supporting the terrorists. 
 
 In such operations keeping the population on its side, as the ‘center of gravity’ of the environment, is an imperative every professional army and all experienced commanders are aware of. The casualties of the Army are higher than others because bulk of the operations are led by it and the actual closing in to the hideouts and destruction is executed by it with assistance of the   (SOG) of the J&K police. 
 
 The Army chief, General Bipin Rawat, himself a highly experienced commander from the  , has led many an anti-terrorist operation. At the wreath laying ceremony for the fallen bravehearts of the Army, the chief decried the trend of high Army casualties due to interference by mobs who, he said, would henceforth be treated as terrorist supporters or over ground workers (OGWs). The statement was received with mixed feelings and perceived as per convenience. Elements within Kashmir media gleefully projected it as declaration of war by the Army against the public at large. Circles within the Army took it as a carte blanche to target anyone considered anti-national. The issue is much more serious and the Army chief, given his wisdom of years, meant neither of the perceptions being touted. 
 
 The chief had a far more nuanced opinion which actually meant that with those obstructing its operations the Army would take tough action; he also promised action against those who had picked up arms against the state saying they may escape today but would meet their end tomorrow. In fact his call should be viewed mainly as being directed towards the youth to actually guide them out of misperception which may lead them to another bout of mayhem, as in 2016. Many are viewing it as a timely warning and advice. The perception being flogged in the Valley needs to be sensibly countered even as the correct position is explained. 
 
 The Army need not define ‘tough’ and must act as per circumstances. It has many friends there made over years because of its inherent fairness and correctness. That moral standing cannot be lost. It’s a challenge for the senior and middle officers. A perception appeared to have built in the existing ‘conflict zone’ (no doubt about the term) that the Army would remain soft with unarmed elements (the stone pelter being perceived as being unarmed). What the chief ’s statement has done is to have put a question mark on that perception. Converting ‘tough’ to reality must remain a much nuanced affair.
 
