PUNE: Panicked by the Supreme Court’s order barring automakers from selling Bharat Stage-III (BS-III) vehicles from April 1, many two-wheeler dealers across the city resorted to deep discounts on Thursday to get rid of their stock of BS-III vehicles.

 While largest two-wheeler maker   offered a discount as high as Rs 12,500 plus free insurance, the second largest two-wheeler maker,   Motorcycles and Scooters India, resorted to a discount of up to Rs 10,000 to free-up the stocks with them.
 
 Bharat Stage or BS norms are emission standards that define the amount of permissible nitrogen oxide, carbon monoxide and other particulate emission levels when tested in standard laboratory conditions. These parameters when measured on road can be and are mostly higher.
 
 Going by vehicle registration data at Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad RTOs, 2.53 lakh two-wheelers were registered over the last 11 months. This comes down to an average of 23,000 two-wheelers per month. Also, commercial vehicle stocks at BS-III levels have also piled up at various dealerships. Most carmakers have transitioned to BS-IV earlier in the city thus minimizing the pile up at their showrooms. The value of this unsold inventory (at an average of one month stock) in the district could well be worth Rs 150-200 crore. Nationally, this inventory value is estimated at about Rs 12,000 crore.
 
 While some automakers, like  , are looking to export their unsold stock, others are looking to re-engineer the vehicles to BS-IV standards.
 
 “For some vehicles, it is possible. All manufacturers have a type approval for BS-IV...if they change they have to get the vehicles certified again,” Rashmi Urdhwareshe, director, Automotive Research Agency of India, said.
 
 S Ravikumar, president (Business Development and Assurance) of Bajaj Auto, said the company can export or make changes but final call will depend upon on the attendant cost. “It is easy for us to export because we have a huge export market,” he said, adding, “Whatever (stock) is left over should be manageable for us.”
 
 Nicky Sehgal, owner director, Sehgal Hero and Sehgal Autoriders, said it is not as if only manufacturers or dealers will suffer. “It is not just as simple a thing as manufacturers taking a hit. Banks have funded about 90% of this inventory,” he said.
 
 What the transition from BS-III to BS-IV means
 
 In case of petrol vehicles, carbon monoxide emissions reduce by 56-130% depending on the category of vehicle, hydrocarbon comes down by 44-50% and nitrogen oxide emissions shrink by 45-47%.
 
 In case of diesel vehicles, carbon monoxide emissions reduce by about 22%, again depending on the vehicle category, while nitrogen oxide emissions come down by half
 
