DOMKAL (Murshidabad): Even as engineers fired the boiler of the 4th unit of the Sagardighi thermal power plant in   on Wednesday, chief minister   held the inauguration programme 60km away at Domkal, slated for municipal elections on May 14.

 “About 50-60 lakh people from this district will get electricity from this project. I have also laid the foundation for the 5th unit, which will be built at an estimated cost of Rs 3,800 crore,” the CM said. 
 
 From development to reassurance following the armed showdown of the saffron brigade, Mamata’s speech had all the elements to woo the residents. “You need not be scared. I am here as your trusted watchdog. I will appeal to you against getting dragged into the riot trap,” the CM told the gathering at Domkal. “The BJP is spending huge money on the social media to influence your opinion. A lot of money is coming from abroad. I would only say we have been groomed in a different culture. Our women have never used talwars (sword). Instead, they fold their hands to say namashkar.” Taking on the BJP without naming it, she went on to say: “Some of them are threatening us, hatching conspiracies. All these do not affect me as long as Ma, Mati, Manush are with me. I stand for sarba dharma samanyaya, following in the footsteps of Ramakrishna and Vivekananda. Let them come to Bengal, we will proceed to Delhi via Bihar, Jharkhand, Ranchi.” 
 
 About Murshibad villages being wiped out in erosion, she said, “The   water sharing agreement was signed when Jyoti Basu was the CM. The Centre had promised Rs 700 crore back in 1992. Since then, MPs, mainly from Congress, hadn’t raised the point. I took up the matter with the PM recently.” The indirect dig was aimed at Congress MP Adhir Chowdhury. She also announced a muslin project, supposed to engage 700 weavers from the district, and a special hub at Beldanga. 
 
 Considering  , who may join Trinamool from Congress, the CM said the state was drawing up a Kandi master plan, urging the gathering to vote for development.
 
 
