GURUGRAM: The detailed project report ( ) for   1, with regards to takeover of its maintenance, was submitted to   by the consultant appointed by the municipal corporation last week. This followed DPRs submitted for   and  .

 In the report, the consultant has pointed out some glaring   in   and violations of layout plan, which are likely to cost around Rs 97 crore. MCG had earlier appointed consultants for all colonies to be taken over, for an infra-gap analysis. “The cost estimate is around Rs 97 crore, but it’s under review. The cost is likely to cross the Rs 100 crore-mark after review,” said sources.
 
 One of the major observations in the report is the colony has not been developed as per layout plans. Sites for parks and green belts are being used for commercial purposes, and the land allocated for a dispensary has been sold to a private hospital.
 
 The report covers an analysis of the existing infrastructure for all basic amenities, including water, sewage and roads. Sushant Lok 1 residents claimed they have been preparing for the rains this year on a war footing for almost a year, and that the terrible condition of roads in their society, noted in the DPR, validates their claims. “No upkeep work has been done on these roads for several years. As a result, many main roads are heavily potholed. These are hazardous to traffic as well as to pedestrians, because of the absence of footpaths,” read the report.
 
 With regards to water supply, the report states there is a shortfall of 10,500 Kl, caused by non-functioning tubewells, leakages and poor upkeep of pumping machinery and pipelines. Of the 18 tubewells in the society, only eight are currently functional.
 
 The residential area has braved acute water shortage throughout summer. “The report validates our claim regarding condition of infrastructure in Sushant Lok 1,” said Neelu Sharma, a resident who has been involved with MCG officials in the takeover process.
 
 Among other things, the DPR has highlighted the poor condition of the sewage system, rain water harvesting and storm water drainage. There are 19 rain water harvesting systems inside Sushant Lok 1, all of which have been termed badly designed and built.
 
 On the sewage system, the report says the impact of sewage backflow into houses during heavy rains is severely felt in grousnd floor houses which do not have plinths sufficiently higher that the road level. The backflow also results in flooding of basements.
 
 MCG officials said they are still assessing the report. Commissioner V Umashankar had earlier told TOI, “The reports have been made public so that residents and developers can access and assess them, and then give us their feedback and suggestions which will be considered by MCG.”
 
 
