

 Poriem  , in Goa’s northeastern   taluka, also lends its name to the   constituency, represented by Pratapsingh Rane, former chief minister and among Goa’s longest-serving politicians.
 
 The village has 5,900 residents, of which 3,600 comprise the electorate. The Bhumika Devi Temple plays a central role in the religious and cultural affairs of the village.
 
 “Though our village has other places of worship like Shri Mahalsa Devi, Shri Ravalnath, Shri Mahadev, Shri Sankhaleswar, Shri Kelbai Devi, people living in all waddas (traditional village wards) pay the highest reverence to Bhumika Devi,” says Laxman Chari, resident of Ranewada.
 
 Located at a distance of 35.7km from Panaji, Poriem, also known as Parye, shares one of its frontiers with Aai village of Dodamarg, in the Sindhudurg district of Maharashtra. The rest of its borders are shared with three villages of Bicholim taluka, including Sakhali, Karapur and Arvalem and four villages in Sattari taluka including Honda, Morlem, Ravan and Cudchirem.
 
 The nine-ward village has traditional wards like Ranewada that includes smaller wards like Ambjhi and Guravwada; Tambidgi that includes Gosavi and Belwada; Majikwada, Chinchamala that includes Aruney wada, Mahalshekar wada, Sawant wada and Golwada; Tulshimala that includes Matwada and Zare wada; and Podocem that includes Talapwada, Madhlawada and Dhatwada.
 
 The village panchayat of Poriem was established in 1986 by separating it from Morlem village panchayat.
 
 Residents’ Speak
 
 Poriem is blessed with hills and plains. It is a beautiful village with greenery depicted by coconut trees and other flora. River Valvanti further adds to its attractiveness.
 
 Laxman Chari | resident of Ranewada
 
 Poriem, famed for its cashew plantations, is carving out a niche for itself in the educational sector, not just in Goa, but nationally and internationally as well. Apart from having the Shri Bhumika Higher Secondary School of Arts, Science, Commerce and Vocational streams, the relocation of the Goa Institute of Management, which ranks among the country’s top management institutes, has given our village national and international importance.
 
 Bhiso Arjun Gaonkar | former sarpanch and resident of Golwada
 
 Sarpanch’s take
 
 The newly-elected ward members of Poriem panchayat will work closely with our MLA Pratapsingh Rane to tackle many challenges, including the erratic water supply issue in Golwada and the critical unemployment concerns afflicting most parts of the village. We would like the state government to set up ecofriendly industries in the village.
 
 Atmaram P Shetye
 
 Renowned Residents
 
 Mahadev Paryekar is the first medical doctor from the village. He has three decades of paediatric and neonatology experience.
 
 Shivaji Rao Rane is the first graduate from Poriem.
 
 Shankar L Chari is the first postgraduate of the village and vice-principal of Shri Bhumika Higher Secondary School.
 
 Laxman Chari is the first engineer from the village.
 
 Late Laxmon Paryekar was a forest officer in the Goa government under the Portuguese.
 
 Vithal Majik is a police sub-inspector, currently posted at Valpoi police station.
 
 Vijay Vilasrao Rane is a police sub-inspector, currently posted at Bicholim police station.
 
 Heritage Trail
 
 Shri Bhumika Higher Secondary School of Arts, Science, Commerce and Vocational: Established at Majikwada in 1992, this co-educational institute features amongst Goa’s top 10 schools when it comes to annual HSSC results. Almost all of its students not only pass the examinations, but many of them secure distinctions in the arts, science, commerce and vocational streams. Its 2017 HSSC batch saw 37 students securing distinction grade, with two students securing 100/100 in the political science and history subjects. The educational institute has been of immense importance to students of Poriem and its adjacent areas, as Sattari taluka lacked adequate educational facilities after SSC. The higher secondary school, along with its adjacent high school and primary school, is owned and managed by Shri Bhumika Shikshan Saunsthan, whose chairman is seven-time MLA Pratapsingh Rane
 
 Bhumika Devi Temple: Centuries-old, the most important place of worship of the village lies adjacent to the village panchayat and is frequented annually by a sea of worshippers for two main festivals - the January zatra, when idols of the deity are taken out in a procession, and Shigmo.
 
 Primary School: One of the important landmarks in the village, it was constructed by the Portuguese in 1959. After 1961, it adopted Marathi as it’s medium of instruction.
 
 Poriem Bridge: Lying close to Bhumika Devi Temple, the bridge was built in 1969 and spans 62m in length. In 2009, it was widened to facilitate two-way traffic. The bridge connects the village to Dodamarg in Maharashtra and other parts of Sattari and Bicholim talukas.
 
 Goa Institute of Management (GIM): Spread over an area of 20 hectares, it is one of the top business schools of India that offers full and half-time MBA programmes. GIM was established in 1993 at Ribandar by Fr Romualdo de Souza. GIM shifted all its full-time courses to the new Poriem campus in 2012.
 
 Podocem water treatment plant: It satisfies the water needs of North Goa. The plant provides contractual employment to the local residents.
 
 Canal: The artificial waterway is pervasive in many parts of the village. Farmers residing nearby use it for irrigating their fields for cultivation of crops and vegetables.
 
 Health Centre: Situated at Majikwada, it hardly sees regular service by doctors. The centre has now become more of a first-aid centre for villagers, who visit the Sakhali primary health centre for all basic health needs.
 
 
