NEW DELHI: Exactly three months after a cop, a gangster and a businessman were gunned down in a crowded market in   Delhi, the special cell of Delhi Police has   the kingpin of the gang behind the murders. Rajes Rajje was nabbed in Karnataka’s Madangir on Wednesday night. The arrest came after a 90-day pursuit by a 20-member-team, led by inspectors Umesh Barthwal, Bhushan and Renu Yadav.

 A manhunt is on for at least six other accused in various places in south India. As reported by TOI on May 26, cops have identified the shooters as Sonu Kejriwal, Sumit Paluthra, Parneet Dabas, Sandeep, Vijay and Praveen Lamba. According to cops, Rajje and his men had executed the plan on the behest of gangster, Sonu Dariyapur alias Satyawan.
 
 “Sentenced to life in the case of   of Devender Coach, a resident of Rohtak, Rajje had jumped parole in July 2016 to eliminate his archrival, Ramesh Lohar. In this pursuit, he joined hands with Sonu Dariyapur to execute his plan. In a quid pro quo, Rajje promised to eliminate Monu Dariyapur,” a senior officer said. 
 
 First, the gang had attacked Lohar when he was brought to a court for a hearing in an attempt to murder case. Though the latter escaped with a minor injury, his henchman was killed. After this, the gang, as promised, started trailing Monu. The shooters stayed at flats in Nihal Vihar, Rohini and Uttam Nagar. They followed Monu for four days with inputs about his movement being given by Parneet Dabas.
 
 On April 29, Monu stopped his car outside a roadside eatery in a west Delhi market. The assailants killed his PSO, ASI Vijay Kumar, shot at another cop and gunned down Monu and his businessman friend Arun Shetty.
 
 Acting on leads provided by Rajje, cops have now intensified their hunt to nab Sonu, who has been absconding for 10 years. He was last arrested in 2007 and jumped parole subsequently. He carries a reward of Rs 1 lakh on his head. Sonu had been on the lookout for Monu ever since the latter wooed his cousin. Since their courtship in 2006, Sonu had made two attempts on his life. 
 
