ALLAHABAD: Prime Minister   assured Chief Justice of India Justice   on Sunday that the government would make efforts to reduce pendency of cases and use technology to make justice delivery system more efficient.

 “I assure the CJI the government will back my ‘sankalp’ (resolve) to bring down the burden on the judiciary and reduce pendency of cases,” the PM said at the 150th anniversary celebration of the Allahabad HC. “I urge those involved with the start-up sector to innovate on aspects where the technology can help the judiciary.” He said that video conferencing should be used for deposition in courts by those facing trial, witnesses, to save time and money, and also reduce anomalies.
 
 “A lot happens between a jail and the court. But now Yogiji ( ) would take care of these things,” he said a lighter vein. The government has already repealed irrelevant 1,200 laws to simplify the judicial system and help raise the standard of quality of arguments.
 
 “When we came to power, we had decided that we would repeal redundant law per day. Our record so far has been better than that.” Quoting former President Dr S Radhakrishnan, the PM said the welfare of the last person of the society was the motto of law. “Let us think about the India when we mark 75 years of Independence in 2022.”
 
 Special guest of honour, Justice Khehar, said if a judge took only five days’ leave during summer vacation, he could resolve more than 100 cases.
 
 Similarly, if all judges skip vacation, thousands of cases could be resolved. Khehar said the   would go digital within 200 days and go paperless in seven months. He said the SC would pick up records electronically from trial courts and HCs. He said he had set up three Constitution benches to hear important matters like triple talaq during summer vacation.
 
 Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said the law ministry was formulating a “National Judicial Policy” and urged the judiciary to release all prisoners who have done 50 years. Yogi Aditya Nath said that the UP government would provide all possible help for infrastructure development and use of information technology.
 
