CHANDIGARH:  , who successfully took on outgoing   chief minister   in the hill state’s recently concluded assembly elections, hails from Haryana. It was his typical Haryanvi dialect which motivated his teammates and supporters during campaigning.

 A politician who has made his position in BJP, Yatishwaranand was youngest in the five siblings born to Risal Singh, a farmer with 80 bighas of land living in Kaimla village of Ghraunda sub-division of Karnal. He left village 18 year ago and was an active RSS member as well as BJP worker in Uttarakhand. “I always said that like me, Rawat ji is also a candidate. He might have used his power, misused official machinery, and done everything else, but I had my electorate, PM Narendera Modi, our organization, and our work in the area behind me. Locals had openly said that they would not accept anybody against me and they proved it,’’ Yatishwaranand said, recalling his campaign.
 
 He said he was a worker of the party and was ready to take up any further assignments. “My organization knows what and when to assign me,” he replied, when asked if expected a heavy portfolio, including that of CM, as he had defeated the CM himself.
 
 Yatishwaranand defeated Rawat by a margin of 12,997 votes from Haridwar Rural constituency.
 
 Gharaunda   Harvinder Kalyan was among the villagers who had been camping in Haridwar for him. “He is a second-time MLA. We stayed there for 15 days during elections. Undeterred by candidature of the CM against him, he just went on with his campaign and used Haryanvi dialect. He never criticized any candidate he just had his own style of campaigning. It was not just campaigning. Even as an MLA in opposition, he would raise his voice,’’ said Kalyan.
 
 Yatishwaranand had joined Gurukul Kangri University after he studied Class 10 at a government school in Gharaunda, Karnal. He did a master’s degree and a doctorate in Sanskrit before joining BJP as a strategist in 1989.
 
 Back in the village, his nephew Naresh recalls his time spent with Yatishwaranand. “All we know is that he has dedicated himself to the country. He still lives in his two-room apartment in a simple way,’’ said Naresh.
 
 
