PUNE: Several tourists and residents of Mahabaleshwar, located about 120km from Pune in the Western Ghat ranges in Satara district, woke up to a rare sight as frozen dew drops threw a white blanket across the popular hill station on Sunday .

 According to meteorologists, the dew-point temperature around the popular Venna lake and Lingmala sites in the hill station was -1.6 degrees Celsius, which may have caused the phenomenon. The precincts of the Venna lake as well as the various peaks, valleys and strawberry gardens, which Mahabaleshwar is famed for, wore a snowy look.At many places, the white cover was thick.
 
 Mahabaleshwar, which served as a summer capital of the erstwhile Bombay prov ince, stands at a height of 1,439m (4,721ft) above sea level and is frequented by tourists from across the country . It is also close to the   hill station. Incidentally, the mini mum temperature recorded in Mahabaleshwar on Sunday was 12.6 degrees C, which was higher than the 9.7 degrees C recorded in Pune.
 
 India Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities told TOI that the phenomenon was different from actual snowfall as is being witnessed in the higher ridges of the northern states like Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. “Compared to these northern states, the temperature in Mahabaleshwar is too warm for snowfall.However, various locations across the hill station may have worn a snowy look because of the frozen dew,“ said a senior IMD official in Pune. Officials from IMD's observatory at Colaba in Mumbai also confirmed that none of their stations in Mahabaleshwar or the surrounding areas had recorded zero temperature, a requisite for snowfall.“These areas have been recording temperatures ranging from 8 to 12 degrees C for the last few days,“ an official said.
 
 Meanwhile, several northern parts of the country including Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir received heavy snowfall, which threw normal life out of gear. Roads were blocked and transmission lines were snapped, forcing people to go without power.The snowfall was preceded by rains and sleet.
 
 Dew and dew-point
 
 Dew occurs as a result of the air gradually cooling overnight. In the late afternoon, the air holds a certain quantity of water vapour (humidity). During a clear night, however, the earth's surface loses radiational heat rapidly and cools. Consequently , the air in contact with the earth's surface is forced to cool while the atmo spheric pressure remains the same. After a certain cooling off period, the air reaches its saturation point. If it cools further, it causes excess humidity that condenses and forms dew.The temperature at which condensation starts occurring is the dew-point temperature.
 
 
