SURAT: A pall of gloom descended on the Diamond City as the   (IAF) plane carrying around seven bodies of Amarnath terror attack martyrs along with 19 injured pilgrims arrived at the Surat airport on Tuesday afternoon. 

 Hundreds of people were waiting outside the airport premises to have a look of the Amartnath pilgrims attacked by the terrorists in Anantnag district. 
 
 Most of them wanted to share their grief with the pilgrims and their relatives, but could not meet them as the security forces drove them amid heavy police bandobast out of the airport. Except for the relatives, media persons and the general passengers, none of the outsiders was allowed to enter the airport premises. 
 
 Emotions were running high as the IAF plane arrived an hour late from its schedule arrival at 12 pm. The relatives of the Amarnath pilgrims, especially those of the injured ones, were constantly inquiring about the plane’s arrival. None of the relatives was given entry inside the terminal building and they kept waiting at the porch without water and food. 
 
 One of the relatives of the deceased had a tussle with the police. He said, “We have not slept since last night as soon as we heard about the terrorist attack on the pilgrims. We arrived from Navsari in the morning and sitting at the porch. Instead of sympathizing with us, the police wanted us to wait at the exit point, where there was no shade.” 
 
 Some BJP leaders were spotted munching on sandwiches and sipping on hot coffee at the terminal porch but there was nobody to look after the relatives of the deceased and the injured who reached early at the airport from interior villages in Valsad and Navsari districts. 
 
 One of the relatives of the Amarnath pilgrims, said, “See these shameless people. I think they must know why they are here. We are standing here without food and water and they are munching on sandwiches and coffee.”
 
 A few BJP mahila wing leaders were spotted taking selfies at the airport along with ambulances waiting to ferry the injured and the pilgrims. 
 
 Chief minister Vijay Rupani along with deputy CM Nitin Patel and BJP president   arrived at the airport at about 12:15 pm. A battery of BJP leaders and ministers, including Ganpat Vasava, received the CM. 
 
 The CM, who was seemingly in a sombre mood, waited for the IAF plane at the airstrip. The coffin boxes were lined up inside the airport. As soon as the plane arrived and the bodies were taken out, the CM paid his tributes along with Deputy CM, BJP state president and other BJP leaders. 
 
 
