SURAT: At least nine people, including two non-resident Indians (NRIs) from Canada, were killed in two separate road accidents that occurred on National Highway (NH)- 8 in   on Friday. 

 The deceased NRIs were identified as  , 61, and his wife  , 50. They were killed in a road accident near Sarodhi village on NH-8 in Valsad when they were going to their hometown in Navsari in a car along with their three relatives, including their soon-to-be daughter-in-law. 
 
 The NRI couple had arrived at Mumbai’s Chattrapati Shivaji International Airport on Thursday night. The NRI couple was received by their close relatives who then started on their journey towards Navsari. The accident occurred at about 4 am when the car driver lost control on the wheels. The car went in the opposite direction after jumping the divider and rammed into a tempo going toward Vapi. The collision was so gruesome that all the six people, including the NRIs, were killed on the spot. 
 
 The deceased were identified as Ankita Hasmukh Gandhi, 23; Mansi Anand Gandhi, 20; Anand Thakorlal Gandhi, 47 — all residents of Billimora — Prakash Pastagiya, Meenakshi Pastagiya and car driver Milan Hasmukh Patel, 23, a native of Navsari. 
 
 The NRI couple was visiting Navsari for the second time in the past few months. Earlier, they had come to fix the marriage of their son Mickey Pastagiya, an NRI from Canada, with Ankita Hasmukh Gandhi. The marriage of their son was scheduled in February. 
 
 Police sources in Valsad said the car driver lost control on the wheels and rammed his vehicle into the tempo which was coming from the opposite side on the highway. At least four bodies were removed from the badly damaged car with the help of a gas cutter. 
 
 “The bodies were shifted to Valsad Civil Hospital for postmortem. The tempo driver, who escaped unhurt, has lodged a complaint against the deceased car driver for reckless driving,” said a police officer. 
 
 Meanwhile, three more persons were killed in another road accident near Valsad sugar factory on NH-8 in the morning. The trio was going on a motorcycle when the bike rider lost control and rammed the vehicle into a transport container parked alongside the road. 
 
 The deceased were Sajanali Mohammed Chaudhary, Mubarak Ali and Sharafat Ali- all residents of Sudhanagar in Valsad’s Abrama taluka. The trio was going toward Pardi when they met with the accident. While two youths died on the spot, the third one breathed his last at Valsad Civil Hospital. 
 
