Gurgaon: Some residents of DLF 1 claimed they spotted a   late on Saturday night on the  , while they were driving to Faridabad.

 Suresh Kumar was driving with his friends to Faridabad to see another friend who is ailing, when the group spotted the leopard crossing the road at around 1am. “It was not more than 100m away from my car. It was huge in size,” he said.
 
 He added the leopard saved itself from getting run over by another car. “It was shocking to see how that car stopped very close to the leopard. The car could easily have run over the animal. Before we could take any pictures, though, the leopard managed to cross the road and disappeared. But I’m sure it was hurt,” said one of Suresh’s friends. 
 
 An extensive search was later carried out by wildlife officials in the area to verify the claims, but no pug marks were found, the said. “We have sent teams to this area several times in recent days, following similar claims by locals. I think these people mistook a jungle cat, a civet cat or even a hyena for a leopard,” district wildlife officer Shyam Sunder told TOI.
 
 Sunder added that wildlife guards are still deployed in the area. “Our team is always present in the area. If any animal was injured in a road accident as claimed, the guards would have found it by now,” he said. 
 
 In 2015, a young female leopard was killed by a speeding vehicle on the same stretch, while it was trying to cross the road. Activists blame the forest department for not taking enough steps to protect wild animals. 
 
 “Gurgaon-Faridabad road has three very sensitive wildlife crossings — near Bandhwari, one going towards Faridabad and the third in Mangar. The department can at least put speed breakers and sign boards as warning. In 2015, the department planned to build bridges and corridors for wildlife near this road, which never happened. The officials of the wildlife department are actually criminals sitting in public office,” said Amit Chaudhery, president of   (PFA), Gurgaon.
 
 He added, “Any wild animal, after getting hit by a vehicle, or even saved by a whisker, can become victim of trauma. Like humans, mental trauma in animals could be fatal."
 
