LUCKNOW: If there was one contrarian note that   and   struck on the first day they appeared together, it was over the other large political force in UP: the  . Even as Akhilesh made light of a question on why the BSP was not accommodated in an alliance that sought to defeat communal forces by saying the BSP “took up too much space, considering their election symbol was an elephant”, Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi, bearing future political equations in mind, said his respect for BSP chief   and the party’s founder Kanshiram remained intact. The SP chief also said he had stopped referring to the BSP chief as ‘buaji’, a term he often used to describe her. 

 Mayawati, with whom the Congress has shared a love-hate relationship, has more than once saved the UPA government when it came to the brink of collapse. In 2010, Mayawati backed the UPA government’s budget when it faced a cut-motion. She also supported Congress nominees Pratibha Patil and Pranab Mukherjee for president. The relations, however, turned sour later after Mayawati led the movement against UPA’s nuclear deal, and opposed the Congress over its attempts to appropriate BR Ambedkar as its own leader in a bid to woo Dalit votes. 
 
 Even though the BSP’s rise in UP has directly eaten into Congress’s own vote share, reducing the grand old party to a minor political force here, Rahul’s comments on Sunday showed he was keen to keep relations cordial despite the shared turbulent history. He said, “The BSP government might have committed mistakes. All governments do. But I personally respect Mayawatiji and Kanshiram ji. It is unfair to compare the BSP with BJP because there is a big difference between them. BJP perpetuates anger and divides people. Their ideology threatens the core of India. Mayawati, on the other hand, does not pose a threat to India’s integrity.” 
 
 To a question on Congress’s earlier foray with BSP in the 1996 assembly polls after which its number of seats decreased, Rahul said, “History is not static and keeps changing. Saying that an alliance in 1996 with BSP was wrong and so it will be wrong this time is not correct. This situation is different, and it is right, strategically, for UP, the country, as well as for the  .” While Rahul’s comments suggested that the Congress was open to an alliance with the BSP in 2019, it also set the stage for talk on the possibility of a post-poll alliance— if the alliance fell short of numbers—to cobble together a government. Even though a SP-BSP alliance is believed to be anathema to many, the SP with Akhilesh at the helm of affairs may also be more acceptable to Mayawati than it would have been with Mulayam on top. 
 
