RAJKOT: Hundreds belonging to the darbar community on Monday took out a 10km long bike rally in   town demanding immediate arrest of those accused of killing former Dhrangadhra municipality president Indrasinh Zala, who was hacked to death on Friday last.

 Police had booked 15 persons for Zala’s murder on Saturday and arrested one of them identified as Jaggi Dangar.
 
 About 2,000 people led by community leader Dr Rudraduttsinh Zala began the rally on two-wheelers from Kshatriya Vadi near Wadhvan and travelled to the Surendranagar collector’s office and submitted a memorandum to him. They also gave a memorandum to Surendranagar superintendent of police and demanded end to violence in the district.
 
 On Monday too, the towns of Surendranagar and Dhrangadhara remained shut throughout the day even as uneasy calm prevailed. Even schools and educational institutes remained closed, said sources.
 
 Some people tried to instigate violence in some parts of Surendranagar and Dhrangadhara, but they were detained and later released by the police. Surendranagar SP Deepak Meghani said that other than some sporadic attempts to instigate violence, bandh was observed in Surendranagar and Dhrangadhra. “We are in pursuit of the accused who will be nabbed soon,” Meghani told TOI.
 
 He also said that the darbar community members in their memorandum have stated that the brutal murder of Zala, one of their leaders, has hurt their sentiments and they wanted strict action against the accused.
 
 However, a source suggested that all accused seem to have fled the district. 
 
 Tension had gripped Dhrangadhara town of Surendranagar since Friday last following brutal Zala’s murder in which two of his family members were also injured. 
 
 Zala, a key accused in the 2012 murder of history-sheeter Popat Bharwad, was out on parole since last 10 days and was returning from Udaipur with his family when he was attacked by the accused near   in Dhrangadhra. The attack was to avenge Bharwad’s murder who too was hacked to death in broad daylight in September five years ago.
 
 Since Friday night the towns of Surendranagar and Dhrangadhra have turned into fortresses with deployment of over 400 security personnel, including two units of state reserve police (SRP), to curb any kind of violence between darbars and bharwads. 
 
 On Friday night miscreants had torched two autorickshaws, bikes and a couple of roadside stalls in Surendranagar town when Zala’s body was being taken there for postmortem.
 
 
