'Linkage'. It is an important word and a more important concept. Especially, when used in the context of monuments and sites across India that are competing to bag the coveted UNESCO World Heritage Site tag. In the very same context are two important precincts from the city ­ the   complex and   ­ which the government and its affiliated agencies have failed to link. Apart from Charminar, the Hyderabad dossier sent for UNESCO's consideration includes the royal necropolis and the fort. But heritage experts feared that unless both precincts are linked, the title may well remain elusive.

 “Both monuments should have a physical and visual connection. They must not be isolated from one another,“ con servation architect  , who has studied such linkages, explains. “The citadel and the necropolis are a part of the same ensemble.The rulers wanted the tombs ­ where their ancestors were buried ­ to be seen from where they were living, which is the Golconda Fort,“ she says.
 
 “There should be physical pathways between the fort and the tombs. The physical linkage can be created from the gateway ­ near  's tomb ­ all the way to the fort,“ another conservation architect, who did not wish to be identified, said.“While the government once proposed to connect the two heritage precincts a few years ago by creating roads and road side cafeterias, the plan did not take off. Only one serious meeting on the subject with top officials was held,“ the source said.
 
 But sources said that a recreation of this physical link may well be possible. In 2014, the Aga Khan Trust for Culture (AKTC), which is working with the   and Museums, unearthed such a connection between the two sites ­ what is popularly known as the Murda Gate of the fort to the southern gate of the Qutb Shahi Tombs.But what exists in between is a major hurdle.
 
 The distance between the two may be a little over 100 metres but a patch of defence land and encroachments which are increasing by the day pose a major challenge. Sources say that AKTC had offered technical assistance to the government to deal with the issue.
 
 “It takes political will to remove encroachments. While they are an impediment to the physical linkage, the visual linkage is being diminished due to these encroachments,“ Naik says.
 
 Experts opine that heritage conservation in the city in general, and the Qutb Shahi Tombs complex and Golconda Fort in particular, is a case of too many cooks. While the necropolis is in the custody of the Department of Archaeology and Museums, the fort is in the custody of the Archaeological Survey of India. The State Wakf Board being a stakeholder has complicated matters in the past.
 
 “Worse, the Quli Qutb Shah Urban Development Authority and GHMC have jumped in.Locals too have sought to bury their dead within the tombs complex several times and this has created problems,“ said an official even as he said that encroachments will be removed on a `war footing'.
 
