NASHIK: While the BJP has already released its party manifesto, the Nationalist Congress Party ( ) and   will announce their election manifestos on Monday.

 On the contrary, the ruling Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) — expected to declare its manifesto on Sunday — has now planned to declare it either in the presence of local leaders on February 16 or during the public meeting of MNS chief Raj Thackeray in the city on February 17.
 
 The   ( ) election is being held for 122 seats on February 21 and the counting of votes will be held on February 23. Now, a total of 821 candidates are in the fray for the civic polls.
 
 The poll campaign, which has already started, will come to an end on the evening of February 19. With only a week remaining, three major political parties NCP, MNS and Sena are yet to declare their election manifestos.
 
 “Our manifesto is ready and we will declare it on Monday. It is to be declared at Rajiv Gandhi Bhavan and it will focus on the works done by the party in the city during its ruling in the state and Centre and also vision of the city for the next five years,” said an NCP leader.
 
 He added, “The manifesto will promise the overall development of the city in line with those of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad.”
 
 The Shiv Sena has already cleared that it will release the party manifesto for the five-yearly civic elections 2017 on Monday when Yuva Sena chief Aditya Thackeray is in the city.
 
 Meanwhile, the MNS on Sunday said it has two alternatives to release the party’s manifesto for civic polls — on February 16 or 17.
 
 Senior MNS leader and spokesperson Avinash Abhyankar said, “Our leader and MNS chief Raj Thackeray is visiting Nashik on February 17 and he will address a public rally at Golf Ground in the evening on the same day. We have two alternatives, either to release the manifesto in the presence of local leaders on February 16 or during the public meeting of our party head at Golf Club ground.”
 
 He added, “The party manifesto will include developmental works carried out by the MNS during the past five years and the possible vision or development of the city during next five years.”
 
