NAGPUR: In the   circuit, a chance to listen old Bollywood songs is not unusual. However, very few music events beckon us to recall our tradition and our roots. ‘Saptasur’ held at Scientific Society Hall, Laxmi Nagar, on Monday evening, brought Maharashtrian musical traditions alive for the lovers of rhythm.

 The programme was put together by Swaranvay, a music school for women from all professions, especially housewives. It was their annual day. The school grooms ladies who fancy singing but may not have got the chance and exposure. In its 13th year now, music teacher Manik Bhende and her group of students presented audience with a variety of songs in Marathi — classical geet, bhaav geet, bhajan, sugam sangeet and others.
 
 The show began with the song ‘He gajvadan’ sung in chorus by the singers. It was followed by Swati Deshpande’s rendition of ‘Hridayi jaga tu anuraga’. Anjali Khanzode enthralled the audience with her song, ‘Kokil kuhu kuhu bole’. ‘Nilya abhali katarveli’ was sung by Piroj Limaye. ‘Saang tu maazach na’, ‘Mann ramta mohana’, ‘Naklat saare ghadle’, ‘Jaa jaa re nako bolu ja na’, ‘Sar sukhachi shravani’, ‘Patang udvit hote’, ‘Mann talyaat malyaat’ and ‘Mann mandira tejaane’ were some of the melodies in the list of over 25 songs.
 
 Devyani Deshmukh, Prutha Ratnaparkhi, Sonali Patkar, Megha Paranjpe, Alka Paturkar, Shilpa Fadnavis and Kamal Thombre were few of the singers who headlined the show. Nearly 50 singers were part of the show, and they sang either solo, duet or in group.
 
 “Bhende Madam has the patience to mould a person into a good singer. She understands weakness and helps improve upon it,” said student and singer Neeta Kerhalkar. Guru Manik Bhende, who runs Swaranvay, was playing harmonium on stage, and she chose to sing the last song of the evening, ‘Chinmaya sakal hridya’ in raag bhairavi, the rhythm she chooses to conclude all her shows with. Women of the group devise a mini programme at their school itself for festivals. They also perform commercially for weddings, birthdays or bhajan events.
 
 Mahendra Dhole handled synthesizer, Gaurav Tanksale played guitar, while tabla was played by Vinay Dhok. Ashok Tokalwar showed his skills on dholki, while Subhash Wankhede was on octopod.
 
 
