PUNE:   will play his record 55th   doubles rubber against   here on Saturday evening. The Indian will do his every bit to win his record 43rd Davis doubles rubber.

 Paes was the best player on view when he played with   against Rafael Nadal and Marc Lopez of Spain in the World Group playoff in Delhi last year. He won't be short on motivation on Saturday .
 
 Paes and Italian legend   are locked at 42 wins and 12 defeats apiece in Davis Cup doubles at the moment (see graphic).
 
 The 43-year-old had played his first Davis Cup rubber in Chandigarh against Japan's Shuzo Matsuoka and Shigeru Ota in 1990. It's a great co-incidence that his first doubles partner in Davis Cup ­ Zeeshan Ali ­ is Indian team's coach now.
 
 “I remember we won 18-16 in the fifth set,“ said Zeeshan. “It was a fabulous initiation of Paes to the Davis Cup. I guess such rousing start has helped him bond well with the concept of playing for the country .“
 
 Paes was just just 16 then and Zeeshan 20. The latter also said that Paes playd in adcourt at the time. Now, Paes is predominantly a deuce-court player as hitting power-packed backhands from the baseline is not his strength.
 
 Interestingly, Paes' doubles association is not limited to just Zeeshan in this tie. He and the Kiwis' non-playing captain Alistair Hunt played as a doubles pair in Junior French Open and Junior Wimbledon in 1990. Asked if he should have continued playing singles, Paes said: “Maybe so 15 years ago. But now, it's a different game altogether.
 
 “Yuki's backhand is 100 times better than mine. Ramkumar's first serve down-the-T is 50 times better than mine.Just looking at Vishnu gives me neck pain. The power, height and technique they have is amazing.“
 
 During the draw ceremony , Maharashtra Governor Vidayasar Rao may have used a questionable analogy when he said “Leander Paes is India's Roger Federer“ even though both have 18 grand slam titles on different planets: singles and doubles. Many are aware that Federer and Stan Wawrinka beat the daylights out of Paes and Mahesh Bhupathi in the 2008 Beijing Games. But do you know Paes-Bhuptahi had defeated Federer and Yves Allegro in the 2004 Athens Games? And Federer was the twice Wimbledon singles champion then.
 
 Paes reiterated that playing for the country and the flag gives him a high. The talk of retirement or stepping aside can wait. At least for time being.
 
 
