KOLKATA: It was a tip-off that came from the city’s red light district — Sonagachhi. A few customers from the area were reported to have bought   and taken ill soon after consumption. As the Enforcement Branch officials began a probe, they found the city market being breached by fake Indian-Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) in the run-up to the Puja.

 Police say a section of hoarders are actually manufacturing, storing and selling liquor, passing them off as popular whiskey and rum brands. While two separate cases in this regard have been lodged at the Burtolla police station, EB officials say they are probing similar complaints from central and south Kolkata areas including Shakespeare Sarani. “We have lodged two cases under cheating and conspiracy and section 63 and 65 of the Copyright Act. The brands which we found compromised were the lower and middle-rung ones. Most importantly, the packaging made it look as if the alcohol was genuine,” pointed out an investigating officer.
 
 The development is not a new one. Kolkata has been part of a pan-India network produces spurious liquor. In 2011, after a gang that ‘manufactured’ well-known Scotch brands in Delhi was busted, police said these fake brands were supplied to Mumbai and Kolkata. “One such player, Narender Chopra who supplied fake bottle caps, stickers and labels, has units in Mumbai and Kolkata too. We believe the   went to these two cities as well. In this case also, we have found the caps to be genuine. It seems the bottling is done in Kolkata but the main brains are operating from somewhere in the two Parganas,” said an investigating officer.
 
 “We won’t be surprised if these bottles get to the big retail outlets. Apparently, the liquor is made with a fine mixture of chemicals without compromising with the original taste and flavour of that particular brand. The labels can also easily pass off as original. The department also found rectified spirit which would have been used to manufacture more such liquor varieties,” said an officer.
 
 “We are sending the samples for a thorough chemical test to ascertain the impurities added to the liquor. They might be extremely dangerous for human consumption. All the men engaged in manufacturing the liquor, however, managed to escape,” he added.
 
 
