The next time you jump a signal and prepare to either speed away or reach for a ‘100 note to ‘settle’ the matter, think again. Big Brother is watching you. And you will be penalised. In a move that’s aiming to curb small-time corruption when it comes to traffic rules, enforce safety and ease matters, Mumbai’s traffic police has kick-started the system of 
e-challans, where after being caught on camera for violating driving norms, you will be sent a message to pay up. This comes two months after Prime Minister   made a move towards cashless transactions. “We have made things cashless from January 1; it was not really done due to demonetisation, but more to ensure that the image of the police is improved,” reveals Joint Commissioner of Police, Traffic, Mumbai,  .
 
 
 
  
  
 The new   system for traffic rule offenders eliminates the traditional book (pavti) system to collect fines. The traffic constable will carry an electronic device in which he will fill the details of the offender (vehicle number/driving license number). An SMS containing details about the offence will then be sent to the registered number. The fine can be paid either digitally on the   website or physically, at registered centres. You can also choose to swipe your credit/debit card on the spot.
  In the CCTV-based system, these screens capture images of the ‘act’ as well as the vehicle number and this is sent to the central command centre to be kept in records. Then, an e-challan is prepared, which includes an image of the vehicle committing the offence, location and a link to pay the fine.
 
 
  
  
 You no longer have to peek out of your car at the corner of the junction to see if a cop is around. The cameras will do the job. And they are tamper-proof. Adds Bharambe, “Today, traffic police 
 ‘100-200 
 . We want to do away with this 
 and avoid conflict. Although our officers work day and night, this was the one issue that brought the traffic police’s image down, so we now hope to take care of that. It’s a clean-cut matter as we will be charging people with evidence. ”
  City traffic officers have welcomed the move and feel this will ease matters. “This new system has eased out many problems like cash handling and excuses. A lot of times, people give excuses of not carrying a wallet, enough money or and even a driving licence. Now, we can still fine them and they can pay later,” said Milind Gavli, a traffic constable at Santacruz. “The data bank will help us find previous records and offences of the offender once we enter his driving licence number in the device,” he added.
 
 The e-challan you receive will have a link where you can pay online. For those drivers who may not use instruments such as debit card or credit card, another mode has been created. Explains the joint commissioner, “We have also tied up with mobile service providers, so people can visit any of the 350 galleries in Mumbai, in order to pay the fine. Also, to do away with any inconveniences initially, we have also opened a place at the traffic 
 to collect fines.” 
 
 
 With a new traffic cops’ web-based app, any citizen can take a picture of an offender and send it to the police. Superstar   was among the first few on Monday to download it. “Mr Bachchan saw this as a great move and said that he would lookout for offenders. I think this will create a movement, as citizens are the best vigilantes,” adds Bharambe. 
 
  
  
 So far, 3,650 complaints have been filed via the app. As per a report:
 
 
 
  If a motorist commits more than four offences, the RTO can suspend the person’s licence. Repeat offenders and those who evade paying the fine will be traced by the police and strict action can be taken against them. 
 “The police command centre will keep data of the offenders and we will watch out for those who have been registered earlier. If a fine hasn’t been paid earlier, it will be marked in an accumulated log and the person will have to pay up,” informs PSI Sajagane, traffic police administrator.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
