NEW DELHI: The usually crowded   streets are full of stalls now, offering a variety of water pistols and colours ahead of   as shopkeepers look to make a quick buck. Among the new additions this year are “currency pichkaris” – water pistols shaped as the new Rs 500 and Rs 2,000 notes — which have been catching the eye of customers, especially children.

 “Children love water pistols like these as they are different. The currency pichkaris have found a lot of takers and we also have designs which include mobile phones and umbrellas,” said Irfan Khan, a vendor at Sadar Bazaar.
 
 The water pistols are as cheap as Rs 10 and can go up to Rs 1,000 in some cases, explained Khan. “Some of the water pistols are imported and are quite cheap, making them popular each year.”
 
 For people interested in colours, unique colour “bombs” and “rockets” have also come up in the market, which can be lit by a matchstick. This makes a spray of colours come out of them. A box of coloured bombs cost Rs 70, while the rockets start at Rs 220. 
 
 “You can place these on a height from where they “rain” colours after you light them up. People are buying it a lot this time, especially for parties,” said Mohammad, a shopkeeper.
 
 Customers hunting the markets for Holi items were also looking for eco-friendly colours with several shops adding them this year along with regular colours. “They are not very expensive and definitely a safer option. My wife has skin-allergies and can only play with such colours. More shops have now started keeping them,” said Amit Vashishta, a customer.
 
 The streets also offered a celebratory ground for some, with people seen applying colours on others after “favourable” election results.
 
 Shopkeepers, however, feel the current weather conditions and elections have affected sales drastically and caused a dampener to the Holi spirit in the last couple of days. 
 
 “Rains have affected sales, and even the election results meant lesser people showed up today. We hope to make it up on Sunday and Monday now,” said  , a shopkeeper.
 
 
