KOTKAPURA: Taking on the Amarinder Singh-led   government in   on Wednesday,   held a ‘vishwasghat pardafash’ (betrayal unmasked) conference in this town of Faridkot. It accused the Congress of not fulfilling various promises made to people, mainly farmers.

 The party also reminded the Congress of its pre-poll promise of farm debt waiver. The entire party leadership of Punjab AAP attended the rally organised by Kotkapura MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan and used the platform to start their campaign for the Gurdaspur   byelection to be held on October 11. Punjab AAP convener and MP Bhagwant Mann and leader of Opposition in the state assembly Sukhpal Singh Khaira made scathing attacks on the Congress and chief minister  , in particular. They termed Amarinder as chief minister in absentia, alleging that he seldom appeared in public.
 
 Mann said that, “Before the assembly elections earlier this year, the Congress had promised a complete loan waiver to farmers and remunerative prices for their crops. The farmers are waiting for the promises to be fulfilled and many of them even committed suicide. The farm suicide cases have increased manifold in the last six months. Instead of providing some relief to farmers, the government has increased the market fee and rural development fund fee on cotton. The Congress had promised jobs to lakhs of youths but played a trick by holding employment fairs, where some private companies employed a few hundred on meagre salaries.”
 
 Khaira accused the government of seeing farmers commit suicide and still doing nothing. “By arresting hundreds of farmers and stopping them from holding a protest in Patiala, the state government has unmasked its anti-farmer face.” Faridkot AAP MP Sadhu Singh said that the Congress government had proved a non-performer and every section of society was feeling betrayed, especially the farming community. Kotkapura MLA Sandhwan said the ruling party had failed on all fronts and people were now looking towards AAP. 
 
