MEERUT: Residents of Hapur and Bulandshahr may have to wait a little longer before   as   officials say that no company has sent in proposals to run bikes in the two zones.
 
  The Uttar Pradesh   (STA) recently gave a clearance to operators for running bike taxis in the Ghaziabad region, which includes Hapur, Bulandshahr, Noida and Ghaziabad. While Ghaziabad and Noida already have pending applications from operators, Hapur and Bulandshahr regions are yet to receive any application in this regard. Authorities say that it will take time for the scheme to gain popularity in the region.
  
  “We have not got a single proposal for bike taxis so far. One of the main reasons is that Bulandshahr is a rural built, where such initiatives will take time to gain popularity, unlike metro cities like Ghaziabad and Noida,” said Surendra Singh, assistant regional transport officer (ARTO), Bulandshahr.
  
  The clearance for the scheme came after Uttar Pradesh transport commissioner K Ravinder Naik issued a circular directing state transport authority to issue permit to operators interested in running bike taxis in cities across the state. So far, STA has given a nod to Ghaziabad region.
  
  Manoj Sharma, a resident of Hapur, ecstatic about the move, said, “I am really glad that UP is planning to bring in bike taxis in some districts. I really hope that this plan works out well. Though, it is not a big city and cabs are not a hit here because travelling in a car means you are sure to get stuck in traffic, but two-wheelers would really be helpful - specially for those who do not own one.”
  
  A total of 17 guidelines have been laid down by the transport department for operators looking to run bike taxis in the region, including mandatory use of crash helmets for pillion riders. It will be interesting to see if people follow these guidelines as bikers wearing helmet here is a rare sight.
  
  With 23,219 deaths in a year, UP reported the highest number of fatalities in road and rail accidents. The state is followed by Maharashtra (18,404 deaths) and   (17,376 deaths). The figures include deaths in road and rail accidents, which are together referred to as ‘traffic accidents’. In 2014 too, UP reported the highest number of combined road and rail fatalities by any state in the country at 20,653, of which 16,284 were killed in road accidents alone.
  
  In Hapur, too, the response remained poor. SS Singh, ARTO, Hapur, said, “No proposal has come for the bike taxis so far. I believe the trend is catching up, but will take time to be implemented in Hapur and other cities, which are not much dependent on cab services unlike Delhi. There are chances that once the services get on road in Noida and Ghaziabad, operators will try to expand here. But nothing much can be said until we get such proposals.”
