Mumbai: Brothers Shashi and  , who control the   Group, have agreed to sell their   business —   — to Singapore-based investment firm Capital Square Partners for $300 million. This will mark Essar’s exit from the BPO business, which the group entered in 2004.

 The deal will help the steel-to-shipping group pare debt, which stands at around $12 billion. All approvals are expected to be in place by the end of the first quarter of this fiscal. 
 
 Aegis has revenues of $400 million and employs more than 40,000 people across 47 centres in 10 countries. India accounts for 25% of the firm’s revenues. The group entered the BPO business through the purchase of US-based Aegis, which then had revenues of $60 million and 1,000 employees. Three years ago, it started to monetise its investments in the BPO business by selling part of the unit — Aegis US, Philippines and Costa Rica — to France’s Teleperformance for $610 million.
 
 Essar has said that the group’s consolidated debt of $12 billion will see further reduction when the sale of its refining business to Russian energy giant Rosneft is completed. The Mumbai-based enterprise will sell the refining unit, Essar Oil, for $12.9 billion, including debt of about $5 billion.
 
 The (Aegis-Capital Square) transaction is in line with the group’s strategy of incubating and building businesses and then monetising them at a premium when the market conditions are favourable, said Uday Gujadhar, director, Essar.
 
 Founded by Sanjay Chakrabarty, Capital Square has investments in Indecomm Global Services, a Bengaluru-based outsourcing company. The private equity firm is best known for its acquisition of Minacs from Aditya Birla group in 2014. The fund subsequently sold Minacs to Concentrix, netting big gains from the transaction. Chakrabarty is married to actress Rituparna Sengupta.
 
 Interestingly, Capital Square’s operating partner Aparup Sengupta was the CEO and MD of Aegis. Sengupta had led Aegis’ transformation from $60 million revenues in 2004 to $1 billion in 2012.  ,   and Sidley Austin advised Essar on the transaction, while Shearman & Sterling and Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas assisted Capital Square.
 
