If you have been among the few to embark on an air-conditioned commute to-and-from home to work, you might have to get ready to let go of that luxury. The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply & Transport Undertaking (BEST) is planning to phase out AC   on the city roads, as soon as is possible. Affirms  , general manager  , Mumbai, “Yes, we have proposed this to the committee with immediate effect. There are a quite a few reasons that prompted this move. Keeping in mind passengers who have already purchased passes, we have to give at least a month before the phase-out."

 
 
 The corporation has been mulling over pulling out these buses owing to several factors. Patil explains, “Two major reasons that come to my mind are the condition of the bus fleet and the lack of punctuality. When it comes to a road journey you are not assured of reaching your destination on time. The congestion on the roads also affected travel by the   buses. Mumbai needs a dedicated corridor for AC and non-AC buses to ensure that passengers arrive on time. Since these buses get stuck at the signals, people are unable to ascertain the time it will take them to reach their destination. When it comes to the railways, Mumbaikars know the exact time they will take to go from place A to B by the local train. We need the same when it comes to the bus commute. The need is to hire smaller buses and have a more effective passenger system.” 
 
 Another huge factor is the operational cost. “Today, we have about 202   on the city roads. Compared to the ideal capacity of 60,000 people, they carry just 20,000. It's a big loss for us. The footfalls have reduced considerably even for the regular non AC buses. We were carrying more than 35-46 lakh passengers a few years ago, now it fallen to just 27-28 lakh passengers per day in non-AC buses. We hope that dedicated corridors will counter that," he adds. 
 
 
 
 Says Manoj Varade, official from the BEST, “We can’t understand what went wrong with the AC buses? Also, the psychology of passenger is hard to gauge. They were happy about the AC fleet when it was first introduced, but the numbers have drastically fallen since. Having lesser patrons started to affect operational costs. The AC buses were started for passengers' convenience and to reduce pollution due to the rising number of private vehicles on the roads. Last year, we reduced AC bus fares by 50%, organised special routes for corporate and did a ladies-special AC bus. We also conducted a passenger survey, but we did not get enough response. We had to consider the burden of expenditure, including spending on keeping the buses clean, maintenance, buying spare parts, manpower, including salaries of the drivers. If only four to five people sit in a single bus, it will cause a huge loss to us.”
 
 
 
 With the scorching heat almost upon us, would it be wise to withdraw the buses? Citing helplessness, Patil asks, "What can we do? Mumbai needs AC buses, but unless they get a dedicated road space it is difficult to operate them.” For Nimisha Mehta, a student who takes the route from Backbay to Dahisar, the proposal to phase-out the fleet has left her disappointed. “I used to depend on it. And though there are delays, it’s still a more comfortable way to get home. At least, I get to sit, unlike the trains,” she says. 
 
 Adds Farhan Usmani, automobile expert in Prabhadevi, who took the AC bus to Lokhandwala and back for eight years, “The buses were in a better condition earlier, but with time their condition deteriorated. It’s like they are almost in the grave now – slow, pathetic and with bad lighting. We also landed up with headaches and backaches after every trip. For a commute that lasts two hours, we want better service, especially since we pay a higher fare (Rs 110 each way) than the normal bus fare.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The iconic red BEST bus that’s so synonymous with Mumbai has just got a major revamp. It now has an in-bus passenger announcement system, a central air circulation system, the first-ever automatic, clutch-free transmission for drivers, eight mobile charging points for passengers, an emergency exit door and a larger gap between seats. There is a proposal for Rs 4 hike in ordinary bus fares and you can now travel for a month on a 24-day pass.
 
 
