KOLKATA: The city and its immediate fringes witnessed six accidents that killed three and injured seven others in the last 24 hours. Only a day ago, Kolkata Police held a press conference stressing on their achievement in cutting down road accidents during the Safe Drive Save Life campaign.

 Around 11.30am on Saturday, Vineet Kumar Chowhan (19), a resident of  , was riding his scooter near Kakurgachi on CIT Road when a car coming from Ultadanga hit him from behind. Though Chowhan was wearing a helmet, it was probably not strapped properly. As a result, the helmet came off his head when he fell on the ground. As he lay bleeding, the car sped past him before cops and locals could note down its number. Chowhan was taken to R G   where he was declared dead on arrival. Later in the evening, locals blocked Maniktala crossing to protest against the incident. 
 
 Around 12.40pm, the two-wheeler of Mirpuri Pawan Sunil (38), a resident of Vizag who lives in Kolkata in connection with his job, was hit by a lorry at Hyde Road near Jain Kunj. He was taken to SSKM where doctors declared him brought dead.
 
 On Friday night, a 45-year-old schoolteacher, Anil Roy, was mowed down by a truck at Shalimar while he was returning home from tuitions. Police said Roy was walking along Dedendra Ganguly Road when the truck hit him from behind. Police took him to a local hospital where he was declared dead. Police have seized the truck but the driver is absconding.
 
 In another incident on Saturday, three persons were injured when an app cab carrying two passengers hit a cyclist and rammed into a median divider on EM Bypass near Ruby rotary around 7.30am. The cyclist and two passengers at the back seat suffered serious injuries and were admitted to a private hospital. The driver was later arrested from Kasba.
 
 Also on Saturday morning, a car turned sideways at Karunamoyee crossing in   when it skipped a red signal and was hit by a matador coming from opposite direction. The woman driving the car was injured. The woman didn’t suffer severe injuries because she had her seatbelt strapped. Later in the day, three persons in a car were injured after a state bus hit it on Vidyasagar Setu. Both the vehicles were heading towards Kolkata when the   took place around 3.30pm. 
 
