PUNE: The anger over perpetual out-of-cash ATMs in Pune has started to boil over.

 On the intervening night of Sunday and Monday, an unidentified person or a group vandalised a   kiosk in the Sangvi area after finding it “out of cash”.
 
 Arvind Jonddale, inspector of the Sangvi police station, told TOI that they will make use of the CCTV footage to zero-in on the culprit/s after receiving a formal complaint from   officials. “If the bank fails to lodge a complaint in another 24 hours, we will register the case suo moto for further action,” he said.
 
 Talking about the incident, Jonddale said, “The angry suspect/s broke the screen of the cash dispensing machine after finding it to be out of cash.”
 
 He said the bank had not deployed a security guard at the kiosk. “We have repeatedly told banks to deploy security guards at ATMs,” he added.
 
 When contacted, an SBI official said they will assess the situation at the   before lodging a complaint. 
 
 Many ATMs across the city remain without cash and the problem has become acute especially over the past 10 days. 
 
 While bankers said they can only put cash when provided, the RBI on its part maintained that there is no shortage of currency.
 
 “We are not getting enough cash from the RBI. It looks like the   has tempered supply to push digital transactions,” a senior public sector banker said.
 
 It is estimated that at least over 70% of all the banks’ ATMs are currently out of cash. The RBI deputy governor S S Mundra had on Saturday said this is a “transient” phase because of the financial year-end closing.
 
 “It is not a permanent problem because we have been tracking ATMs on a day-to-day basis and even around mid-March, we found that 85% of the ATMs across the industry were operational. This is not very different from the general average,” he had said.
 
 In the fortnight ended March 17, 2017, the currency in circulation with the public was 7.3% higher than what it was on March 3, 2017. RBI data shows that growth in currency in circulation with public slowed in March compared to February.
 
 In the fortnight ended February 17, 2017, the growth in currency in circulation was 8.5% over February 3, 2017. 
 
