MUMBAI: Even as leading artistes queued up at Ravindra Natya Mandir on Tuesday to pay their last respects to one of Maharashtra's most respected artistes,  , who had passed away on Monday night, many public figures were conspicuous by their absence.

 Amonkar, 84, a recipient of the Padma Bhushan in 1987 and Padma Vibhushan in 2002 for her contribution to Indian classical music, passed away at her Prabhadevi residence. Her body was kept at Ravindra Natya Mandir for those who wanted to pay their last respects. The only politicians present were BJP leader and education and cultural affairs Minister Vinod Tawde and former MNS legislator  . “She was a great classical vocalist, her contribution was unparalleled. I was there in my capacity as a cabinet member as well as a representative of the state government.It was decided to accord a state funeral and accordingly, all laid-down protocol norms were followed,“ Tawde told TOI.
 
 It was expected that Governor   Rao, chief mi nister Devendra Fadnavis, mayor Vishwanath Mahadeshwar, NCP president   and other senior leaders of Congress,  , NCP, BJP, the local MP, legislators and councillors would join in paying tribute, but no one turned up. Vidyasagar Rao was in Chennai for the swearing-in ceremony of the new chief justice of the Madras high court, while Fadnavis was in Chandrapur, hometown of finance minister   for the inauguration of a hall constructed in memory of former CM M S Kannamwar and a library in memory of Shyama Prasad Mookerjee. As for leaders of Congress and NCP, many were in Panvel for the Sangharsha Yatra to demand loan waiver for farmers.
 
 Vidyasagar Rao sent a condolence message, while Fadnavis recalled Amonkar's contributions on Twitter. Former MNS councillor Sandeep Deshpande expressed shock and surprise over the absence of politicians. “It's indeed unfortunate that senior cabinet members and politicians did not feel it necessary to pay their last respects to Amonkar. It was expected that at least the mayor Mahadeshwar, the first citizen of Mumbai, would attend the funeral, but he too skipped it. Probably, politicians thought that there was no vote bank, so there was no need to attend the funeral,“ Deshpande said.
 
