Mysuru: Though it’s been six weeks since classes resumed, thousands of students of many city   don’t have many textbooks. With the first class tests around the corner, students, parents and teachers are worried as non-availability of   could affect the students' performance. 

 According to L Savitha, principal, Kautilya Vidyalaya, her students are yet to get Kannada language textbooks for four classes. "In all, 112 textbooks are required for class 4 students. 55 textbooks for class 6, 60 textbooks for class 9 and 55 textbooks for class 10 are yet to reach us," she said.
 
 Santosh Kumar, administrator, Shanthala Vidya Peeta, said his school is facing a similar problem. "We are yet to get Kannada and Social Science textbooks for several classes. Class 10 students, for whom even a single mark is very important, are yet to get Social Science Part 2 books. We are struggling to ensure enough textbooks for all our students," he said.
 
 The headmaster of a government upper primary school from Mysuru Rural area, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said government schools are facing the same problem. "Parents assume that our faculty didn't try to get textbooks on time. A few students have been provided with last year's textbooks. But as these were revised, we can't ask students to depend on them for tests. We’ve been waiting for information about the textbooks,” he said.
 
 S Y Sugosh Kumar, the parent of a class 9 student from Lakshmipuram said the education department must intervene immediately. "My son has not received his Social Science and Kannada textbooks. We’re worried about the quality of textbooks following the delay in distribution and controversies surrounding revision of textbooks. When CBSE/ ICSE students are provided with all learning and study material before the commencement of the new academic year, state syllabus students face all kinds of problems," he said.
 
 When contacted, B K S Vardhan, DDPI, Mysuru said within a couple of days, all students will get textbooks in their schools. "These textbooks have been dispatched from Bengaluru. Parents, students and school heads need not worry," he said, adding, "On Thursday, I held a meeting with all Block Education Officers about this issue. We are facing only 15% textbook shortage and 85% of textbooks have been distributed," he said.
 
 Primary education minister   was not available for comment.
 
 
