NEW DELHI: Since its inception in 1998, the   Champions Trophy has been a see-saw ride for the Indian cricket team. They have made the final thrice - winning in 2013, losing in 2000 and being declared joint winners with Sri Lanka in 2002 - and have contested some memorable matches along the way. 

 Here’s a look back at how past Indian teams have fared at the Champions Trophy. 
 
 
 
 The inaugural edition of the tournament featured eight teams. India's campaign opened with a fixture against Australia where   continued his marvellous batting against the Aussies by single-handedly dominated with a match-winning 141 off 128 deliveries. India piled up 307 to which Australia fell short by 44 runs. Their next game against West Indies was the semi-final which the team lost thanks to some superb bowling by pacer Mervyn Dillon who sent Tendulkar and skipper Mohammad Azharuddin back cheaply. Brian Lara (60) along with Shivnarine Chanderpaul (74) made a target of 242 look easy and crossed it in 47 overs with six wickets remaining. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The new millennium dawned upon Indian cricket under a new leader in Sourav Ganguly. The tournament was held in Kenya and marked emphatic debuts from Zaheer Khan and Yuvraj Singh. Indian made short work of Kenya in the league game registering a comfortable eight-wicket win with Zaheer picking up three wickets in his debut outing. The quarter-final against then world champions Australia was a closely fought contest and had many unforgettable instances. 
 
 Tendulkar's brutal assault on Glenn McGrath derailed the Aussie bowlers early on in the innings, which paved the way for Yuvraj's memorable 84* in his debut innings. Zaheer then produced a picture-perfect yorker to dismiss skipper Steve Waugh which finally sealed the match in India's favour. Next up, India beat defending champions South Africa by 95 run thanks largely to Ganguly's unbeaten 141 and some excellent seam bowling from Zaheer. Going into their first final, India squared off against New Zealand who were coming off 65 and four-run victories against Zimbabwe and Pakistan respectively. Ganguly continued his magnificent run with 117 but it was the Kiwi allrounder Chris Cairns who came out as the real star with an outstanding 102*. Coming in at 109 for 4, Cairns Chris added 122 runs for the sixth wicket with Chris Harris and guided New Zealand home in a tight finish.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Sri Lanka hosted the third installment of the tournament. With five months to go for the 2003 World Cup, India saw this as the ideal platform to gear up for the extravaganza. They were high on confidence with the Natwest Final behind their back a couple months earlier. Playing without a sponsor, India started off on a positive note against Zimbabwe riding on Mohammad Kaif's maiden ODI century. His 111* came at a time when India were in a spot of bother having lost five wickets for 87. In reply, Zimbabwe tried hard but couldn't get past the line despite Andy Flower's 145. 
 
 The 11 match saw India make a mockery of England's total of 269. Virender Sehwag, who was beginning to make a mark in world cricket, was in murderous form and was sent up the order to open the innings with skipper Ganguly. Both openers scored hundreds and went on a rampage smashing the English bowlers all over the Premadasa. Ganguly (126) and Sehwag's (117*) helped India chase down the target in just 39.3 overs and book a semi-final birth. 
 
 
 
 
 South Africa had played some inspiring cricket themselves and facing them in the semis was a tough nut to crack. India started their innings with Sehwag once again getting into the thick of things scoring 59 and later Yuvraj's 62 helped put up a competitive 261. South Africa began the chase well and were soaring at 192 for 1 but once Herschelle Gibbs (117) leftthe field due to dehydration and cramps, South Africa slumped to 247 for 5. Sehwag picked up three wickets which allowed India to hold their nerves and make their second successive Champions Trophy final. Rain played spoil-sport in the final which was contested twice and India were declared joint-winners with Sri Lanka.
 
 
 
 India had an unforgettable World Cup campaign the previous year and many expected the team to continue the good work from South Africa. But it was not to be. India's opener against Kenya was a one-sided affair at The Rose Bowl courtesy a solid 90 from Ganguly - who led India in a third consecutive edition. However, they lost to arch-rivals Pakistan in a game that saw India's batting collapse being bundled out for 200. Rahul Dravid, who top-scored with 67, had quite a few confrontations with paceman Shoaib Akhtar. Defending their total, India started off well as Irfan Pathan removed the first three Pakistan batsmen with just 27 on the board, thus continuing his glorious form against India's neighbours. Yousuf Youhana's unbeaten 81 along with Inzamam-ul-Haq's 49 stabilized the innings and Pakistan reached won in the last over to bring down the curtains on India's campaign. 
 
 
 
 When the Champions Trophy came to India in 2006, many believed it to be the host's best chance to lay hands on the coveted prize. But sadly, the team was marred by the Greg Chappell-Ganguly controversy and Tendulkar's dip in form. The edition had participation from all 10 Test playing nations and India were grouped with West Indies, England and Australia. They first played England in Jaipur where the bowlers dismissed England for just 125 which India chased with four wickets in hand. Next up, they suffered a close loss at the hands of Brian Lara's West Indies after an all-round display of skills. 
 
 To qualify to the semis, India needed to beat Australia in Mohali. India batted and managed 249 thanks to half centuries from Sehwag (65) and skipper Dravid (52), along with some handful contributions down the order. However, half-centuries from Shane Watson, Ricky Ponting and Damien Martyn acted as the final nail in the coffin and India were ousted without making it to the semis for the second consecutive occasion.
 
 
 
 Played after a gap of three years, the tournament went to South Africa - where India had fond memories of the 2003 World Cup. A lot had changed as India, under the leadership of  , had started to dominate and had victories in Australia and New Zealand. But their first game against Pakistan was a bitter disappointment. The Indian bowlers were hammered, and their spinners Harbhajan Singh and Yusuf Pathan went for 127 runs in 20 overs. Shoaib Malik scored 128 off 126 deliveries and was supported immensely by Mohammad Yousuf (89). India started off the chase nicely with Gautam Gambhir going strong at the top, but the rest of the batting crumbled due to some discipline bowling from Pakistan. Dravid (76) and Suresh Raina (46) tried but India eventually fell short by 54 runs. The second game against Australia was a wash out after the Aussies put up 234 for 42.3 overs which further dented India's chances of qualifying to the semis. India thrashed West Indies in the next game at Johannesburg with a seven-wicket win but it wasn't enough as Pakistan and Australia made it to the semi-finals with a couple of wins each. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 In what was then deemed by the ICC to be the final edition of the event, India beat England in a T20 thriller to give India their second title. India's successful campaign was led by a red-hot Shikhar Dhawan, who compiled an astonishing 363 runs at an average of over 90. He slammed his maiden ODI century in India's opener against South Africa and carried his form in next second match against West Indies with another century. The much-awaited clash against Pakistan saw India claim a hat-trick of wins on the back of a clinical performance by their bowlers, who skittled out the opposition for 165. 5. Rain threatened the outcome, but India were declared winners through the D/L method.
  
 The semi-final pit India against Sri Lanka, in which three wickets each by Ishant and R Ashwin restricted the opposition to 181. India romped home by eight wickets with half-centuries from Dhawan and  . Incessant rain reduced the final to a 20-over fixture, where India were limited to 129 with Ravi Bopara claiming 3/20. In reply however, England slipped to 4/46 before Bopara and Eoin Morgan staged a comeback with a 65-run alliance. Ishant came back to remove both batsmen off successive deliveries to squeeze the life out of England's chase, Ashwin successfully defended four off the last ball and Dhoni, in a rare show of emotions, jumped in glory to celebrate his third ICC tournament win
 
 
