MUMBAI: England may have suffered a 4-0 hammering in the recent Test series against India, but limited-overs cricket is a different ball game for them, quite literally. After all, they've won five out of their last seven ODI series dating back to June 2015.

 Even their T20 performance has been nothing short of extra-ordinary. If it weren't for Carlos Brathwaite's four straight sixes in the final of the World T20 last year, England could have very well been the ones holding the trophy. If that wasn't enough, four of their players - skipper  , vice-captain  , Sam Billings and David Willey - have had some match-time having played in the ongoing Big Bash League Down Under.
 
 So, as the visitors gear up to play India in the first of three ODIs on January 15, there's a positive feeling within the England dressing room.
 
 "In the past we've found that whatever format came second, there was a general improvement within the tour. So hopefully that happens again," said skipper Morgan when TOI met up with him and Buttler in an exclusive interaction on Sunday at Hyper City, Malad as part of an event organized by Waitrose, the official sponsor of England national team.
 
 Not even   taking over the reins from MS Dhoni could bother them a bit, according to Morgan.
 
 "It doesn't really affect us. He's not captaining our team. He's not playing in our team. Our focus is only about our team, about how well we are playing. And when we play well, we are very hard to beat." England's performance in limited-overs has been on an upswing since   took over as coach, and Buttler said it's because he brings a lot of positivity. "I think his (Bayliss) character has rubbed off a bit on us. Eoin's captaincy too. The two of them have worked together really well in driving forward the way they want the side to play. And the team has been quite receptive to that. The message is always to focus on the positive side and focus on ourselves." Their camaraderie was on display as they interacted with kids in the mall. No wonder they've had such great batting partnerships in their national colours.
 
 "Both our characters I think suit batting together. We love spending time in the middle and we play in a similar fashion. We want to attack the bowlers and know each other's game pretty well. We help each other from the other end and give advice, so yeah, it's good to bat with the captain," said Buttler.
 
 Morgan said it's more of an honour to bat with Buttler. "Batting with Jos (Buttler) you know, no matter who you are, you are quite lucky to be at the other end. He's had some unbelievable innings for us. So any opportunity to bat with him I think is a pleasure," said the skipper.
 
