Kalyan: A group of residents of a private township in   recently caught a bunch of   who had entered the complex for some together time, accused them of indecent acts and made the young men among them do sit-ups. The vigilantes recorded the incident and even took selfies while meting out the punishment, which soon went viral on social media.

 The police arrested three residents, Yogesh Patil, Shailesh Kurle and Shreekant Shinde, on Wednesday. The three were later released on bail.
 
 The residents said   students from outside the residential complex would bunk classes and land up in a garden right next to a school. They said the couples would cosy up in a way that the residents found obscene, especially as it was in plain sight of children from the Pawar International School inside the township. They said the lovers came from colleges in Dombivli and Mumbra and had often been warned before, even by women in the township.
 
 Residents said the Palava City Managment Association that looks after the security in the township did not act on their complaints about the couples, who they said entered the complex from a mall on its edge.
 
 On Wednesday, the residents rounded up all the couples, took down their phone numbers and made the males do sit-ups while recording it and posting it on social media. The   clip made the Manpada police station officials sit up and take notice. By evening, three residents seen punishing the couples in the video were arrested. 
 
 “The residents did not complain about any obscene act to the police and took the law in their own hands,” senior police inspector Gajanan Kabdule said. “It is because of this that we arrested them.”
 
 Yogesh Patil, one of those arrested, said that in the past few months the “obscene acts” had increased and it had become difficult for children and women in the township to pass the spot. “We even had warned couples, but there was no change and so we took this step,” he said.
 
 A resident, Shakeel Shaikh, said the mall opened at 10 am but the college couples would start gathering outside it right from 7 am. “Our kids complained about it,” Shakeel said. 
 
 The police said they had now decided to start patrolling the area. 
 
 Reacting to the incident, NCP politician Nawab Malik said moral policing “cannot be tolerated in Maharashtra” and demanded that the government take action in the matter.
 
