DEHRADUN: With the elections just round the corner, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) war room at its state headquarters here has become a beehive of activities, where three teams comprising as many as 40 people are busy with tasks like seeking permissions for rallies,  ,   and   to keep the   alive and ticking everyday.
 
  For Varun Tiwari, a member of the social media team, who is in his early 20s, his day starts at 9 am with reading almost all newspapers to check the political-pulse of the state.
  
  “It helps plan and generate contents, graphics, photos and videos for the FB (Facebook) page of the party. The content is generated here, but uploaded on the page and issued on other platforms only after approval by the party headquarters in Delhi,” said Tiwari, who recently moved to Dehradun from Delhi to bolster the party’s social media wing.
  
  Rajeev Agarwal, another member of the social media team, said, “In the digital campaign planning, both content and timing are vital. Our target is more than 10 to 20 posts a day to reach out to maximum number of people.”
  
  In the ongoing campaigning, the thrust areas are FB lives, photos and short video clips of star campaigners. The war room’s nerve centre, however, is the poll planning and monitoring unit led by BJP state vice president Jyoti Parsad Gairola and his team, who beaver away for hours to make sure that “everything falls in place.”
  
  Gairola said, “My day starts at 8 am, and the first in my to-do list is checking the status of works assigned to everyone across 70 constituencies. It could be anything like campaign materials, opening of election offices, logistics or taking feedback from the teams of full-timers (purnkalik).”
  
  Throughout day, Gairola remains busy giving instructions to cadres over phone about various tasks. Since he is also heading the strategy wing, all documentations like ‘aarop patra’ (charge sheet) are penned downed for all the 70 constituencies under his guidance, which will act as a blueprint for the micro-level campaigning.
  
  The third wing of the war room is a committee headed by BJP leader Puneet Mittal, which deals with the issues related to the state election commission. “All communications, including complaints against rivals and raising objections to different matters, are looked after by our wing, which involves meeting the state election commissioner to vent our grievances.”
  
  The recent transfers of Haridwar district magistrate Harbans Singh Chugh and senior superintendent of police Rajeev Swarup were purportedly due to the constant badgering of this wing.
  
  Mittal said, “The team scrutinises all the activities of our rivals and keep the state election commission informed about violations of the model code of conduct by them.”
