CHENNAI: Chennai is all set to host the inaugural   to be held next month. The invitational annual Champions Cup, which will feature an Asian, African and a North American country in addition to India, is aimed to replace the  , which was last held in 2012.

 With the likes of Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Goa, Guwahati and Kerala hosting the under-17 World Cup, Bangalore and Chennai were the two contenders to host the event. But, according to   ( ) president Jesiah Villavarayar, the 35,000-odd capacity and better infrastructure facilities of the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium sealed the deal for Chennai. “The stadium facilities are of international standard and it was a plus point for us. The training facilities at the Nehru Park are also of the highest order. So the All India   Federation (AIFF) gave us the nod. The only concern is the condition of the ground. But renovation work is already underway,” Villavarayar told TOI on Tuesday.
 
 Even though Chennai has got the nod, Villavarayar knows that a lot of work needs to be done on the Nehru Stadium pitch which is in really poor state after hosting as many as 120 matches of the Chennai Football League from February to April earlier this year.
 
 It also doesn’t help with Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu (SDAT) — the body in charge of the stadium — often renting out the stadium facilities for school and university meets. But the TNFA president sounded confident that the work will be completed ahead of time. “It would be a lengthy process if SDAT had to do the renovation work since they had to call for tenders and get other permissions. So AIFF, themselves, have appointed two-three consultants who will renovate the pitch. We have informed SDAT and they have us green light. AIFF will be closely monitoring the work,” said Villavarayar.
 
 Afghanistan confirm participation: A top AIFF official informed that Afghanistan and St Lucia have already confirmed their participation. “The tournament will feature an Asian, African and a North American country, in addition to hosts India. While Afghanistan and St Lucia have given their nod, we are yet to finalise the African team,” the official said.
 
 
