Nagpur: Next week, there will be a change of guard in Nagpur University, but not in literal sense. This change pertains to security guards manning NU’s various campuses. The university recently inked a pact with Maharashtra State Security Corporation (MSSC) for securing its various premises. “Many government establishment avail their services across the state and in city as well, like Government Medical College and Hospital,” an elated vice chancellor SP Kane told TOI.  Over the years, NU has been a soft target for various students’ organization holding affiliation to the major political parties like Congress, BJP and NCP. Almost all the major groups like ABVP, NSUI, NCP and BJYM among others attacked the NU premises at one time or the other, causing severe damage to its property. In one such attack by the BJYM members, there was an attempt to set NU’s building, a heritage structure, on fire, during the tenure of former VC SN Pathan. Though some arrests were made by the Sitabuldi cops immediately after the attacks, local MPs and MLA from respective parties bailed their activists out. According to NU officials, the private security guards roped in so far to guard the premises were easily overpowered by the alleged hoodlums of these political outfits. They took the advantage of inability of private guards. At times, the protesters also thrashed them after being resisted. “Now, all this would be a thing of past as an MSSC personnel have all the powers of a normal police officer. They could immediately lodge offences against culprits at the spot. If they’re are attacked by the protesters, offences could be lodged against them under IPC for attacking the police on duty and they could be arrested immediately,” registrar Puran Meshram told TOI, while revealing that the contract was signed for a year. Explaining the need to rope in MSSC, the VC stated that their aim was to curb illegal entry into its hostels, which was perennial problem they were facing over the years. “The MSSC personnel would personally verify credentials of each inmate before allowing them entry into the hostels. We’ve deployed them at all our hostels for better security. However, their charges are slightly at higher end than normal one, but it’s worth as their security is foolproof.” Speaking on charges, the registrar added that MSSC first conducted a survey of all our premises and accordingly would levy the charges. “They deploy entire team along with a supervisor and their charges varied accordingly. A decision in this regard was made by the Management Council,” he said. MSSC deploys team comprising experience personnel and new recruits. Many of them are retired cops while newly inducted are also sent to such places for gaining experience. “All of them are well trained to tackle all adverse situations,” Meshram said. MSSC is currently headed by DGP Sanjay Barve, who took over as vice chairman and managing director on March 14.