New Delhi: Hundreds of   lovers and lepidopterists set   in different parts of the national capital region on Sunday with a checklist and camera in their hands — all in a bid to record butterfly species for Delhi’s   ever ‘Big Butterfly Count’.

 Organised by the Conservation Education Centre (Delhi wing of Bombay Natural History Society), the census is part of the ‘butterfly’ month which kicked off on September 1 at Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary and aims to provide an accurate and updated list of butterfly species found across  , the results of which will be announced on September 23.
 
 Over 15 locations across NCR were covered on Sunday, including Yamuna Biodiversity Park, Aravalli Biodiversity Park and Okhla Bird Sanctuary, among others. Each team was allotted an expert team captain with a checklist provided to each participant where they could spot butterfly species and mark them so they could be tallied. Meanwhile, participants were also carrying cameras to photograph the species so they could be correctly identified and verified before they are added to the ‘sighted’ species list. 
 
 The   on Sunday began at 8am and carried on for roughly four hours, finishing at noon which experts feel is the ‘best’ window to record butterfly species. Among the rare sightings made include psyche (leptosia nina), red pierrot, Indian red flash and pale palm dart, among others.
 
 While the list is still being compiled, experts said a robust number has been recorded. Historical records stretching centuries show 99 species recorded in NCR. On Sunday, each team recorded an average of 30 species, with the highest tally being close to 50.
 
 “This gives us a baseline data for the whole region.Our endeavour has been to get ordinary citizens involved in citizen science. By learning basic identification skills and honing their power of observation, we could provide a huge helping hand to scientists,” said Sohail Madan, centre manager at CEC and captain of the team at Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary.
 
 Entomologist Mohammad Faisal, who led one of the teams at Yamuna Biodiversity Park, said close to 40 species were recorded there with white arab and chocolate pansy being the rare sightings. Around 38 species were recorded at the Kamla Nehru Ridge with the dark clouded yellow being the highlight, while Tilpath Valley and Tughlakabad Biodiversity Park saw 26 and 41 respectively. 
 
 Faiyaz Khudsar, scientist in-charge at the Yamuna Biodiversity Park, said, “Butterflies are indicators of healthy environment and ecosystems. This census will help in learning more about them.” 
 
