KOCHI: The absconding British national,  , had reportedly arranged travel documents from the   on January 3 to fly back to London on January 6, police said on Thursday. 

 "From the information received, the accused had left the state on December 28, a week before we registered the case. The man was in a foreign country -- Nepal -- managing to acquire documents, when we registered the case as per the direction of the high court to arrest the man. It will be tough to bring him back as the child is accompanied by his father in his homeland. However, the process of bringing him back has already begun and the same will happen as soon as possible," said Mattancherry assistant commissioner of police Vijayan S.
 
 The mother of the child, the complainant, maintained that she is planning to approach the London police and the Indian high commission in the British capital to bring them back. "I don't know where he will be as I'm unaware of him owning any house there. The child always wanted to fly, apart from that I don't know whether the high commissionerate asked anything to him," said Anna Mathews, the mother.
 
 Anna had made a Facebook post about the same earlier in the day on Thursday. "The   in Chennai confirmed my worst fears. James used fraudulent documents (an Indian police report saying that his and Sam's passports were stolen) and a letter purportedly signed by me to obtain emergency travel documents from Kathmandu to the UK. The original passports are at the Kerala high court," Anna posted.
 
 Earlier, the state police chief had expressed the same apprehension to TOI. His leaving the country is quite possible, but there are ways to bring him back, the DGP had said.
 
 According to a complaint filed by Anna, Pierce had absconded with their child though his passport is under judicial custody as part of the ongoing divorce proceedings. The high court which ordered the arrest of the absconding man, has asked the complainant to present her demands in an affidavit and submit in court on Friday.
 
