PUNE: Corporators from all political parties, except that of the BJP, on Thursday raised questions about the timing of the development plan’s (DP) approval while contending that it was done to get political mileage ahead of the civic polls.

 At a programme on Wednesday, chief minister   announced the approval of the DP for the old city areas. 
 
 A committee, appointed under Pune divisional commissioner  , had submitted a draft plan to the state government in September 2015. The committee was appointed after Pune Municipal Corporation’s general body failed to approve the plan within the stipulated time period.
 
 “While taking back the DP from PMC, the BJP-led state government had announced that it will come up with the final plan within 90 days. However, that never happened. Now the party has announced the approval of DP just before the implementation of the code of conduct with an aim to get some benefits out of it,”  , leader of the house in PMC, said.
 
 Arvind Shinde, leader of opposition in PMC, said, “The DP is not a one-party project. It is the outcome of the work done by all party leaders and the administration. Therefore, it should not have been declared at a political party programme,” he said.
 
 The BJP, however, refuted the allegations saying that their party leader did not declare the approval of the DP to get political benefits. “Previous governments delayed the DP for years. Technically, the government had around one year’s time for finalising the DP. However, the government wanted to be done with it quickly, so approved it now,” Ganesh Bidkar, leader of the BJP in PMC, said. 
 
 While speaking at the general body, the party leaders raised the question on many changes introduced in the DP and also demanded an inquiry into these. “The three-member committee was appointed by the state government, then why would it reject the suggestions and changes made by the panel. Was there any misconduct at the committee’s level in putting these reservations? Inquiry in this matter should be carried out,” the corporators said.
 
 Meanwhile,  , former deputy chief minister, said the DP may turn out to be a hollow promise by the state government. “Many promises made by the BJP during the last few months have not seen the light of the day. Even DP will not be anything different. Planning should have been done considering the next 50 years. All the necessary reservations, which will benefit city in the future, should have been kept. We will study the report before coming up with our party’s stand,” he said.
 
 Some changes
 
 Laxmi Road widening has been cancelled
 
 Width of proposed widening of roads in city areas has been reduced. Roads such as Kumthekar Road, Shivaji Road, Kelkar Road, Shastri Road and Bajirao Road will be affected due to the changes 
 
 Residential zones in areas like Pashan, Mundhwa, Hinge and Parvati have been deleted and new reservations for public amenities like gardens, fire brigade stations have been introduced
 
 
