CHENNAI: In a a bid to create a   before regularising them, the government has embarked on a massive exercise to identify such sites.The   has directed all urban and   to complete the exercise by May 27.

 This will not only help in identifying the number of unapproved plots, but also locate encroachments on poramboke land and water bodies. “It will come in handy to identify whether adequate land is available in the layout, which can be used for Open Space Reservation (OSR) and developing public facilities including roads,“ an official told TOI.
 
 As per the government rules, 55% of the total land proposed to be developed as housing layouts should be earmarked for OSR, roads and children's parks. However, promoters developing unapproved layout promoters had been flouting regulations by converting almost all the available land into housing plots.
 
 “If only one-third or twothirds of the land had been sold, there can be some intervention from the government for earmarking necessary space for public facilities. We want to have complete information on unauthorised layouts before regularising the plots,“ the official added.
 
 Authorities in the go vernment believe that there are almost 25,000 unapproved layouts across the state although a clear picture would emerge only after the compilation of data from the districts. The government had notified a regularisation scheme for unauthorised plots on May 4, in the wake of the Madras high court banning registration of such plots to protect farmlands.
 
 The survey has also brought to light the extent of unapproved plots in the suburbs of Chennai. Sources in the commissionerate of municipal administration said that they had found around 180 unapproved layouts com prising approximately 8,000 plots in Avadi municipality , nearly 2,500 plots in Guduvanchery town panchayat, more than 1,400 plots in Sriperumbudur town panchayat, about 1,100 housing plots in Kundrathur town panchayat and 600 in Ponneri to be unauthorised. The numbers are expected to rise when the survey ends this weekend.
 
 A town panchayat official said enumerating unapproved plots was tedious as several layouts were formed years ago. “In some cases, the layout plan was not available. We are issuing pamphlets urging people to provide details of their plots.“
 
