PUNE: A sessions court on Monday reserved its order on an   moved by   and three others who were booked by the Hinjewadi police on July 6 under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and other offences. 

 Vijay Makasare of Shrirampur in Ahmednagar district lodged the FIR alleging that Desai, her husband, Prashant, brother-in-law, Satish, and her organisation Bhumata Brigade’s executive president Kantilal Gaware attacked him with sticks and iron rods after intercepting his car near Balewadi sports complex on Katraj-Dehu road bypass around 11.30am on June 27.
 
 He also alleged that they snatched his gold chain and Rs 27,000 in cash while threatening and hurling casteist abuses at him. Makasare was an active volunteer of Bhumata Brigade during the much-publicised agitation for women’s right to enter the Shani Shingnapur temple.
 
 On her part, Desai has claimed that the complainant filed a false case against her and the three others after she took note of reports that Makasare was misusing her organisation’s name by claiming that he was the Ahmednagar unit president. Desai had released an advertisement disassociating Makasare from the Bhumata Brigade. She also claimed Makasare has a criminal history and hence she had denied his repeated pleas to appoint him as an office-bearer. 
 
 Lawyer Milind Pawar filed the   on behalf of Desai and the three others and arguments over the same were heard by additional sessions judge A K Patil. Additional public prosecutor Vilas Ghogare-Patil opposed the plea, arguing that an amendment to the   in 2016 restrains the court from granting any protection to an accused unless the complainant is given an opportunity to present his side in the case. 
 
 Pawar argued that the defence was not averse to the court directing a notice to the complainant and hearing him before taking a final decision on the plea, but the accused may be granted an ad interim anticipatory bail till such decision is made. “The court is expected to pass an order on Tuesday, which may be of either allowing our plea for an ad interim anticipatory bail or a notice to the complainant to present himself for final hearing of the matter,” Pawar told TOI. 
 
