RANCHI: All   of   (SSA) in the state will get a   of two days from the coming financial year. 

 Jharkhand   (JEPC) project director Mukesh Kumar said: “The executive committee headed by chief secretary Rajbala Verma has approved the provision for special leave. This apart, uniformity has been brought in the maternity leave to be given to women employees and all would-mothers will now be granted 180 days of maternity leave.”
 
 A lot of changes are expected to be brought under SSA this year as a budget proposal of Rs 2,800 crore has been sent by JEPC to central SSA committee. A team of JEPC is to reach the Centre on Sunday with the demands. 
 
 Kumar said, “This year, the budget proposal is around Rs 500 crore more than the previous year. Last year, a total budget of Rs 1,550 crore was approved by the Centre. Let us see how much we are able to impress the Centre this year and how much budget is approved.”
 
 The proposal sent to the Centre includes increasing of the honorarium of 70,000 para teachers of the state by 15%. There is also a proposal of providing Rs 1,000 travel allowance to block resource persons and Rs 600 for cluster resource persons every month. 
 
 This apart, a proposal to open two special schools for rescued trafficking victims has been sent to SSA. “One school is to open in Ranchi and another in Dumka. At present, we enrol the rescued girls to  , but if we have a special school for rescued girls we will be able to pay more attention to them and provide better counselling,” Kumar said. 
 
 Upgradr of four dozen primary school to upper primary school has also been proposed along with a demand of special funds for maintenance and repair of the 261 model schools running in the state. “We have also asked for an exclusive fund for computer education in 4,000 government schools,” Kumar said.
 
 The funds for computer education is usually distributed equally among all states, but as Jharkhand is behind many states in terms of infrastructural facilities, a special fund is being demanded for the state. 
 
