MAPUSA/MARGAO: The first day of scrutiny saw one nomination being rejected and several objections being raised to the files of a few other candidates.
 
  The nomination of Shiv Sena candidate from Tivim, Sangam Bhosle, was rejected as he submitted his affidavit late. This development implies that the MGP-GSM-SS alliance won’t contest the Tivim seat.
  
  Objections were raised to the nominations of chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar (Mandrem), and BJP MLAs Michael Lobo (Calangute) and Ganesh Gaonkar (Sanvordem) for holding offices of profit. Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Sanvordem candidate   was also in the red for submitting an incomplete Form B.
  
  The returning officers (RO) rejected the objections after hearing both sides. Gaunker’s case, however, has been adjourned to Friday after the AAP candidate sought time to file his reply.
  
  In the Mandrem constituency, an objection to Parsekar’s nomination was raised by the MGP candidate Shridhar, Mandrekar, on the grounds that the chief minister is chairman of the sewerage infrastructure development corporation.
  
  A request to disqualify Lobo’s nomination on the grounds that he is chairman of the North Goa Planning and Development Authority (NGPDA) was made by Congress Calangute nominee,  . In his complaint, Sequeira further stated that as NGPDA chairman, Lobo could potentially influence voters by regularizing illegal constructions.
  
  Speaking to reporters outside the Calangute RO’s office, Lobo said he tendered his resignation as NGPDA chairman on January 13, copies of which were sent to the chief secretary and chief town planner.
  
  
  In Sanvordem, AAP raised objections to the nomination of Gaonkar on grounds of him being chairman of the Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) and the Goa State Scheduled Tribes Finance and Development Corporation Ltd. After Gaonkar produced a letter dated January 14 seeking relinquishment of his office, Sanvordem RO Agnelo Fernandes, rejected the objections raised.
  
  The Sanvordem BJP MLA, in turn, filed an objection to AAP candidate Gaunker’s nomination on grounds of his nomination form being incomplete. The ‘name’ column in Gaunker’s form has been left blank.
  
  “Ganesh Gaonkar has raised objections to the blank name column in Form B submitted by AAP’s Gaunker. The blank column means he has not been nominated by the party,” a source said.
  
