KOLKATA: The proposed shooting strike that was called on July 25 has been called off by the Eastern India Motion Pictures Association (EIMPA). The strike was called to protest the ban on Eskay Movies by Federation of Cine Technicians and Workers of Eastern India (FCTWEI). 

 “As a mark of respect to the gesture made by our minister Arup Biswas to defuse the current crisis, we held an emergency meeting of executive council on Saturday to call off the strike,” said Krishna Daga, the chairman of EIMPA’s producers’ section. The meeting was also attended by EIMPA president Shrikant Mohta, vice president Piya Sengupta and deputy chairman Nitesh Sharma, among others.
 
 The sudden decision to call off the strike has thrown off various kinds of reactions. Soon after the announcement,   of Eskay Movies tweeted expressing his surprise. “I am also not in favour of any strike stalling work. But I am surprised that the EIMPA president stalled the protest by calling an emergency meeting on Saturday without consulting the producers from EIMPA's producers’ section. I will now wait for our honourable minister to give me justice,” Dhanuka said.
 
 But some of the members of the industry, who were at the forefront at the press conference that was called to announce the strike, either preferred reticence or openly said they were ‘happy’ with the move. When TOI got in touch with Rhitobrata Bhattacharya, who is a member of Joint Conciliation Committee (JCC), on this issue, he said, “I was busy with shooting all day. I have just seen the press release and wouldn’t want to comment on this issue.”
 
 Shyamal Dutta, a member of JCC who was very vocal at the press conference about the high-handedness of FCTWEI, was happy with the decision. “We have full faith in the minister. When he has agreed to intervene, we need to have trust in him. We want a good working environment and all the producers agree that the crisis can only be resolved through dialogue and not a strike.”
 
 Producer Rana Sarkar, who was never in favour of the strike, is happy that it has been called off. “Every crisis is always resolved through discussions. I hope, in future we can start a dialogue on other issues plaguing the industry. Apart from the FCTWEI issue, the industry also has problems regarding piracy, protection of single screen theatres and CUBE/UFO projection system. I sincerely request the EIMPA president to take positive and proactive steps in these matters as well,” Sarkar said.
 
