HYDERABAD: A   who was abducted for  , Congo has been released.   was abducted in broad daylight by armed men at the golf course in Kinshasa on June 20. It took the Kinshasa police 19 days to get the man freed.

 The incident shocked the prosperous  . Sources said it was not the first time that the 35-year-old Ritesh was abducted. Within a few days of his release in June, he had been abducted for the second time, sources said. He has now been freed.
 
 According to a businessman who lived in Congo for several years and now lives in Hyderabad, the Indian community in Congo does not feel safe even after Hemnani has been freed. “The Indian community has become a soft target to extract money from. Unless something concrete is done at the government level, such things may continue. Indians need security there,” he said. As many as 5,000 Indians live in Congo, most of who are into business.
 
 Kinshasa police spokesman Col Pierre-Rombaut Mwanamputu said on Saturday that three men who were involved in the abduction of Hemnani had been arrested. The abductors were from Namibia, Mozambigue, Cameroon and Congo.
 
 The abductors had demanded a ransom of USD two million. While the police did not say if this ransom amount was paid, sources said the release could not have been secured without meeting the demands of the abductors. The hunt is on to arrest one of the four gang members. A close family member of Hemnani had got in touch with TOI from Spain saying efforts were being made to secure his release.
 
 As a follow up to the abduction of Hemnani, on June 21, Indian ambassador S K Ashok Warrier took up the matter with the deputy prime minister of Congo. After the meeting he had announced that the minister had assured that every possible efforts would be made to trace out Hemnani.
 
 In an advisory to all Indians in Congo on June 22, the embassy said: "The fact that this incident happened in broad daylight at an important location in the city is not only rare but understandably a little disturbing. While all efforts are being made to trace him, all Indian nationals are advised to maintain calm and keep a low profile and avoid getting into any arguments with anyone. Keep yourself aware of your surroundings and updated of all local happenings and also do not believe in rumours."
 
 "The kidnapped Indian is safe as of now. He is still in the custody of the kidnappers. Every effort is on to get him released without harm," the Indian embassy in Kinshasa, the capital of Congo, had told TOI when contacted after the abduction took place.
 
 The Indian Embassy in Congo subsequently chose not to reply to queries about the safety of Hemnani. Though it informed the Indian community on its twitter handle about the abduction of Hemnani in an advisory, it did not make any announcement on its handle again about his release.
 
