KOLKATA: A   opening routes at the Mount Everest found the   near South Col on Tuesday. Nath was part of a climbing team which lost three members while trying to make it to the summit last year. Meanwhile, the Sherpas, who have spotted two more bodies on Thursday lying near Balcony, feel one of them could be another member of the group -Gautam Ghosh.

 According to Sherpas and mountaineers, two groups were opening routes this season when they spotted a body near South Col. Dressed in orange and yellow suit, the body was lying on a piece of yellow tent cloth. "We were at Camp II when the news reached us. Sherpas from agencies IMG and Russell saw the body first. Later, other Sherpas ferrying the load saw the body of Nath lying there too. I got to know about that from  , who was part of the group," said Umesh Jirpe, a   trying to make it to the summit this year.
 
 Nath, the 58-year-old mountaineer who tried to scale Mt Everest with one hand (the other was amputated), was part of the group that had left Camp IV on May 19 last year. None of the group members that included Nath and Ghosh could be traced after that. A few days after that, Sherpas -part of the search-and-rescue team -managed to locate Nath's body at an altitude of 8,000m. But the body could not be brought down last year as the weat her turned inclement and it was kept wrapped in tent cloth. "We have seen the photograph of the body the Sherpas spotted and it seems to be Nath's. But we are yet to hear anything from Nath's family ," said Debdas Nandy, advisor (mountaineering), youth services and sports, Bengal.
 
 Nandy was part of the team which was overseeing the search-and-rescue operation at Mt Everest after the mountaineering group went missing last year."We are waiting for any news about Ghosh. After we get to hear anything specific about him, the state government might send a team," said Nandy .
 
 Meanwhile, Sherpas of a North America-based mountain guide agency spotted two bodies near Balcony on Thursday morning. While they did not take any photograph, Sherpas feel one of them could be Ghosh. "From the description, it seems one of them is Ghosh. But that can be ascertained only by the search team," Jirpe said. Family members of Ghosh have reached Kathmandu to retrieve his body ."We have also heard about a body being spotted near Balcony . We are trying to get in touch with the Sherpas to get further details," said Ghosh's brother Debasish.
 
