After a gap of seven years, Chennai-based   group,  , is staging the popular romantic play, 
  in the city, which is based on two short stories by acclaimed   writer, late  . The play, which was first staged by the group back in 2005, is a humourous love story based on stories that were written in the 40s, but hold good to this day.
Speaking about the play, director   says, “
 is a seamless blend of two of Basheer’s stories — one about the romance between a cardsharper’s daughter and a pickpocket, and the other about a Hindu man falling in love with his Christian landlord’s daughter. Both the tales play themselves out with unexpected twists and turns. The stories might have been written over half a century ago, but they are still relevant and enjoyable even today — something that is evident from the fact that audiences have been responding positively to the play.”
 The play has its own share of stars in the cast, with actors such as   and  , who started off their careers with the theatre company and found their footing in movies. “Some of our older actors, who moved on to movies, have come back to where it all began for them — that’s a good feeling. Also, except for one member of the cast, the rest of the actors have been with us since we last performed this play in Bengaluru. So, there is a lot of nostalgia and feel-good factor associated with the enactment of this play. But a play cannot be enacted for nostalgia’s sake alone, unless it’s enjoyable for both the audience as well as the actors. Since this ageless play manages to do just that, everything fell in place for us to revive it,” says Rajiv.
 Today is the last day of the performance by the group.
 
  
 
 
 
 Acting in theatre and movies can never be compared because the nature of work, preparation and involvement are vastly different from each other. What an actor brings to the table is different for both media, each valuable and memorable in its own way. I love the fact that theatre needs an open mind for performance, and I thoroughly enjoy that.
 — Aparna Gopinath, who has acted in Malayalam films such as 
 and 
 
 
 
