MUMBAI: The 127-year-old   on   has sparked a row by gradually expelling members who raised uncomfortable questions about alleged irregularities in the club’s management.
 
  Veteran pitch curator Nadeem Memon is the latest target of what some sacked members called a purge. The gymkhana sent him a termination notice on July 13 when he was in Britain. The reason he was given: a member had objected to his behaviour.
  
  Memon said the complaint was baseless and it had been “planted” so the management could avoid scrutiny over its controversial decisions such as not holding an election for the president’s post for 17 years.
  
  Two other former members, businessman Mehboob Khan and education consultant Mehboob Patel, also claimed they were earlier removed on frivolous and false charges after they made remonstrations about the misuse of the cricket ground for hosting weddings, and unauthorised constructions.
  
  “There has been a trend of expelling members who raise serious issues,” said Memon, who is considering a defamation suit against the gymkhana.
  
  Memon is a former curator of   and Ahmedabad’s  . He is the maidan secretary of the  .
  
  Islam Gymkhana, which was founded in 1890, is steeped in history and it was one of the first facilities in the city that encouraged a sporting culture. IAS and IPS officers are among its members.
  
  “I have been a member of Islam Gymkhana for 26 years. Until now, I was part of the managing committee,” he said. “Several important issues were never discussed in the AGM; there is no transparency in the system.”
  
  The gymkhana’s officials apparently gave him no indication that there had been an issue with his conduct. “I attended the committee’s meeting on June 20 and there was no discussion on my suspension. If my behaviour had been bad, why didn’t they bring up the issue? Memon said.
  
  “After I left for the UK with my family, I received the membership termination letter. No show-cause notice was issued. How can they suspend me like this in three days? They just do not want people who question the irregularities going on there.”
  
  Memon alleged the gymkhana’s long-serving president, Zaqaullah Siddiqui, had prodded a member to complain against him after he expressed concerns about Siddiqui’s tenure. “How can a president continue for 17 years without conducting an election?” he said.
  
  Mehboob Khan was removed as a member in 2012 and he has been fighting a court case against the gymkhana since then. “I was told my membership had been cancelled because I had not submitted a copy of my PAN card. They suddenly realised this after 11 years,” he said.
  
  The real reason, Khan believes, was his objections to the alleged misuse of the cricket ground. “A space meant for sports rented out for weddings and other functions. In the past 20 years, no major tournament or important match has been played on the ground,” he claimed. “The gymkhana, which provides caterers and decorators, earns at least Rs 30 lakh per wedding. There is no mention of this money in the balance sheet.”
  
  Mehboob Patel’s membership has been under suspension for the past four years. He was originally suspended for only a month following a complaint of sexual harassment, which apparently lacked merit.
  
  “The female members who the club said had complained against me had never heard of me. They told the police they were not even aware that a complaint had been filed,” Patel claimed. “The gymkhana’s management suspended me because it doesn’t want me to expose irregularities. There are more members who were fixed in false complaints.”
  
  The education consultant alleged a gym was illegally constructed and unauthorised alterations were made at the club. He didn’t specify when.
  
  The gymkhana’s president, Siddiqui, defended its decisions. “All the actions were taken according to the purview of law and everyone was informed about it in advance,” he said. He refused to comment on the cases of Khan and Patel, saying they were sub judice.
  
  On the claims of irregularities and his term, he said: “People with vested interests are making false and baseless claims. The gymkhana is doing well under my leadership and has developed a lot in these 17 years.”
  
