Nearly four years after Rakesh Jhunjunwala bought six flats in   for Rs 176 crore, he purchased the remaining six houses in January for Rs 195 crore.

 Billionaire investor   has bought a 12-flat, seafacing building -- Ridgeway Apartments at   -- with the latest purchase of six flats admeasuring 17,000-odd sq ft, from HSBC Bank for Rs 195 crore. Jhunjhunwala had bought the first lot of six apartments from Standard Chartered Bank in 2013 for Rs 176 crore.
 
 Now that he owns the entire building, on BG Kher Marg, commonly known as Ridge Road, the man known to have a Midas touch is all set to bring down the building and construct a bungalow on the plot.
 
 According to the documents available with Mumbai Mirror, Jhunjhunwala’s wife Rekha signed an agreement with HSBC Agency (India) Pvt Ltd on January 17, 2017 to acquire six remaining flats in Ridgeway. Within days of acquiring remaining 50% stake in the building, the Jhunjhunwalas started work on redeveloping the plot spread over 2,734 sq mt. Documents indicate that the family began work on appointing experts and architect to redevelop the plot a week after the last six flats were acquired in January.
 
 Architect Ameet Pawar submitted a formal application to the   regarding the building earlier this month. The Jhunjhunwalas, whose net worth is around Rs 10,000 crore, want to demolish the old structure, which housed senior executives of Standard Chartered and HSBC banks. The investor wants to build a bungalow on the plot, according to the papers submitted to BMC.
 
 When Mumbai Mirror contacted Jhunjhunwala, he said, “I am yet to decide what I want to do with the property. I have no comments to offer on that front.”
 
 However, documents in possession of Mumbai Mirror indicate that the Jhunjhunwalas want to construct a building which will be 47.4 mt in height and spread over 4,173 sq mt. The proposal submitted to BMC is under consideration. The application said the new building would a single tenement, indicating that it will be for personal use and not for commercial purposes.
 
 Once the project is complete, Jhunjhunwala, 56, will join the league of industrialists such as  , Kumar Mangalam Birla, and Sajjan Jindal among others, who own palatial bungalows in south Mumbai.
 
