BHATINDA: They belong to same village in   in   but are contesting against each other from Bhucho (reserve) assembly constituency in Bathinda. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA   and Congress nominee Pritam Singh, both belong to Kotbhai and use the village name as a suffix to their names.

 What’s more, the duo had even contested the 2012 assembly elections from on the same side as SAD candidates. While Pritam was SAD candidate from Bhucho, he got Congress ticket for the same seat this time, Hapreet had contested from Malout.
 
 Harpreet had won from Malout, defeating Nathu Ram of the Congress. Pritam had lost to his opponent Ajaib Singh Bhatti of the Congress by mere 1,288 votes in Bhucho.
 
 Even in the 2007 elections, Harpreet had won Malout assembly constituency as the SAD candidate. He is hoping that this winning streak will continue and he will emerge as the winner from here for the third time. His wife Abneet Kaur was elected as the chairperson of Muktsar zila parishad in August 2013.
 
 Harpreet (39) has done his BTech in civil engineering from Punjab Engineering College University of Technology, Chandigarh. He had plunged into politics after the sudden demise of his father Sujan Singh during the electioneering in 2002.
 
 “My father then was contesting election from Malout as an Akali nominee. After his death, the election was deferred by a couple of months. My mother  , then a member of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), had contested the byelection and had lost. I contested in 2007 and 2012 winning on both occasions,” said Harpreet.
 
 Pritam (48), a matriculate, had first contested the election from Bhucho in 2012 and lost. His brother   is the sarpanch of Kotbhai and mother is a member of Muktsar zila parishad. Pritam had joined the Congress couple of years ago.
 
 “People in Bhucho will elect one out of two Kotbhai residents. They have high hopes from the Congress after seeing the 10 years’ rule of SAD. I am getting immense support from the people,” said Pritam.
 
