AHMEDABAD: The survivor of the alleged Naliya gang rape case on Monday moved Gujarat high court urging it to constitute another special investigation team (SIT) to be headed by a female police officer for impartial probe or to transfer investigation to CID (crime) under the supervision of a female cop.

 The 20-year-old rape survivor has alleged collusion between Kutch police and the accused persons and claimed that there was a systematic effort on part of cops to delay the probe. The police officials also continued to leak the information of her complaint to the accused persons and others so that they get time to destroy her case she has alleged. There has been no test identification parade conducted till date.
 
 The petitioner complained that there was no presence of a woman police constable at the Naliya police station when her statements were recorded. She was asked indecent questions and efforts were made to demoralize her. Her husband was compelled to speak before the media by police.
 
 Besides transfer of probe, the petitioner has requested for direction for probe against three persons – Payal,   and one woman she identifies as Bhabhi from Bhuj – who, according to her, run the sex racket involving 30-35 other victims from poor families. 
 
 She has sought transfer of probe on the ground that Kutch police and its SIT have not only tried to dissuade her from lodging the complaint, but they tried to save the skin of their political bosses.   has sought reply from the government in this regard by March 31.
 
 She has also sought departmental inquiry against   and local crime branch PI, JM Aal, for delaying registration of her FIR for 13 days as well as for the lukewarm response and efforts to shield the culprits. She has also urged the HC to seek the Action Taken Report on the investigation.
 
 The petitioner has also sought registration of FIR against Kutch district’s BJP president   for disclosing her identity in public during a press conference. During the hearing, the state government ensured the court that the complaint would soon be registered in this regard.
 
