KOLKATA:   just got more user-friendly for  .   and spell correction, two features that were available on the search engine while making queries in English, can now be availed in Bengali as well.

 “Starting Wednesday, when you search for cricket legend Sourav Ganguly in Bengali,   Search will show you things, not strings, and you’ll instantly get information that’s relevant to your query such as his date of birth, his statistics as a cricketer, or links to his profile on social media in Bengali,” a Google spokesperson said.
 
 The knowledge graph is a panel containing vital information on a query about landmarks, celebrities, cities, sports teams, buildings, geographical features, movies, celestial objects, works of art and much more. The feature allows users to get straight to the answer and not several of webpages to scroll through. 
 
 Google Knowledge Graph is currently available in 41 languages (including two Indian languages — Hindi and Bengali — apart from English and foreign languages like Spanish, French, German, Portuguese, Japanese, Russian, and Italian), maps out how more than 1 billion things in the real world are connected and displays over 70 billion facts about them. It is tuned based on what people search for, and what Google finds out on the web, improving results over time. 
 
 Google also introduced spell correction for Bengali queries in Google Search on Wednesday, making allowances for misspelling while making a search. 
 
 “Search is a lot about discovery — learning something new about the world, having fun, and getting inspired. But it’s all too easy for users to misspell something they were searching for, especially when in a rush or on the go. To help users get answers even when they misspell a word, Google Search will now support spell correction for Bengali queries, suggesting similar queries whenever a typo makes its way into users’ search query,” the spokesperson added.
 
 The twin features will make it easier for the over-200-million Bengali speakers to search for things. Bengali is the seventh most-spoken native language in the world. Apart from Bengal, Tripura, Assam’s Barak Valley and Andaman and Nicobar Islands, it is the national language of Bangladesh and official language of Sierra Leone.
 
 
