BENGALURU: With the Supreme Court upholding the conviction of  , AIADMK general secretary and long-time aide former Tamil Nadu chief minister  , and two others in the disproportionate assets case, all eyes are on special judge for CBI cases Ashwathnarayana, who holds concurrent charge of the special court that heard the DA case.

 The Supreme Court ordered the three accused to surrender before the trial court immediately. Sasikala,   and   are expected to surrender any time before the special judge.
 
 The special court had not been informed of the Supreme Court verdict till Tuesday evening, official sources said.
 
 In its order, the Supreme Court said, “Respondents A2 to A4 [Sasikala, Sudhakaran and Ilavarasi], in view of this determination and restoration of their conviction and sentence, would surrender before the trial court forthwith. The trial court is hereby also ordered to take immediate steps to ensure that the respondents A2 to A4 serve out the remainder of sentence awarded to them and take further steps in compliance of this judgment, in accordance with the law.“ Though the authorities would not elaborate on the course of action to be taken if Sasikala and the other two accused did not turn up to surrender on their own, legal experts ruled out their immediate arrest.
 
 They said the Karnataka high court registry, on its part, would set the ball rolling once it receives a copy of the operative part of the 547page judgment from the registry of the apex court.
 
 If Sasikala and the others don't turn up on Wednesday, the special judge, after receiving the Supreme Court order copy from the high court registry, can issue arrest warrants against them, the experts said.
 
 If the warrants are issued, the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption, the prosecuting agency in the disproportionate assets case, will be empowered to execute them by arresting the three accused and handing them over to the Karnataka police, legal experts said.
 
 When the trial court convicted and sentenced J Jayalalithaa, Sasikala and two others in the case on September 27, 2014, all four were present in the court set up in the   at Parappana Agrahara in Bengaluru. They were immediately taken into custody and sent to jail. They spent 21 days in prison before getting bail.
 
