It was a mere mud fort at the time of its inception. But over time, the humble structure secured a place in history - with its soaring buttresses and latticed balconies offering a haunting view of the past. The richly ornamented 18th century Qila Mubarak, a fine example of Sikh palace architecture, is located in the heart of the walled city of Patiala. In 2004, the World Monuments Fund listed it among the world’s 100 most endangered monuments. 

 Restoration of the 300-year-old building would cost a whopping Rs 300 crore. But for now, the Union government has allocated a sum of Rs 38 crore, which is being used to restore antique artwork on the outer walls, main gate,  , (royal guest house),   (from where Capt Amarinder Singh’s ancestors ruled the Patiala state),  , (residence of the royals),  . 
 
 Restoration is being undertaken under the supervision of Indian National Trust for Arts and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), department of tourism and cultural affairs, Punjab, with financial assistance received as special grant from the 30th Finance Commission and funds coming in from the Asian Development Bank. 
 
 
 
 Director, tourism and cultural affairs, Punjab, Dr Navjotpal Singh Randhawa said conservation experts with masters and PhDs in the field had been roped in to execute sensitive restoration work according to the original architecture of the 18th century. He said those working on restoration of the qila have rich experience in the field of conservation and all precautions were being taken to ensure that the unique character of the building was not altered. Amish Tambi, one of the three contractors working at the site said they have almost completed work on the main gate and Darbar Hall and the remaining is likely to be completed soon. Visitors are not allowed to enter the fort as of now but they can walk amid the hugely impressive inner and outer walls dotted by crumbling brickwork. 
  
  
 
 
 The 1859 Durbar Hall now houses a museum which has a magnificent collection of weaponry, royal portraits, rich chandeliers and other treasures rescued from the decaying palaces of the Patiala royals. The treasures kept inside the qila include rare cannons, swords, shields and maces, along with daggers of Guru Gobind Singh and a sword of Nadir Shah. It also has an all silver horse-cart, blackened by silver oxide now. The collection of artistic mirrors and paintings of Sikh rulers are aesthetic marvels. Art work on the interior walls of the chambers has been done with coloured glass. 
 
 
 
 The entrance is through an imposing gate. The architecture is a synthesis of late Mughal and Rajasthani styles. The complex has 10 courtyards along the north-south axis and each courtyard is unique in size and character. Some are broad, others very small and still others mere slits in the fabric of the building. Although the Androon is a single interconnected building, it is spoken of as a series of palaces. Each set of rooms makes a cluster around a courtyard, and each carries a name: Sheesh Mahal, Toshkhana, Jalau Khana, Chand Mahal, Rang Mahal, Treasury and Prison. Ten of the rooms are painted with frescoes, or decorated intricately with mirror and gilt. In a tiny part of the complex is a little British construction with gothic arches, fire places made of marble and built-in toilets on the Mughal Rajasthani roof. Even today, Burj Baba Ala Singh has a fire smoldering ever since Baba Ala Singh brought a flame from Jwalaji. 
 
 
 
 Rang Mahal and Sheesh Mahal contain a large number of frescoes, most of which were made under Maharaja Narender Singh. Within the Qila Mubarak are 16 painted and mirror-work chambers. For instance, the Darbar room is illustrated with Vishnu avatars and stories of courage or generosity, the ladies' chamber has illustrations from famous romantic epics and two other chambers have illustrations on the qualities of a good or bad king. The frescoes, among the finest painted in India in the second half of the 19th century, are the work of artists from Rajasthani, Pahari and Avadhi traditions. 
  
  
 
 
 Darbar Hall or Diwan Khana was used for large audiences and important public occasions. It has now been converted into a museum displaying dazzling chandeliers and armour, including the sword and dagger of Guru Gobind Singh and Nadir Shah's sword. The hall was built on a high plinth over a network of tunnels which were service conduits. The facade gives the e impression of a double-storey building, with 'upper storey' windows and a balcony at the first floor level, but the delicately worked woodand-glass doors open into a huge 15m-high chamber. At the far end is a raised platform, where the Maharaja sat. The wooden frame work of the ceiling holds decorated plaster-of paris tiles painted in Arabic style. The ceiling, with its fabled collection of chandeliers, is resplendent. 
 
 
 
  
 Both were much later constructions. The Jalau Khana is a small, two-storey building with a central hall built in the late colonial style, with regalia displayed. The Sard Khana provided an escape from the summer heat. A deep well inside acted as a wind tunnel, bringing cool air into the ground-floor rooms and basement. Outside, there is a formal garden with waterways and fountains. 
 
 
 
 This was another small, twostorey building with a central courtyard and a well. It is adjacent to the Ran-Vaas, and a passage linked it to Qila Androon. Local lore has it that this kitchen could serve nearly 35,000 people.
 
