Noida: The three development authorities of Gautam Budh Nagar—Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna expressway—have made it mandatory for all its departments to procure goods and services through the Union government’s Amazon-like initiative, Government e-Marketplace (GeM).

 The initiative has been implemented for the first time in Uttar Pradesh in the three authorities to usher in transparency besides enhancing efficiency and speed in public procurement, said Deepak Agarwal, CEO, Noida & Greater Noida. The training for the first 200 personnel from the two authorities took place on Friday.
 
 According to officials, the purchases will start once the three authorities register themselves with the website www.gem.gov.in. “Nearly 100 government agencies are already using the facility launched by the Union government in August last year,” Agarwal told TOI. “This is a one-stop portal to facilitate online procurement of common use goods and services required by government offices,” he explained.
 
 Currently, over 9,000 products from 250 categories including computers, stationery and several services are registered by different vendors on the portal. “We will be able to purchase goods like air conditioners and heating equipment, writing instruments, water, projectors, desk and computer supplies and services like security, human resources, house-keeping, among others without the hassle of initiating tenders for everything,” he said. “The most important aspect of this online shopping portal would be rooting out corruption from government offices. We spend nearly Rs 50 crore in purchases for Noida and Greater Noida every year,” he said. “It will also be a relief for sellers, who are subjected to an endless wait while dealing with government processes,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, Agarwal has also revised the public meeting time in  . “People can meet officials from 9.30 am to 1.30 pm daily. Earlier, officials were available only between 10 am and 12 pm,” he told TOI. “This has been done to redress people’s issues at the earliest,” he said.
 
