MUMBAI: For the first time after the recent civic elections that the saffron allies fought separately, the BJP on Wednesday teamed up with the opposition to reject a Shiv Sena-backed proposal to buy wooden furniture worth Rs 2.28 crore for the city's municipal schools.

 At the standing committee meeting held on Wednesday afternoon, the civic administration tabled a proposal for purchase of 2,438 chairs and 1,116 tables, all made of teakwood, for teachers in the 1,000-plus civic schools in Mumbai. Taking stern objection to the proposal Manoj Kotak, BJP party leader in the BMC, said that on the one hand, we were teaching students not to cut trees, and on the other, trees would need to be chopped for the furniture.Kotak added that instead, furniture made of stainless steel or aluminum could be pur chased. Supporting Kotak,   leader in the BMC Rais Shaikh said civic schools need long-lasting furniture and wondered if the wooden furniture would last long.
 
  party leader in the   meanwhile said civic schools were in a poor condition, and termites could get into wooden furniture and destroy it. “Instead, we should buy ecofriendly furniture which will last long. The use of wooden furniture has to be stopped in schools,“ he said.
 
 The Sena, however, was in favour of the proposal and said it should be passed. Sena member Mangesh   said the academic year was to begin in June 2017, and rejecting the proposal would only delay the process of acqui ring the furniture which was required in schools. “We are sitting on wooden chairs ourselves in our meeting. The proposal could be passed, and the administration should be asked to take notice of objections raised by committee members in the future,“ Satamkar said.
 
 But the BJP was not ready to budge. Its Colaba corporator Makrand Narwekar insisted the proposal should be rejected as most of the members on the panel felt so. “We all feel there is no use for wooden furniture, and instead plastic or steel chairs and tables must be purchased,“ he said.
 
 Additional municipal commissioner Pallavi Darade, who was at the meeting, said the purchase of wooden furniture was required to be made following demands from schools. “Besides, the furniture is for teachers and not students; for the students, ecofriendly furniture was purchased last year,“ said Darade.
 
 Voting was finally held on the proposal, with 16 BJP and other opposition members saying no and only six Sena members in favour of it.
 
