KOLKATA: The personal belongings used by Mahatma Gandhi when he stayed in Kolkata in August, 1947, haven’t been dusted since last October. The museum is not under   and a layer of dust covers the floor on which are kept his bed, glass, handheld lantern, three pairs of slippers and two charkas. The keys to the glass case that separates this enclosure from visitors to Beliaghata’s   are not accessible to the building’s caretaker. But this is not how the Purba Kolkata Gandhi Smarak Samitee would like the museum kept.

 On January 30, Gandhi’s death anniversary, Purba Kolkata Gandhi Smarak Samitee organized a homage here. Members of the organisation are miffed with the way images of Gandhi using the charkha in the Khadi and Village Commission’s calendar and diary have been replaced by that of Prime Minister  . Without taking the PM’s name, the organisation has issued a statement and displayed it on a banner at the gates of Gandhi Bhawan. “Only Gandhiji himself can be his comparison. No attempt to replace his image can change the way he is respected by the global community. Our members will soon meet the governor to protest the way Gandhiji’s image was replaced,” said Papri Sarkar, joint secretary of the committee.
 
 Though PWD has begun renovation of the building with a fresh coat of paint, the museum that houses rare photos of riot-hit Bengal and Gandhiji’s stay at this place, along with newspaper clippings still looks shabby. Torn photographs jostle for space with some electric goods and a model of a goat in a storeroom next to where Gandhiji lived. 
 
  Caretaker Dilip Dey and wife Rinku mop the floors regularly. “But we don’t have the keys to open the cases and hence, can’t clean inside,” Rinku said. The last time we cleaned the cases was before October 2.”
 
 Sarkar said, “Our organisation had a contract with PWD regarding the maintenance of this house. Once that is renewed, it will be easier for us to intervene and look into the upkeep of this building.”
 
 Local councillor Alokananda Das, who was present at Monday’s function, has made a request to the PWD so that someone is appointed to take care of the museum 24x7. “On Monday, we decided to write a letter to Unesco so they can declare this as a world heritage site,” she said. Another decision taken at the event was to ensure that the entire property comes under CCTV coverage. “This house has national treasures. It is important to keep all of them under surveillance. While PWD officials have partially renovated the place, the exterior needs to be renovated further,” said Das’s father, insisting that he would now focus on advertising this place to encourage school students to visit it.
 
 
