KOLKATA: With enhanced watch on the Bengal border, smugglers have found an alternative route through   and Mizoram to get   into Kolkata. Since January this year, Department of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) has seized around 80kg Myanmar-marked gold worth Rs 24 crore. The haul was close to the entire amount seized last year.

 On Friday, DRI seized 21.5kg gold from Siliguri, also being routed from Myanmar. The DRI team, acting on a tip-off that said a large consignment of gold had entered through the Myanmar-Mizoram border and was heading towards Kolkata, had intercepted the carriers at Siliguri. The team recovered 79 pieces of gold bars. With all of the bars having a purity of 24 carat, the total value of the recovered metal is pegged at Rs 6.57 crore.
 
 Earlier in January, the DRI officials seized 28kg gold from carriers who were putting up at a city hotel and Howrah Station. The accused had smuggled in gold through Manipur.
 
 The sudden spurt in   of gold has been prompted by its demand in the post-demonetisation phase, feel industry insiders. “While most of the gold brought via the Dubai route has 22 carat purity, the metal that is smuggled through the   is of 24 carat purity,” said a jeweller.
 
 A customs department official remarked   has replaced the traditional smuggling routes like Dubai, Bangkok and Bangladesh. Between April and October 2016, the customs department had seized 246kg gold coming in from the Myanmar route. While the smuggled metal is sent all across the country, a portion of it remains in the Kolkata market as well. “It seems members of an organized rackets are involved in smuggling the metal into India. All the carries have stopped at intermediate points like Guwahati and Siliguri before moving to Kolkata,” said the official.
 
 The number of arrested Myanmarese nationals has increased in past three months. “So far, 27 persons have been arrested in connection to the gold being smuggled in from Myanmar. Many of them are Myanmarese nationals,” the official added.
 
 
