Hosting the Director's special on
  this week,   was in a mood to talk cinema with people from his side of the business. With master filmmakers  ,   and   giving him company, Karan chatted about films, critics, Twitter reviews and reactions.
 
 Beginning the episode with what he calls himself famous for - frivolous talk, Karan calls Zoya a seductress of Koffee With Karan and someone who is wooed by many popular directors of Bollywood like Anurag Kashyap, Dibakar Banerjee and Imtiaz Ali. To this, Zoya tells Karan how she is waiting for him. When Karan replies that it might never happen, she talks about hope and wait. 
  
 Talking about box office success, all the three directors confess that figures matter. Also, Imtiaz elaborated how he appreciates the experimentation that is happening in commercial cinema now. Since Hindi films are all about song and dance, both Imtiaz and Zoya opened up about their love for shooting the musicals on set. 
  
 When the topic shifted to stars walking out of their films, Zoya revealed that initially she was cocky, and that is what helped her survive. Imtiaz told Karan how he, somehow, never faced the problem of casting people after Jab We Met. Kabir had an all together different struggle. He joked that it was difficult for him to get the producer on board and not the actor. He was a documentary film maker and that came as a barrier in getting his foothold in commercial cinema. 
 
  
  
 Quick to point out things, Karan also opened up about how actors never read narrations, and that his are over-the-top, theatrical ones, where he enacts the male lead as well as the female part. 
  
 The funniest bit of the show was when Karan confessed that he was obsessed about reading every review of his movie on Twitter. Asking the directors to share their thoughts on the same, Zoya said that these days the critique is pathetic and low ground. They are competing amongst themselves to be meaner and funnier. While Zoya talked about how one critic accused her of making films about rich people. And the same one, gave Karan 4 stars for his film. Kabir, however, came easy on it. He said he doesn't seek reviews but reads them if he comes across any. Imtiaz was all cool about it and revealed that he doesn't read anything. Karan also ridiculed the trend of live tweet reviews and Zoya called it piracy. 
  
 In the rapid fire round, from actors who came late on sets to the best actor/actress, the directors shared their favorites with Karan, without any hesitation. The hamper was won by Imtiaz Ali and Kabir Khan. But Zoya made up for the loss by winning the Koffee Quiz.
 
 
  
 
