GURUGRAM:   has decided to engage Trai’s Telecom Enforcement Resource and Monitoring (TERM) cell to check radiation levels of   in the city, after complaints against mobile towers with it shot up.

 The   will initially survey and inspect all 51 mobile tower sites in Huda sectors, mostly at community centres and water works such as overhead tanks and pumping stations, which were leased out by Huda. “The TERM cell will conduct a survey in the next two weeks and submit their report,” said estate officer-I Vivek Kalia, adding the cell will try to find out whether radiation level at these sites are in accordance with set guidelines.
 
 The department of telecommunication set up the TERM cell under   in 2013, to check technical issues related to radiation. The cell assesses, detects and checks all radiation-related technical details.
 
 Earlier in January, Sector 10A residents protested the installation of a mobile tower in their community centre, alleging it will have serious impact on their health. The community centre, where a multi-company mobile tower is being installed, is located closed to a school, a temple and public parks, and is surrounded by residential houses.
 
 “We opposed the installation of mobile towers in residential areas, and even submitted a memorandum to Huda, but no one paid any attention to it, and installation began,” said Sector 10A resident S R Yadav. He said by allowing mobile towers in residential areas, Huda is playing with the health of residents, and added that as per rule, these towers can’t be installed within 500m radius of schools, hospitals or public places. “In this case, a school, a temple and public parks are located next to the community centre. Large number of people, including children visit these places every day, and radiation will cause health problems,” said Yadav, adding that they had also filed a petition challenging the installation.
 
 Gurgaon has a total of 1,177 mobile towers, of which 917 are illegal. Only 102 of the 888 mobile towers in MCG areas have valid license, while 786 are illegal. Similarly, there are 289 mobile towers in Huda sectors, of which only 158 have valid license, while 131 are illegal.
 
 A company has to take permission from Huda and MCG before installing a mobile tower, and can’t locate it close to schools, colleges or hospitals. The radiation level should also be as per prescribed limit.
 
 
