NEW DELHI: For sanitation workers on the rolls of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation, last week’s Holi was as colourless as it was the previous two years. Savitri Devi (40), whose husband is one of the several workers who have reportedly not received their January and February salaries, says their children have now got used to the disappointment. 

 The situation is not much different for the staff of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, which together with EDMC, employs over 80,000 people as sanitation workers, teachers, gardeners and nursing and administration staff.
 
 Amid this struggle, it’s the political parties that sense an opportunity ahead of the upcoming  .  , which has held the reins of all the three municipal bodies in the city for the last two terms, has come under repeated attacks from AAP, Congress, Swaraj India and JD(U) over the issue.
 
 Some members of a teachers’ union in north Delhi TOI spoke to said they have decided to vote for the party that would provide them with a “convincing solution” to their problems. Which party that will be, they are not quite sure.
 
 In south Delhi’s Hastal village, AAP candidate Ashok Kumar claims he has come across many people who haven’t received their salaries on time. “Workers are living in the worst possible conditions. BJP did not bother about them. The party also didn’t try to improve the financial health of the corporations,” alleges Kumar. 
 
 Congress, on the other hand, has come up with a “road map” to make the corporations financially sustainable, with active involvement of former Union finance minister P Chidambaram. “It (financial distress of the corporations) is one of the biggest election issues this time. There is so much anger among workers against BJP and it is understandable when people haven’t received their salaries for months,” says Congress functionary Mukesh Goel.
 
 BJP, on its part, puts the blame entirely at AAP’s doorstep. “Delhi government has not released funds even after several protests by sanitation workers outside CM Arvind Kejriwal’s office,” says a BJP councillor. 
 
 The new entrants, Swaraj India and JD(U), have also raised the issue at their political meets.
 
 
