HYDERABAD: A day after   national president   criticised the   for not utilising central funds for various schemes, the   at him for what it called his "ignorance of the development that was taking place in the state". The sudden and unprecedented war of words between leaders of the two parties in the last few days clearly indicates that both would end up fighting each other in the 2019 elections in Telangana. 

  “The BJP will not even find candi dates to field in the 119 assembly constituencies and will not be able to retain the five seats it holds now in the 2019 elections,“ TRS MLC Bhanuprasad and Munugode MLA K Prabhakar Reddy said at a press conference.
 The two TRS leaders said that during his visit to Nalgonda on Monday , Amit Shah spat out what was fed to him by local BJP leaders K Laxman and G Kishan Reddy .
 
 “It is ridiculous for the BJP president to ask people if they have got water when the projects are still in progress. There is nothing wrong if he wants to strengthen his party , but indulging in false propaganda against chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao's government is unbecoming of him,“ they said.
 
 The villagers of Theretpalli in Nalgonda district, which Shah visited on Monday , were disappointed as he delivered nothing but unnecessary criticism of the government, the two leaders claimed. Although neither the chief mini ster nor any ministers responded directly to the BJP chief, sources said Bhanuprasad and Reddy , who addressed the media on Tuesday , have the blessings of top TRS leaders.
 
 During their address, the two TRS legislators wondered how Shah could criticise their government when it had been lauded by none other than Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Niti Aayog.
 
 “This shows the BJP's doublespeak. People have made it clear that they prefer the TRS and not the BJP in the state,“ they said, adding that this was demonstrated in the Medak and Warangal Lok Sabha by-elections where all the contestants lost their deposits to the winning TRS candidates.
 
 They further claimed that the BJP had won the UP elections by borrowing the farm loan waiver idea from the TRS. The two leaders said the TRS was implementing many programmes which were not even promised in their election manifesto. “The BJP promised to get back black money from abroad and deposit Rs 15 lakh into each person's account. Why has it not been done yet,“ they asked.
 
