Chess calls for making the right move at the right time. Goa’s leading player   seems to be doing just that.
 
  The 25-year-old has gone from strength to strength, winning the Asian Individual women’s chess championship in Uzbekistan in June last year and earning a berth in the World event in October, the venue of which has yet to be decided..
  
  The state’s first Women’s Grand Master, however, has had to do a balancing act with academics and her focus on the board of 64 squares.
  
  So, while she foxed opponents on the chequered board, she took timely breaks to finish her Bachelor of Arts degree three years ago. “It was tough to concentrate on studies. Luckily, I had great teachers at Mahila Nutan English High School & College as well as supportive friends,” she reveals.
  
  Besides studies, Bhakti had to cope with a prolonged wait for the WGM title she earned in 2011. It took Fide a year and a half to bestow the honour upon her.
  
  “For a WGM title, one needs three norms and an ELO rating of 2300. I had crossed 2339 and I had earned three norms — the first in the Czech Republic, the second in Hungary and the third at the Asian Juniors in Sri Lanka in 2011.
  
  “I was very quick to win three norms in a span of six months. It usually takes three to four years. They disputed my norm in Hungary and I had to go through a lengthy process after appealing to Fide,” she reflects.
  
  It was a triumph over disappointment made possible by dedication and patience that brought Bhakti good results during that trying period. A stellar performance by Bhakti, brand ambassador of Goa Carbon Limited, at the Asian Nations Cup in Abu Dhabi brought her the Goa Youth Icon honour given by the Election Commission.
  
  She dominated at Abu Dhabi, winning all four rounds in the Classical format and helping India win the bronze medal in the team and individual rapid event.
  
  Before the world meet Bhakti is gearing up for National Team Championship where she will represent Air India.
  
  “I will play tournaments in Sharjah and Dubai in March-April and will decide on my next course of action. I need funds for international tournaments and specialized training, part of which is being sanctioned by  , chairman,  , and I need some real encouragement from the Government,” reveals Bhakti.
  
  Grateful to “Shrinivas Sir” whose support has been vital, Bhakti has found inspiration from another source. An avid reader, she found motivation from a book entitled Mystical Power by Goan writer Sampada Kunkliekar.
  
  “The book changed my entire outlook and I would love to meet the author,” says Bhakti whose positivity is striking.
  
  Bhakti, though, forays into philosophy herself and draws a comparison between chess and life.
  
  “I learn from mistakes and defeats. Also, I know one has to make sacrifices for achievement. And you have to wait for the right time with patience and faith in yourself. One wrong move and you are destroyed,” she says with a smile.
