NOIDA: Two youths allegedly attempted to   a 25-year-old woman and her 30-year-old   at a New Year-eve party organised by the former’s sister in Sector 105 on Saturday. The two were later arrested on the woman’s complaint.

 The woman, a resident of Indirapuram, Ghaziabad, has alleged that the youths, known to her sister, were drunk and had spiked their drinks too.
 
 According to police, the woman was accompanied by her sister-in-law and the latter’s children at the party, where the youths were already present. The party was held at the residence of the woman’s sister.
 
 “Those attended the party consumed drinks after the children were put to sleep around midnight. The complainant has said that after consuming drinks, the youths, Arun and Shabir, started misbehaving with them,” said Amarnath Yadav, SHO, Sector 39 police station.
 
 “The women somehow opened the door and raised an alarm, following which neighbours gathered at the spot,” he said.
 
 According to police, after consuming drinks, the woman’s sister started puking and went to her room.
 
 The complainant has alleged that one of the youths locked the door of her sister’s room and then the two started misbehaving with her and her sister-in-law. During the incident, the woman allegedly caught hold of a wiper and hit one of the accused with it.
 
 As per the complaint, the woman tried to beat up one of the accused. As soon as the other saw his friend being beaten up, he ran to save him and it was then that the sister-in-law ran out of the house and raised an alarm.
 
 “The two youths allegedly slapped the woman and her head started bleeding as she hit a wall. However, neighbours arrived by then and called police,” Yadav said.
 
 The police reached the spot soon. They registered an FIR under Section 354 of IPC (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) on the basis of woman’s complaint.
 
 The youths are residents of Bisrakh and do odd jobs, police said. Both were arrested by from Sector 105 area later.
 
 
