TRICHY: The district administration plans to form a committee to monitor extraction of groundwater for commercial purposes, in an attempt to regulate exploitation of groundwater and streamline water distribution at this time of crisis. However, traders and commercial outlets, who largely depend on supply through trucks to meet their water needs have raised concerns over the move. 

 This move is in response to several complaints of ground   through bore wells leading to further depletion of the groundwater table. Cracking down on violators for illegal extraction of   and its sale for commercial purposes, the district administration sealed five bore wells near   in the city. These bore wells were sealed following complaints from residents of Kondayampettai regarding depletion of ground water due to exploitation by commercial units.
 
 There are a total of 10 such points in the city where water is extracted from 50 odd bore wells. More than 200 hotels, educational institutions, gated communities and milk companies depend on water from these 10 points for their excess water needs. Collector K S Palanisamy directed the officials to stop extraction of water from these 10 points since commercial units are extracting water without proper permission.
 
 Traders however said that they were relying on these bore wells for excess water needs since water supply from the corporation is not even adequate to meet drinking water needs. "We have been relying on this water source for years together. If supply is stopped now, all hotels, hospitals and other commercial establishments will have to shut down," said state treasurer of  , V E Govindarajalu. Following the representation from traders, the collector has allowed extraction of water from the other bore wells for the time being. A senior official from the district administration said that talks are on with PWD's ground water team. Soon, a committee would be formed to regulate extraction of water from these private bore wells. 
 
 A total 140 tanker trucks supply water from these bore wells to commercial establishment. While Rs 50-60 is charged by owners of land where the bore wells are dug, trucks charge anywhere between 600 and 2,000 per trip, depending on the distance, to supply 12,000 litres of water. With the city facing peak summer, the corporation has already rolled out plans to rejuvenate existing water bodies and explore additional water sources. The civic body has already spent 3 crore to improve water supply which has dropped in recent weeks. 
 
 Thirty-two spots have been identified in the city to dig bore wells. Twenty of these will be fixed with hand pumps while the rest would be fixed with motor pumps.
 
