PUNE: The city could get some respite from the scorching heat from Thursday and the   might plummet to 36°C by April 4 because of cloud formation.

 “The clear skies in the city and nearby areas are pushing up the temperature at present. Cloudy conditions are likely to prevail in next couple of days. It will have an impact on the heat and the maximum temperature will go down,” a Met official told TOI, adding that the maximum temperature would drop from Thursday by at least a degree.
 
 There was not much change in the city’s temperature on Wednesday, though. The maximum temperature was 40.1°C (3.8 degrees above normal), the same as Tuesday’s. The minimum was 22.5°C — five degrees above normal.
 
 Not just Pune, the entire state continued to reel from intense hot weather condition on Wednesday. As per the weather report, nearly 11 cities from Vidharbha, Marathwada and western Maharashtra regions recorded temperatures above 40°C.
 
 “Hot conditions, including the heatwaves, are likely to continue till Saturday (April 1), after which temperatures may drop by a degree or two,” said M Mohapatra, DGM of IMD’s National Weather Forecasting Centre.
 
 Heatwave warnings have been issued for Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Maharashtra, south Uttar Pradesh, south Haryana, Chandigarh and interior Odisha.
 
 Mohapatra said wind flow patterns, clear skies and a low-pressure pulse about to hit north India from the west were all contributing to the heat. “Clear skies over Central India have been raising temperatures due to solar heating. Then, a western disturbance approaching north India has changed the wind direction to southerly, which is bringing in heat. In addition, a wind pattern over Central India, called an anti-cyclone, is also pumping in heat,” he said.
 
 Mohapatra said the hot conditions would abate slightly after the western disturbance passes, leading to northerly wind flows. The temperatures would start dropping thereafter, giving respite from the present scorcher.
 
 Such a high heat in March is rare and could be pointing to global warming signals.
 
