NEW DELHI: The counting of the votes for the   Students’ Union elections started a few hours late after   insisted that cameras should be installed to record the process. 

 The counting thus began with drama, and there were to be several equally dramatic acts before the curtains came down on an election significant for its verdict.
 
 The counting was scheduled to take place over 16 rounds. After the first two rounds, the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad candidates had run up early leads for the four major positions, raising expectations that the four-year saffron run would continue. But the tables turned around noon, by which time around 10 rounds had been counted. Suddenly, it was NSUI’s Rocky Tuseed who seemed likely to emerge as the new union president.
 
 This trend elated the NSUI cadre, who began rejoicing, as usual, by raising raucous slogans. By 1pm, crackers, shouts and beats of the dhol replaced the tense silence that had fallen on the counting centre.
 
 Soon it was not only NSUI supporters who had increased, but also the cops. By then, around 12 rounds of counting had been completed and only the votes from west Delhi colleges remained to be tallied. This made NSUI all the more confident about an unexpected win given that west Delhi was the bastion of their presidential candidate, once a student of Shivaji College in Raja Garden.
 
 SUVs full of supporters began emptying at the community centre on Civil Lines where the counting was taking place. With NSUI sure of an upset win, Tuseed’s family too converged on Civil Lines, their hands heavy with garlands, their faces bright with smiles. 
 
 Amid all this, the ABVP cadre waited it out. Surprised by the setback, present and past DUSU post holders conversed in hushed tones, hoping for an unpredictable change in the trend. There wasn’t any. While they were visibly upset, the other parties that did not win seats either could, by contrast, be seen quite elated. “We believe that it was our struggle against campus violence that made ABVP lose DUSU,” reasoned AISA unit president Kawalpreet Kaur.
 
 By 2pm, the official verdict was in: the posts of president and vice-president for NSUI and those of secretary and joint secretary for ABVP. However, as information emerged from the counting centre of a wafer-thin margin in the votes garnered by the two organisations for the joint secretary’s position, NSUI supporters became restive and began alleging that the cameras in the counting centre had been switched off when the votes for joint secretary’s post were being tallied. 
 
 Slogans filled the air as the demand for a recount of votes gathered steam. NSUI leaders promptly submitted an application to the DUSU election committee, requesting a fresh tallying of votes. The panel decline to order a recount, leaving Congress supporters milling around the restricted area and creating pressure on the election committee.
 
 Police in riot gear quietly moved in as the situation became tense. It was then that NSUI decided to retreat and instead move court over the issue.
 
 The crowd then proceeded to the Arts Faculty in North Campus to celebrate. The victory march blocked the arterial Chhatra Marg for a long time, as the winners and their supporters atop SUVs made their way to the Vivekananda statue on the Arts Faculty complex for the traditional victory photo.
 
 
