GURUGRAM: Seven years after booking condominiums in   society in   on Golf Course Road (extension), and having paid over 75% of the unit cost, the fate of all 400   hangs fire, as the project is far from completion. For the buyers, the biggest shock is that rather than giving assurance and a timeline for completion, the project developer is asking them to pay additional amount, ostensibly for parking and miscellaneous charges.

 Worried about their investment, and hassled by the developer’s demand for additional amount, buyers have filed several   with DTCP, economic offences wing (EOW) and the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), but they say there is no resolution in sight.
 
 “The project, launched in 2009 and re-launched in May 2010, was to be completed in three years. In reality, this is 2017, and yet all 400 unit owners await completion of the project, having already paid over 75% of the cost,” said Swapnil Dubey, Orion Galaxy RWA, adding the familiar refrain of all such buyers — that they are forced to pay both EMI and rent. 
 
 He alleged the developer,   Private Limited, and promoters, have got a “one-sided” builder-buyer agreement (BBA) executed, after they had paid 30% of the unit value. “Even after the delay, there is no effort from the developer or promoters to convince buyers they are making a conscious effort to complete the project,” said Dubey. 
 
 Harish Chandra Singh, another buyer, said the buyer’s group has been requesting a revised completion schedule, but the developer is not ready to commit, proving their callousness. “Several efforts at communication by the buyer’s group failed to elicit any response. We’re nervous,” said Singh, urging government intervention.
 
 Hardik Hundia, another buyer, said while executing the BBA one-and-a-half years after bookings were accepted, the developer arbitrarily revised the super-built area by 10-15%, without increasing an inch of carpet area. “Recently, the builder sent a letter to all buyers, seeking extra money on the pretext of higher EDC and IDC. We’ve refused to pay unless developer proves the additional amount is commensurate with increases by Huda or DTCP,” said Hundia, adding the builder has also charged extra for car park space, without mentioning it the demand letter, which violates   ruling.
 
 Dubey said recently, the developer has also unilaterally altered the schedule of payment as listed in the BBA. “Demand letters are being sent to customers to extract more funds, violating the BBA. The developer is also seeking additional funds over and above ones listed in the BBA, under the head of statutory charges,” said Dubey.
 
 Following complaints from buyers, the issue was discussed at the meeting of allottee grievance redressal forum (AGRF) in April. “We had directed the developer to give a timeline for completion of project,” said a senior DTCP official.
 
 Despite repeated calls and SMSes, officials of Soni Infratech, the developer, could not be reached for their version of the story.
 
 
