NEW DELHI: The   (CIC) has ordered the   (NCW) to compensate an   applicant who was denied information by the women’s rights body. It also asked the   to probe the reason behind the abrupt removal of its joint secretary, who was hearing the plea of a former employee — the RTI applicant. The applicant had filed a sexual harassment complaint against another NCW official.

 The case pertains to a former woman research assistant who had accused the central public information officer of the NCW of sexually harassing her. It was alleged that the commission decided not to extend her contract.
 
 The woman filed an RTI application, demanding inspection of the files, contract and reports of NCW officials related to her complaint. When she failed to get a response, she approached the CIC.
 
 Information commissioner   found serious irregularities in the manner in which the woman’s RTI plea was handled.
 
 Acharyulu directed Satbir Bedi, member secretary, NCW, to find facts and suggest action against officers responsible for denial of information under the RTI Act and look into the “anti-RTI working” at the NCW.
 
 He also reiterated a previous order directing the NCW to pay Rs 50,000 as compensation to the applicant, while putting a penalty on the public information officer. In a previous hearing, the CIC had noted that the NCW CPIO was the same person who was facing the charge of sexual harassment. It had said the official obstructed access to information. Acharyulu had imposed a penalty on the CPIO, but he had filed a plea for reconsideration, which was rejected.
 
 Acharyulu also questioned the “abrupt” removal of the first appellate authority, Vandana Gupta, who was also the joint secretary. “It is clear from her written submission that Gupta was not allowed to complete the hearing process. She was abruptly removed from service in violation of norms that suggest a joint secretary should not be relieved until a substitute officer is appointed,” Acharyulu said.
 
 The first appellate authority is an official senior to the central public information officer who responds to an RTI application. If an applicant is not satisfied with the response of the CPIO, he or she can file a first appeal before the FAA.
 
 The information commissioner directed Bedi to complete the fact-finding process within a month and file a report before October 20 along with relevant documents.
 
