NAGPUR:   operated by   as well as other schools in city have pushed the panic button after the recent Ryan International (Gurugram) tragedy in which a boy was murdered. They have banned the unregulated entry of bus drivers and conductors on campus. 

 The Ryan Group operates two schools under the St Xaviers banner in Nagpur. The Hiwri Nagar branch (the other being at Hingna) that TOI visited on Wednesday had banned entry of buses inside the gate due to which students had to disembark in a congested parking lot in front of the campus. 
 
 With kids arriving to school by buses, private vans and on vehicles driven by parents, traffic in the area got very chaotic.
 
 Xaviers’ bus drivers and conductors were asked to submit two passport-size photographs on Wednesday by the school authorities. One of the bus drivers, speaking on condition of anonymity, said, “Though the buses are owned by the school, drivers and conductors are outsourced. Earlier we would take the buses inside the campus,” he said.
 
 The driver added that “all drivers and conductors seem to be under suspicion”. “On Tuesday, the traffic police were here taking photographs while we the kids were getting off.” Totally, 11 buses ply at the Hiwri Nagar branch. 
 
 A majority of the parents coming to drop their kids at the schools were not happy with the new rules as they felt it created traffic problems and compromised safety of children. “Even now some people are bringing their two-wheelers right till the gate, which is dangerous for kids who are walking. With the new rule, these buses parked outside are creating more chaos,” said a parent.
 
 Another parent said, “After the Noida incident, the school is asking parents to sign a register before we can take our wards home. CCTVs cameras are must in every corner of the school.” 
 
 The school’s principal refused to meet this reporter citing ‘meetings’ and the receptionist offered to give an appointment after ‘written’ queries were submitted to her. TOI requested the principal to confirm if the new instructions were being issued by her. Till the time of going to press she had not got back.
 
 Though not coordinated, many other schools too have banned entry of buses and parents inside the campus. Inderpreet Tuli, director of Edify School, said, “Buses have to remain outside and we have made arrangements for the drivers and conductors in a separate room. Here they can sit, have lunch, charge their mobiles and use a separate wash room. They will not be allowed inside the building.” 
 
 Mala Chembath, principal of Narayana Vidyalayam, said, “We are strictly regulating entry of outsiders inside campus now, which includes bus staff. The buses will drop kids inside campus and immediately move out to the parking area. Also the bus staff will use separate wash rooms and won’t have access to the building.” 
 
 Schools are also stepping up pressure on outsourced bus staff to ensure nobody has a criminal record. Mukta Chatterjee, executive director of Centre Point Group of Schools, said, “The rule was already in place and now we have asked the staff contractor to ensure that police verification records are updated.” 
 
 Bus contractor   said he has communicated the new rules to his staffers. “On Tuesday, there was a meeting at   and we were told to keep drivers and conductors outside the campus. We will ensure that the guidelines are followed,” said Jog.
 
 
