
 
 
  
 
  
 Anindya Chattopadhyay's   (PB) revolves around Shaon and Antor, a newly married couple living in a joint family . While   has always been a bit shaky and unsure of his decisions, Shaon is just the opposite. Theirs is a regular story , till crisis strikes in the form of childlessness. The couple tries everything in their capacity to revive their romance; they even consider going for IVF , but nothing could change their love for each other. “Projapoti Biskut aapnar pasher barir golpo. You can relate to all the characters in the film. They are just like you and me! The story revolves around a middle-class household that highlights the simplicity of love and the natural essence of friendship that form the crux of any relationship,“ said Shiboprosad Mukherjee, the presenter of the film, when CT met him for an exclusive chat session where the lead cast, Ishaa Saha and Aditya Sengupta, were also present. Excerpts...
 
  Is it true that Shiboprosad and Mimi were supposed to play the lead in Projapoti Biskut?
 
 Shiboprosad Mukherjee: (Laughs) Well, yes! But how did you find this out?
 
  Anindyada had first approached Mimi and me for the film. But after reading the script, I felt that he should cast new faces.I realised that would do justice to the script. The film would be more believable with new faces. Then Anindyada told me about Ishaa and Aditya. Though director saheb ( ) was upset with me initially as I had refused him twice -once for Open Tee Bioscope and again for PB -he liked my idea.
 
 Shiboprosad Mukherjee: And once the film was shot and we saw Ishaa and Aditya as Shaon and Antor, we were convinced.Anindyada understood why I was insisting on casting new faces.
 Ishaa Saha: Mimidi and you would have done a great job. Both of you are brilliant actors. Why don't we see much of you as an actor, Shibuda? The nation wants to know... (laughs)!
 SM: The script required a fresh approach, which only the two of you could have managed. People will now come out of theatres taking you for Shaon and not Ishaa.I must admit both of you have done a brilliant job.
 
 Were you jittery when you first met Shiboprosad?
 IS: Yes, I was. But soon, he made me feel at home. Shibuda is super-cool. He means business. He won't chat with us just like that and all the discussions we had were only work-related. Nothing more, nothing less.
 Aditya Sengupta: It was my aspiration, dream and ambition to become a director. I have watched almost all his films and feel that he is the only director who understands every aspect of filmmaking -be it shot division, marketing or promotional strategy. The inputs he gave in for PB were amazing and the way he has done the promotions is praiseworthy . I always wanted to meet him to take tips for direction, but as luck would have it, I met him as an actor.However, I was not jittery as he made things easy from the very first meeting.
 
 
 Did you ever ask Anindya, why he chose Projapoti Biskut as the title?
 IS: We didn't have to ask... He explained everything on the very first day . Projapoti in Bengali symbolises love, marriage and togetherness, while biskut adds crunchiness to it. So, our film happens to be a muchmuche premer golpo. Love is always in its best phase before marriage, but runs out of steam once you tie the knot. Our film deals with understanding of a married couple. After watching the film, you will understand there couldn't have been a better and apt title than this.
 
 
 It's your debut film. It has released with other movies of big stars like Prosenjit Chatterjee, Dev, Koel Mallick, Jisshu U Sengupta, Nusrat Jahan, Ankush et al. Are you nervous?
 SM: Yes, every star wants a Puja release and you got one as debutants. I must say , you are lucky . So, how does it feel?
 AS: People who are presenting us, like Shibuda, Nanditadi (Roy) and Anindyada are all big stars in their own right. Why should we feel nervous? I guess others are nervous for us (laughs)!
 IS: Ami toh khub-e nervous. But it's a great feeling when you see yourself on the poster amidst a host of other matinee idols.
 AS: True. Getting to share space with stars like Bumbada and Dev is a big achievement for us. Till recently , we used to see their hoardings on the roads, in theatres, but now I can also see myself in one of those hoardings. It was my father, who first sent me a picture of one of the hoardings. I just can't explain how it felt.
 IS: I went to a theatre and took a selfie in front of a standee. What a feeling it was (tears in her eyes)! You know, it's like how a mother feels when she holds her baby for the first time. I am getting butterflies in my stomach.
 
  
 So, how you bag the role? And how is Anindya as a director?
 AS: Anindyada had sent a message via Kheya (Chattopadhyay) asking me to meet him. When he offered me the role, I was nervous as acting was never my forte. As I said, I wanted to be a director. I have done theatre, but not a full-fledged feature film.But Anindyada was very supportive. He encouraged and helped me in every possible way . And I loved the way he took care of every detail on the sets. The script, locations and people around me -everything put together -helped me perform better.
 IS: Aditya was not there on the first day of the shoot. It was just me. Shibuda and Nanditadi were at the helm of affairs. I was constantly giving retakes. Finally , I gave the right shot and Anindyada and Shibuda were happy .
 SM: We can't predict the audience. So, whether the film will be appreciated by them or not, we have no idea. But you two are definitely here to stay . This industry expects a lot from this new pair.
 IS: Of course. But it depends on the audience. We are yet to see if they welcome me with open arms. I can never be a part of out-and-out commercial films, where you need to sing and dance around trees and snow-clad mountains. I can't dance to save my life.
 AS: My aim is to be a filmmaker. I have studied a lot for that. But if any good offer comes my way , like PB, I might take it up.
 
  
 SM: There is a dearth of good actors here.The industry needs actors like you. That apart, you got a perfect launch pad with such a sensible director guiding you at every step. You two should use that knowledge in future too.
 AS: Shibuda, I have a question for you.After having worked with you, I have realised that a lot of creativity goes into making a film, but you need the same amount of creativity , if not more, to promote a film as well. Can you tell us what according to you is a good promotional activity?
 SM: I think the product should complement its promotion -otherwise the audience feels cheated. And if you cheat the audience once, you will never get them back. Many other songs were released after Tomake bujhina priyo, but Chandrani's song connected the most with the audience. No matter how much you promote a film, ultimately it's about making a connect. It is the content that speaks louder than words. The audience should be able to relate to the story and the characters. Only then can a film do well.
 
 
