NAGPUR: Experiments by the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Rural Industrialization (MGIRI), Wardha, and   (CICR) have shown that hair amino acids can increase yield of   by 10-20% or 2-4 quintal per hectare. The experiment, however, needs to be tried at a bigger level and in multi-location trials to confirm the findings further.

 CICR director Keshav Kranthi told TOI that the results appear quite promising but the experiment needs to be extended to more areas and different locations to derive conclusive evidence. “The experiment was conducted at CICR in replicated trials in three fields of 30 sq m each.   amino-acids were used in combination with  ,” said Kranthi.
 
 Head of crop production division Blaize DeSouza, who headed the experiment, explained that the human hair extract along with cow urine was used as a spray. A control was also kept along with a combination of NPK (nitrogen, phosphorous, potassium) and NPK plus water combination. The experiment was conducted by Blaize on Ajit 155 Bt cotton hybrid along with CICR colleague G Ramakrishna.
 
 “Though we didn’t find visible effect or any change in the fibre quality there was an average increase of 10-20% per hectare with a yield increase of 2-4 quintals per hectare. The spray is needed twice during the flowering season. It causes better retention of bolls in the plant. We tried three variations of the spray and obtained best results with 9ml and 12ml/litre of water of the amino-acid-cow urine mixture given to us by MGIRI,” said DeSouza.
 
 MGIRI director PB Kale said the institute had tried the experiment in other crops too with farmers, but those trials were not as scientific. “Hence, we gave the hair amino-acid-cow urine mixture to CICR for scientific trials. We have also filed for a patent on the mixture. There are a few devoted entrepreneurs too who have tried the human hair   spray on tur, soyabean etc,” he said.
 
 KR Yadav, deputy director MGIRI, who actually developed the hair amino acid first, told TOI that hair contains various amino acids including cysteine (sulphur rich) and is rich in nitrogen. He has been working on the project for over five years in MGIRI.
 
 Yadav said that human hair amino acid was also found to show an increase in chlorophyll content of plants by 300 times. “We wish that the formulation is tried at large scale in other agro-climatic zones and other crops like rice and wheat. We want to create cottage industries of this formulation of at least 20 litres per day as it is a simple technique and is not rocket technology. Small farmers can also prepare it at village level,” added Yadav.
 
