THANE: Fed up with the continuous bickering of his separating parents, his dropping grades and a cheating girlfriend, 15-year-old Shubham Joshi (named changed) took the sharp blade from his razor and carved multiple slits on his arm in an attempt to let go do his pent up frustration, anger and pain.

 He immediately washed away the flowing blood, applied an antiseptic ointment, covered the scarring wounds with bandages, wore a long sleeved t-shirt and painted a smile on his face, ensuring that his parents wouldn’t find out of his painful coping method.
 
 Just like Shubham, a large section of youngsters seem to have found solace from their misery, rage and isolation by inflicting non-suicidal injuries on themselves.
 
 In a recent incident, seven class VII students slashed their wrists using pencil sharpening blades as a dare to each other.
 
 City   and psychiatrists who have witnessed a growing trend of such incidents over the past few years peg these acts of inward rage to a string of issues ranging from dysfunctional or distant family relationships and romantic relationships to bullying, peer pressure and problems about body image.
 
 Child and adolescent psychiatrist, Dr Avinash DeSousa believes that these children participate in a condition called non-suicidal self-injury, wherein they are not actually trying to commit suicide, but venting their emotions through pain. “Most of these cases crop up in families where the parents are either working and aloof or quarrelling, romantic relationships where the child doesn’t understand how to deal with a broken relationship, incidents of bullying, peer pressure and so on. Some get addicted to the high they get when the brain releases a chemical called opioid to reduce their pain in cases of injuries,” added Dr DeSousa. 
 
  school counsellors have also been witnessing a number of such incidents occurring within the school premises. Minal Pinto, one such student counsellor at St. John the Baptist School in  , said, “Most of these issues boil over to such an extreme extent because these students bottle up their frustrations, rage and all other negativity as they have no avenue to vent it out. They think of these non-serious injuries as a way of ridding themselves of these difficulties. Many do it as a cry for attention and help from their troubles. During these times, teachers and parents should ensure that they give the child a listening ear and come up with positive solutions to their problems.”
 
 I receive three such cases of non-suicidal self-injury weekly and come across children from the ages of 10 to adolescents aged 25 suffering through this. Majority of these cases come from the 12 to 25 age group as they are exposed to peer-pressure and hormonal changes
 
 
