PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation has expedited the process of construction of the waste-to-energy plant at its Moshi garbage depot.

 A few days back, mayor Nitin Kalje visited the garbage depot, and on Wednesday, he held a meeting with sanitation and environment officers for giving a push to the waste-to-energy project. Incidentally, the energy project is on top of the list of BJP's Bhosari MLA Mahesh Landge, who had unveiled the Vision 2020 programme for the assembly constituency a few months back. For the first time, the BJP has won with a thumping majority in the municipal corporation.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Sanjay Kulkarni, environment engineer, PCMC, said, “We expect to generate 11 MW of power at the proposed waste-to-energy plant considering that 800 tons of garbage are generated in the city daily. The project will be implemented on a Private-Public Partnership basis wherein the private contractor will invest money while PCMC will provide only requisite land and garbage to the unit. The private contractor has to earn money through selling the generated power to others. Nine contractors had submitted their request for qualification (RFQ) to us out of which six qualified. We will be inviting bids in April for selecting the contractors for implementing this project. Other eligible contractors who had not submitted RFQs earlier can also submit bids for the project.”
 
 He added, “The bidders will have to submit their bids by suggesting usage of the technology which will give maximum power production, making the project financially viable. PCMC can consume a large portion of the power generated from this project as it needs large quantities of power for running its main office building, six zonal offices, raw water pumping station, water treatment plant (WTP), swimming pools, auditoriums, multi-specialty   (YCM) hospital, and gymnasiums. The project will be completed in around 2 years after the work order is allotted to the contractor.”
 
 At the meeting on Wednesday, Kalje discussed environmental issues and directed officials to increase the number of effluent treatment plants so that there is no pollution of Pavana, Indrayani and Mula rivers. “PCMC should encourage big housing societies and private hospitals to have small effluent treatment plants. The municipal corporation should also take steps for proper disposal of electronic waste,’’ he said. Among others who were present at the meeting included joint city engineer  , and divisional officer Chandrakant Khose, besides environment engineer Kulkarni.
 
