MYSURU: As inspector   lay gasping in the front passenger seat of the mangled police jeep on NH-212 on Saturday evening, a few eyewitnesses pulled out their mobile phones and recorded the police officer bleeding to death. Precious minutes ticked by, but no one bothered to shift the bleeding officer to hospital. 

 The road accident near Chikkalli, that claimed the lives of two police officers, only highlighted the insensitivity of eyewitnesses during such a horrifying accident. By the time SP   reached the spot, 10 minutes had passed and Mahesh Kumar was sinking, with blood was oozing out of his sensory organs. It took them another 10 minutes to extricate the officer from the remains of the jeep and shift him to hospital. 
 
  Although his condition was bad, there was still a slim chance that he may have survived, had he been shifted to hospital by onlookers. 
 
  An officer said people are still fearful of the consequences of rescuing a road accident victim, and there is a need to create awareness among the public that they will not be put to any kind of harassment. 
 
  Driver, victims questioned 
 
  An inquiry into the road accident which claimed the lives of the two officers revealed that the police jeep was speeding.   bus driver Basavaraj, who received minor injuries, told police that the jeep had crossed the median, which resulted in the accident. Mahesh Kumar and jeep driver Lakshman were heading towards Suttur village when the tragedy happened. 
 
 The jeep toppled and fell into a roadside gorge after hitting the bus near Chikkalli, some 11km from Mysuru. 
 
 Police also identified two persons who were injured in the same accident and recorded their version too. Venkatesh and Durgaiah were closely following the police jeep on a bike that collided with the jeep after the accident. Venkatesh sustained injuries on his head while Durgaiah, riding pillion, was injured. The duo, residents of Nelamangala, was drunk and fled the spot after the accident. 
 
  Assistant commissioner of police (traffic) KN Madaiah said KSRTC bus driver Basavaraju claimed innocence. He was treated as an outpatient while none in the bus was injured. 
 
  Siddarthanagar traffic police took up a case against the bus driver for rash driving on a public highway; causing hurt by act endangering the personal safety of others and causing death by negligence under the IPC. 
 
