HYDERABAD: It has produced several top-notch achievers and counts Rajiv Gandhi, Kobad Gandhy, Amitav Ghosh and Abhinav Bindra among its illustrious alumni. But The   now has a dubious distinction of being the alma matter of a drug dealer,  , a former NASA scientist-turned-narcotics peddler.

 Had the excise sleuths delayed nabbing Anish for a week, he would have taken a flight to Paris and enrolled in an MBA programme at a prestigious international business school, HEC Paris.
 
 Special Investigation Team (SIT) sleuths of the excise department, who arrested Anish from his office in  , were shocked when they discovered his background. “Phones were ringing non-stop after Anish was arrested. Several influential people enquired if we were sure about the evidence against him,“ an excise official said. When officials grilled him about his background, Anish confirmed that he went to The Doon School and later studied aerospace engineering at  . He also told investigators about his one-year stint as a scientist with NASA. “I worked as Collision Analyst at NASA Goddard Space Flight Centre,“ Anish told his interrogators. Anish worked in half-a-dozen firms before returning to launch his own business in his home town.
 
 Excise sleuths, who analysed his drug purchase pattern on the Darknet, realised he was not into the illegal trade for money . For an LSD blot, Anish was getting about `2,000 profit, which is peanuts for a man of his financial standing. “We believe he was cocking a snook at law-enforcement agencies just for the kicks,“ an interrogator said.
 
 “When we raided his office, Anish was surprisingly calm. When we found LSD blots, he tried to fool us saying they were stamps and drawing papers. Later, he confessed he had consumed drugs in the US and had been purchasing the contraband on the Darknet for the past two years,“ an officer said.
 
 Excise sleuths are planning to file a petition in court seeking Anish's custody to know more about his clients and modus operandi.
 
