BENGALURU: In the coming days, parents of toddlers will have to brave more than the scorching sun. With   officially supposed to begin in March-April, anxious parents will go the extra mile to get their kids enrolled in the best schools. However, the existing guidelines make it an uphill task.

 Failure to meet the criteria laid down by the rules -prox laid down by the rules -proximity of the school from the house and having another child on the school's rolls -can leave parents at a disadvantage, distancing them from the institution of their choice.
 
 Natasha Bhandari, head of admissions,  , says they look at the academic history and personal development of the child. “We receive hundreds of applications every year. We ask parents to ensure their kids are potty-trained and can eat on their own. They also need to be academically ready and should be able to socialize with their peers. If the applicants are from Bengaluru, they have to visit us for an informal chat,“ she said.
 
 M Srinivasan, founder and chairman of GEAR foundation, said nursery admissions have undergone tremendous change. “In the past 20 years, demand has far exceeded supply. Schools have started keeping admissions open round the year,“ he said.
 
 The clamour over nursery admissions witnessed in the past had resulted in guidelines being issued by the Ashok Ganguly committee, which laid down certain criteria for admission -distance between the applicant's home and school, the applicant having a sibling in the school or being the child of an alumnus, etc.
 
 School principals say though they conduct admissions on a first-come-firstserved basis, huge preference is given to students who adhere to the sibling rule. Manila Carvalho, founder and principal of DPS East, said the admission cycle usually begins in January and goes on till the seats are filled. “We give topmost priority to students with siblings in our schools. Next, we see if they are the children of alumni. We also try to accommodate students who have been transferred from within our DPS network. If we manage to fill our class strength of 40 students, we give preference to kids who live nearby,“ Manila explained.
 
 Shashi Kumar, manager of   and general secretary of Associated Managements of Private School in Karnataka (KAMS), said they recommend only those kids who live within 3km of a particular school. “We don't provide transport to students who stay more than 5km away .It can be strenuous for a small child to traverse the distance daily,“ he said.
 
 Apart from these hurdles, parents and students are often made to participate in an “interaction“, though the guidelines prohibit any kind of interview. Nooraine Fazal, principal of   , says the interaction gives them an insight into the sensi bility of the parents and students. “Schools are not supposed to interview parents but it still happens,“ she said.
 
 Manju Balasubramanium, principal, DPS North, feels a meeting is essential to understand the child's background.“If I don't meet them, the learning gap may be larger. We also look out for developmental disorders,“ she said.
 
 According to M A Khan, head of  , parents nowadays are more concerned about the school's brand value rather than how much attention it pays to kids. “Education has become a business. Parents want to flaunt their child's school. They may feel a school which interviews them may be superior to other institutions,“ he said.
 
