PUNE: Several tracts of industrial land belonging to the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) in Pimpri, Bhosari and Akurdi area are yet to be updated in the  , senior   said after a recent assessment.

 Nearly 1,250 hectares of land are with the MIDC in this area and several records are yet to be updated.
 
 Regional officer of MIDC Sanjeev Deshmukh said he found that there were several areas, which were not updated in the record of rights. “We are following up with officials of the collectorate,” stated Deshmukh.
 
 “The work of updating the records was undertaken by special land acquisition officers from the revenue department for checking the awards or compensation for the land and the stages of land acquisition and final mutation entries. The work is yet to be completed,” stated Deshmukh. “We are following up with the district administration to get our records clear,” Deshmukh said.
 
 Senior administration officials said they had some queries in the cases that have been pending for many years. “There are several compensations that have been shown on paper. We need some clarifications from MIDC. We have called for a joint meeting to address this issue,’’stated a senior revenue official, highlighting the difficulty in entering the names directly in the mutation extracts. 
 
 The official added that the volume is huge and each case needs to be   as all the procedures for land acquisition have to be examined before entering the names into the record of rights.
 
 After two controversies, including that of former revenue minister Eknath Khadse, the MIDC had geared up for a mammoth exercise of reviewing its land records to ensure that all its acquisition proceedings are reflected accurately. In PCMC area, the land has been acquired for industrial purpose from 1968 years onwards and details are being assessed for these 40 years. MIDC has a land bank of approximately 78,000 hectares in the state. Around 73,000 hectares are expected to be added soon.
 
 For the process of updation, all divisional commissioners had asked the revenue department to get all its acquisition proceedings reflected in the revenue records. The effort was to help in all future acquisitions as well as have clear titles, stated MIDC officials.
 
