NAGPUR: The Day 2 of  's second tournament of the   saw the city's lone International Master (IM) signing peace treaty with 60-year-old Spanish Fide Master (FM) at Catalonia, Spain, on Thursday.

 The 50-year-old, despite playing with the black pieces, got success in holding higher ranked   in their second round tie of the nine-day XL Open International   del Valles chess tournament. 
 
 Replying to Alejandro's Kings Pawn opening, Deshmukh opted to play some risky moves by going for the Scheilman Gambit setup. His strategy paid dividends as he got into a winning position. But persistent efforts put up by his opponent led Dehsmukh to play inaccurate moves which denied the city master a win on Thursday.
 
 Post the match, Deshmukh was all praise for opponent. "I was surprised with his tenacity. It was inspiring to see a 60-year-old, with two IM norms, maintaining a rating of 2387. He was fitter than me. Later he told me that he regularly plays in all the European circuit tournaments," Deshmukh said. 
 
 Talking about the 62-move draw, Deshmukh said that he wanted to play attacking chess. "I selected the Scheilman Gambit against his   setup, which is very risky. But I wanted to play attacking game today. This kind of a ploy - to sacrifice a pawn for attack in the Fischer style - will find many takers among the new generation. But to pull it off, one requires judgement, understanding and intuition," Deshumkh said. 
 
 Deshmukh further added that the unrelenting effort of his aged rival led to him letting go of an winning position. 
 
 "I was in awe of Alejandro's tenacity. After 31 moves I had almost won the game. But he just refused to go down. Imagine a 60-year-old using all the resources at his disposal to come out of a hopeless situation. His child-like enthusiasm led me to commit a few mistakes," Deshmukh admitted. 
 
 "While analyzing the game, we both became good friends and I made him my inspirational Guru as well," he added. 
 
 In the third round Deshmukh will start with the white pieces against Women Grandmaster and two-time age-category World Champion Cori Deysi of Peru on the 10th board. 
 
