Whoa! This ‘Henpecked’ sure has guts: Not merely to don a quirky name but even more to open in a seemingly jinxed location, the graveyard of two restaurants (Farmer & Sons and Nicos). I lunched with two gutsy, perceptive Income Tax Commissioner foodies (my colleagues from the former Income Tax department). The vivacious Principal Commissioner,   is not only an English Literature gold medallist, post-grad in public policy, a theatre, literature and fashion aficionado but also a globetrotting foodie.   resigned as commissioner (like I did), studied at Harvard and has made his mark as an artist and corporate consultant. Lakshmi noted the flavours, textures and décor with keen alertness even as she held forth on the department’s high-tech e-governance measures. We discussed my 15 wonderful years in the IRS. It was a fun afternoon of taxes and food…

 
 
 Tucked into the crammed armpit of Fort,   is difficult to locate. Walk into a pleasant, long narrow room with wooden tables. Cute knick-knacks in a large wall-cabinet add to the charm of this neatly done up space.
 
 
 
 When in Henpecked, steer clear of the ‘Nagging Caesar’ (name of the salad). Get racist, ask for the ‘White Pizza’ (sans tomato puree) called Mr GoGo. Our superb wood-fired thin crust had an intense earthy topping of shitake, mushrooms and truffle oil set off by the creamy chèvre. Delicious ‘Red Pizza’ too, with plenty of topping and crust options, but our vote goes to the white one. Get the ‘Hickory Dickory Dock’ sandwich — hickory smoked barbecue-sauced chicken in erotic union with lofabu cheese between slices of crusty crunchy bread. Generous portions served on wooden platters — be it the Chicken Mezze (super-black hummus with garbanzo beans) or the medium Rare Filet Mignon. Delicate and flavourful Lemon Cake. Plenty for vegetarians.
 
 
 
 Difficult to locate. Parking impossible. The day we visited, plenty of dishes were not available… pork, cheese platter, Golden snitch dessert. Alas! The famous fish and chips served up a fish that was off. Mushy muddle of a Goat Cheese Patata Gnocchi. Overdressed Rosa Pasta, underdressed Spinach Avocado Salad. Cloying, hammering over-sweet Mocha Fudge Cake and Molleux dessert.
 
 
 
 Open through the day. Small, charming and unpretentious. Henpecked offers a breakfast menu, bar, healthy concoctions, too. Some dishes are stodgy, oversauced, the desserts, oversweet. By and large, Henpecked serves generous, hearty unpretentious (that word again) moderately-priced delicious pizza, sandwich and pasta fare. Go for the quirky name. Stay for the ‘Henpecked’ experience. Eat. Drink. Obey.
 
