KOLKATA: Some acts of   make one shudder, and leave people with a feeling that they should never be allowed to happen again. Yet, the   happened during  , taking countless lives.Years later, the violence during   also happened.   feel that there is a method to all this madness.

 Presidency University wants students to decipher the reasons, interpret those with an aim to prevent such genocide that people realise only after they become victims. The university has thus introduced ` A History of Mass Violence: Twentieth Century to the Present', as a paper in the postgraduate history programme. What constitutes mass violence? “It is always a debatable issue as to what term is most appropriate to describe a particular episode of mass violence, depending on its scale, magnitude and the motives behind it.It could be a genocide pogrom, ethnic cleansing, riots, or others. The course throws light on this debate,“ said Navras Jaat Aafreedi, course coordinator and teacher of history at Presidency University . All these have a common thread -mass destruction and devastation -lea ving a lasting impression on generations to come. But in all these cases, there are some warning signals. “The warning signs of a possible mass violence are palpable. Nothing can be more helpful than to prevent its occurrence. The course aspires to develop the capability of identifying the warning signs,“ said Aafreedi. “It is a course with hardly any parallel in the country ,“ said Presidency vicechancellor Anuradha Lodhia.
 
 The paper doesn't include incidents like Godhra or Muzaffarnagar at the moment, but it brings under scrutiny the debate over freedom of speech and inflammatory speech to identify the elements that prepare the grounds for mass violence. The VC said: “We have tried to ke ep instances from all over the world instead of concentrating only on India so that students do not have a myopic view.“
 
 Some historians maintain that mass violence is used as a tool most often by the powers that be for political gains. The new course doesn't jump to conclusions, sources said. Instead, it pans over the examples in history and tries to answer why some people why actively or passively support the perpetrators. “The course proposes to scan the diversity in behaviour -some going with the perpetrators, a few putting their lives at risk to rescue others and many acting as onlookers. It helps students gain an understanding of the choices people have and take a look at the reasons that explain their difference in behaviour,“ the Presidency teacher said. The course highlights the role of the second category -the rescuers -so that people don't choose to look the other way . While doing so, it sticks to objectivity while capturing the entire scene -mass violence, mass displacement, response at regional, national and international levels, response from the judiciary , response from mass media and also the manner in which it makes way to textbooks. “History , the way it is being taught, is often a victim of propaganda. Regimes often place their stooges in all the key positions at the premier institutions of the country for the creation of a vicious atmosphere. Political regimes can't succeed in carrying out their evil designs if scholars do not give them the backroom support for petty gains,“ Aafreedi said, pointing to the trauma and the problems of rehabilitation that victims have to face. “Reconciliation in South Africa, Bosnia and Herzegovina and other conflict zones has found a place in the curriculum. The paper throws light on conflicting narratives or denial statements, such as Turkey's refusal to take the blame for the Armenian genocide in 1915, Japan's denial of any wrongdoing in Manchuria, or Pakistan not taking the blame for the genocide that gave birth to Bangladesh. The paper throws light on these conflicting narratives, denial or minimization,“ Aafreedi explained.
 
