BENGALURU: At the busy  , a cautious teenager attempted to cross the road on a summer afternoon. She had taken a couple of tentative steps when a bike-borne youngster groped her and flashed a confident `I will get away with it' smile, before speeding off.
 
 Stunned, and as humiliation set in, teary-eyed, she looked back at an elderly man waiting behind her to cross the road for some sympathy , and hoped he had noted the number of the bike. Shockingly , his focus was entirely on the length of her shorts -and not on the pervert on the bike. He walked past, shaking his head, his look and unsaid words suggesting she was to blame because of the kind of clothes she wore.
 
 That day onwards, the girl carried a pencil knife, promising herself she would use it some day. But the wound refused to heal. More than two decades on, she still cringes at the thought of crossing the road. She rarely does it without another person next to her.
 
 While people have been pouring their hearts out on how Bengaluru has been shamed by the New Year fiasco on MG Road, I wonder how many have asked themselves, `have I ever helped, tried to understand or reached out to a person in distress or someone who has been violated'?
 The easiest way out is to blame the system, `westerniza tion', and of course, the length of the woman's dress or the depth of her neckline! For us journalists, having to mingle with people of varied backgrounds, strata of society and cultures, dealing with some men who waste no opportunity to `touch' is par for the course.
 
 The most appalling is when people push you towards disturbing situations, even when they have the power to help you avoid it. I can recount a bitter experience during the   last season. As I waded through a crowd of more than 500, mostly men, while heading towards the designated gate for media access at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium, I was stopped by policemen who believed I had to enter through the main gate. Even as I rea soned with them, a top cop entered the scene and dismissed me, saying I couldn't enter through the designated gate. He said he didn't care if the media had used the gate for more than a decade. At that moment, he was the authority who refused to allow me access to the stadi um. A drizzle had set in by then, and I was left with no choice but to plead with the officer to allow me to enter the stadium.
 
 I pointed towards the restless crowd and told him, “I won't be able to make it through that crowd again without being violated. Even if you think I've entered from the wrong gate, please make an allowance or have me escorted out.“ The response as he walked away was a terse “not my problem, you won't be permitted to enter“.
 
 A lower ranked policeman, witness to the incident, shrugged, “Idu yaake beku nimmage (Do you need this)?“ It was, of course, my fault that I was a minority -a woman -at a cricket stadium, out to do a job. Timely intervention from the stadium authorities saved the day , but I shudder to think of what would have been had I been forced to walk back through that crowd. To this day , I wonder if the officer's response would have been the same if a woman from his family, a friend or daughter of a friend was in my place. There have been instances when I have confronted or chased men who have tried to pinch or touch me. But the battle on the busy streets is often fought alone with spectators, women included, often sizing up my character by what I wear.
 
 MANY SHADES OF MEN
 
 It is unfair to paint all men with the same brush. There are men -friends, strangers and acquaintances -who have made me feel protected. Like a legendary Karnataka cricketer who, after a long flight, was speaking to the media gathered at the old Bengaluru airport in the wee hours. On noticing my discomfort at being nudged and pushed, he moved a couple of steps to ensure I wasn't discomfited. I wouldn't have faulted him if he hadn't shown concern, but those few steps he took to protect me, made me believe there were more than a few good men around me.
 
 A senior journalist and friend, in response to my distress mail on the lack of facilities for women journalists in a stadium, ended his words of comfort, which later translated into a solution saying, “I apologize to you on behalf of all the uncaring men in the world.“
 
 I hope someday, uncaring men make his apology count.Until then, let's stop blaming Bengaluru, because the city has always been safe. It is us who have made it unsafe. Before action happens, attitudes have to change. Meanwhile... the pen knife still occupies a prime place in the handbag.
 
