TRICHY: Trapped in   for over a year and a half, 34 people, including women and children, belonging to Irula tribal community were rescued from Alangudi near Pudukkottai district on Tuesday. They were working in a sugarcane farm owned by one Pushparaj at Keelathur village in Alangudi when a team from the district administration led by sub collector R Jeyabarathi rescued them. 

 Among the rescued were 27 adults — 16 male and 11 females — besides seven children — four girls and three boys. None of the children goes to school and have access to medical facilities or proper food. They will now be taken back to Villupuram from where they were brought by an agent named S Kumar hailing from Vikramapandi to work in agricultural farms in various districts. 
 
 They were taken to a farm in Trichy 18 months ago on the promise of good salary and were given Rs 3,000 as one-time payment. Thereafter, they were not paid anything and made to work day and night. Striking a deal with agricultural land owners, Kumar used to take them in a vehicle and make them toil. Made to live in makeshift arrangements, they used to be shifted from one place to another and Pudukkottai was their fourth destination after Trichy,   
 
 “They were treated in the most inhumane way possible,” says secretary general of   K Krishnan. “It was shocking to know that among the rescued was a 20-year-old woman pregnant for eight months. She was not allowed to visit hospital and hasn’t taken even a single vaccine so far,” said Krishnan. “Beaten up by Kumar and his associates when asked about salary or permission to return, many a days they were forced to live on porridge and gruel,” he said.
 
 They were not allowed to return to attend even funerals of their relatives. Krishnan, who met relatives of these people in Villupuram as part of creating awareness on RTE act, was informed about the group taken by Kumar for  . The accused, hailing from Villupuram and who has been acting as an agent to these people, is absconding. Sub collector Jeyabarathi assured that strict action would be initiated against Kumar who had forced these people into bonded labour. Arrangements will be made to send the rescued people back to Villupuram.
 
