BENGALURU: Young Indian shuttler  , whose solid performances last year saw him vault up the charts, attained the world No. 1 spot among juniors after the latest Badminton World Federation (BWF) rankings were announced on Thursday.
 
 The 15-year-old lad from Almora, Uttarakhand, who has been training at the   here for the past six years, ended 2016 at No. 8 before jumping to No. 3 the following week. He finally displaced Chinese Taipei's Chia Hao Lee (16,091 points), with just two points separating the two in the latest list. What makes the junior National champion's feat all the more credible is the fact that he has gathered his points from eight tournaments, six fewer than his closest rival.
 
 Lakshya, who trains under badminton legends   and U Vimal Kumar, won the bronze medal in the U-17 Badminton Asia Championships at Kudus, Indonesia in 2015 before collecting another bronze in the U-19 edition in Thailand last year. He emerged triumphant in the all India senior ranking tournament in Itanagar. Another highlight was his gold medal in the India International Series event at Hyderabad trumping Malaysian ace Zii Jia Lee in the final.
  
 A prodigious talent, Lakshya has also won the Wimbledon Junior, Danish Junior and Swiss Junior titles in the past.
  
 "He is quite sharp and picks up tactical points quickly. His basics are strong, he is fit and a sincere, dedicated shuttler. As of now, he has all the qualities of a champion and we expect him to do well going forward," Padukone told TOI on Thursday. "We're happy that he's achieved the top ranking, but I'm from the old school of thought where players must win important tournaments, beat good players and then become No. 1," he said, urging the youngster to follow the example of Spaniard Carolina Marin. 
 
 Padukone said the academy had charted out a detailed plan for the youngster this year. "Up to December, he will be playing a number of senior events. It will be a gradual process, where he will play two or three tournaments at a time before a training period of 2-3 weeks. The main events will be the World Championships and Asian Championships," he said, stressing that preparation was as important as performances.
 
 The former All England champion said it was important for Lakshya to imbibe good values and not focus too much on rankings alone. "Whenever he plays a tournament he has to give 100% and has to be fully fit. He has to stick to a calendar of events irrespective of whether he does well or not. He should not play events just to lift his rankings," he said.
  
 "Prakash sir personally looks after his training and we have provided a full-time physio and trainer. He is on a special diet as well," said Olympic Gold Quest CEO  .
 
