RAMTEK: Union human resource development minister   on Sunday said the degrees of   (KKSU), here, would be the first to be registered with the   (NAD) — a kind of digital bank modelled on the lines of financial securities depository.

 Speaking at the 7th convocation ceremony of KKSU, Javadekar citied the famous example of Ranchoddas Shyamaldas Chhanad from bollywood blockbuster ‘3 Idiots’ to explain the purpose of NAD. “Degrees and certificates will be digitized. NAD will ensure no Funsuk Wangdoo can pursue education on behalf of Ranchoddas and claim the degree. Making fake degrees and impersonification won’t be possible now,” he said, drawing a huge round of applause.
 
 He added that the students going abroad too won’t face trouble to get their original documents and they can be accessed online on NAD.
 
 “Just like shares, your degrees will be like investment through NAD. Your degrees would be the first to go in NAD,” he said.
 
 He said one of the main agenda in HRD today is internationalization of higher education. “Our universities must collaborate with top ranking universities abroad as well as with industries. We should focus on joint research projects, joint teach programmes, etc. We are also stressing on national framework for ranking of universities. With this, we want to identify top 10 varsities of India as centres of excellence and give them 100% autonomy,” he said. 
 
 Talking about his decision to attend the ceremony, Javadekar revealed that being an education minister he daily receives requests to attend convocations but since there are over 800 universities in India, he has decided to accept only those invitation where something different is happening. “I started with Chitrakoot where a private university caters exclusively to handicapped. Then I went to   followed by an environment university in Delhi. I also visited one Bengaluru and my home Pune University,” he said.
 
 Expressing his dislike for the traditional academic dress of gown and cap worn during convocations, he said it looked good in photograph but we must stop this practice given to us by the British. “We have designer kurtas. Next time I would like to come in dhoti and kurta for the ceremony,” he said, again drawing loud cheers from the audience.
 
 On the importance of languages, Javadekar again referred to the British era. “Even the poorest of poor today want to enrol his kid in English medium school. The poor too thinks the only English is good. We need to bring people out of this mindset. We are not against any language but we want Indian languages must not be forgotten. The Modi government wants to revive Indian languages. I keep telling that read Shakspeare but also read Kalidas.” 
 
