MUMBAI: Harilal bends double to clear a patch of weed before he can start sowing. The skies open up and he pulls a plastic sheet over his head, wondering if he will be working at a petrol pump by this time next year. This isn't a story of urbanisation but of a murder convict being given a shot at reintegration into society.

 Harilal (name changed) is among a bunch of   who have been farming at  . If a proposal made by the   is accepted by the state government, eight of them could be working as attendants at a petrol pump and car washing centre to be set up in the open prison premises. Prison authorities have written to government-owned oil companies for information about requirements for setting up fuel dispensing units. The open prison at Thane, spread across 20 acres, began operating three years ago. It is the only open prison in Mumbai metropolitan region where convicts can work with no boundary walls. The selection process and eligibility criteria are carefully laid down to choose only the best cases fit for transfer to an open prison. For instance, a committee looks at a con vict's behaviour inside the prison and whether at least a third of his sentence has be en completed. For every ye ar spent in the open prison, the convict get a remission of 13 months in his sentence. But if he is caught fleeing, he would be sent back to the prison and lose his privileges.
 
 At Thane's open prison, the largely grey-haired bunch of convicts cultivate land under the watchful eye of an instructor and prison guards.The produce is sold to other prisons. Between April 2016 and March 2017, the Thane facility earned a revenue of Rs 13.4 lakh from the sale of farm produce. “The group of convicts is involved in every stage of production--from sowing to reaping. We have a tractor and 18 cattle. All kinds of vegetables are grown: tomatoes, brinjals, lady's finger and leafy vegetables like spinach. But during monsoon, we only grow rice,“ the instructor told TOI. After the day's work is over, the convicts return to their barracks within the prison.
 
 There are some patches of land that are not under cultivation. It is on one such patch that the authorities plan to instal two fuel units and operate a petrol pump. “Motorists riding on the stretch from Thane central jail to Rabodi could re fuel their vehicles here. The cash collection will be handled by prison guards. Two convicts would operate a fuel-dispensing unit each and six others would work at an adjacent car wash centre--if things go as per plan,“ said Nitin Vayachal, superintendent, Thane prison. This would be the first time the convicts would interact with the public while still in incarceration; so far their interaction was limited to jail staff.
 
 “Open prisons are a good innovation to decongest prisons and facilitate rehabilitation process while the prisoner is still serving a sentence.A step further is open colonies where the prisoner stays in quarters with his family , goes out to farm and sells the produce on his own. He has to be back by a particular time, else it would be regarded as an escape.Prisons in Sangli, Jaipur, etc, have open colonies,“ said Dr Vijay Raghavan, professor, Centre for Criminology and Justice, TISS. Open prisons are only available for prisoners who have been awarded a life sentence or a very long term. “As to whether society would accept a convict working in their midst, it would depend on the nature of offence committed.Where a murder was a result of circumstances such as land dispute or family dispute and the convict admits he did it in the heat of the moment, it won't attract the same stigma as a case of rape would,“ added Dr Raghavan.
 
 
 
 
 The main objective of the penal system being reformation, it is praiseworthy that Thane prison has a plan to ease the shift for convicts after a life of incarceration. The big challenge of the justice system is to prevent an individual from sliding back into a life of crime after a jail term. Criminal recidivism is as high as 60% even in developed countries.Teaching new skills is one way to stem the tide.
 
