MUMBAI: Bombay House’s fourth floor, home to the chairman of Tata Sons, is being restored to its traditional glory of the 1980s when JRD Tata and his successor   occupied the corner office of the $103-billion conglomerate that chronicles India’s journey into industrial adulthood.
 
  The renovation at the 93-year-old building, with an understated stone façade reminiscent of colonial Bombay, coincides with the February 21 inauguration of new chairman  .
  
  The chairman’s office will get a new permanent occupant about four months after   lost the confidence of majority board members, many of whom viewed his tenure as one that witnessed deviations from the values defining the  .
  
  
 
  
  Mistry had changed the complete layout of the corner office of Ratan Tata to accommodate the newly inducted members of the Group Executive Council, the think tank that helped the chairman with   decisions.
  
  Madhu Kannan, a former chief executive officer of the Bombay Stock Exchange, Nirmalya Kumar, professor at London School of Economics, and Harish Bhat, a Tata Group veteran, had shared the space.
  
  The four-storied Bombay House was built by British architect George Wittet after the Tata Group marked India’s entry into modern industry by building a steel plant and a waterfront hotel that predated the Gateway of India. Bombay House, whose interiors have remained almost unchanged for many decades, was the setting where the idea of India’s first airline was born.
  
  Executives sitting at Bombay House founded and nurtured a company that would later become India’s most valuable –   ( ) – and conceptualised the Corus acquisition, a record for a South Asian company.
  
  For the renovation starting soon, the Tata Group has also hired an architect to support an internal team. “These are all internal matters of the group,’’ a Tata Sons spokesperson told  . A spokesperson for Mistry declined to comment.
  
  As vice-chairman and an understudy to Ratan Tata, Mistry had worked from the office of former Tata Sons board member JJ Irani for a year. Even after his elevation as chairman when Rata Tata retired at 75 in December 2012, Mistry continued to use the same office.
  
  When Ratan Tata became interim chairman on October 24, 2016, he used the office on the west wing of the building for his business meetings.
  
  Chandrasekaran, known popularly as Chandra, will move to Bombay House from the TCS office down the road in Mumbai’s Fort area. He will operate temporarily from the office occupied by former Tata Sons director R Gopalakrishnan, who retired from the board in 2015. Chandrasekaran will finally settle in the office occupied by Ratan Tata when the renovation is over.
  
  After Ratan Tata occupied the corner office in 1991, he retained the set-up and décor left by his predecessor, JRD Tata, for several years. Later, the furniture, JRD's table, armchair, and office stationery were moved to Pune, where a replica of his office has been set up at Tata Central   building.
  
  Bombay House is owned by group entity Associated Building Company, which earns rents from companies that have offices within the premises.
  
  TIRUPATI VISIT
  Meanwhile, Tata Sons Chairmandesignate N Chandrasekaran on Friday offered prayers at the famous hill shrine of Lord Venkateswara.
  
  Though a frequent visitor to the hill temple in his capacity as the CEO of   Services, this was his maiden visit to the shrine after being appointed as the Chairman of Tata Sons temple sources said.
  
  After offering worship at the shrine along with his wife, Chandrasekran was honoured with sacred silk cloth and prasadams by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams Executive Officer D Sambasiva Rao while the priests bestowed blessings on him. 
