MUMBAI: The Mukesh Ambani promoter group, which owns a near-majority stake in  , plans to shrink the number of firms owning   of India’s second-most valuable company through an internal sale to other holding companies.
 
  Eight promoter group companies of RIL will acquire around 119 crore shares, or 36.70%, from 15 other promoter group companies in an inter se transfer for Rs 1.3 lakh crore, promoters of the company told the stock exchanges on Thursday. The transaction will be at Rs 1,100.78 a share, a discount of 11% to Thursday’s closing price of Rs 1,233.25. The sale will not affect Ambani's overall holding in RIL.
  
  "The promoter group entities of RIL propose to restructure their   in RIL by inter se transfer of shares among the promoter group entities and have made the necessary disclosures in this regard today. The proposed inter se transfers will not result in any change in promoter group shareholding in RIL," a spokesperson from RIL's promoter group said in a statement.
  
  
 
  
  The Ambani family owns 45.15% in RIL, India's second-most valuable company, with a market cap of over Rs 4 lakh crore.
  
  Inter se transfer refers to sale of shares between firms owned by the same promoter group. Many promoter families with widely dispersed shareholding in key companies have found it easier to simplify their holding structure through such transfers as they do not attract the takeover code if the pricing is within a particular band prescribed by the capital markets regulator.
  
  The Ambani promoter group did not offer reasons for the transfer. Corporate lawyers with expertise in such transactions said that the reasons could include, among other things, consolidation to reduce administrative compliance. “As such long-term capital gains tax on transfer of listed shares is exempt, hence inter se transfer of shares among promoter entities are undertaken for commercial considerations,” Kumarmanglam Vijay, Tax Partner at J Sagar Associates, told ET.
  
  Stock exchange information shows that the 45.15% stake in RIL is held through 58 companies.
  
  "Inter se transfer between promoters are exempt from making an open offer subject to certain conditions, including a ceiling on the traded price. The ceiling is 125% of the recent market price," said Sandeep Parekh, founder, Finsec Law Advisors.
  
  Mukesh Ambani, chairman and managing director of RIL, and his wife and board member Nita Ambani hold 0.11% in their individual capacities. Their stakeholding along with that held individually by family members is not a part of the transaction.
  
  Reliance Industries' market capitalisation rose 15%, or Rs 52,000 crore, to cross Rs 4 lakh crore after February 21, when the company announced that its telecom venture had secured 100 million customers and was on the path to profitability.
  
  Reliance Jio, which is seen by the street as the key driver for shares of the conglomerate currently, has aggressively priced its services.
  
  "Jio's strategy remains centred on unleashing its capacity advantage and building consumer habits for high data consumption. Jio may also offer a much higher recharge commission vs industry to push for high subscriber base," CLSA said in a report.
  
  The promoter group entities acquiring the stake are Devarshi Commercials LLP, Karuna Commercials LLP, Srichakra Commercials LLP, Svar Enterprises LLP, Vasuprada Enterprises LLP, Shreeji Comtrade LLP, and Shrikrishna Tradecom LLP. 
