KOCHI: The new   of Kochi envisages key changes in zones and gives stress on retaining wetlands in the city and suburbs. The changes in the zones will take into account of the mega projects being carried out in the city and surrounding areas.

 Though the town planning department had prepared the draft master plan in 2015, it had to be revised in the wake of introduction of the new Town and Country Planning Act in 2016. 
 
 The revised draft can be notified only after the government approves the joint planning committee ( ), which is mandatory as per the new Act. 
 
 “It is up to the   to take the initiative to constitute JPC,” sources with town planning department said. 
 
 Corporation officials said that the council has given its nod. But authorities are yet to send the plan to the government for its approval.
 
 “Once the government gives its nod for JPC -- where representatives of local bodies included in urban agglomeration are members -- we can publish the draft master plan. Then, the public can submit suggestions and complaints. After making necessary changes, we will publish the master plan,” sources with the town planning department said.
 
 Many areas in   will come under industrial zone. 
 
 “A city can’t avoid industrial zones. Kalamassery and Eloor had been industrial areas for years. So, there is nothing wrong in marking these areas as industrial zones. At the same time, residences would be allotted in the area and those living in the area can continue there,” sources said. 
 
 Certain areas in Ambalamugal where   expansion project is getting underway has also been marked as industrial zones. 
 
 “The master plan will also earmark certain areas for the development of IT projects. The area attached to SmartCity and Infopark will be set aside for the purpose,” sources said.
 
 Another important aspect is that many areas in the city may come under wetland area. 
 
 “Though many projects, including commercial and residential, have come up in wetland area over the years, all such areas can’t be earmarked as residential zones. All constructions that came up on wetlands after the Kerala Conservation of Paddy Land Wetland Act, 2008, will be treated as wetlands,” sources said. 
 
 Provisions for transfer of development rights (TDR) also will be included in the master plan. 
 
 As per the TDR, those handing over their land holdings for development projects will get certain percentage of floor area ratio (FAR) which can be used or sold to others while constructing buildings in other areas.
 
