MUMBAI:   will now have an opportunity to get trained under some top   practising at different hospitals in the state. The   of these doctors in  , which are not part of the regular curriculum, will be made available to post-graduate doctors in the form of a year-long fellowship.

 At least 15 doctors have agreed to train four to five young doctors annually, and also devise curricula based on their unique skill sets. The fellowship course, an initiative by Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS), will be implemented with help from doctors in the state this year and will be taken to the national level by roping in top doctors from other states too. The move, aimed at creating more specialists in the state, will be spearheaded by the university vice-chancellor Dilip Mhaisekar.
 
 Registrar of MUHS, KD Chavan, said that the state plans to offer up to 15 such specialized fellowship courses. “There are emerging fields in medical science which are not covered in the regular curriculum. Doctors who have agreed to work with the government have their own unique skill sets and are renowned in their area of practice. We would like to provide this expertise to our students,“ said Chavan, adding that the university wants to start the programme this year. The fellowship programme will be offered to post-graduate students at reasonable fees from August 1 this year. Students are likely to be selected on the basis of an entrance test conducted by MUHS. Colleges affiliated to MUHS, keen to offer these courses independently , can apply by February 20.
 
 Dr Ramakanta Panda, cardiovascular thoracic surgeon and vice-chairman of Asian Heart Institute, said, “Dr Devi Shetty [ cardiac surgeon] and I have done this kind of curriculum work together earlier too.Considering the high disparity between ideal and existing doctor-to-patient ratios in India, I'd like to applaud the new fellowship course planned by MUHS.Most senior doctors of my time would like to be part of this.“
 
 Dr Abhay Bang, social acti vist and researcher working in community health centre in Gadchiroli, said, “The greatest education in the world is watching the masters at work. Students have a lot of theoretical knowledge, but in practicals their knowledge is limited. We hope young doctors, who want to work in rural health care sector but do not have expertise, to benefit from this fellowship.“
 
 Dr Aparna Hegde, an expert in urogynaecology, who was approached by the state, said there are hardly any fellowships in India in the field. “I intend to create one that will follow internationally set guidelines. The International Association of Urogynaecology is helping me. I'm interested in creating a three-year fellowship with research and rural posting,“ said Hegde.
 
