THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A big hoarding with bold, white letters imprinted against a black backdrop is seen under a peepal tree at the entrance of Puttingal temple. It announces a prayer meeting on Monday in memory of those who were killed in the fireworks tragedy on the same day a year ago.

 Behind the hoarding, a vast expanse of land stretches around the temple. Driving instructors’ line up their candidates in the shade of trees, preparing them for the licence test. Cows graze near the compound where grass has grown over concrete chunks from which steel rods protrude ominously. A year later, life has slowly returned to Puttingal, but for some it just slipped away that very day.
 
 Jayasree, a retired panchayat assistant secretary, has been frantically shuttling between hospital and her modest home with her 15-year-old daughter for a year. Her daughter, Vishnupriya, slipped into depression right after she saw human bodies being flung around as the fire raged on April 10 and the air emanated a nauseating mix of blood and smoke.
 
 The next day, she would curl up in fear and stare blankly at her mother. A few weeks later, she would not stop talking. “She became unstable from that day. I have been taking her to one doctor after another hoping to get back my girl. She is now at a hospital for further cure,” said Jayasree, whose husband had died a few years ago.
 
 In between she scrambles to arrange funds to pay the fee for her youngest son, a medical student in China. Vishnupriya couldn’t write her SSLC exams this year. “We tried sending her to school, but later it became less frequent and finally we had to stop. I wish that day had never happened in my life,” she said, gently leaning on to the front door with a wide crack in the middle.
 
 A kilometre away from Puttingal, Kishore and Krishna – who had lost their parents in the tragedy – are now living with their grandparents and relatives. Colourful pictures of flowers, butterflies dot their room’s walls, along with a framed photo of their parents Bency and Girija in a small house. A black chalk scribbling ‘Ammayum Achanum’ stands out adjacent to the bright red rose on the wall. Krishna is expecting good marks for her Class X exam.
 
 “She wants to do the MLT course. We are doing whatever we can to help them realize their dreams,” says Suchitha, their aunt. Bency and Girija had put up a tea stall at the festival ground hoping that they could raise some money to pay off a bit of their housing loan that stood at Rs 8 lakh.
 
 “They expected some good business and dreamt of lessening the debt. They had worked really hard for their kids and now these children have lost their biggest assets,” said Haridas, their grandfather.
 
 All of them, who were on the temple premises, had returned home minutes before the tragedy. Bency had sent Kishore to fetch some water when the tea stall – which stood close to the cracker house – went up in flames. “When we reached the spot, it was pitch dark. All we had was the phone’s flashlight and I ran around screaming their names. Somebody told us everyone was dead. We lost hope, but God left these kids for us,” said Suchitha.
 
 Former ward councillor   said that people have started to move on. “We had a horrible time trying to get over what we went through. Many, who sustained injuries, were left immobile. We have been trying to give them hope and arrange whatever financial assistance we can,” said Kumar.
 
