BENGALURU: In a country that has 22 official languages, and over 500 spoken dialects, there's a fair chance of movies made in rare languages getting lost. The Unsung Incredible India section in Biffes chooses to mend that disparity. 

  In a session held on Monday, filmmakers who've made films in languages as rare as Khasi, Banjara, Rajbangshi and Sikkimese spoke about the need to make movies in these disappearing languages, and the difficulties they faced in distributing and marketing these films. 
 
 Giving an insight into the problems he faced while showing his films in Meghalaya, a state that had merely three theatres, Pradip Kurbah, who directed the National Award-winning film Onaatah: Daughter of the Earth said, "Bollywood offers me competition, and so I have to practically check the calendar to see when they don't have any big releases. The only time that happens is during the IPL season, and so I time my movies release accordingly." 
 
 In a state with very few options for movie watching, Kurbah revealed that the only solution to make sure that people watched his film was to literally take it to them. "I have a mobile screening van that I take to the villages. And in certain places that are inaccessible by road, I walk with the print," he said. For  , the director of the award-winning film, Sonar Baran Pakhi, a movie made in Rajbangshi, a dialect spoken in Assam, film festivals were an essential for niche films because compared to going for a "commercial release where few people would come and watch it because of lack of awareness, film festivals ensure they reach an aware audience." 
 
 On the choice of subjects, director Hemanth Kumar, the maker of   said that "while films dealing with serious issues like rape or farmers suicides needed to be made, what was more important was for filmmakers to provide solutions in the films, as well." 
 
  Monday also saw the release of the book, Guru Dutt: Mooru Ankagala Duranta Nataka. The book is the Kannada translation of  's English book, Guru Dutt : A tragedy of three acts. The book release was presided by H N Narahari Rao, S V   (chairman, Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy). 
 
