PUNE: Not only from  ,   seems to have run out of fashion too, since demonetisation was announced. With little cash at their disposal, people are trying out  , birthdays,   and retirement functions. 

 Besides transferring the money online, friends and relatives are chipping in for the shagun too. Portals and e-wallets offering such services have registered a surge in customers opting for digital shagun since November 8.
 
 Sukesh Ganda, co-founder of Chip N Gift-a website providing online alternatives to gift 'shagun'- said, "Since demonetisation, we have seen a 10-fold rise in online transactions on our site. The gift registries are held with reliable bankers and payment gateways."
 
 Ganda said that over the past month, they had witnessed a 55% increase in their new customer base. "The cash crunch has led many to pool in money online to be transferred directly to the wedded couples' accounts," said Ganda.
 
 Paytm had launched 'Digital Shaguns' in August this year as a way to express love to friends and family. Now, the company expects a growth in figures of digital shaguns to touch triple digits. "Customers can buy these online from the Paytm 'gift card store' and get them delivered instantly as an e-mail. We have sold over 1 lakh digital shaguns in the last couple of weeks. We have also noted a surge in payment transactions from merchants in the wedding industry," said Kiran Vasireddy, senior vice president, Paytm.
 
 Working professional Apurva Raikar had her baby shower on November 20 this year and that's when her guests suddenly began asking for her bank account details. Most of them transferred the shagun money online. "I did not receive many gifts or much liquid cash at the baby shower. Close to 40 or 50 relatives directly did an NEFT transfer to me as 'shagun'," said Raikar.
 
 Bhoomi Daftry, a working professional in the event industry, recently had her friend's wedding, and was worried about the shagun. "Someone suggested transferring the money online to the bride's bank account and that is what I did," said Daftry.
 
 Entrepreneur Sukesh Singh had to attend a close friend's wedding on December 17. "Around seven of us friends, decided to transfer the money to the couple online. We realized that online shaguns were much better and convenient than handing out cash," he said.
 
 BPO employee Firaz Shaikh along with 10 other friends of chipped in Rs 700 each for the naming ceremony of his friend's child. "Digital shaguns have come as a boon amidst the cash crunch in the festive season," Shaikh said. 
 
 
