Nagpur: There was a time when Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would not get Muslim candidates for municipal corporation elections, despite intensive search. In fact, this was the case even five years ago before the last NMC elections. This time, people from Muslim community have lined up for BJP tickets for the upcoming Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) elections. As part of the process to select the candidates, BJP had invited nomination forms from party leaders and members. BJP received 3,010 nomination forms. BJP’s 21-member parliamentary board conducted interviews of those submitted the forms. A total of 3,002 applicants appeared for the interviews between January 6 and 14. As per BJP’s data, 65 of these are Muslims. Last time, the number was less than 15. This year’s list of 65 includes Jaitunbi Ashfaque Ansari, BJP’s corporator from Mominpura. Jaitunbi is the second BJP Muslim corporator from the city and was made deputy mayor for first 15 months in the just-concluded tenure of five years at the NMC. She was the first from BJP to win from Muslim-dominated Mominpura ward in Central Nagpur. In 2012 NMC elections, BJP had fielded two Muslim candidates. Lala Qureshi was the other candidate who contested from Mahendra Nagar ward in North Nagpur and got defeated. In the 2007 NMC elections, BJP had only one candidate, Abdul Majid Shola, who won from Hasanbagh in East Nagpur and became first Muslim corporator of the party. He, too, went on to become deputy mayor. BJP’s city unit does not figures about the number of Muslim members among its party cadre. It has a membership of 5.90 lakh in the city. Jaitunbi’s husband Ashfaque told TOI that Muslims voted for Congress for 60 years and but started to realize their importance in BJP as well. “It’s very important for a community to be in the ruling party for development of its people. BJP, under the leadership of union minister Nitin Gadkari, is doing well in the city. This is also a reason behind Muslim people looking towards BJP,” he said. Ashfaque was a Janata Dal leader and sought Congress ticket in 2007 NMC elections. However, he was not given Congress ticket. Since then, Ashfaque has been with BJP. BJP in-charge for NMC elections, MLC Anil Sole, said Muslims and also Ambedkarites were realizing that all having equal importance and opportunity in BJP and scenario not like the picture intentionally shown by Congress to the people. “Interviews witnessed great numbers and also good faces. Party will selected candidates on elective merit basis and hopeful of securing over 100 seats,” he said. Indian Union Muslim League city president Shamim Sadique said Muslims asking for BJP tickets have no hold in the community. “BJP also started to keep Muslim faces in the elections so it is giving them tickets. But Muslim people do not wholeheartedly support BJP. Now some might be asking for BJP’s ticket as it is the ruling party,” he said. However, it will be a big challenge for the BJP as Muslims can contest only on OBC and open seats.