BENGALURU: Angered over his car being stopped at the toll booth on the   highway, a   (Tumakuru Rural) B   reportedly stormed into the operator's office and assaulted the manager. A CCTV clip of the assault went viral on Tuesday.

 This comes as a major embarrassment to the BJP which has been attacking the ruling Congress for its alleged failure to maintain law and order. In the video, Gowda is seen entering the toll booth office at   along with his supporters on Friday and slapping manager Mallikarjun.
 
 According to the staff, the MLA was miffed over the delay in allowing his car to pass through the toll plaza. Gowda's office staff however maintained that he only warned the manager against causing undue delay whenever his vehicle passed through the toll booth. His office staff denied any attack or ransacking of the booth.
 
 In an interesting turn of events, the toll manager denied being as saulted by the MLA. Barely an hour after the CCTV clip was leaked to the media, Mallikarjun said: “The MLA did not attack me; he is my friend. We know each other for several years. He was only wishing me, I would have lodged a police complaint, had he attacked me.“
 
 However, Mallikarjun blamed the drivers of VIPs for creating confusion at toll booths. “There is a lane dedicated for VIPs at toll plazas. But most of the time, the drivers do not drive on the fast-track lane and instead land up in the common lane. When the VIPs question the drivers, the latter blame the toll booth staff for the delay,“ he added.
 
 In fact, politicians in Karnataka have been complaining against the lack of exclusive lanes for VIPs and ambulances for sometime now.The issue had come up for discussion during the last legislature session and the government had instructed all toll booth operators to maintain separate lanes for VIPs and ambulances.
 
 'Political conspiracy'
 
 MLA Suresh Gowda said; “This is a political conspiracy. The fast-track lane that was supposed to be reserved for ambulances was blocked, and I had to go in to the toll office and warn them against allowing other vehicles in the lane. What if an ambulance with a patient is forced to slow down at the toll booth.“ He denied assaulting the toll booth manager.“Mallkarjun himself said he's my friend,“ Gowda said.
 
