' ''s promotions had just about begun when the film's casting director   triggered a debate in B-Town with his comment that he had to take  's looks into consideration while casting other actors in the film. Nawaz called out the comment on Twitter on Monday, and on Thursday, the film's director   told us that the comment was completely uncalled for. "It is a silly idiotic statement the casting director has made. It is ridiculous to cast an actor based on his skin colour or any such bias. The final casting of the film has gone through me and each actor was chosen because they suited the character, not because of their looks. The casting for the film was done long back, his job is over, he is not involved with the film anymore."

  
  Nawazuddin Siddiqui in 'Babumoshai Bandookbaaz'
 
 
  Even though Nawaz's tweet got a lot of attention, Kushan says there is no issue between him and his film's lead actor, nor will the film be affected by this incident. "I speak to Nawaz every day, there are no hard feelings. This issue doesn't involve me. I don't think this will affect the film either. People will like the film for its content. No controversy can make or break a film."
 
  Kushan also tells us why Nawaz is the only and the perfect choice for the film. "He plays a small-time contract killer, a common man who just happens to be a contract killer. Killing is his job, it's not who he is. There is no anger or emotion." A bit like 'Kahaani's Bob Biswas? "Not exactly.   was based in a city, this is a very desi character who has his own quirks and a fun side to him. In a scene where he has to murder someone and there is another person present, he says, 'Tumhe nahi maaroonga, ek hi ka paisa mila hai. Main free mein nahi maarta.' Nawaz is completely identifiable in the role of this rustic common man with a fun side to him."
 
  
  
 
  Just the way Kushan couldn't think of any other actor in this role, he says the film's setting is unique to it too. The film has been extensively shot in UP. "The landscape of UP is dry, the language is very desi. Such a character could have been conceptualised only in this area. We shot in a lot of places around Lucknow. One of them is Malihabad, the largest exporter of mangoes. We also shot in Nawaz's hometown, Budhana, and in a small village called Basti. We also got on a train from Lucknow to Delhi and we used to get off at stations in between and shoot."
 
 
 
