SAMBALPUR: In the  , it is perhaps the small choices that lead to them that make human tragedies even more flummoxing.

 A small choice certainly was behind 32-year-old   of taking the   to his uncle's house in Bhubaneswar, instead of his usual bus. In a wicked twist of fate, Lal had chosen to travel by train to avoid the hazards of long-distance road travel.
 
 "  have become a regular phenomenon, so I decided to opt for a safer mode of travelling to the capital city and got a train ticket this time. The journey turned out to be a nightmarish experience, and one that I will never forget all my life," said Lal.
 
 Travelling in coach S8 of the train, Lal was about to go to sleep when he heard the explosion that spelled disaster. "The train began to swing precariously. Before I could ascertain what was happening, I was on the floor of the compartment. I realised that the train could have been derailed. I looked all around me in the darkness. I finally realised that our coach was hanging on to a stationary goods train which was on the adjacent track," said Ajit.
 
 Lal was one of the very few who were unharmed in the coach. "I was fortunate in escaping without any injury. I saw many people lying injured with terrible wounds. At least five people from my coach itself had died and the sight was as gory as it was shocking. When I finally managed to come out of the coach, I saw smoke all around. The darkness was solid and nothing was visible for a few minutes," he recounted.
 
 "After blacking out for what I think is a few minutes, I saw some people rushing towards the train. It was then that it occurred to me that the train had met with a terrible accident. Villagers and RPF personnel had, by then, begun helping us," said Ajit.
 
 When the special train for accident victims reached Sambalpur,   was still shivering. The S5 passenger of the derailed Bhubaneswar-bound train, was on his way to the capital city for a medical check up and was in a state of shock after learning that 39 passengers of the train had lost their lives.
 
 "I have never experienced death so closely. This is a newfound life," said Sethi.
 
