CHENNAI: Chief minister  's recent suggestion for the construction industry to shift to M-sand ( ) as an alternate to river sand has brought the focus back on the   that the realty sector began using a few years ago. The demand for it had shot up due to shortage of river sand after several quarries in Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Vellore districts were shut due to a variety of issues such as bans by the district administration, protests by locals over illegal mining and court directives. 

 M-sand is the only available alternative to river sand at present and is helping the realty sector tide over the crisis they were in. "Its quality matches sand quarried from river beds. Manufactured sand is available in various micron levels to suit different construction projects," said S Esakkinathan, president (south) Flat Promoters Association Chennai, who started using M-sand in the wake of fluctuation in the rates of river sand a year ago. "In fact, builders did not consider M-sand earlier as its price was twice that of river sand. But the depleting natural sand and its escalating rates have pushed the demand for the artificial alternative," he added. Now one cubic metre of M-sand is sold at '60, while the same quantity of river sand is marketed at '100. 
 
 Since sand constitutes nearly 40% of construction material used for any building, quality is crucial to the foundation of any structure. Though developers are using M-sand for concreting and block work in massive housing projects, there are issues at certain stages of the construction process. 
 
 "M-sand has stability similar to river sand but developers have come across issues with plastering," said Suresh Krishn, president, Chennai chapter of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai). Prakash Challa, a leading developer, agrees that issues in plastering is a cause of concern, though M-sand is becoming popular in Telangana, for use in housing projects. "Reputed builders will not depend on M-sand to carry out plastering as it can compromise on quality," he said.
 
 Use of M-sand at present is still limited if one goes by the demand for it in Chennai and its suburbs. While the city and peripheries receive around 2,500 loads of river sand every day, the procurement of M-sand is just 100 loads. 
 
 According to Tamil Nadu State Sand Lorry Owner's Federation president S Yuvaraj, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh have shifted to M-sand. "The alternate for river sand is manufactured from about 100 stone quarries spread across Tamil Nadu. An order issued by the state government states that 30% of M-sand can be used in public works department projects," he added. 
 
