NEW DELHI: A day after losing power in Bihar and on the day he appeared in a Jharkhand court in a fodder scam case,   chief   was booked under the Prevention of   Act (PMLA) by the   and may have to make regular trips to Delhi for questioning along with wife Rabri and son  .

 The booking comes in the case in which two prime hotels owned by the railways were transferred to a private company, allegedly benefiting the accused during Lalu’s tenure as rail minister. 
 
 Also named along with Lalu and kin are Sarla Gupta, wife of his long-time friend and former Union minister Prem Chand Gupta. The   had registered an FIR in this case and raided at least 12 locations, including Lalu’s residence in Patna, in the first week of this month. 
 
 The ED case is based on the CBI FIR which has also accused former IRCTC managing director P K Goel and the Kochhar brothers — Vijay and Vinay —who were directors of Sujata Hotels which bagged the contract for prime railway properties in Puri and Ranchi.
 
 With this case, half of Lalu’s family is facing ED probe. His eldest daughter Misha Bharati, a Rajya Sabha MP, and son-in-law Shailesh were subjected to day-long questioning at the ED’s Delhi office a few weeks ago soon after the agency searched three farmhouses in Delhi allegedly owned by them through front entities (benami companies) and shell companies.
 
 Misha and Shailesh have also been questioned by the income tax department in connection with several benami properties allegedly linked to them. 
 
 The department has provisionally attached more than half-a-dozen properties in Delhi and Patna allegedly belonging to Lalu’s family members worth over Rs 170 crore.
 
 The ED has arrested Misha’s Delhi-based chartered accountant who had provided “accommodation entries” and allegedly helped her launder money. “The CA, Rajesh Agrawal, has been associated with some transactions involving Mishail Packers and Printers Pvt Ltd which owns a farmhouse in Palam Vihar,” the ED had said. 
 
 A senior officer said Misha and her husband were the alleged beneficiaries of the property. Mishail Packers was registered at Lalu’s official Delhi bungalow.
 
 In June, the I-T department had issued provisional attachment orders under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act and named Rabri and her three daughters — Misha, Chanda Yadav and Rohini Yadav — besides son Tejashwi and son-in-law Shailesh as beneficial owners of these properties.
 
