CHENNAI: Four people, including a woman who posed as a   official, held a one-and-half-year-old boy at knife point and made away with 45 sovereigns of gold jewellery and 3.5 kilograms of silver from a house at   in Madavaram on Saturday.

 Police said Sandhya, 26, was at her house with her son Nithilesh and a relative Nagabushanam, 65, when a woman posing as a TNEB staff approached her. The woman asked Sandhya to bring the EB card for verification. Sandhya, who took the bait, left the door open and went inside to bring the card. Soon three middle-aged men joined the woman. Before Sandhya could question them, they grabbed Nithilesh who was playing in the hall. They held him at knife-point and asked Sandhya to hand over the valuables. Police said when Sandhya told the robbers that her husband Damodharan, who was away at work in Parry’s, had taken away keys of the safe with him, they threatened to kill the child. Nagabushanam, bedridden with a broken leg, could not intervene either. 
 
 Scared, Sandhya led the gang to the almirah. While the woman stood holding the child at knife-point, the three men packed the valuables. They also snatched the jewellery Sandhya was wearing. Although held at knife point, Nithilesh did not raise any alarm, police said.
 
 After packing the jewellery, the gang fled locking the main door from outside. After they left, Sandhya raised an alarm banging on the door repeatedly. Alerted, neighbours came to her rescue and opened the door.
 
 After Sandhya lodged a complaint with the Madavaram police station, a team reached her house with a sniffer dog. Police said all the four people were wearing gloves to ensure that they did not leave behind any fingerprints. Police collected identification details from Sandhya and have launched a hunt for the four suspects who escaped on two motorbikes.
 
 “We are trying to get CCTV footage from the area which could help us in establishing the identity of the suspects. From the modus operandi, it appears that this is the handiwork of the habitual offenders,” said a senior police officer.
 
