CHANDIGARH: Alleging a violation of constitutional provisions, the appointments of Neeta Khera and   Goyal as members of   (HPSC) were challenged before the Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday.

 The petitioners, Hisar residents   and Vikender Malik, have contended that half of the members of HPSC should be persons who have held office for at least 10 years either under the Centre or the state government. They claimed that at present in the HPSC, only two were officials and remaining five were non-officials.
 
 The counsel for the petitioners, Sandeep Goyat, sought directions of the high court to set aside their appointments for violations of Article 316 of the Constitution.
 
 Goyat also referred   case in which the appointment of Harish Rai Dhanda as the chairman of   (PPSC) was set aside by high court.
 
 During the hearing, Justice M M S Bedi asked the counsel for the petitioners to place on record more material and case law before the court, informing if the HC can entertain such petitions.
 
 Seeking the counsel’s assistance on the query made by the bench, the court adjourned the case for April 18 for further hearing.
 
 Both Khera, a former municipal councillor from Ambala, and Jai Bhagwan Goyal, a close confidant of Union minister Birender Singh, were appointed as HPSC members in August 2016.
 
 Petitioners have sought directions for quashing the selection of Khera and Goyal for being made in contravention to Article 316 of the Constitution, which specifically provides that “half of the members of every public service commission shall be persons who, at the date of their respective appointments, have held an office under the central or state government for at least 10 years.”
 
 It was further stated that earlier five persons, including chairperson and four members, were already appointed and with the appointment of Khera and Goyal, it was clear that there had not been a meaningful and effective consultative/deliberative process in regard thereto rather their selection has been made only because of political affiliation.
 
