The Times, They are a-Changing’ alright. Especially so in the Kannada film industry wherein unassuming storylines, minus its share of popular stars, are rocking the scene like never before. Right in the midst of it all is Suni’s  , originally a thriller but also has a ‘cute’ love track stars newbie  , alongside the now critically acclaimed actress  .
 Rishi, an engineer by profession, indulged in a bit of theatre while he was still a student at the JCE Mysuru. “It took me a while to analyse if I was enjoying what I was doing on stage. And soon enough, there were offers pouring in from the television industry. I took up one role on the small screen with Anuroopa. I met   through my sister Nethra, who is an RJ. Suni and I were to begin working together on another film which did not take off. Operation Alamelamma was originally meant to be a short film, which we finally converted into a full-fledged film,” he tells us.
  The debutant tells us that the character he plays is nothing like you might have heard of before. “In fact, I had never come across the concept of a vegetable auctioneer before this. Long before we started shooting, Suni took me to a vegetable market near Yeshwathpur at 4.30 am. This is the time at the market when vegetable prices are decided for the day. There is so much energy in the auctioning that the experience of being there and witnessing it all is one that I will cherish forever. I play the role of a vegetable auctioneer in this film,” Rishi tells us.
  While Rishi has been skeptical of the kind of attention a film with a newcomer in the lead role would gather, he tells us that he has been the most surprised with the response so far. “I did hope for it, but I never expected the kind of curiosity this film has generated. I was even more surprised when   recognized us from a distance, because he had seen the trailer and had loved it. It is amazing to see one artist complimenting another and also be so vocal about it.”
  Acting by itself has been an interesting journey for Rishi. However, he tells us that films are a lot different from theatre. “With theatre, you are not as focused on the commercial aspect of staging a play. But with films, there is the box office performance that comes into play. I find that being a part of films sort of puts you on an equal platform where there are so many actors. It’s not like being a part of a corporate firm, where you know that after a couple of years of service you will have a certain designation attached to your name. Here, as an actor, you are forced to stay on your toes at all times. A lot depends on how you involve yourself with each project and what comes out of it. With Operation Alamelamma, we have a good team in place, great songs that are already on the top of music charts and a fab distributer in the form of Karthik Gowda of Hombale to back us. I hope that the audience love the film the way we love it ,” says Rishi.
