NAGPUR: Even as ‘Swachh Bharat Abhiyan’ turns three years, railway stations still remain unclean as litter and human excrement can be seen on platforms and tracks. Being mindful, the South East Central Railway (SECR) commissioned a ‘Swachhata Train’ to spread awareness between   and Amgaon stations on Monday.

 About 15 students, cadres of Indian Scout & Guides and Nagarik Suraksha Sadasya, chanted slogans, performed a skit and sang jingles in a bid to spread ‘clean India’ message among the passengers. The   drive marked Gandhi Jayanti.
 
 After the train was flagged off from Itwari, it halted at Kamptee, Tarsa, Bhandara Road, Tirora and Gondia stations where the children spread awareness. 
 
 Divisional railway manager of SECR  , who was present at Itwari said, “The message is better understood when children are spreading it. People tend not to listen to adults when told not to litter. A clean independent India was Mahatma Gandhi’s dream too, and this is an attempt to emulate his sentiment.”
 
 After the tour ended, TOI observed the cleanliness at Gondia station. Paper cups, wafer bags and food items was found lying on the platforms. Some litter was even seen lying outside of dustbins. Stains of pan and garbage was also found on top of the sheds above the platforms, under the foot-over-bridges.
 
 A similar scene was also seen at Nagpur station where passenger footfall is higher compared to Gondia. Agrawal said, “The SECR plans on increasing the number of dustbins at stations under its jurisdiction where they will be kept 50 feet apart on the platforms. But people’s attitude towards cleanliness must change.”
 
 Agrawal said that the pay-and-use toilets are being introduced at SECR stations as maintaining hygiene will become easier. He said, “This way stations can employ persons who will maintain the toilets round the clock.”
 
 The DRM also informed that the deadline to equip all passenger trains with bio-toilets was moved from March 2022 to March 2019 during Suresh Prabhu’s term as union railway minister. But, the SECR will convert all its rakes to bio-toilets by March 2018.
 
