Bhopal: An SUV allegedly driven by a schoolboy went on the rampage in Moti Masjid area of the city on Tuesday morning, ramming seven vehicles and injuring six people. One of the victims, a biker, was dragged about 20m under the SUV but miraculously survived.

 This is the third such incident in Bhopal in four days — first an Uber driver was stabbed to death after a road tiff and then gunshots rang out over a parking scrape.
 
 Witnesses say that the Ford Endeavour (MP04-KG-1100) entered the Sadar Manzil gate at 9.15am and hit a biker first, dragging him along. Then it entered a lane inside Malipura and hit another bike, re-entered Sadar Manzil and rammed five more vehicles. A witness said, “Three schoolboys were in the car. I think they panicked after hitting the motorcyclist.” hit six more vehicles. The SUV stalled after hitting a car near fire station lane and the kids ran away.
 
 Sher Singh Chauhan, whose car was damaged, said, “Some young boys were driving it. They lost control and started hitting vehicles and people. I just bought a new car and it got damaged. Thank god, nobody died.” Malipura resident Shanno Anwar said, “They dragged the motorcyclist and rammed my brother’s bike. They were driving dangerously.”
 
 Ali Asgar, the biker who was first to get hit, is thanking his lucky stars. “I was going to office when I got hit and was dragged for at least 15-20m. I am lucky to be alive.” All the injured were taken to Hamidia Hospital. Among them was a boy, who suffered a fracture.
 
 Samarjeet Singh, brother of SUV owner Agnivesh Singh, said, “The car was parked at the garage at Dashara Maidan for 15 days for repair. We were supposed to take it today but were told by my mechanic that his nephew and his friends took the vehicle and caused an accident.”
 
 Taliyya police station SI Karn Singh said the mechanic’s nephew was behind the wheels, “All three are schoolgoing kids. The mechanic was not in the garage when they took the car. All three are on the run but we will catch them.”
 
 
