PUNE: The   on highways is likely to hit the   ( ) hard with the   likely to lose nearly Rs 2 crore per month --- more than 50 per cent of its total revenue from the sale of liquor.

 The civic body currently earns around Rs 3.5 crore worth of local body tax (LBT) per month from liquor.
 
 LBT was collected between April 2013 and July 2015 and 60,000 traders were registered. On August 1, 2015, the state government abolished the tax partially. Only those traders whose turnover was more than Rs 50 crore were told to pay LBT. Earlier, the tax was levied on those who earned more than Rs 5 lakh per year.
 
 The move reduced LBT’s income drastically. The state government had started charging LBT on sale of liquor from September 2016 to offset the revenue loss. The LBT on liquor had helped the civic body earn Rs 25 crore till the end of 2016-2017.
 
 Civic officials said the state had made changes in the LBT act and given permission to levy LBT on liquor distributors, wine shops and bars. "But this provision is of no use now and the revenue will fall drastically. It will have a huge impact on LBT,” said a senior PMC official.
 
 The Supreme Court had passed an order banning liquor vends within 500 metres of highways on the assumption that the excise year was from April 1 to March 31. Section of   highway, Pune-Solapur Highway, Pune-Ahmednagar Highway, Pune-Satara Road pass through city.
 
 Dynaneshwar Molak, head of the PMC's LBT department, confirmed the likely loss. “We are studying the impact of revenue loss which is likely to be sizeable. The department will lose more than more than 50 % of total revenue -- nearly Rs 2 crore per month,” he told TOI.
 
 As per PMC record, there are 433 tax payers (restro bars, wine shops, distributors) within the civic body's jurisdiction.
 
 The civic body earned around Rs 1,000 crore every year before the partial abolition which reduced the tax collection to around Rs 300 crore after the income limit of Rs 50 crore was set. The revenue was expected to go up by Rs 60 to Rs 70 crore this fiscal.
 
