CHANDIGARH: By bagging top positions in their respective streams, the girls from government schools of Panchkula district feel a step closer to achieving not just their dreams but also dreams of their parents' who made efforts to let them spread their wings. The first wish being that of setting an example for people of their villages to let their daughters study and rise in life. Having already changed mindsets by being an example of  , these girls have also broken notion of having top facilities to score well. All nine toppers in the three streams come from humble backgrounds. While someone's father is a truck driver, someone's is a farmer, a shopkeeper, a clerk and a police official.

 This is not the end for them, but beginning of a new race, they said. While, one of the girls wants to be a CEO, others want to become   officers and lecturers. Arts topper  , whose father is a truck driver said, “I come from a village where people are not advance and don't believe in educating girls. I wish to set an ex ample for them that girls can do better.“ She wants to become an IAS officer.
 
 Commerce topper Sheetal, whose father runs a small store in her village, wants to become a CEO of a big   to prove that girls can reach the top. “I have not heard of many women becoming CEOs,therefore I want to reach their,“ she said.The motive of all however, is the same to give back to the society .Science topper Monika wants to become a teacher and contribute in making education system work well. “I want to become a teacher to be able to give good citizens to the country.“
 
 Rekha, who stood second in arts stream want to become a teacher a too and ensure that schooling facility is available in every village so that parents don't make their kids drop out for lack of transport facility. Daughter of a farmer, Rekha said, “My father could afford to spend Rs 350 on my transport but not all in my village can which is why many children don't go to school.“
 
 Anchal who secured the third place in arts wants to become an IAS officer to be able to give back to society. “My father is an ASI in   Police and he is my role model as he has always been very loyal to his job have this passion to do something for the country. I want to do the same.“
 
