PUNE: The   along the   of   demanded provision to restrict inflow of flood water in their premises on Thursday, a day after flood fear gripped them when irrigation department released water into the river at 22,800 cusecs following heavy rain.

 Viraj Paigude, a resident of the area, said people of the area suffered from possible flooding scare every time water was released during monsoon. Last year, the civic administration had vacated some areas. The situation on Wednesday was almost similar to the last year but things came under control after the water release was reduced in the evening. The issue should be addressed fast, Paigude said.
 
 The officials of the   (PMC) were on round-the-clock vigil in the low lying areas to alert citizens about the water release and possible temporary relocation in case of flooding. Mayor Mukta Tilak, along with PMC officials, visited the spots along the river to take stock of the situation on Wednesday.
 
 Maruti Tupe, another resident, said the civic administration had constructed retaining walls along the river in some areas. A similar wall should be constructed along the low lying areas to prevent water from flowing into residential areas. Safety wall could eliminate the chances of relocation and flooding, Tupe added. According to the estimate, about 3,000 stay in various housing societies in low lying areas prone to flooding.
 
 Local corporators claimed that they were in the process of working out a solution to flooding. Corporator Manjush Nagpure said the proposal for a retaining wall along the river had been placed before the civic administration. But mere construction of the wall would not resolve the issue. The authorities and PMC would have to study the matter considering the latest directives issued by National Green Tribunal, Nagpure said.
 
 The civic administration had to initiate action with the irrigation department to ensure encroachment-free riverbed following an NGT order. A source in PMC said it would be a challenge before the municipal administration because no constructions were allowed within the flood lines.
 
 
