KOLKATA/BIRBHUM: In what may appear as a tit-for-tat for what   has dubbed a “political conspiracy“ against her party , the   has sent a legal notice to Union minister Babul Supriyo based on an FIR lodged by Trinamool general secretary and Karimpur MLA Mahua Moitra.

 In her complaint, Moitra has accused the Union minister and BJP leader of “gestures made to insult the modesty of a woman“ -a non-bailable charge under section 41A of the Criminal Procedure Code. The Trinamool MLA has also recorded a magisterial statement under section 164 of the CrPC to add weight to her charge.
 
 Moitra's modus operandi is similar to the deposition by one of the witnesses against Trina mool's Sudip Bandyopadhyay at Khurdah court in Odisha where he made a confidential statement of taking money from the Rose Valley Group on the instructions of the Trinamool leader. Sources at Lalbazar said on Tuesday that the magisterial statement by Moitra may as well go against Supriyo, who has been asked to come down to Alipore police station on Thursday and face probe.
 
 Babul, on the other hand, has served legal notices on three Trinamool leaders -Moitra and MPs Saugata Roy and Tapas Paul -for spreading falsehoods about PM Narendra Modi and him. Babul has threatened that if the Trina mool leaders ignore his legal notice and refuse to tender an unconditional apology , he will file a Rs 25-crore criminal defamation case in Delhi's Tis Hazari court. The Union minister has already expressed his inability to comply . “I will be out of Kolkata due to my prior commitments at Asansol. I will not be able to make it on January 12,“ the Union minister wrote. The development comes barely a week after Mamata Banerjee had threatened the Centre on January 3 -the day CBI took Sudip Bandyopadhyay in custody . “They (Centre) shouldn't lose sight of the fact that we too can take steps,“ the CM had said.
 
 Mamata on Tuesday added further fuel to the legal battle by alleging that the PM had hatched a criminal conspiracy (against her party). “Since we spoke against demonetisation, BJP has set some agencies to hound us. But I am not bothered. You will vanish but we'll exist,“ she said.
 
 BJP national secretary and Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, retorted calling Mamata a “psychiatric“ patient. Trinamool MPs have sought a Wednesday 2 pm appointment with President Pranab Mukherjee capping their three-day dharna in New Delhi against demonitisation.
 
 Babul's letter, however, may not have any bearing on the FIR lodged against him by Maitra under 509 IPC ­ use of words or gestures intended to insult the modesty of awoman. The police summon to Babul was preceded by a 91 CrPC notice to the television channel which aired the show in which Babul may have treaded the legal fi ne-line for the original video-tapes and an in-camera deposition by Maitra to an Alipore judicial magistrate under 164 CrPC.This, however, is a bailable offence with a maximum one-year prison term and can be compounded only if Maitra agrees.
 
 The FIR, ironically, lodged only a day af ter Trinamool MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay's arrest states that during a TV debate on it -the same day -Babul at precisely 21minute 55 seconds injected Moitra by saying, “Mahua, are you on mahua?“ The FIR was lodged on January 4 with Alipore police.
 
 (With inputs from Someswar Boral)
 
