There are instances when the   record contains conflicting notings. The insured as well as the insurer will rely on what is favourable to each of them. So how will it be decided which   is correct?

 Case Study: Shail Devi (60) was insured for Rs 1 lakh by Sahara India Life  . The policy commenced on January 4, 2010. She expired on December 2010 due to cardio respiratory failure.
 
 Her son Shailender Pandey lodge a death claim, which was repudiated on the grounds that Devi had concealed the fact that she was suffering from diabetes for more than a decade. Pandey filed a complaint before the Vaishali District Forum. The insurance company contested the case. It relied upon the discharge summary of the Heart Hospital at Patna where she expired, where it was recorded that she had a past history to diabetes. Devi's son disputed that his mother ever suffered from diabetes.
 
 The National Commission observed that 60-year-old Devi was admitted with a complaint of chest pain. There “past history” in respect of diabetes was left blank. However, somewhere in the medical record a noting was made that she was suffering from diabetes since past 10 years. The Commission observed that the contrary notings about the past history had resulted in a controversy. 
 
  The Commission went into the record of the pathological tests carried out and the treatment given. It was found that no test were conducted to diagnose diabetes. Also no treatment was given for diabetes. 
 
 By its order of September 13, delivered by Dr S M Kantikar for the bench along with Dr B C Gupta, the Commission confirmed the finding of deficiency in service and confirmed the directions given to settle the claim. In addition, the insurance firm was saddled with further costs of Rs 20,000 payable to Devi’s son. The company was directed to comply with the order within four weeks, else the amount would carry 12% interest for the period of delay.
 
 (The author is a consumer activist and has won the Govt. of India's National Youth Award for Consumer Protection. His email is jehangir.gai.columnist@outlook.in)
 
 
