KOCHI: Police on Tuesday arrested a 22 year-old man for allegedly attempting to kill a   in inebriated condition. The arrested has been identified as Freddy Babu Albert alias Freddy of Elamkulam.

 According to police, the incident related to the case happened at 9 pm on March 29, 2017 in Kathrikadavu.
 
 Albert and his nine other friends, who were consuming alcohol at a bar in Kathrikadavu got violent and engaged in war of words with bar officials and manhandled them. The bar employees warned that they would call police if the gang continued to misbehave with them.
 
 Meanwhile, film producer Subair was standing outside the lodge which is functioning adjacent to the bar. He was speaking over mobile. Suspecting that he was calling police, the accused rushed towards him and hit on his head with a signboard. Subair fell unconscious on the ground due to the impact of the hit. He was taken to hospital by bar employees and his colleagues and regained consciousness after several days.
 
 Police said that the accused got together at the bar to felicitate a friend who works in Bengaluru.Police managed to arrest all the accused after collecting CCTV footage from the bar and details provided by witnesses.
 
 Tripunithura and Palarivattom police had registered cases against Freddy for drug-related crimes and creating ruckus.
 
 
 
 
 Kannamaly police arrested two men who tried to smuggle pepper from a spice exporting firm. The arrested are Shibeesh (37) and Arun (27), who were working as supervisors at the same exporting firm.
 
 Police said the duo was arrested on charges of attempting to smuggle one quintal of pepper from the firm on Monday night. The pepper was found in four sacks in the car of Arun.The vehicle was found in suspicious circumstances near a cemetery in Kumbalangi. When police questioned the duo, they gave contradictory statements. Suspicious over this, police took them to police station and put them under detailed interrogation.
 
 The accused confessed to police that they were smuggling pepper. Shibeesh is an employee with the firm for the last 20 years and Arun joined only two years back. The firm is owned by a Rajasthan native, who gave full freedom to the duo. The accused smuggled pepper after 4.30 pm on Monday when the owner gave key of the firm to them.
 
