MUMBAI: The city experienced first   of the season on Friday evening. Weathermen have predicted similar isolated showers for the next three days.

 The sudden showers, accompanied by gusty winds and thunder, caught Mumbaikars unaware, but most were happy getting soaked in the drizzle. “Around 8pm, there was a drizzle for a very short time. The feeling of first rains felt good,” said Nikhil Desai, who lives in Kings Circle. It drizzled in various parts of the western and eastern suburbs, along with Thane and Navi Mumbai. 
 
 However, Central Railway and   services were affected for some time. “Due to the heavy winds, thunder and lightning, power was not holding on the overhead equipment wires on Sanpada-Mankhurd stretch on Harbour Line, and Matunga-Kurla-Thane slow line and Vidyavihar-Kanjurmarg-Thane fast line at 7.40 pm,” said a CR spokesperson. Workers rushed to the sites and fixed the problem. Harbour line services were restored by 8.15pm, CR slow line at 8.20pm and on the fast line at 8.30pm. But train services continued to be delayed till late at night.
 
 In its 24-hour forecast, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the city is likely to be partly cloudy on Saturday. On Friday evening, the maximum temperatures recorded by   Colaba and   were 33.8 degrees Celsius and 34.1 degrees Celsius respectively and the minimum temperatures were 27.8 degrees Celsius and 25.9 degrees Celsius respectively.
 
 IMD officials said the interiors of the state, especially south-central  , has been receiving pre-monsoon showers since the past few days. K S Hosalikar, deputy director-general (western region), IMD, said Friday’s showers were a result of ground heating during the day time, which received good moisture supply from the  . “This was a localized phenomenon and would be shortlived. This is triggered owing to the development of tall clouds which are also localized,” he said. “We are forecasting such isolated showers either in the late evening or afternoon in the coming three days.” 
 
 Last year, monsoon had missed its normal onset date of June 10 and reached the city 10 days later—on June 20.
 
