GURUGRAM: A 40-year-old undertrial allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from the ventilator of a toilet in Bhondsi jail in the wee hours of Saturday.

 Teeka Ram Bahadur, originally from Nepal, was in judicial custody since December for having allegedly kidnapped, sexually assaulted and murdered a minor girl in Manesar in July 2016.
 
 The reason behind the alleged suicide has not been ascertained yet as no suicide note was recovered from the spot. The area magistrate is investigating the case.
 
 Teeka Ram was arrested on the night of December 20 last year, after nearly five months on the run.
 
 Police said he was found hanging from the ventilator, with a noose made out of a bedsheet, in the toilet in barrack number 10, where he was held captive.
 
 ASI Mukesh, the investigating officer, told TOI that another prisoner spotted Teeka Ram hanging from the ceiling around 5.30am. “Information came to the Bhondsi police station at 9am. We conducted an autopsy and handed over the body to Teeka Ram’s brothers who live in Manesar,” he said.
 
 The eight-year-old girl had disappeared from near her home in Bas Kushla village on the night of July 29. Around 36 hours later, her body, bearing marks of assault and strangulation, was found on a vacant plot around a kilometre from her home in the wee hours of July 31.
 
 Based on her father’s complaint, Manesar police had lodged an FIR against an unknown man under sections 302 (murder), 201 (suppressing evidence), 365 (kidnapping) and 346 (wrongful confinement) of the IPC. 
 
 After the local police failed to nab Teeka Ram, the case was handed over to Bilaspur crime unit, which first zeroed in on friends and relatives of the minor’s family. During questioning, TeekaRam’s name had come up — he used to work with the girl’s father and had visited their home on July 29 night to have drinks with him.
 
 During further probe, cops found that Teeka Ram, who used to live in a rented house near the girl’s house, had also been missing since the same night, making him the key suspect. After his call details were tracked, it was found out that he was hiding in Barnala, Punjab. Following the trail, a police team went to Barnala but by that time he had already left for Gurgaon. Cops finally nabbed him near Rajiv Chowk.
 
 
