It was four days of unbridled joy for   enthusiast of Agra as some of the best plays that have been staged across the nation came to Agra, courtesy the  . The event, which was held at Sursadan auditorium from July 22 to July 25, saw some of the prominent theatre artists of India like  , Lubna Salim,  , Salim Arif,   and   performing in the city.

  
  A scene from Tum Sam Purush Na Mo Sam Nari
 
 Dimpy Mishra, theatre personality and organizer of the festival, shared, "This is the first time any theatre festival of this level has been organized in Agra. Our aim was to make people aware and keep them interested in theatre. We invited theatre groups from Mumbai to present their plays."
  
  Dimpy further added, "Agrawallahs, unlike people from Delhi and Mumbai, do not often get a chance to watch well known, quality plays. Through this festival, we aimed to bring quality theatre to Agra."
 
 Sandeep Agarwal, a theatre enthusiast, shared, "It was a wonderful experience to see such great theatre artists perform in Agra. I have seen good plays in Mumbai and Delhi but plays by acclaimed theatre personalities are hardly ever staged in Agra. But this festival has managed to bring great theatre directors to the city of Taj. This was a great opportunity for us Agrawallahs to see world class performances."
 
  
  The play Nat Samrat being staged in Agra
 
  Rishabh Singh, who lives in Madhu Nagar, said, "It was a different experience altogether. The setup, lighting, props, acting and direction – everything was top notch and very professional. We have never seen theatre of this stature in Agra before."
  
  Mahima Jain, who lives in Sikandra, said, "Seeing actors like Raghubir Yadav and  , who I have only seen on television before, was very enriching. Earlier, I had decided to just watch a play on the first day of the festival but the first play was so good that I decided to come for the whole festival. I loved the play Tum Sam Purush Na Mo Sam Nari the most. It was a beautiful satire on today’s relationships."
 
  
  An actor in the play Nat Samrat
 
  Four different plays were staged on four days of the festival. Piano, a play directed by Raghubir Yadav, was staged on the first day. The play is set in the seventies and features diverse emotional interplay between two characters, depicting the theme of loneliness in urban milieu. The second day saw a play called Nat Samrat, written by Vishnu Waman Shikhadkar and directed by Jayant Deshmukh, being staged. As the name suggests, it depicts trials and tribulations of a theatre actor. Tum Sam Purush Na Mo Sam Nari, this play was staged on the third day and was presented by artists from Agra. Based on nautanki style, it is a story of a couple of extremely opposite personalities. The festival culminated with Paansa, a play written by Gulzar and directed by Salim Arif. It shredded light on the complex relationship between Yudhister, Draupadi and Arjun.
 -- Jyoti.Kanyal@timesgroup.com
 
 
 
