BHOPAL: Strange as it may sound, Madhya Pradesh has a share in polluting the Ganga. An audit by National Mission for Clean Ganga names Chambal, Tons (Tamsa) and Sone among the rivers responsible for polluting the ‘holy river’.

 While Tons and Sone rivers flow directly into Ganga in bordering Uttar Pradesh, Chambal river flows into Yamuna, which links up with River Ganga. So Chambal falls is sub-sub basin of Ganga.
 
 The issue is in focus since audit of the work carried out under National Mission for Clean Ganga is underway after allegations of irregularities in the project. The agencies involved in different states, including MP, have been questioned regarding the clean-up work carried out in Ganga basin, say sources.
 
 In MP, it’s the Pollution Control Board that monitors pollution in rivers. Officials said in their reply to the audit team they have not taken funds from the Centre to clean the three rivers flowing into Ganga and whatever work has been made to clean the rivers, was at the local level.
 
 Officials said the main polluting sources in the three rivers have been identified and efforts are underway to plug them. A sewage treatment plant is being set up close to Rewa to stop Tons river from getting polluted, say sources. Similarly, the paper mills that add to pollution in Sone river in Shahdol district have been given the condition of zero-waste discharge in the river while the main source of pollution in Chambal river is industrial waste from Nagda. Checks have put in place there to stop pollution. 
 
 MPPCB chief chemist Shyamanuj Tiwari said the water quality of the three rivers in Ganga basin in MP is “by and large good within the geographical limits of the state”, so rivers of MP cannot be termed as a major cause of pollution in Ganga. Constant efforts are being made to improve the water quality of  , he added. Officials said that a nodal agency has been constituted in every state to clean up pollution in Ganga and monitor the project. The water resources department is doing the job in MP.
 
