NAGPUR: With the onset of summer, inmates of   ( )   at Gandhi Nagar are bracing for another spell of sweltering days.

 Every year, the inmates are unnecessarily forced to bear the summer heat despite having remedial options. While some students are being stopped to bring in their personal coolers, the   (ACs) are yet to be installed in the common hall even after a year of procurement. 
 
 “This is an annual affair. So we came up with the suggestion of mutually hiring or buying a cooler each for our rooms. Each room can accommodate around two to six girls. But, our proposal was turned down by the hostel officials,” the inmates told TOI on Thursday.
 
 They added that the students are also ready to foot the water and   arising from personal installation of coolers.
 
 Another group of girls also complained that in the rooms they are also not allowed to sleep directly under the fan. “They say the fans are pretty old and there is a risk of the blades causing injuries in case of collapsing,” the inmates revealed.
 
 In the absence of cooler and any immediate respite from heat, girls are using wet scarves to comfort themselves. They also said the ACs, even if installed, won’t help much as they can’t always sleep or stay in the common hall. 
 
 The hostel officials expressed helplessness citing university rules. “The contract for coolers is given in April and May when a new financial year starts. So, the rules cannot change and coolers cannot be installed now,” said Hostel Matron M Deshpande.
 
 However in the month of April and May, the hostel rooms are barely occupied as most of the students return home, thus defeating the purpose of the rules.
 
 Deshpande also said that the students are charged very low fee, which comes to around 200 per month. “It is not possible to provide all facilities.”
 
 Warden Mandikini Patil said, “Rooms are congested and earthing issues have prevented us from allowing private coolers. Besides, NU rules don’t allow any such move.”
 
 On the issue of ACs, she said the hall ceiling is leaking and therefore they can’t be set up. “The waterproofing of hall is undergoing,” she said.
 
 Registrar Puran Meshram said, “This is norm for all government offices to install coolers from April because the financial year ends in March. But, we usually extend the duration for coolers till monsoon. Still, since students have complained, we would discuss the issue in our next meetings.”
 
 On private coolers, he said, “The warden hasn’t conveyed to us any such proposal of the students.”
 
 Surprisingly, the NU had procured a couple of ACs (exact numbers couldn’t be ascertained) to set up in the common hall of the hostel but without giving a thought to it feasibility a year ago.
 
 “There won’t be any effect of the ACs since the hall is quite large,” Deshpande said.
 
 However, Meshram informed that it was the duty of the warden to ensure the capacity of ACs is in sync with the requirement and are installed by the contractor. 
 
