PUNE:   more full-grown trees on   were cut early on Monday to widen the stretch for the Bus Rapid Transit System corridor. 

 Most trees, including several 100-year-old banyan trees were outside Chatushrungi police station. As many as 13 full-grown trees have been cut since Friday and seven more are expected to axed in the next few days.
 
 Tree activists, who have been taking turns to sit in protest at and around the spot since Friday, may file a complaint on Tuesday. The activists are likely to approach   officials with a letter.
 
 Tree activists are feeling let down by the civic authorities who, they alleged, were being hasty about the tree cutting as it was being discussed for the last few months. They also questioned the legality of the work orders, alleging fudging of dates on the notices. 
 
 Sathya Natarajan, one of the activists, who participated in the agitation, said, “Pune Municipal Corporation has flouted the rules of the Tree Act. Policemen did not step in to stop the   even though the work order for Monday’s tree cutting was not available. In fact, the dates on the documents have been changed.” 
 
 Many activists questioned the design policy being implemented on the road. Anupam Saraph, core committee member of the Area Sabha Association of Pune Citizens said, “Before thoughtlessly cutting down so many trees, I wish the civic body and their consultants had taken stock of the BRTS. They must admit that BRTS has not worked anywhere in the city. Rather, the traffic congestion has increased.” 
 
 Tree officer   said, "We have followed the procedure. The permission for cutting these trees was granted a long time ago. The work orders have been issued recently. The activists have been given a patient hearing earlier and the final plan has been prepared only thereafter,” she said.
 
 Meanwhile National Congress Party MP Vandana Chavan too condemned the tree cutting and questioned its legality. “The Tree Committee of the civic body was dissolved in March. No tree felling orders can be issued unless a new committee is formed. We cannot improve the city’s green cover if we keep cutting down trees, including these on the Aundh Road which were there since the British Era. Strict action must be taken against the people responsible for this ruthless tree cut,” she said.
 
 Meanwhile, member of Parliament Anil Shirole has written to municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar for an urgent meeting. “Felling of trees must not be allowed until all concerned have met to discuss the issue,” Shirole wrote in his letter.
 
 Congresss leader and former deputy mayor Aba Bagul has suggested another approach. “The civic body must mark roads proposed in the Development Plan in the nine main corridors right now and plant saplings along these markings. So by the time the roadwork is undertaken, the trees will have grown fully. Portions earmarked for road widening must also be marked and similar tree plantation should be undertaken immediately,” he said in a statement issued on Monday.
 
