MANALI: Surrounded by  ,  , hungry and completely exhausted, two of the five   who had gone missing on 11,000ft high Rasol Pass of   on Wednesday fell asleep around a  . Little did they know that this small comfort would prove fatal for them.

 They would have lived if they had avoided sleep, say experts, adding that they should have kept walking, exercising and talking to keep themselves warm. The group made a series of mistakes that led to the deaths of 20-year-olds Santosh and Bipra. Nitesh Pradhan and Vikas Kandil, both 20, and Arjun Mishra, 24, were left traumatized and are undergoing treatment at a Kullu hospital.
 
 This is not a season to trek and cross any Himalayan mountain pass which are covered with thick layer of snow at this time of the year.
 
 The students without seeking any advice and without hiring a local guide started climbing the mountain from Rasol side. The weather suddenly turned inclement, bringing snow, mist, wind and cold.
 
 The biggest mistake trekkers made was not being equipped to deal with the Himalayan weather. They didn’t have any food, tent, warm clothes, survival kit or map. They were carrying just a small bag, which had some documents.
 
 When they reached the top of the Rasol pass, it was snowing and they realized that they had already lost their way. All of them were totally drenched by now and shivering in the freezing temperature at that height. They climbed down the pass for about 100 metres and took refuge in a cave in the dense forest. They lighted a small fire by burning their bag and some clothes.
 
 Only thing that saved the three of the group was that they dialed 100 number and informed police that they had lost their way somewhere on the hill.
 
 Soon, however, they made the final mistake. It was snowing all around them and temperature was below freezing point. The fire was providing them some relief and three of them fell asleep as they were completely exhausted. The fire burned out but they did not wake up. They again got drenched. Their internal temperature dropped dangerously, plunging them into a state of hypothermia. Two who did not sleep were still fine but condition of those sleeping deteriorated.
 
 The moment when search and rescue teams located them, they were lying like inanimate objects. The rescuers immediately lighted a fire and gave their dry clothes to the five.
 
 “We rubbed them hard. We gave them clothes and tried all possible ways to warm them up. Two of those who were sleeping wanted to talk but could not utter a single word. After primary action, we lifted them to Nirang from where we took them to Jari hospital by car. Condition of one of them worsened before we could reach the hospital. Eventually, two of them succumbed at the hospital,” search and rescue team leader of Chhape Ram Negi told TOI.
 
 Manali DSP Puneet Raghu said the three survivors had been admitted to Kullu Regional Hospital. “We have informed the parents of one student. Others are being contacted. We shall carry out postmortem on the bodies and hand them over to their relatives,” he said.
 
 The youths who are studying in Delhi had come to Parbati valley on Tuesday and on Wednesday started uphill climb to 11,000-foot-high Rasol Pass to reach Malana on the other side. They went missing on pass and made an SOS call. A six-member police team and nine-member private search and rescue team started looking for them soon after receiving the distress message.
 
 Irresponsible trekking continues to claim lives
 
 This is not for the first time that trekking in Kullu has plunged trekkers deep into trouble. Trekkers start climbing the mountains in any season without informing authorities and without hiring local guides, who are well versed with the area.
 
 Eight students of an engineering college of Punjab were stranded near Chanderkhani Pass, next to Rasol Pass, in March last year. They were lucky that a helicopter was available in Manali that time and they were spotted and airlifted after three days of intensive search. 
 
 On February 2 this year, an UPSC aspirant from Haryana started mountain hiking near Manali and got lost. Police and local residents searched and brought him back by the midnight. Some tourists from Delhi were stranded near Malana last month after snowfall and local search team rescued them. Over 20 foreigners are still missing on mountains in Kullu while many have lost their lives.
 
 Search and rescue ops without equipment
 
 It is not really surprising that many times the search and rescue experts find themselves in trouble and close to death as they do not have professional kits to carry out the operations. They, after receiving distress message, go to search in any weather and such operations many times continue for many days.
 
 Even cops are not professional mountaineers and have no information about routes or knowledge about mountaineering equipment. They don’t have special dresses and shoes and go on operations with regular uniform and leather shoes, risking their own lives.
 
 Willing but hindered
 
 Negi’s Adventure is the only professional agency that has been part of over a hundred such operations. They have rescued many people including police personnel. Its owner Chhape Ram Negi complains: “Communication between people engaged in rescue operation is the prime necessity. Unfortunately, we don’t have such facility. Mobile networks do not work on mountains. I’ve a small walkie-talkie set which is not very effective. I have requested administration many times to permit us to use radio frequency for wireless system and also provide good rescue kit, but in vain. We are professionals but still have a long way to go to make ourselves competent in this field. It’s not really possible without professional-grade equipment. Tourist season will soon start and we will be flooded with SOS calls from both tourists and administration.”
 
 Policies limited to papers
 
 The district administration had asked all trekkers and hikers to inform police, tourism department, SDMs or DC by email before leaving for trekking or expeditions so that they could be rescued in time of emergency. But, very few are following this. Administration has no check on such activities and has no idea that how many people are on trek at a particular time. There was a plan that district police will get some satellite phones and GPS systems to rent out to trekkers for their convenience but the plan could not turn into reality.
 
