BENGALURU: The recent demonetization of high denomination currency notes seems to have had little impact, at least in Karnataka, if chief minister   is to be believed.

 In his reply to an extended debate on the governor’s address in the joint session on Tuesday, Siddaramaiah said about 98 per cent of banned notes returned to banks as on January 3. He said Rs 52,919 crore in denomination of Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 was withdrawn in Karnataka as part of the national drive. 
 
 “The scope of the Centre making windfall gains through extinction of black and fake currency notes has completely gone for a toss,’’ he claimed.
 
 The CM, however, conceded that the drive had a huge impact on revenue collection and cooperative banking sector in Karnataka but refused to elaborate on it saying he would substantiate it with figures in his budget in March. 
 
 Of the Rs 17.9 lakh crore that was in circulation across the country, Siddaramaiah said Rs 14.55 lakh crore was in Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 denomination that was demonetized on November 8 last year. “By demonetizing 86 per cent of the cash without adequate preparation, Modi has devastated the lives of poor people and farmers,” he alleged. 
 
 He also accused the Centre of indulging in vendetta politics by targeting only the Congressmen in connection with unaccounted money. “Are all BJP politicians BPL cardholders?’’ he sought to know when some BJP members objected to his statement.
 
 ‘Centre must waive 50 % crop loan’
 
 Turning the tables on the BJP which has been demanding crop loan waiver, Siddaramaiah said he would heed their demand only if the Centre waives at least 50 per cent of the loans availed of by state farmers from nationalized banks.
 
 “Only 20 to 22 per cent of farmers have taken loans from cooperative societies which come under the state (Rs 10,000 crore). But 78 to 80 per cent of farmers have borrowed from nationalized banks (Rs 35,000 crore). This shows the Centre has to act if a majority of farmers have to benefit,” he added.
 
 Siddaramaiah’s jibe at the Centre resulted in the BJP members staging a walkout.
 
 Much ado over credit
 
 True to the saying that success has a thousand fathers, the ruling Congress, the BJP and the JD(S) were fighting to claim credit for the state’s various achievements. While Bengaluru was branded as the dynamic city by the World Economic Forum, Mysuru got the cleanest city tag twice from the Centre and Karnataka was declared No. 1 state to attract investments in 2016 by the  . 
 
 “I’m very proud, because all these rankings have come from a neutral agency and it was all due to our good policies,’’ chief minister Siddaramaiah said. 
 
 However, the BJP argued that Bengaluru earned the dynamic city status because of the contribution of   and Modi’s global appeal. The JD(S) wanted credit for Mysuru’s achievement because the city corporation was under the party control with its mayor holding the reins.
 
