CHANDIGARH: An 11-year-old girl deserted by her parents was allegedly raped by her landlord and brutally tortured by his mother in Samalkha town of Panipat. On approaching the police on March 19, she was meted out insensitive treatment by a woman cop.

 It was only following the intervention of the State Commission for the   (SCPCR) headed by B K Goel that the cops got the girl medically examined on Tuesday .This led to confirmation of sexual abuse and assault. The accused and his mother have been arrested.
 
 The victim and her parents belong to Madhya Pardesh and were living in a rented accommodation owned by the accused.Things took a nightmarish turn for the girl, when her parents deserted her six months back. The girl was sexually exploited by the house owner many times and harassed by his family . When the girl informed the accused's mother, she not only thrashed her, but also inserted a hot tong in her body.
 
 “On March 19, the girl managed to flee from their house and approached the police. However, instead of getting her medically examining in accordance with the provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the cops managed to get her a fitness certificate. It was only after she was taken to the Child Care Institute (CCI) that the child welfare council came to know about her internal injuries. Her medical examination by a three-doctor board on Tuesday confirmed sexual abuse as well as assault,“ said SCPCR member monitoring the case.
 
 Panel member R K Goel said, “The girl was exploited by the accused and his family as bonded labour. When she went to the police, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Yogesh Kumari not only bypassed certain statutory formalities of the case but also helped the accused's wife in getting access to the victim.'' The accused's wife then threatened the rape survivor.
 
 SP   transferred the case to women police station and ASI Yogesh Kumari has been shifted out.
 
 According to the women police station, the accused and his mother were booked for assault, wrongful confinement, criminal intimidation and under the POCSO Act. They were remanded to judicial custody on Wednesday .
 
