HYDERABAD: The   on Tuesday sought to know from   and Telangana how they plan to implement the laws pertaining to prevent malpractices like mass copying in the examinations. "This is a medicine. It may be bitter in the first year. But it should be administered to bring about a change in the attitude of the parents, students and the educational institutions towards life and the society. We have to somehow get rid of this menace", the bench of Acting Chief Justice   and Justice Shameem Akthar said while hearing a public interest petition filed by   who complained about the failure of the governments in implementing the provisions of the Public Examinations (Prevention of Malpractices) Act, 1997. 

 The bench turned critical towards Telangana counsel for trying to defend the existing efforts which are seemingly inadequate to meet the challenge. The bench added that it would help the students because they would start concentrating on their studies seriously and also the society as it would start getting better citizens in the long run.
 
 Brushing aside the statistics being poured out by the states, the bench sought to know how many negligent officials, examiners, invigilators were penalized under the Act. It came to the fore that none of them were punished in the last two decades. The bench also expressed its dissatisfaction over the vague affidavits filed by the chief secretaries of both the states and asked them to file better affidavits duly indicating the seriousness of the authorities. 
 
 Appearing for the petitioners, senior counsel S   told the court that the state was telling the court about the number of flying squads it deployed etc which did nothing even in the face of huge mass copying in Warangal district. The affidavit of the CS says nothing about this. This shows lack of seriousness on the part of the officials, he said. He also pointed out how even CC TVs installed at exam centres were rendered ineffective because the examiners and invigilators were not serious enough to implement the law. 
 
 Justice Ranganathan observed that the system would rapidly improve if the states start prosecuting such examiners because the Act has a provision to punish such negligent officials. The states were given three weeks time to file their counters.
 
