SURAT: Diamond firms and companies, including those owned by Gujarati diamantaires, are under the scanner of Belgium law enforcing agencies to prevent money laundering. 

 According to the US-based Rapaport group, Belgian inspectors are checking diamond companies’ offices at random, the latest in a series of inspections to prevent money laundering, the   (AWDC) has confirmed.
 
 Inspectors from   (FPS) Economy — the Belgian equivalent of an economy ministry — started the audits on April 18 and will continue them until the end of June, the AWDC said in a note to traders last month. 
 
 Industry sources said the AWDC has advised firms to keep their book-keeping and client identification processes up-to-date and have them available at the company offices.
 
 Such checks have taken place annually since 2014, with around 40 companies scrutinized each time. Usually, the FPS informs the AWDC in advance that it will be conducting random inspections. After that, inspections may occur with or without notice, performed by one or two FPS Economy control officers, added Rapaport. 
 
 Starting this year, the inspectors have assumed the authority of police officers, enabling them to impose fines and start investigations. If they find a company requires further inquiries or prosecution due to serious violations, they send a report to prosecution authorities. Minor wrongdoings can carry a fine of $544 (EUR 500) to $2,177 (EUR 2,000), depending on the company’s revenue. 
 
 Most of Gujarati diamantaires in Antwerp are viewing this as an advantage to local industry. 
 
  of Antwerp-based Swati Gems, told Rapaport, how inspectors took five random supply invoices and five random sales invoices from his company’s files as part of the probe. The inspectors then asked for related documents, such as company registration papers and details of shareholders.
 
 “No other diamond centre is as strict as we are here,” Choksi said. “Thanks to this asset, with the support of our government, we can clearly make a difference, ensuring the reputation of our product is better than anywhere else.” 
 
 Belgian diamond traders have been required to comply with the nation’s anti-money-laundering legislation since 2004. A 2013 royal decree added further regulations specifically for the diamond industry. 
 
 Under the rules, traders are required to appoint someone who will be responsible for anti-money-laundering activities. They must also carry out client identification, verify documents the company receives, tell   about any suspicious transactions, and submit an activity report to the licence service of FPS Economy every year, Rapaport added.
 
