Her current reel life isn’t vastly different from her real life. And ever since   Geetha Bhat debuted in the recently-launched  , she has been breaking new ground on both professional and personal fronts. A plus-sized woman herself, Geetha’s role in the daily soap also deals with the trials, tribulations and victories of a plus-sized woman.
 “In fact, I too have been dealing with obesity ever since I underwent a surgery in school. So I’ve been constantly encountering nosey questions about my weight issues. Especially in school, the hip girls would never make me a part of their gang and sideline me by poking fun at my weight. It slowly changed when I entered a co-education college. I felt the boys were far more empathetic about my plus-sized structure and treated me as an individual. It was also the time my singing skills came in handy and I found friends who liked music,” shares Geetha.
  Time passed, but except for the occasional understanding friends she made along the way, she continued facing jibes from various quarters. “But by then, I had learnt how to laugh at myself. Once I did that people stopped laughing at my expense. It has held me in good stead always,” observes Geetha. She offers as example a singing competition that she was part of during her B.Com days. “I had worn a sari to the event and the climb up to the stage was rather steep. I tripped on my way to the stage and there was an awkward silence for a few minutes. But I began laughing at my fall, gathered myself and proceeded to sing. I went on to even win the first place,” she says proudly.
  It is this will to make it despite all the odds that also worked in her favour when she decided to give up a lucrative corporate job and pursue full-time singing. “And then came the most significant phase of my life — the opportunity to become an actor and star in Brahmagantu. When the makers approached me and narrated the script, I realised that this is the platform I’ve been waiting for to convey my thoughts. Yes, plus-sized women, too have feelings and nurture dreams, just that the world is too busy mocking at them and people around don’t realise this,” she states.
  Geetha further adds that in the two weeks that it has gone on air, her character has already managed to break many notions. “My character is named Geetha in the serial, too but people around her call her Gundamma owing to her size. Yet, she is a do-gooder and doesn’t think twice about helping anyone. Obese people are generally considered lazy, but Gundamma is the first one to take up any task. Her size has no bearing on her swiftness,” she tells us. In fact, Geetha’s real-life parents, who were initially against her taking up acting, have also become Gundamma’s fans. " I get many mails from plus-sized girls who share their dilemmas and appreciate me bringing to the fore the issues that plague their life. Young girls who are obese have found renewed hope and I’m so glad to inspire them. Our society should quit obsessing over picture-perfect bodies and hailing ideal body types," says Geetha. 
