CHENNAI: Exactly a week after he resigned from the post of chief minister, O   on Monday afternoon entered his office at the Secretariat, in what seemed like a move to re-assert his authority. He summoned chief secretary Girija Vaidyanathan, home secretary Apurva Varma, DGP T K Rajendran and city police commissioner S George for a review of law and order situation in the wake of continued political turmoil and uncertainty in the state. OPS, however, kept everyone guessing by remaining at the secretariat for seven hours, until 8pm.

 Accompanied by education minister K Pandiarajan and MLAs, who defected from the party, Panneerselvam took a 15-minute journey from his Greenways Road residence in Chennai after supporters took the traditional ‘aarati’ and showered flowers on him. His convoy reached Fort St George amidst media frenzy. He then took the stairs to reach his office on the first floor. None of the department heads visited him save personnel and administrative reforms secretary S Swarna.
 
 Ten minutes later, he was joined by the chief secretary and his secretaries, home secretary Apurva Varma, and senior police officers. While the others left after 30 minutes, George continued to be closetted with the CM for an hour. DGP Rajendran returned for a brief discussion with Panneerselvam, sources said. Rajendran had to sit in minister R Kamaraj’s office for a short while after a number of government staff gathered at OPS’ office apparently to discuss about promotions following a court order. Panneerselvam is learnt to have heeded to the request immediately.
 
 TN Secretariat Association president J Ganesan said members were glad that the CM had cleared a pending file for more than five years. “He gave a patient hearing to our grievances. His order will benefit 600 officers from the rank of section officers to additional secretaries,” the official told TOI. A couple of hours later, Panneerselvam condoled the death of Hasini, a seven-year-old, who was murdered after being sexually assaulted in Chennai last week, and announced Rs three lakh to the bereaved family. 
 
 DMK working president and leader of the opposition M K Stalin dropped in at the secretariat, along with senior leaders at around noon, setting off speculations that they would meet OPS. But Stalin left half-an-hour later without any such meeting taking place.
 
 
