NEW DELHI: The   government is seething at the allegations levelled by its former security adviser K P S Gill, engaged for a year in 2006 to tackle Left-wing extremism in the state, that it had not implemented his suggestions for uprooting the menace.

 A top government official told TOI that the reality was quite the opposite, with almost all of Gill’s proposals and recommendations to strengthen the counter-Naxal grid having been implemented over the years.
 
 Slamming Gill for his recent media interviews accusing Chhattisgarh government of “discussing a lot during his one-year stint but implementing nothing”, top officers of the state recalled that all his suggestions, including introduction of an accelerated promotion scheme for sub-inspectors and police constables and posting them in worst-hit police stations, creation of an anti-Naxal crack force on the Greyhounds pattern, expanding forces in  , proper training of officers, deputation of officers from CPMF, incentive policy and more bulletproof vehicles for VIP security were meticulously implemented in the years after his one-year tenure ended.
 
 A state government official made it a point to clarify that Gill had neither “quit” over non-implementation of his suggestions nor was he “removed” by the Chhattisgarh administration. “His tenure as per terms of his appointment was for a year. It was not renewed,” said the officer. Interestingly, sources based in Chhattisgarh claimed that Gill, through his one-year tenure, visited Sarguja once and Bastar four times. In Bastar, he took a meeting of officials each in Ambikapur, Keshkal, Jagdalpur and Chitrakoot. He never visited Sukma, Dantewada or Bijapur, the most affected areas.
 
 Sharing the list of suggestions made by the former   DGP and the action taken by it, the state government told TOI that in line with Gill’s stress on accelerated promotion scheme for SI and constable-level officers and their placement in worsthit police stations, it had adopted a one-time promotion policy and promoted constables to SI/platoon commander rank through a written examination. As many as 92 such promoted SIs and 60 police constables were posted in Naxal-hit areas for a minimum tenure of 10 years. Of the 92 SIs, 27 were promoted to Inspector rank. On his proposal for a Greyhounds-like elite force, Chhattisgarh constituted the special task force (STF) in 2007.
 
 
