KOLKATA: The Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering ( ) -the entrance test for admission to post-graduate courses in premier technology and science institutes -saw 254 overseas applicants taking the exam from six countries this year. The candidates included  ,  .

 The highest number of candidates were enrolled in Dubai, where 199 examinees appeared for the examination.The other countries were UAE, Bangladesh, Singapore, Ethiopia, Nepal and Sri Lanka. After Dubai, the highest number of examinees were from Singapore, which had 33.
 
 “There was clear instruction from the HRD ministry that even if there was one candidate from any country we would have to hold the test there,“ said chairman of GATE 2017, Govind   of IIT-Roorkee. Next year, the exam is likely to be held in 16 countries. The total number of candidates who took the test this year was 9,22,167.
 
 Six of the older IITs were in-charge of holding the overseas tests and in most cases the Indian embassies were selected as examination centres. In order to spread the word that GATE was being held at overseas centres, posters and messages were sent to prominent colleges seeking participation from meritorious graduates. This generated a lot of interest, said an MHRD official.
 
 “After the HRD ministry gave the nod to holding the examination abroad, we received a call from   requesting us to hold GATE in the US. But this year we couldn't. From next year, the ministry has already given a green light to holding the examination in as many as 16 countries,“ Goving Chakrapani said.
 
 One of the reasons for the good response from overseas candidate is because GATE scores are valid for admission in some of the renowned technology schools of Singapore and UK among others. “ Also, the cost of education in the Indian schools is cheaper even though the quality of teaching is way better,“ explained an IIT official.
 
 The GATE 2017 results will be published on March 27.On the lines of GATE, IIT-JEE (advanced) too will be conducted in six countries for the first time this year.
 
