NAGPUR: The little-known Badnera railway station, 180km from here under   of  , has shown the way by ranking 6th across the Indian Railways among clean stations.

 With 818 marks out of a maximum 1,000, Badnera ranked 6th in ‘A’ category stations, 1st in Bhusawal Division and 2nd in Central Railway Zone. The audit survey was done for 332 ‘A’ category stations.
 
 Stations whose annual revenue is between Rs 8 crore and Rs 60 crore fall under ‘A’ category stations. The station got a good score in all three standards: Process audit, direct observation, and citizen’s feedback. Each category had 333.33 marks.
 
 Badnera station, which is a junction and falls on Howrah-Mumbai route, was set up in 1867. It has amenities like STD/public call office booth, PRS, waiting rooms, retiring room, and refreshment stalls.
 
 Talking to TOI about the success, a delighted station manager RW Nisane said, “It was a team effort. We used to counsel passengers against littering and staff too on various aspects. Besides, weekly meetings with department heads were held to pin-point weaknesses and how to improve.”
 
 Nisane said, “When the survey was conducted by   (QCI), even I was not allowed. All staff was kept away. The team was digitally in touch with their counterparts in Delhi.”
 
 The station manager said the station was divided in three parts to maintain it in a better way. “Though the station cleaning contract was awarded to a private party, lack of cleanliness was pointed out to the workers, ensuring the station always remained clean. After regular inspection by me for an hour daily, the departments concerned were informed about loopholes and repairs, which were rectified in time,” says Nisane. 
 
 The ranking of A1 & A category stations based on regular periodic third party audit and feedback from passengers was announced in February 2016 budget. This was done with a view to identify unclean spots/gaps and to improve cleanliness standards and also to propel healthy competition among railway stations.
 
 ABOUT BADNERA STATION
 
 Set up in 1867
 
 Division: Bhusawal, Central Railway
 
 Revenue: Rs 18.80 cr annually
 
 Ticket sold: 4,500 daily
 
 Passengers: 6,000 daily
 
 Trains: 48 mail/express daily
 
 Platform: 4
 
 Tracks: 8
 
 Score: 818 marks out of 1,000
 
 Badnera scored 255 score in process audit, which involved parking entry, main platform, main entry, waiting room and cleaning staff 
 
 In direct observation, the station scored 292 marks and 
 
 In Citizen’s Feedback, the station received maximum score of 271
 
