TRICHY: Close to a lakh devotees converged at the famous Mariamman temple at Samayapuram on Monday to witness its consecration which happens once in 12 years. The temple has undergone a Rs 25 crore renovation this time. 

 The day began with Vigneshwara pooja around 4 am following which the sixth kala yaga pooja was started by the temple priests. Finally, pots filled with holy water from yagasala mandapam were taken to golden vimana (tower above the sanctum sanctorum) and the temple consecrated at 7.10 am. Devotees erupted in “Om shakthi, para sakthi” chants as soon as samprokshanam was performed by the priests from 7.10 to 7 30 am. 
 
 In all, 42 sprinklers were erected through which holy water was sprinkled on devotees after the samprokshanam. Mahabhishekam and deeparadhana on the presiding deity were performed in the evening. Devotees from far and near including those from overseas witnessed the consecration in the morning. Authorities said that the number of devotees crossed 2 lakh till evening as the temple remained open for darshan till 11 pm.
 
 “But for the tight security and stringent measures taken by the police to avert any untoward incident, the number of devotees would have been far far higher” joint commissioner and executive officer of the temple   said. The police didn’t relax security measures till late in the afternoon as the belongings of devotees were checked using scanners. 
 
 Priot to this, it was in 2004 that the temple was consecrated. This time the consecration has happened after a complete renovation. The outer part around the temple sanctum (Prakaram) has been widened to accommodate more devotees during the event. All the four major temple towers have been removed including those of various sannidhis. A three-floor building facilitating hair offering for the devotees has been created. Besides, toilet blocks with a capacity of hundred users have also been created. Extended parking facility, rest shed and approach roads were set up this time for the consecration. 
 
 Tourism minister   and Backward Class and   minister  , additional secretary to chief minister   and Collector K S Palanisamy were among those present.
 
