 are used to seeing heavy police deployment and challaning on the roads, however, due to the  , which was attended by many ministers and celebrities, cops were missing from the roads on Wednesday. And as a result, the traffic was brought to a crawl. Commutes told us that because of the road diversions for the event, and the resulting traffic jams, this Wednesday felt like a Saturday.

 
 
 More than 3,000 police officials, including cops from other districts, were deployed in and around Kingdom of Dreams, the venue of the Haryana Pravasi Divas. So, there were not many cops on the roads. Ankush Sindhwani, a businessman, says, “Gurgaon has become challan-fearing. People don’t violate traffic rules if they see a PCR van or a constable on the road. Par jahan mauka mila, wahan traffic signal jump, wrong lane driving kar lete hain. The journey from my office, near  , to my home, in Sector 50, usually takes 15-20 mins. But on Wednesday, it took me over 1.5 hours because people were driving on the wrong lane.
 Akanksha Bansal, an HR who lives in Gurgaon-Delhi border area, says, "I had planned to avoid the diversion routes, but I had a client meeting in Sector 29. I ended up spending two hours on a journey that usually takes 40 minutes."
 
 
 
 While in Delhi the Metro service was crippled on Wednesday after two technical snags, Gurgaon commuters were saved by the Metro. Dhruv Upadhyay, an event manager who lives in Sector 55, says, "My office is just a few metres away from Signature Tower, but it took me half an hour to just cross that stretch. I had to attend a function in east Delhi, so I decided to park my car at the office and take the Metro instead."
 
 True story, says Shazia, a consultant. She told us, "I live in west Delhi and my office is near Huda City Centre. I tried booking a cab in the evening, but for half an hour the driver kept saying, ‘Madam bas paanch minute, jam laga hai’. After waiting for the cab for 30-40 minutes, the only option left was to take the Metro."
 
 
 
 The traffic diversions left commuters asking, ‘Aaj Wednesday hai ya Saturday?’ Vinod Sharma, who works in a pharma company, tells us, "Instead of a weekday, it felt like a Saturday evening. I had to wait for an hour just to head back home from work. My office is near the   and the traffic was literally crawling. So I decided to wait in my office instead of in the car."
 
 Ayush Mishra, who works in a BPO in MG Road, tells us, "My shift starts in the evening, and I had no clue about which roads were closed due to traffic restrictions near Sector 15, where I stay. By the time I reached office, I was two hours late and my shift manager had texted me, ‘You think you can just decide to not come to office on your own? Is this school?’ So I just bunked my office and didn’t report!"
 
 
