AMRITSAR: A complaint was lodged against former BJP MP   on Friday for allegedly distorting a Gurbani couplet. An Amritsar resident Khazan Singh has filed a police  , demanding that an FIR be lodged against him under Section 295-A (hurting the religious sentiments) of the IPC. 

 In his complaint to the Amritsar commissioner of police, Khazan, who runs furniture business, alleged that Sidhu had distorted the Gurbani couplet by saying “Jab tak Congress bahal na karaun, Sidhu naam na kahlaun” during a political rally in the runup to the assembly elections. In his complaint, he also mentioned the couplet written by Guru Gobind Singh which the Sidhu had distorted. 
 
 Khazan alleged that since Sidhu was born and brought up as a Sikh, he knew that the couplet was written and recited by Sikh Guru Gobind Singh. “His action was deliberate and malicious,” he said. He claimed to have heard Sidhu distorting Gurbani couplet on social media and read media reports about it.
 
 The complaint has been referred to Assistant Commissioner Poice (West) Gaurav Toora for further investigations. 
 
 On January 22, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Kirpal Singh Badungar had warned Congress leadership against distorting Gurbani for their political gains. He had also referred to PPCC chief Amarinder Singh’s address mentioning ‘Mard Agamra’ at a political rally. Badungar had also referred the matter to the   for consideration by the jathedar.
 
 Sidhu could not be contacted for comments despite repeated attempts. When asked about the fate of complaint he forwarded to the Akal Takht, Badungar replied: “I will inquire about it.”
 
 During 2014 Lok Sabha elections, Majithia had distorted “Deh Shiva Var Mohe” hymn of 10th Sikh master Guru Gobind Singh while addressing a political rally by incorporating SAD-BJP nominee Arun Jaitley’s name in it. Instead of ending the hymn as “nischay karr apni jeet karu” Bikram had said, “nischay kar Arun Jailtey ki jeet karu”. Held guilty of blasphemy by the Akal Takht, he had atoned for his sin.
 
 
