It was Krishnendu’s dream to study in Kerala Kalamandalam. When she got the admission for Koodiyattam in 1997, she hardly knew a thing about it or its allied art form, Nangyarkoothu. 

 However, curiosity gave way to passion in just two years! The artiste has travelled the world with the art form for 16 years, winning awards and accolades, the latest of which is the National Academy of Music, Dance and Drama’s Ustad Bismilla Khan Yuva Puraskar. What’s it like to be a Nangyarkoothu artiste in today’s times? Krishnendu tells us:
 
 “Things are better now, as compared to the number of stages the State offered to Koodiyattam till a few years ago. After Sangeetha Nataka Akademi’s Koodiyattam Kendram in Thiruvananthapuram was set up, artistes are getting more opportunities to perform. However, we are also creating stages for ourselves for longer performances and creative satisfaction,” says Krishnendu.
 
 She has been performing the entirety of the Sreekrishnacharitham, which depicts the life of Lord Krishna, in a series for the past two years. “I break it down into performances of a maximum of two and half hours each. I can’t say how many such sessions are needed, yet, as I give precedence to intensely portray certain portions in which there is more scope of performance,” says the artiste.
 
 All that said, Nangyarkoothu still doesn’t enjoy as many stages as art forms like Mohiniyattam or Kathakali. Why so? “I guess it has to do with the difficulty to follow the performance and lack of awareness about Koodiyattam among the people. While the rest of the art forms also use similar modes of storytelling, people aren’t quite used to Nangyarkoothu’s language. People here don’t try to learn it much either, which is sad,” says Krishnendu, who has been performing across the world since 2001.
 
 Artistes like Krishnendu has time and again expressed displeasure over how the matter of caste still rules this art form, which sometimes affect the grants or funding they get as performers. “Nangyarkoothu is traditionally performed only in temples, that too as offertories by women of the nangyar community. There are definitely a few women who practise it right as well. I don’t belong to the community, so I don’t perform it in temples, but I respect the traditions. However, at the same time, a few get to grab the grants and funds for the performers just because they belong to the community, even when they haven’t learnt much of this art form. The justification they give is that people like me are guest lecturers in Kalamandalam. I don’t think that is fair,” explains the artiste.
 
 Meanwhile, she is busy doing research on a Koodiyattam topic, which has never been explored before. “My thesis is based on the Sanskrit theatre commentary text Vangya Vyakhya. It is one of the basic texts that has influenced koodiyattam a lot. But probably due to the complexity of the prose, not many has attempted to study it well. It has instructions on how to act and more, and my dream is to choreograph a performance called tapathisamvaranam, solely based on the text. I hope I can stage it within a year,”
 Krishnendu signs off. 
 
