NEW DELHI: Keiron Pollard scored a match-winning half-century as Mumbai Indians overcame a top-order explosion to post a thrilling four-wicket win against Royal Challengers Bangalore in an Indian Premier League contest on Friday. Chasing a low 143 at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium, MI received body blows at the start that saw Samuel Badree picking a hat-trick in his first match of the season reducing them to a sorry 7/4. 

 But Pollard and Krunal Pandya picked up the pieces to shape what turned out to be a famous win. Pollard thumped three fours and five sixes to score 70 off 47 while Krunal remained unbeaten on 37 to help MI chase down the target in 18.5 overs. Together, they added 93 runs as the visitors recorded their third straight win.
 
 Here we look at the five major highlights from MI's close win in Bangalore
 
 
 Royal Challengers Bangalore must have felt confident in their fourth match of the season with the return of their skipper Virat Kohli against Mumbai Indians. Chris Gayle, who missed RCB's last game, also returned to the playing XI. With Kohli at the top, the Jamaican forms one-half of a lethal opening combo. The early signs were ominous – at least from Kohli. In the third over, he clattered two fours and a six off Tim Southee. Gayle caught up with his skipper with a four of McClenaghan and Harbhajan in successive overs but his innings could at best be summed up as rusty. Credit to the MI bowlers who didn't give him the width and length he feasts on. At the end of Powerplay overs, RCB had managed 41/0. Gayle's brute force though fetched him a six over long-on despite the shot being a mishit which also took the score to 50 runs in seven overs. The introduction of Hardik Pandya ended Gayle's misery who feathered an edge to wicketkeeper Parthiv Patel to depart for a 27-ball 22. 
 
 
 Kohli has been out of action since hurting his shoulder in the third Test against Australia last month. He recovered and returned to competitive action on Friday and judging by the way he unfurled his range of strokes, it never seemed he was playing in his first match of the season. A guide to fine leg got him his first run in the first over and a skip forward off Tim Southee brought him his first six of the innings. In fact, he hit Southee for two consecutive fours in the same over to prove his form. A swat over long-off off Jasprit Bumrah for a sumptuous six took him to his first half-century of   which is also his 27th overall in the tournament. However, RCB were crawling on the run-rate front. To correct that, Kohli took the aerial route in the 16th over only to hit the shot straight to Jos Buttler at deep extra cover to depart for a 47-ball 62. 
 
 
 Guess how many runs RCB scored in the final five overs? 32. Guess how many of those came in boundaries? None! Yes, that happened. It's rare for a team to go boundary-less in the death overs but on Friday, McClenaghan, Krunal Pandya and Jasprit Bumrah combined to shut the doors on RCB batsmen in their home ground which is notorious for its hatred towards bowlers. Left-arm pacer McClenaghan began the slide with the scalp of Kohli in the 16th over and Krunal delivered the sucker punch in the next getting rid of AB de Villiers for the third successive time in as many matches. The left-arm spinner could have gotten the big-hitting South African early and cheaply had Buttler correctly judged a high catch at long-on when De Villiers was on seven but that wasn't the case. But Krunal scalped De Villiers later thanks to a stunning one-handed catch from Rohit Sharma at extra cover who flew to his left and stick out his left hand. Off the final three overs, RCB only managed 23 at the cost of two more wickets.
 
 
 Samuel Badree left MI dug-out shell-shocked with a stunning hat-trick in the Powerplay overs. Parthiv Patel, Mitchell McClenaghan and Rohit Sharma were his victims. The first to go was Parthiv who ended up hitting a wrong'un towards short extra cover where Chris Gayle showed good reflexes to pouch the catch. Next up, MI took a punt on McClenaghan sending him at no 4. The Kiwi was served a low full toss and he ended up hitting it straight into the hands of long-on fielder to be out for a first-ball duck. That brought captain Rohit on strike who also had to face the hat-trick delivery. Badree slipped in a googly and completely outfoxed Rohit with the ball going through his defences to crash on the stumps. Badree had taken three in three – the 15th time it has happened in IPL history and first time this season. The West Indian finished with four wickets – one off his final delivery, removing in-form Nitish Rana for 11. His figures? 4-1-9-4!
 
 
 When Pollard came to bat, Badree had just taken a hat-trick with the scorecard reading 7/4. That became 33/5 with Rana also departing. The equation read 110 runs from 72 balls. For company, Pollard had Krunal Pandya. The duo began sensibly. Seeing out their first two overs together. Krunal smacked Yuzvendra Chahal off the final delivery of the 10th over for a six to signal change in intentions. A boundary or two regularly kept the scoreboard running. The turning point came in the 16th over in which MI scored 19 runs. The bowler was Pawan Negi and Mumbai needed 52 more from 30 balls. Pollard deposited the final two deliveries over the ropes - the first one to go past 50 runs. Krunal was playing the perfect sidekick, contributing with boundaries of his own to keep the pressure off Pollard. With the situation getting tighter, RCB fielders began committing mistakes – one from Tymal Mills allowing Krunal a four. Meanwhile, Pollard larruped Chahal for his fifth six and then holed out to De Villiers for 47-ball 70. But he had done the job leaving it for the Pandya brothers to complete the formality. Hardik Pandya hit the winning six to secure Mumbai their third victory on the trot. 
 
