The TV audience would definitely remember the singing talent,  , who managed to emerge as the winner in two reality shows.

 Merin recently bagged the song Nokki Nokki from Jomonte Suviseshangal, composed by Vidyasagar, and she is totally elated about singing it. Kochi Times talks to the young bundle of talent about her musical endeavours, inspiration and more.
 
 
 
 I have been singing since I was three. My parents found that I had an inclination towards music and they ensure that they gave me the right training although we were in Saudi Arabia. When I was in Class 8, I became part of the reality show Little Masters and became the winner. A lot of people we knew suggested that I should stay back in Kerala if I wanted to pursue a career in singing. 
 
 When I was studying in Class 12, I was part of Star Singer Season 6. I was fortunate enough to win again, and it was post the programme that I got more clarity as to what I should do in life. After my maiden performance as a playback singer in the film Romans with the song Kuyil Paadi, composed by M Jayachandran, I have performed in many shows and sung in many albums and devotional songs. 
 
 
 
 One day I got a call from Vidyasagar ji, and I was asked to reach Chennai the next day itself. We couldn't get any tickets for our travel at such short notice and so we drove all the way to the city by car. I was very tired after the journey and Vidyasagar ji was kind enough to ask me to take rest for a day. However, before leaving he made me listen to the harmonium version of the song. He then asked me to record it on my phone and listen to it on a loop, and then come prepared.
 
 Frankly speaking I was totally nervous and when I sang, all that came out was a breath of air. I was allowed to take my own good time, and then, it all went well after that. Sir was very particular about what he wanted from me, and I sang and sang until I got it right. But all said and done, I did not have the slightest clue that the song I had just sung was for a project like Jomonte Suviseshangal, and neither did I have the guts to ask him for which film I was actually singing. I got a call from his manager on September asking details about my name, and it was in November that I actually got to know that the song was for a Sathyan Anthikkad-Dulquer Salmaan film. It felt as if I had won a bumper ticket!
 
 
 
 The song has a playful undertone, and is very catchy. I think its lines are its speciality. However, I never expected such a warm reception for the song, from all over. While I got compliments from many people such as singers Anoop Sankar, Nikhil Mathew, and even actor Indrajith, the loveliest one of them all came through the video of a cute little kid, who had done an action song on the same, and posted it online.
 
 
 
 I grew up listening to the songs of Lata ji and Susheela ji. Their songs are like an encyclopedia for the younger crop of singers, and whichever song is given to you, their melodies will always serve as a reference point. I am no one to talk about them, with regard to their finesse, but I would like to say that the perfection with which Shreya performs is such that no one can match her clarity and accent. On the whole, she is very inspirational. 
 
  
 
 I have a few shows to perform next. Also, I will be getting married in May. I will also be singing for a Malayalam film, the details of which can be divulged only at a later date.
 
