TRICHY: The   level has been soaring by the day in the past few days causing severe inconvenience to Trichy residents and throwing enough hints of what lay in store in the months ahead. In fact, data from the Indian meteorological department ( ) Chennai shows that the district located in the central part of the state has witnessed an increase of 5 degree Celsius in just four days.

 The temperature which hit a maximum of 34 degree Celsius and minimum of 24 degree Celsius on March 16 rose to maximum of 38 and minimum of 26 degree Celsius on Monday. In fact, there was a steady increase to 35 degree maximum and 25 degree minimum on March 17. In the next two days, the temperature touched 36 degree and 37 degree Celsius maximum respectively. The sudden rise in mercury has caused enough discomfort to Trichiites who have been enjoying some comfort from the low pressure in the   to the south west of  . 
 
 The meteorological department said, “The temperature has been gradually increasing after a few days of rainfall here. Being a tropical region, Trichy will witness such increase in temperature due to the striking of the sun’s rays vertically at the equator which is a regular phenomenon,” meteorologist S Devadoss at Trichy international airport told TOI. 
 
 While ruling out the possibilities of rainfall this summer, Devadoss however hinted at a likely thunderstorm. At the peak of the summer in April 2016, temperatures had risen to 42 degree Celsius in the district. At the ongoing pace, the temperature is likely to cross such a level in April and May. Temperatures had even touched 39 and 40 degrees in March in the previous years. In March last year, the highest temperature rose to 40.1 degree Celsius.
 
 A geologist of   university in Thanjavur termed the increased a significant one and a consequence of global as well as local causes. “Apart from global warming, local issues like less number of trees add to the woes. Hence the augmenting of green cover is necessary to reduce the heat level,” said assistant professor of department of civil engineering at SASTRA university, Thanjavur Dr R Selvakumar. 
 
