Mumbai: The Central Board of Secondary Education has decided to withdraw the provisional   of Borivli’s Matushri Kashiben Vrajlal Valia International Vidyalaya (MKVVIV), putting a question mark over the future of more than 2,500 students. The school and parents of students are already fighting it out in the   over the school’s decision to shift from   West to the East.

 In an order dated September 9, CBSE’s affiliation department said several irregularities were found during a physical inspection of the school premises. “The school management is running three educational institute in one building which is divided between Matushri Kashiben Vrajlal Valia International Vidyalaya, Matushree Pushpaben Vinubhai Valia College of Commerce and R C Patel High School. The school management totally disregarded the infrastructure, safety and sanitation of the school. There are unsafe partitions in the classrooms and in the corridors and it also has old construction, which is unsafe for students of the school,” read the order.
 
 The board had issued a showcause notice to the school following the first inspection and found the school’s reply unsatisfactory. Thereafter, it scheduled another visit on June 16. During the second inspection, the board’s committee found that the school ran two shifts without permission and that there wasn’t a single teacher in the four sections of classes XI and XII on the day of the inspection.
 
 “…the board has decided to withdraw the provisional affiliation of secondary and senior secondary school examination of the school with immediate effect and directed not to run any class as per the   pattern or use the name of CBSE in any manner from the academic session commencing wef 01.04.2018..,” said the board’s order. Students of classes IX to XII will be allowed to appear for the board examinations.
 
 Jayesh Yagnik, secretary of the Borivali Education Society that runs the school, refused to comment on the issue. “The court will hear the case tomorrow (Friday) and since it is sub judice, we would not want to speak about it,” he said.
 
 Parents alleged that the school’s wrongdoings had left them in trouble. “How are more than 2,500 students supposed to find another school? The school only sent us a WhatsApp message informing us about the deaffiliation. Their message said they will work ‘positively’ to get it back. However, there seems to be a vested interest in wanting to vacate this plot,” said one. 
 
 The parents will raise the issue in the high court on Friday.
 
