Why do airports need to be so crowded always?” asked Kolkata-based guitar player   over the phone as he scanned the visitor’s lounge of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose International Airport. His hurried voice denoted both annoyance and urgency. It was April 3 and Dey, one of the organisers of the recently concluded Twin City Festival in the City of Joy, was at the airport to see off someone he describes as a “super musician” — the festival’s star attraction the night before.

 “He is flying to Delhi today. You should listen to his last album, New Dance. It just blew me away. There is certain lucidity in the way he approaches the instrument,” he said, before abruptly disconnecting the call.
  
 The “super musician” Dey was referring to is New York-based Israeli jazz artiste  , who has been touted by many around the world as the rising star of jazz guitar. The jazz virtuoso got a chance to visit India last January when a prestigious institute invited him to be their guest faculty. And   made good use of that opportunity and launched a six-city tour of the country which kicked off in Auroville. 
 
 After gathering accolades with delightful performances in Auroville, Puducherry, Bengaluru, Kolkata and Delhi, Sivan with his trio, comprising Mexican drummer and vocalist   and Puducherry-based French bass player  , is all set to “jazz up” things in Hyderabad today. before his maiden concert in the city, the For Emotional Use Only star spoke to us about why jazz’s popularity is shrinking, how heartbreak shaped his upcoming album and more... Excerpts.
 
 You have been praised by many as the rising star of jazz, who has it in him to transform the scene for good. Though flattering, do such praises also escalate the pressure to live up to expectations?
 It feels good to get positive feedback from people. But I don’t let such things get into my head. My music comes first and I am trying to focus my entire energy and thoughts on making it better every second. Sometimes, praises can feed pressure but I see it as a good thing — it makes me try harder and inspires me to do the best I can. 
 
 Tell us about your upcoming album Antidote...
 It is a product of the heartbreak I experienced when my girlfriend of more than seven years unexpectedly ended our relationship. It comprises of the songs I wrote over the years as I continued to cope and learned to love again. They represent different phases of my journey so far.
 
 When did you first think of picking up the guitar? Is playing jazz a choice or simply fate?
 I always wanted to play the guitar. However, it wasn’t until my ninth birthday when my parents employed a guitar tutor for me, that I actually got to do it. I vividly remember hearing jazz for the first time and I said to myself, ‘I don’t understand this world at all, but I want to be a part of it!’
 
 Tell us about your initial years in college as a student of music. How different was it than studying more conventional 
 subjects?
 I went to   in Israel to study Classical Composition, thinking learning music from its roots would be a good idea. I also took up jazz simultaneously while I was on the classical programme and devoted a lot of time to it. After graduating from Tel Aviv, I moved to NYC to study jazz at the New School for Jazz. There I was exposed to jazz in the true sense of it. And to have so many good musicians around you was an inspiring experience.
 
 Jazz is a niche musical genre with a dedicated community of loyalists. Why do you think the genre doesn’t appeal to commoners or people without musical know-how?
 Jazz is somewhat of a private language. And in order to enjoy it, you need to listen with multiple points of references. Of course, not every jazz style, but a lot of it. I think the onus of attracting more and more people to jazz is on us, the musicians. And I would love to be called a musician, rather than a jazz artiste. I wish to create music that will inspire people from a wider spectrum and not just jazz heads.
 
 What are your influences?
 The key is to listen to a lot of different music and try and incorporate elements into your genre of choice. I’m from a jazz background but love Indian classical, rock, folk and anything that sounds good. That ‘good’ can be anything but needs to be appealing. 
 
