Nagpur: Lord Krishna told Bhagwad Gita to Arjuna on the battlefield of Kurukshetra as the third Pandava was in a dilemma over fighting with his kith and kin. By doing so, the lord taught the mankind how to lead a meaningful life in the wake of adversities, said Shrikant Patil, a writer and researcher, on Tuesday.

 There are many incidents in Mahabharata which showed the character of Lord Krishna. He was a great warrior and strategist who won many a battle. But in Kurukshetra, he led the Pandavas to victory without touching a weapon, showing in the process his planning and political acumen, Patil said. He was delivering a lecture on ‘Shrikrishna: Ganadhish ani Gunadhish’ organized by CP and Berar Education Society in memory of Gajanan Deo, at Tulsibagh. 
 
 Since the times of Mahabharata, Krishna’s life has been a guiding light for people and the values he stood for are ideal for all to follow, Patil said. The tenets of Gita, as told by Krishna, are applicable to all, may they be pacifists or fighters, a king or his citizens. Even Indian freedom fighters have gained much from Krishna’s teachings, Patil said. Bhagwad Gita has guidelines for everyone as it connects a person with his ‘dharma’, he added. 
 
 In the battlefield, the purpose of Lord Krishna telling Bhagwad Gita was to convince Arjuna that he was not fighting against his near and dear, but against those who were tyrants. The Kauravas had flatly refused to give Pandavas their due share in power. This struck a discordant note and there was no alternative for the Pandavas to fight it out for their share in the ‘rajya’, Patil said.
 
 Talking about the incarnation of Lord Vishnu, the writer said, “Shrikrishna was born as sins on Earth had overpowered virtues. Therefore, the lord was born to uplift the good and virtuous people and destroy the evil.”
 
 At the outset, a song wan presented by Vishakha Mangde. Former major general Achyut Deo, Milind Barahate, Dattatray Barahate and Sudhakar Deo were present. The programme was conducted by Vibha Kshirsagar. 
 
 
