In times of social media, glossy magazine covers, wellness and holistic weight loss rejuvenation centers, showbiz too has a stereotypical definition for physical beauty when it comes to lead actors -thin's in. For big bodied actors, who've endured the physical experience of being “othered“ and fatshamed for years, being a butt of jokes about their bodies at the expense of themselves (in daily soaps and comedy shows), and forced into doing roles bereft of any sexuality or empowerment was a given until recently. In a refreshing turn of events, some plus-size Tellywood actors have started to rewrite the rules of the quintessential standards (of physical appearance) set for actors, and have managed to strike a chord with audiences. With Hindi serials taking small but serials taking small but bold steps of casting overweight actors, it might be a significant step in showing that bigger is actually better!
 
  It'   &   in  
  
  It's high time we stop stereotyping reotyping and body shaming overweight people. It's pivotal to bring more relatable characters on screen. As the artists and showmakers we have power to change common per ceptions and bring in new stories that everyone can easily connect with - Meherzan Mazda
  
  The audience might not be ready to see overweight leads, but there are showmakers making the efforts. This will help us to break the set stereotypes and give audiences stories about people just like them. - Anjali Anand
  
  Is the audience ready for this change?
  
  For years TV's lead protagonists have always been picture-perfect well-toned leads who've looked like they've stepped out of mag covers. Showmakers who've roped in plus-size actors to play lead roles in prime time Hindi soaps on top GECs are now trying to bring in a slice of reality on TV . Sandiip Sikcand, producer and creator of the upcoming show, Dhhai Kilo Prem, where both lead protagonists are overweight puts it this way, “The audience is never going to be ready, unless we make them ready . As showmakers we have to show them something new and relatable, with which they can make an instant connect. We should break this cliché and show more real characters as leads on TV .“
  
  Actor Samiksha Jaiswal, says, “I started out as this plump character, and I think it really helped me in striking a chord with the audience, as they too want to see normal people with similar set of issues like them. Slowly , the audiences are opening up to seeing plump leads.“
  
  The 'S' factor
  
  For an actor or showmaker, nothing haunts them than the fear of being stereotyped or getting typecast. And it's a given that for years overweight actors and characters were only used as comic relief or shown as the fat sisterbrotherfriend of the leads only interested in eating and cribbing about a sad life. Sandiip adds, “As a showmaker whenever we show something new a little scepticism creeps in. But with Dhhai... it was mostly about audiences accepting and loving the characters, as we're always sure about the story line and concept."
  
  
 
  
  However for actor Meherzan Mazda, who put on 15 kilos to look the part for his show adds, “Of course the fear of being typecast is always there, but more than that I was a little nervous for two things, firstly how will I ever lose all the weight and secondly what if I lose out on some meaty roles in the future? But, it's time that we show men as real and not the knight in shining armour rescuing the damsel. So now there no more moments of doubt for me.“
  
  Touch for ladies
  
  For a plump female actor to break into showbiz is tough.“It's very tough for women to shatter the myths about beauty and figure,“ opines actress Nehalaxmi Iyer, who's playing Soumya in Ishqbaaaz. She adds, “As plump woman we do have to work doubly hard, because we have been conditioned since our childhood to appreciate beauty in certain forms.“ Akshaya Naik who's doing Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai and The Big F , says, “There's no doubt that it's tough for overweight women. I once succumbed to the advices that came my way to lose weight. But then I decided to work on my acting skills and let my `body' of work do the talking. Agrees, actor Rytasha Rathore of Badho Bahu, “As actors we know that overweight characters and actors get stereotyped. But I have always been sure that I would carve my own path and will only do roles if they were meaty, even if those roles were second lead. It is time than every actor no matter what size or shape should be given his her due.“
  
  If these Hindi shows about real people with not so perfect sizes and shapes can find an instant connect with audiences and garner massive TRPs, big will eventually be bountiful for soapmakers and GECs.
  
  
 
