NAGPUR: In yet another gaffe from the   (NU), hundreds of BBA students were left in the lurch after their examination centre was suddenly changed on Tuesday. When they reached the centre,   (IOS), allotted by NU, they were shocked to find their roll numbers missing from the examinees’ list.

 It was only when the centre officials contacted NU that they conveyed about the change in centre of these aggrieved students. IOS officials somehow allowed them to appear in the second year examination of old course. However, the chaos consumed about 30-45 precious minutes.
 
 The centre officials didn’t grant extra time and asked them to hand over answer sheets after stipulated hours.
 
 It was only after aggrieved students and colleges approached the NU examination section officials, infamous for their apathy and inefficiency, they generated new hall tickets, albeit online, and shifted their centre to   at Dighori, which is far away from IOS.
 
 Surprisingly, director of  , Neeraj Khaty expressed ignorance about the blunder. He then admitted that some colleges approached the exam section on Tuesday evening.
 
 He, however, passed the buck on college management and students for filing wrong information that led to the chaos. “The confusion was created due to old and new courses. Their exams are being conducted through yearly and semester pattern, respectively. The students filled up wrong information in the exam forms that resulted in them getting IOS as centre,” he said.
 
 He added that the college authorities failed to read second mail of cancellation of first centre. “Mistakes do happen in this big set up where we need to conduct thousands of exams. This time, it’s over 1,200. But when we realized the errors, we immediately rectified it and sent another mail of change in centre. It’s completely their fault. NU has no role to play in it,” Khaty told TOI.
 
 The college managements have denied Khaty’s charges stating that it may had happened with single institute, not all of them could wrongly filled up forms. “The students who were harassed hailed from several colleges. The exam forms are being filled up online and were scrutinized by NU. Why didn’t they rectify the mistakes there only?” a college official asked.
 
 Students claimed that due to the chaos, they had a harried time which was reflected in the paper. “Our papers were affected and NU refused to grant us extra time. Why we should suffer due to continuous goof ups by the NU? Even if it was the colleges’ fault, they should be punished instead of students,” they said.
 
