BENGALURU: 
 

 
 
 All agitations in the state are inspired by Ambedkar. There cannot be agitations without Ambedkar. I've also come from the chaluvali background. All those who started Dalit chaluvali movement are my friends.Ahinda is not new, it was spoken about since the time of Pampa, Kanakadasa and  . After Ambedkar spoke about marginalized classes, there was more awareness. I was ridiculed for presenting Ahinda budgets, but I took it as a compliment and wasn't embarrassed. The Ahinda movement has to be strengthened to reduce youngsters from being lured by the   and Hindutva groups. We have done a lot for economic empowerment of Dalit youth, we will speak more about them and will work on new strategies.
 
 
 
 These groups are only misleading youngsters from the Dalit community and backward classes. This is what's happening in Dakshina Kan nada. Communal elements provoke these youngsters, push them into violence and send them to jail. When these youngsters come out of jail, they are garlanded, taken out in processions and made heroes. What these youngsters don't realize is that they have been made scapegoats. We'll take action against those who foment communal trouble.
 
 
 There has been no major com munal violence in the coastal region after we came to power.While a majority of people in Dakshina Kannada are peaceloving, the BJP and Hindutva forces are turning it into a communal lab. In the 2013 polls, we won seven out of the eight assembly segments. We would not have won if people there were not peace loving.
 
 
 Caste has been a major impediment for social growth and equality. Caste has to go; it cannot be done through rhetoric. Basavanna spoke the same 800 years ago but people continue to ask about each other's caste even now. Economic and political empowerment are the tools for upliftment, we should bring relationships among castes. If there is equality among castes, the caste system will end. In my last five budgets, I have attempted to politically and economically empower the poor.
 
 
 I'm aware of the issue. If you analyse my five budgets, you will realize I have not differentiated the beneficiaries on the basis of caste. My political rivals make such claims. It's a conspiracy by communal elements, they can't tolerate what we are doing towards economic empowerment of the Dalits and so indulge in distortion.
 
 
 The caste census had stopped in 1931 and it did not happen in independent India. Policy decisions continued to be made on the basis of sample surveys. Caste is a reality and we need to have definite information.
 
