BAREILLY: Muzahid Hasan, the Congress candidate from Cantonment constituency in Bareilly, said on Friday that it was for the first time in 30 years that "all castes in the Muslim community were united as they went to vote in the UP polls". He said it was their “biggest achievement”. Hasan said he had "inputs" from the ground that this had happened and that the exit polls which gave BJP a lion's share of the votes were off the mark.
 
  “In our community, it has been a trend in every election fought so far that it's been Ansaris versus others (Muslims). This is the first time in 30 years that Muslims were completely united and voted as one."
  
  Hasan rubbished the exit polls and claimed that the SP-Congress alliance will form the government. “Nowadays it has become very tough to know the pattern of voting as voters remain silent. Previous exit polls have gone wrong precisely for this reason. I am very confident that this time, too, results will be different from what the exit polls suggest,” he said.
  
  Asked why then was SP chief Akhilesh Yadav saying he was ready to join hands with anyone to stop the BJP, Hasan said, “What he was saying is that all options are open as should be. But the fact is that our alliance is going to form the government."
  
  An officer with the local intelligence unit (LIU) said, “On the Cantt seat, total Muslim voters are around 1.12 lakh and 53% of them exercised their franchise, which comes to some 60,000. Though the SP-Congress alliance got a big chunk of this, the BSP hasn't fared too badly, especially getting Ansari votes. And they have the maximum numbers.”
  
  Intikab Ali, who runs a surma shop in the old city, said, “It is right that the SP-Congress alliance has polled a high number of Muslim votes. The reason is not the candidate but the   which had an alliance with the Congress.”
  
  Hasan claimed that Hindu voters, too, voted for him in large number. “I got a good number of votes in Hindu dominated localities like Maninath, Subhashnagar and Civil Lines. People from both communities voted for me leaving caste and faith behind,” he added.
