The historic   is all set to undergo a makeover now. One of the heritage sites, KP ground will soon have all the hallmarks of a youngsters’ favourite adda, with a cycling track, jogging lane and an  . Here are the details of the big transformation…
Architect  , who is working the makeover, shares, “We will create a mud track for the walkers and there will be a lot of trees planted all around the park. Also, there will be a facility of three base parking for people to park their vehicles. The idea is to renovate the place in such a way that it beckons the youngsters and young at heart. However, the heritage structure inside KP will not be tampered with. Instead, it will be lit up beautifully. Youngsters can continue to play football here, which is an old tradition associated with the place.”
 A happening hang out destination in the making, Kasturchand Park will also have an open theatre, informs Mokha and adds, “There will be a 120x40 ft projector screen for people to watch sports tournaments as a community. Another addition will be a bandstand; and every Saturday and Sunday, cops’ bands will practise and perform here.”
 Needless to say, the news of the makeover has brought immense joy to the city youngsters. Engineering graduate Oshin Simon says, “I’m eagerly looking forward to the open theatre. Also, as KP is just a 15 minute drive from my place, I will go there for morning and evening walks now.” Science student Vaibhav Agre, who plays cricket and football at KP on Sundays, says, “I’m really excited. Due to many exhibitions and other commercial events that were being organised at KP regularly, we were not able to play there. Now, with a facelift, we will have an exclusive space for sports.” 
 There is happiness in NMC commissioner Ashwin Mudgal’s voice as he shares, “I want the process to begin as soon as possible. With jogging and cycling tracks and other features, I’m sure Kasturchand Park will become the centre of attraction in the city. A lot of youngsters will be happy with this new development.”
 
