BENGALURU: Over two years ago, 19-year-old Arpita Janardhan was mowed down by a tanker zooming down the elevated expressway at   Junction. The incident triggered massive protests. However, public wrath has done little to change the situation on Bengaluru’s roads. Two months ago, 80-year-old B Krishna from Jeevan Bima Nagar was crossing a thoroughfare when a speeding ambulance carrying a dead body ran over his foot, necessitating amputation of his toes.

 Overspeeding is one of the leading causes of accidents across the world. With one in three deaths attributed to overspeeding in high-income countries, the   ( ) has sought to focus on the menace with its Save Life #Slow Down campaign.
 
  seems to fare no better. Till April 30 this year, traffic police had registered 38,131 cases of overspeeding vehicles. According to traffic police data, 1,35,527 such cases were booked in 2015 and 1,09,769 in 2016. Accident data report of the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) for 2015 said about 44% of the 64,633 road fatalities in India were due to overspeeding. 
 
 Dr Girish Narayan from the emergency medicine department of St John’s Medical College and Hospital said they get about 20 cases of accidents caused by overspeeding every day. He organized an awareness programme last week to spread the WHO message, as part of which students conducted a flash mob, interacted with spectators and road users and asked members of the public to pledge to drive slow and save lives. 
 
 Bengaluru’s overspeeding problem is puzzling, given the perennial traffic congestion and deplorable condition of roads. Typically, people tend to overspeed to overtake the vehicle in front or when there’s less traffic/more road space. The braking distance is very less by the time the driver sees any obstruction on the road or another vehicle or pedestrian coming in his/her way, resulting in injuries that get graver as the distance reduces. 
 
 “The tendency to overtake vehicles is the highest among two-wheeler riders. Pedestrians are most vulnerable. Cabbies too tend to overspeed when traffic is thin or while driving on highways. The higher the vehicle speed, the greater the impact. Every day, we get about 40 accident cases of which 20 are from Bengaluru. People commonly lose their limbs in such accidents. It’s even worse when the deceased are the sole breadwinners of their families,” said Dr Girish.
 
 Hosmat hospital too witnesses three or four fatalities every day due to overspeeding. Dr Ajith Benedict, director of the hospital, said, “On an average, we get 15 patients involved in accidents due to overspeeding every day. Mostly, pedestrians get hit by motorists or two-wheelers riders skid and fall and injure themselves after braking at shorter distances."
 
 
