BHOPAL: After a series of blunders in the countdown, the Asian School   Championship began on a sour note at   stadium on Monday when the Chinese team was handed a ‘faulty’ flag at the inauguration. They refused to march with it, pointing out that it had the iconic five stars only on one side.

 The Chinese team went back and got a flag of their own to hold aloft during the march past of the teams. Embarrassing scenes were witnessed when a Chinese official tried to explain to a   organizer why they couldn’t use the flag.
 
 The state school education department is organizing the tournament. When TOI asked officials about the flag faux pas, they denied any such thing happened. But then TOI pointed out that the ‘faulty’ flag was still fluttering behind them. It turns out that when the Chinese team refused to accept the flag, someone took it back and planted it on thefdirec stadium — in full view of everyone, including the Chinese athletes.
 
 Not surprisingly, no member of the Chinese team was willing to comment on the issue. And the school education department insisted that there was no goof-up. “The Chinese team brought their flag, and wanted to carry it during the march past,” said deputy director, school education, Alok Khare.
 
 But the running around and glum faces as the Chinese team pointed out the mistake told a different story.
 
 That wasn’t the only goof-up of the day. The department forgot to formally announce the opening of the tournament, and jumped into administering the oath. “Ideally, the opening is done first, and then the players are administered oath,” said a senior official, adding that such mistakes should have been avoided.
 
 Of the eight teams, only seven could reach the stadium. The UAE team was missing as sources said they were held up by visa issues. Khare said the team is likely to land on Tuesday. “According to our information, the UAE team could not reach because a couple of members faced visa issues,” he said.
 
 The cultural programme, presented by school students, brightened up the evening. Minister was among those present on the occasion. 
 
 Matches will be played from Tuesday. The tournament has been dogged by controversy, beginning with the tattered turf and shoddy kits, When education minister Vijay Shah was asked about the torn turf, he suggested a great Indian jugaad — "silwa lenge (we'll stitch it)," he said. 
 
 
