PATNA: Deputy CM   on Saturday directed the   ( ) officials to complete the works on duplex bungalows for MLCs near R-Block and   on Bailey Road by year-end.

 As minister in-charge of BCD, Tejashwi reviewed the ongoing mega building projects of the department in the state capital and also asked officials to complete works on Samrat Ashok Convention Centre and Bihar Museum without any further delay.
 
 The convention centre located at north Gandhi Maidan is slated to be inaugurated on April 11 with an international conference to mark the commencement of yearlong Champaran Satyagrah centenary celebrations. Two out of the six galleries — orientation and children gallery — in Bihar Museum were opened in August, 2015, while the remaining four are expected to be opened by October this year.
 
 Besides, the BCD is expected to commence works on the ambitious real estate projects at Gardanibagh staff quarters in fiscal 2017-18. The project envisages development of modern government residential complexes on 290 acres of land. The residual land would be suitably developed for commercial and institutional purposes. Sources said out of the 290 acres of land, about 210 acre is already available for redevelopment.
 
 “The master plan for Gardanibagh project has been prepared and it will be reviewed in April, following which a proposal shall be sent to state cabinet for its approval to seek funds. The master plan envisages development of multistorey building and houses for senior government officials, judges, class III and IV staff and commercial establishments like shopping malls,” said a senior BCD official.
 
 Gardanibagh apart, the official said work on four out of seven blocks of the MLC’s duplex bungalows near R-Block have been constructed up to ceiling level and the remaining three blocks up to plinth level.
 
 The Vidhayak Awasan project entailing funds to the tune of Rs450.32 crore envisages development of modern government residential bungalows over an area of 69.85 acre spread in three adjoining locations — R-Block (39.63 acre), Daroga Prasad Rai Path (23.25 acre) and Birchand Patel Path (5.97 acre).
 
 The bungalows at R-Block Colony would accommodate all MLCs of the state and the two other colonies would accommodate all the MLAs. The R-Block Colony would have 175 duplex bungalows while that on Daroga Prasad Rai Path would have 128 and Birchand Patel Path colony would have 28 bungalows.
 
 With regard to Bihar Police Bhawan, BCD officials informed Tejashwi that a rooftop helipad is proposed for which an already constructed dome over the main block is required to be demolished. “The deputy CM asked the officials to send a proposal to home department for demolishing the dome to pave way for construction of the helipad,” the official said.
 
