MUMBAI:   is all set to launch an effort to bring in total   in the process of redevelopment of slums in view of large-scale irregularities, rampant corruption and the builder-bureaucrat nexus in the   ( ). The effort will focus on moving major procedures online.

 Fadnavis told TOI he will “revamp SRA 's procedures, end corruption and bring in complete transparency in approval of SRA projects as well as slumdwellers.“
 
 A high-ranking bureaucrat told TOI major changes in the Maharashtra Slum Areas Act, 1971, the identification and verification of slumdwellers and the procedure for approval of schemes are on the cards to ensure tenements are allotted in a time-bound manner.
 
 A month after Fadnavis to ok over the state's reins in October 2014, in his capacity as SRA chairman, he had taken a review of SRA projects and found SRA 's performance was dismal owing to irregularities, red-tape and failure to achieve targets.
 
 The bureaucrat said since it has been found that maximum corruption and irregularities took place in selection of beneficiaries, it has now been proposed that the entire process should be online so there will be minimum human interface and less scope for manipulation. “We are in the process of developing a software in coordination with BMC for identification and verification of slumdwellers. We expect to complete the exercise early . Once that is over, whether a slumdweller is eligible for a tenement will be decided on the basis of his Aadhar card and if his name exists in the electoral register,“ he said.
 
 The bureaucrat said it has been proposed to mobilize data on Aadhar, electricity bills, property tax, electoral register, ration card and telephone bill.“We have asked SRA to develop a strong database so that verification of information under Annexure-II will be quick and accurate and there will be an end to manual checking of eligible slumdwellers,“ he said.
 
 The developer will have to submit online his entire plan, along with Annexure-II, the complete list of eligible slum dwellers. “On the basis of Aadhar information and electoral register, the software will decide if the slumdweller is eligible.If the name is rejected, there is no scope for him to secure a tenement. The competent authority will have to take a decision on Annexure-II within 90 days of receipt of online application,“ he said.
 
 Further, the bureaucrat sa id it has been proposed to bring SRA under the Right to Guarantee of Services Act, so that aggrieved slumdwellers can approach the competent authority for redressal of grievances.
 
 The SRA website says so far it has issued letters of intent for 1,404 schemes for construction of 4.71 lakh tenements, out of which 2.26 lakh tenements are under construction and 1.62 lakh tenements have been handed over to slumdwellers On July 13, SRA set up 4member committee to scrutinize decisions on 137 files taken by its ex-CEO in June this year.
 
