NAGPUR: Nagpur University administration continued to delay action against alleged accused in revaluation/retotalling scam, assistant registrar (Revaluation) Sandhya Chunodkar-Handa.

 Even after clarification by advocate General Rohit Deo that pro-VC Pramod Yeole decide on punishment to be meted out to her, following her alleged involvement in the scam, which was confirmed by departmental enquiry (DE) report.
 
 The DE was conducted by lawyer  , who submitted report to VC on June 8, 2015, two and half years after probe started.
 
 Earlier, her involvement in the scam, where over 200 engineering students, including her son, were believed to be alleged beneficiaries, was confirmed by Disciplinary Action Committee (DAC) led by Eknath Kathale.
 
 “Though I read in the media about AG entrusting task to me, I am yet to receive the report from VC’ office. I will again have to go through report for deciding on future course of action. I can only assure that everything will have to be as per merit,” Yeole told TOI.
 
 VC SP Kane however refused to pick up TOI’s calls for his comments.
 
 NU officials termed it as yet another attempt from the NU top brass to delay punishment to be meted out to her, after TOI first exposed the scam allegedly involving her, on July 8, 2012. They claimed that both VC and pro-VC are under tremendous pressure from the politicians in Nagpur and Mumbai, as the accused had allegedly got strong contacts. 
 
 Interestingly, same Kane and Yeole rushed to lodge a police complaint against ex-management councillor   for allegedly uploading objectionable posts against NU administration on WhatsApp group, but delaying the same in Handa’s case, which was just like Kohchade scam.
 
 Officials said only after lodging FIR against Handa that many other accused and beneficiary students could be caught. They confirmed that there was a recommendation to lodge FIR to go into the roots of the scam by the enquiry panel. The panel found her guilty of committing malpractices and misusing her powers of assistant registrar by increasing marks of re-totalling and reassessment of her son and others through unfair means.
 
