NAGPUR: On Friday afternoon, for the first time, Pre-IAS Academy, Buldi, organized a santoor recital on its premises for its students in collaboration with   (Society for the Promotion of Indian Classical   And Culture Amongst Youth). 

 “Introducing students to classical music is necessary because it not only persuades them to take interest in art and culture, it also works as a therapy. Along with studies, it is also vital that they take interest in our heritage,” said secretary of Pre-IAS academy Pramod Lakhe. 
 
 The students listened in rapt silence and attention as Pune-based Pandit Dhananjay Daithankar, a disciple of maestro Shivkumar Sharma, played raag Madhuvanti. He was accompanied on tabla by Ajinkya Joshi, a disciple of Suresh Talwalkar. The duo played teentaal, jhaptaal, madhyalaya and dhrut in ten matras. Daithankar also shared basic information about santoor and interacted with students after the programme. 
 
 “I have visited Nagpur for shows many times now, and I feel it is our social responsibility to nudge younger generation towards our artistic legacy. Classical music is spiritual and it can also be as entertaining as western music, if only one cultivates an interest. I am pleased that the younger generation has shown liking towards santoor,” he said.
 
 The programme was part of Spic Macay’s Virasat series where Daithankar performed at Centre Point School, Katol; VT Convent, Beltarodi; Royal Gondwana School, Shankarpur; BVM, Wathoda and Pre-IAS Coaching Institute, Buldi.
 
 From February 14 to 16, Delhi-based Bharatanatyam exponent Ragini Chandrashekhar will give performances.
 
 Spic Macay is a movement to make students aware about Indian and world heritage by organizing programmes inside school and college campuses throughout the world. Its Nagpur chapter has completed over 25 years, said secretary  . 
 
 “We want to make Indian society’s roots strong by inviting artistes from various fields. We conduct nearly 45 programmes every year and reach out to whole of Vidarbha. This is an opportunity for children to interact with artistes about instruments, art and singing,” he added. 
 
