GUWAHATI: Two in charges of exam centres were suspended in   on Tuesday for distributing 'leaked' question papers among Class X examinees of state board exams. 

 The centre heads of   (BHSS) and   (BAHS),   and Munin Das respectively, were held responsible by education authorities soon after the social science exam concluded on March 11. 
 
 About 50 Class X state board examinees from the Bodo medium appeared for the exam on the basis of question papers allegedly leaked before the previous scheduled date of the exam. Earlier, Board of Secondary Education, Assam (Seba), rescheduled the paper on March 11 after question papers of social science was mistakenly 'distributed' among examinees at a centre in Hojai district in central Assam even before the previous exam date. The exam was scheduled to be held on February 23 earlier. 
 
 "It is a case of utter negligence. The two exam centre heads, who are also the heads of their schools, distributed social science question papers that were already declared invalid. These papers were printed for the social science exam which has already been cancelled. They should have distributed the new set of question papers," said Barpeta inspector of schools (IS) Nagen Chandra Boro.
 
 He added that the incident came to light after several social science question papers were left undistributed on March 11. Though the question paper for the Bodo and Assamese medium is same, the teachers distributed the invalid question papers only among the Bodo-medium students. 
 
 Though education authorities are silent on the fate of the examinees, who appeared for the social science exam, Seba has taken a serious note of the incident. Board secretary Kamal Jyoti Gogoi has warned officials involved in exam process as error-free evaluation of answer scripts is going to be a big challenge for Seba in the coming days.
 
 "After we hand over the question papers to the centre in charges, they should keep them with utmost care. Due to reckless approach of some of the teachers, Seba has been receiving flak from the public," said Gogoi.
 
 A few days ago, Seba and the state education department faced severe criticism after wrong question papers were allegedly distributed among examinees at two examination centres in Baksa and Hojai districts of Assam during the Class X board exam. 
 
