NEW DELHI/AHMEDABAD: The drilling for soil testing on the undersea stretch of Ahmedabad-Mumbai   has begun near Thane. The 7-km undersea stretch is India’s first such construction.

 The purpose of the drilling at this stage is to check the condition of soil and rocks almost 70-metre-deep from the sea surface. It is part of the geo-technical and geo-physical studies being done for the bullet train. 
 
 Similar tests will be carried out on the 21-km-long underground tunnel between Thane and Virar. Officials of the   ( ) say these are the two critical stretches of the bullet train. 
 
 Except for the 21-km-long tunnel, Western Railway officials say that a large part of the 508-km-long corridor is proposed to be on elevated track. Hence, this part will also be fenced to prevent cattle and people from crossing over.
 
 The project will cost more than Rs 1 lakh crore by the time it is completed. Japan has agreed to fund 80% of the project through a soft loan of Rs79,000 crore. Due to the elevated corrdior, the overall project cost is likely to rise by almost Rs 10,000 crore, officials said. The train will begin from Sabarmati station in Ahmedabad, and the next few stops will be Anand, Vadodara, Bharuch, Surat, Billimora and Vapi. It will terminate at Boisar in Mumbai. 
 
 In the stretch after Thane creek towards Virar, the bullet train will run undersea, according to the detailed project report prepared by   (JICA). Incidentally, JICA is the funding agency of the project. 
 
 The choice of an elevated corridor is to avoid the need for land acquisition and building of underpasses, said railway officials. 
 
 A survey is likely to follow to mark the alignment and the exact spots for the pillars of the elevated corridor on which the train will run at high speeds.
 
 In December 2017, the railway ministry and National High-Speed Rail Corporation (HNSRC) signed a tripartite pact with JICA for the development of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad high-speed rail corridor. Construction of the corridor is expected to start in 2018 and is estimated to be completed by 2023. JICA agreed to fund 81% of the total project cost through a 50-year loan at an interest rate of 0.1% and a moratorium on repayments up to 15 years.
 
