MUMBAI: Six months before retirement, Vijay Satbir Singh applied for several post-retirement assignments, but he was surprised after he received intimation for his nomination on three posts. 

 Singh had applied for membership of   (RERA), Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission and Maharashtra Administrative Tribunal (MAT). 
 
 A week after Singh became a RERA member, the food and civil supplies department published an order that Singh has been appointed as the non-judicial member of the Consumer Redressal Commission, while his order for appointment as a MAT member has been processed and is in the pipeline. It has left the government led by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis red-faced. Singh is among the many bureaucrats who have been able to secure prestigious assignments after retirement and hold on to accommodation in south Mumbai and official vehicles. Former chief secretary Swadheen Kshatriya heads the newly set up Right to Services Commission, former additional chief secretary Gautam Kumar Chatterjee heads RERA, another former additional chief secretary K P Bakshi has been appointed chairman of the State Water Regulatory Authority. However, procedural wrangles have held up former DGP Praveen Dixit nomination as a member of MAT. 
 
 
 
 
 Buldhana zilla parishad chairperson Shweta Mahale-Patil has exposed the   over rampant irregularities in the 2008 and 2009 loan waiver schemes. Mahale-Patil highlighted that the 2008 and 2009 schemes were meant to tackle the agrarian crisis, but they benefited banks controlled by the Congress and  , rich farmers and some Congress leaders. Ashok Chavan, who led an agitation seeking complete debt write-off recently, was the chief minister then. 
 
 Mahale-Patil said under the UPA’s loan waiver plan Rs 3.11 crore was released for Buldhana district in 2008, whereas farmers in Mumbai got Rs 287 crore. While Fadnavis has pledged to write off loans to the tune of Rs 41,000 crore,   workers have been unable to capitalize on the scheme. On the contrary, the Congress-NCP combine have successfully campaigned that it may not be possible for Fadnavis to mobilize Rs 41,000 crore due to the state’s financial position. 
 
 
 
 
 IPS officer Harish Baijal is back in Mumbai, but he has been given an “insignificant” assignment. After his exit from the Food and Drug Administration, Baijal was appointed as a vigilance officer in the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC). A glance at the people, who took over as vigilance officers in the human rights commission, MSRTC, Mhada, MSEB and Cidco, it appears that the government has created these posts specially for officials who are inconvenient for the government. 
 
 In MSEB, the position of director (vigilance) was held for a long time by an additional DG-rank official, whereas in most other states, an deputy police superintendent-rank official holds the post. In a certain organization, the vigilance officer was much senior than the chief executive officer. Baijal was head of the district police training school in Nashik and before he was shifted to the FDA. But even in a “sidelined” posting, Baijal made his presence felt by exposing a drug racket. Later he was quietly shifted to SRPF in Solapur. After he did not take up his new assignment, he has been appointed in the SHRC.
 
 
