TIRUPATI: There’s one topic that’s taken centerstage at the five-day 104th Indian Science Congress here — climate change and its effect on the human health and also the environment.

 Scientists and experts, including father of the Green Revolution M S Swaminathan, discussed the impact of climate change on food productivity, pollution, temperature and rainfall, with an eye on the survival of the human species. At a plenary session on food and nutrition security on Friday, Swaminathan called upon researchers to fight the negative impact of climate change and sea level rise. He warned that climate change would throw up new challenges for agricultural productivity and food security.
 
  chairperson Dr B Meena Kumari said climate change has already affected fish production. “Climate change is causing early maturity and changing the spawning patterns in fish. The life cycle of different species of fish has changed in India,” she said, urging scientists to conduct advanced research to find out the impact of climate change on fish and also the fishing industry.
 
  director Dr V B Mathur said climate change is affecting wildlife in the Himalayas. The institute is working on strategies to mitigate the impact of climate change on wild species and ecosystems, he said. Dr R Krishnan of the   said high-resolution simulation studies of the South Asian monsoons showed increase in temperature due to global warming. 
 
 He attributed the decrease in monsoon rainfall over India during the last few decades to increased human activity, greenhouse gases, aerosols, land-use changes and equatorial Indian Ocean warming. “A 21st century climate projection using a high-resolution model suggests the possibility of persistent increase of monsoonal rains and prolongation of soil drying,” he said. 
 
 Professor R Ramesh of the   said rainfall had decreased over the last 200 years. He said proxy records could be used to reconstruct the Indian summer monsoon patterns during the Halocene period or the last 10,000 years. The proxy records were obtained from speliotherms (cave deposits of calcium carbonate), tree rings and ocean sediments. 
 
