PATNA: Chief Minister   on Monday advocated for a Bihar-like grand alliance at national level to counter the BJP in 2019 general elections and reiterated that Congress should take the lead as it is a bigger party than others. 

 “Their (BJP) victory in Uttar Pradesh was due to the absence of a Bihar-like grand alliance of secular forces. This is clearly evident as the combined vote share of Samajwadi Party, Congress and BSP was 10% more than that of the BJP. Therefore, only a Bihar-like grand alliance can check the BJP surge and it will be a big success at the national level, too,” Nitish said on the sidelines of his Lok Samvad programme.
 
 “I had talks with the Left parties in this regard and I hope they, too, will take the initiative to unseat the BJP government at the Centre in 2019 elections,” said Nitish. To a question, he said there was no dearth of leadership among the opposition parties.
 
 The   also urged the opposition forces to unite and stand over issues related to public interest. “BJP won UP elections by seeking votes in the name of development, uplift of farmers and the poor. However, all that they are doing is to give prominence to non-issues like illegal slaughterhouses and ignoring core issues like agriculture, education and development, among others,” Nitish said.
 
 He also said slaughterhouse is a non-issue in Bihar as illegal slaughtering of cattle, including cow, is prohibited in the state in pursuance of a law enacted in 1955.
 
 Speaking on the recent assembly election results in five states, Nitish said, “The Congress won the elections in Punjab and emerged as the single largest party in Manipur and Goa. Hence, it will not be correct to say that the BJP made a clean sweep. They (BJP) formed the government in Manipur and Goa by jod-tod (cobbling numbers).”
 
 Welcoming the recent   order to ban liquor sale on national highways, Nitish urged Prime Minister   to enforce total prohibition across the country. He said the ban on sale of liquor on highways is a mere “piecemeal solution” and the BJP government should either implement total prohibition in the country or at least enforce it in the BJP-ruled states.
 
 Speaking on the issue of a likely face-off between his party JD(U), RJD led by   Prasad and Congress in the upcoming Delhi municipal polls, Nitish said, “It was, in fact, decided at a meeting held on December 3 last year that everyone could contest the   elections. It should not be seen as lack of unity among the opposition parties.”
 
 The Bihar CM said he might campaign for the party candidates in the MCD polls if the JD(U) Delhi unit needed him.
 
 RJD chief Lalu Prasad has also said the unity of secular parties is the need of the hour and he would take all possible steps to ensure it. “The time has come for a strong united front of secular parties as the BJP government’s fall at the Centre is inevitable. The country may go for midterm polls. Hence, like-minded parties are required to come together. I will travel across the country to ensure a strong alliance of opposition parties,” Lalu told reporters here on Monday. 
 
