 just managed to get a miniscule 2,928 votes, barely 50 votes more than those polled for NOTA in   constituency in Chennai in the 2016 elections.The VCK candidate, fielded by the five-party  , garnered just 4,195 votes.

 If that was the case in a general election, what makes so many parties jump into the fray in a byelection, where the ruling denomination always throws the weight of government apparatus behind its candidate and wins as a norm?
 
 The BJP buoyed by success in UP and Uttarakhand wants to test waters and see if its clout has grown in the wake of political vacuum left by Jayalalithaa. So is DMDK, which wants to see where it stands after suffering a severe drubbing in the 2016 elections.
 
 While CPM always makes it a point to contest elections irrespective of its prospects, for the O Panneerselvam faction, former chief minister J Jayalalithaa's niece Deepa and to an extent AIADMK's candidate TTV Dinakaran, it is a make or break election.
 
 BJP sees the election as a very crucial pointer towards charting its future course in the state.
 
 Knowing or unknowingly, the party had fielded a dalit candidate in music com poser Gangai Amaren. R K Nagar has a sizeable dalit vote bank.
 
 If this was a strategic move, then the saffron outfit is testing waters for a possible social engineering in future.
 
 Any increase in the votes as compared to what it polled in 2016 would mean that it could continue to adopt a policy of dalit wooing.
 
 “Congress's dalit vote bank has eroded and Dravidian parties are largely seen as pampering intermediate castes. Dalit parties are also losing ground. So BJP might be attempting to create its own vote bank,'' said political analyst N Sathiyamoorthy.
 
 The DMDK too doesn't nurture ambitions of winning the bypoll, but the idea behind throwing a candidate in the fray seems to be to test waters. After the severe drubbing they received in 2016 elections as part of PWF, they appear to be using R K Nagar as a testing ground to assess where they stand.
 
 “DMDK has no choice. If they don't contest, their cadres would have to support either DMK or one of the factions of AIADMK, in which case DMDK would be written off in future,“ says  , professor of politics and public administration department, Madras University.
 
 CPM is also sticking to its convention of not shying away from elections, even if it is at the cost of driving a deep wedge in PWF.
 
 It has other reasons too ­ R K Nagar has a sizeable working class population, which it wants to tap. It was surprising though for PMK to stay out, despite a huge vanniyar presence in R K Nagar.
 
