
 
  A quack and his associate are on the run after risking a patient’s life by operating on his  , with a knife and without  . While the patient was left bleeding heavily from the back and had to undergo a corrective surgery that closed with 40 sutures, the fake doctor and his aide decamped even as the police mounted a hunt for them.
  
  On April 21, Vilas Tupane, a 39-yearold patient from Kalwa in Thane, went to   in the locality to seek treatment for his condition. He said he had heard from his neighbours that the incharge of the clinic, Ripon Kumar, claimed to be a specialist in treating piles through ayurveda.
  
  But Kumar asked him to buy some antibiotics instead. When they failed to provide him any relief, Tupane returned to the clinic the next day. After examining him, Kumar took him to a procedure room and asked him to lie down so he could place a medicine in his anal canal.
  
  “But he simply cut the haemorrhoids and it caused me severe pain,” Tupane told Mirror. “He pacified me saying everything would be all right in a little while and sent me home.”
  
  When Tupane reached home, his wife, Durga, was stunned to see he was bleeding profusely from his back. He could barely talk, and collapsed soon after. She rushed him to  .
  
  The facility’s medical officer, Dr VK Yadav, said that Tupane was brought in a critical condition: “He was semi-comatose due to excessive blood loss. We shifted him to the intensive care unit and performed a surgery to stop the bleeding and fix the botch-up.”
  
  Dr Yadav also said that while removing the haemorrhoids, Kumar ended up cutting veins, arteries and ligaments in the anal canal, possibly with an unsterilised blade, and sent him home without stitching up his back, which caused extensive damage to Tupane. Some 40 sutures were needed to close the gaping wound, Dr Yadav said.
  
  “If he had not been brought to us at the time that he was, the situation could have proved fatal for him,”Dr Yadav added.
  
  After the surgery, Kumar was put on a high dose of antibiotics to avoid a breakout of infection.
  
  Doctors at Life Care proceeded to inform the Kalwa police and the civic medical officer about the incident that went down at Laxmi clinic, and Ripon Kumar was booked in a case of medical negligence.
  
  The ensuing investigation revealed that Kumar, who had claimed to be an  , is no such thing, let alone a surgeon. After clearing Std XII, he had obtained a diploma in   and set up a clinic.
  
  Since the incident came to light, Kumar and the compounder, who has not yet been identified, have been absconding, and the clinic has remained shut.
  
  Senior police inspector M Bhagwan of Kalwa police station told Mumbai Mirror: “Our initial investigation report says that Ripon Kumar does not hold any degree in medicine. But he prescribed allopathic medicines to Tupane and operated upon him, which had a devastating effect.”
