Ghaziabad: A 27-year-old   committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan in his Brij Vihar residence in Surya Nagar on Monday evening, two days after his wife allegedly ended her life in the same house.

 Ajit Mishra, who worked with an MNC in   and was on a vacation in India, was booked on March 11 along with his family members under Section 304 B ( ) of the IPC for his wife Megha’s demise.
 
 His body was discovered by his father, who subsequently informed his entire family, and the police were called. No suicide note has been recovered by the cops from the spot. The body has been sent for an autopsy.
 
 However, the reason behind his 25-year-old wife’s death remains unclear, though her family members have accused Ajit and his family members of torture and harassment, which ultimately led to her death.
 
 “Her husband, her parents-in-law, her husband’s elder brother and his wife, and her husband’s younger brother, all of them have killed Megha for dowry,” said Gandhir Kumar (32), her maternal uncle.
 
 According to Kumar, the family received a call from Megha’s parents-in-law around 5 am on March 11.
 
 “They informed us that she had committed suicide and we should go and collect her body from Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital in Dilshad Garden,” he said.
 
 “But when we reached the hospital, the doctor told us that Megha was taken to the same hospital the previous day as well after she survived a suicide attempt,” Kumar said.
 
 He added, “The doctor told us she died of her internal injuries she sustained during the suicide attempt, when she was again brought to the hospital on March 11 after she bled profusely from her mouth. During this entire episode, they did not even inform us once and we got to know only after she died.”
 
 Police said though an FIR for dowry death has been lodged against Ajit; his parents Devinder Mishra and Leela Devi; his elder brother Sunil Mishra and his wife; and his younger brother Vinay Mishra at Link Road police station, no one has been arrested yet.
 
 “This case has become complicated now as Ajit has died. We are probing the case from all angles,” said Rojant Tyagi, SHO of Link Road police station.
 
 Megha, who was originally from Bihar, was married to Ajit for the past three years, but they did not have a child. Ajit used to visit her every six to eight months as he was working in the UAE. 
 
 Police said the couple had a strained relationship and they used to fight quite often.
 
 “Anyway, we will wait for the post-mortem reports of the couple,” a police officer told TOI.
 
 
