At 45 days, Magic is   like any other, waiting to fall in love with you the minute she sees you. Visitors to her   residence are greeted with a giant wave of excitement that belies her tiny being — she swings her lil’ butt from side to side, wags her tail vigorously, and jumps to meet you at your height. But it’s this last bit that proves to be the hardest for Magic, who was born with just two legs — her forelegs were missing at birth. she’s undaunted though. She struggles; tumbles; but eventually, props herself up on her hind legs to greet you, melting your heart just like that.
“Everytime someone new comes homes and calls out ‘Magic’, her eyes shine like this,” says her human,  , an animal activist who adopted Magic from a shelter. “when I first saw her photo shared by a volunteer who was looking for someone who could foster her, I knew that Magic was coming home... She looked so helpless and I knew that she had no chance of survival anywhere else, but here with me,” shares Shruti, hinting at the harsh reality that the disabled puppy would have been euthanised, had she not taken her in. 
 But then, it seems like Magic had defeated death right at birth. “Often, mothers kill the weaker offsprings ’cos they know they don’t have a chance at life. But Magic fought to stay alive despite being abandoned by her mother. She then continued to fight her way into the hearts of humans, both at the shelter, and here at my house. and now, she continues to win hearts of Hyderabadis who come across her story everyday,” says Shruti, referring to all the people who’ve been coming forward to help Magic live a full life. “Magic’s vet checked her and confirmed that she can move around freely with the help of a wheelchair. She is healthy enough now to take the weight of the wheelchair. But she will need at least five wheelchairs, to suit suit her growing body, through her life-span. I have started a crowdfunding campaign for her so that it becomes easier to cover the costs,” explains Shruti, adding, “So far, Hyderbadis have been quite generous. I am very hopeful that we’ll make it and give Magic the life she deserves.” 
 
