PUNE: In the late 1820s, a large part of Shaniwar wada was gutted in a mysterious fire. Though its main structure remained intact, a records department was completely damaged. It was believed to have had land and revenue records dating back to  's reign.

 Besides their historical worth, the documents that survived the blaze also came in handy for the British, who were in control of the city since 1817.
 
 Around the late 1870s, the   commissioned a new building to house these documents along with the land records the British had collected over the years in the region.Presently known as the  , it was built as Pune  . Located opposite the Council Hall in Pune Cantonment, its façade has a gothic tone.
 
 “To prevent further loss of documents, the plan was sanctioned and construc tion started in July 1877,“ an official at the Archives said. Fourteen years later, in September 1891, the building was up and running.
 
 The structure was planned in tune with British architecture. However, as the place would be stocked with documents from the Maratha Empire, regional designs were also used.
 
 As one approaches the complex through the Bund Garden Road entrance, the airy porch leads to what resembles a wada. Surrounded by the building on all four sides is an open courtyard with recently-renovated patches.
 
 But the most striking feature within the square office lies right at the centre of the courtyard.
 
 It is an 80-foot tall tower with a water tank atop, which equips the building against any fire emergencies. For drawing water from the tank, a number of articulate--now rusting--fire hydrants are used. These have various outlets fixed for connecting water pipes.
 
 The ultimate strand of protection is reserved for the record rooms. Tens of thousands of reams (rumaals) of records are safely tucked away within the three storeys of record rooms.
 
 These range from Maratha records, to ones pertaining to the British government, and of the land that is now a part of Gujarat.
 
 “We want to protect the documents from even the most unlikely source of damage. This is why, even after 125 years of existence, the record rooms are not connected to electricity , so as to avoid short circuits or even a tiny spark which may start a fire,“ said a caretaker of the archive.
 
