PATNA: Chief minister   on Thursday announced a slew of incentives for firms in IT, ITes and electronics manufacturing sectors interested in setting up their units in  . The incentives include exemption from stamp duty, registration fees and land conversion fees, tax incentives, employment cost subsidy and skill development subsidy for SC/ ST and women employees.

 “IT, ITes and electronics system design manufacturing sector would be treated as high priority sectors and would be given few incentives in addition to those existing in the Bihar Industrial investment Promotion Policy, 2016. The incentives would be provided to those units in IT, ITes and electronics manufacturing and design sectors which entail investment of more than Rs 5 crore and provide employment to more than 50 workers. We are inviting all the IT and ITeS companies to come forward and promote entrepreneurship in the state,”   said in his address as chief guest in the Bihar IT and ITeS Investors Conclave here on Thursday. 
 
 Exemption from stamp duty, registration fees and land conversion fees apart, the tax incentive talk about 100% reimbursement of state GST on the net tax payable for initial five years of production. 
 
 The skill development subsidy, on the other hand, talks about providing skill development subsidy of Rs 20,000 per employee or the corresponding rate under Bihar Skill Development Mission (BSDM), whichever is lower. The incentive will be applicable for training of employees or staff, who are domicile of Bihar and shall have to be employed for at least one year.
 
 Nitish also took a dig at Union minister of electronics and IT, law and justice Ravi Shankar Prasad on his statement in which he said one cellphone manufacturing unit would be opened soon in Bihar. “Why one, you (Ravi Shankar) are from Bihar and Union IT minister. You should get 8-10 cellphone manufacturing units opened here,” Nitish said. 
 
 He also urged Ravi Shankar to commence work on a proposed cyber security and digital forensic lab by the end of this month. 
 
 Speaking prior to Nitish, Ravi Shankar said, “The proposed cyber security and digital forensic lab would be set up with support from   (C-DAC) and IIT-Patna as knowledge partner. It would assist the state police in digital policing and forensic.”
 
 Earlier, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, who holds the portfolio of state IT minister, said, “Bihar is probably the only state in the country where 309 colleges have been provided free Wi- Fi facility. In terms of creating infrastructure, the IT department is in the process of developing an IT City at Rajgir, IT Park at Bihta and IT Tower near   in Patna.” 
 
