BASIRHAT: An uneasy calm prevailed in   on Friday as   jawans and police patrolled the tense sub-division. With wild rumours spreading from hamlet to hamlet, there was tension in pockets around Basirhat railway station and in the marketplaces of Puratanbazar, Nutanbazar and Mayerbazar. However, the worst seems to be over. The police and paramilitary personnel have virtually cordoned off the troubled zone, preventing outsiders from entering the area. 

 The hamlets and roadside shops in Basirhat town bore tell-tale scars of a confrontation they had never witnessed before. On Friday, passion was giving way to disgust, directed mostly at the administration, prompting the North 24 Parganas police to remove inspector-in-charge of Basirhat Nasim Akhtar. 
 
 “I want to know where is the administration, where is the police? They are busy saving their own lives leaving us at the mercy of fate. I can’t take my daughter to school. I can’t even leave the house alone. People with whom I have lived for the last 19 years since my marriage have suddenly turned enemies,” said Malati Das, a housewife at Kasaipara in Basirhat town.
 
 Across localities like Bhabla, Kholapota, Paschim Dandirhat and  , residents are yet to get over the trauma. Most shops in these areas remained closed even on Friday, fearing a backlash any moment. 
 
 Most residents were taken aback at the communal flare-up as the town has for long been an island of peace and harmony. 
 
 “This is close to Bangladesh and there are many porous areas in the border. People are coming from outside through different routes, particularly from Minakha and Malancha side. These men are provoking people. We are trying to plug these routes. We have asked the police to help us,” said Mubinur Rahomon, the imam of Aminia mosque said.
 
 Abul Kasim Sardar walked out of Aminia mosque in Basirhat after the Friday namaz clutching a Tricolour. It was an effort to defy the “jihadi” stigma on the entire community.
 
 With an internet ban and prohibitory orders in place, most residents are cut off from their relatives in other parts of the town or state. Those who had fled their homes have also not returned yet. “We have told the BDO, SDO and the local police station to hold peace meetings with representatives from political parties, NGOs and communities. This has not happened as yet. Even this morning, I purchased some rice and dal and gave it to the Duttas, my neighbour. They ran out of food four days ,” said ward 12 Trinamool councillor Babu Gazi.
 
