NEW DELHI: Survivors of attempted suicide will no longer have to undergo prosecution, with the Lok Sabha on Monday passing the   2016, which decriminalises suicide and provisions for right to better healthcare for people suffering from mental illness. The bill, passed by the Rajya Sabha with 134 official amendments in August last year, was passed in the lower House by voice vote as all parties supported the legislation. 

 PM Narendra Modi had spoken about mental depression in his radio broadcast, ‘Mann Ki Baat’, on Sunday, maintaining that the disease can be overcome.
 
 Union health minister J P Nadda thanked lawmakers across party lines for supporting the mental healthcare bill. While proposing the bill for passage, Nadda said in a lighter vein, “I am hopeful that all of us sitting in the House are in good mental health. If anyone has any problems, one should come forward.” 
 
 “The bill gives legal rights to individuals to seek treatment for mental illness. Moreover, it decriminalises suicide attempts and identifies the caretakers. It also curtails and punishes inhuman treatment or imprisonment to a person with persistent mental illness,” said Nadda. The minister said, “As per this law, we cannot separate a child for three years... Also, one cannot chain a mentally-ill person.” 
 
 He clarified that the aim of the legislation is to see that the patient is protected and no coercive method is adopted. 
 
 BJP MP Ashwani Kumar Choubey suggested inclusion of music therapy as one of the remedies for mental treatment. One of the features of the bill is that it allows adults to make an advance directive on how they wish to be treated in case they suffer from mental illness in future. A person can also nominate a caregiver in such a case. The bill clearly defines mental illness and mental healthcare, Nadda said, adding the earlier definition was vague. There are also provisions preventing a person from being sterilised just because he or she is a mental patient. 
 
 The bill focuses on community-based treatment. Special provisions for women and health have been provided for. Among the various objectives, it provides for ensuring healthcare, treatment and rehabilitation of people with mental illness “in a manner that doesn’t intrude on their rights and dignity.”
 
 
 
 
