SRINAGAR: The government expects   to moderate by around 2% after the launch of GST as tax incidence on several products will come down with companies passing on benefits to consumers, revenue secretary   told TOI.

 “The internal estimate is that after the fixation exercise that we have done, inflation should go down by 2%. But, this is subject to all producers passing on the benefit of downward revision,” Adhia said in a conversation after the two-day meeting of the   concluded here.
 
 The availability of input tax credit for taxes and VAT paid on goods will help ensure a lower incidence on works contracts, while services such as telecom and insurance do not see a higher burden, he added. “The main thing in this entire game is education of the consumer. The consumer should not be cheated in this process.”
 
 The top bureaucrat in the finance ministry said the government had taken special care to ensure that price of goods and services that make up the consumer price index did not rise. “The rates proposed are very, very reasonable. There is a lot of incidence of tax on cereals or commodities but still we have insisted on keeping it in the exempt list. This will help in keeping CPI under control.”
 
 With rates and most rules finalised, Adhia said only 5% of the GST Council’s work was pending, but identified training of officials and preparing trade and industry as a major challenge for the remaining 42 days for shifting to the new tax regime. The GST Council has finalised rates on most goods and services, which will help industry brace for the transition.
 
 “Every single town is being covered by officers for dissemination of information. The systems also have to be in place. CBEC’s back-end system has to connect with the front-end of GSTN and it is all being done,” he said. The beta testing of the GST Network or GSTN — the IT platform for the new regime — has thrown up some gaps, which are being fixed, Adhia said. “The purpose of beta testing was successful and we will do some more testing after improving it.”
 
 The revenue secretary also sought to quell fears of shortages in some industry segments after the GST rollout. “I don’t think (short supplies) will happen. Whether tax rates are going up or coming down, they are getting tax input credit for stocks. The transit rules are not yet finalised. They will be finalised shortly.” There are concerns of scarcity of medicines due to the current set of guidelines and chemists are advising patients to stock up drugs.
 
 Asked if small businesses and traders were ready for transition, Adhia said there is no significant compliance burden on them as those with an annual turnover of up to Rs 20 lakh are exempted. In case of those with up to Rs 50-lakh turnover, the composite schemeensured compliance is not an issue.
 
 “There is only one return to be filed once in three months. And, there also, only details of turnover are to be filed. Above Rs 50 lakh, they cannot be called small traders. But if it is only a B2C player, then invoice-wise details are not required in the returns.” Some states and industry bodies have cited the lack of readiness of small businesses to demand that GST be rolled out from September.
 
