BENGALURU: With internal squabbles in Karnataka's BJP unit threatening to singe the party's image, the central leadership on Sunday warned leaders   and Eshwarappa against washing their dirty linen in public. “The national leadership is keeping an eye on what's happening in the Karnataka unit," said BJP national general secretary (Karnataka)  , referring to the rift.

 State BJP president Yeddyurappa and opposition leader in the legislative council, Eshwarappa, are at each other's throat for several months now, leaving the party cadres demoralized. Responding to the unpleasant drama, the party bosses issued two directives to force peace on the state unit: One, no leader should align with any group other than the party; two, sort out differences at party platforms, and not under full media glare.
 
 Sources said the first directive was aimed at Eshwarappa, who has been supporting forums Sangolli Rayanna Brigade and Save the Party -both, in fact, are fronts to consolidate his position in the party and to checkmate his bête noire, Yeddyurappa. The second missive was aimed at Yeddyurappa for reportedly allowing his aides to attack rivals through the media.
 
 A senior leader, who coordinated with Rao in holding consultations with party members on Sunday , told TOI: “The infighting should not make Karnataka a difficult state to win in the 2018 assembly elections. We will give the leaders more time to resolve their differences; otherwise, a surgery becomes inevitable. The first thing is to change the public perception about the party."
 
 In fact, the first move was made when BJP's state general secretary Aravind Limbavalli, after holding talks with Rao and office-bearers, offered an apology: “The chaos in the party has become news and we apologize to the people of the state for what has happened."
 
 Yeddyurappa said: “We have to strengthen the party . We've been given a mandate to get 150 seats in the assembly polls and we will work towards it. We have to sort out our differences within the four walls, and not by holding public meetings." He appealed to the party workers not to be affected by the developments in the party. Yeddyurappa met Rao and presented his version on the ongoing tussle with Eshwarappa.
 
 But, a defiant Eshwarappa didn't meet meet Rao. Referring to speculations that Rao may present a report against him to the national president Amit Shah, Eshwarappa said: “The leaders know my role in building the party. What report can Rao give about me, what is there against me?" In the evening, Eshwarappa attended a meeting with some leaders who oppose Yeddyurappa's 'unilateral' decisions, at a house in Shivamogga. Sources said Rao will submit report to Shah in 2-3 days, and that could herald action in the BJP camp.
 
