It takes a totally different level of desire and determination to master a particular dance form.   as an art form has received worldwide attention close to around 90-odd countries. This form of dance has become a viable, appreciated art form and has been progressing continuously over the last 50 years and continues to do so.

 Belly dance, in modern times, has been fused with a wide variety of dances and styles making it one of the most versatile dance forms to work with. From   in India to classical Thai dances from  , it has been fused with almost every major dance form known to people. Along with being merged with different dance forms, it is quickly evolving into a medium that can be used for storytelling, theatre and other contemporary representations. 
 
 To portray the coast-to-coast evolution of belly dance through the ages, city-based belly dance instructor Shruti Narayanan organized show that centered around ‘Orientalism’ and exhibited the roles of different countries in the Middle East and certain parts of the USA, that has led to the enlargement of this sensuous dance form. The show had dancers from all over the country performing own compositions.
 
 Talking to BT about choosing to do a focused show on ‘Orientalism’, Shruti says, “Belly dance today is performed by a great deal of people in India, but not many people have really delved deep into its origins, history and its evolution process. I believe, if you want belly dance to sustain as an art form and if it is to be viewed respectfully among the general masses, it is imperative to educate the audience and all belly dance enthusiasts about the chronological evolution of the art form, which can be done if one goes back to the study of Orientalism.”
 
 
 
 After the victory of the World Fair, the likes of Vaudeville and   picked up the idea of a dancer known as ‘Little Egypt’ and fused modern dancing with ethnic Middle Eastern moves. There were different theories as to who is the original little Egypt was, the American dancers took it up as a stage name and presented the ‘Hoochie Coochie’ dance, as they called it, to the public.
 
 
 
 
 he tribal belly dance is nothing like the oriental belly dance. It does not restrict itself to stiff structure of precise music or movements. This art form can be done with any music, even  . It is more of a creative style.
 
 
 
 
 
