PUNE: The Shiv Sena is expected to stake a claim for 40% of the seats during next week’s talks for a pre-poll alliance with the  .

 While insisting that nothing is set in stone, sources in the Sena’s local unit said the party will push for a 40-60 % seat-sharing formula with the BJP for the   election, considering the same equation was used in the previous elections here. 
 
 Political observers feel the alliance for Pune will take shape once the two parties settle on a formula for Mumbai’s civic polls. If those talks fail, then an alliance in other cities — Thane, Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad — will be tough to hammer together, they said. 
 
 In the 2012 civic polls in Pune, both parties collectively won 41 seats. Sena had grabbed 15 seats while BJP had won 26. 
 
 In the build-up to the elections, Shiv Sena leaders had expressed a desire to go at it alone, but with the party high command hinting at an alliance, they had softened their stance. 
 
 Shiv Sena’s Pune chief Vinayak Nimhan said the talks will only be held at the higher levels. “We are waiting for further plans, and will look for our share if things move forward.”
 
 Another Sena leader expressed dissatisfaction over the arrangement with BJP so far. Despite sharing the power with the BJP at the state and Centre, the leader pointed out that things have been far from smooth. “We will convey the party workers’ sentiments to the high command. Workers want to go for an alliance only if talks take place ‘in a respectable manner’. Sena should get its due share of seats in Pune, otherwise the party is free to go at it alone. BJP should not try to dictate terms,” the leader said.
 
 However, sources in the BJP are adamant about their influence in the state and Centre, with eight MLAs and an MP. “With or without Shiv Sena, the BJP’s performance will remain outstanding in the civic polls,” a BJP leader said.
 
 On Friday, the party leaders in Pimpri Chinchwad had expressed optimism about an alliance, and that party chief   will take a decision by January 20.
 
