PATNA:   wearing specs and glued to digital devices like smartphones or tablets are a common sight nowadays. Doctors say those children don’t wear specs out of fashion, but they suffer from  , computer vision or dry eyes syndrome. 

 Dr Rakhi Kusumesh, associate professor at   (IGIMS), said they get nearly 5-10 cases per day of young children below 15 years suffering from either myopia and computer vision or dry eyes syndrome. 
 
 “Children these days do not go out. Whatever activities they are engaged in require near vision, leading to poor development of distant vision. Children between 9 and 13 years of age develop myopic vision. Computer vision or dry eye syndrome, which is quite prevalent, is caused due to less blinking of eyes because of using gadgets for long hours,” she said and added that a person normally blinks 15-20 times in a minute. 
 
 Dr Kusumesh said regular blinking causes a film of tear to spread evenly on the  , which keeps the eye lubricated and helps prevent irritants. She advises children to play outside. Sitting for long durations on a digital device should be avoided. Although blinking is semi-automatic, it should be done deliberately while using devices to ease the eye, she said. 
 
 Dr Sunil Kumar Singh said most of the cases he receives are related to computer vision syndrome. “Nearly 70% of the children who visit me suffer from computer vision syndrome,” said Dr Singh. According to him, this is caused due to excessive use of digital devices and living in an airconditioned atmosphere for too long. 
 
 “AC atmosphere is dry. While we are using digital devices, we tend to blink less. Normally, the blinking rate is 20 per minute whereas it’s just five to six times per minute when using a digital device. Parents or guardians also allow their kids to use these devices to keep them busy,” he added.
 
 PMCH eye department’s HoD Dr Umesh Prasad Sinha said cases of dry eye syndrome has increased among young children. “Earlier, we mostly used to get young adults. Now, 5 to 10 children in 5-15 years age group with dry eye syndrome visit us in the OPD every day. Cases of myopia is also on the rise. Continuous use of smartphones may also lead to burning sensation in the eyes,” he said. 
 
 Dr Sinha advises parents to tell their children to take breaks while using smartphones or tablets for long duration so as to rest their eyes. Blinking should be induced so that the tear has a chance to spread on the cornea as often as it should, he added. 
 
