NEW DELHI: Taking note of media reports of the alleged rape of a five-year-old girl in the city, Delhi high court on Tuesday ordered immediate legal aid and compensation to the survivor.

 A bench of acting Chief Justice   and Justice C Hari Shankar also questioned the police why it failed to inform   (DSLSA) about the crime, delaying urgent legal aid and compensation.
 
 “This court has repeatedly recognised entitlement of the victims of offences to legal aid. This is of special importance so far as the victims of dangerous crimes and sexual violence are concerned. High court has notified guidelines which are captioned as “Guidelines for recording evidence of vulnerable witnesses in criminal matters” which recognise the imperative need of ensuring legal aid at the earliest to victims of sexual violence,” the bench observed, issuing notice to Delhi government and the police commissioner.
 
 It directed DSLSA and the police to furnish protocol where any such crime once registered by police is also conveyed to the Authority for enabling aid and compensation to the victim swiftly.
 
 HC stressed that due to emergency nature of help required for victims of sexual offences, including children, “there can be nothing more important than information or report of such crime, being brought to the immediate attention of the DSLSA to enable it to take immediate steps for legal aid as well as compensation to the victim.”
 
 It underlined how assistance by DSLSA will not only ensure justice to the victim, but will further allow it to extend “best assistance is available to police for effectively investigating the crime as well and also enable compliance with the requirement of ensuring medical treatment and fair medical examination to the victims who would have the assistance of a legal aid lawyer.”
 
 The bench also red flagged another key area of concern, noting that it appears “there may be a gap in release of compensation between the date of the crime and its disbursement to the victims.”
 
 It asked DSLSA and the police to place a scheme/protocol that ensures “necessary legal aid is provided to the victims at the very inception from the time the offence is revealed and remains available to the victim at every stage” and also that compensation as per Victim Compensation Scheme, 2015, reaches the victim at the earliest.
 
 According to the police the five-year-old girl was sexually assaulted inside a washroom of a private school in east Delhi's Gandhi Nagar around Saturday noon. The accused is a ‘peon’ who was arrested based on the description of her attacker provided by the Class 1 student.
 
 
