JAIPUR: Do you think you have the potential and  , developing and selling an idea? Can you enter the fast paced   and market a product ranging from a film to a cream? If yes then marketing might be your call.

 Marketing has been introduced into the   of various institutions. The course has 3 degree levels, associate’s degree program, bachelor’s program and master’s in business administration. The bachelor’s program deals with  , economics, principles of marketing, principles of management, finance, international business, consumer behaviour and marketing research.
 
 The course prepares the students for the corporate world. Marketing focuses on the organization as well as the technological and oral communication skills. The course examines the role of finance in the modern business and deals with product development, distribution, promotion and pricing.
 
 “The power of selling is an unfathomable power today, every single moment we’re being sold things from shampoos to properties. Even we sell ourselves to get the best college or job, we’re in a marketing cycle and it plays an integral role in today’s world.” says Kesang Tshering Bhutia, a mass media student.
 
 For marketing the first principle is knowing your audience and making purchasing choices. You’ve to manipulate and monitor every deal according to you client because at the end of the day they’ll be investing in your deal, so top notch communication skills are required for being a good marketer. Another salient principle is to know your product well and highlighting why it is the best over the others.
 
 Abhishek Kumar, says “Marketing is about strategic investment of your budget at various platforms like VIVO with IPL.”
 
 The course deals with a major study of Consumer Behaviour that is the practical application of marketing techniques with a consumer focus. It also studies the importance of group dynamics, culture on behaviour in marketplace.
 
 “It’s great to be in marketing, it is the backbone of a company, what’s the use if you make a product and cannot promote it. It has to reach people” says Abhishek Kumar
 
 Considering the scope, marketing is present everywhere especially with the advancement of digital marketing over the internet, marketing has even taken over social media, whenever we surf the web or use Facebook we often get these advertising pop ups and notifications leading us to eventually end up on their page with exciting offers and deals. Marketing has got highly paid packages which is a major attraction for students.
 
 So if you think you can sell a pen over a pencil, and if you’re creative enough to win your audience then Marketing might help you achieve your goals.
 
