MYSURU/ BENGALURU: The  , which suffered a huge defeat in the recent   elections, heaved a huge sigh of relief on Thursday, winning both   bypolls-Nanjangud and Gundlupet -by impressive margins.

 In Nanjangud, Kalale Keshavamurthy defeated former minister V Srinivasa Prasad (BJP) by 21,334 votes. In Gundlupet, Geetha Mahadev Prasad, wife of minister   whose death necessitated the bypoll, trounced CS Niranjan Kumar (BJP) by 10,887 votes.
 
 Though both constituencies have been strongholds of the Congress and Janata Parivar, the victory comes when parties in Karnataka are gearing up for the 2018 assembly polls. The victory is attributed to chief minister Siddaramaiah's personal connect with people in the two constituencies and his programmes.
 
 The bypolls had become a proxy battle between Siddaramaiah and state BJP president  , who will face off in the 2018 polls. The Nanjangud bypoll was crucial for former minister and dalit leader V Srinivasa Prasad, who resigned from the Congress and the assembly to contest on a BJP ticket after he was dropped from the cabinet in June 2016. The BJP was banking on victories as both constituencies have not been their stomping ground.The BJP, confident of Lingayats voting in good numbers as Yeddyurappa hails from this community, was looking at pulling off a Uttar Pradesh-like voting trend where dalits favoured the BJP and won 69 of the total 85 reserved constituencies.
 
 The JD(S) did not field candidates looking at a possible alliance with the Congress in 2018. Keshavamurthy, a JD(S) member, crossed over to the Congress to contest the bypoll. This helped the Congress to shore up votes as he had lost to Prasad in 2013 as a JD(S) candidate by 8,941 votes and had made a base there.
 
 The lead Congress managed in the reserved constituency of Nanjangud is significant as Prasad had sought to re-enter the assembly invoking dalit pride. But dalit communities didn't support him significantly, while Yeddyurappa was successful to an extent in getting Lingayats to support Prasad.
 
 In Gundlupet, the Con gress, banking on a sympathy wave for the late minister, fielded his wife Geetha, a college professor and writer.The calculation worked. For BJP's Kumar, this is his third unsuccessful attempt to win from Gundlupet.
 
 After 23 years, Gundlupet has elected a woman representative. For a record seven times, the segment had been represented by Congress veteran KS Nagarathanamma, the first woman speaker of Karnataka.
 
