KOLKATA: Bengal police on Saturday arrested state   vice-president and spokesman   on the basis of a five month-old FIR in a cheating case. He was interrogated for seven hours before being formally put under arrest.

 BJP was quick to dub it as a “political conspiracy” and “victimisation”, picking up the same refrain   has used to describe arrests of its senior functionaries by the  .
 
 According to the FIR lodged by a Bagdah (North 24-Parganas) resident last August, Majumdar had allegedly received Rs 7.2 lakh in two tranches from TET (Teacher’s Eligibility Test) aspirants after he promised to file a case on their behalf against the state’s “utter incompetency and nepotism”, but did nothing.
 
 “During questioning, Majumdar denied several things despite being presented with evidence. We then decided to arrest him,” DCP   said. Majumdar has always denied receiving any money and said the complainants had no documents to buttress their claims.
 
 State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh questioned the inordinate delay in police action. “The complainants had come to me.
 
 I had asked them what proof they had. They could show nothing. Why would people give lakhs without documents? How did TET aspirants — themselves jobseekers — get so much money? And, as far as Iknow, Majumdar isn’t a lawyer and neither does he run a law firm,” he said. “This is a ploy by TMC to stop further CBI action against its party members,” Ghosh said.
 
 He added, “It is unthinkable that anyone can be arrested on the basis of an unsubstantiated and unproven piece of paper. The CM had earlier hinted that BJP members would be arrested. So they are digging up cases now. We will contest this legally and politically.” TMC chose not to comment on the development. “The law will take its own course,” a senior party member said, requesting anonymity.
 
 DCP Pandey said, “Majumdar failed to give proper answers. We have arrested him and he will be produced in court tomorrow.” The state BJP vice-president joined BJP from   on September 5, 2014.
 
