NAGPUR: Former assistant registrar of Nagpur University Yadav Kohchade was arrested and sent behind bars on Wednesday after being convicted for offering bribe to a cop. The special court awarded him four years imprisonment for offering money to Anil  , then deputy police superintendent at Sitabuldi police station, who was investigating NU’s fake mark-sheet and revaluation scam that had rocked the institution in 1999.

 Public prosecutors Rajendra Mendhe and Varsha Aglave said the accused was also asked to deposit Rs50,000 fine.
 
 Special judge TS Akali found him guilty under Section 12 of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, for offering Rs7 lakh bribe to Lokhande, for dropping his, and beneficiary student Vishalaxmi’s name from the charge sheet. The complainant had booked Kohchade under Sections 420, 468, and 471 of the   in the scam that allegedly benefited hundreds of students.
 
 On June 18, 1999, when Lokhande was interrogating Bunty Uike in the police station in the evening, he received Kohchade’s call for a meeting. Accordingly, it was decided to meet near Rahate Colony Square the same day. Kohchade offered him Rs7 lakh for suppressing the names, and not recall Uike for interrogation. After Lokhande’s nod, a meeting was fixed on June 19, 1999, at   at Sitabuldi. In the meanwhile, Lokhande lodged a complaint with Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) against Kohchade.
 
 A trap was laid and the accused was caught while handing over Rs7 lakh cash to Lokhande in the presence of a witness on the same day at about 2.30pm. The ACB also searched his office and home, where more cash was found along with jewellery. He was immediately arrested and put behind bars for some time before being released on bail. The case was pending all these years, and the verdict was pronounced on Wednesday.
 
 Often referred to as Y2K in NU, Kohchade was first convicted on December 28, 2006, for his role in tampering with marks and issuing fake mark-sheets to beneficiaries. The kingpin, in connivance with many NU staffers and middlemen, tweaked and twisted the rules to grant benefits to hundreds of students, particularly from the engineering faculty. Collectively, they ran a racket where bogus degrees and mark sheets were offered to students, mostly from other states, for a huge premium. After the scam came to fore, over 100 persons were booked, including 80 beneficiary students, for involvement in cheating and forgery.
 
 The scam led to the arrest of many officials, including then acting registrar and exam controller PB Mistri, ex-dean of engineering faculty Hemant Thakre, and other NU officials, and beneficiary students. The scam had led to several repercussions, as it gained nationwide publicity and renowned companies and colleges from India and abroad started rejecting students for admissions and jobs. It, however, led to a series of radical reforms in NU examination system, since no rules existed for valuation, revaluation or tabulation till then. A panel was constituted under Justice (retd) MM Qazi, which issued several directives to streamline the exam system and post-examination safeguards, NU officials told TOI.
 
