Two teams from the city recently secured first and third place at an off-roading championship in  . Both are members of the   ( ), who beat their toughest competitors, Gerrari Offroaders, on their home turf. 

 The winning team — comprising Sidhartha Santosh,   AC, Lokesh Shivaraja and   — are a group of enthusiasts, who, despite having regular day jobs, are driven by their passion for off-roading. Fresh from his team’s win, Prithviraj says, “Chandigarh is the hometown of the Gerrari Offroaders, who are our fiercest competitors. Going on their home turf and fighting it out there was a big challenge, but we succeeded.”
 
 
 
 The terrain at the recent championship was different from what BODA is used to, as it mostly comprised huge mounds of sand that the team hadn’t driven on before. The difficulty level of each stage — there were six of them at different locations — was high. Thirteen teams from Karnataka, Kerala, Goa, Punjab, Haryana, Delhi,  , Maharashtra and Arunachal Pradesh got to do a walkthrough of each stage, during which they had to strategize and figure out how to complete it. Each stage had a time limit of 15-20 minutes, which only made things tougher. Speaking about their win, Prithviraj says, “We were leading on Day 1; only five teams completed it. Of the three stages on Day 2, we were fastest in one, and did OK in the other two. We suffered huge penalties and were setback by 60 points. On Day 3, we secured the best time in one of the two stages.”
 
 
  
 
 
 The team has spent years modifying their vehicles, which require constant fixing and improvements, making it an expensive affair. The car costs Rs 3 lakh-Rs 4 lakh, but after all the modifications, they can cost anything between Rs 15 lakh and Rs 20 lakh. At every event, something or the other gets broken, which requires replacement. Once a year, the cars need to be stripped down and reassembled to assess parts that have suffered wear and tear. The garages in the city are not up to the mark, so the teammates have a good knowledge of their cars and actually tell the mechanics what to do.
 
 But, according to Prithviraj, the car constitutes only 30% of the win. It is the driver and the co-driver that are all important. “Even if the vehicle is not so good, and the driver and co-driver are good, they will make it through. The drivers need to be strong mentally, as they need to be 100% sure of what they are going to do. You need to have a set plan, which you need to be confident about,” says Prithviraj.
 
 
 
 BODA comprises 30 members, who have been off-roading together for 7-8 years. “We used to go off-roading every month, on a Sunday morning. Now, we only go for events, which can be up to 8-10 a year. Most are 2-3 day-long events that typically take place on weekends. But the larger ones span 8-10 days, so off-roading takes up all our family holidays. To make up for this, we take our family along on 
 bigger events, which is a lot of fun as we get to camp and spend time with them,” says Prithviraj.
 
 
  
 
 
 Looking back at his journey, Prithviraj says, “We have been off-roading for close to 15 years. There was no school to teach us and we learnt over the years. We have been improving year on year, and it is experience that wins champion ships.” So, what’s the enthusiasm like towards the sport in the city? “We are number one right now when it comes to off-roading. There are huge jeepers’ bases in Bengaluru, Coorg, Chikmagalur, Sakleshpur and Somwarpet, but there aren’t too many people who compete. That will hopefully change in the future. In this sport, seeing is learning, so while we may have taken over a decade to get to where we have, others who watch us off-road will pick it up in a couple of seasons,” says Prithviraj.
 
