PUNE: For many who have seen   on the big screen, he was an ‘intense’ actor. But at his alma mater,  , Pune, he was as an extraordinarily funny guy who was concerned about the well-being of people living on the campus.

 From the 83-year-old washerman Tukaram, to faculty member and batchmate Bharat Nerkar, who had just one-day shoot left to complete a documentary on Bahadurshah Zafar with the actor, everyone who has met him on the campus has a story to tell. Puri, who passed away on Friday, visited the campus last in September 2015 to express his solidarity with students who were on a hunger strike to protest the appointment of Gajendra Chauhan as   chairperson.
 
 According to Harishankar Nachimuthu, the student body president of FTII, Om Puri visited the campus at night during the student agitation. “He was very concerned about our health. Hilal, a student was admitted to Joshi Hospital, Pune, and Om Puri went to see him. There was a huge crowd at the hospital to see him and police had to be called to control the situation. After that everybody, including the hospital staff members started treating Hilal as a celebrity thinking if a person of Om Puri’s stature had come to meet him in the middle of the night, he must be someone big,” said Nachimuthu. Some students even recalled the actor helping them financially during the agitation.
 
 Though frail and in poor health, Washerman Tukaram recalled his interaction with Om Puri, when he was a student. “Whenever he came to drop his clothes with me for washing, he would ask me about Dev Anand, Prabhat studio, Shantaram and all the famous people who have walked these lanes,” said Gaikwad.
 
 He also recollected Puri coming to the campus to shoot for Ketan Mehta’s coming of age drama film Holi. “He had no airs of a star. But then nobody from FTII has any airs when they come back. I remember he was effortlessly funny,” added Gaikwad.
 
 Puri had already made a name in theatre after passing out of National School of Drama, New Delhi, before he joined FTII in 1974 for a two-year acting diploma course. He acted in five diploma films namely Amrita, An Elusive Dream, Khukari, Navjatak and Duniya Chalti hai.
 
 However, not many of his diploma films are in good condition. Dinesh Netkar, a film checker at the institute, said, “I have till now found five films out of which Navjatak is in good condition. All of them are in black and white. We have negatives of all films at the National Film Archive of India,” said Netke.
 
  Puri, however, could not complete his last assignment with Bharat Nerkar, who was a cinematography student of the same batch as Puri. “We were shooting for a documentary on Bahadurshah Zafar. Only a day’s shoot was left. We had planned to complete the shoot on December 24, which got postponed to first week of January and then, finally, he promised to make himself available on January 14. But that was not to be,” said Nerkar. 
 
 
