KOLKATA: The state government is giving shape to a new law which proposes a five- to ten-fold hike in penalties for first-time   offences. 

 Dangerous driving could lead to a fine of Rs 4,000 for the first offence instead of the current Rs 400, while driving without helmets and speeding would result in a fine of Rs 1,000 for the first offence and much more for successive offences. Even minor violations like jumping signals or unlawful parking would attract a fine of Rs 500 instead of the current Rs 100. Most importantly, bikes seized for rash driving can only be released after the case is adjudicated by a magistrate.
 
 The proposals have already been cleared by the transport department and Lalbazar and are now being scrutinized by the home department before they are sent to chief minister   for approval. It was the CM who had set the ball rolling in the matter, urging the police and the transport department to examine if the existing traffic laws could be made more stringent. The government is likely to place a bill in the assembly to usher in the changes. 
 
 While framing the proposals, the   sought detailed legal opinion on the process of implementation. It was felt that while the hike in penalties could be executed by issuing a formal notification, a Bill would enable the police to act faster and make the prosecution process speedier. However, it is unlikely that the Bill will be tabled in the ongoing assembly session, which ends on May 30, given its manifold legal ramifications.
 
 Neither transport minister   nor Kolkata Police additional commissioner Vineet Goyal agreed to speak on the proposed Bill.
 
 The state move also coincides with a similar attempt by the Centre to increase fines for traffic offences. The amended Central bill has already been passed by the Lok Sabha. The matter, however, falls within the concurrent list, giving the state the leg-room to make the changes on its own.
 
 Transport department sources said the fine structure is being prepared so that it acts as a deterrent. The proposals were initially aimed at curbing bike-racing, but was extended to other traffic offences later. 
 
 Driving a vehicle at excessive speed, for example, had various penalties depending on the nature of vehicle. The first offences often led to fines ranging between Rs 200 and Rs 600 with Rs 1000 being charged for the third offence and every offence thereafter. Now, the first offence itself will attract a fine of Rs 1000. 
 
 Dangerous driving under section 184 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, had a Rs 400 penalty for car and bike drivers for the first offence. This amount will be hiked to Rs 4000-5000. Relatively lesser offences like traffic signal violation, wrong parking, centre-line violation or even stop line violation would now result in a fine of Rs 500 for the first offence. For bikers, driving without a helmet will attract a penalty of Rs 1000 for the first offence.
 
 “We are amending the Motor Vehicle Act to empower the police to cancel or suspend driving licences, registration and permits. We are also studying legal options to enhance the burden of the penalties on errant drivers,” said a senior official.
 
 
