Manali: Abundant and continuing snowfall has thickened layers of snow on the Himalayan peaks and rejuvenated hundreds of glaciers that will prove beneficial for the country in summer months.

 Peaks in Himachal Pradesh are getting good snow after many years, giving new lease of life to nearly 2,100 small and large glaciers. Unlike last year when less snow had caused several problems, accumulation of thick layer of snow this year will ensure storage of abundance of fresh water for drinking, irrigation and hydel projects throughout the year. As the economy of the state is largely dependent on apple, tourism and hydropower generation, good snowfall has ensured good times for the people of the state.
 
 High mountain passes like Kunzum, Rohtang, Baralacha, Sach, Hamta, Parvati and high peaks, including Reo Purgil, Deo Tibba, Hanuman Tibba, Indrasan, Manirang and Kinner Kailash, are under several feet of snow. Areas at high altitude, including that covered with old glaciers like state’s largest glacier Bara Shigri, Mukkila, Lady of Keylong, Bhaga, Dhaka, Sonapani, Bhadal, Gora, Chandra Nahan, Miyar, Beas Kund, Mani Mahesh, Perad, Parbati and Dudhon, are experiencing good snowfall. 
 
 Scientists believe the snow has increased both length and thickness of the glaciers. Senior scientist Jagdish Chandra Kuniyal said spells of good snowfall helped in stocking fresh water on the hills. “Good snowfall is better for everything. It rejuvenates glaciers and maintains temperature. It is good for crops and also helps control many diseases. Snowfall on Himalayan ranges will not only prove beneficial for the Himachal but also for other states and countries as well,” he added.
 
 Stocking of good snow on Rohtang, Marhi and Hamta have ensured a prolonged tourist season. Lakhs of tourists visit Himachal, generally to see snow during summer months. Snow is expected to last till July this season and hoteliers believe tourist flow will also continue till then.
 
 Shimla, Manali get more snowfall
 
 Shimla: Himachal Pradesh’s tourist destinations Shimla and Manali on Saturday received more snowfall, with the state capital recording a minimum temperature of 0.4°C.
 
 While Shimla saw a mild spell of snowfall, upper areas like Narkanda, Jubbal, Kotkhai and Khada Pathar experienced moderate snowfall, according to a met official here. Manali also received moderate snow.
 
 Other hill stations like Chail, Kasauli, Barog, Dharamsala and Palampur experienced rainfall.
 
 “The entire belt in Kinnaur, Lahaul and Spiti, Kullu and Chamba districts witnessed moderate snowfall,” a weatherman said.
 
 Keylong, the headquarter town of Lahaul and Spiti district, was coldest at a minimum temperature of minus 5.1°C.
 
 Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded a low of minus 4°C, while it was 6.6°C in Dharamsala and minus 0.6°C in Manali.
 
 The met department's forecast said the western disturbances, storm systems originating from Caspian Sea and moving across the Afghanistan-Pakistan region, would start withdrawing on Monday. IANS
 
 
