NEW DELHI: In a bid to reduce the impact of the US ban on carrying electronics larger than a smartphone for transit passengers, Dubai-based Emirates will introduce a new service to enable customers to use their laptops and tablet devices until just before they board their flights to the US.

 "Emirates customers travelling to the US via Dubai will be able to utilise their laptops and tablet devices on the first part of their journeys, and also during transit in Dubai. They must then declare and hand over their laptops, tablets, and other banned electronic devices to security staff at the gate just before boarding their US bound flight. The devices will be carefully packed into boxes, loaded into the aircraft hold, and returned to the customer at their US destination. There will not be any charge for this service," said an Emirates spokesperson.
 
 This is a move to allow transit passengers from India, a huge market for Emirates, to use their personal electronic devices on the India leg of their US journeys via Dubai as passengers boarding and alighting from US flights in Dubai have been "encouraged to pack their electronic devices into their check-in luggage in the first instance, to avoid delays".
 
 "Customers should be aware that there will be a detailed search of all hand baggage on non-stop flights to the US from Dubai. They should therefore declare their devices before the search, or ensure their electronic devices are packed into their check-in luggage in the first instance," Emirates said.
 
 Emirates president Tim Clark said: "Our aim is to ensure compliance with the new rules, while minimising disruption to passenger flow and impact on customer experience.Our new service enables passengers, particularly those flying for business, to have the flexibility to use their devices until the last possible moment."
 
 "Once on board they can still stay connected on their mobile phones. Our historical data shows that on  , 90% of passengers using our on board mobile and   connectivity services do so via their smart phones.Only 6% connect via their laptops, and 4% via their tablets. That is not to say that other passengers are not using their devices offline, but perhaps the silver lining to this is that they can now justifiably give themselves a break from their devices, enjoy our on board service and catch up on the latest movies, music, and TV box sets that we have on offer," Clark said. 
 
