AGRA: Fissures have erupted in the   (AMUSU) over the allegedly unilateral decision of its president to give life membership of the body to controversial social activist  , known for pursuing cases related to the Gujarat riots of 2002.
 
  While AMUSU president   has announced that Setalvad would be given the life membership on May 23, secretary of the union,  , told TOI that they would not allow the event to take place as this decision did not have the consent of the union. "It is unilateral,” he said, adding that any such decision could be taken only at an executive meeting.
  
  Hassan told TOI Setalvad, who is facing investigations for Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act violations, is being given the life membership for her contribution to "fighting for the rights of the weak". He said Setalvad would be honoured at an event organized by the union and that she would be the first social activist to be given life membership of AMUSU.
  
  However, Hassan's decision is likely to snowball into a major controversy with Usmani insisting that they would not allow the event to take place. The secretary claimed that he had the support of other union members on this issue.
  
  According to Hassan over 150 people, including Dalai Lama, have been given life membership of AMUSU.
  
  Human rights activist Setalvad, who has been leading a campaign for justice to those affected by communal violence in Gujarat in 2002, delivered a lecture at AMU for a discussion on ‘India's Preamble — the Equality Challenger — from Electoral to Constitutional Governance’ in 2015 and had said that if minorities were feeling insecure, India would become weak and divisive forces would gather strength.
  
  On Being contacted, Setalvad told TOI that she would certainly accept the life membership of the AMU Students’ Union.
  
  It may be mentioned that CBI has filed a chargesheet against Setalvad's organization. The ministry of home affairs had filed an official complaint against her, accusing her of receiving funds from abroad without taking permission from the MHA. Following the complaint, the CBI on July 7 last year had registered a case and named Setalvad and her husband Javed Anand as the accused. The chargesheet was filed in a Mumbai court against Setalvad on December 31.
