LUCKNOW: Brace for snarls and bottlenecks in city streets till March 8. Reason: Half of the city's traffic police force has been sent on   to other parts of the state. Although   and   have been pressed into service, they are finding   too hot to handle.

 The city is currently managing with 218 traffic cops, almost half the required strength. The rest have been deployed for the remaining four phases of elections. To fill the gap, around 180 home guards and civil defence personnel have been asked to manage traffic. TOI found chaos reigning at most of the major city crossings -Polytechnic in Chinhat, Charbagh, Kaiserbagh and Chowk. From parking norms to one-way-traffic, all rules were being brazenly flouted. Home guards and civil defence men were visible at only a couple of places.
 
 In the absence of cops, one-way and parking rules were being openly flouted right in front of the SSP camp office at Sapru Marg. Sapna Sinha, a commuter riding a scooty from Sapru Marg, was taken by surprise when a car suddenly came from the wrong side, Shahnajaf Road, right towards her. She told TOI that earlier three cops were sta tioned at the spot just to ensure that the one-way rule ensure that the one-way rule was being followed.
 
 A row of cars was seen parked at the Halwasiya crossing, which resulted in traffic crawling on the road.Vinod Mishra, a regular commuter on the stretch, said it usually takes him 10 minutes to cover the stretch with cops on duty and traffic lights working properly . But in their absence, the traffic has just been going haywire.“One home guard was present but he lacked the skills to manage the traffic,“ Mishra told TOI.
 
 The Polytechnic crossing saw a massive jam that lasted for more than three hours.Ajay Shukla, who had to pick up his child from school in Indiranagar, said his child waited for an hour at school as he is stuck in a jam. “I guess it will take at least two hours to reach office after dropping my kid home and I will have to miss an important meeting,“ he said, adding that some steps should be taken to “manage traffic during school timings“.
 
 Traffic lights were not followed at the Badshahnagar crossing and vehicles were seen moving chaotically, leading to frequent congestion. At Kapoorthala, vehicles were parked occupying a better part of the road, restricting traffic movement. Just one home guard managed the busy Kaiserbagh crossing. The Munshipulia roundabout was choca-bloc with traffic for an hour in the afternoon after schools in the vicinity got over. Traffic congestion prevailed almost all day on the busy Hussainganj-Charbagh route.
 
 ASP (Traffic) Habibul Hasan said that apart from civil defence and home guards, traffic staff on office duty had also been asked to assist in management.
 
