JALANDHAR: Even as the   (SGPC) top brass have   of  , who have been   of the incident despite them having already served a life term in Pakistan, SGPC member and SAD leader Karnail Singh Panjoli has asked chief minister Amarinder Singh to take up the their re-trial matter with the Union home minister. 

 “Sikh institutions have committed to provide legal aid to both. You as the CM of Punjab should call Rajnath Singh and press upon him to withdraw the supplementary charge-sheet as Delhi police, which filed chargesheet against them, comes under the Union home ministry,” Panjoli said.
 
 “When the Punjab CM has already said that prosecution of the two, who had already served life terms in Pakistan for the same crime, would amount to serious travesty of justice, he should now use his good offices to urge Rajnath Singh to avoid this travesty of justice,” said Panjoli, also the executive member of the SGPC in the previous house.
 
 Expressing solidarity with the Dal Khalsa men, the SGPC member from Fatehgarh Sahib said the hijackers were unarmed and did no harm passengers. He further said they took this extreme step to draw the attention of the world to the Sikh demands. They used hijacking as a tool to lodge protest against arrest of Sant Jarnail Singh Bhindrawale and state's atrocities on Sikhs,” he said. 
 
 Notably, even as SAD controlled Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee has already promised to pay the legal fee for the two Sikh hijackers SGPC and Punjab based SAD has preferred to remain silent. 
 
 – Case against all 5 hijackers
 
 Delhi police, in 2011, had filed a supplementary charge-sheet in the court of Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (ACMM) against five Sikh hijackers in the old FIR pertaining to hijacking case of September 29, 1981. Out of five, Satnam Singh and Tejinderpal Singh are facing the trail while Gajinder Singh (who was leading the hijackers) Jasbir Singh and Karan Singh are living abroad. A Delhi court had also issued Non-Bailable Warrants against the five after which the two – Satnam and Tedjinderpal – moved Delhi High Court which asked them to join the trial while vacating the NBWs. Gajinder Singh’s name was earlier also included in India’s Most Wanted.
 
