PANAJI: British couple Alan Davies and Ruth Miller saw 4,341   across the world in 2008, North American Noah Strycker 6,042 in 2015, but Dutch birder Arjan Dwarshuis broke Strycker’s record finishing 2016 with 6,833 species.

 Indian wildlife biologist Shashank Dalvi moved across the country for a record sighting of 1,128 birds in 2015. 
 
 How many bird species from 463 species documented in the state would birders from Goa and other states be able to spot in Big Year 2017?
 
 Goa Bird Conservation Network (GBCN) has just declared the Goa Big Year 2017 in a bid to introduce the concept popularized in   since the 1940s. 
 
 “This is the first of its kind in India” Parag Rangnekar, GBCN president said.
 
 When “The Big Year” a movie starring Hollywood actor Owen Wilson chasing a Snowy Owl was released in 2011, bird-watching was yet to catch up in India and Goa, too.
 
 Birders are a rare breed themselves and after GBCN formed its group, it initially struggled to find volunteers for bird counts. But the hobby gained popularity soon. GBCN has 70 members, but its facebook group members have swelled to over 3,000. Many have participated in Big Bird Day (BBD) and the Great Backyard Bird Count (GBBC), a global birding event.
 
 This year, birders will be able to relish the competition of observing, recording and reporting the maximum species in 2017. Some have started registering at http://www.birdcount.in/goa-big- year-2017/.
 
 “They will have to visit various habitat types at different times of the year to record as many species as possible with supporting evidence of photographs, recordings of the call/song which will then be scrutinized by the Goa Rarities Committee” said Rajiv D’Silva, GBCN secretary.
 
 Famed ornithologist Heinz Lainer, and prolific birders Qupeleio De Souza, Pankaj Lad will be part of this committee. 
 
 “Some species records are very tough to evaluate without enough documentation and hence the need for forming a rarities committee was felt,” said Rangnekar.
 
 
