SHAMBHU (PATIALA): The Centre has rushed 10 companies of paramilitary forces to the state to ensure that situation doesn’t get out of hand on Thursday, the day   workers plan to enter Punjab and dig Satluj-Yamuna Link ( ) canal. At the same time,   have also erected two “steel walls” near Shambhu barrier in Patiala district to block the entry of Haryana party activists.

 Two days back, the state police had got concrete wall built on same old road that is no longer in use but cops suspect that it might be used by INLD workers to come in. Police are now rushing in material to erect bigger barricades.
 
 On Tuesday, Punjab Police set up a transitory control room at Chanson Haveli, a few kilometers from the Punjab-Haryana border, from where the senior officials would be monitoring the situation and giving orders to the field staff on February 23. Even the para forces personnel, who are to reach Punjab on Wednesday morning, would assembly near the control room.
 
 Three officers of the rank of IGP and five of the rank of SSP, along with a battery of SPs, DSPs, SHOs and other personnel from Ropar, Fatehgarh Sahib, Patiala, Sangrur and Barnala districts, have been deputed at Shambhu.
 
 Punjab DGP Suresh Arora and DGP (law and order) H S Dhillon on Tuesday took stock of the arrangements being put in place along the Punjab-Haryana border. DGP Arora also undertook an aerial survey of the border of both states to identify areas, which can be used by the INLD activists to sneak into Punjab on February 23.
 
 Punjab Police chief was later joined by Haryana ADGP R C Mishra and Ambala SP Abhishek Jorwal. The three talked for about half an hour at the Ghaggar bridge near Shambhu border.
 
 “We have put all arrangements in place and the status quo ordered by the Supreme Court on the SYL issue would be maintained at all costs,” DGP Arora said, while interacting with the newspersons near the twin steel walls.
 
 In reply to a specific question, he said that maintaining law and order was a state matter and they were competent enough to deal with the situation.
 
 A large number of Punjab police personnel would be reaching Shambhu by Wednesday evening. The police department would also be using half a dozen drones to keep an eye on the situation. Traffic diversion plan has also been chalked out to ensure smooth flow of traffic especial on the National highway.
 
 The police officials have also put in place a detailed plan of action to lead ‘Operation Dominance’ on the said date during which Patiala and Ropar SSPs would be leading the manning of Shambhu entry point. Fatehgarh Sahib SSP would be leading the security personnel at Kapoori and SSP Sangrur would be present at Devigarh, where the supporters of All India Sikh Students’ Federation (AISSF) are likely to assembly as per the call given by the body. SSP Barnala would be coordinating with these officers.
 
 Patiala range IG B Chander Shekar said they were also keeping a watch on the trains connecting Punjab and Haryana with SP-rank officers being deputed at Shambhu railway stop and Rajpura railway station along with adequate number of police personnel. He said that in case anyone would still try to enter Punjab forcefully, they might take them in preventive custody.
 
 Patiala range DIG Ashish Choudhary said that they would prevent AISSF activists from marching towards Kapoori as their presence near the border could be a flash point. He said that police was ready to deal with any threat that may come their way on the day.
 
