KOLKATA: When  , who plies rickshaw near Ballygunge station, met   six months ago, he had no clue about Indian parallel cinema or the actor’s mammoth contribution to it. Daily wage-earner Das had never watched “City of Joy”; he remembered Puri as the actor from Mithun Chakraborty-starrer “Disco Dancer”. 

 Das was among the 45 rickshaw-pullers who were felicitated by Puri at journalist-turned-photographer Kounteya Sinha’s exhibition in June. That was the last time the actor visited Kolkata. On Friday, when Das was told about Puri’s demise, he was saddened he would never meet the star-rickshaw-puller again. “I feel sad to know he is no more. No one has given so much respect to the rickshaw-pullers of Kolkata. We went to the exhibition. He asked us about our kaam dhanda, how much we earn. Then we clicked photos,” Das 
 
 Das learnt about Puri’s “stardom” after being honoured by the actor. He remembered hearing tales of how Puri spent three months in Kolkata, how the day after he landed in the city for a shoot with Hollywood’s  , he woke up at the crack of dawn to pull a rickshaw. Then, there were stories of how Puri drew attention as he was pulling a rickshaw in tracksuits. “So, he changed into a lungi, vest and wrapped a gamcha round himself to pull a rickshaw from Oberoi to Dharamtala, past Writers’ Buildings, New Market and Nandan,” said Das. “I still have the two t-shirts each of us was given at the felicitation event. We also got Rs 200.”
 
 While preparing for the role of rickshaw-puller Hasari Pal in “City of Joy”, Puri turned up at Satyajit Ray’s Bishop Lefroy Road. “In a lungi and vest, he had put some kids on his rickshaw. Quite naturally, our driver didn’t entertain him. It was only later when a neighbourhood panwallah spotted him in the crowd that people understood who he was. Then, he entered home and had a lengthy adda with baba,” recounted director Sandip Ray.
 
 Rickshaw-puller Das and his friend, Ramesh Rai, who was also felicitated, recounted a hilarious tale Puri had told them: two elderly men were perplexed to see Puri pulling a rickshaw and wondered how he resembled the actor. Puri disclosed his identity but as he made to walk away, he overheard the men regretting how “bechara Puri”, once a fine actor, had fallen on bad times. 
 
 Das’s friend Rai said, “We don’t have the luxury of watching films. Puri’s visit was a breath of fresh air in our dreary life. Today is a sad day for Kolkata’s rickshaw-pullers.”
 
