PUNE: A   here on Tuesday pronounced the   for all three convicts in the criminal conspiracy and murder of software engineer   in October 2009.

 Additional sessions judge Lata Yenkar ruled that the case qualified for the “rarest of rare” doctrine propounded by the Supreme Court for awarding death sentences. “All the three accused shall be hanged by the neck till they are dead,” she said. The death sentence is subject to confirmation by the Bombay high court.
 
 On Monday, the sessions court had held the three men — Yogesh Raut, Mahesh Thakur and Vishwas Kadam — guilty under six offences including kidnapping, gang rape, murder and criminal conspiracy.
 
 This is the second death sentence handed by a local court in a rape and murder case. In March 2012, a sessions court had handed the death sentence to a cab driver and his friend for raping and murdering BPO executive Jyotikumari Chaudhari (22) in 2007. The death rap was upheld by the Bombay high court in September the same year and also by the Supreme Court in 2015. Their mercy plea is now pending before the President.
 
 Pujari (28), who worked with a software company in Kharadi, was kidnapped on the evening of October 7, 2009 from the Kharadi-Mundhwa bypass while she was waiting for transport to return home from office. Two days later, her badly mutilated body was found in the Zarewadi forests in Khed taluka. She was gangraped at different locations before being strangled and her body disposed of. The accused pulled out Rs 61,000 cash from her bank account by using her ATM card at three places, and also took her ornaments worth Rs 72,000.
 
 In September 2011, main accused Raut had escaped from police custody while being taken to hospital for a medical test. He was, however, re-arrested from Shirdi in May 2013.
 
 The judge also sentenced the trio to rigorous imprisonment (RI) for life for the offence of gang-raping the victim. They were also handed seven years’ RI each for kidnapping Nayana and robbery with intent to commit murder and for another two years for misappropriation of the woman’s belongings.
 
 The judge ordered the release of the fourth accused, Rajesh Chaudhari, who later turned an approver, for having met all the conditions of pardon granted by the court and for co-operating with the investigating agency.
 
 Main accused Raut collapsed on his seat crying and buried his face in his hands after the judge declared the punishment. Thakur and Kadam stood motionless with their heads down. The sentencing was met with thunderous applause in the courtroom, which required the judge to intervene and ask the police to restore normalcy.
 
 Speaking to TOI later, Nayana’s husband Abhijit said, “We were waiting for this very moment to hear this very sentence from the court. We are content with the court’s ruling.” Nayana’s two sisters and younger brother were inconsolable after hearing the sentencing.
 
 In her sentencing order, Yenkar ruled, “Considering the facts and circumstances, the inhuman conduct of the accused, the fact that the murder was committed in a brutal, gruesome, diabolical and beastly manner, the innocence and helpless condition of the victim and the impact of the crime on the society and the community at large, I have no hesitation to hold that the case comes within the rarest of rare doctrine. The investigation has been done in a fair and proper manner by investigating officers Deepak Sawant and Vishwanath Ghanwat, who have taken special efforts in doing a credible job.”
 
 The judge said, “The aggravating circumstances outweigh the mitigating circumstances in the case. Considering the sequence of events, right from the stage when the victim was abducted till her murder in a cruel manner, if the accused are allowed to live, they would be a menace to the society. The accused must be punished adequately for their wild act.”
 
 The judge held that the contentions raised by the accused regarding quantum of punishment are irrelevant and cannot tilt the balance in their favour. “The accused are hardened criminals and habitual offenders,” she said, while describing the case as an unfortunate incident not only for Nayana and her relatives but also for society at large. “A crime of such gravity and intensity brought to the fore the concerns about safety of working women in a city like Pune. Nowadays, more and more women are participating in the process of development and they are even required to work in the night shift. The incident has shocked the conscience of the community at large.”
 
 The judge observed that the accused can barely claim the benefit of mitigating circumstances as they did not commit the crime under any extreme mental or emotionally disturbed state of mind. “Earlier too, they have committed such offences and there is no probability that they would not commit such crimes again. There is no scope for their reformation,” she said. 
 
 Yenkar also pointed to a unique feature in the case, describing the same as “rare” in recent cases, that not a single witness turned hostile during the trial. “All witnesses, including the four friends of the accused (who had last seen the victim with the accused), came on record to display a courageous attitude. Special public prosecutor Harshad Nimbalkar too did his level best in establishing the case beyond doubt while defence lawyer Biju Aloor took pains to defend the accused,” the judge said.
 
