The Indian players had an optional training session on Friday and 14 of the 15 players turned up at the Lord's Cricket Ground. A two-hour session, including a game of football followed by a light training session, rounded up the day’s activity and the players hurtled back to the Grange City Hotel in Cooper’s Row area of London, which has been highly secured following the recent Manchester incident.

 Through all of this, the player who was conspicuous by absence was  . Inquiries have revealed that the seasoned pro is down with fever. 
 
 Yuvraj was in jovial mood before the team took off to London on Wednesday night but what happened in between is not known. The team management is consulting doctors.
 
 The Yuvraj update has reached the   (BCCI) office here in Mumbai and some activity seems to be happening on that front. The team management thinks that the player will recover in a day.
 
 Neither the BCCI nor the team management is still talking of a replacement but how things will pan out in the next two days is to be seen.
 
 The talk of a replacement has not come up yet because the selection committee members are still not aware of this development. At the time of going to print, two selectors, including chairman MSK Prasad, were on their way to London. They could not be contacted.
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, a BCCI delegation will leave for Dubai on Sunday to have a dialogue with the members of the Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB). It is given that no series is possible between India and Pakistan without the permission of either government and given the current state of affairs along the LOC, there is little doubt on the immediate future of a bilateral series.
 
 So why then the exercise is being undertaken in the first place? The BCCI sources say it is mainly because the Indian board does not want to be seen indifferent to the PCB’s legal moves. It had recently sent a legal notice claiming a compensation of about $ 70 million breach in the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the boards.
 
 The Dubai talks are an initiative of the PCB and the BCCI does not want to be seen as being disinterested for a game. While it will reiterate the oft-repeated position, it will still attend the meeting so that there are no legal complications in future. It is likely that the Indian delegation, comprising Amitabh Choudhary, Rahul Johri and MV Sridhar, will take a lawyer will it. The PCB is understood to be doing the same.
 
 “There is nothing new in the situation. We had written to the government seeking their permission to play Pakistan three months ago. We issued them a reminder 15 days ago. We are yet to get a reply. Only the government can decide whether we can play Pakistan or not,” Choudhary was quoted as saying by a news agency on Thursday.
 
 He repeated the same when this paper contacted him. The BCCI has traditionally been opposed to playing bilateral series at neutral venues. The board may consider relaxing that practice for Pakistan -- as it cannot play at home -- but even to play in a place like UAE or Sri Lanka, the BCCI still has to have the government permission. The two countries have not played bilateral series since December 2012.
 
 
