PUNE: The excellent   in 2016 brought cheer across the state but it may not be so good for forests. 

 Experts say it has increased the chances of forest fires this summer because of the healthy grass cover. Nearly 60 small forest fires have already been reported around Pune.
 
 Deputy conservator of forests Satyajit   said, “The rainfall last year led to wild grass growth across various forest areas in the Pune region. However, with the onset of summer, the grass has begun to dry.”
 
 This dry grass makes it easier for forest fires to spread, he said. Gujar added that the 60 fires already reported were all small, isolated cases that did not spread beyond 1% (or 0.01) of a hectare.
 
 To combat this spread, the forest department has identified areas with dense dry grass and begun cutting the areas into smaller sections using fire lines. “The low spread of forest fires is due to this activity,” Gujar said.
 
 The introduction of the ‘Hello Forest’ helpline, number 1926, will also contribute to more reports of fire incidents. “All issues reported on the helpline are assigned to a range-level officer. This will make it easier for us to monitor the status of fire incidents,” he said.
 
 Fires still put out traditional way
 
 As most forest areas are not easily accessible, getting fire fighters to these spots is difficult. 
 
 The traditional technique involves thrashing the fire with shrubs to put it out. There is not much oil content in the trees and plants of   forests, so the fires are mostly ground fires spread through grass. Hence the local technique works well here, Gujar said. 
 
 As reported earlier, the department has also employed fire watchers at the village-level across all forest areas, who stand guard and report fire incidents.
 
 Modern tech not cost effective
 
 Gujar also said that the ‘loss per hectare’ is usually between Rs 400 and Rs 500 for a  . 
 
 “This does not justify employing any modern techniques such as air-drop or others, skewing the cost-effectiveness in favour of traditional techniques. However, the intrinsic value of the loss of green cover is much higher, as fire results in loss of habitat for wildlife as well as flora species,” Gujar said.
 
