DHOLA: India's longest bridge over the Brahmaputra in   has brought both hope and despair together.

 A couple of hours before Prime Minister   walked down a small stretch of the 9.15-km-long bridge to open it for millions of people of Assam and Arunachal Pradesh, it was the final moment for about 150 boatmen to lay anchor forever as there would be no one to take a boat ride to cross the mighty Brahmaputra from now on. It also meant an abrupt end to the livelihood of these men and their support staff of an estimated 2,000 people.
 
 It was the last day of business for numerous hotels that dot both sides of the banks at Dhola and Sadiya. There are about 1,000 people employed at these hotels.
 
 “I don't know what I will do now. In fact nobody among us knows,“ said Lalit Kachari, a boat owner at Sadiya. He added, “Today was the last day , 12 noon to be precise. For one last time, we carried passengers to Dhola, who were going to see and hear the Prime Minister when he opens the bridge.“
 
 Chief minister   told TOI that he was initiating some kind of rehabilitation for the boatmen and other people involved in the business. “Yes, we have been told by the government that we will be taken care of. But we haven't seen anything so far,“ said Naqib Ali, another boat owner.
 
 But for 60-year-old Mulan Mili, an   village headman from Roing in Arunachal Pradesh, the brid ge is the biggest boon that he could have received. Mili, along with eight other village headmen of his tribe, walked the entire length of the bridge after it was opened by Modi. He used to cross the river on boat since his childhood days.
 
 “We wanted to live our dream of a bridge and so we decided to walk the entire length. All along in the past, we have been taking boats which was time consuming. When we had to carry patients to Tinsukia, we had to wait hours for the boat and then spend another hour or so crossing the river. It's so good now.“
 
 Former Asom Gana Parishad legislator from Sadiya and now a   man, Jagadish Bhuyan, had written to former Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee in 2003 demanding construction of the bridge.
 
 Speaking to TOI at he venue of bridge opening, he said, “This is a dream come true for so many people.“
 
