BHUBANESWAR: The state   will serve the ‘taste of Odisha’ to its national leaders when they meet here on April 15-16.

 Trying to familiarize the party’s top guns with the state’s cuisine, in a way reflecting the state both in terms of its culture and electoral prospects in 2019, the organizers of the National Executive are preparing a typical Odia menu for the ‘power lunch.’
 
 There will be wide range of Odisha preparations to tickle the top saffron leaders’ taste buds when they brainstorm to capture Odisha in the next assembly elections.
 
 From panasa katha (jackfruit) curry to saga muga (greens with lentils), bari chura (a crispy dish prepared from black gram and water gourds), santula (mixed veg stew) and chakuli (pancakes) in the main course to mouth-watering sweet dishes such as poda pitha, arisa, chhena jhili, the elaborate menu plan seems the BJP is celebrating the Utkal Divas.
 
 “The idea is to showcase Odisha to the fullest before the Central leadership during the two days. Such a mega event is not happened here very often,” said BJP leader Dilip Mohanty, a member of the National Executive organizing team. 
 
 The catch is that the menu will be pure vegetarian. So, one may miss Machha Besara (fish in crushed mustard) and Chingudi bhaja (praw fry).
 
 The saffron party is preparing an air-conditioned venue of 80,000 square feet carpet area in Janata Maidan for the mega event. Around 300 workers of a Delhi-based event management company started work for preparing the site on Thursday after a bhumi puja by state unit president Basanta Panda.
 
 Apart from a conference hall with sitting arrangements for 350 persons, the venue will have a space for the Prime Minister office, where   and key   officers will discharge their official duties during the two days. There will also be a separate office space for party president   to be functional for three days from April 14 near the conference hall and a control room. Media briefings will be held in a hotel adjacent to the venue, BJP sources said.
 
 Modi will reach Bhubaneswar on April 15 afternoon and leave Odisha on April 16 night. The PM and home minister Rajnath Singh are likely to stay at Raj Bhawan while the saffron party has booked around 1000 hotel rooms for other senior leaders, Union ministers, dozen chief ministers of BJP-governed states besides officers and support staff members.
 
