Madurai: A division bench of the Madras high court Madurai bench headed by Justice M V Muralidaran on Friday directed the state   secretary to furnish details on the amount paid as retirement benefits and dues remaining to retired employees of the transport corporations in the state on May 30. 

 The order was issued on the basis of a letter written by one Mayandi Servai (82) from Madurai who claimed that a majority of retired employees of the state-run transport corporations had been living in penury and starvation due to non-payment of retirement benefits. In this backdrop, he wondered how a two-judge bench passed orders earlier directing the government to take action against transport workers involved in the indefinite strike under the Essential Services Maintenance Act ( ).
 
 Ten trade unions - LPF, CITU, AITUC, HMS, TTSF, DMTSP, MLF, PTS, AALLF and DWU, had called for indefinite strike from May 15 which threw life haywire. When a Madurai-based advocate took up the strike issue to the high court, the division bench comprising justices Muralidaran and Seshasayee directed the members of the trade unions to resume work immediately. They also warned them that ESMA would be slapped on workers failing to report following which the strike was called off.
 
 In his letter sent on a post card, Mayandi Servai said that he was yet to receive terminal benefits including monthly   from the government. Many retired employees had filed cases before both the Madras high court principal seat and its bench in Madurai. The court in turn had passed orders directing the government to pay the dues. But, the authority had not obeyed the orders, he said.
 
 Citing the letter which was converted to a PIL petition, the bench asked the government side, “(For) how long the issue of non-payment of retirement benefits to the employees is prevailing?” Additional government pleader D Raja Karthikeyan said the government had allotted Rs 1,250 crore to settle gratuity and retirement benefits and all issues will be settled in the next three months. Following this, the bench directed the transport secretary to file a detail report. 
 
 
