GURUGRAM: Ignored by the developer and the civic authorities,   have taken up the responsibility to build   on their own.

 The residents claimed to have spent money from their pockets to build  , put up streetlights and develop   in different blocks of the posh residential area after their repeated demands for the same fell on deaf ears.
 
 According to the residents, the roads were almost non-existent in blocks A, D, H and N till last year. During the last monsoon, the situation turned even worse, making travelling on those stretches almost impossible.
 
 “We had a flood-like situation in the area last monsoon with rainwater flowing into our basements. We were forced to take up things in our hands and raise the level of the roads. At least, we managed to save our cars,” said Rajeev Jhakkar, a resident living in the area.
 
 The residents built four lanes, each 200 metres long, in the four blocks last December. 
 
 Ramesh Gulati, a lawyer living in the block-A, echoed Jhakkar. 
 
 “We pooled in money to build motorable roads because we were tired of driving through non-existent stretches. So when our repeated pleas failed to get the builder or MCG to act, we made the roads ourselves. Then, earlier this month, we replaced the streetlights with LED lamps,” he added. 
 
 The block-A residents alone had to shell out around Rs 40 lakh on the road and streetlights, he claimed.
 
 Now, the residents are planning to convert a green area into a play zone for children. 
 
 “The residents are now considering making a play area for kids in the green zone. We are making dual payments to the developer and MCG, yet we have to shell out money to build the basic infrastructure,” Gulati added.
 
 Rajan Chawla, another resident, said bureaucrats and politicians should visit the area and take stock of the infrastructure here. 
 
 “No one is bothered about our plight. Everything here is being done by the residents… it is the failure of the government machinery,” he said.
 
 “We are not legally authorised to take up the repair/construction work in the area unless we take it over. Once we have the amendment in place, we will start the infra works,” said a senior MCG official.
 
 The developer,  , could not be contacted for its comment. 
 
 
