NAGPUR: Pravin Gaikwad, Maharashtra state leader of Shetkari Kamgar Paksh, feels the world views   in a very negative light. “Our people believe that reservation is a hindrance in progress. The country can never move forward as long as reservation exists. But that is very incorrect,” he said on Monday.

 Gaikwad, a former president of Sambhaji Brigade, is also an educationist who has been felicitated in 40 countries. He added, “The scheduled tribes, scheduled castes and other backward classes have a lot of potential. Most of the OBC members aren't even aware of facilities like reservation. Making them aware of it will help us nurture true talent which will in turn facilitate nation building.”
 
 He was speaking at a lecture on ‘Dr Panjabrao   aani arakshan’, organized by Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Adhyayan Kendra at Dhanwate National College (DNC) and Science College at Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh Smruti Sabhagruha, DNC,  , on Monday. “Both Panjabrao Deshmukh and Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj started schools and colleges for girls and boys and encouraged parents to send their wards to schools. In fact, Shahu Maharaj penalized families who didn't send their children to school and awarded those who did,” said Pravin Gaikwad, Maharashtra state leader of Shetkari Kamgar Paksh.
 
 He also drew similarities between Babasaheb Ambedkar and Deshmukh. “Both fought their whole lives against suppression of backward classes.” 
 
 “The practice of reservation was originally started by Mahatma Phule. It was then followed by Babasaheb Ambedkar and Panjabrao Deshmukh. The latter has worked extremely hard towards the cause of reservation. If we stop viewing reservation negatively we will truly understand its potential in turning India into a developed nation,” he said.
 
 Babanrao Taywade, principal of Dhanwate National College, presided over. Those present on the dais included PS Changole, DK Burghate, Taywade and ST Deshmukh. The event began with garlanding the portraits of Mahatma Phule, Babasaheb Ambedkar and Panjabrao Deshmukh.
 
