His hands and his magic fingers are our national treasure and the world applauds him as the master of percussion. Rightly so. Ustad   is a genius, a guru, a game changer. And just like he rouses music lovers with his rhythms, off stage, the tabla maestro charmingly draws you into a conversation, where you dare miss a single beat. Sitting in his Nepean Sea Road apartment, in a crisp white kurta and his trademark curly mop of hair, the musician who is celebrated for being the best, nonchalantly tells us that he doesn’t believe there’s anything like the best. Or perfection, for that matter. The chat is long and free-flowing, and we talk about the religion of music, his rockstar ambitions and of course, the rich legacy of his father Ustad Allarakha. And long after the conversation is over, when he stops, the drumroll stays on in the head...

 
 The barsi on February 3 is not to glorify the house of Allarakha. It’s more about the music and culture that my father represented. We happen to be one of the keepers on this planet of one of the great traditions of art, so the barsi is about all those people who relate to this way of life through music. It is about like-minded people getting together to tell stories around the fire, and while doing that, they touch upon their experiences with the greats who have come before them. My father happens to be one of them, so that is basically the excuse for the barsi. From inception, the idea was never to turn it into a professional engagement, where I send requests to artistes to perform. Whoever wants to be a part of it reaches out to me. Now, there is an added selfish element on my part, wherein I use this as a stepping stone for projects. This year we are doing Cross Currents involving Dave Holland,  , Louiz Banks, Shankar Mahadevan, Sanjay Divecha and Gino Banks; we plan to take it on the road. We use this platform as a salon where we can showcase our work in progress and see if there is merit to it. The barsi has become a feeder for such projects, as it also gives birth to new ideas. If singers who are performing in the morning want to sing a thumri and an evening raga, they can do it. We are breaking form and allowing musicians to stretch their imagination as artistes, where they are not expected to do the same old thing that is expected of them.
 
 
 Nowadays, everything is evolving fast. Until about the 70-80s, there were slight differences in the music, but since the early 90s, the changes have been drastic. You are listening to a beautiful song by Laxmikant-Pyarelal and suddenly you hear a hip-hop version of a song from AR Rahman or Salim-Sulaiman. It’s like being on two different sides of the Grand Canyon, with no bridge in between. It is difficult for the purists to grasp it and they haven’t had enough time to grow into it. The differences are obvious; now nothing grows on you and becomes a part of you. It is like sampling music and moving on. The lasting effect of any kind of music and arts is limited now. Mostly, you are experiencing visual arts on your computer.
 
 
 Yes, so now when you’re downloading music, you don’t have an album cover, so you have no idea what the music composer is trying to express. Nowadays, it is all about beats. For instance, Jay Z calls his computer programmer and asks him to send a good beat and a loop, so that he can come up with a rap. The whole process of creating music has changed. If you ask Justin Timberlake his experience of making an album and working with other musicians, he will say, ‘What other musicians?’ His producer has put these tracks together, while he’s sitting in his studio somewhere else and singing along with it. He is not even part of the creative process. It is like he has been sent a mannequin with the suit on and he needs to put the tie on for him. So the way music is created has changed in that sense; it’s not bad, it’s just different. In our days, while recording a song for Laxmikant-Pyarelalji or OP Nayyar, if one of the 50 musicians made a mistake, we would have to stop and start all over again. We all witnessed the magic happening. Now the process is less imposing, but of course, there are advantages to it, too.
 
 
 I still want to be a rockstar, doesn’t everyone want to be one? With all the glamour, bling, and jackets. When you are young, you want the heaven and the universe, and you want it right then. I was no different. I wanted to be somebody who had the world at my beck and call. I attached success to being famous, which is not necessarily true. For a while I revelled in that, and I enjoyed being a drummer in a rock band and standing next to the lead singer. I was set straight by people who knew better, like   and John McLaughlin. They turned around and told me, ‘Zakir, you are here because you have something unique to offer. If we want a drummer, there are 500 out there who understand our world of music better.’ I realised that being a tabla player is not a disadvantage and outside India, that’s what they were looking for. And that’s what I ended up doing. I took my tabla and transposed the world of rhythm on it. I can play Latin, jazz, hip-hop and can hang out with Western classical musicians. I made the tabla become that. From the world of glam, I came to the world of senses, and in the end there was a lasting effect of acceptability. 
 
 
 In the creative world, nothing comes easy. I mean even when you are the son of a famous actor, you still have to build your six packs. You have to learn to act and dance, too. In every world there is a lot of hard work and sometimes, you will run into a wall and will want to do something, but it won’t happen. And in the world of creative arts, nothing is written in stone, as we have to be spontaneously creative and conjure up a beautiful musical image out of nothing. We have heard stories about   sitting for days in front of the typewriter, with no words typed. Then suddenly, one day something strikes and the words start flowing again. We all go through it, I have, too. I know masters like   and McLaughlin have experienced it. Those times will come and they will go away, too.
 
 
 Of course, I am not. How can I be the best tabla player? For me, there is no such thing as best. It is a four-letter word. It is very subjective. I can’t say that today I have seen the best sunset, because tomorrow it could be better. I also think that there is no such thing as perfection. I know that today when the subject of tabla and rhythms arises, everybody wants to talk to me about it. I remember earlier, when I would be flying from San Francisco to Los Angeles, and when the guy next to me would start chatting with me and learn that I was a musician from India, he would instantly exclaim, ‘Oh, Ravi Shankar!’ Everyone knew him, but they didn’t know Vilayat Khan, Rais Khan, Nikhil Banerjee or the other great sitar players who were around at the same time. Now, while talking about Indian rhythms they say, ‘Oh Zakir Hussain!’ It’s because they have heard my name and my name is on the marquee. In the meanwhile, there are Kumar Bose, Sabir Khan, Subhankar Banerjee, Fazal Qureshi, Satyajit Talwalkar, Aditya Kalyanpur and a host of fab tabla players. People have just not taken the time out to find out about them, and know about what’s happening in that world. There are other tabla players who are just as good and on their day, they are better than me. I have seen that. It is what it is, and there is nothing to be ashamed of. I am happy to be one of them, as they are great. I feel flattered to sit in their company. 
 
 
 I guess it is lack of time and the lengthy process that’s involved. I have composed for movies, but only when the schedule was pre-organised. With big banners, the schedules are often unpredictable. This is the world I grew up in, it has incredible amount of draw for me, and I think composing for a film is a very creative and challenging process.
 
 
 I can only give you my view. I think music and politics don’t belong together. I believe that religion and politics don’t belong together. Every artiste who gets involved politically, it is his or her personal decision. We live in a democracy and that should be allowed. It is someone’s personal opinion and it has got nothing to do with the person getting on stage and singing a raga, or playing a character on screen. I think people should not tie creative people’s work to either politics or religion. Music and art is a religion in itself. Artistes have a universal way of life and we all work with each other. No one bothers if you are a Hindu or a Muslim; the question does not even arise. To plant that seed in our interaction is not necessary. By doing that, in some ways, people are polluting the vibes that flow between artistes. As far as I am concerned, any artiste is free to be able to express his or her opinion in terms of politics or religion. But for the rest of the world to take that person’s personal point of view and mix it with his art and creativity, is not right.
 
  
  
