BHOPAL: At a time when Madhya Pradesh is staring at a drought, a controversy has erupted over release of water from Indira Sagar Dam in MP to   in the run-up to its inauguration.

 Highly placed sources say the MP government released 650mcm water from Indira Sagar to SSD from September 11-15 so that its water level rises to 130 metres. Two days later, Prime Minister   dedicated Sardar Sarovar Dam to the nation.
 
 While officials of Narmada Valley Development Authority ( ) said water release is routine to “meet power generation needs”, Narmada Bachao Andolan activists claim it was uncalled for when there is a dearth of water in the state and most dams are running low. This much water would have irrigated 2 lakh hectare land, they say. Officials told TOI that Madhya Pradesh used 35.54 lakh units of power produced by Sardar Sarovar Dam from September 11-15. This is merely 0.41% of the 85 crore units of power used in the state during that period.
 
 TOI has a copy of an advisory issued by Khandwa district collector Abhisheik Singh, dated September 10, to collectors and SPs of Khargone, Barwani, Dewas and Dhar districts to be vigilant during release of water from the dam due to ‘incessant rain’. NBA leaders say it hardly rained during that period.
 
 The Indira Sagar water level stood at 253 meters — 10 meters short of full-tank level — when water was released, say sources. “This is a show-off by the Madhya Pradesh government at the cost of livelihood of poor people in the state. The irony is that Gujarat received heavy rains this season and there was no need for extra release of water,” said NBA’s Alok Agarwal, adding that farmers in the region are going to face massive problems. “As a rule, priority is given to drinking water and then irrigation. Power should be the last leg. If turbines were operated amid shortage of water, it amounts to culpable offence,” said an activist.
 
 NVDA vice-chairman Rajneesh Vaisha initially denied that water was released from IS dam but later agreed that only “excess water would have been released”. “It is a regular future, based of demands raised by   ( ),” he said. 
 
