HYDERABAD: With just two months away for the likely launch of Hyderabad Metro rail, there is no clarity on which police unit will provide the crucial security cover to the city's future lifeline.

 In all probability, Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda police units might share the burden since   is unwilling to pay `cost' to   (SPF), a specialised unit. However, officials claim the nitty-gritties were still being worked out and a final decision might be taken in the next two or three weeks. Chief secretary SP Singh had recently issued an order outlining distribution of security-related work responsibilities between police and the metro rail concessionaire L&T.The order was issued after three or four rounds of meetings between various stakeholders, including HMRL, police and L&T, in the last one year.
 
 In simple terms, the GO stated that internal security at each stationjunction was that of the concessionaire, while external security of police. In all probability, the external security responsibility might be given to respective commissionerates depending on the location of the stations junctions. Local police units might be given the brief to handle the external security of Metro stations and junctions. However, the moot question is whether local police would be able to provide security, especially armed security, at each metro station? For Delhi Metro, Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) provides integrated security cover. Apart from armed security, CISF personnel carry out frisking and baggage scanning operations. Already, the three commissionerates were reeling under severe staff crunch. With just two months away, can local police personnel be trained for the specialised requirement?
 
 When contacted, HMRL managing director NVS Reddy clarified that all stations would have foolproof security.
 
 “There will be foolproof security system in place. Already , DGP and commissioners are working out the modalities(external security). There will be 360 degree cameras and other gadgets, which we cannot disclose for security reasons. We want to depend more on technology and not just manpower for security. We will announce the final mechanism in the next two or three weeks,'' Reddy said, claiming it would be on par with Delhi Metro.
 
 Ever since officials started drawing up the metro security blueprint, several changes to ok place. Earlier, it was mooted to have a dedicated security police force for HMRL. However, the proposal was shot down by the powers that be and Special Protection Force (SPF), a unit which was created on the lines of CISF for state requirements, was brought into the picture.
 
 Director-General (SPF)   told TOI that SPF personnel were trained for the task (metro security), but the metro rail honchos found the services too costly . Later, a committee, headed by T  , now Director-General (Road Safety and Railways), was given the brief to study the security requirements for metro rail and submit a report. The officer studied various metro services in the country, including Delhi, and gave a report some time ago. It is learnt that the committee recommended a specialised force. Telangana police brass too felt that a specialised unit would be useful to handle the responsibility.
 
