HYDERABAD: Students seeking admission to junior colleges, beware. For so far, only 50 per cent these colleges in the state have been accorded affiliation by the   ( ).
Here's what the official records reveal: As many as 1,572   applied for affiliation, only 785 have been granted the same for the 2017-18 academic year.The affiliation of another 787 colleges is pending as the TSBIE has sought more documents for clarification.
 
 “There are several colle ges that have not fulfilled basic norms related to fire safety, sanitation, infrastructure among others. Many have not submitted relevant documents and, hence, their applications have been returned. Once they meet the norms, affiliations will be granted,“ said an official from TSBIE.
 
 Reportedly, during the 2016-17 academic year, students of Sri Vasavi Junior College, Vanasthalipuram, were forced to give their scheduled intermediate public examination a miss after it was unearthed that the institute did not have the mandatory affiliation. It took special intervention from TSBIE to eventually ensure that the candidates took the test on a later date.
 
 It is to avoid such a repetition that experts are now insisting on students knowing the affiliation status of their choice of colleges, before the second phase of seat allotment commences.
 
 “If students seek admission to unaffiliated colleges, they may not be issued hall tickets for the class 12 examination. Therefore, it is of utmost importance that students verify the college affiliation status before going ahead and securing a seat,“ said B Vidya Lankar, former principal of a government junior college. Government sources rei terate the concern. Particularly because there is a staggering 304 unaffiliated colleges in the state at present that have over one lakh second year intermediate students enrolled in various courses. “The government is now examining the situation following which it will decide the fate of students -whether to shift them to other affiliated colleges or make other alternative arrangements. The board does not want a repetition of Vasavi college incident,“ said the TSBIE official, adding that they are expecting a response from the state government in the next two to three days.
 
 College managements meanwhile, squarely put the blame on the TSBIE for this affiliation chaos. “For simple issues such as inability to upload staff details, the TSBIE is rejecting our applications. The agenda seems to be clear -the TSBIE wants to give priority to government colleges and neglect private managements,“ said Narender Reddy, president of the Telangana Private Junior College Managements Association, while simultaneously lashing out at the government for failing to clear fee reimbursement dues to the tune of Rs 200 crore.
 
