Raniganj (Pratapgarh): BJP chief   claims his party will secure a two-thirds majority in the 
  . A confident Shah says BJP has no real challenger left as Samajwadi Party has knocked itself out of the reckoning by 
  to   which has no presence in the state. He says the saffron party is the strongest contender across the state. TOI's 
 reports excerpts from a conversation with a group of reporters during electioneering on Thursday.

 
 
 The incumbency factor which helped us in 2014 is even stronger. Moreover, BJP has grown stronger. We have extended our reach to the level of booths, while socially speaking, our inclusive approach has helped us draw in new groups. I have been touring the state since November and am confident about our performance.
 
 
 
 I was referring to the first two phases where BSP has always been stronger than SP.
 
 
 
 
 They were but chief minister   has badly hurt himself by leaving 103 seats for Congress which has no existence in the state. They are stronger than BSP in certain areas, while the latter also has pockets of strength.The issue of who is BJP's chief rival changes from one constituency to another but we remain the strongest contender across the state.
 
 
 
 You are forgetting something which happened in 2014 when BJP swept the   polls. I think it deserves to be taken note of too.
 
 
 
 We have appealed for support on the strength of our promises which are for the betterment of all. How can you say that the promise of farm loan waiver will benefit one community and inconvenience another?
 
 
 
 
 
 He is a five-term member of Lok Sabha and a leader who has stature. Why should not he campaign?
 
 
 
 Absolutely not. This is meant to end harassment of students by rowdies. This is a serious problem.
 
 
 
 
 You have not been mild on BSP too.Our campaign is against the incumbent and SP and Congress share the slot.Congress has attracted incumbency by aligning with SP. We don't spare BSP , but the fact remains that it is the SP which is the incumbent.
 
 
 
 For instance?
 
 
 
 
 First of all, this scheme is not unique to UP . What we have promised is to increase its frequency and reliability.We have said that we will ensure that an ambulance will reach you within 15 minutes of your call.
 
 
 
 
 I agree that UP is on the verge of a major change in the political and social dynamics. BJP will benefit from what might unfold.
 
 
 
 It no doubt led to inconvenience, but normalcy has been restored and there have been benefits too. It has been welcomed by a large section and will help us. And I think that the far bigger concern for our supporters is the lawlessness. As many as 13 traders have been killed since elections started.
 
 
 
 We will win in  , and we will better our tally in Goa by at least five seats.There was a close triangular contest in Punjab and nothing can be said with certainty.
 
 
 
 It will certainly be good for the country.
 
 
