NEW DELHI: The   exercise has increased the number of municipal wards in the Burari assembly constituency from four to six. The scaling down of the size of wards and the reshuffling of the colonies have sent the calculations of local politicians awry, though these have raised the aspirations of some residents of the mostly neglected semi-urban areas.

 “We hope that with smaller geographical areas to look after, our new councillors will address our problems   efficiently,” said KP Singh in Burari village. “The municipal corporation has always failed us. It is as if we cease to exist once the elections are over.” 
 
 The civic problems in Burari, Mukundpur, Sant Nagar and Jharoda wards can perhaps be traced to the fact that apart from a few villages, almost three quarters of this region consist of unauthorised, semi-urban colonies. From the problem of stray cattle in central Burari and non-existent roads in the colonies to heavy encroachment and choked drainage lines in Sant Nagar, each ward in this assembly constituency of over 3.8 lakh people has its own set of problems. “Since the colonies have come up haphazardly on agricultural land, there are no planned garbage dhalaos. That is why the drains are choked,” explained Ashok Kumar in Mukundpur. 
 
 Because the municipal corporation is only tasked with disposal of garbage and cleaning of drains in unauthorised colonies, with construction and repair of civic amenities the responsibility of DSIIDC, the region has naturally been deprived. On top of that, people complain, political will is missing.  , a retired teacher, argued, “Even if they have 12 councillors from this region, nothing will change unless the system changes. A hardworking councillor can transform a bigger area, but here they just keep on passing the buck from one agency to another.”
 
 Gulab Singh Rathore, councillor from Mukandpur for the past decade, opined that the newly delimited wards would increase civic problems, rather than solve them. The councillor from Jharoda, Raj Pal Rana, claimed that despite the reduction in the sizes of the administrative areas, there wouldn’t be much benefit unless the municipal corporation changed its policy on keeping mostly out of unauthorised colonies. 
 
 While some residents are happy about getting more representation, many are not convinced with the argument of smaller wards becoming automatically more efficient. In contrast, however, there is palpable excitement in Kadipur and Kamalpur, the newly created wards, where the people were positive about hastened development in their wards.
 
 
