CHENNAI: For actor  , it was as recent as July 2016 that she came to terms with being diagnosed as clinically depressed, while for dancer  , the battle began 28 years ago, when a counsellor in the US told her she was a “classic case of pre-partum depression“.

 Both artists dealt with their realities in different ways -Gowda sought out medical help, while Ratnam, a firm believer in the naturopathy, chose to battle it on her own. On World Health Day, which this year, explores the theme of `Depression -Let Us Talk', Gowda and Ratnam talk about how they tuned out the darkness that was threatening to take over their lives.
 
 Sports, not art helped me battle depression:
 
 Anita Ratnam “It was 28 years ago and while on the one hand I was expecting my second child, on the other my marriage was falling apart,“ says Ratnam, who was working in the US at the time. After weeks of “feeling low“ and not wanting to step out of the house, wake up, or “even put one foot in front of the other“, Ratnam decided to see a counsellor.
 
 “I was told that I had pre-partum depression because of what was going on in my life and I needed to see a psychiatrist. But I chose not to, as my family and I were brought up on natural remedies. I chose to battle my depression myself especially since I was pregnant at the time,“ says Ratnam, adding that though the battle was long and hard, she knew it was about staying determined right through. “It is a question of mind over matter even to this day, when like a lot of women out there I have times when I am still vulnerable,“ says Ratnam. “I firmly believe it was sport and the support I found in my mother that got me through my bad phases,“ says Ratnam, who played and continues to play tennis, swim and run to keep herself fit.“I'm not saying my art did not help me but it was sport that got me through my moments in the shad ow,“ she says. “I can never say it will never happen again.
 
 Just as I cannot say there is one pathway to over come depression. I just chose positivity as mine.“
 
 Seek help as early as possible:
 
 Akshara Gowda “People try to mask their depression,“ says Akshara.
 
 “I decided to face it.“ After try ing to overcome her “low phas es“ on her own, in July last year, the actress decided to seek medical intervention. After six months of treatment that involved medication and therapy, the actor -who was last seen in the Tamil film `Bogan' that released in February -says she has no qualms talking to people about depression.
 
 “I know there are people in the industry who prefer not to open up because of the stigma attached to depression. I come from a conservative family too and it took me a few years before I sought help. Now I wonder why I waited so long,“ says the actor, who will be in Chennai on Friday to speak as a survivor of depression at an open-to-all seminar at the Music Academy organised by the  .Gowda adds there were times her depression led to an eating disorder, insomnia, weight loss, and back and neck pain. “I chose to go on Facebook Live and tell people about my path to recovery because if it can help at least one more person out there, I've done my bit,“ she says.
 
