JODHPUR: Once again Union external affairs minister   has come to the rescue of a   who is of foreign origin. 

 Peru citizen  , who had married to a Jodhpur-based businessman working in Hong Kong in March 2012, has been looking forward to extend her visa which will expire on Thursday. 
 
 Without having any bank account and money at her disposal, the bride applied for the extension of her visa at the   (FRRO) on Wednesday with the financial aid of a local businessman.
 
 An FRRO official confirmed that she had applied for the extension of visa and said as office of foreign ministry is involved, she might get the permission by Thursday itself.
 
 Carmen is married to Yogesh and after the birth of their first daughter, the couple had shifted to Jodhpur in 2013. Yogesh kept her in the dark as he didn’t tell Carmen about his resignation and only after coming to Jodhpur, he narrated the whole story.
 
 Carmen alleged that she was subjected to ill-treatment by her husband and in-laws, which was getting intolerable and hence she shifted to Thane and started her own business.
 
 But as she had no bank accounts in her name, she had to depend on the bank account of her husband, who kept her passport in his possession and kept turning down her repeated requests to get her the certificate of overseas citizen of India.
 
 Without having any option, she tweeted to Sushma Swaraj seeking her intervention in the matter by apprising Swaraj of all plight she went and getting her visa extended, which was expiring on January 12. In reply, she was assured of all assistance by Swaraj.
 
 She said that her husband did not even ever try to get their marriage registered either in India or in Hong Kong. “This is just making me to doubt over his intentions more,” she wrote.
 
 She said that she wanted to go back to her country but could not as she was unwilling to leave her daughter and a son behind with her husband. Both children are living with her currently.
 
 After applying for the extension of visa, she went to the police station and filed a complaint of domestic violence against her husband.
 
 
