HYDERABAD: A mid the hustle and bustle of the glittering bangle markets of Lad Bazaar, a little over 200 metres west of the historic Charminar, is the  . Once a listed heritage structure, it was part of a grand gateway to the   palace. But all that remains of it now is the arch, which like many other structures of its era, is crumbling due to disrepair and apathy. 

 Originally an integral part of the Chowmahalla Palace, the Shahi Jilu Khana, or the staging court, is now sandwiched between two structures of brick and concrete. While these two new buildings seem strong and secure, the Shahi Jilu Khana kamaan or gateway lies sadly exposed. On the one hand, the concrete structures are relatively new and in use. 
 
 On the other hand, the archway is decrepit, with its stones exposed after large portions of plaster peeled off or withered away over time.
 
 As is the case with several structures in the Charminar heritage precinct, the kamaan too is a victim of encroachments, a result of successive governments' unwillingness to deal with them in a quick fashion. Those in the know said that the kamaan, a remnant of a bygone era, could have been saved had these gover nments taken remedial measures or incentivized conservation.
 
 “The last elected   body had agreed to earmark Rs 100 crore for heritage preservation. There were talks of conserving gateways. But no money was spent from these funds. These funds could have quickly been used for the kamaan of the Jilu Khana. It would have looked splendid,“ said an official who did not wish to be identified.
 
 The Repair Fund, a stipulation of the then legitimate  , also did not spend money for the upkeep of the arch. “That could not be done because the committee did not have teeth. There was little that could be done,“ an expert said.
 
 Now, with the Regulation 13 scrapped and the Shahi Jilu Khana kamaan not finding a mention in the lists of heritage structures to be preserved under the new Telangana Heritage (Protection, Preservation, Conservation and Maintenance) Act, 2017, the structure is more vulnerable to encroachments. Even the protection which was earlier guaranteed on paper no longer exists.
 
 “It is one of the first structures constructed by the  ,“ said heritage aficionado Mohammed Safiullah, highlighting the need to preserve it.
 
 Experts said that the structure was constructed in the 1760s and served as a staging court, welcoming aristocrats, noblemen and other persons of repute to the Asaf Jah palace. From the base, the highest point of the kamaan is around 23 feet high. There are two balconies on either side of this arch, their doors bolted shut. It has four small minaret-like projections.
 
