NEW DELHI: When a doctor now tells you to open your mouth, it might not be simply to say “aah”. That is because the   wants to curb the trend of physicians spending little time talking to or listening to their patients. The medical body has started the ‘Sun Toh Lo (Please Listen)’ campaign to educate its members on the diagnostic and clinical benefits of giving   a, well, patient hearing.

 “A doctor’s ability to listen, understand and empathise with the patient has profound implications on clinical outcomes,” Dr  , president of  , told TOI. He revealed that studies centring on patient-doctor communication have found that, on average, physicians wait a mere 18 seconds before interrupting a patient’s narrative.
 
 Referring to this, Dr Ajay K Singh, senior associate dean for global and continuing education at Harvard Medical School, who delivered a lecture in New Delhi and Ghaziabad on maximising hospital safety and improving outcomes on Tuesday and Wednesday, said that in the US new patients get a consultation time of nearly 40 minutes, while follow-up cases are given 20 minutes. “In India, the number of patients is overwhelming and in government hospitals,   have to see nearly 100 patients in four hours,” despaired Singh. “In private hospitals too, the time spent on consultation is less than desired.”
 
 The reality of the Indian doctor-patient interaction can be gauged from the union finance ministry’s recommendation that the strength of the doctoral staff at hospitals should be determined on the requirement of a doctor to spend 4 minutes with each patient. Opposed to such measly rationing of time, the IMA president said, “For doctors, the skill of listening can help build the tone of a patient-doctor interaction. Patients also feel more cared for and this enables the doctor to do a more effective job.”
 
 One medical setback that results from terse doctor-patient conversations, which by its nature precludes detailed discussion of the patient’s medical history, is adverse drug interactions. Experts have also pointed out that the recurring problem in Indian hospitals of violence and confrontations between hospital staff and patients and their families arises mainly because of lack of communication.
 
 “Physicians increasingly depend more on test results than clinical assessment for diagnosis,” pointed out Nikhil Kumar, a patient. To wean doctors away from this trend, IMA will use social media to spread the   message, while putting up the subject for discussion at seminars and in meetings among its several branches.
 
 According to the American College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, the outcome of treatment often depends on successful communication between the doctor and the patient. “The physician who encourages open communication may obtain more complete information, enhance the prospect of a more accurate diagnosis, and facilitate appropriate counselling, thus potentially improving adherence to treatment plans that benefits long-term health,” ACOG says.
 
 
