When her filmmaker friend   asked her to play the lead in her Punjabi short film, 'I Am Not Talking To You',   told her she was too old for the part and that someone of the age and calibre of a Tabu or a Manisha Koirala would be more suited for the part. Gitanjali returned with a new proposal for the 65-year-old actress, wanting her to sing the background score.

  
  
 "She told me that Navneet Virk had already written the lyrics,   would be composing it and the recording studio had been booked. I was both flattered and amused by her confidence in me but it wasn't till Paresh and she showed up at home, asking me to sing the scale I was comfortable with, that I realised she was serious," reminisces Deepti, who after two days of riyaaz made her debut as a singer with ' ' which translates as 'friendship with flight' and addresses a kite flying in the sky. "It helped me showcase the vibrant, spirited person inside me, smiling freely at the world." 
 
 Deepti was five when her mother enrolled her in a music class. A quick learner, she soon knew all the ragas by heart, continuing her coaching till she was 10. Once she moved to the US in her teens, she took up painting and other fine arts, eventually finding her way into cinema. 
 
 "'Chashme Buddoor', 'Kamla', 'Mirch Masala', 'Ankahee' allowed me to play incredibly strong and intense characters on screen. Away from the camera, music became my stress buster. I wanted to take it up professionally and even joined Suresh Wadkar's music school, 'Ajivasan', but had to quit because of my erratic timings," she sighs, adding that she is planning to go back to the school with this song on her CV so the teachers take her more seriously. "And once they teach me properly, my music can be a stress buster for everyone," she laughs. 
 
 Her all-time favourite singer is two-time Academy Award, 10-time Grammy and nine-time   winner Barbra Streisand and while she can bury herself in English classics, Deepti acknowledges that today, Punjabi is the flavour of the season. "I used to complain that no one wrote Urdu songs anymore and was disappointed by the influx of Punjabi songs but now after singing one I've realised that it celebrates life," she admits.
 
 Deepti envies those who can live their life through music. She insists that songs are not only to be heard but understood, smelt and felt too, and the process cannot be rushed. "It has to be brewed with love. Ek baat toh pakki hai, no matter how old I become, I will always be a die hard romantic and this is my first step into a new world of romanticism," she smiles.
 
  
  
 
  
  
