GURUGRAM: An employee of a pub in   was arrested and three bouncers detained on Wednesday for allegedly   an   businessman and his two friends in the early hours of Tuesday. Police said the accused employee, Roopak, and the three bouncers were identified with the help of the CCTV footage collected from the pub. Police, however, are yet to reveal the names of the bouncers.

 “When the bartender asked the customers to leave, the trio, including the NRI, insisted that they give some more time to finish their drinks. But the pub manager objected their demand and said they were closing for the day. This led to altercation between the customers and pub employees. Soon, bouncers, who were called in, started thrashing them,” the police officer said.
 
 Complainant Rahul Laxman, according to his brother Nitesh, just tried to intervene and save his friends from the bouncers, but they thrashed him badly. Rahul suffered injuries on head. The bar bouncers beat up the guests brutally over minor altercation, Nitesh said, adding that he expected a strict action against the accused from police.
 
 Rahul, who lives in the UK, and his two friends — Ishant Aggarwal and Sidharth — went to The Wine Company in Cyber Hub, along with a woman, to spend an evening together. The woman left the pub after a few hours, but the trio stayed on. However, Rahul claimed that the bouncers attacked them as they were trying to solve the issue. “They beat us up with baseball bats,” he alleged.
 
 Acting on the complaint of Rahul, police registered an FIR against the bar employee and bouncers under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (unlawful assembly), 323 (causing hurt), 324 (causing hurt by dangerous weapon), 325 (for voluntarily causing grievous hurt) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC at DLF-II police station on Tuesday evening.
 
 “The investigation is under way. We have arrested a bar employee and detained 3 bouncers. If found guilty, the bouncers will be arrested,” said inspector Sudeep Kumar, station house officer of DLF-II police station.
 
 A statement issued by The Wine Company claimed that the NRI and his friends misbehaved with its staffers and threw glasses. “Our wine sommelier Roopak intervened, but was brutally assaulted and dragged across the restaurant with his neck being choked,” the statement said. The Wine Company “has only two bouncers who later intervened and escorted the guests out of the restaurant”. 
 
 The statement further said that the guests kept screaming “how well-connected they were and how they would destroy the restaurant within a few hours”.
 
 “Mr Rahul Laxman even picked a fight with passerbuys in Cyber Hub and in the process fell on the floor and started bleeding from his mouth. We have submitted the footage of the scuffle to police and will cooperate with the investigators,” the statement added.
 
 
