AURANGABAD: The   who might not meet the deadline for completing the much hyped Rs 365-crore project for up gradation of city’s   have blamed the railways for delaying laying of pipes at some locations. However, the railways denied that it is causing any delay. 

 Afsar Siddique executive engineer in the   (AMC) told TOI on Thursday that the work is moving at a snail’s pace at four to five areas where main drainage lines are intersecting railway tracks. “We need permission from the railways to lay the underground drainage line. We have already applied for the permission but it is still pending,” he said, adding that the intersections are crucial points in the line and hence it might cause delay to the project. 
 
 When contacted,  , divisional railway manager, Nanded denied that railways is causing any delay. On the contrary, he said, “The civic body can go ahead and lay the underground line without even waiting for our permission. Our senior engineers are aware of the project and they will help the municipal authorities.”
 
 The project was launched on August 23, 2014 and is expected to be complete in three years. But, the civic body could complete only 58% of the total work so far. 
 
 Besides the railway tracks, there are at least 11 spots where residential and commercial complexes are also hindering the work. 
 
 Multi-storeyed buildings and narrow passages of various ‘nullahs’ are making it difficult for the authorities to execute the project. For the past two years, the AMC is struggling to clear the passages. On some locations, the authorities have made minor changes and managed to lay the lines but 11 spots are still giving trouble. 
 
 Siddique said negotiations with the affected property owners are going on. “We are sure that these spots will be taken care of very soon,” he added. 
 
 Most of these 11 spots are very crucial and the municipal authorities appear to have no other option but to demolish the affected structure. But sources told TOI that the AMC might take significant time to decide the fate of the affected structures. 
 
 At Gomtesh Market, the proposed drainage line will pass below a multi-storeyed building built on the path of a nullah. At some other spots, the municipal body will have to demolish the structures to pave the way for the drainage line. At two spots, the line is passing through densely populated areas, where over 25 residential properties are coming on the way of drainage line.
 
 Final instalment of central funds soon: The civic body is set to receive central government funds Rs of 125 crore for the project within the next 15 to 20 days. 
 
 Siddique said the central government has sanctioned the fund to the state government, which will soon allot it to the civic body. It is the final instalment from the Centre for the project cost. 
 
