CHENNAI: For several days after two ships collided off the   in the early hours of January 28, there was a well-founded fear among port and shipping officials that the seriously damaged Dawn   would sink and spill all the 45,000 tonnes of petroleum products it was carrying into the sea.

 With the vessel practically stranded two nautical miles from the port, the fear led to some anxious back-and-forth between various agencies over whether the best option was to bring the ship into the port to discharge the cargo or arrange for a ship-to-ship transfer at sea to empty out the cargo oil and safeguard against a massive   -nearly 1,000 times more oil than was actually spilled. The ship was eventually brought in on January 30, apparently without the cargo oil spilling out.
 
 As BW Maple, the LPG carrier, plunged into Dawn Kanchipuram, the collision not only ruptured the void space between the inner and outer walls (hull) of the ship, but likely ruptured a fuel tank too. Conflicting reports have emerged over whether a slop tank ruptured too.
 
 In an oil tanker, the slop tank stores cargo oil residue and oil-water mixture that is produced during cleaning of tanks. Port officials maintain that the oil that washed ashore was the ship's fuel oil, not the cargo oil or residue, and that, regarding the initial low estimate of the quantity of the oil spilled, they went by what the ship staff told them.
 
 As an outcome of the collision, sea water had also started entering the engine room, which is among the worst possible flooding scenarios for a merchant ship. The word, `room', is a misnomer since the engine room is typically the largest compartment in the ship and houses nearly all shipboard machinery . Flooding of the engine room would have decapitated shipboard power and machinery . It would have also affected the balance of the ship although experts say it is open to question if the ship would have sunk. “ A ship whose engine room gets flooded up to the water level need not sink,“ says P Krishnankutty , professor at the department of ocean engineering at IIT-M.
 
 In what must have been a nerve-racking experience, Kanchipuram's engineers managed to keep pumping out the water without the level inside the engine room increasing significantly .Thankfully , the rate at which water was coming in was never more than the rate at which the ship's pumps were throwing out the bilges. Ship staff and officials belonging to Kamarajar port as well as shipping officials of the central government were worried that if any other structure of the ship ruptured as a delayed consequence of the impact, it could lead to the ship's sinking. Dawn Kanchipuram's owners reportedly wanted the ship to be taken to the Ennore port soon to discharge the cargo as soon as possible. Port officials felt that if the ship was brought in and it sank inside the port, the damage would have been equally bad. The added danger was that the port would have had to shut down for a lengthy period of time. This would have meant depriving Chennai and the rest of the state of a key source of petroleum supply . “We are a commercial port. And there was only one liquid cargo jetty. If the ship had sunk inside the port, port operation would have been affected. We have to take our own precautions and were awaiting clearances from directorate general of shipping,“ said M A Bhaskarachar, chairman of Ennore Port.
 
 He said by Sunday , all cargo oil had been discharged from the ship, which was being repaired.
 
