ALLAHABAD: With the nomination process underway and polling date inching closer, major political camps like BSP, BJP and SP-Congress alliance have taken up the contest with quirky, witty and out-of-the-box slogans to woo voters. The polling would be held in the city on February 23. 

 Apart from manifestos and promises, rhyming slogans are here an instantaneous hit. From the 'UP ko ye sath pasand hai' (UP likes this alliance) slogan of new partners   and Congress, that seems inspired by the Salman Khan starrer bollywood song 'Baby ko bass pasand hai' to BSP's 'Ab badlaav majboori hai, UP mei behenji zaroori hai' (change is inevitable, behenji is necessary in UP), parties are leaving no stone unturned to woo voters with the claim that they are the best.
 
 Supporters are also a step ahead to draft “catchy slogans” and are even coming up with slogans to take a dig at each other. Supporters of BJP are leaving no stone unturned to take a jibe on Congress-SP alliance with the slogan 'Kaisa virodh, kaisi ladai, chor-chor ab mausere bhai'. Similarly, BSP's 'Sarvajan hitaye sarvajan sukhaye, jumle vaadon mei na ayein' slogan is also doing the round. 
 
 Some of the hardcore supporters of the BJP that have been made to take a dig at the SP’s five-year misrule with catchy slogans like ‘Gunde satta mein bhaagidaar, nahi chahiye aisi sarkaar’, and ‘Jisne kiya ghotale hazaar, nahin chahiye aisi Sarkar’. 
 
 Other slogans like “Kaam Bolta Hai” to “ UP Ko Yeh Saath Pasand Hai” by SP–Congress alliance to Behanji Aa Rahi Hai or Behenji Ko Anne Do by BSP supporters are being circulated by the supporters on social networking site and whatsapp in a bid to woo voters. 
 
 Similarly, "Bhajapa Ko Purna Bahumat, Pura UP Sahmat" and "Kendra –Rajya Mai Bhajapa Sarkar- UP Mai Vikas Ko Degi Raftaar" are also being circulated by supporters of BJP to attract maximum number of voters. 
 
 Morever, the contest among opposite camp of candidates through the medium of catchy slogans and 'pole khol' has too kicked off. 'Chaupal' (public meeting) seems to be turning the latest fad among the candidates of all political parties contestants to establish direct communication with the voters.
 
 Apart from door to door canvassing, the candidates have too set up their small war rooms to connect with voters. At the war rooms, the candidates and their supporters have the maps of the mohallas and areas printed to apprise the voter about the delimitation factor. The leaders are also assuring to provide better governance.
 "Interaction with voters is must and once you interact with voters, you can know their problems or grievances properly," said a contestant.
 
 While a quadrangular contest is expected on all 12 seats of the constituencies but every candidate is putting extra efforts to attract voters.
 
 Many candidates and their families members and party leaders and visiting religious places. Some are keeping 'vrata' (fast) for victory. In rural areas, the candidates are discussing national issues and also highlighting local issues like electricity, road and water and even seeking public suggestions by holding meetings.
 
