PUNE: City crimes are reaching new heights of depravity, it seems. On Monday, a 39-year-old was arrested by   for sexually assaulting his own mother. Intoxicated at the time of the incident, the   claimed after his arrest that he had no recollection of what had transpired whatsoever, and that his act was a result of  .

 A terrified 58-year-old woman had registered an FIR at Bibwewadi police station late on Sunday, reporting that her son had tried to force himself upon her. She was having her dinner just like every other day, when her son, a driver by profession, came home around 8.30 in the evening. He was extremely drunk and, soon after getting home, he simply stripped in front of her and stood there.
 
 Naturally, the mother asked him to put on some clothes. That’s when he forced himself onto her. Shocked at what had just happened, the mother caught hold of the nearest object, which was a utensil from the kitchen where she was having her dinner, and threw it at her son to get him to back off. Once it hit him and he backed away, she ran out of the house, locked him inside and rushed to the police station.
 
 When the cops went on Sunday night to arrest the accused, he had already passed out owing to the alcohol. So, they decided to wait till Monday morning. But, they were greeted by a disgusting sight on Monday — he was still unconscious and was lying in his own excrement, soiling the entire room. The cops had to then wake him up and get him cleaned up. It was only late on Monday afternoon that they could take him into custody.
 
 “When we questioned him, he said that was extremely drunk and doesn’t remember much of what had happened the previous night. He kept saying that he did not mean to do what he did and was extremely sorry for whatever happened. He also kept blaming his actions on alcohol,” said assistant   of Bibwewadi police station, who is investigating the case.
 
 The accused has been married for 15 years now and even has two children. His wife left him about two years ago because of the way he behaved. He would always come home drunk and create a scene, Jadhav added.
 
 The 39-year-old has been charged under Section 354(A) for assault or   with intent to outrage her modesty, 504 for provoking breach of trust and 506 for criminal intimidation under the Indian Penal Code. He was produced in court on Tuesday and has been remanded in magisterial custody for 14 days.
 
 He kept saying that he did not mean to do what he did and was extremely sorry for whatever happened. He also kept blaming his actions on alcohol.
 
