Margao: Daily commuters were greatly inconvenienced by a flash strike called by private bus operators at the KTC bus stand in Margao that lasted for close to two hours on Wednesday morning.

 The bus operators were protesting, what they called, “arbitrary” penalties by RTO officers. Intervention by police and RTO officers helped resolve the situation later. The RTO had begun a crack down on passenger   after a 16-year-old girl fell off a moving bus at Navelim on Tuesday.
 
 The officials were on the lookout for those flouting rules such as overcrowding, over-speeding, drivers and conductors not wearing uniforms, non-issuing of tickets, etc. What is significant is that the RTO is in the middle of observing the Goa Road Safety Week.
 
 On Wednesday morning, RTO officials stopped several buses and issued challans for various traffic violations. 
 
 The bus operators did not take kindly to the sudden crackdown by RTO officials, and in turn called a flash-strike, even resorting to blocking the exit at the KTC bus stand, which paralyzed movement of all buses at the main bus terminus in South Goa. 
 
 As more bus operators joined the protest, they confronted RTO officials, questioning them about their move to penalize them, “without alerting them about their intended crackdown.”
 
 Police intervention failed to break the impasse and a delegation of protestors confronted the assistant director of transport, Prakash Kholkar at his office to complain about the “harassment”. Kholkar told the protesting bus operators to “mend your ways”, and that paralyzing public transport was not acceptable. 
 
 “They had some grievances. I told them to give in writing whatever complaints they had, so that I could submit it to the higher authorities. They submitted a petition and left. They were demanding that we go slow in our drive against violations by buses, but I told them off, saying the demand was unacceptable. Keeping a check on violations of traffic rules is part of our job, and we will go ahead,” Kholkar told TOI. The delegation persuaded the protestors to clear the bus stand. 
 
 
