ATTARI: It was an emotional homecoming for  , the Indian woman, who had alleged she was married to a Pakistani national at gunpoint. Uzma who returned from Pakistan on Thursday after the Islamabad high court granted her permission to return, had claimed she was coerced into marrying  , a father of four. External affairs minister Sushma Swaraj welcomed her tweeting, “Uzma- welcome home India’s daughter. I am sorry for all that you have gone through.”

 Wearing a green suit and a matching handbag hanging on her shoulder, the bespectacled lady, holding a spiral book and a pen, looked composed as she crossed the Attari international border along with three officials of the Indian high commission in Islamabad.
 
 An emotional Uzma first knelt down to touch the Indian soil while security personnel were trying to keep her away from the media glare. She was immediately whisked away to Sri Guru Ramdas International Airport, Amritsar to board a flight to Delhi. Uzma was not allowed to speak to the media for reasons best known to the security officials.
 
 Reportedly Uzma’s love affair with Tahir, a taxi driver, began in Malaysia in 2016. On May 1, she left for Pakistan via Attari border and claimed that Tahir forced her to marry at gunpoint on May 3. According to media reports, Uzma claimed she had gone to Pakistan to meet Tahir and explore the country. According to media reports, she was forced by Tahir and his friends to marry him. 
 
 In an interview on a Pakistani TV news channel, Tahir said that Uzma knew he was married and had four children. The Pakistani media highlighted what it claims Whatsapp conversations between the two which read, “Agar bhai ka phone ayae tumharay pas to yeh mat bolna ki tumharay char bachhay hai or na apni biwi kay baray may kuch batana or study agar puchay to graduation batana (If my brother calls you then don’t tell you have four children or about your wife and if he asks about your qualification, say you are a graduate).”
 
 On May 5, Uzma and Tahir went to the Indian high commission in Islamabad to apply for a visa to come to India to meet her family in Delhi. However, her brother had already warned the commission officials about Tahir’s betrayal, following which Uzma was kept in their safety. 
 
 Tahir was told she was not in the high commission’s office after which he filed a missing report with the police and upon inquiry, the commission officials informed that Uzma didn’t wish to return to her husband. On Wednesday, the Islamabad high court ruled she be sent back to her country. 
 
