KANPUR: Known for making controversial remarks, BJP MP from Unnao,  , on late Thursday evening received life threat calls from a phone number from abroad. The phone call was received by Sakshi's PRO   following which he lodged a complaint with the Kotwali police in Unnao on Friday. The caller, according to Katiyar, also hurled abuses and used derogratory language against several other BJP leaders, threatening them for their life. The Kotwali police have lodged an FIR against the unidentified caller and have started the investigation.

 Talking to TOI, Sakshi Maharaj's PRO, Ashok Katiyar said that three calls were made by the anonymous caller on cell number 941256999 at 9:11 pm, 9:15 pm and 9:20 pm on Thursday. Katiyar said that the caller threatened of dire consequences. "The caller threatened that Sakshi Maharaj should stop eulogising Hinduism otherwise he will lose his life. He was using offensive language against our leaders. Therefore, I have lodged an FIR against the anonymous caller and urged police to take the necessary action", said Katiyar further.
 
 Sakshi's PRO further informed that the caller made a mention that Unnao MP would be blown off after declaration of results of UP  . He said that the call was made from +240 940693 number which probably belongs to some other nation. Sensing the gravity of the situation the police did not delay in lodging an FIR.
 
 Inspector Kotwali while talking to TOI confirmed that the FIR has been lodged. He said that the investigation has started. The police is also trying to make out whether the phone call made was an internet call. This is not for the first time that Sakshi Maharaj has received a threat call. Katiyar said that some six-seven months ago also an anonymous caller that given a   to Maharaj Ji. While the FIR has been lodged in Unnao, Sakshi Maharaj according to Katiyar is in Etah these days taking part in some religious event. The police on the other hand has upped the security at the BJP MP's house in Unnao.
 
