Gurgaon: Four   of slain gangster Sandeep Gadoli’s gang were arrested by in IMT Rohtak on Monday night. 

 The four, police said, have revealed they were involved in the murder of rival gangster Binder Gujjar’s brother Manish and that Binder, who is currently in jail, was also on their hit list. The arrests showed that the city may not have seen the last of fierce gang wars between the two groups despite Gadoli’s death and Gujjar’s imprisonment. 
 
 Gurgaon police will take the accused into custody on transit remand for interrogation. The accused have been identified as Dinesh alias Sonu, a resident of Mokhra village in Rohtak; Monu alias Pop and Deepal alias Deepu, both from Kansala in Rohtak; and Ravikant alias Pawwa, a resident of Gadoli Khurd village in Gurgaon.
 
 Acting on a tip-off that the four were trying to rob passersby near IMT on Kheri Sadh Road, a Rohtak Police team led by sub-inspector Rakesh Kumar went to the spot on Tuesday night. “All of them were standing near a Swift Dzire parked on the side of the road. When we started questioning them, one of them whipped out his gun. However, we managed to nab them. The car has been seized,” said Kumar. Five country-made pistols and 10 cartridges were also recovered from their possession.
 
 An FIR has been registered against all the four under sections 398 (attempt to commit robbery or dacoity when armed with deadly weapon) and 401 (belonging to a gang of thieves) of the IPC and sections 25-54-59 of the Arms Act at Sampla police station in Rohtak.
 
 “During interrogation, the accused revealed their involvement in the murder of Manish Gujjar alias Pappu — a liquor businessman who was killed on October 17 last year — and that now Binder — who is currently lodged in Bhondsi jail — is their main target. They four told us that they recently went to a marriage function at Binder’s house (reportedly the marriage of his daughter on January 15) but failed to eliminate him,” a senior police officer said.
 
 Ravi Chaudhary, a close aide of Gadoli, who was arrested by Gurgaon police on November 15 last year, had also revealed the names of the four sharpshooters during his interrogation, cops said.
 
 “The four accused arrested by Rohtak police are wanted in a murder case in Gurgaon, that of a liquor businessman (Manish). We will soon take them on transit remand for questioning,” said Sandeep Khirwar, police commissioner, Gurgaon.
 
