GHAZIABAD: A   on Monday held four policemen guilty in the   in which four persons, all casual labourers, were shot dead. 

 Special judge Rajesh Choudhary held Lal Singh, the then SHO of Bhojpur police station, sub-inspector Joginder Singh, constables Surya Bhan and Subash Chand guilty under sections 302, 193 and 201 of IPC. The fifth accused, constable Ranbir Singh, had died during the trial. The court will decide on the quantum of punishment on February 22.
 
 The then circle officer of  , Jyoti Belur, an IPS officer, was also made an accused by the trial court. However, she acquired a UK citizenship and left the country. A non-bailable warrant is pending against her since 2014.
 
 According to prosecution, four persons, all casual labourers, were killed in a staged encounter by Bhojpur police on November 8, 1996 in broad daylight near Machri roundabout in Bhojpur area.
 
  The dead were later identified as Jasveer (23), Jalaluddin (20), Ashok (17) and Parvesh (17), all labourers. The cops had termed them as “dreaded gangsters.” As per police version, the four men were sitting near Machri roundabout in Bhojpur in suspicious circumstances. 
 
 When challenged, they started firing at the police, forcing them to return the fire in which all of them were killed. According to public prosecutor Rajan Dhaiya, the cops had also cremated the bodies saying they were unclaimed bodies. Since the incident took place around 2.30 pm, there was outrage among the residents and the family members of the victims started an agitation. 
 
 The case was later handed over to CBI on February 1, 1997. The CBI, which re-registered the case on April 10, 1997 startd the investigation and filed a chargesheet on September 10, 2001.
 
 “The CBI investigation has revealed that on November 8, 1996, Jasveer, Jalaluddin, Ashok and Parvesh had gone in search of work in Philukhwa and while returning to Bhojpur in the afternoon, stopped at a tea stall near Bhojpur police station. When the cops called Jasveer inside the police station on some pretext and started assaulting him, his three friends also rushed inside,” said Rajan Dhaiya. “Later they were brought to Machri roundabout where they were shot dead in cold blood,” said Dhaiya. “The cops were in such a hurry to hush up their deeds that they cremated the bodies declaring it unclaimed,” said Dhaiya.
 
 The police, meanwhile, had claimed that all the four started firing when they were questioned. In the return fire, two were killed on the spot while the remaining two fled to a sugarcane field where they were also killed, the police had claimed.
 
 
