NOIDA: Missing traffic cops and dysfunctional traffic lights led to a three-hour long traffic snarl on the stretch leading to the Spice Mall from Sector 12/22 on Monday morning.

 The commuters using the   flyway and other arterial routes in the city also bore the brunt of chock-a-block traffic on the route.
 
 Snarls were witnessed on the road from Sector 10 towards Spice Mall in Sector 25, Sector 57 intersection and the road between Sector 20 police station and   in Sector 21.
 
 Hassled commuters took to social media to complain to officials including SSP   and UP Police.
 
 “No traffic police at Noida 12-22, Chaudha Modh. Stuck for an hour & covered 11 m barely. Well done @noidapolice @noidatrafficpol. Sleepwell,” wrote an angry   on Twitter tagging the Twitter handles of Noida police and  .
 
 Trilok Sharma, who was commuting from Spice Mall towards Sector 6, said at least two red lights on the road were not functioning.
 
 “We were stuck there for about half-an-hour. Both the traffic lights – at the Sector 10 intersection and the Noida Stadium intersection–were not working. There were no traffic cops around to manage the situation,” he said.
 
 RP Singh, project engineer, Noida Authority and incharge of traffic signals told TOI the red lights were not functioning as the power supply was snapped, and there was a problem in the back-up system too.
 
  “We had received some complaints. The red lights were later repaired,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, according to traffic police, most of the constables have moved to other districts for election duty. “There are very few constables left in Noida as most of them have been deployed for election duty in other districts. We are deploying people wherever we can but a handful of constables cannot manage the traffic in the entire city,” said  , sub-inspector, Noida traffic police.
 
 Traffic inspector Dharmendra Yadav further mentioned, “Only 8-10 constables are left with the Noida Traffic Police as the rest of the force has been sent to other district for conduct of elections. The total strength of the traffic police is around 97 constables.”
 
 
