HYDERABAD: The  's move to provide   to nearly 10 lakh   in 190 villages abutting the   (ORR) may get delayed as there are not many takers for the Rs 628-crore  .

 For the first time, the government has taken up the project on 'hybrid annuity payment', which is payment of a fixed amount for a considerable period and then variable amount for the remaining period, mode.
 
 The municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD) department had given administrative sanction for Rs 628 crore in November, 2016 (G O Ms No: 262) for providing water supply under `tap connection to every household' programme for the 190 villages. After the government announced the programme, the villages were added to the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) jurisdiction and officials were told to float tenders to take up the project.
 
 “Accordingly , we have invi ted tenders to provide potable water to these villages. After the deadline, we found only one company filed tender papers. As per the tender rule, no single tender will be accepted by the `Tender Committee' and that is why the water board has rejected it. Soon, we will communicate the status to MA&UD department to take a decision on issue of a fresh notification,“ sources in HMWS&SB told TOI.
 
 These 190 villages were located in three districts__Ranga Reddy , Medchal and Sanga Reddy . Earlier, the panchayat raj (PR) department used to provide water to the villages through HMWS&SB under `Bulk' category and pay monthly bills. The HMWS&SB has supply distribution network to provide water to these 190 villages. “As these villages comes under HMWS&SB limits, we have decided to lay trunk mains, feeder mains to service reservoirs and internal distribution network to the existing network. So that we can supply enough water to the people of these villages,“ he said.
 
 The water board would allot customer account number (CAN) to every household and issue monthly bills once the project is commissioned. The government had hoped to provide potable water to the identified villages by 2019, but it might get delayed as no firm was coming forward to take up the project, the official added.
 
