BENGALURU: A day after the AAP unit of Karnataka alleged a Rs 400 scam was brewing in the Palike, the year’s first   meeting on Saturday was dominated by a debate on the nature and application of trade licence guidelines and the collection of property tax.

 Mayor   said a committee will be constituted to discuss the issue and BBMP will approach the government to come out with a comprehensive policy to address the concerns. Acknowledging the flaws in the existing system, BBMP commissioner   said he will ensure the process of applying for a trade licence is made more efficient within a week.
 
 “In my own ward, 500 establishments have been issued notices and should have been shut down. For 2015-16, only 231 traders were identified in my ward as against the 2,097 traders who actually work there. I have four CDs that contain proof on the number of traders on each street. The revenue generated from these 231 traders in 2015-16 was Rs 8,72,590. If the remaining 90% had been issued licences correctly, the revenue could have been nearly one crore,” said  , corporator of ward 29, Kacharkanahalli. Wards like Cubbonpet and Chickpet are brimming with commercial establishments, which can fetch a large amount of money, he added.
 
 As per zonal regulations, commercial establishments are not allowed in residential areas, unless they follow certain guidelines. According to corporators, however, several small traders were willing to apply for a trade licence and pay taxes but the system did not permit them to, which meant they didn’t fall under any tax bracket, be it VAT or property tax.
 
 The commissioner said he had spoken to the additional commissioner of tax and Bescom to bring to light the discrepancies in the number of commercial connections and VAT licences issued by the two authorities.
 
 “BBMP issues two types of trade licences, fresh and renewed ones. After applying for renewal and submitting documents, there is an auto approval mechanism in place which grants permission after 45 days. At present, there is no deadline for fresh licence applications, and we will put one in place within a week,” he said, dismissing AAP’s allegations as baseless.
 
 
 
 
 BBMP taxation committee chairman   castigated officials in the health department for not adequately preparing for a potential dengue outbreak, that has been listed as a dangerous disease.
 
