BATHINDA: In the second bank related heist in Punjab in two days, six armed and masked men on Wednesday looted nearly Rs 10.27 lakh and 50 gram gold jewellery from the   branch in Sarawa Bodla -- the native village of notorious gangster Harjinder Singh alias   in Muktsar district. On the previous day, armed goons had waylaid the cash van of a private bank near Banur in Patiala district and made off with Rs 1.33 crore.

 In Sarawa Bodla, the masked men, who had come on motorcycles, walked into the bank around 2.20 pm, with at least two of them brandishing .12 bore guns, and went up to the cashier. They pointed their guns at him and asked him to hand over all the cash and jewellery or they would kill him.
 
 In this daring 15-minute heist, the robbers also took away the digital video recorder of the closed-circuit television as well as the mobile phones of the bank staff. Police are probing whether Gondar had a hand in the crime.
 
 Of the five employees posted at this branch, three were on leave on Wednesday. No security guard is posted at this branch.
 
 Employees of the bank said the branch had the cash limit of Rs 5 lakh, but Rs 10 lakh was withdrawn on Wednesday as a payment of Rs 5 lakh was to be made to a customer in the afternoon.
 
 Branch manager   and clerk Sumit Kumar said, “The robbers, who had their faces covered by a pieces of cloth, flaunted weapons and threatened to harm us if we raised the alarm.”
 
 Bathinda range inspector general of police (IGP) M S Chhina said that six masked men with three weapons, of which two were .12 bore guns, and three knives reached the SBI branch in Sarawa Bodla on three motorcycles. “The bank had withdrawn Rs 10 lakh from the Malout branch in the morning and had a cash of Rs 27,000 with it. A customer had also pledged 50 gram of gold to the branch. They took away all this. As there was no security guard in the branch they met with no resistance.”
 
 Bathinda zone deputy inspector general of police (DIG)  , who visited the bank, said nakas had been put up in the entire area, and motorcyclists were being checked. “We are trying to get the description of the robbers from the villagers and the bank employees.”
 
