CHANDIGARH: Even the confined environment of a prison could not stifle the creative urge of four inmates of the Bhondsi jail of Gurugram.

 Rohit Pagare of Delhi, Anoop Singh, Balwant Singh and  , all from Rewari, who are serving prison sentences in cases of murders and rapes, have a new identity — creators of Phoenix, a software meant to ease monitoring of inmates and working of jail administration.
 
 Three of them are serving life sentences and the fourth 10 years’ of rigorous imprisonment. They got inspiration from a software engineer Amit Mishra who had faced trial in a case of dowry death. Mishra drew the route map in 2014, and the four teamed up with him to create and install the software in all 19 jails of Haryana.
 
 Recently, their creation was recognized by the ‘Limca Book of Records’. Bhondsi jail superintendent   said, “They initially started working for the jail canteen. Later, they used canteen premises as their workspace and completed the intranet-based software.”
 
 He said the software was one of the four approved by the Union home ministry (MHA) for pan-India implementation. Mishra monitors the functioning of the project and frequently visits Bhondsi and other jails, added the superintendent.
 
 What’s more, none of the four inmates have any professional background in software or information technology. They got into it after taking computer training in the jail premises. These four further trained 11 more inmates, who were transferred to other jails of Haryana for implementation of the software.
 
 “Jails of Haryana are actually moving forward in the direction of improvement and rehabilitation. I am happy that name of Bhondsi jail and its four prisoners have been featured in ‘Limca Book of Records’ due to praiseworthy efforts of the jail administration. Such efforts to improve condition of inmates and jails should continue in future,” said Y P Singhal, DGP prisons.
 
 Phoenix software
 
 The software provides details of each inmate on the click of the mouse. It has also reduced the time in arranging the meeting of inmates with their families. The software provides details about day-to-day activities of inmates in addition to providing gateways for canteen services of the jail.
 
