NEW DELHI: Invoking the spirit of ‘Quit India Movement’ ahead of the 75th anniversary of this historical event in India’s freedom struggle, PM   on Sunday urged people to expel corruption, terrorism, casteism, communalism, poverty and filth from the country by 2022 when India celebrates 75 years of independence.

 In his monthly radio programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’, he said, “We’ve to come together and resolve to let filth quit India, poverty quit India, corruption quit India, terrorism quit India, casteism quit India and communalism quit India.”
 
 Referring to the call of ‘do or die’ given by   during a different scenario and heightened sense of intensity in 1942, Modi said, “The need for today is not ‘do or die’, instead it is to resolve, to come together, persevere, and work relentlessly with our utmost strength towards the making of a new India.”
 
 “Just like five years between 1942 and 1947 became the decisive period, I can see another five-year period from 2017 to 2022 to make a resolve to end the problems of our nation,” he said. Recalling that the slogan ‘Quit India’ was coined by Yusuf Meher Ali, he said, “But very few people know this... Our young generation must know what happened on 9th August, 1942.”
 
 He said this Independence Day should be celebrated as one of resolve to end problems in the next five years. The PM also sought ideas from the public to be incorporated in his Independence Day speech.
 
 Interestingly, he said he had heard “complaints” that his previous Independence Day addresses were long and that he will try to keep it short this time. “I will try to finish it in 40-45-50 minutes,” he said.
 
 He appealed to people to use eco-friendly Ganesha idols during Ganesh Chaturthi and eco-friendly diyas during  .
 
 Referring to upcoming festivals like Raksha Bandhan, Ganesh Utsav, Durga Puja and Diwali, he urged people to use items made by the poor. “Our festivals are also an instrument of societal improvement... This is the time when the poor get an opportunity to make an earning,” he said.
 
