Panaji: In a case filed against National Insurance Company that denied its liability to pay compensation in a motor accident case, the high court of Bombay at Goa as held that the insurance policy becomes effective on the day the payment is made by the vehicle owner and not at a later date which is mentioned in the policy by the company. In the case of the motor vehicle accident compensation case, the insurance company’s claim was that the policy which was effective from June 15, 2006, till midnight of June 14, 2007, did not cover the accident which had taken place at 8.45pm on June 14, 2006. However, the vehicle owner had made the payment of the insurance policy on June 14, 2006. National insurance company had issued a policy making it effective from midnight of June 15, 2006. The accident occurred on June 14, 2006, at 8.45pm causing disabilility to the injured. The motor accident claim tribunal (MACT) held that the insurance company was not liable to pay compensation as the accident was not covered by the policy that was effective from June 15, 2006 onwards. MACT ordered the vehicle owners to pay compensation of Rs 17 lakh. The legal heirs of the vehicle owners had filed a petition in the high court. The high court noted that the insurance company had not obtained the consent of policy holder that the policy would take effect from a future date. “Though the insurance company had filed the written statement in defence, there was no pleading that they had obtained the consent of the insured that the policy would be effective from June 15, 2006, and therefore in the absence of procurement of consent, the policy would start when the contract was concluded, that is on effecting payment, the judge observed. The high court remanded the case to MACT to determine afresh the validity of the insurance policy. The high court has set aside the order of MACT directing private parties to pay compensation of Rs 17 lakh. Advocate U R Timble, who appeared on behalf of the insurance company, contended that as per the cover note issued, the date of commencement of risk was known to the appellants as June 15, 2006. Timble said it was therefore not open to the appellants to allege that the policy would commence on June 14, 2006, covering the accident.