Nagpur: In a recent study conducted at VSPM Dental College and Research Centre, it was found that 90% of tobacco users had initiated tobacco consumption between 10 and 20 years of age. While 67 % candidates were found with pre-oral cancerous conditions, 2% of them were actually aware about its consequences.

 The sobering findings come just at the end of April, which is observed as   awareness month.
 
 Oral pre-cancer are early manifestations of addictive habits, which, if continued, can lead to cancerous development. There are two commonly seen conditions, oral sub mucous fibrosis (OSMF) and leukoplakia.
 
 “Often, individuals with pre-cancer notice the alterations and experience discomfort associated with oral pre-cancerous lesions. But they are not aware about the causes and consequences of these changes,” said Dr Stuti Bhargava, assistant professor at department of oral medicine at VSPM college.
 
 Dr Bhargava recently completed her PhD where she worked on designing a tobacco cessation module as per Indian context. As part of the project, she conducted interviews with 1,100 tobacco users and came up with several findings.
 
 Among all the participants, 67% were detected with pre-cancer conditions: 43% with leukoplakia and 24% with OSMF.
 
 Dr Bhargava said, “One of the major challenges we face is treating oral cancer at advanced stage. Awareness about pre-cancer can help patients who are at risk of transformation from precancerous to cancerous lesions at a very early and manageable stage. The precancerous lesions and conditions require relatively inexpensive treatment.”
 
 She pointed out that campaigns led by the government or NGOs often do not talk about pre-cancer. She said, “Most of the awareness campaigns, information in movie theatres and package warnings highlight advanced stages of cancerous conditions. Tobacco users often do not relate with the possibility of such advanced development of cancer.”
 
 “For the same reason, India is one the leading countries in the world in initiating public awareness. At the same time, it is the third country after China and Brazil to report the largest number of oral cancer cases. Something must be wrong with the country’s strategy in fighting oral cancer,” she said.
 
 Among the 90% people who started consuming tobacco at an early age, most were male. Dr Bhargava said, “It’s quite clear that a huge majority of the people started tobacco consumption when they were in school.” She pointed out that there has been an emphasis on imparting sex education to school students but the awareness about oral cancer and pre-cancer has still not picked up quite well.
 
 
