VISAKHAPATNAM: Around 30 per cent of the male population of   district are habitual drinkers and of this at least one per cent require psychiatric intervention, say mental health experts. 

 As the male population of Vizag district is over 21.40 lakh, (as per 2011 Census), around 6.3 lakh men are in the habit of consuming alcohol and around 6,300 suffer from psychiatric issues.
 
 At the   ( ) too, Vizag, out of every 20 patients, four to five patients are in some way connected to alcoholism, either chronic or addiction.
 
 Despite high number of cases of alcoholism and substance abuse, deaddiction centres are missing in the district. There’s also a severe dearth of trained psychiatric social workers and psychiatric nurses and occupational therapists to deal with deaddiction cases. On Sunday, a few doctors from   organised a deaddiction camp for patients. A free de-addiction camp would be held once a month.
 
 Dr S  , medical superintendent of GHMC, said, “Around 40 per cent of our patients suffer from alcohol-related problems. Out of every 20 cases, 4-5 cases are related to alcohol and patients come from both urban and rural areas. Of these 40 per cent, half of them would be chronic alcoholics, showing signs of psychosis. Another half would be alcohol addicts having family and socio-occupational problems displaying abusive behaviour and problems of communication.”
 
 Not just psychiatric problems, addicts suffer from various physiological problems too, especially the liver and pancreas gets affected, some show nerve-related problems besides cardiac issues. Most of the alcohol consumed by the poor are spurious or cheap liquor laden with chemicals that damages the health, say doctors.
 
 “Besides ruining families financially, psychologically and health-wise, more than 20 per cent of road accidents are attributed to alcohol consumption. It also triggers anti-social behaviour. In fact, around 30 per cent of the male population of Vizag are habituated to consuming alcohol and one per cent of these turn into severe addicts, requiring psychiatric intervention with counselling and medicines,” pointed out professor of psychiatry and former general secretary of  , who conducted the de-addiction camp on Sunday.
 
