Noida: More than five years after the land acquisition row broke out in the Noida-Extension area (now  ), the   is once again getting ready to collect Rs 900 crore from its  , while the balance Rs 920 crore distributed to farmers as enhanced compensation will be collected through other means.

 According to officials, the Authority has distributed a total of Rs 1,820 crore to farmers as 64.7% enhanced land compensation following an Allahabad high court order in October 2011. Landowners will have to share this burden, officials said. Notices for collecting the amount from allottees of different categories of land use have starting being issued, Noida Authority officials said on Monday.
 
 According to officials, the respective departments of land have been directed to draw up a list of Noida’s land allottees who will be burdened with the additional amount. The additional burden will be loaded on all allottees including property owners of residential, industrial, institutional and commercial land in Noida. 
 
 Of the Rs 1,800 crore, while Rs 891 crore will be collected from allottees, Rs 198 crore will be recovered after launching land schemes and Rs 722 crore will be recover-ed through sale of land in Noida.
 
 Officials said the burden would fall on property owners whose land has been acquired between 2002 and 2014 across 24 villages. While the Authority has drawn up a list of 113 institutional allottees and 88 group housing allottees who have to pay the enhanced compensation, it is yet to finalise the exact number of allottees it has to collect the extra amount from in residential, industrial and commercial areas. 
 
 In February 2014, the Authority had for the first time decided to recover Rs 1,800 crore from its allottees after the high court order. In December 2015 and again in March 2016, the process had once again started for the recovery, but so far the matter had been pending.
 
 However, officials failed to reveal the amount each allottee will have to shell out in view of the additional burden. Officials said they were likely to issue recovery notices to allottees next week while the amount sought per head was being figured out. Officials said individual plot owners, developers, institutes, commercial landowners, etc, who have been allotted land in Noida, will have to pay this extra amount.
 
 GNIDA and YEIDA have also transferred the extra burden owing to the enhanced compensation of 64.7% to their respective allottees. While Greater Noida has to collect Rs 4,500 crore from 24,000 allottees, YEIDA has to collect Rs 6,500 crore from 21,000 allottees.
 
 
