CHANDIGARH: The   has asked the   government to explain the factors that are considered while appointing a sportspersons under its policy.   of the high court has sought a reply from the state government after it was informed that some of the candidates who had studied till Class XII had been appointed against Group A posts, like deputy superintendent of police (DSP), whereas some others were taken into Group C posts, like clerks. 

 HC passed these orders on a contempt plea filed by  , an international kabaddi player. She was not considered for appointment under sports quota despite directions from the HC.
 
 “The state is directed to file a specific affidavit as to whether educational qualification along with other criteria as mentioned in the policy is a relevant factor to be considered while making such appointments or not; the terms and conditions of the policy and other factors which have been taken into consideration,” ordered Justice Chaudhary in her July 19 orders.
 
 She also ruled, “On perusal of policy, it is nowhere mentioned that educational qualification is also a relevant factor for appointment in various posts. The petitioner brought to the notice that some of the candidates who are only 10+2 have been appointed against Group A posts like deputy superintendent of police whereas some of the candidates are being appointed against Group C like clerk and gram sachiv.”
 
 In response to Reenu’s petition, the state government has told the HC that her case is before the subcommittee of the state cabinet. A decision in her case would be taken only after the cabinet’s call. 
 
 However, the petitioner’s counsel Aftab Singh Khera told the court that Reenu’s claims were being considered for the post of clerk in the sports department. Hearing this, the court asked the state counsel as to how the claim of such appointments is considered in different categories or whether academic qualification is the criterion. It is nowhere mentioned that academic qualification is also a factor for appointment, observed the court.
 
 HC asked the state to file a response by September 5. The court has also directed the chief secretary to take a decision on the petitioner’s appointment within three weeks.
 
 On April 4, 2016, HC had directed state authorities to consider her claim in view of the state’s policy within a period of three months. However, she had to approach HC after the government failed to give a go-ahead to her appointment.
 
 
