PATNA: State urban development and housing department (UDHD) minister Maheshwar Hazari on Tuesday reviewed the action plan of different urban local bodies to use   water for irrigation purpose. 

 At a recent review meeting with UDHD officials, CM Nitish Kumar had called for proper utilisation of sewage water. The officials were asked to prepare a plan for sewage management and to use it for irrigation. He had expressed concern over the way sewage water is polluting various rivers in the state.
 
 “We will construct a big drain in each city and smaller drains will be connected with it. Water of this drain will then be transferred to the sewage treatment plant (STP) and the treated water will be used for irrigation. A proper canal will be made to transport the water to the villages,” said an official of Bihar Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (BUIDCO).
 
 He added the detailed project report (DPR) had been presented to the UDHD minister and he suggested certain changes. “After incorporating the changes, the DPR will be sent to chief minister for his final nod,” the official added.
 
 In case of Muzaffarpur, the city will be divided into nine zones. It will have a 47km long main drain through which water will be taken to the STP. Darbhanga will have 3.65km long main drain to which all the smaller drains of the city will be connected. It would be constructed with an estimated expenditure of Rs 26.6 crore.
 
 In Madhubani, a 4.7km long drain will be constructed at the cost of Rs 42 crore. In Sasaram, a big drain will be constructed from S P Jain College to Beda locality via Sher Shah Suri tomb with an expenditure of Rs 11.33 crore. Supaul will have a 7.5km long new drain constructed at the cost of Rs 17 crore. Phulwarisharif, on the other hand, has been divided into three zones. 
 
 Sources said BUIDCO engineers will visit Punjab to study the ‘Seechewal’ model of treating sewage water. In February this year, Nitish had visited the water treatment plants set up by environment activist Balbir Singh Seechewal during his Punjab trip. Impressed by the technique, Nitish had hinted at adopting the model in Bihar.
 
 
