 is here and so are the much-loved tricolour. Clutching their bunches of flags, you see flag sellers offering a flavour of patriotism near schools, colleges, makeshift shops and most importantly, traffic signals in the city. 

 From the most common glossy waves in plastic to the new arrivals in paper and cloth, you get to choose your pick from a range of varieties, this time.
 
 
 
 As you take a walk on the roads of the city, non-Malayali sellers walk up to you chanting Bharat Mata Ki Jai followed by flag kharidna, acha hai… sasta hai. And the smart ones who have learnt the local language even ask kodi veno kodi. It looks like the makeshift shop keepers in front of schools and colleges are making hay while the sun shines the best. Vinod, who sells flags near Broadway in Kochi, says, “Flags are available in multiple sizes, but students go for the small-sized flags, the most. A few buy some little bigger ones too to keep on their two wheelers or in cars, but many love to just hold it and walk around, for fun. Several people ask for wrist bands and head bands in tri-colours as well. Laws regarding the material of the flag and other dimensions are stricter this time, so not many sellers are offering variety items in tri-colours.”
 
 
 
 Yes, you might be seeing them being waved at you for sale, but did you know that flying a national flag made of plastic is illegal? According to the Flag Code of India, 2002, the tricolour should be made of hand-spun and hand-woven wool, cotton or silk khadi bunting. 
 A seller in Kochi says, “Some people had told me a few days ago that the sale of plastic flags is illegal and this time, the punishments would be stricter due to present government’s increased focus on such matters. But, plastic flags are preferred more by the public as they are cheaper. So, many sellers keep the paper and cloth ones in the forefront and hide the plastic flags under them! For those who insist on the plastic tricolour, they offer those flags.”
 The cost of plastic flags varies from `5 to `20. Paper flags are available for `10 onwards and the cloth ones, for `12 onwards. Sam C Uthup, a seller in Kochi says, “Most of the flags here are sourced from Bangalore. In Kerala, flags are also made at Kunnankulam in Thrissur.”
 
 
 
 In Kerala, the sale of flags picks up only about two days prior to the Republic Day. Ashok, a non-Malayali youngster who has been busy trying to sell off his bunch of flags on MG Road, tapping on vehicle windows, says, “I have to sell at least 50 a day and the business is only for the three days prior to the Republic Day. I get around `3 per flag. Here, people don’t like to buy flags all that much, especially grown-ups. But on special days, I earn well.” All he knows about the flag is that a middleman hands it over to him at a ‘place near a bridge’ and if the sales are good on a 9 am to 6 pm day, he will get a good commission. Does he know what the flag signifies? “People like to buy them in January and August, to keep it on their vehicles. They also use it to wave it during cricket matches. Isn’t that right?” Ashok asks, innocently. Well, can’t agree more!
 
