AHMEDABAD: Buoyed by the BJP’s success in  , speakers at the   organised by the   (VHP) at the GMDC grounds on Sunday, freely used slogans like ‘kar seva’, ‘Ram Mandir at Ayodhya’ and ‘Hindu first’. It seems these phrases have now become part of the essential political vocabulary for the upcoming Gujarat assembly elections.

 Incidentally, the Sammelan was intended to set the tone for the Gujarat assembly elections scheduled in December. VHP president Dr Pravin Togadia did not mince words. 
 
 “Those in Delhi and elsewhere should now listen with their ears open that once again people of this country, if required, will launch another kar seva to build a grand Ram temple in Ayodhya,” Togadia said.
 
 The VHP president said that the new UP government and the Centre should now work to enact a law for the Ayodhya site on the lines of Somnath temple. He went on say that those who consider Sardar Patel as their inspiration should live by his example. 
 
 “To rebuild the Somnath temple, Sardar Patel never grabbed anyone’s beard or wear any cap,” Togadia said. “Somnath temple was built by the will of the then government to which Sardar Patel belonged. Our country again needs to walk on the path set by the Sardar. If the government does not act now, people will again march to Ayodhya from across the country.’’ 
 
 The launch of a new mobile app called, ‘HApp4Hindus’, was also announced. Togadia also declared the ‘Hindu First’ charter of demands and, with it, the ‘Prosperous Hindus’ action plan for upliftment of poor Hindu families. “The government cannot ignore the welfare of the majority community and talk of progress,” the VHP chief said . Togadia also launched a new plan for women’s empowerment; improving health facilities; farmer welfare; and skill development scheme for Hindus to make them employable. He also launched a Hindu Helpline for those in distress.
 
 Togadia demanded that polygamy should be abolished for all communities and a “uniform population and marriage law” should be enacted to control unnecessary population explosion and wastage of taxpayer’s money on welfare schemes. “A lot of taxpayers’ money goes into serving large families that have no control over their numbers. A new law to curb this is a must,” Togadia said adding that a majority of India’s taxpayers are Hindus.
 
 ‘Why no fee waiver for Hindu kids?’
 
 Giving as example the agitation for caste-based reservations, Dr   claimed that there is an attempt to divide Hindus on caste lines. He appealed for unity among Hindu communities. “According to government figures, 95 lakh Muslim (minority) students receive fee waivers and scholarships every year. Why aren’t Patel, Rajput, Thakor and Koli students given such benefits?’’ Togadia said.
 
 Togadia praises Trump
 
 Dr Parvin Togadia lauded the efforts of the newl US president, Donald Trump, against terrorism. “Donald Trump is a bold leader in the world today who does what he promises. Within a week, he imposed several restrictions on migrants from Islamic countries. I would like to request him to ensure the safety of Hindus,” the VHP international president said.
 
 Yogi invited to campaign in Gujarat
 
 Rajkot: Gujarat BJP president Jitu Vaghani said at a party meeting held in Rajkot that there is an effort to invite UP chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi to campaign for the BJP in the December elections. Vaghani told journalists that the his team will secure a massive win for the BJP this year.
 
 
