NAGPUR: The finance ministry led by Arun Jaitley seems to have given a big push to developing   in the region by allocating over Rs2,500 crore for various new lines including doubling, tripling or quadrupling works.

 If one considers the Railway Board’s ‘pink book’, which gives a clear picture of money allotted to various works, there is a 408% increase in total outlay for Maharashtra as compared to 206% in the last budget.
 
 The biggest allocation of Rs738 crore has come for Wardha-Yavatmal-Nanded line. “This is significant and work will gather steam after progressing slowly for all these years. Yet, the line won’t be ready for traffic for next 3-4 years,” says railway analyst & expert  .
 
 Interestingly, a sizeable Rs300 crore has been allocated for   (49km) line. With the state also sharing an equal amount, the line may see light of the day in a year or so.
 
 Similarly, Wardha-Nagpur 3rd and 4th lines have been granted Rs76 crores. The groundwork the ground has already started for both lines. However, the amounts sanctioned are surprisingly low and may slow down progress in the current year. The 3rd line between Durg-Nagpur has also been granted Rs248 crores. “This should speed up the tripling work on this line,” says Patel.
 
 The other 3rd lines getting funds include Teegaon-Chichnonda (Rs12 crores), Wardha-Ballarshah (Rs65 crores) and Itarsi-Nagpur (Rs60 crores). Funds for initial works on these lines have been sanctioned. This means preliminary work on tripling of these freight heavy sections will finally see the light of the day.
 
 Longer loop lines for longer goods trains between Itarsi-Nagpur-Jalgaon have been given initial allocation of Rs1 crore.
 
 However, gauge conversion of   ‘Shakuntala’ line is a state JV project with Rs2,100 capital investment.
 
 The wagon repair workshop at Badnera has also been granted Rs50 crores. The Nagpur-Chhindwara-Jabalpur and Gondia-Jabalpur gauge conversion work has been allocated another Rs515 crores this year. With this, the work could well be completed by 2018.
 
 Nagpur-Nagbhid gauge conversion has received trivial fund of Rs10 lakh. Hence, not much is expected to happen on this front. On the other hand, Ajni satellite terminal has been allocated a meagre Rs2 crores.
 
 “This is a fairly small amount and is not going to make much impact. Clearly, Ajni terminal is not an immediate priority,” says Basant Shukla of Bharatiya Yatri Kendra (BYK).
 
 In another development, automatic block signalling will be implemented between Godhani-Nagpur & Khapri-Nagpur for which Rs1 crore has been allocated. “This will allow more trains to occupy the same space on these stretches, increasing capacity and hopefully speeding up reception and dispatch of trains from Nagpur,” said Patel.
 
 Preliminary work for new electric loco maintenance depot at Ajni will now begin as minor funds allocated. This shed will look after locos built at the new Madhepura factory in Bihar.
 
 On the passenger amenities front, funds have been sanctioned for replacement of FOB at Nagpur station with a new one, having escalators and lifts. This will likely take a couple of years to come up. 
 
 “With the old ROB demolished, platform numbers 1, 2 & 3 will undergo remodelling. However, a mere Rs1 lakh has been sanctioned this year,” said sources.
 
 
