GHAZIABAD: The   has decided to give tickets to all its sitting MLAs in Gautam Budh Nagar and   districts, except in Noida and   assembly constituencies, where it has decided to field fresh candidates for the forthcoming  .

 As per a release issued by the party, city-based realtor Ravikant Mishra will contest from the Noida assembly constituency. He will be contesting an election for the first time. BSP’s Omdutt Sharma had lost the Noida seat to BJP’s Mahesh Sharma by over 27,000 votes in the 2012 assembly polls.
 
 The ticket for the Muradnagar assembly constituency in Ghaziabad district has been given to Samajwadi Party (SP) turncoat Sudhan Rawat. He had contested the last Lok Sabha elections from Ghaziabad parliamentary constituency on an SP ticket but lost to BJP’s VK Singh. Rawat, who is also a realtor, had subsequently contested the bypolls for mayor’s post in February 2016 and lost to BJP’s Ashu Verma.
 
 The sitting MLA from Muradnagar, Wahab Chaudhary, will contest from Modi Nagar assembly constituency. The party had lost Modi Nagar to Sudesh Sharma of the Rashtriya Lok Dal in the 2012 elections. Chaudhary had won the Muradnagar seat by a narrow margin of nearly 3,600 votes by defeating Rajpal Tyagi, his rival from the SP in the 2012 polls.
 
 Satveer Singh Gujjar and Vedram Bhati, BSP’s sitting MLAs from Dadri and Jewar respectively in GB Nagar district, will contest from the same seats again. Similarly, in Loni constituency in Ghaziabad, sitting MLA Zakir Ali Khan will contest again. The party has also retained the candidatures of sitting MLAs Amarpal Sharma and Suresh Bansal in the assembly seats of Sahibabad and Ghaziabad, respectively.
 
 According to political analysts, the BSP has decided to play safe by choosing candidates who have a proven track record in their respective strongholds. “The BSP has chosen candidates in GB Nagar and Ghaziabad who are already familiar with the respective seats. These candidates have already proved that they have solid support bases in their seats. Their chances of winning yet again would, however, depend on a lot many factors including profiles of candidates fielded by other political parties. The general mood of voters towards any political party during the run-up to the polls will also be crucial in determining their winning chances,” said a Lucknow-based political analyst, Professor Ramesh Dixit.
 
 BSP’s list for GB Nagar and Ghaziabad has come ahead of its rivals. SP has declared two lists for the assembly seats with party supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav and chief minister Akhilesh Yadav declaring separate candidates.
 
 A look at BSP’s candidates. 
 
 Ravikant Mishra (Noida: Realty trader who runs an office in Ganga market complex of Sector 29. Mishra will be contesting an election for the first time since 2012.
 
 Satveer Singh Gujjar (Dadri): Two time MLA from Dadri. Gujjar won the 2007 and 2012 assembly polls on BSP tickets. He runs a transport business in Noida.
 
 Vedram Bhati (Jewar): Three-time MLA from BSP, Bhati won the 2007 and 2012 polls from Jewar. He won the 2002 assembly elections when Dadri was a part of Sikandrabad assembly constituency. Bhati had earlier been with the BJP in the 90s.
 
 Zakir Ali Khan (Loni): First-time MLA in the 2012 assembly polls. Khan (37) runs a property business in Loni. 
 
 Amarpal Sharma (Sahibabad): Sharma is a one-time MLA having won the Sahibabad seat on a BSP ticket in 2012. He unsuccessfully contested the assembly elections as an independent from Ghaziabad assembly seat in 2007. 
 
 Sudhan Rawat (Muradnagar): An established real estate player in Ghaziabad, Contested mayor by-polls in Ghaziabad in February 2016 on a SP ticket and lost. Switched to BSP in July 2016.
 
 Suresh Bansal (Ghaziabad): Bansal (74), was earlier with the Congress. Joined the BSP in 1999. Unsuccessfully contested the 2007 assembly polls on a BSP ticket from Dadri in 2007. Won the seat on a BSP ticket in 2012.
 
 
