For long,   was Kokila for telly audience, thanks to her hit character on the sitcom  . 

 Now, they call her Kunjammayi, who resides in  . There is more to the talented actress these days. The actress, who has also been busy with her 10-month-old baby boy at her home in Changanassery, finds some time to talk to us about her new projects and motherhood. 
 
 
 
 I made my small screen debut through the serial Sthreethwam, in 2007, but I have been in the limelight right from school and college days. I was also the district-level Kalathilakam in 2006 while I was a student. I faced camera for the first time for a telefilm named Comedy Paarakku Maru Paara, directed by my late father Babu. My parents loved the craft of acting and it’s their support that made me take it seriously.
 My character in Sthreethwam was a weepy one, and it led to many more mega serial projects. But, it’s the role in Thatteem Mutteem that helped me find space on the big screen. Thus happened films like  , Oru Second Class Yathra, Mariyam Mukku, Chandrettan Evideya, Aadupuliyattam and Kavi Uddheshichathu..?
 
 
 
 Kunjammayi is the new member of Badai Bungalow. It is a project I took up post delivery, as I have always enjoyed doing comedy characters. My role is that of the cousin of Valiyammayi played by Praseetha, who is on a break from the show. But, Kunjammayi is no mere replacement and has her own personality and sense of humour.
 
 It is an experience for me to work with artistes like Mukesh, Ramesh Pisharody, Manoj and Arya, who have been the pillars of success for the show. Though I have been part of just around 15 episodes, the reviews for my role are positive and give me confidence to perform more. 
 
 
 
 Till about my seventh month of pregnancy, I was working. I took a 90-day break after the delivery, as that is the conventional period of rest for a woman after the baby is born. I was back to work on Day 91!
 
 I am grateful to Diana, producer of Badai Bungalow, who has allotted me a separate room and a caretaker near the studio floor to attend to my son when I go for my shoot. My in-laws and husband encourage me to follow my passion but I also want to devote more time for childcare. So, I might consider taking a break from acting when my son starts school.
 
 
 
 I see every role as a space to experiment. If the roles get a decent recognition, I believe it is all thanks to the support I received from the project’s directors, scriptwriters and the other cast. Then again, I love comedy roles more. As for villainess roles, I love Varsha of Veendum Jwalayaayi and Maya from the Tamil serial Thendral.
 
 
 
 My mini screen projects are just Badai Bungalow and Thatteem Mutteem as of now. I also have two movie projects, but I can’t talk about them now. I am also a bit into dancing now, as I have gained some weight after pregnancy. I am hoping I can brush up my dancing skills and also lose some weight in the process. 
 
