1. Recent threats targeting Jewish Community Centers and vandalism of Jewish cemeteries, as well as last week's shooting in Kansas City, remind us that while we may be a nation divided on policies, we are a country that stands united in condemning hate and evil in all its forms. They (racial and religious attacks) have no place in our country, and we will continue to make that clear.
 
 2. America must put its own citizens first, because only then can we truly make America great again. 
 
 3. By finally enforcing immigration laws, we will raise wages, help the unemployed, save billions of dollars and make our communities safer. We have also ordered the   to create an office called "VOICE", which stands for 'Victims of Immigration Crime Engagement.'
 
 4. "We will soon begin the construction of a great, great wall along our southern border. As we speak tonight, we are removing gang members, drug dealers and criminals that threaten our community and prey on our very innocent citizens, bad ones are going out as I speak. To any in Congress who do not believe we should enforce our laws, I would ask you … what would you say to the American family that loses their jobs … or loved ones because America refused to uphold its laws and defend its borders."
 
 5. We are also taking strong measures to protect our nation from radical Islamic terrorism. ISIS kills Muslims, Christians, people from all faiths. We vow to destroy it with help of our allies including in Muslim world."
 
 6. "We cannot allow our nation to become a sanctuary for extremists. That is why my administration has been working on improved vetting procedures. We have seen the attacks at home from Boston to   to the Pentagon and yes, the World Trade Center… It is not compassion but reckless to allow uncontrolled entry from places where proper vetting cannot occur."
 
 7. "...my administration has answered the plea … for immigration enforcement and border security. By finally enforcing our immigration laws, we will raise wages, help the unemployed, save billions and billions of dollars, and make our communities safer for everyone. We want all Americans to succeed, but that can't' happen in an environment of lawless chaos."
 
 8. "A new chapter of America greatness is now beginning. A new national pride is sweeping across our nation. And a new surge of optimism is placing impossible dreams firmly within our grasp. What we are witnessing today is a renewal of the American spirit."
 
 9. "I believe strongly in free trade, but it also has to be fair trade. It's been a long time since we had fair trade. The first Republican president, Abraham Lincoln, warned that the abandonment of the protective policy of the American government would create want and ruin in the country… It's time we heeded his advice and his ways. I am not going to let America and its great companies and workers be taken advantage of any longer… They have taken advantage of our country no longer."
 
 10. "Tonight I am also calling on this Congress to repeal and replace Obamacare… Mandating every American to buy government-approved health insurance was never the right solution for our country. The way to make health insurance available to everyone is to lower the cost … and that is what we are going to do."
 
 
 
 
