NEW DELHI: More than 1lakh patients have availed the   programme unveiled in the 2016-17 budget by the Modi government aimed at reaching all district hospitals across the country. Nearly 10 lakh dialysis sessions have been held under the plan so far, government estimates showed.

 About 2.2 lakh new patients of end stage renal disease get added in India every year resulting in additional demand for 3.4 crore dialysis sessions. With approximately 4,950 dialysis centres, largely in the private sector and concentrated in the major towns, the demand is only half met.
 
 Every dialysis session costs about Rs 2,000. Besides, most families have to undertake frequent trips, often over long distances, to access dialysis services, incurring heavy travel costs and loss of wages, finance minister Arun Jaitley had said in his budget speech while announcing the scheme.
 
 While the budget plan was to have at least one dialysis unit in every district, the health ministry has approved around 519 proposals from district hospitals by end of 2016 to start dialysis units on the public private partnership (PPP) model.
 
 Out of this, close to 300 are already functional. The ministry plans to start the rest by end of this year, an official told TOI. “The process is on. We have been receiving and approving more propo sals simultaneously,“ the official added.
 
 Close to 30 states have placed their proposals, with UP, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar ahead. Punjab and recently Haryana have also come up with many centres. However, some north-eastern states and J&K have not submitted any proposal.
 
 The guidelines for the programme were issued in April by the health ministry with Prime Minister Narendra Modi sending a clear signal that the scheme should take off as soon as possible. Sources said health minister J P Nadda personally monitors the scheme for speedy implementation.
 
 The dialysis programme was one of the big-ticket budget announcements made by the government. However, the scheme has got no separate allocation. Instead, the centres are being cleared as state programme implementation plan under the National Health Mission (NHM). While last year there was a limited increase of Rs 700 crore in the NHM budget, this year it got a jump of around Rs 2,000 crore.However, how much of it will be spent on the dialysis programme is unclear.
 
 Considering that it is a continuous and an expensive process, the programme was announced to make dialysis available in all government hospitals, which will not only offer an affordable option but more importantly benefit a significant number of BPL patients. “The idea is to make it convenient and less expensive for people,“ the official said.
 
 Experts said with the increasing incidence of diabetes, burden of chronic kidney disease is only likely to go up significantly .
 
 According to the India Renal Foundation, India has very little to offer in terms of infrastructural facilities for renal care. While there are few dialysis centres, most of them are in metros.
 
 In a recent study published in international medical journal Lancet, a medical panel called upon governments to ensure cost-effective and equitable access to dialysis that meets minimum safety and quality standards worldwide, including India.
 
 The 10-member panel also prescribed audit mechanisms that encourage transparent reporting of dialysis costs and outcomes amid concerns about variations in services in India where dialysis can cost anything from Rs 650 to over Rs 3,000 per session.
 
