MADURAI: Nobel Laureate Kailash   has said that his Bharat Yatra launched from Kanyakumari will be the beginning of an all-out war on rape,   and trafficking of children. The yatra which was flagged off on Monday from the Vivekananda Rock Memorial will culminate in New Delhi on October 16 covering 11,000 kilometres across 22 states. In  , it will also pass through Salem, Madurai, Vellore and Chennai. 

 Launching the rally, Satyarthi appealed to the youth to join the march to ensure the safety and security of children, who are the future of India. “Child rape and sexual abuse have become a moral epidemic that haunts our nation. We can no longer remain silent spectators. Our silence is breeding more violence. We at this moment declare that we refuse to let victims and their families live in fear while the rapists roam free and fearless. I refuse to accept that eight children go missing and two are raped every hour. Bharat Yatra is to make India safe again for our children”, he said. Commenting on the significance of choosing Kanyakumari to kickstart the rally, he said that the previous Bharat Yatra — Shiksha Yatra of 2001 — was also launched from Kanyakumari and progressed to New Delhi. The flag-off from   commemorated the anniversary of Swami Vivekananda’s address at Chicago in 1893, he said. 
 
 Union minister for state for finance and shipping Pon Radhakrishnan and Kanyakumari district collector Sajjansingh R Chavan were present for the flag-off. The union minister thanked Satyarthi for launching the initiative to end child sexual abuse and trafficking from Kanyakumari and Tamil Nadu. 
 
 The organisers said the yatra, conceptualised on the theme of Surakshit Bachpan- Surakshit Bharat (safe childhood- safe India), was the movement of the 21st century which would combat the evils of all forms of violence against children. It was also the launch of a three-year campaign against child rape and child sexual abuse aimed at increasing awareness and reporting of the cases, strengthening institutional response including medical health and compensations and ensuring protection for victims and witnesses during trials. It was also intended to increase convictions in child sexual abuse cases in a time-bound manner. 
 
 
