Bhopal: Amid speculation of a probable cabinet expansion, top brass of the state BJP Including chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Thavar Chand Gehlot, state unit chief Nandkumar Singh Chauhan and seven ministers held a confidential meeting at a guest house in Kerwa dam on Saturday.

 This was the first major meeting of ruling BJP after the visit of party national president Amit Shah here last month.
 
 Venue of the meeting was first scheduled in the Ratibad forest area, then shifted to the chief minister’s official residence but finally held at the guest house in Kerwa. BJP national vice-president in-charge of the state Vinay Sahasrebuddhe and state party organisational general secretary Suhas Bhagat was also present along with cabinet ministers Jayant Malaiya, Bhupendra Singh, Rajendra Shukla, Narottam Mishra, Rampal Singh and Umashankar Gupta.
 
 The meeting started within closed doors in the morning hours and continued till 6 in the evening. Chief minister Chouhan denied the meeting was about any cabinet expansion. State BJP president Nandkumar Singh Chauhan told reporters, “This was just a state party meeting where booth level units and strategy was discussed. Party national president Amit Shah was here last month and left us with a calendar of functions, conventions and meetings that are to be held. We discussed all events that we will organise according to Shah’s instructions.”
 
 Vinay Sahasrebuddhe supported Nandkumar Singh Chauhan’s claim and said, “This was a follow-up meeting after Amit Shah’s visit.” What was, however, intriguing is the manner in which the state BJP kept the venue of the meeting strictly confidential. Also, conspicuous in their absence were two central leaders – BJP national vice president Prabhat Jha and party national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya.
 
 When Nandkumar Singh Chauhan was asked why Union ministers Tomar and Gehlot were present in the meeting, he said, “Obviously, leaders who have contributed to the state unit in the past will be called.” Mystery, therefore, deepened why former state BJP president Prabhat Jha and former cabinet minister Vijayvargiya were not present.
 
 Sources in the state BJP said that the meeting was on two major counts. One, the RSS’ convention here on October 8, 9 and 10 which will be attended by organisation chief Mohan Bhagwat and two, assessment of the performance of ministers in the state.
 
 
