JAIPUR: Genpact and Cisco launched a global centre of excellence in Jaipur as part of Cisco's   project. Hosted and operated in Genpact's facility, the centre will serve as an innovation lab to test and deploy the latest smart technology advances from Cisco to help Jaipur become a responsive, smart and connected city.

 “Our commitment with the Cisco Lighthouse initiative in Jaipur is to help the state develop an ecosystem of talent, entrepreneurship and innovation to drive growth, generate jobs, diversify the economy and support sustainable growth," said  , executive chairman, Cisco here on Monday.
 
 As part of an MoU between Cisco, Genpact, and Rajasthan government, Genpact will use the data generated from Cisco’s smart-connected digital and mobile platforms, and surveillance network to develop analytics-driven technology applications.
 
 These applications are designed to enhance the quality and performance of urban services, allow the government to engage effectively with its citizens and provide real time responses to operational challenges for these services.
 
 Chief minister  , who also attended the unveiling of the centre, said the application of advanced digital technologies will benefit Jaipur in its agenda of economic and social progress through enhanced citizen experiences.
 
 Drawing attention to the digital milestones the state has already achieved, Raje said that the government has built a huge network of 40,000 e-mitras in every nook and corner of the state offering a wide range of online services.
 
 She also highlighted how the state has taken new strides in developing IT and startup landscape.
 
 “Bengaluru is a great place for startups but Jaipur is next place for startups. Incubation centres which support startups is now in the policy of the government,” said Raje. A recently study by Tracxn, which tracks developments in the startup space, had put Jaipur at the number one position in the country outside the big cities.
 
 Genpact plans to utilize advanced, disruptive technologies such a robotic process automation, machine learning, advanced visualization and internet of things to create applications that will be integrated into the operations and future economic development of the city. “We believe this collaboration will have a resounding ripple effect on a global scale by demonstrating how collaborative innovation can result in making a large city like Jaipur truly smart and connected,” said N V ‘Tiger’ Tyagarajan, president and chief executive officer of Genpact. Cisco has identified Jaipur as the first smart and connected Lighthouse City in South Asia joining a league of cities like Hamburg, Barcelona, and Adelaide.
 
