JAIPUR: Jaipur police on Sunday arrested three persons involved in the   that occurred a few days ago in   It seems that paid   were the triggering points behind the murder of   (40) and his father Rajnayak Saxena (73). This was revealed by the Jaipur police. Three persons including a woman were arrested for murder and robbery of the duo. The arrested accused, however, claimed that the deceased son while having consensual sex with the arrested woman had tried to rape her six-year-old daughter which led to the two murders. Police will verify these claims.

 Saurabh Saxena along with his father Rajnayak Saxena was found murdered on March 14 in their house at Rajat Path, Mansarovar. After the murder, the police activated their informers and collected vital information about Saurabh’s lifestyle.
 
 Police found that after Saurabh divorced his wife, he used to invite women and pay them for sex. “He came in contact with one Rakesh Meena, a labourer. Meena’s mother used to work in Saurabh’s house which was being revamped. Meena knew about Saurabh’s habits and so brought his live-in partner Geeta Devi (35) and a friend Ramesh Saini (32) to meet Saurabh,” said Manish Agarwal, deputy commissioner of police (south) at a press conference on Sunday.
 
 “It was not Meena’s first visit to Saurabh’s house but we are verifying whether it was the woman’s first visit,” he added.
 
 Thereafter, Meena and Saini were offered drinks by Saurabh on the ground floor. In the meantime Saurabh went to have sex with the woman.
 
 Talking about the reason behind the murder, Agarwal said, “Our investigation suggests that it was a planned murder where the victim was offered free sex and later killed. Later, all three decamped with cash, jewellery and electronics items. Not only that, after the murder all three visited the house again on March 14 afternoon and stole other valuables. On the other hand the woman has claimed that Saurabh, after having sex with her, attempted to rape her six-year-old daughter. She told Meena about this which led to a confrontation between Meena and Saurabh in which the latter was killed. When Saurabh’s father, Rajnayak Saxena came to help his son, he too was killed.”
 
 A senior officer added, “The woman’s claims will be verified because if this dual murder took place in a fit of rage then why did the trio steal items from the house. They could have informed the police. They visited the house even after the murder and stole a few more things on March 14, the same day when neighbours complained of foul smell coming from the spot.”
 
 On this last visit the accused had stolen an LED TV, CPU and a computer monitor. “All the circumstantial evidences prove that it was a well-planned murder for gain,” the officer added.
 
 
