KOLKATA: From Tuesday, be ready to shell out hefty traffic fines if you are speeding or racing against other vehicles. The transport department, which has effected change in the  , 1989, has issued a   effective August 1 which proposes nearly 5-10 fold hike in fines for rash driving and bike racing incidents.

 “The new rules will be effective from Tuesday. These penal measures are aimed at curbing the instances of rash driving, over-speeding and bike racing,” state transport minister Suvendu Adhikari told TOI. Additional commissioner of police (1) Vineet Goyal said the state notification has made the higher fines mandatory.
 
 The minister said the fresh notification sought to cap the penalties to the maximum fines. For example, if a particular penal offence has a fine range from Rs 500-Rs 1,000, the offender will be charged the maximum and police will be unable to “compound” the fine. Instead, cops can now slap multiple charges for a single offence, making the offender cough up more.
 
 Police said the different sections of Motor Vehicles Act that can be clubbed together include driving at excessive speed, contravening speed limits, driving dangerously, driving when physically or mentally unfit, racing and trials for speed and disobedience of orders. “Earlier, we could hardly charge Rs 300 for speeding. This will be a huge shift, especially in controlling the bikers who break rules often,” said an OC of a central   guard.
 
 So how will this work? According to officers, a simple offence like speeding will entail a fine of minimum of Rs 300-400. “For racing or performing stunts, it would involve a variety of offences — driving at excessive speed, contravening speed limits and driving dangerously — and attract fines under all three sections. As such, the total amount to be paid to the sergeant will be a big one,” explained a traffic inspector.
 
 In addition, the OCs at various traffic guards will have the powers to suspend the bikers’ licences if they are found overshooting the speed limit. “We now have speed guns at Maa flyover, Vidyasagar Setu, AJC Bose Road flyover and EM Bypass. There are also CCTV cameras attached to them. The footages directly reach the guards at Lalbazar control room. Based on evidence, the licences will be temporarily suspended. The process has already begun but the new rules will make our hands stronger,” said an officer at Lalbazar.
 
 The new gazette notification will, however, not charge extra for minor offences like jumping the signal line, which will remain Rs 100 for now.
 
 “We will be making some necessary changes to our apps that are now being used to issue traffic tickets. We will be also carrying out a proper sensitization programme for both traffic cops and Kolkatans in general. We will begin the process on Tuesday itself, but it might take a couple more days to implement this notification in full,” said DC (traffic) Solomon V Nesakumar.
 
 The transport minister said the steep penalties were meant to act as a deterrent. While awareness was a key ingredient of the first phase of the “Safe Drive Save Life” campaign, sources indicated that phase II will focus on prosecution of err-ant drivers.
 
