GHAZIABAD: A 19-year-old woman, an orphan who used to work in a house in Saharanpur, was allegedly brought to Ghaziabad, kept in illegal confinement and raped for over one-and-a-half months recently. The police arrested three men on Wednesday for kidnapping and gang rape.

 According to police, the woman was rescued on July 11 from a house in Noorganj in Muradnagar, where she was allegedly held captive. The cops rescued her with the help of Asha Jyoti Kendra, the local wing of department of women & child development.
 
 The woman told police that she is an orphan and used to work in the house of one Furqan in Saharanpur. “We had received a call from I81 in Uttarakhand on June 1 about a woman being kept in captivity somewhere in Ghaziabad. The caller was put on surveillance and the location of the woman was determined. After her rescue, she was counselled by our women workers. She told us during counselling that three men named Mehndi Hassan, Akshay and Saad Malik brought her to Muradnagar where she was forcibly made to marry one Anil Kashyap. She was rescued from the house of Kashyap. She said that she was raped on several occasions. Currently she is in a state of shock and has not been able to reveal complete details about her ordeal,” Jeetendra Kumar, coordinator of Asha Jyoti Kendra told TOI.
 
 The cops took her for a medical test on July 11 and subsequently counselled her for three days. On Tuesday, the police registered an FIR at Muradnagar police station against six persons. The FIR was filed under sections 342 (wrongful confinement), 346 (wrongful confinement in secret), 376 (rape) and 376D (gang rape) of the IPC. Sections of Immoral Trafficking (Prevention) Act have also been added to the FIR.
 
 The cops later arrested three persons, including Anil Kashyap. “The investigation has been handed over to me by the district magistrate. The entire sequence of events from her arrival in Muradnagar from Saharanpur will be established after thorough questioning,” said circle officer, DSP Atish Kumar Singh.
 
