While speaking to Mirror earlier (August 11, 2014), Kamal Amrohi’s son Tajdar had acknowledged creative differences between him and  , who was onboard to direct the   biopic but had added that they were trying to iron out the issues. "Nair is the right man for the job, we will make it work," Tajdar had asserted.

 Now, we hear that things have taken a turn for the worse as the duo, who has been friends for 35 years, has parted ways. The twist is that both parties are determined to make the film under their respective banners.
 
  
  
 Tajdar asserts that his script has been ready since the last two-anda-half years and he is currently arranging finance for it. Shashilal maintains that his script is ready as well and he has already approached an actress for the title role while Jackie Shroff is onboard to play  .
 
 "Tajdar and I parted ways following creative differences. Now, I am directing and producing the film myself. We should go on the floors in October,” Shashilal asserts. Meanwhile, Tajdar is threatening legal action if Nair goes through with his plans. “She (Meena Kumari) is my mother; he (Amrohi Sr) is my father. It is my subject and no one can make a film on them without my permission. Shashilal can say that they are public figures but no one knows their actual facts except me so how can he go ahead and make the film? I will send him a legal notice if he does and also to the actor who is playing my father. He (Nair) is doing all this for cheap publicity," Tajdar retorts.
 
 Tajdar, who is often reported to have brought Nair back to India from a life of anonymity in the UK, says that collaborating with his former friend was his biggest mistake. "We were making a film called Nagrik in 2014 with newcomers but the budget shot up to Rs six crore. He has cheated and back-stabbed me. He even tried to create a rift between me and my sister (Rukhsar) and we broke off all ties with him towards the end of 2015," Tajdar rages.
 
 About Tajdar’s threats of legal action, Nair says blithely, "Both Meena Kumari and Kamal Amrohi are public figures. No one can stop me from making this film. I had actually been anticipating this nonsense."
 
  
  
 
