NEW DELHI: Soon after fellow singer   was suspended from Twitter,   announced he was going to quit the microblogging service. 

 In an outburst spread over 24 tweets on Wednesday,   described the social network as one “spewing venom” and “biased”. He expressed his anguish at the fact that Bhattacharya was suspended, and wrote: “I quit Twitter today in defiance of this one sided sham. Every logical sensible patriot and humanist should.”
 
 In a later tweet to his 6.5 million followers, he said, “I hope I never need to return here to clarify, but I never say never! At this point, my pious life needs to declutter.” Bhattacharya’s account was suspended from Twitter after some users complained of alleged misogynist and harassing tweetst. 
 
 Bhattacharya’s suspension apart, Nigam’s reaction also had to do with the controversy he found himself embroiled in this April. After he posted a few tweets complaining of the sound of the early morning azaan from a nearby mosque disturbing his sleep, he was branded by some on Twitter as an “Islamophobe” while some others came out in support. 
 
 A religious leader offered a bounty of Rs 10 lakh to one who would tonsure the singer’s head. Nigam then shaved his head, and demanded that he be paid his due. Nigam’s Wednesday rant covered all of these events and what he called the failure to hold a “sensible” and “balanced” discussion on Twitter. He also referenced Bhattacharya’s tweet against former JNU students’ union vice president Shehla Rashid.
 
 Earlier this week, Rashid had tweeted a news article about a sex scandal allegedly involving a BJP politician. Bhattacharya responded to it saying: “There is rumour (sic) she took money in advance for 2 hrs and didn’t satisfy the client.. big racket” “One could disagree with Abhijeetda’s language but isn’t Shehla’s accusation the BJP has a sex racket, provocation enough to supporters?” asked Nigam. Rashid responded to this on her Facebook page , saying: “Sonu Nigam has effectively justified Abhijeet’s comments by calling my tweet a ‘provocation’.
 
