NAGPUR: With no specific instructions available till late Thursday afternoon, there was no clarity on who would take charge from Piush Kumar, director of SCZCC, as his tenure is to end on February 2. Sources at the centre said that, in all likelihood, the charge would be handed over to either the divisional commissioner, collector or director of Raman Science Centre.

 Piush Kumar took charge in February 2014 for a three-year term which could be extended for up to seven years. But in a major move by the ministry of tourism and culture, it has been decided to replace all the directors of the seven cultural zones whose terms are ending. Two directors of cultural zones headquartered at Patiala and Dimapur have already been relieved. The director at Nagpur will relinquish office on Friday and the one at Allahabad will end his tenure in April this year.
 
 The appointments of these outgoing directors took place on the recommendation of a panel instituted under former minister   who had suggested that the top post be filled by candidates picked through National Talent Search programme and a multilevel selection process. Sources in the cultural ministry say that another reason to replace all the directors is that almost all of them were appointed during UPA regime. “The objective is to appoint persons who are more compliant with the government’s political ideology,” said a source citing example of appointment of   at FTII Pune.
 
 Kumar who awaited his release order on Thursday can be easily credited for raising the bar of events organized at the centre. He introduced many music and art programmes which promoted young talent from the seven states that are part of SCZCC.
 
 The Tagore Cultural Complex scheduled to come up at the current premises at a cost of Rs45 crore and a Sanskruti Gram for which 70 acres land had been given on the outskirts of the city were a result of his efforts. Under his steering the centre also became nodal agency for the cultural component at events like Make in India and   held at Vishakhapatnam last year.
 
 “I realize now that three years is a short tenure for works of such magnitude. The results for many of our initiatives like the documentation work commissioned by us, opening of regional centres in all seven states and refurbishing of   in Khajurao were all in the pipeline,” Kumar told TOI on Thursday.
 
 More than the projects, it was evolving of an international and national cultural policy that Kumar was keenly working upon. It was during his tenure that international artists were invited for music festival at Nagpur and Dhrupad festival at Gwalior. “We need an international cultural policy as our art and music is part of world heritage. I can do all this only if I am a part of the government machinery,” Kumar expressed. He would now be returning to his job in a government music college in Haryana.
 
