PATNA:   SSP Vivek Kumar on Monday constituted a six-member team headed by   Gaurav Pandey to probe the alleged gang   of a 14-year-old girl at Nawada village under Katra police station in Muzaffarpur district. The girl was allegedly gang-raped while she was returning home from Dussehra fair on September 28.

 “Although the girl’s parents lodged a complaint with police on October 1, we were informed about the incident on September 30 when a panchayat was held in the village to resolve the matter. A police team raided the village to arrest the accused persons. However, they managed to flee before the police team reached the village. Later, the police asked the girl’s parents to lodge an FIR in connection with the case. They finally lodged the complaint on Sunday. The victim’s statement has been recorded and her medical examination confirmed rape,” the SSP added.
 
 The girl was allegedly gang-raped by four persons – Anish Kumar, Roshan Kumar, Gagan Kumar and Sachin Kumar. All the four accused are residents of Nawada village. The girl, a resident of Fakiradih village under Gaighat police station in Muzaffarpur district, had gone to Nawada village along with her family members to participate in a Dussehra fair.
 
 The girl told the police that she was abducted and gang-raped by the quartet at a secluded place. They also videographed the act and threatened the girl with dire consequences if she informed anyone about the crime. Police said raids were on to arrest the accused persons.
 
 Meanwhile, when chief minister Nitish Kumar’s reaction was sought by mediapersons at an event here on Monday, he did not offer any comment.
 
 However, minister for women empowerment and social welfare Manju Varma told reporters she has informed the CM about the incident and the government is taking action.
 
 Condemning the incident, building construction minister Maheshwar Hazari said the government would take stringent action against those involved.
 
 National Women’s Commission member Sushma Sahu said the commission would intervene strongly in support of the girl.
 
 The incident, meanwhile, provided an opportunity to rival RJD to attack the JD (U). “Reports of such incidents are pouring in from different parts of   but the government is not paying any heed to such incidents,” former CM Rabri Devi said.
 
 
