:

 
 
 My experience in working with numbers is that it is difficult when you try to get a sense from a variety of simple assessments which is what people tend to do. What we do is to piece together a fair amount of data. What we require is a lot more.The disconnect (between expectation and outcomes) is in part because people have not put this together. One example in Q3. Many analysts were surprised when corporate results came. These were better than expected. But shouldn’t the same translate when fed into the GDP compilation? Agriculture does not seem to have been disrupted, so should not the outcome be the same? GDP is on principles evolved over the years. The rule of thumb can’t change.
 
 
 
 
 It can’t be inventories because corporates are reporting sales. One argument will say – they have sold but the dealers have held on. Possible. But the counter factual is we are seeing higher corporate performance in filing and higher performance in trade estimates due to sales tax collections. For something that is not observed, I don’t know what the reality is. You may say this is not the entire corporate world. You can say outside this data the world could be different. This is unanswerable. Where nobody has seen anything, anybody can assume anything. At least give both sides equal weight.
 
 
 
 
 How do we assess this sector? We use a class of indicators. It is misleading that all of this (data for GDP) is all formal sector. There are four sectors that capture much of this. Agriculture we assess through a structured way of estimating acreage, yield and costs. In construction, we look at consumption of key inputs. Then in trade, we look at sales and service and estimate value added. In manufacturing, there is a certain assumption but these are large and robust time series. If these are to be contested, it should be more than an assertion. Assertions unsupported by statistical evidence are beliefs.
 
 
 
 
 Yes it is. Not just with statistics. The nature of political discourse is such that the possibility of bipartisan consensus has reduced. Government action is in political domain... I have no problem with dialogue. It is good if someone says this is a better way.
 
 
 
 We don’t directly measure consumption. We infer consumption from what we have seen in value added. GDP is fundamentally an aggregate. It is possible that parts of the population could have been affected. But relying on anecdotal evidence or casual empiricism is not a good way to estimate GDP as also a variety of social processes.
 
 
 
 Yes, there is an element of Q3 to Q3 comparison as Q3 numbers were revised. But the counter factual is not as easy as people make it out. First, the estimate for last year was revised because more information became available on 2015-16. This involves the fact that quarterly estimates for last year were also revised. We revised the full estimate and to this we applied indicators. So, the new Q3 is applied to the revised benchmark.
 
 
 
 
 That is true. Large measure was because of good rains. It also compares well with two bad years. It is the major story, not the only story. ¢What are the others? Government expenditure has held up. Corporate performance has not been poor.
 
 
 
 
 Trouble with people who are taking of poor performance is they are doing it in one of two ways. Using anecdotal stories can be a problem as perceptions can be like opinion polls. And the other is modelling assumptions.
 
