PUNE: With five   coming up in the city and more in the pipeline, students can look forward to more choices in terms of courses, better infrastructure facilities and hands-on opportunities for learning and skill development.

 Besides, these universities will enjoy greater autonomy in terms of decision making. Moreover, self-financed universities will be able to attract qualified faculty members by offering lucrative salaries, experts said. But there is a flipside too. The cost of education will not be cheap. Though some believe competition will force the new universities to offer courses at an affordable cost.
 
 Extolling the benefits of self-financed universities, D S Kulkarni, founder and chairman of  , said, “We have a student from Japan who has to renew his visa every year because we used to offer a certificate programme and was not affiliated to any university. This was a big hassle for students, especially from European and other countries. But now since we have become a university, we will be able to offer our own degrees and students can get education visa for a full five-year term.”
 
 Symbiosis Society has also got a self-financed university called Symbiosis Skills and  . Swati Mujumdar, director of   said, “The bill has been passed but it will still take some time for the procedure to be completed. We will offer various courses which will have 70% practical and 30% theoretical content. Our focus is on building skills of students and making them employable.”
 
 “The best part of being a self-financed university is the level of autonomy it enjoys in terms of decision making. This should be utilised to adopt the best courses, best syllabi, best teaching facilities and better administration. This can lead to poaching of renowned teachers from traditional colleges or other cities or even from abroad. But competition is always good,” said W N Gade, vice chancellor,  . He cited the example of how good doctors from government hospitals were lured by private hospitals. Gade further said that with increase in the income of people and the rise in the number of college-going students every year, there will be no dearth of students if quality is maintained. “Students can make a choice from a wide array of courses on offer. But the colleges will have to keep the courses affordable, otherwise they will lose out on quality students who may not be able to pay high fees,” said Gade, adding that it will also open up a wide range of option for teachers nearing the retirement age.
 
 Jasin Sidharthan, a student at Fergusson College, said, “Since there are reputed universities like Savitribai Phule Pune University and well established deemed universities in Pune, the only clinching factor for the new universities will be the variety of courses they offer. The courses have to be class apart and the faculty members should also be competent. Only then will a good student opt for the courses by pay high fees. If the universities cut cost by employing poor faculty members, the purpose of self-financed universities will be lost.”
 
 However, not all were convinced about the benefits of self-financed universities. Akash P, a final-year student of geology, said, “Only students from upper middle-class families can study in these universities. Since these universities won’t receive funds from the government, the same will be raised from students. So, the fees will be high for any course, which students belonging to middle or even lower middle class will not be able to afford.”
 
