Though the films that he presents bear his name,  , owner of PEN ( ), doesn’t consider himself a producer. He continues to maintain that he’s a trader, even as he gears up for his upcoming action flicks —'Commando 2' and 'Machine' — after his last releases 'Shivaay' and 'Singham 3' (Tamil), along with his production 'Kahaani 2'. 

 Ask him about backing movies of this genre and he smiles, “I’m back in action since last April, after a 16-month break. I had thought that my elder son Dhaval would handle the business, but he ventured into unexplored territories by making films in Telugu, Tamil and Kannada. When I rejoined after the sabbatical, our company had already strengthened its association with action films.” 
 
 Gada is pleased with the response the trailers and music of Commando 2 and Machine have received. He enthuses, “After 'Shivaay' and 'Singham 3', both of which did well, I’m optimistic about my upcoming releases. Vidyut Jammwal’s market will only grow with 'Commando 2' and   will score as a debutant with 'Machine'. Abbas-Mustan have worked hard on it, like it’s their debut film as well. We’re working with Vipul Shah and Reliance   on 'Commando 2' and Abbas-Mustan, Harish Patel and Pranay Choksi on 'Machine', our collaborations is proof that we continue to work with everyone in the film industry.” 
 
 The veteran is clear that he doesn’t want to be a creative person. “We’re a family of traders, having started with a kirana store. We want to be the best in our domain and I’m thankful to the film industry for working with us. Subhash Chandra Goyal and Dhirubhai Shah are my gurus and I’m grateful that my association with them took PEN so far. Our company’s journey is entering a new phase with my sons Dhaval and Akshay venturing into digital space with their apps,” he says.
 
 At a time when studios are going slow on production, Gada’s company is expanding and exploring new territory. He says, “PEN has always kept up with the times. When the shift happened from video to satellite and now digital, we adapted to change. Since the digital space requires big money, we may need to borrow through public issues.” 
 
 Gada, who is also venturing into Gujarati space with 'GujjuBhai 2' and 'Chitkaar', says that he will make a couple of films annually in this language, too. About his new films, he concedes he’s yet to green-light projects as he recently acquired MTunes and is planning three more channels. “Now we’re into broadcasting as well. The idea is to reduce the Prints and Advertising (P&A) cost on films to maximise profit,” he sums up. 
 
 Jayantilal Gada, who has moved along with the changing times, is upbeat about his sons taking the family company, PEN (Popular Entertainment Network), into the television and digital space. While his elder son Dhaval had produced the film, Issaq, which didn’t fare well, he’s more than made up for it with two TV shows 'Udann and 'Naamkarann', which are doing well. Younger son, Akshay is foraying into the digital space with an app, Bollywood Times. 
 About branching into TV, Dhaval says, “After making a film, my partner and I decided to do something on television. When we heard the concept of 'Udann', we thought it would work. Given that it has crossed 750 episodes, it feels good to know we were on the right track. 'Naamkarann' has also crossed 150 episodes.” 
 
 Asserting that their idea was to do something offbeat while retaining the commercial viability, he says, “Viewers are loving the characters and the story.” Moreover, he has three more shows in the pipeline. “One has already been approved by the channel. We have a game-based reality show in mind too, but we’ll work on that when the technology is more feasible and the market, ready.” 
 
 Movies continue to be on his mind as the young producer reveals, “Our other goal is to produce more films. I have a subject that is written by Mahesh Bhatt and we’re looking at making it with new faces.” 
 
 Akshay, who is the most digitally savvy in the family, is gearing up to launch his app in a month or so. “With everything going digital, I decided to create an app that gives maximum information on all things Bollywood, be it a film personality or a movie. It will all be in one app, so you don’t have to search for information on various sites.” 
 
 Currently fine-tuning the same, Akshay also has plans to synergise it with his brother Dhaval’s movies’ app, which also launches in a month or so. “I’ll be able to reveal more once we start rolling,” he says. 
 
 Dhaval adds, “The movies app will be like the General Entertainment Channels. Our target audience is Bollywood viewers across India. While there is stiff competition, we have over a thousand movie titles and are increasing our count to give the most to our audience.” 
 
 Summing it up, Jayantilal Gada says, “Dhaval’s partner is Gurudev Bhalla, who directed Shararat starring Abhishek Bachchan; Mahesh Bhatt is their guardian. They have overcome flops and succeeded on TV. I’m sure they will go a long way. Akshay is just 20, so he has time to stumble and rise again. He and his partner Mehul Brahmbhatt are tech savvy and have got favourable response from the test run of their app. Multiplexes across India are supporting it, too. I am positive their apps will do well.” 
 
 
 
