PUNE: In the process of raising 17 mountain strike corps to counter China threats, the mechanised forces of the   are making changes to its training curriculum to operate effectively in mountain regions, top Army officers said on Tuesday.

 The corps, which will be the Army’s fourth strike corps and first for the mountains, will comprise two independent infantry brigades, two infantry divisions and two independent armoured brigades that will be provided with all the supporting arms of the force, the officer said. They were interacting with the media on the sidelines of a firepower exercise organised by the   (ACC&S) and   (MIRC) at KK Range in Ahmednagar.
 
 On training aspects of the corps for high altitude, Brigadier General Staff (BGS) Sandeep Jhunja said, “Though the mechanised forces had been deployed in high altitude regions, a large scale induction of these forces at high altitude is a recent requirement. We are drawing up experiences from other units, which are deployed there. Also, we are utilizing our data and accordingly making changes in the technical training curriculum. The first batch will be trained as per the new curriculum” he said.
 
 Maj Gen P Dixit, Commandant of the Armoured Corps Centre and School (ACC&S), Ahmednagar, said, the personnel from the mechanisesd forces have done a commendable job in counter insurgency operations. 
 
 Meanwhile, Brig VV Subramaniam, Commandant of the Mechanised Infantry Regimental Centre (MIRC), Ahmednagar, said, “In the scenario of hybrid warfare, we have to adopt changes in order to arrest contemporary challenges. As the equipment evolves so our tactics.” 
 
 Fire power demonstration 
 
 The spectacular demonstration of the fire power and manoeuvre showcased the mechanised forces capabilities, proficiency and operational preparedness. Besides the most modern equipment in the inventory of the Army, the main attraction remained T-90 tanks. The demonstration was conducted over two hours wherein part 1 included the technological and tactical capability of the integrated might of the tanks, ICVs and attack helicopters. During Part-2, firing on static and dynamic mode was carried out, followed by a display manoeuvre by the attack vehicles.
 
