THANE: The late night addiction to mobiles or watching of their favorourite football game on television till the pre-dawn hour has affected the bedtime habits of most Thaneites. The lake city can easily be tagged as one of the cities with most sleep-deprived population and the average   duration of a teen to a middle-aged person falling has become a matter of concern, say  . 

 On the occasion of World Sleep Day on March 17, doctors said the constant streaming on the net rather than dreaming in bed is the major cause of sleep disturbances and insomnia in most cases.
 
 “We could easily be described as a city with most sleep-deprived population. Incorrect use of technology has robbed us of our sleep time as people continue to be hooked to their smartphones, or laptops or television till late hours. It is going to pose a big problem in the near future as chronic sleep deprivation will not only take a toll on the health and well-being but the work performance will also be hit,” said Dr Shailesh Umate, psychiatrist at  .
 
 “The constant gazing at the bright light emitted from the hand-held device or a computer screen or the TV, when it is the time to jump into bed, is harming the biological clock and cause of sleep disorders. The eyes are exposed to bright light as the sleep hormone i.e Melatonin won’t be activated until the surrounding is dark.
 
 Because of the lights around, the secretion happens late and sleep time is advanced and never completed. However, when the same person goes to a village with zero net connectivity and lights around switch off by 10 pm, he is snoring in the next ten minutes as he is no longer exposure to lights,” he added.
 
 Another city sleep specialist said the fast-paced life in metros, late night dinning or for that matter exercises in the dark hours are also contributing to sleep disorders.
 
 “When we are small till the age of two years there is no one to bother us and thus our sleep pattern does not change. But as we grow, due to schools, office etc we keep adjusting our sleep pattern, thus there is irregularity in sleeping. Also, it is commonly seen that now a days children stay awake till late, just like their parents and sleep late. Not only the habits of parents staying awake are the reason for the children to not go to bed early, but at times even their school timings affect them,” he added. 
 
 Like, children who have schools in the afternoon, tend to play in the evenings, due to which they are energetic during the night, which results them in to sleeping late, also as their school is in the noon, they wake up late,” explained Dr Umate.
 
 
