Gurgaon: The   ( ) has slapped notices on the Gurgaon  , the department of town and country planning ( ) and the developer of  , for demanding exorbitant power bills from residents of the Sector 51  .

 After repeated petitions to the state government and the developer, Ardee Infrastructure Private Limited, fell on deaf ears, the Ardee City RWA approached NCDRC on March 9, accusing the developer of charging 12% extra on electricity bills. The residents also alleged the developer had failed to provide basic infrastructure mentioned in the sales brochure.
 
 Hearing the case, the consumer forum on April 6 served notices to the parties involved, and directed them to submit their replies by August 3. 
 
 “We tried approaching everybody in the Haryana government, but in vain. Even after filing a complaint with the Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC), nothing happened,” said Romesh Kumar Gupta, president of the Ardee City RWA.
 
 The residents alleged they had been paying for electricity consumption at a rate much higher than the one fixed by the power discom and the regulator. “We have been paying more than the fixed prices. The developer claimed the exorbitant amounts were charged for maintenance costs,” said Vik Singh, a RWA member.
 
 Residents also alleged the developer did not upgrade power supply lines, nor construct a GIS substation in the colony, and also failed to deliver basic infrastructure like schools, dispensary, temple and clubhouse, as promised at the time of sale. 
 
 “The developer had taken approvals for four primary schools, four nursery schools, one temple and one dispensary from DTCP. But none of them has come up yet,” RWA president Gupta said.
 
 In September last year, the residents had written to chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar prompting DHBVN to intervene in the matter. The discom had then promised the residents they would not be charged the 12% surcharge on their power bills. But the developer allegedly added the 12% to the power bills as high tension losses, besides increasing maintenance charges.
 
 Denying the residents’ allegations, the developer said it had not yet received a copy of the NCDRC notice. “Electricity is being supplied by DHBVN at a certain rate and we distribute it to residents thereafter, through infrastructure we’ve built. Further, there are AT&C losses and common area power usage. Consequently, we suffer losses,” said Anil Hasija, VP, Ardee Infrastructure. He also claimed the buyer agreement did mention that the developer could charge 12% extra on power bills. 
 
 Senior town planer Y M Mansuri did not revert to calls or messages.
 
 
