INDORE: Foreign affairs minister   has taken cognizance of a married woman from Madhya Pradesh’s Nagda town, allegedly being held captive by a sheikh in   after being summoned as a housemaid.

 The matter was brought to the notice of Swaraj by union minister for social justice and empowerment Dr Thawarchand Gehlot, following complaints that the woman, a mother of four, was being held captive against her wishes.
 
 The matter came to fore in June, when the woman, who had left for Saudi Arabia through a travel agent to work at the house of a Sheikh on May 28, made a phone call home informing her husband about the mental and physical harassment meted out at her.
 
 She claimed that she was held captive by the sheikh under the garb of kafala system used to monitor migrant laborers. The system requires all unskilled laborers to have an in-country sponsor, usually their employer, who is responsible for their visa and legal status.
 
 “The victim claimed that she was mentally and physically harassed by the sheikh. She had found some Indian worker and managed to gain his confidence, thus allowing her an opportunity to make the phone call,” said social activist Pankaj Maru, who pursued the matter and took it up with Gehlot.
 
 Swaraj has directed Indian embassy in   to pursue the matter and secure her release. “The embassy has asked for her passport number, which I am in the process of providing,” Maru said.
 
 The woman was apparently taken to Sharjah and kept there for three days, before a work permit for Saudi Arabia was procured, he said adding “we could not find any visa details of the woman for Saudi Arabia. In Sharjah, there is visa on arrival facility.”
 
 While the foreign affairs ministry has taken up the matter, Nagda police are investigating the role of travel agents, who sent her abroad.
 
 Acting on the complaint of the victim’s husband, the police had detained and questioned one Sabir Shah, a resident of Indore, Nagda police station in-charge   told TOI.
 
 Shah had contacted one Nazeer in Mumbai for making travel and employment arrangements for the Nagda-based woman. A police team led by SI Salamat Ali had visited Mumbai to trace Nazeer, but he could not be traced. The team met his wife, who claimed that they had separated.
 
 Ali claimed that police have clues that Nazeer might be hiding in Andhra Pradesh.
 
