He’s a singer, composer, lyricist, actor and theatre producer — all at the age of 24.   has wowed many with his rendition of the song   from  . The multi-talented youngster gives us a glimpse into his journey and why he feels that he has now got the right platform…

 
 
 I am a theatre artiste and have been associated with theatre since I was a child. I sing, compose, write lyrics, act and have even produced plays. Honestly, I didn’t know that all these things that I did were actually many different things. We are used to doing everything in theatre — it is like one big package, where you have the freedom to explore every field. It was only after people started recognizing what I did that I realized that each was a separate talent. 
 
 
 
 I sang and composed the music for the Kannada film, Rama Rama Re.   liked the texture of my voice. In fact, D  , the director of Rama Rama Re, had written another version of the same song, which I sung on a mobile phone and sent to Rakshit. He liked that and that’s how the song came into being. 
 
 
 
 Being associated with a successful film does matter. I have sung other songs in the past that were equally well composed, but this one really stood out. The film helped my song reach a lot of people, which I am happy about. But most people don’t know that I have sung Kaagadada Doniyalli — only those who know me are aware of this. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 It is always an advantage when you compose and sing as well, as the emotions come out really well — one does not need to depend on another singer for the final output. The song flows in your heart and you can hear that when you sing. When you are only a composer, it is another process and there is a chance of dilution of the true feelings. 
 
 
 
 Like theatre, I have always been associated with films. Filmmaker TS Nagabharana is my uncle, so that is a major link that I have to the film industry. Apart from that, I have worked as an assistant director, acted and written a couple of songs when I was in college. After having worked with music directors like Raghu Dixit, K Kalyan, V Manohar and Anoop Seelin, I feel like I have been getting the right platform now.
 
 
 
 I have sung a couple of songs that are yet to be released. Apart from that, I am also composing songs for a few movies, including Rishab Shetty’s children’s film and the Telugu version of Rama Rama Re. My association with theatre is still strong — Bheemayana, a play written by   that I am a part of, will be staged in the city at the end of the month.
 
