The Rani of Jhansi Regiment in Subhas Chandra  's INA has been shrouded in fiction and rumours. A historian gets to the truth of this `death-defying' regiment
By the end of 1944 and the beginning of 1945, the Empire of Japan was in a precarious state.
 
 And with it, the Indian National Army (INA) or Azad Hind Fauj led by Subhas Chandra Bose.
 
 One thing that really upset Bose was defections with entire battalions crossing over to the British lines. Only one set of people didn't flinch in their loyalty towards him. His Ranis. Or the   members of the Rani Jhansi Regiment (RJR).
 
 Only a few days after his arrival in Singapore, on July 9, 1943, Bose had addressed a gathering of 60,000 Indians.There, he had made a stunning demand: “I want also a unit of brave Indian women to form a `Death-defying Regiment' who will wield the sword, which the brave Rani of Jhansi wielded in India's First War of Independence in 1857.“
 
 The result was this all-women regiment of the INA that has been the stuff of legends and folklore. But only now there is some definitive account of these Indian women who fought patriarchy and sexual oppression as part of the force but never really fought the enemy .
 
 “It was an experiment quite out of the ordinary: a result of Bose's intellectual support to women's liberation. He was far ahead of his time, wasn't he? He thought back in 1943 the way we think about women's rights today ,“ says Vera Hildebrand, the author of the latest book, Women at War: Subhas Chandra Bose and the Rani of Jhansi Regiment.
 
 “However, at a more personal level, Bose found it difficult to implement what he supported in principle,“ she added. A senior research fellow at the University of Copenhagen, Denmark, Hildebrand is in India right now and spoke exclusively to TOI in between sessions at the Jaipur Literature Festival.
 
 It took Hildebrand eight years to complete the book. She tracked down all the 30 surviving Ranis and visited each one of them in India, Malaysia, Singapore and the US. “But getting more details was difficult as most of the works on Bose had been hagiographies with very little information about the Ranis. I had to look elsewhere,“ she said.
 
 But call it irony or fate, the most insightful stories about these women who fought against the British Empire came from the British. Hildebrand managed to consult over 23,000 interrogation reports prepared by the British intelligence. “These reports had fascinating information about these women. The British officers remarked that the Ranis were the most loyal soldiers of INA. Not a single one deserted him or defected to the Allies,“ Hildebrand says.
 
 In fact, the Ranis, 450 of them in all, deified Bose. “Many had a crush on him.Almost all the Ranis I spoke to believed he was very handsome. The attention they gave him was akin to what   would get at a later time from his women fans,“ Hildebrand said.
 
 Yet how was Bose towards them? “He was almost fatherly . He protected them, gave them special treatment. To the extent that there was talk of the Ranis getting better food and clothing than the male members of the INA.“
 
 Many of the Ranis, Hildebrand said, believed in Bose's ability to deliver freedom to India. They were also quite upset that Nehru, and not Bose got the chance to lead a free India. “Bose was like a god to them. He could do no wrong,“ she said.
 
 However, 3 of the 30 women Hildebrand tracked down refused to be interviewed, saying that they regretted joining the INA. Bose's Faustian treaty with the devil (read the Empire of Japan and   Germany) troubled them in later life. “One of them said she was too young and naïve to understand Bose's politics when she joined INA. As an adult, she regretted it. She believed Bose was wrong in siding with the Japanese, by going against Gandhi, and was actually disloyal to the freedom movement,“ Hildebrand said.
 
 But was it just a matter of chance or deliberate policy that the Ranis never saw combat? Hildebrand tries to answer it in her book: “Unless further evidence materialises, it will never be known exactly what mission Bose had in mind for the RJR. The overwhelming consensus of the citizens of Singapore regarding the uniformed women singing and marching through the streets of their war-torn city was that the RJR was simply a propaganda stunt. It is possible that Bose never intended to send the Ranis into battle, although the Ranis repeatedly pointed out that their contract with Bose was that they serve in combat at the frontline.“
 
 Bose had himself reasoned that the spectacle of women fighting a liberation war would strengthen the resolve of the INA 's male soldiers. But is it possible that he wanted the women to be martyrs, sacrificed at the altar of freedom?
 Quite possible, going by the book.
 
 
