Panaji: Goa’s oldest surviving ferry, Pomburpa, is soon going to be ‘condemned’ along with two others this year. The medium-sized vessel was manufactured in 1961 and has been sailing smoothly for over five decades. 

 A vehicle that is condemned can no longer be used. It has to be inspected before its fate is decided. “The condemnation committee, as per government directives, will inspect the ferry boats and fix the offset price. The auctioning will follow as per government guidelines,” Vikram Rajebhosale senior superintendent, RND added. 
 
 The river navigation department (RND) is currently proposing to build another ferry to take its place on the route. “Though the Pomburpa is being condemned, we want its legacy to continue. A new ferry will replace the vessel but we want to retain the name since it has been the longest-serving ferry post-liberation,” said Rajebhosale.
 
 He added that the dimensions of the proposed new vessel will be the same as the existing one, but the registration number is bound to change. Pomburpa’s old body will be auctioned off for approximately Rs 4-5 lakh.
 
 During the Liberation, the ferry operated along the Tonca-Sarmanas route. Unlike today, commuters did not have the comfort of a ramp to get on and off. Instead, a makeshift ladder was used to allow access to the vessel from river-bank.
 
 The ferry gradually operated along the Vashi-Amboi route followed by the Dhauji-Tolto route, before ending its stint on the Volvoi-Surla-Maina route. Owing to its medium size, it could accommodate 80 passengers and four vehicles with ease.
 
 Though the Pomburpa carried a slightly different look in the sixties, major overhauls to renovate it over the years have resulted in its current appearance. The first renovation was taken up in 1986 by Goa Shipyard Limited. Thereon, regular maintenance works continued until a major repair was carried out in 1994 by a private party at the RND marine workshop. 
 
 The most recent overhaul was done in the year 2007.
 
 These upgradation works included change in engine, steel and replacement of parts.
 
 The other two ferries that are likely to be condemned are ‘Kerim’ and ‘Dona Paula’, both manufactured in 1997. Though the ferries are 30 years younger than Pomburpa, the need for costly repairs has led to their condemnation before time.
 
 “Major steel replacement is required for the two ferries, the cost of which is over 50% of the price of a new ferry. Instead of spending a whopping sum on repairs, it is better to replace them,” said Rajebhosale.
 
 All three ferries are currently parked at the Betim jetty, awaiting their fate.
 
 
