PUNE: The growth in digital transactions seems to have slowed down a bit with the total transactions via alternative modes in January lagging behind the figures in December — both in terms of value as well as volume.

 With the   and in many bank branches, the number of digital transactions has dipped. The value of overall digital transactions fell by 10.38% in January compared to December. In volume terms, the transaction value fell 7% to Rs96.79 lakh crore. This is evident from the   data on the RBI website. 
 
 In December, there were a total of 957.5 million   — a jump of 42.59% over November. In value terms, the total transaction value increased by 10.69% to Rs104.05 lakh crore in December over November.
 
 Alternative channel transactions include Real Time Gross Settlement, National Electronic Funds Transfer, cheques, transactions over point of sale terminals (swipe machines) and prepaid payments instruments like digital wallets among others.
 
 Like in November and December, the Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) accounted for over 80% of the value of online transaction. RTGS is used by people who want to transfer large amount of money — typically valued at over Rs2 lakh per transaction. RTGS is mainly used by corporates to transfer funds for their business transactions.
 
 The government had given a big push to digital transactions post-demonetisation. To make swipe machines more ubiquitous, it had slashed the duties on point of sale (PoS) terminals. However, the number of transactions through this mode also fell 18.61% in January to 253.1 million compared to December.
 
 Correspondingly, the value of transactions also fell 12.23% to Rs45,830 crore in January over December.
 
 Transaction value and volume of prepaid instruments like digital wallets also stagnated in January compared to December — at about 87.3 million transactions and total value of Rs2,100 crore.
 
 The transaction quantum and value found similar resemblance with the country’s largest lender —   (SBI).
 
 “For us also, digital transactions have gone down in January compared to December both in value and number, but still they are more than 3.5 to 4 times as compared to pre-demonetisation days. As cash supplies are improving, people are getting back to cash but not to the extent that they were using earlier,” said Manju Agarwal, deputy managing director (corporate strategy & new business), SBI.
 
 This momentum towards cashless mode has to sustain and even grow exponentially, if the country has to reach even a 25% cashless transaction value by 2020. Various estimates put the total value of digital payments now at only 5-7%.
 
 
 
 The average transaction value went up for debit and credit card spending over PoS in January compared to December. In December, although volumes had risen over November, the average value per transaction had dropped — indicating people were still holding back spending.
 
 “The pressure of demonetisation has also eased up a bit and cash is also back. So, people now have both the options to spend and so it will be fair to assume that digital transactions might dip in the coming months,” said Vivek Belgavi, partner, financial services — Fintech and technology consulting leader, PwC.
 
