GURUGRAM: The dream home has turned into a living nightmare for around 250 families at Ansal   in  . Residents haven’t been provided with basic infrastructure while   arrangements are a joke, let alone rosy promises that have remained unfulfilled. They shared their sense of betrayal when a TOI team visited them on Sunday.

 
  
 
 This society lacks basic   services. The daily practice of sweeping the common areas is not followed in the 120 acres here. Sweepers arrive once a fortnight and the responsibility is fulfilled by the residents on other days, reveals Amit Jaiswal. 
 
 Ansal Esencia had promised that solar power would light up the society, and that each house would have energy-efficient appliances. “We checked the documents and noticed that they installed sodium-vapour street lights instead of solar lamps. Their geysers and air-conditioners break down every few months. The maintenance company does not get them repaired and we have to pay for it,” complained Partha Chakravorty.
 
 “The township was projected as the first to have GRIHA (Green Buildings Rating System India) ratings, but no information has been shared as to what parameters they have submitted to get the said certification, as on-ground realities suggest something else,” Chakravorty added.
 
 The rains has added to the sense of helplessness and neglect residents on the ground floor feel. The drain, they say, overflows and sewage water enters the basement area, making it unlivable. “Sewage floats inside the house and raises a stench, turning it into a breeding ground for germs. The property inside has got soiled. It has been three years that I have not been able to use that part of the house,” rued Surat Singh.
 
 “They are charging for basements which come with the ground floor. But no service is being provided like water connection, (there’s) no sewage point or basic broom cleaning, etc, (and) no justification on part of SFML (an Ansal subsidiary),” added Singh.
 
 Even the top floors are not spared, according to Anil Gulani. “There is seepage in every house and despite multiple complaints to the maintenance agency, nothing has been done so far,” shared Gulani.
 
 To add to their woes, the residents have to put up with a lot of construction dust, conditions that can lead to various respiratory ailments and diseases. Such complaints are not looked into even after multiple requests. “There is construction going on in the neighbouring plot but they haven’t covered the area. This is a clear violation of National Green Tribunal norms,” argues Sameer Kalra.
 
 Residents allege that the sewage treatment plant is too small to accommodate even 250 families. “They are now dumping sewage waste into a neighbouring plot. It raises an unbearable stench and we cannot go for morning walks. One can only imagine what kind of diseases are breeding here,” worries Shailesh Sahu, RWA president.
 
 Further, the realtor, the residents said, had promised a parking lot for each of the three housing units, which too hasn’t been delivered, leading to fights among residents every day.
 
 Security is another major concern for the residents, as the township doesn’t have any gates. In addition, security guards are changed frequently, and are not paid regularly. “At a time we have only three to four security guards for the entire society, while the minimum requirement is of 20 to 30. We were promised three-tier security – it is not even one-tier,” disclosed Suprotin Banerjee.
 
 Preeti Gupta said that guards here are unable to differentiate between residents and outsiders, so frequently are they changed. “Last week, a few boys came on a bike and harassed a maid – an FIR has been registered too. In one year, six-seven FIRs have been registered at Badshapur police station,” shared Gupta.
 
 Then there’s the sight of workers bathing and relieving themselves in the open – not a “pleasant” one to have in your backyard, says housewife Abha Gupta.
 
