Hyderabad: The United States of America was the land of his dreams, recalled friends of   who converged at the Vaikunta Mahaprasthanam on Tuesday afternoon to bid a tearful adieu to their friend of many years. 

 Recalling their time together in college, they reminisced how the electrical engineer, during his years as a student, often spoke about travelling to the US and building a career for himself there. Sadly, his promising journey was cut short in the same country. 
 
 “He was highly ambitious and always had his eyes set on the US,” said Suhas Chandra, who went to the Aziz Nagar-based Vidya Jyothi Institute of Technology (VJIT) along with Srinivas from 2001 to 2005. Admitting that he was left dumb-struck on hearing of Srinivas’ death, Chandra said how it was “extremely unfortunate” that an “intelligent, fun loving and polite person” like him should be shot so mercilessly. 
 
 “It is disheartening that Srinivas faced such a gruesome death,” he said, demanding that the US government take serious measures to eradicate   from the country.
 
 While professors who taught the 32-year-old at VJIT failed to remember too much about his years there, they did vaguely recall Srinivas’ great American dream. “I knew about Sreenu’s (as he was fondly called) ambition of pursuing an MSc in the US. He was among those students who always sat on the front bench and was a keen learner,” said a teary-eyed Saikh Mohammed Zafarulla, head of the electrical & electronics engineering department at VJIT. “Soon after graduating from college, he embarked upon his journey to the US. He never visited the college after that,” he added.
 
 While Srinivas’ last rites unfolded at Jubilee Hills, his alma mater on the other side of the city simultaneously held a condolence meet that was attended by close to 100 BTech students. The gathering was addressed by director of the college, P Venugopal Reddy.
 
 Old-time faculty members at both venues fondly remembered the young engineer as an “exceptional student” who “struck a great balance between academics and extra-curricular activities”. He was also a “calm, quiet student” who kept away from all conflicts. 
 
 Also present at the crematorium were members of the city’s Forum of IT Professionals, who have been condemning the act since Srinivas’ death. Standing firmly by the family, they said how the techie’s death has come has a huge jolt to the entire IT fraternity. 
 
 “Such incidences will only create fear among techies planning to travel abroad. With rising hatred for immigrants in the US, we stand by the Kuchitbhotla family and all Indians working there or planning to go there on on-site assignments,” said Praveen Chandrahas, a member of the forum.
 
 
