Bhopal:  , no increments. Government employees in Shivpuri district of Madhya Pradesh stand to lose their increments if they do not have a toilet at the residence by Monday.

 The latest diktat from the district collector comes after suspension of two government teachers for open defecation in neighbouring Ashoknagar district.
 
 And, as the deadline approaches, the government employees are anxious.
 
 Sources in the district administration said there are orders to stop increment of those employees who does not have a toilet at home. The employees are also required to submit a certificate by October 2, stating that they use a toilet at home.
 
 District collector Tarun Rathi said, “We are hoping to make the district open defecation free (ODF) by March 2018. Everybody, especially the government employees are required to pull up their socks and help to meet the deadline.”
 
 However, a government document of the district about the housing units and facilities revealed
 
 that out of 1,022 housing units, 438 are without toilets. In 112 other government houses, there is no toilet as these houses were not maintained. The government houses are maintained by the local municipal body and the public works department.
 
 How can an employee ensure a toilet in the government quarter?, asked an upset employee. 
 
 “Government quarters are not a personal property of the occupant. And the government agencies always talk about lack of funds when asked to maintain the building or construct a toilet,” employees said.
 
 The collector said, “we are committed to meet the target by the deadline of March 2018. There are almost one lakh toilets which need to to be constructed in Shivpuri to make it an ODF district.”
 
 On September 9, two government teachers were suspended in Ashoknagar for violating the Swachh Bharat campaign and defecating in open. One of them Prakash Prajapati, an assistant teacher posted at a government primary school was suspended because his wife had gone out for open defecation.
 
 The order said teacher’s wife went out for open defecation despite having a toilet in the house.
 
 
