HYDERABAD: American hero Ian Grillot was presented a cheque for $100,000 by the Indian-American community in the USA to buy a house in his home town Kansas. 

 At an event organised in Houston, Ian Grillot, the 24-year-old, who risked his life in his bid to save two Hyderabadis in the US, was lauded for his bravery. With his right hand still bandaged, Ian attended the function and acknowledged the love and deep sense of gratitude of the Indian-American community.
 
 On February 22, Grillot made a valiant attempt to save   when Adam Purinton started firing at the Indian techie at Austin's Bar and Grill, Olathe. While Srinivas died, his colleague Alok Madasani was injured in the shooting along with Grillot.
 
 "It is not every day that one meets a genuine hero - a person who risks his life for another, and takes a bullet for a complete stranger. Ian Grillot is a man who reminds us of the promise of America and its greatness," said Jiten Agarwal, a prominent Houstonian and Chair of  . 
 
 The Indian-American community in Houston felt one way to show Ian Grillot that his act was laudable was by helping him buy a house.  , a prominent Houstonian of Indian origin, proposed the gift of house, and offered to match every dollar raised by India House for this cause. With such support from Yalamanchili, India House raised $100,000. Consul general of India in Houston Anupam Ray supported the cause.
 
 Ian Grillot was invited as guest of honour at the annual India House Gala on March 25, in Houston. "Ian has given us an occasion to reaffirm a tie that binds us all as Americans, irrespective of where we come from. This also reminds us of the famous Shakespearean quote: For he that sheds his blood for me today is my brother," Agarwal said.
 
 Ian's response to the honour swept the audience off its feet. "I don't know if I could've lived with myself if I would not have stopped or attempted to stop the shooter because that would have been completely devastating. I do now have a very powerful message and if I can help empower people and spread hope and love, then why not? I am honored to be at India House that serves so many families from so many communities in the Houston area," he said. 
 
