PATNA: The students, teachers and staff of several educational institutions celebrated Holi on Friday, a couple of days in advance as schools and college will remain closed on Monday.

 Students of Usha Martin World School and   (CBSE) celebrated Holi with pomp and show. School principal Anita Singh asked the students to play Holi with natural colours and flowers. A cultural show was also organized where blooming buds of the primary and pre-primary sections sang songs, danced and sprinkled colours on each other. 
 
 International School director Farhat Hassan organized Holi Milan for the students and staff of the school.
 
 Students at Patna Women’s College and   enjoyed finger painting, hand and foot printing on different pictures. They also sprinkled colours on each other. The students were told about the precautionary measures to be taken while playing Holi. Students also danced on the tunes of Holi songs.
 
 Vinita Pandey, a first year student and hosteller of Patna Women’s College, said she enjoyed a lot with her friends and teachers. “I am going home and will celebrate the festival with my families, neighbours and friends,” she said.
 
 Students of St Xavier’s High School, Loyola High School, St Joseph’s Convent High School, Mt Carmel High School and   splashed water colours and abeer on each other. Some of them played Holi with water balloons and pichkaris as well. 
 
 Bhaskar Kumar, a Class X student of St Xavier’s High School, said, “Since our Board exams are going on, we have decided to assemble at some restaurant on Holi and discuss the main topics of our next paper which is on March 15. We will not play Holi with colours.”
 
 For Aditya Singh, a second year student of St Xavier’s College of Management Patna, Holi should be enjoyed with friends and families. He has arranged a bonfire night for his friends that day. “We will cook food in the night camp in my backyard. Most of my friends are hostellers. I invited them to celebrate this festival with my family,” he said.
 
 A Class XI student of Notre Dame Academy, Kanishka Singh said, “After celebrating Holi with my family, I will spend the day with underprivileged children who live near my home at the  . I also plan to take some gifts and abeer for them too. Later, I will watch some classic movies with my friends.”
 
