NEW DELHI: “Dissent is not treason. In fact, it’s the essence of democracy,” say over 100 military veterans in an open letter to PM   and state chief ministers, while strongly condemning the targeting of Muslims and Dalits by violent mobs in the name of  .

 Expressing concern over the “clampdown” on free speech and the all-pervasive “climate of fear, intimidation, hate and suspicion”, they said, “It saddens us to write this letter, but current events in India have compelled us to register our dismay at the divisiveness that is gripping our country.”
 
 “We can no longer look away. We would be doing a disservice to our country if we do not stand up and speak for the liberal and secular values that our Constitution espouses. Our diversity is our greatest strength,” they said, in the letter dated July 30.
 
 Signed by 114 veterans including Admiral L Ramdas, Lt General Y N Sharma, Maj-Generals Dipankar Banerjee, L Tahiliani and M P S Kandal, among others, the letter comes about a month after thousands of people hit the streets in different cities under the “Not in My Name” campaign to protest against the surge in mob violence by self-styled cow vigilantes.
 
 The veterans condemned the growing attacks on free speech around the country, with civil society groups, universities, scholars, journalists and the like being targeted “through a campaign of branding them anti-national and unleashing violence against them”.
 
 Though on Sunday the PM had himself urged citizens to fight communalism and corruption, the letter is bound to rattle the   which has a strong constituency among the armed forces and military veterans with its strong-onsecurity matters stance.
 
 The veterans said they “collectively” held no political affiliation but were writing it because of their “common commitment” to the Constitution. “The armed forces stand for ‘unity in diversity’. Differences in religion, language, caste, culture or any other marker of belonging have not mattered to the cohesion of the armed forces, and servicemen of different backgrounds have fought shoulder to shoulder in the defence of our nation,” said the letter.
 
 “We have spent our careers working for the security of our country... Our heritage is like the multi-coloured quilt that is India, and we cherish this vibrant diversity,” it added.
 
