Zumba took an interesting twist in Gurgaon this weekend as zumba trainer   joined hands with Canadian instructor   to conduct a fun-filled and literally 'cool' class of   at a swimming pool in the city.

 
 
 It's official, summer is here! With the sun blazing in the sky and raising the mercury in Gurgaon, the prospect of exercising – particularly something as vigorous as zumba – seems scary. But to beat that, zumba took an interesting twist in the city this weekend as zumba trainer Sucheta Pal joined hands with Canadian instructor   Gromley to conduct a fun-filled and literally 'cool' class of Aqua Zumba at a swimming pool in the city. The duo was joined by Delhi-based zumba trainer Prateek Kundial and dozens of enthusiastic folks from Gurgaon and Delhi, for most of whom it was the first experience of aqua zumba.
 
  
  AND WE TWIST: Richard Gromley leads the class
 
 
 
 '
 
 Richard, who is a specialist in aqua zumba, told us, "It's a little different from traditional zumba because water acts as resistance and you have to use that and modify your movements accordingly. I'm excited to bring it to a new city." The Canadian also found the vibe of Gurgaon more homely than foreign. He said, "It's a wonderful place. With the software company offices in the main city and the hills out here, it reminds me of California, one of my favourite places."
 
 
  
  Who's the best? Participants try different poses to create the best group photo in the pool (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  
  Selfie, please: Participants take a selfie at aqua zumba (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 The trainers first got the participants involved in ice-breaking games and sessions where groups of participants were challenged to create the perfect group photo in the pool. Following this, they conducted an energetic 40-minute aqua zumba session. The participants found this way of beating the heat quite fun. Shefali, a resident of Valley View Estate, who came to the class with her sister, told us, "With this heat, the only way one can do zumba is in the pool. Although I have done zumba before, doing it in water was a first for me and I thoroughly enjoyed it. I’m looking forward to participating in more such activities."
 
 
 
 Sucheta said, "Originally, Richard and I were to do a four-city tour and Gurgaon was not a part of the schedule. But we got so many requests from NCR that we just had to come here. The energy here is amazing," she said.
 
 
