Udhagamandalam: Ooty town, the much sought after tourist retreat, is raising a stink. Many open drains in the town are clogged and overflowing, including those in vulnerable areas such as nursing homes, schools, Charing Cross and, ironically, right in front of the PWD office. Complaints by local residents and hospital authorities to the municipality to close the drains have fallen on deaf ears.

 “Ooty is renowned the world over for its salubrious climate and natural beauty. But in reality, the open   system emits a foul odour and, worse, some areas in the town do not have a drainage system at all,” lamented L Kannan, a local resident. “It is a small town with 3.5 km radius. And the Ooty municipality is one of the oldest in the state. The authorities should have some concern for the hill retreat and the plight of the local residents.”
 
 Authorities of Parvathy Nursing Home on the Old Garden Road say several complaints to the municipality about the open drain in front of the hospital did not yield result. “We bring pregnant women and infants to the hospital. We have to cross the open drain, which is a health hazard,” said H Lakshmi, who visited the nursing home on Friday. Also, a few schools are located in that area. And the children have go along the open drains to school.
 
 “The stinking stretch of Garden Road in front of the PWD office is frequented by tourists on their way to the Government Botanical Garden. This leaves a bad impression about Ooty in the minds of the visitors,” said a government official pleading anonymity. “When the chief minister visited Ooty for inaugurating the annual flower show in May, the drain was closed overnight temporarily. The very next day, the situation was back to square one. The municipality cannot be this lethargic when it comes to civic issues,” said the official.
 
 Another eyesore is just in front of the Charing Cross signal where a couple of police personnel are always deputed. Overflowing drain water has been stagnating there for months. “During the rain in the past two weeks it was terrible. We couldn’t stand here regulating vehicles as the stench was unbearable,” said a police constable.
 
 Near the ATC bus stand and the main bus stand in the hill town where a large number of people converge, the situation is terrible, said a social activist.
 
 When contacted, Dr Murali Shankar, Ooty municipal health officer, told TOI: “All the places mentioned will be inspected soon and we will initiate proper action soon.”
 
 
