For the last six months, the   party had been preparing for the ensuing polls to wrest power from the BJP. Its campaign seems to lack aggression, but the state Congress president and former chief minister   asserts that people see Congress as the best alternative to the ruling dispensation. In an interview to TOI, Faleiro talks about the late declaration of candidates, alliance, failure to be aggressive and other issues.

 As the state party president, you had assured that candidates would be announced early this time. Why couldn’t it be done?
 
 Yes, indeed I had said that we shall be announcing the candidates early this time. And we were on course to announce them early too. The premise was that the current legislative assembly would come to an end by March, so the elections would be due maybe a month earlier and hence we could announce our candidates by first or second week of January. The Election Commision of India’s tight schedule made it look like we were delayed, when the fact of the matter is we were well in time except for a couple of seats. 
 
 Recommendations by Congress blocks were taken quite early but there was a long delay in finalizing the candidates. Many candidates complain that they didn’t get enough time to run their campaign.
 
 Is it? Do you really think so? Ever since I took over as GPCC President in October 2014, we have been preparing informally across all forty blocks. From public outreach to personal contact to door-to-door connect to so many melavas and chintan baithak and adhveshan, our party workers and leaders had already been mobilizing public opinion and campaigning for the Hand. It is because of this mass connect that each block was able to send so many strong and able aspirants’ names, which was unprecedented. So our candidates were already amongst the people much before we announced their names formally. Announcement of the candidate was the mere culmination of that exercise and endorsement of the people’s choice of candidate. 
 
 But, the Congress party had not been in an aggressive mode in the last one month against the BJP. 
 
 We are aggressive. We have been aggressive even now. Only now instead of just attacking or confronting the BJP, we have been following the other meaning of aggresion, which is behaving in a determined and forceful way. We have fielded 60% new faces and dared to defy history. We have formulated a bold, path-breaking, people centric and even activist centric Vision Document, instead of a mere manifesto. We listened to our blocks and are going it all alone with no coalition. We have dared to change. We have dared to be different listening to the people and our party workers. Isn’t that aggression? While attacking and confronting a U-turn government, a failing party and some new fly-by-night operators too is aggression, but for Congress it is beyond that. It is a party reborn and a party willing to change. Defying history itself is aggression. 
 
 Uncertainty over forging an alliance or understanding with other parties like NCP, Goa Forward, and United Goans,continued for long and created confusion among workers and supporters. People’s sentiments appeared to be in favour of an alliance to defeat the BJP. What went wrong on this front? 
 
 As far as coalition is concerned, I was as clear as all my fellow party workers since that eventful meeting of May 17, 2016, when a resounding 37 out of 40 blocks spoke against going into any kind of coalition. It is these blocks that make our leaders, our MLAs and not vice-versa. That is why when the blocks spoke against going into a coalition, I stood by them. But then some of our senior leaders, both locally and in the AICC, felt that probably we should consider a coalition as in the past. What was forgotten was that unlike the past this was a new, resurgent and assertive Congress that I had seen blossoming during my tenure. These were confident blocks full of energy, enthusiasm and confidence. The choice was between winning an election on crutches or winning an election on our own steam. The choice was between listening to seasoned political wisdom or collective grassroots wisdom and intellect - the party chose to follow the later. And when your party is democratic and dialogue-transparent, it does take time and that is what happened till we finally settled for what we had decided in the first place - fight the election on our own.
 
 On the ground, the Congress has failed to roar in the run-up to the polls and lately there had been allegations of ‘fixing’ with BJP leaders. What makes you confident that the Congress will win?
 
 We are simply doing what people wanted us to do for so long. We made a manifesto that was built purely on what people were agitating for and what they felt would make Goa better. We listened. Now the people will do the same because it is their candidate and their voice that shall be tested on February 4. I am confident that just like the Opinion Poll 50 years ago, the people of Goa shall show yet again why Congress is their only choice to run Goa.
 
 Will you be open to post-poll alliance with the likes of MGP or Goa Forward?
 
 Well, we shall cross the bridge when we come to it. For now, we are in it to win.
 
 
