The ongoing international documentary film festival at   is touted to be a first of its kind initiative in the region by the  . While the first day saw screening of five diverse Indian documentaries, here’s the lowdown for the remaining two days for the film enthusiasts who want to make the most of this international film festival dedicated to documentaries...

 
 
 Documentary filmmakers often struggle to find suitable audience for their cinema. Realising this predicament, the films division has joined hands with academic institutions in Vidarbha to screen some of the best international documentaries to widen the worldview of the students of the region through cinema. Director General of films division,  , says, “Documentary films are considered to be boring by the mainstream cinegoers and most of the multiplexes don’t screen such films. That’s why we have organised this festival, dedicated only to documentaries to let the audience explore this different medium. On February 25 and 26, we will screen a plethora of documentaries. We are also showcasing documentaries on various genres. Here, the students will get to see global vision under one roof.”
 
 
 
 Besides screening popular and award winning documentaries, the festival provides a platform for students and filmmakers from the region to learn the craft of filmmaking from award-winning filmmakers. Principal of  , Chandrapur, Dr Kirtiwardhan Dixit says, “We have invited   director Nagraj Manjule, filmmaker   and faculty members of FTII to conduct a workshop for the students on our college premises. More than 200 students from Vidarbha are participating. Also, we have planned a small interaction with filmmaker   with the students on Feb 25. During this interaction, Manjule will share some interesting anecdotes about his blockbuster Marathi film Sairat and how simple scripts can be transformed into cinematic wonders.”
 
 
 
 Students will be shown how films can be effective in conservation and protection of nature. Speaking on this, Desai adds, “We have organised a master class for the students to show them how documentaries can bring about awareness on key global issues, including the ongoing environment crisis and global warming. The students will also get to see documentaries made by Vidarbha filmmakers on the final day of the fest, which will be followed by a special screening of film Raja Harishchandra directed by Dadasaheb Phalke as a part of our workshop on the history of cinema.”
 
