PUNE: The city   have decided to initiate stringent legal action, including imposition of heavy fine or registration of offence, against the parents or guardian of minors caught driving a  .

 Deputy commissioner of police (traffic)   told TOI on Wednesday, “We will either fine the parents or will book them for   in  .“
 
 The decision comes close on the heels of Monday's accident in Sangvi, where an 18-year-old car driver mowed down a 15-year-old scooter rider. Both were driving their vehicles without a licence, while the scooter rider was also not wearing a helmet.
 
 The Motor Vehicle (MV) Act, 1988, prohibits a person below 18 from driving a vehicle. The only exception is in the case of a non-geared twowheeler of 50cc capacity , which can be driven by a person above age 16 years with a licence. Morale said, “An underage driver has limited knowledge of the vehicle as well as traffic. Such a driver's reactions are hyper and their decision-making capacity is limited. If anyone overtakes his vehicle, the minor tends to take it as challenge and indulges in rash diving. Letting minors drive a vehicle is not legal and parents should discourage such an act. Often, parents themselves tell their children to take the vehicle to run nearby errands.Instead, they should ask their children to use a bicycle.“
 
 Lawyer Rhishikesh Ganu, who specialises in MV Act cases, said, “Driving without a licence or an effective licence -that is, a person having a licence to drive a particular class of vehicle but is driving a vehicle of some other class -are most frequently seen offending and are needed to be tackled through stringent provisions, including the provision for immediate eligible compensation payable to the victim by the vehicle owner.“
 
 The lawyer added that as of now, underage drivers have no deterrence as most of their offences are bailable in nature.
 
 “Usually , they are not aware about the consequences of their act and do not realise the after-effects of a serious incident, such as death or crippling injury , on the family members,“ he said.
 
 Experts have added that strengthening the licence process and making well-designed theory classes mandatory for applicants could also deter violators.
 
