NEW DELHI: Within a fortnight of taking oath as Chief Justice of India, Justice   has reversed his predecessor Justice T S  's decision and revived the popular social justice bench which was set up in December 2014.

 The   had issued a notification setting up the bench when Justice   was CJI. It had said, “In the Supreme Court, several cases relating to the domain of `social justice' are pending for several years.The CJI is of the view that these cases shall be given a specialised approach for their early disposal so the masses will realise the fruits of the rights provided to them under the Constitution.“
 
 The notification had enumerated the issues pending before SC for years -“release of surplus food grains...for use of people living in drought affected areas; to frame a fresh scheme for public distribution of food grains; to take steps to prevent untimely death of women and children for want of nutritious food; providing hygienic midday meal besides issues relating to child ren; to provide night shelter to destitute and homeless; to provide medical facilities to all citizens irrespective of economic condition; to provide hygienic drinking water and to provide... secured living conditions for women forced into prostitution“.
 
 The bench then comprised Justice Madan B Lokur and Justice U U Lalit, and used to sit once a week for two hours to expeditiously decide important issues re lating to a large section of the deprived and discriminated population. But within months of succeeding Justice   as CJI, Justice Thakur gave a quiet burial to the bench in March 2016 by disbanding it.
 
 The revived bench will now deal with petitions related to social justice almost on a daily basis.
 
 The special bench was hearing matters relating to lackadaisical approach of governments and police in stopping human trafficking, tracing missing children, providing hygienic midday meals, welfare of construction workers, rehabilitation of acid attack victims and protecting women's dignity by reining in lumpen elements who circulated pornographic material. One of the achievements of the bench was to provide an institutionalised mechanism for rehabilitation of victims of acid attacks and forcing the Centre and states to draw up a strict regime for over the counter sale of the corrosive substance.
 
 It also forced states to make better utilisation of the Rs 20,000 crore collected through 2% cess on cost of construction from builders to be used for welfare measures for workers and their children's education.
 
 Due to the pressure exerted on the government for equitable distribution of the 2% construction cess, the Centre has now framed a scheme for registration of all construction workers under the Employees Provident Fund office. 
 
