PATNA: Shops selling state’s traditional artworks at   tent city are finding many takers. With thousands of people making a beeline for Gandhi Maidan with their friends and families to celebrate the 350th birth anniversary of tenth Sikh Guru Gobind Singh, it’s business time for artisans as well.

 The makeshift shops set up by the industries department to promote state’s arts and crafts are drawing large number of customers. Handwoven and designer sarees are selling like hot cakes at these shops. “I have sold sarees worth Rs 15,000 in two days,” said a shopkeeper. The   has come as a blessing for people dealing in traditional arts and crafts of the state.
 
 “On Sunday, which was also the New Year Day, over 30,000 people, mostly women, visited our shops,” said Md  , a stall owner. The price range of products varies from Rs 100 to Rs 8,000. 
 
 “I sold many Kaimur sarees on the second day of the exhibition,” said Mala Gupta, a member of  . “This is one of the largest events that we have ever seen the city. The Prakashotsava has brought a variety of customers to the city,” Gupta added.
 
 Vibha Srivastava, who was selling her bamboo products, said the response was very encouraging from the visitors. “The best part is that we don’t have to pay rent for putting up stall here,” she added.
 
 “Women have booked various items at the shops by paying token money as they were not expecting such sale counters at Gandhi Maidan. Salwar suits and handicrafts are finding many takers. Our target is to touch the figure of Rs 50,000 as far as sales are concerned,” said Sanju Singh, a woman entrepreneur. “There is huge demand for handkerchief as pilgrims buy it before entering the makeshift gurdwara,” she added. 
 
 Sushila Devi, who had received state award for her innovative artworks in 2011, said Tikuli art, Madhubani painting and Sikki art are also praised by the visitors. “I have already sold products worth over Rs 35,000,” she added.
 
 Manju Devi, who specialises in Sikki art, said the price range Sikki art items varies from Rs 50 to Rs 1,500.
 
 Tajinder Singh, a resident of Punjab, who was here to participate in Prakashotsava, said, “I purchased a jute bag and a wooden motif of Guru Gobind Singh. The products are very exquisite and unique. I will share my wonderful experience in Bihar with people in Punjab after returning home.” 
 
