A team of 10 students from different institutes of   (SIU) took part in the World’s First  , and intellectual Olympics for change makers held recently at the College of Engineering, Pune. 

  Tenzin Rabgay from Bhutan, a MBA student of Symbiosis Institute of Business Management, Pune was awarded the Mr. Innovation World Award. He led the International Students’ Team from Symbiosis. The team received awards in Best Entrepreneurial Strategies, Best Entrepreneurial Leader, Best in Inventiveness, and Great INNOMPICs Team. 
 
  In addition, Jjunju Ibraham from Uganda, another student of Symbiosis Institute of Health Sciences received the Most Inspiring Actor Award.
 
  INNOMPICS is a platform for participants from all around the world to engage in developing creative and innovation solutions to world’s challenges through intellectual games aimed at creating a planet of loving creators, and promote innovation. It was jointly organised by Science and Technology Park (STP) Pune, Indian Science and Technology Entrepreneurs Park and Business Incubator Association (ISBA), and the INNOMPICs World. 
 
 
  
 
  Teams from Russia, India, Malaysia, and Pune based International Students’ Team from Symbiosis International University participated. The participants were  ,   founders, artist, innovators, and students. The Juries comprised of Venture Capitalist, Entrepreneurs, Incubator, and Professors. The INNOMPICS 2018 will be held in Kaula Lampur, Malaysia. 
 
  Tenzin Rabgay (MBA, SIBM Pune) says, “I am humbled and delighted for having received the Innovation World Award during the 1st INNOMPICs. INNOMPICs gave me an insightful experience of engaging on creative problem solving, working with a team composed of members from diverse culture, and engaging in constructive competition. I take the award conferred on me not as a reward for my achievements but as motivation to work towards addressing challenges in my community and beyond. In doing so, I am sure that the friendship, mentorship, and network I developed during INNOMPICs will be of enormous guidance and support.”
 
 
