HYDERABAD: Police were forced to crack down after a hospital at Lakdikapul was vandalized on Thursday by angry parents and relatives of a 16-year-old boy, who claimed doctors were continuing to treat their dead child to inflate bills. 

 On March 27, M Suresh, a class 8 student from  , was admitted to  , Lakdikapul, with complaints of pain in the head and puss oozing from ear, said   police.
 
 Hospital authorities conducted a surgery on Suresh. On Wednesday night, family members claimed Suresh had actually died, but was put on ventilator to make-believe he was breathing. However, hospital authorities denied allegations and told family members that Suresh was still alive and his pulse could be felt and it was visible on monitor.
 
 On Thursday, family members forcibly tried to move Suresh out of the hospital, but authorities said he cannot be discharged without a ventilator. 
 
 Suresh's kin removed the ventilator, pushed the hospital staff aside and took the body away.
 
 At ground floor, they went on rampage and damaged flower pots and smashed glass at the reception desk. There were at least 50 family members in the mob. They also demanded that the hospital refund money paid for treatment. Police rushed to the hospital and brought the situation under control.
 
 "Based on a complaint lodged by Lotus Hospital authorities, a case was registered under sections 147 (rioting), 323 (assault) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and investigation was on. Before he was admitted to Lotus, the boy was treated at another private hospital," said Saifabad sub-inspector S Ravi Kumar. 
 
 Meanwhile, hospital authorities refuted allegations of family members. "His condition was serious when he was wheeled in. Even after three days of treatment, there was no improvement. We found him brain dead and informed the family. We did not even demand money for the surgery," Lotus hospital superintendent Dr Sarangi told TOI. 
 
 Suresh's family members, however, said hospital authorities had cheated them by inflating the hospital bill. "Though he died, they told us he was brain dead. They even demanded Rs 10 lakh for the brain surgery," said Venkanna, uncle of Suresh.
 
 
