HUBBALLI: People of the Maratha community have been hitting the streets across the state in the past few months, organizing massive rallies in each district to press for their demands.

 Their protests are gaining momentum with every passing day, with lakhs of people from Maharashtra also joining hands with Marathas in the state. Their rallies have caught the attention of those at the helm of power.
 
 Their protests are different: No sloganeering or creating chaos on the streets, but in silence, on the lines of Mahatma Gandhi’s principles. There is no leader -- each person of the community takes equal responsibility to make the protests successful to open the eyes of the government towards their problems.
 
 The community has already organized massive rallies in Bidar, Dharwad and Vijayapura in the past 3-4 months and is planning to organize similar ones in Karwar, Belagavi, Davanagere and other parts of Karnataka.
 
 They are now worried about the future of their children and economic condition. The Maratha community comes under 3B category and has to fight with other upper castes to get government jobs and other facilities. The present reservation under 3B category is said to have denied many students of the community higher education and jobs in the government sector.
 
 Their main demand is to pressure the government to include the community under OBC 2A category to enjoy reservation facilities in higher education, jobs and to avail of government schemes.
 
 JOINING HANDS ACROSS BORDERS
 
 Thousands of Marathas from Solapur, Sangli, Kolhapur and other parts of Maharashtra are joining hands with the Marathas of Karnataka to bring pressure on the government to meet their demands. Nearly 1 lakh people participated in a big rally held in Vijayapura on Monday. Protests in Bidar and Dharwad also saw thousands of people rallying in the past three months.
 
 Deepak Dalavi, convener of Sakal Kranti Morcha, Belagavi, told TOI: “Our community has been deprived of many basic facilities, including educational and financial assistance from the government, since we come under the 3B category. Our children are not getting admission in good medical, engineering and PU colleges or landing government jobs though they are intelligent and score well. This is due to non-availability of reservation on par with SC/STs and OBCs.” Most of the people of the community are farmers and marginal farmers, and even do some odd jobs to eke out their livelihood in the absence of government facilities. “Our protest is getting support from Marathas in other states and abroad,” he said.
 
 Subhas Shinde, Maratha community leader and  , said whatever is happening with Marathas in Karnataka is bad. “We have to compete with upper castes like Brahmans, Lingayats to get government jobs or education under 3B category, which is almost the general category. We are minorities in terms of strength, so we must be treated as backward classes and get reservation under 2A category so as to uplift our community socially and economically,” Shinde said. 
 
 STUDENTS STOP HIGHER EDUCATION
 
 In 2006, the Backward Classes Commission headed by N Shankrappa recommended to the government to allot 2A reservation to Marathas, but the government hasn’t taken any step to implement it. “As we have to fight with other upper castes, many of our students either stop pursuing higher education or work as security guards, peons or clerks in the government. Though many Marathas serve in the Army, the community is neglected. We have to spend lakhs of rupees to get management seats for our children in the absence of reservation. If 2A is given, it will uplift our community,” he said.
 
 Shivani Pawar, another activist from Vijayapura, said, “Maratha is not restricted to any caste. Though our community students get above 95% marks in examinations, we don’t get government or other suitable jobs. The government must include our community in the 2A category.”
 
 Their other demands include: Establish hostels for the community under the name of   in each taluk; declare Maratha community as a linguistic minority, make February 19, which is Shivaji Maharaj Jayanti, a government holiday; set up Maratha Development Corporation; establish   at Vijayapura; start Jeejamata Study bench at Karnataka State Women’s University, Vijayapura; release a special grant for Maratha community organizations; compensation for drought-affected farmers of the state; develop the samadhi of Shahji Maharaj at Hodigere village in Channagiri taluk of Davanagere district as a national monument.
 
