NEW DELHI: Delhi health minister   inaugurated 125 ventilators to be used in Lok Nayak, G B Pant, Deen Dayal Upadhyay and other big state-run hospitals on Friday, nearly three months after TOI reported about the lack of these machines and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal took note of it. 

  The function was held at the emergency block of  . A makeshift stage was erected in front of the block and a red carpet was rolled out from the entry gate to the dais while loudspeakers relayed music before the health minister arrived around 11.30 am. 
 
 Jain first went to the neurosurgery ward on the fifth floor of the emergency block where some of the new ventilators have been installed. Several senior doctors, health officials and media personnel accompanied him.
 
  A ventilator is a machine used to move breathable air in and out of the lungs of a patient who is physically unable to breathe or is breathing insufficiently. Due to their shortage in Lok Nayak and other hospitals, many critically ill patients had been put on ambu bags - a manual, handheld resuscitation device that has to be pressed continuously to move air into and out of lungs of a patient who cannot breathe on his or her own - earlier which was highlighted by TOI in December last year. 
 
  The health minister went to different ICUs to inspect the new ventilators. His round ended around 12 noon. After this, nearly an hour-long function was held where the minister, health secretary, local MLA, who heads Lok Nayak's Rogi Kalyan Samiti, and the medical superintendent spoke for nearly an hour.
 
  "Till last year, our hospitals saw three crore people in OPDs. This number has gone up to four crore now. The number of admissions has also gone up," Jain said, addressing the crowd. He talked about the good work being done at mohalla clinics and polyclinics. 
 
 "Our government has made MRI, CT scan and PET CT totally free. Any citizen can go to a private diagnostic centre or hospital and get the test done. We will pay for it," Jain said to a round of applause. 
 
  He said this facility won't be extended to patients from other states due to financial issues. "My friend from Haryana was complaining. I told him elect us in your state and we will do the same there too. If Aam Aadmi Party comes to power at the Centre, the entire country will have such facilities," the health minister said. 
 
  With elections to the three municipal corporations expected soon, the AAP government is aggressively publicizing its work in Delhi. On Friday, the health minister said the state government has decided to pay for treatment of all road accident victims at private hospitals. "This provision will be applicable to everyone, including those from other states, who meet with an accident in Delhi," he said.
 
  Some doctors objected to the function being held on the premises. "How can the hospital administration allow the minister to hold a function outside the emergency block? This spot, where a makeshift stage has been erected for the function, is reserved for ambulances," said a doctor. 
 
  About the use of loudspeakers, Dr J C Passey, medical director of Lok Nayak, told TOI that these were used because it was only an hour-long meeting. "No services were affected," he said. Dr Passey said the space outside the emergency block was chosen as a venue because the equipment being inaugurated were related to it. Satyendar Jain could not be reached for comment despite many calls. 
 
