KOLKATA: The Indian Institute of Technology , Kharagpur, is creating a new centre of excellence that will research on impacts of climate change in the region. Supported by the department of science and technology , the   will begin functioning from next month and take in 30-35 PhD research scholars to work on various projects that look into the impact of climate change on land, rivers, ocean and atmosphere.

 “Climate change is the biggest challenge facing the world. Climate scientists believe Kolkata and rest of south Bengal are particularly vulnerable to climate change. Extreme events like cloudburst and cyclone are on the rise. It is therefore critical that the impacts be predicted so that we are better able to deal with different scenarios that may arise out of cliamte change,“ IIT-Kgp director   told TOI on Tuesday .
 
 Prasad Bhaskaran, profes sor and head of the department of Ocean Engineering & Naval Architecture at IIT-Kgp who will be the principal coordinator of the centre of excellence that is being set up with a corpus of Rs 10 crore, said the research scholars will look at river ecosystems, ocean acidification, food security and sustainability , thunderstorm acti vities, coastal processes and extreme water level.
 
 “The changing climate is altering the vulnerability of coast and hinterland. The intensity and size of tropical cyclones have changed in the past decade. From 1990 onwards till the early 2000, the average radius of a typical cyclone was 130km. So, when it ma de landfall, around 260km of the shoreline and coastal areas were exposed to the risk. But now, the average radius of cyclones in recent years like Hudhud, Phailin, Aila and Thane has increased to 240km.Hence, the risk area along the coast has gone up to 480km.This means twice the number of people require to be evacua ted in case of a cyclone warning,“ Bhaskaran explained.
 
 He also pointed out climate change had increased oceanwave activity . “In southern oceans, synoptic or cyclonic scale activity has increased in the past decade. These activities can generate long waves that can reach the Bengal and Odisha coast as well as Bangladesh. These long waves can modify local waves generated by wind and affect the pattern of erosion. Sunderbans is already experiencing the effect of long waves. In the Head Bay region bordering India and  , the wave activity is increasing on the eastern side while it is decreasing on the western side. This is altering sedimentary dymanics and causing changes in the shore line. All these aspects will be researched at the centre,“ said Bhaskaran.
 
 The aim of various research activities undertaken by the centre of excellence will be to predict various climate change scenarios as well as mitigation and adaptation possibilities in Bengal and Odisha.
 
