BHARTHANA JASWANTNAGAR (ETAWAH): A bullish   (61) took the battle to arch rival 77-year-old  's home district Etawah, holding a rousing rally in Bharthana that is less than 40km from Jaswantnagar, where the SP patriarch campaigned on a sentimental note for party nominee, his brother Shivpal, for the second time within 48 hours. MSY is yet to campaign for the SP-Cong alliance that he was reportedly dead against.

 If BSP chief Mayawati ratcheted up the Yadav-vs-Yadav narrative talking of the deep wedge in the ruling SP, Mulayam Singh - recently replaced by son Akhilesh as party president - struck a delicate balance saying “my son Akhilesh is quite stubborn. At times he persists, and at times I“.
 
 Mayawati told the crowd the Yadav vote bank was hopelessly divided between the warring camps of CM   and uncle Shivpal. “Ye dono ek doosre ko harayenge aur isliye ye SP-Congress ka gathbandhan bhi gaya kaam se (The two camps will ensure each other's defeat, the SP-Congress alliance won't work),“ she said in Bakewa block, Bharthana.
 
 In Jaswantnagar, barely a 45-minute drive away from where Mayawati canvassed, MSY sought votes for brother Shivpal. Mulayam made the gathering laugh with his fatherly take on the bitter family feud that played out weeks ago and is expected to impact voting. 
 
 He made sure the crowd realise that he was still very much around. “At times he persists and makes me do things, but then many times I persist and make him do things“.
 
 Mulayam glowingly spoke of his brother saying “whatever he is today is because of Jaswantnagar“. “It's always been a SP stronghold. I started my political career here. People here always voted for me, made me a big leader.“
 
 He ruminated, “I became defence minister. I'd even have become Prime Minister 10 years ago, but certain people spoiled my chances. That too is okay...Jo hota hai, accha hota hai (everything happens for the good).“ The clincher: “The way you secured my win from Jaswantnagar, I expect the same for my brother Shivpal. Ensure his win by a record margin.“
 
 Mayawati, meanwhile, promised she would continue to develop SP pocket borough Etawah if she wins.Incidentally, many development projects undertaken by the MSY government in Etawah were dumped by Mayawati when her party swept to power in the 2007 assembly election.
 
