CHENNAI: The corporate world is all cheer about   and  , but the stark reality is this - as things stand, women don't stand a chance of equalling men when it comes to pay till 2168, 151 years from now. India ranks second (after Japan) when it comes to   with men earning 67% more than women, a global survey has said.

 The gap can shrink to 57% by 2030, the report says. A flicker of hope is that the divide can be bridged by 2066, 50 years from now, in developing markets like India, should women embrace technology and adopt career focussed strategies.
 
 The findings of the report show that gender pay gap remains an issue across the globe. Men earn an average $140 for every $100 earned by women. In India, the gap is wider with men earning $167 for every $100 earned by women. In India, almost 80% of this gap is attributed to the lack of women's participation in the workforce with 93% of men versus 31% women in paid employment. Other factors like lesser working hours, working in a lower paying industry and lack of tertiary education play a small role. A major reason that creates a pay gap in employment is cultural and social issues, according to Accenture's Getting to Equal 2017 report. The global study conducted by consulting firm Accenture covers over 30 industries, analysing average pay gap across levels and roles.
 
 Accenture has identified three equalisers which will help women bridge the gap -digital fluency, career strategy and tech immersion. "By implementing these strategies, we could add 2.2 crore women to the working population, and $39 billion to the Indian economy by 2030," said Joydeep Mukherjee, human capital and diversity lead,  . A doption of digital technologies can offer flexibility and open up career options for women. The report suggests that women also need to work on proactively managing their careers. "Women need guidance from stakeholders including their family on aiming high and making informed choices. Many women do not explicitly demand a raise. They need to be coached and mentored speak up," added Mukherjee.
 
