HYDERABAD: Heli-hopping agriculture minister   is a man on a mission. While various ministers of the state have sparingly used the helicopter for their official work, Srinivas Reddy has been literally living out of the chopper for the last four days. His brief, as given to him by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, is: Address the farmers' coordination committees and educate them on how the TRS government intends to make `the farmer a king.' However, while flying around at the taxpayers' expense, Pocharam is busy lambasting the opposition  ,   and  , blaming them for creating hurdles to various government schemes aimed at welfare of the farmers.On the first day of his tour on Sunday, he covered Nizamabad, Kamareddy , Nirmal, Karimnagar and Jagitial. On Wednesday , he traversed Sircilla, Siddipet, Suryapet, Nakrekal and Bhongir. In Sircilla, he shared the dais with IT minister K T Rama Rao. His tour will end on Thursday .

 Srinivas Reddy's tight schedule on Tuesday included a trip to Dichipalli, Asifabad, Kotapally mandal in Mancherial district, Sultanabad mandal in Peddapally district, and Jammikunta mandal in Karimnagar and Hanamkonda.“Busy schedule,“ the minister's post said on FB on Tuesday with a picture of him with Peddapalle MP Balka Suman having lunch in the helicopter.
 
 The heli-hopping minister's task, as it appears, is not just to talk about the initiatives taken by the government for farmers' welfare. The political motive is clear from the opposition-bashing at every given opportunity .
 
 “Right from Prime Minister Modi to local leaders, all of them claim to have come from agricultural families. If this is true, why is the situation of farmers horrible? Congress leaders are resorting to agitations for no reason. If any previous government had worked as hard as chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, there would have been no  ," he said at a meeting on Wednesday .
 
 The CM also uses the helicopter especially when he goes to address public meetings.
 
 
 
 
 Alleging that the farmers coordination committees are being formed by the state government for political rehabilitation of TRS party workers, BJP president K Laxman demanded the government to withdraw GO 39 issued by the government for committees.
 
 Laxman on Wednesday said the state government's move would take away the powers of sarpanches. He said the state government had allocated Rs 500 crore for coordination committees and wanted to know how the government would spend the amount.
 
 
