NEW DELHI: The much awaited   ( ) media rights will be up for grabs after the 10th season of the richest T20 league gets over in May. According to   sources, the Committee of Administrators (COA) would revisit the tender documents and even suggest changes if need be, before floating tenders for the 2018 season onwards.

 The exact time frame wasn't revealed because the COA along with BCCI CEO   will jointly take a call when time comes. However, they don't seem to be in a hurry like the previous BCCI bosses. Earlier, the BCCI had claimed to have invested a lot of time and money in framing the tender norms to ensure the highest levels of transparency. But the board was forced to delay the process following intervention from the  , as most of the office-bearers were not eligible to do the tender process.
 
 "The former BCCI bosses were in terrible hurry to do the IPL deal, which was rightly stopped by the Lodha Committee as the office-bearers weren't eligible to do so. But the current working style of BCCI is to do everything without rushing. It's after all the most important process for BCCI," a source explained to TOI on Saturday.
 
 It is expected that the new IPL season rights that were to be awarded would bring in huge revenue for cricket and expectations amongst the BCCI, players and the cricket loving public ran high in the build up to the award of the IPL tender. Sources also insisted that   won't affect the valuation of the IPL property. Even the last October cancellation of the tender process will not impact the value of the product.
 
 On paper, the formula is simple for BCCI. The board made approximately Rs 6,700 from IPL media rights in the last 10 years. But the current deal could be of astronomical value. It could be between Rs 18,000 to Rs 30,000 crore or even more. 
 
 Earlier, BCCI had packed Indian sub-continent television rights from 2018 to 2027 while the digital rights was for five years (2018 to 2022) with a five-minute delay after TV transmission. If there is a common player buying both the rights, the five-minute delay would have been waived off. The rights offered for rest of the world would be also be for five years and sold on a different package. It would be interesting to see how the COA will frame the tender documents.
 
