KOZHIKODE:   (NSS) Technical Cell Kerala in the government hospitals have helped to repair the unused and damaged   equipment that were gathered dust on the corners of the hospital buildings in the district owing to fund crunch. The camps have helped many hospitals to carry out repair works of healthcare equipment at free of cost. In Kozhikode district, volunteers of   had recreated the hospital assets to the tune of more than Rs 3 crore so far.

 The annual camps were conducted as part of the state level project Punarjani- an initiative of the directorate of Technical Education and the NSS Technical cell which was launched in 2013. This year, the NSS technical cell had conducted residential camps at  , government dental college and Government Beach general hospital and recreated assets worth more than Rs 1 crore.
 
 The volunteers had conducted the repair works of damaged cots, surgical equipment, X-ray machineries, electrical and plumbing works and painting to the tune of Rs 77.21 lakh at the Beach General hospital and another Rs 97 lakh at the Kozhikode medical college hospital.
 
 According to the district NSS Technical cell, Kozhikode has sixteen units of NSS technical cell. A total of 1600 NSS volunteers have been rendering free expertise in the technical field under the Punarjani scheme.
 
  superintendent Dr A Sabu said the camp has helped to repair the damaged hospital equipment at free of cost. `` We are also planning to hold another three day camp of NSS technical cell volunteers during republic day period,’’ he said.
 
 Meanwhile, T S Sharathchandra Babu, district programme officer NSS Technical Cell Kerala said under the project, the NSS has succeeded in recreating hospital assets worth more than Rs 3 crore within three years of project launch in Kozhikode alone. `` NSS technical cell volunteers rendered their services at 34 hospitals in the state and helped to recreate hospital assets worth Rs 12 crore after the launch of the project in 2013,’’ he said. `` 
 
 In the initial stage, hospital authorities had always doubted the capability of the volunteers doing repair work. But, seeing their work, the hospital authorities had extended their full cooperation to them,’’ he said.
 
