Mumbai:  , one of the largest players in payments and retail lending space, has come up with innovations to grow the same businesses in the digital world. The bank is now integrating  , such as  ,   and  , into the 4.2 lakh   and it is using its technology backbone to provide instant   to online shoppers.

 The bank will tie up with online merchants and provide loans to those who are either shopping online or browsing. The bank has developed the ability to provide instant loans even to non-customers of the bank by using technology. The bank’s software enables it instantly appraise a prospect by pulling down social and credit scores through application programming interfaces (APIs). It simultaneously does deep analytics to de-duplicate and instantly approves loans from Rs 50,000 to Rs 5 lakh.
 
 Sources said that the bank, which began retail automated loans with internal customers, has now built on the capability. The same capability can be used for giving online instant lines of credit backed with physical cards depending on whether the customer needs.
 
 On the payment side, the bank is following a different tack as compared to other lenders. instead of pushing mobile-based applications for shopkeepers, the bank is rejigging its point of sales (PoS) terminals so that all digital payments — UPI, Aadhaar-based payments, Bharat QR, credit and debit cards and the bank’s own PayZapp wallet payments — can be made possible. 
 
 The bank has over 4.22 lakh card swipe machines and all of these would eventually be upgraded to enable multichannel payments. In addition to this, the bank plans to deploy QR code placards with merchants who do not want a point of sales terminal.
 
 The bank’s objective is to convert the point of sales machine, which can be operated even by a semi-literate employee, into the pivot for all retail payments While HDFC Bank is the market leader in the credit card space in numbers, transactions and volume it is number two on debit cards. The bank’s debit cards see the highest usage among all Indian banks with average monthly transactions of 1.4 a month. 
 
 
