
I’m good. Life is good. But I cannot say that I am content because, as an artiste, I can never be that. There are a few things to look forward to. My parents are moving in with me. Often, this is the time and age when children leave their parents’ home. In my case, I’ve been a hosteller all my life and now it’s time for me to “move in” with my parents.
 
 
 
 Well, yes… Most of the times, you feel betrayed because you think the world is out there to get you. It isn’t. Most of our betrayals are self-created. You could be less affected by people, and just move on. 
 
 
 
 One has to have at least two passions if not more so that you can oscillate between those and always be busy. Even if you feel circumstantially let down by one, you can always turn to the other with vigour. 
 
 
 
 Any break-up is difficult, especially if you have given it your all. But I don’t like thinking about what could have been, and that has helped me to discover myself in the process. 
 
 
 
 I used to be. But now, I have decided to let go and indulge in food and all the good things in life that I had missed out on. There is a famous saying, ‘It’s okay to let yourself go as long as you can get yourself back’. I am living by this.
 
 
 
 I am a typical Haryanvi in that matter – just bring out the makhan (butter), paratha, halwa and beer and I am sorted. 
 
 
 
 See, I expect a lot out of myself unfortunately. And that shouldn’t be the case. This leads to expectations from other co-stars to work with the same kind of passion or sincerity. Conflicts are bound to happen in some setups. But if you ask me, I think I am a director’s delight and a wonderful co-star. 
 
 
 
 Can you believe it? I have never holidayed in my life – because I think my entire life is a holiday. I have this argument to give to people – what are you holidaying from? Your life is an adventure in itself, isn’t it? But during shoots, I prefer to take that off-the-beaten-path. Highway was a great holiday for me. The character was the most depressing one I have played till date, but the journey was worth remembering.
 
 
 
 No way. I may have a lot of clothes, but I still get accused of wearing the same clothes on consecutive days! The only thing I splurge on are horse equipment. 
 
 
 
 I am quite vocal about my thoughts and opinions. That’s because I speak from the heart. I know where I am coming from and I speak with conviction. 
 
 
 
 I can cook to survive but don’t expect anything more. I can make daal. Sometimes, it doesn’t turn out the way I had imagined but I can tell you the recipe for the perfect daal – add ketchup! Apart from lentils, I can make a decent egg curry (can’t go wrong with eggs). 
 
 
 
 My past experiences have taught me that the only meaningful relationship you can have, or the relationship that can last a lifetime, is with yourself. I have come to understand that the only thing that makes a relationship work for a lifetime is respect. 
 
 
 
 I have no absolutes. Why does one need to find love in the first place? We are in a different world. It’s the Donald-isation era! ‘Love’ as a topic is going through a lot of change. 
 
 
