CHENNAI: There is ample space for a new political party to emerge as existing political parties are familyowned enterprises and have shut their doors to the new generation of aspiring leaders, said former Union finance minister  's son   speaking at a forum called Generation 67 (G67). The meeting was organised to commemorate 50 years of Dravidian rule in Tamil Nadu.

 “Most of the regional and national parties, including  , have become private family properties and are beyond redemption.Thus, a newcomer who is interested in joining politics will not fit into any of these parties as he would have to praise the head or other leaders in the party,“ said Karti. Karti's G67 shot into limelight in April 2015 when he organized a meeting to take on then   chief E V K S Elangovan. Elangovan promptly slapped a show cause notice on him for “anti-party activity and groupism“. The action against Karti was later withdrawn Blaming all political parties for favouring only family members of their leaders, Karti said, “Has any political party invited people like Google CEO Sundar Pichai or an IIT topper to contest in elections? Whether it is Congress, BJP, DMK, AIADMK or any other political party in the North, all are family-controlled and an outsider has no chance“.
 
 Stating that G67 is neither a forum nor a political party in the making, he said when Donald Trump can become President of US within a short period, anything can happen in Tamil Nadu too. “Did anyone predict that   will die, the next in command (O Panneerselvam) will be expelled from party and the powerful woman in the party (V K Sasikala) will end up in prison?
 Thus anything will happen and I cannot predict as to what will happen to G67,“ said Karti.
 
 “After the Marina protests it is Neduvasal against extraction of hydrocarbon. In both these protests, people did not believe political parties to put forward their demands. It was their mobile phones which made people assemble at the designated place and political parties tried to tag on with their protests. This is the likely future in Tamil Nadu,“ said Karti.
 
 “When parties are campaigning for elections, there has to be a counter campaign.We need a platform like G67 to raise people's issues,“ said Karti. “On March 6, 1967 the chief minister who took charge was called   (C N Annadurai). But, the current chief minister is known by his native place. The 1967 cabinet had many stalwarts who used to oppose Anna and discuss issues. Who is there now?“
 
