SRINAGAR:   terrorist  , killed in an encounter with security forces at Tral in south Kashmir's   district on Saturday, was a school dropout drug addict before he took to terror.

 A native of Rathsuna village in Tral, 28-year-old   was a close friend of Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist Burhan Wani, killed in an encounter last year, and had joined the terrorist outfit at his behest. Police said Sabzar was involved in attacks on panchayat members and security forces. He was responsible for killing civilians after branding them “police informers“. Born in a poor family, Sabzar failed his Class X exams and dropped out of school. He was a known drug addict in Tral, and involved in drug peddling, thefts, robbery and kidnapping cases, too.
 
 Sabzar found entry into the militant outfit when he snatched a weapon from a CRPF soldier at Tral in April 2015 after Wani's brother Khalid was killed by security forces in the town's Kamla forests.
 
 He was named its new commander after   alias Musa quit Hizbul Mujahideen following his threat this month to “behead Hurriyat leaders for calling the Kashmir struggle a political and not an Islamic movement“, police said. Sabzar received training in the use of arms in the Tral forests and never crossed over to Pakistan.
 
 Police maintain that local terrorists remain active in Tral because of the advantage provided by the cover of its dense forests. The forests also provide the terrorists a good training ground.
 
 In December 2015, police announced a cash reward for a group of terrorists, including Sabzar. The other Hizbul terrorists who have considerable influence in the region are Zakir Musa and Saddam Padder.
 
 Musa was portrayed as the new face of militancy in the Kashmir Valley after Wani's killing. But when Musa revolted against Hizbul after the militant outfit's leadership dissociated itself from his statements, Sabzar won the confidence of the outfit's brass in POK.
 
 Sabzar had given security forces the slip on several occasions in the past. He escaped an encounter site in Tral recently, taking the cover of the darkness and heavy stone-pelting in the area.
 
 Police said Sabzar was responsible for the recruitment of youth in Hizbul, and unlike Wani, mostly remained underground and avoided using social networking sites to issue diktats. Sabzar had only once posted his photos and videos along with Wani's that went viral on social networking sites before Wani's death in 2016.
 
 
 
 
