PANAJI: The   government has decided to conduct a 3-month drive to clear backlog of around 9,000   cases in various mamlatdars’ courts. It will also ensure easy and timely availability of residence, caste, income and partition certificates to the public.

 Revenue minister Rohan   told reporters on Friday that the department is striving hard to make “living easy for Goans”. He said the mutation process will be simplified and fees will be accepted at the time of registration of the sale deeds. This apart, state employees will work on Saturdays to clear the pending cases, he added.
 
 One of the state’s many initiatives include launching of an email ID, saang.goenkar@gov.in, wherein people can register their grievances.
 
 The same will be personally monitored by the revenue minister, besides the revenue secretary and district collectors.
 
 “We will ensure time-bound delivery of services. State employees will get two months’ time to adapt to the new initiative and the accountability will be fixed on the officer in-charge,’’ he said.
 
 “In a first of its kind initiative, all the revenue department offices will be rebranded. Each office will have a public grievance box wherein people can put their written complaints. The drop box will be attended to on a fortnightly basis,” Khaunte said.
 
 Moreover, stickers will be pasted on the walls at revenue department offices besides collectorates creating awareness against corruption. “CCTV cameras would be installed in all offices and centrally monitored,’’ he said.
 
 The government also plans to launch a district e-portal service, in the fourth week of April, so that people can avail revenue department’s services online. It will be linked to Aadhaar, which will facilitate easy data and reduce paper work. The department will also launch backpack kits for village-level services on a pilot basis in two talukas. Through this project, people can avail revenue department services in their village.
 
 A happy quotient measuring the satisfaction levels of citizens accessing services in revenue department offices will be put in place through a smiley interface, he said, adding, “Though the new measures will be launched immediately, it will take next three months to streamline the services.’’
 
