Aiming to make new combination   for patients with   or   B & C available to them at the earliest, the government has decided to waive some regulatory processes to fast track approvals.

 In a new order, the country's top drug regulator said companies manufacturing combination   and Hepatitis B & C can seek early approval with a WHO recommendation, even if internationally the medicines are not approved as a combination but only individually .
 
 “Many of these combination products, recommended in WHO guidelines for concomitant use, may not have been approved internationally in combination but may have been approved individually . However, given the risk-benefit and recommendations by WHO, the requirement of generated data may be waived based on the fact that the product has been recommended for concomitant use by WHO,“ the notice by G N Singh, the drugs controller general of India said.
 
 The move is expected to benefit many of the over 21 lakh people estimated to be living with HIV in India. Moreover, viral hepatitis has also been recognized as a serious public health problem in India by WHO, with a total of over 52 million people infected with chronic hepatitis in the country.
 
 The regulator has also allowed leeway to manufacturers to conduct clinical trials or bio-equivalence studies in India.
 
 The new norms allow companies to apply for such studies and product approvals simultaneously , whereas usually firms have to submit trial data first. In some cases, the regulator has suggested waiving clinical trials for urgent use. “Clinical trial waiver for such products recommended by WHO for concomitant use may be given, as being falling under the category of extreme urgency and under the provisions of the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules,“ it said.
 
 2% price rise likely for essential medicines.
 
 Prices of all essential medicines are likely to go up by nearly 2% from April 1. NPPA has asked companies to submit documents to avail the annual price hike based on wholesale price index (WPI). Under Drugs Price Control Order, the regulator revises prices annually based on the changes in WPI. 
 
 
