LUCKNOW: The 36-year-old  , who was found dead under   in Lucknow on Wednesday was about to expose scams worth thousands of crore rupees in the Congress-led government in  , said Parliamentary Affairs Minister  , quoting the officer’s family members, in the state assembly on Thursday.

 This was in reply to the claim of the Opposition benches that Bahraich (UP) native  , posted as commissioner in the department of food, civil supplies and consumer affairs in Bengaluru was murdered.
 
 Earlier, the Opposition members didn’t allow the House to function with members demanding discussion on poor law and order in the state. Continuous request by Speaker H N Dixit finally pacified the members who went back to their seats. Not unsatisfied with the government reply, Samajwadi Party members led by LoP Ram Gobind Chaudhary, along with Congress and BSP members staged a walkout.
 
 Replying to Opposition’s claim, Khanna said: “It is true that the body of the officer was recovered yesterday but the government ensured the post-mortem examination was conducted by a panel of four doctors and since the exact cause of death could not be ascertained, the viscera has beeen preserved,” the   said.
 
 The officer was found dead on Wednesday under mysterious circumstances on the roadside in the high-security Hazratganj area here on Wednesday. Earlier, the matter was raised during Question Hour by SP members with Nitin Agrawal alleging that the   offier was murdered in a high-security area.
 
 SP members also jumped into the well of the House to raise the matter.
 
 The Speaker, however, said the matter could not be raised during Question Hour and asked members to return to their seats. Leader of the Opposition Ram Gobind Chowdhury said the ‘murder’ of the IAS officer in VIP area was a serious matter.
 
 Congress Legislature Party leader Ajay Pratap ‘Lallu’ also raised the matter while demanding a CBI probe into the incident. Khanna assured the House that a probe was on in the matter.
 
 A 2007 batch IAS officer, Tewari was staying at the Meera Bai Marg guest house with a batchmate after attending a mid-career training programme at Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration in Mussoorie.
 
 He was in his sleepwear when he was found dead on Wednesday morning and it was his birthday.
 
 
