NEW DELHI: Constable Sushma had never thought about going for a   check-up, but thanks to a new initiative by Delhi Police on International Women’s Day that she was alerted in the nick of time and can now prepare for a battle with the dreaded disease.

 Sushma was diagnosed with primary symptoms of breast cancer on Wednesday during the free mammography drive for the women constabulary done in collaboration with  , an NGO started by cricketer  .
 
 The initiative, which started with the check-up of 300 cops with the  , will be extended to all districts. “This drive will be carried out in all police colonies and units to benefit not only women officers but also the kin of male policemen,” said Dependra Pathak, special commissioner (operations) and Delhi Police spokesperson.
 
 Other women constables welcomed the initiative with open arms. “Owing to the nature of our job, we have a hard time juggling between work and family. In doing so, we forget that our health is also important. From now, we are never going to neglect our health,” said constable Manisha Sharma.
 
 Some outside the doctor’s room were nervous about attending the programme. “We are aware that breast cancer is a menace, but never bothered to get ourselves checked. Today’s programme was an eye-opener. Considering the risk, we will make sure that we visit a doctor every six months for a check-up,” said constable Komal Arya.
 
 While addressing over 300 woman constables, Shabnam Singh, Yuvraj Singh’s mother and a trustee of YouWeCan, recalled the tough times she and her family went through while her son was undergoing treatment for cancer.
 
 “The   I interacted with have common problems, like pain during their menstrual cycle, lumps in breasts, irregular menstrual cycles, discharge and pain in pelvic area. But these are not prominent symptoms of the disease,” said Dr Manasvi Behl, who interacted with the policemen.
 
 Four Delhi University students, who saw their dear ones go through the pains of cancer, had volunteered to be a part of the programme. “I couldn’t do anything for my relatives who died due to cancer, but now I want to make a difference by educating people about the disease,” said Rohan Jain, a DU student.
 
 
