LUCKNOW: The city woke up to the melodious renditions of ‘Sounds of Isha’ at BR Ambedkar auditorium where the nationwide movement for reviving India’s life-giving rivers started on Tuesday. Conceived by yogi and mystic  , founder of  , “Rally for Rivers” received a welcome with open arms by Lucknow residents and UP government.

 Sadhguru had a dialogue with UP chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi, who assured dedicated support to the cause that needs a fundamentally strong policy for conservation of rivers.
 
 Yogi said the campaign is not a jumla, but a yajna with an unavoidable involvement of people. Calling youngsters online warrirors, Sadhguru asked everyone to take a selfie with a river in their vicinity, provide its name and describe its condition, which could become a public-driven survey across the country.
 
 People have voted in support of the river policy by giving a missed call on the number 80009 80009. “Give a missed call, make people you know do the same. You can also ask people you don’t know to give a call in support of our mighty rivers and the future,” the mystic told students.
 
 The rally started from Coimbatore on September 2, flagged off by Union minister of environment, forest & climate change, Harsh Vardhan. It will culminate in Delhi on October 2 after travelling 8,000 kilometres through 16 states.
 
 This is the first time that a nationwide campaign for a cause to help both our present and future generations has been supported by people across political spectrums, irrespective of their affiliations and policies. The draft policy suggests tree cover up to a depth of 1km on riverbanks — forest trees on government land and fruit trees on farmland — to ensure that moisture in the soil and the air feeds the rivers throughout the year.
 
 The change is such that perennial rivers are becoming seasonal, India has less than 75% water per person than it had in 1947 and 25% of land is losing fertility and becoming a desert. Almost 80% of youths under 18 years of age haven’t seen rivers in real life and by 2030 only 50% river water will be present. Giving these facts, Sadhguru asked people to become a part of the campaign and make it a public movement.
 
 “In India, we generally respond to a problem either emotionally or politically, but for our life-giving and life-saving rivers we need to think scientifically. For this, we need a policy and public-driven campaign to consolidate political will,” said Sadhguru.
 
 The CM said, “This is not just a slogan or wordplay, but an important step on which UP has already started working on. River is water and water is life and, hence, rivers are our lives and we need to save them.”
 
 Deputy CMs Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, politician Raghuraj Pratap Singh ‘Raja Bhaiya’, cricketer Suresh Raina and singer Mohit Chauhan were part of the event with hundreds of schoolchildren forming the audience.
 
 Raina applauded the campaign and pledged his support to it. Dinesh Sharma said that in a land that reveres its rivers as mother, where religious connotations are attached to elements of nature, its citizens are duty-bound towards their protection.
 
 
