PANAJI/MARGAO:   appealing to the electorate on the basis of caste, community and language will have to tread cautiously at the hustings in view of the recent   verdict enlarging the meaning of corrupt practices during elections.

 While political parties sift through the judgment to understand the contours of law, experts debate how the issues dominating Goa’s politics may come within the realm of corrupt practises.
 
 Prior to this, it was considered to be an act of corruption if a candidate sought votes on the basis of his religion, race, caste, community or language. Now, votes solicited on the basis of a voter’s religion, race, caste, community or language will disqualify the wannabe legislator.
 
 In Abhiram Singh’s case in January this year, the   observed, “An appeal in the name of religion, race, caste, community or language is impermissible under the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and would constitute a corrupt practice sufficient to annul the election in which such an appeal was made, regardless of whether the appeal was in the name of the candidate’s religion, the religion of the election agent, that of the opponent, or that of the voter.”
 
 Hence, religion, race, caste, community or language would not be allowed to play any role in the electoral process. Should an appeal be made on any of those considerations, it would constitute a corrupt practice, the   held.
 
 An appeal in the name of religion, race, caste, community or language would constitute a corrupt practice sufficient to annul the election, it further noted.
 
 Eminent lawyer Cleofato Coutinho, opined, “Though the Supreme Court’s judgment bars candidates from appealing for votes on the basis of religion, caste or community, I don’t believe deciding to empower lower classes/castes will come within the purview of the apex court judgment. Finally, our Constitution is all about social welfarism; how lower classes will come up is the issue.”
 
  president Prabhakar Timble, said, “Although the MoI issue has been made into an election issue, the election is not fought on that issue. MoI has to be decided by parents and educationists and not through the ballot box. Having said that, the   making the MoI an election issue doesn’t amount to fanning emotions on the basis of language in the context of the SC’s embargo, because MoI isn’t a language.”
 
 Former Union law minister Ramakant Khalap, said, “If there is a candidate who belongs to a caste that has a certain social stigma attached to it, and if he is denigrated on the grounds of his caste, you’ve had it. But, if you say you will work for the masses, but use the word ‘masses’ to include a majority caste or class, the violation becomes difficult to pinpoint.”
 
 
