KOLKATA: Controversial movie ‘Lipstick Under My Burkha’ which stars, among others, Kolkata girl Konkona Sen Sharma, is eligible for an official Golden Globes qualifying screening. The Alankrita Shrivastava-directed movie, which also features Ratna Pathak Shah, Aahana Kumra and Plabita Borthakur in starring roles, had hit the headlines in January after the   (CBFC) refused to certify it, on the ground that it was “lady oriented”.

 So far, only three Indian films have bagged nominations to the award. But this is the only one that has been refused a certification, prompting many including Aparna Sen and Goutam Ghose to insist that the CBFC should reconsider its decision. 
 
 At a recent screening of the film at the Indian Film Festival of Los Angeles, festival director Christina Marouda said: “We are honoured that the Hollywood Foreign Press Association has chosen our opening night film, ‘Lipstick Under My Burkha’, to be an official Golden Globes qualifying screening. The director will now have the opportunity to plan a Golden Globes campaign if she choose to submit the film for nomination.”
 
 The real irony is that although it may go on to receive one of film’s most prestigious awards, it can’t be viewed in Indian theatres. On January 25, while refusing to certify it, CBFC stated: “The story is lady oriented, their fantasy above life. There are contanious [sic] sexual scenes, abusive words, audio pornography and a bit sensitive touch about one particular section of society.”
 
 Reacting to this, actor-director Aparna Sen said: “ It’s ridiculous. Why can’t they give it an ‘A’ and be done with it?” Goutam Ghose, who was part of the   committee, formed to suggest revisions in the Cinematograph Act, agreed. “Since it has got such an international position, CBFC ought to reconsider its stand. Refusing certification to such a film is extremely unfortunate. We have submitted our recommendations [to revisions in the Cinematograph Act]. Our suggestions have done away with cuts and insists only on gradations. Once that’s accepted, it will be easier for filmmakers,” he said.
 
 Rahul Vaidya, CBFC’s regional officer for Mumbai, said: “The film has gone to the Film Certification Appellate Tribunal.” 
 
 ‘Lipstick...” editor Charu Shree Roy said CBFC and the government must understand that the idea of censorship has become obsolete. “ People across the world are watching our film. It can also be shown on multiple media platforms,” she said. Premendra Mazumder, former general-secretary of the Federation of Film Societies of India and a jury member at the Cairo International Film Festival, where the movie was screened, said it had been “well-received” there. “If Egypt can watch the film, why should India be deprived?” he wondered.
 
 
