PATNA: 
  on Friday on the issue of corruption, demanding that his family members disclose the source of "massive property" that they allegedly own. 

  Without taking any names, JD(U) spokesperson Neeraj Kumar referred to the allegations by the opposition BJP that  's family members had acquired benami properties at various places in the country, saying these needed to be explained. 
 
  "They (Lalu's family members) should explain the source of the massive property and money as questions have been posed to them by the opposition," said Kumar. 
 
  JD(U) has stepped up pressure on RJD since July 5, when the CBI registered an 
  . The CBI had filed the FIR against the RJD leader for being the owner of Lara (Lalu-Rabri) Projects LLP, which was allegedly transferred three acres of land near Saguna Mor in Patna. 
 
  The land was allegedly given by a hotelier in exchange for a contract to run two hotels belonging to the IRCTC when Lalu was railway minister in UPA 1. A mall is coming up on this land for which environmental clearance has not been taken. 
 
 Referring to the Saguna Mor property, among others, Kumar said: "They should answer whether the properties, including the mall and the land, are owned by them or not. It is imperative for them to come out clean as the zero tolerance stance of the   on corruption is crystal clear."
 
 Another JD(U) spokesperson, Ajay Alok, said it was because of Bihar chief minister 
  that RJD had managed to emerge as the single largest party in the assembly by winning 80 seats. Replying to RJD MLA Bhai Birendra’s remark that his party was playing the role of “big brother” in the Grand Alliance because it had more MLAs than JD(U), Alok said Lalu’s party increased its tally from 22 in 2010 to 80 in 2015 only because of Nitish’s projection as the alliance leader. 
 
 “Nitish is the leader of the Grand Alliance, no one else. Those who are boasting of having 80 MLAs should not show arrogance. Let there be no confusion; it will not take us even five minutes to quit power,” Alok said, adding, “Our intention should be to serve people and not to amass property. They (Lalu’s family) should answer the corruption charges levelled against them in the FIR lodged by the CBI.” 
 
 JD(U) MLC Sanjay Singh, who is also the chief spokesperson of the party, said: “People should wait. There will be some action when Nitish breaks his silence,” he added.
 
