NEW DELHI:   as a “pro-poor” measure and the surgical strikes on terror launch pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir will be BJP’s major election planks in the coming assembly elections in five states, party president   told the party national executive on Friday.

 The executive hailed the   government’s “historic” note ban move that the   chief said had snatched the “propoor” plank from the party’s opponents. Curbing black money would provide more funds for development, he said. 
 
 The surgical strikes will also underline BJP’s poll campaign with the party saying this was a necessary measure to establish peace on the LoC and international border. 
 
 Shah reminded the party that its last executive at Kozhikode had taken place after the attack on the Army camp at Uri in J&K and that a suitable response had since been delivered.
 
 The executive began by felicitating PM Modi for his “courageous decision” to ban Rs 500 and 1,000 notes. 
 
 Shah elaborated on how the demonetisation move would “benefit the country in the long run” and hit out at rivals “who have no answer to the demonetisation move and are screaming loudly against the government as their plank for the poor has been stolen” by BJP.
 
 Note ban has provided extra cash for welfare projects, claims Shah
 
 Exuding confidence, BJP national president Amit Shah said the party would win all five assembly elections scheduled for the next two months, and declared that the party would work for social justice.
 
 “People gave BJP the mandate under Modi’s leadership, not just to run the country but to provide for justice for the poor,” BJP veteran and   minister   later told the media.
 
 The available funds for development have remained between Rs 4 crore and 5 lakh crore, but with unaccounted for money deposited in banks, there would be extra funds for welfare programmes, Shah said in a speech that dwelt mostly on benefits the country would reap in the future through demonetisation.
 
 Shah also told the executive that the Modi government prepared for two and a half years before announcing demonetisation, and that it all started by readying the ground with schemes like   and a drive to expand Aadhaar coverage to ensure common people had bank accounts and the wherewithal required for financial inclusion,   said.
 
 Encouraged by the recent BJP victories in municipal polls in different places in the country, the BJP chief said that the best reflection of people’s mood and support for an initiative like demonetisation was through election results, and the coming elections “will show whether people have supported demonetisation or not,” Javadekar said.
 
 The party chief also said that in the next two years, BJP would work in full strength for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, especially in seats that it lost in 2014, where party workers will spend a stipulated number of days at the booth and constituency level for a whole year from now.
 
