Indore: For hundreds of Catholics belonging to St. Francis Assisi Cathedral, Sunday came as a special occasion since   celebrated its golden jubilee here. 

 Not only the present parish members, but the old devout, who have shifted to other churches of the city, were present at the Red Church to witness the jubilee celebration. 
 
 The celebration began in the morning at 8am with a procession including priests, nuns and hundreds of devotees led by a St Francis’s shrine placed in a chariot as he is the patron saint of the church.
 
 After the procession, the believers took part in special   led by Bishop of Indore dioceses, Rev. Chacko Thottumarickal. Provincial superior of India central province Rev. Father Xavier Thirukudambam was guest of the honour. 
 
 Around 5 other priests including the parish priest, Father Biju Mathew also performed the Eucharistic ceremony. During the holy mass, the Bishops remembered about the life of St Francis and prayed for the parish members. 
 
 He also thanked parish members and ardent devotees, who helped this parish, grow from a small church to one of the most beautiful and biggest churches of the city. 
 
 The day-long celebration that began in the morning with spiritual prayer concluded at evening with a cultural programme and community dinner, wherein the parish members were invited. The cultural programmes were held at St Paul’s College auditorium. Youth from the parish staged a skit on the life of patron St. Francis on the occasion. 
 
 “Our parish has completed 50 years since its establishment and thus we have gathered to celebrate and thank God for this occasion. The day-long celebration included spiritual and cultural celebration along with the devotees,” said Fr.Biju Mathew, the parish priest of St. Francis Assisi Cathedral. 
 
 Ex-parish priests, who had been a part of the church in the past, were also present on this occasion. “We have been a part of this church since the beginning and the faith and association from this church is such that our three generations have come to attend this function,” said BA Alvares and Barkha Alvares, who have been a part of the parish since its initial years. 
 
 
