HYDERABAD: Continued or unsupervised use of  , or any other steroids, can lead to   among patients, warn doctors. Speaking at an event organised at the city's L V   on Wednesday, to launch a  , doctors said that Hyderabad has about “3.5 per cent glaucoma patients“. A significant portion of this population comprise cases of steroid-induced glaucoma, they added.

 “Although these medications may be necessary in the treatment of the disease, their indiscriminate and longterm use can result in steroid-induced glaucoma,“ said Dr Sailaja Senthil, eye surgeon and head of glaucoma service at LV Prasad.
 
 The city institute is planning to organise a series of activities as part of the glaucoma awareness week, to be observed from March 12-18, 2017. Incidentally, glaucoma is an eye disease that affects both adults and children and is said to be the leading cause of irreversible blindness in India. Records show that every eighth individual in India either has glaucoma or is at risk of developing the disease. About 11.2 million Indians suffer from the disease while 1.1 million, including children, have turned blind due to the disease.
 
 “Most people with glaucoma have no early symptoms or pain from this increased pressure, hence it is important to see your eye doctor regularly so that glaucoma can be diagnosed and treated before long-term visual loss occurs,“ Dr Senthil added.
 
 While reiterating that blindness caused by glaucoma is irreversible, doctors said it is only rarely that the spread of glaucoma is arrested before it leads to complete damage. “In such cases, we try and ensure that there is no further loss of vision. We try to do that either through medication or, in extremely complicated cases, with the help of surgery. But we can never restore the eye-sight that's already lost,“ said Dr G C Chandrasekhar, a glaucoma specialist from LVPEI.
 
 On the use of steroids, he commented: “Unfortunately these medicines are available over the counter. Hence, a lot of people use them without even reading the warning printed on the strip, which declares that it can also cause glaucoma.“ The disease, he added, is most common among people above the age of 40.
 
 While the glaucoma awareness week will start with a walk on March 12, on the final day, the institute will organise an education forum. This has primarily been designed to uphold, before the general public, the harmful effects of prolonged steroid use. Steroid drops are commonly used for treating eye inflammation and eye allergy.
 
 
