He is everything you imagined him to be, and some more. Cheeky, funny, outspoken and, more importantly, backed by a care-a-damn attitude. As the winner of   Season 4,   is the cynosure of all eyes, as we catch up with him soon after his mega victory on Sunday night. The trophy is poised next to him, which he holds on to dearly like a child to its precious toy. We then discover that this   boy has another big reason to celebrate —Pratham has reunited with his parents after a decade of being estranged from them. As we begin the interview, an enthusiastic Pratham indulges in plainspeak. His mother, Lakshmi, who is standing next to him rather protectively, chooses to interject with, “Adalla, heenge helo (don’t say that, say it this way)” at regular intervals. At one point, in his classic manner, Pratham retorts, “Ondu nimsha sumniru, neene yella helidre, naanenu matadli hangare? (Wait a minute; if you tell them everything, what’s left for me to say?)” Excerpts from the interview — one that’s peppered with Sanskrit quotes, Kuvempu poems and umpteen references to Dr   films.

 
 
 I come from a small hamlet called Halagapura in Kollegala taluk, which is where my parents live. But I studied in Mysuru and T Narasipura and grew up with my maternal grandparents. My parents, meanwhile, have always been strict, more so my father. Have you watched Dr Rajkumar’s 
 ? My folks were just like how Dr Raj and B Saroja Devi were in the film — they kept me on a tight leash. I think I went on to become a rebel because of this. My grandfather was my biggest support — he told me to quit studies and enjoy life. I miss him. 
 
 
 
 April 12, 2006, a day after the demise of Dr Rajkumar, I set foot in this city. I told my parents that I was finding it difficult to live with them and that my dreams were different from theirs. To them, life is all about government jobs and farming. They’re not wrong. But my aspiration was to become a filmmaker. Of course, I am the stubborn sort and refused to go back until I had made a name for myself. 
 
 
 
 My life has seen many ups and downs in the past decade. I did a course in direction and assisted on serials like 
 , 
  and 
 . Along the way, Rajesh Ramnath and KP Srikanth became my mentors. It was they who sustained me. I had absolutely no money. I lived in Rajesh’s studio and Srikanth had instructed a hotel nearby to give me free food. Last week, I ate 46 chillies for which I won Rs 58,600. I have given it to a trust as a guru dakshina in their name. 
 
 
 
 Yes, absolutely. I’ve been wanting to be a part of it for a long time now. I know I’m a deserving candidate. I didn’t come with the hope to win. I wanted to become a brand and I know I’ve successfully achieved it. Have you realised that I’m the only common man to have won the show until now? It’s a victory for every ordinary man out there.
 
 
 
 I’ve donated the money I won. Rs 5 lakh will be given to physically-challenged girls when they enter wedlock. The remaining will be given to poor families, soldiers and our farmers. (No, he has no dreams of becoming a politician!)
 
 
  
 
 Malle Gowda, a government employee, and Lakshmi, a high-school teacher, may have reunited with their son after a decade. But their love and affection for him has always stayed the same. “We have forgiven him for all his pranks and have told him to pursue a career in films,” says Malle Gowda. Lakshmi points out that Pratham has always been a voracious reader who’d spend hours in the library. “We didn’t know he could speak Sanskrit. He’s so intelligent and witty,” she says proudly. When he goes home, they plan to feed him his favourite mudde saaru and celebrate his victory with his brother.
 
 
 
 Ask him why he’s proclaimed himself as Olle Huduga Pratham and he quips “Darshan is Challenging Star, Ganesh is Golden Star and Upendra is Real Star... There are loads of stars. And I thought to myself, why no actor has an olle huduga prefix? I kept that title for myself.”
 
 
 
