NEW DELHI: Chief Election Commissioner   may have ruled on the Samajwadi Party symbol and settled the high-stakes matter in the bitter family feud but the commission is sure to stay focused on   in the coming weeks as India’s most populous state goes to the polls.
 
  For the election watchdog under Zaidi, who completes his term as CEC in July, this comes at a time when the man at the helm hails from Uttar Pradesh, was brought up there and worked in the state for most parts of his career as a civil servant. Born to a police inspector in UP police in Muzaffarnagar district, Zaidi and his siblings including the older Qamar Ahmad, an IPS officer, and his sisters moved to Dehradun where they were educated.
  
  A doctorate in biochemistry with several research papers to his credit, Zaidi went on to crack the IAS in 1976 – a career he was motivated to take up by his brother Qamar Ahmad, who retired as special commissioner of police in Delhi and later headed Delhi’s Minorities Commission.
  
  The UP cadre, Hindi speaking, said to be vegetarian bureaucrat, has left his mark on aviation in India, steering the country through tough public-private partnership negotiations to create shimmering new airports at Hyderabad, Delhi and Bengaluru but Zaidi has served in equally significant but less talked of times in his career in his native Uttar Pradesh.
  
  One of his most unforgettable assignments in the state would have to be from 1987. Zaidi was then district magistrate of Ghaziabad and the state hit national headlines when 42 Muslim men were allegedly gunned down by policemen in Hashimpura. His counterpart, superintendent of police of Ghaziabad, Vibhuti Narain Rai, spoke out in 2015 on the infamous massacre and detailed in his book ‘Hashimpura 22 May’ how the then DM Nasim Zaidi and he drove in the night of May 22-23, 1987 to Makanpur to find the 42 dead bodies off a stream.
  
  The CEC has not been heard speaking of this chapter in his long career. But this could change, with BJP politician Subramanian Swamy earlier this month seeking retrial in the case and in the Delhi High Court seeking permission to examine the then DM and SSP Ghaziabad on the matter for additional evidence. The hearings will be held in March.
  
  If Hashimpura is a UP memory he would probably not like to rekindle, there is another that he has often described as the true “building block” of his “future career”.
  
  Zaidi’s first posting was as assistant collector of Unnao and he went on to serve across UP, but he found his calling in Lucknow in 1980 when he was posted as a deputy secretary in the chief minister’s secretariat. Civil aviation was a largely ignored area in the state until Zaidi moved a proposal to set up a full-fledged department. The then CM agreed and from then on Zaidi started to move to a new career trajectory.
  
  He went on to start his central deputation as a joint secretary in the civil aviation ministry, then took over as India’s representative to the International Civil Aviation Organisation for three years and returned to head the Directorate General of Civil Aviation. He retired as secretary to the civil aviation ministry in 2012.
  
  Besides aircraft, Zaidi is said to dote on cats, read on them and spend considerable time pampering them – one of his Persian cats was called Chamiya. Cats apart, he once told the UP IAS association in a rare interview, he enjoys music and even singing in the company of friends. 
