NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   invoked the blessings of Narmada as he kicked off his two-day tour of   on Tuesday after a hectic spell of election campaign in Uttar Pradesh, indicating his next focus to win his home state again, which goes to polls by this year end. 

 "Yesterday I was with Ganga Maa, today I am with Maa Narmada. Yesterday I was in Banaras (Varanasi) and today I am in Bharuch...," he said while inaugurating a four-lane bridge on Narmada, which will make the drive smoother on Delhi-Mumbai highway. PM also laid foundation for a modern "Bus Port" so that the poorest of poor using bus to get the feeling of an airport. 
 
 The bridge and ancillary works have been completed in record 34 months and with nearly Rs 100 crore saving, highways minister Nitin Gadkari said. "After coming to power, we terminated old contract who was not performing and awarded it to new one. We got it done in record time," Gadkari added.
 
 Modi took the opportunity to cite how his government has brought the focus on completing works in time and to avoid cost overrun. "We are bringing the culture of completing projects in time... The model we had started in Gujarat now we are spreading it across the country" Modi said.
 
 Taking a dig at past governments in Uttar Pradesh he cited how they had forgotten completing work after laying foundation stones, PM cited that he was told about a project in his political constituency "Kashi", where nothing has progressed for 13 years. "I said had the project been under Central government, we would have completed it," Modi said.
 
 The PM said if there is good vision, right policy and good intent, people will support and success can be achieved. 
 
 He also cited how work is happening at a quicker pace since he assumed office whether it's roads or railways. PM also cited how during UPA regime only 59 panchayats got optic Fibre network, which has now covered 68,000 panchayats in less than three years. 
 
 PM announced highway ministry's decision to convert eight state highways totaling 1,200 km to national highways attracting Rs 12,000 crore investment. He also asked Gadkari to explore the possibility of plying steamers between Bharuch and Narmada Sarovar dam by constructing weir on the river. 
 
