Surat: Tuesday’s ill-fated incident of a teenage boy drowning at the Adajan swimming pool has raised serious questions over the authorities at the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC).

 It is that time of the year when the swimming pools run by the civic body are thronged by the residents, mostly teenagers due to the summer vacation. The big-sized swimming pools get more than 1,500 people. However, there is no limit set by the authorities on the batch-wise admission of the students. 
 
 Being the largest swimming pool, Adajan attracts swimmers in hoards. In a single batch, there are over 250 people swimming at one go in the pool. On the other hand, the Adajan pool has only three male and one female instructors to look after the teenagers — above 10 years of age — who take swimming lessons in the morning batches from 9 am. 
 
 Following Tuesday’s incident, where 16-year-old Om Mehta drowned in the 12 feet deep pool, civic chief M Thennarasan ordered suspension of three pool instructors for their negligence and dereliction of duty. However, questions have been raised why the civic authorities did not provide adequate staff at the swimming pools, considering heavy rush of teenagers during the three months of summer. 
 
 The civic body owns and operates around 15 swimming pools in seven municipal zones in the city. 
 
 Talking to TOI, Congress councillor Ashok Jirawala said, “The civic body earns huge income from the swimming pools during the summer season. It is the responsibility of the higher authorities to provide additional staff on temporary basis for three months.”
 
 Raju Naik, a regular at the Adajan swimming pool, said, “The pool is huge and you have more than 200 teeenagers and other learning swimming. It is very difficult for the instructors to keep eye on each and every person. The civic authorities need to fix a limit on the learning batch.” Asked about the shortage of staff at the pools, additional city engineer, A G Khatiwala said, “We get around 12 trained swimmers on contract for three months, considering the rush at the swimming pools. We understand this is not enough to manage huge crowds. However, we will increase additional batches to divide the students and there is a need to fix the student size in each batch.”
 
 
