CHENNAI: The  's (TNCA) decision to allow outstation players who are registered with it for the player draft for the second edition of the   ( ) has left officials of the   ( ) in a quandary.

 Some of the top domestic stars who are registered with the TNCA are the Pandya brothers (Hardik and Krunal), leg-spinner  , Punjab speedster Sandeep Sharma, Gujarat Lions and Kerala pacer  , KKR and Saurashtra wicketkeeper batsman Sheldon Jackson. Wary that the TNPL may resemble a 'mini-IPL,' a tournament which previous BCCI president Anurag Thakur was interested in launching in, the Board had shot down TNCA 's request to allow outstation domestic players to take part in the TNPL last year.
 
 With Thakur now gone, it remains to be seen if a wary BCCI does give a green signal to the TNCA to go ahead with its plans. "So far that policy (of not allowing outstation players in state association's domestic leagues) is in existence. It hasn't been changed as yet,"   chairman Rajiv Shukla told TOI on Thursday. "Once we allow one state, all the others will start sending us similar requests. The exclusivity and charm of the IPL will be affected," said another official.
 
 However, another top Board official differed on the matter. "Those players are registered with the TNCA. They're playing local leagues there. The idea is to promote cricket, I suppose," he said. The TNCA, on its part, is sure that it will get the go-ahead from the BCCI on the matter. "The Board had assured us last year itself that we'll get it next year, so we're confident of getting it this year," said a member of the TNPL governing council.
 
 "Players like Chawla are employees of Chemplast, and are registered with the TNCA, and have played in our league for the last 10 years. There are about 40-50 outstation players who're employed here. They are bank or railways employees, who have a residence in Chennai," he informed.
 
 In case it allows TNCA to move ahead with its plans, the Board may quickly have to accede to a similar request from the Karnataka State Cricket Association (KSCA) too, which conducts the Karnataka Premier League ( ). In the past, the BCCI has refused to accede to the same demand from the KSCA too. "We don't mind inviting players from other states, as long as we get permission from the Board," said KSCA secretary Sudhakar Rao.
 
 "It will benefit players from those states where such kind of T20 tournaments aren't held. We can follow an IPL-type model, where only two or four outstation players could be allowed," felt another KSCA official.
 
