Post rehab, the 30-year-old   is on a mission to promote a healthy lifestyle, said his mother, the late Smita Patil, would like the new him. Mirror had earlier reported that on  's 30th death anniversary last December, her 30-year-old son,  , celebrated a year-long sobriety from alcohol and drugs. Four months later, the actor who is currently in   with plans to start a welfare centre for those grappling with drugs and  , admits that a healthy lifestyle has changed his life for the better.

 "I am in a happy space today. Opportunities are coming in and I'm determined to work hard because now I don't fear failure anymore. I've seen it enough and know how to deal with it," he asserts.
 
  
  
 Post rehab, in his search for solace he had gone to Himachal Pradesh for detox. "I was depressed and fighting substance abuse. I found help there and I want to introduce those who might be facing similar problems to my new found wellness recipe. The centre will enhance holistic well-being through organic diets, home-grown detox regimes including aryurvedic massages and provide a home stay facility in an ecological environment," he promises, saying that he came up with the idea during his process of cleaning up and soul searching.
 
 His childhood friend from the US, Utsav, is helping him set up this dream. They will explore a third party funding at a later stage. "I believe being healthy is not only about being off drugs and alcohol, it's about a positive state of mind, being pro-active and a go-getter, states Prateik who will be opening the first centre in Dharamsala by the year end and start a few other branches in other hill stations in 2018.
 
  "I'm not a Buddhist, but I do believe in Buddhism and chant a few mantras. It is actually the vibe and beauty of Dharamsala that makes it special." Prateik believes his mother's blessings are always with him and Smita would be happy to see the new Prateik. "I share a strange relationship with her. She's always there with me. I'm mature enough today to accept this in a positive way. My mom and my grandmother (Vidyatai Patil) drive me to better myself while my sibling, Juhi and Arya, and everyone else, are extremely supportive," he says emotionally, adding that he now intends to kick the butt. "I still smoke, but I have reduced the number of cigarettes. It's a work in progress still."
 
  
  
  
  
 
