HYDERABAD: Nearly 4,000   working at hospitals attached to   in the city and other parts of the state are drawing   than nurses, stenos and other office staff. In some cases their salaries are half of what the other staff draws. 

 Understandably, many doctors are a demoralised lot because of their `meagre salaries' ever since they joined service over 12 years ago.
 For instance, the salary scale of an associate professor at Osmania Medical College and Osmania General Hospital is Rs 15,600 Rs 39100.
 
  At the same time, a staff nurse enjoys a salary scale of Rs 25, Rs 140- Rs 73, Rs 270. Even stenotypists are far ahead of doctors with a salary scal of Rs 16,400 to Rs 49,870. The scenario is the same across government hospitals attached to medical colleges including the Osmania General Hospital, Government ENT Hospital, Government Maternity Hospital, Petlaburj, Government Maternity Hospital, Sultan Bazar, Niloufer Hospital, Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital, Institute of Mental Health, Sanathnagar, Institute of Chest Diseases, Sanathnagar, Institute of Tropical Diseases (Fever Hospital), Nallakunta, Institute of Preventive Medicine, Narayanguda and  
 
 The pay disparity exists due to the partial implementation of the UGC scales to which the then Government Doctors Association had agreed over a decade ago. Also since UGC scales are revised once in 10 years the agreement betwe en the state government and the then association, has worked to the disadvantage of the doctors. Another factor that widened the gap was the Telangana government's decision two years back to enhance salaries of all state government employees by roughly 27 percent. This benefited nurses and other staff.
 
 “Even doctors are state government employees but our salaries are given as per the   while other staff and even doctors of government hospitals which are not attached to medical colleges are paid as per state government pay scales.We are requesting for payment of full UGC scales. If we were paid the entire UGC scale our salaries would be nearly double the current salaries,“ said Dr Manish Gupta, president, Osmania unit II of Telangana Government Doctors Association.
 
 Currently, the doctors are not being paid patient allowance, academic allowance, rare specialty allowance, overcoat allowance, post-mortem allowance, court allowance, administrative allowance, risk allowance, overtime allowance, conveyance allowance, stay duty allowance, call duty allowance, emergency duty allowance and others.
 
 “It's not just that we are paid less but when we see a steno being paid more than us, it causes heartburn.There are also massive delays in promotions which are further adding to the demotivation. I am nearing retirement and I am still an assistant professor,“ said a doctor at the Gandhi Hospital.
 
