HYDERABAD: It was Thursday the 28th of August, 1918. There was an air of celebration all over Hyderabad. A long cherished dream was about to come true. The princely state of Hyderabad was about to get its first institution of higher learning ­  . A large number of people including a few distinguished guests had gathered at a building adjacent to the   on the   in what is now Basheerbagh. The university received sanction from the ruler, Mir Osman Ali Khan, a year earlier.

 The meeting was presided over by Moulvi Habibur Rahman Khan Shervani, Ecclesiastical minister who served as the vice-chancellor of Osmania University. The meeting heralded the formal birth of Osmania University. There was loud applause as the Firman (royal decree) of the Nizam was read marking the formal launch of the university.
 
 Initially 90 students were enrolled and later 52 more admissions were made taking the total strength to 142. A few students dropped out as they could not pay the tuition and hostel fee. By the end of the year the strength came down to 107. The next year (1919) 131 students joined the university. Today, the university has over 3,00,000 students.
 
 Not many know that there were two Firmans issued by Mir Osman Ali Khan with regard to Osmania University. The first Firman was issued on April 26, 1917 granting permission for the formation of the university. It was general in nature. Another Firman was issued on August 14, 1918. This was a specific Farman and within a fortnight, the inaugural function of   was held on August 28, 1918. It was the second Firman that was read at the inaugural function.
 
 As was the tradition then, the function began with the recitation of some verses of the Holy Quran. Ak bar Hydari, secretary to government in the education department, read the Firman. The Nizam did not attend the inaugural cere mony. According to official documents of the Nizam government, the then vice-chancellor hoped and prayed that the university would “confer great and lasting benefits by spreading the right type of education and bringing to the doors of the poorest of his (Nizam) people“.
 
 Official records reveal that the government had “recruited distinguished teachers in order to give the true university stamp to the teaching“.English and theology were compulsory for all students.Theology was however taught to Sunni Muslims as “no arrangements could be made for other religions and sects“.
 
 Besides English and theology , every student has to take up three optional subjects. In later years, Hindu students were taught about Hinduism, Christian students about Christianity and Muslim students about Islam. In the annual examination held in 1919, 97 students were promoted to the second year class.Only three students had secured first class while 20 students passed in second class.
 
