A wounded eight-year-old tiger rescued from Bandipur in the wee hours of Friday is said to have succumbed to grievous injuries at the   (BBP) later in the morning. But it remains a mystery as to whether it was brought dead or died after being brought to BBP due to infighting.

 The tiger’s death has resulted in blame game between the   and those from the   (KFD), with the former claiming it was brought dead, while the latter swear it died after they brought it conscious and healthy to the BBP for rehabilitation.
 
 Nevertheless, the incident has brought forth the debate about the need for a trained wildlife biologist in the department to handle such situations.
 
 Sharing details about the medical conditions of the tiger with Bangalore Mirror, Dr Manjunath, veterinarian at BBP, said they received the tiger in wee hours of Friday and that it was brought dead.
 
 “The tiger must have died on its way to the BBP. When we examined the tiger, it had multiple fractures on its limbs with punctured wounds. The wounds were surrounded with pus, causing bacterial infection. The infection has further resulted in septicaemia. Its lungs revealed pulmonary lymph nodes, and due to poor lymphatic drainage the limbs were swollen with muscle necrosis. These wounds could have been due to infighting. Kidneys too were found slightly enlarged. The stomach and intestine had absolutely nothing, suggesting that it had not eaten for nearly two-weeks!”
 
 However, the Range Forest Officer (RFO) of Hediyala Range in  , where the tiger was rescued from, said the tiger was alive when they brought it in. “It was a young and healthy tiger. It regained consciousness while it was still in our custody. If it had died we would not have shifted the tiger to BBP. Our staff revealed that it was alive till it was unloaded at BBP. We noticed the presence of a bull gaur near the rescued spot, and it could have injured itself while trying to hunt it. As far as our understanding of the cat upon rescue goes, there were no marks or traces of wounds, which indicates the injuries could have been sustained by it due to a fight with another tiger in BBP,” the RFO said.
 
 As the   had resolved not to accept any animal for treatment in the backdrop of the bird flu outbreak, the officials, following the direction of principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF) (Wildlife) BG Hosmath, shifted the tiger to the BBP.
 
 Lamenting over the incident, Hosmath said, “It was unfortunate. We tried our best to provide it with utmost care with the best treatment. But during the process, something may have gone wrong and it has succumbed to injuries. It was true that the tiger had not eaten for over a week, making it very weak and there is a possibility that its biological condition did not respond to the treatment and it may have succumbed to its injuries. Infighting is natural when there is spurt in population. But in the process, when we noticed the injured tiger we tried our best to give it life by rescuing and shifting it for higher medical care.”
 
 When asked about rumours that tiger was given a high dose of tranquiliser, Hosmath said, “Rumours are rumours, and they pop up in every situation. But it (its death) was a natural process. The animal had sustained injuries in the wild and when it had come to our notice, we tried best to save its life. But unfortunately we ran out of luck. In fact, the doctor who rescued the tiger by giving a tranquiliser has been with the department for over 15 years and has captured several tigers in the past too. How could he go wrong?”
 
 The incident has yet again brought forth the debate over requirement of a trained biologist in the department to handle such situations. “Currently we have veterinarians serving the department on deputation from Animal Husbandry department. But with such vast experience they have been doing well,” Hosmath replied.
 
 The blame-game apart, the spurt in the number of big cats in tiger reserves of Karnataka may have made the state proud at the national level; but this case has brought out a dark side to be revealed: Fighting for space, resulting in increasing incidents of infighting among tigers has turned out be a major bane for the Karnataka Forest Department (KFD). While officials and experts have called it a natural process, the incidents are gradually taking a toll on the big cats.
 
