KOCHI: Indian football’s tryst to Olympics has been restricted to just two--1948 London Olympics and 1956 Melbourne Olympics. Though a predominately barefooted Indian team went down to 1-2 to France in their World Cup debut in London, eight years later the team led by   exceeded expectations and finished a creditable fourth. Since then, India have not even come to close to qualifying for the Olympics and the national team’s performance lacklustre.

 But the last couple of years there has been a renewed focus on football especially with the country gearing up to host their first-ever World Cup, the   later this year.
 
 So when the central government decided to appoint national observers for Olympic sports on Monday, they decided to include football as one of the 12 disicplines and penciled in the name of   to monitor and chalk out plans for the game in the country. The national obeservers are entrusted with the task of playing a key role in implementation of action plans for   2020, 2024 and 2028 and the former Indian captain feels that this will be a new beginning for  .“We need to unearth young talents. That will be my primary job as an observer,” Vijayan told TOI on his task ahead.
 
 The 47-year-old, who rose to stardom from humble beginnings in Thrissur, said that the real talent can be found only in rural areas. “Most of our academies are based in urban areas but the real talent can found only in rural parts of our country. I have witnessed great skills in players who hail from Wayanad in Kerala. Similarly, players from North-Eastern region of India are extremely talented. But most of our academies are based in cities and function for money-making purposes. They care little about training kids from the villages as they have no money,” said Vijayan who scored 32 international goals from 70 appearances.
 
 “Results will only come if we stop seeing football as a business,” said Vijayan taking a dig at the private football academies in the country. “For me football is a passion, not business,” he added. “I cannot accept the fact that kids need to pay 2500 to 6000 rupees per month to get football coaching in several academies in India. This is not fair and I hope to change this” he said.
 
 
