I am really concerned with what is happening with the media. With increasing number of   and stiff competition, can   do anything? An unwary Saseendran has paid dearly for his innocuous impropriety. But will the channel pay anything for its lascivious breach of ethical canon?

 The question of existence concerns everybody. If the society approves these things, then there is a possibility that other channels may also imitate. We don’t want such things. We need courageous and investigative journalism. This maybe a temporary victory for the channel, but it will not last. Ultimately, the credibility of the media will suffer as a whole.
 
 After all, in the real world there are so many issues concerning women and children. Every day we hear and read of unprecedented levels of crimes against women – rape, sexual abuse – that are frightening. The media needs to project reality and expose the real dangers rather than create an imaginary situation and then get engaged in it. This is a futile effort and dubious journalism to the core. It will not serve the real cause, and is a matter of concern.
 
 Media needs to be courageous. It must have the conviction to expose the wrong doings and corruption in the society. In the process, they will have to expose the corruption, misdeeds and misdemeanours of politicians too. But, the media is not expected to arrange or lay a trap for an unwary person to give sensational news, it does not serve any public purpose. This we can’t approve.
 
 I agree that Saseendran was talking in an improper manner. But, the problem here is with the manner in which the TV channel has dealt with the issue. The elderly ex-minister was forced to speak, with a woman prompting him to talk. My impression is that it was an arranged conversation and not a voluntary or instant conversation. The whole conversation seems arranged and the ex-minister fell into the trap and paid a price. I accept the impropriety on the part of Saseendran. In the past, there were instances of state ministers using their official capacity for sexual favours. Such instances were exposed and needs to be brought to public notice.
 
 But, the real problem here is that on the inaugural day itself, a TV channel telecasts Saseendran’s conversation as breaking news and gets maximum mileage out of it. Here is a channel that on launch day comes with a proclamation that we are not respecting any moral or ethical rules in the field. This is dangerous. What is more worrying is that with this, we are entering a new phase of TV journalism, a voyeuristic media activity that doesn’t consider public interest or serve even any private interest. This is done to serve only prurient interest.
 
 Even in sting operations there is an ethical issue. But even then we justify sting operation because it involves some public interest—the end justifies the means. Investigative journalism started with Watergate   and it unravelled what had happened. But in this case nothing has happened and nothing would have happened.
 
 The society may want it and some may even approve it because of the political significance. But, ultimately people will reject it. We need to maintain credibility. Lack of credibility will prove dangerous for the media in the long run. Even a mighty publisher like Rupert Murdoch’s The News of the World, which was the top newspaper published in the United Kingdom from 1843 to 2011, had to be closed down once it lost credibility. It will be a disaster if other media channels take it as a standard pattern, worthy of imitation.
 
 
 (
 )
 
 
