KOLKATA: Allegations of medical negligence have not only put   under the scanner, but have also made their stress levels shoot up dramatically. Besides, the frequent attacks on junior doctors at government hospitals have turned the profession into a minefield, putting them in a nightmarish situation. To cope with this, over 100 medical students and doctors of NRS Medical College and Hospital have started taking taekwondo lessons, which they believe will improve mental strength, instil discipline, reduce stress and teach them self-defence.

 Taekwondo ace Pradipta Kumar Roy, who is also the first Indian athlete to be the Kukkiwon (World Taekwondo Headquarters, South Korea) overseas master, has been appointed for this unique venture. The classes are being conducted twice a week for two hours. 
 
 Students and doctors attending the training say they are already reaping the benefits. “We are really enjoying the course,” said Sanchari Pal, a final-year student.
 
 “I am attending the training to increase my fitness and to learn self-defence which could be needed any time,” said a hospital faculty member. NRS medical college principal Debashis Bhattacharya said this was a first-of-its-kind initiative for any government or private hospital. “We came up with the idea to help doctors enhance their mental and physical health,” he said. 
 
 Deputy superintendent   was the first to come up with the idea to introduce taekwondo training for the doctors. “Taekwondo helps in building self-discipline, confidence and helps in stress relief which is needed for doctors to cope with the daily stress,” he said. Biswas is himself a taekwondo practitioner under Roy’s guidance.
 
 Master Pradipta Kumar Roy “As a taekwondo player and instructor, it is my duty to build up moral character and mental strength among people. It is a noble initiative by the hospital authorities,” said Roy.
 
 Pointed out that it was none other than   who had introduced martial arts in  . 
 
 “Martial arts training is a regular feature in many educational and other institutions in many countries across the world. Taekwondo builds up character and helps to teach self control and discipline,” he said.
 
 "Taekwondo education is very important for today’s life. Respect, trust and open communication are the foundations of strong families. Taekwondo training promotes values such as honesty, courtesy, loyalty, and cooperation. Each is an essential component in maintaining a good family structure," Roy added.
 
