PUNE: Home maker Meena Ghante from Akashwani slums in   is grateful to the Pune Municipal Corporation’s initiative that saved her and her family from long queues of another kind. 

 “We have been using the common public toilets for decades together. At times, we would wait for a considerable time for our turns. But now, our dream of a toilet in our house has been fulfilled,” Ghante said. 
 
 The construction of toilets has been a major relief to women and children. “There are many labourers here and we assisted the contractor in expediting the construction and plastering work of the toilets,” she said. It has also made them keep the toilets and roads outside clean. 
 
 Santosh Kharat from Malwadi slums said they have stopped using the community toilets since PMC constructed the toilets, laid drainage lines and provided water connection. “It is better to have our own toilets instead of using the community ones because of cleanliness issues.” 
 
 “PMC staffers faced a tough time educating slum dwellers, but they managed to convince us. We then took up the initiative to convince women and explained the benefits of the project and they in turn convinced their family members. Their cooperation made the PMC’s task easy,” Kharat added.
 
 Like Ghante and Kharat, people residing in 21 slums are slowly getting rid of open defecation in Hadapsar area ever since the civic body undertook the project under Swachh Bharat or   in March.
 
 About 10% of the population opposed the toilets in their houses and efforts are on to win them over. “We want them to keep the environment clean and support the state and central governments in curbing open defecation,” Shaikh added.
 
 Bhagwan Vairat, president of the  , said the toilets are increasing the pressure on the drainage system and suggested replacing the system.
 
 He wanted commodes for senior citizens and disabled people and installation of water tanks. “The scheme will be defeated without these measures. The PMC’s health department should ensure that its staff visit the slums once in a fortnight to check if people are maintaining toilets and its surroundings,” Vairat added.
 
 Hadapsar ward office’s assistant municipal commissioner Sunil Gaikwad said, “We want Hadapsar to become open defecation free and complete the work of constructing toilets by March 31. We have sensitised people to do away with the practice of defecating on roads. We have set up a ‘good morning squad’ to deter slum dwellers from defecating on roads.”
 
 Gaikwad said commodes will be installed based on specific requirements. “The existing drainage line is sufficient. There is no need to construct water tanks since we have provided water connections to toilets.”
 
 “Slums like Vaiduwadi, Vasaivasti, and Taravadevasti have no drainage lines. The work of laying new drainage lines is on. A proposal to lay drainage lines in Mahatma Phule vasahat, Ishratbaugh, and Rajiv Gandhinagar has been initiated. Work will be done soon,” Gaikwad added.
 
