NEW DELHI: A 70-year-old man has been arrested for withdrawing money from others’ accounts after   waiting for their turn. When the police caught him with the help of a  ,   claimed he had amnesia and tried to mislead them for two days. Finally Kumar admitted that he was a fan of ‘super-cheat’ Natwarlal and had   several people in this fashion.

 Kumar would enter the bank posing as an elderly customer and wait beside the customer service desk asking others to help him withdraw money. During this, he would lift the passbook and later copy the signature and the account number on a personal withdrawal slip to steal money. 
 
 “We had received a complaint from a person that Rs 10,000 had been withdrawn from his account at a government bank in Shahdara. After analysing the CCTV footage, we zeroed in on the elderly man,” said Nupur Prasad, DCP, Shahdara. The police told bank officials to inform the station house officer if the man visited the bank again.
 
 On Thursday, an official spotted him trying to withdraw money using details of another customer. A team from the Mansarovar Park police station reached the bank and detained Kumar, who later said he wanted to earn quick money. 
 
 Kumar told the police that he would pose as a helpless elderly customer and keep looking for a probable target. If he found anybody signing on a bank document, he would stand behind him and try to copy the signature and the account number. Later, he would use both to withdraw money from the victim’s account. The accused said he had duped many people utilising the chaotic situation at banks during the demonetisation drive. 
 
 On Thursday, he even tried to apply for an instant ATM card for a customer’s savings account having Rs 7-8 lakhs. The police said he could copy any signature by looking at it once. Kumar, who was arrested on Saturday, claimed that he used to work as a printing press operator and could identify fonts easily which helped him copy signatures. 
 
 DCP Prasad said a case for cheating and impersonation had been registered against him. Six passbooks and signatures of those account holders were found on him. 
 
 
