MUMBAI:   has taken over four floors of a fully-occupied  , hitting out at the builder for doing nothing to obtain an occupation certificate (OC). 

  The 32-storey Dar Al Mawadda on   was an old cessed building redeveloped by  . A bench headed by Chief Justice Manjula Chellur on May 5 directed the court receiver to "immediately take over four floors (29-32), which are in occupation of the builder, so also other portions, if any, of other floors which are in occupation of the builder". 
 
  The direction came on a PIL which alleged FSI and fire safety violations. It stated that refuge areas on four floors were occupied, the lift well enclosed and converted into bedrooms, and duct area amalgamated to increase the flat area. 
 
 The court noted that in 2010, BMC refused the OC, and without it the building was occupied by the original tenants and flat purchasers, and some flats were occupied by the builder. The court was told there are 88 flats with 38 original tenants and 10 commercial units. The residents said since they were not paid rent in terms of the redevelopment agreement, they had no option but to occupy the flats allotted to them. The builder countered that flats were given to them only to furnish interiors but they occupied them.
 
 The bench said since September 2016, there seems be "no solution'' in terms of the Maharashtra Ownership of Flats Act (MOFA) at the builder's instance. It added that under  , persons responsible for completing the legal process and procedure should know what they are doing and what were the consequences, if they are not complied with. "If the OC is not given for seven years, since it was refused in 2010, the builder is indifferent to the legal process that has to be complied with,'' it added.
 
 Directing police to assist the court receiver, the bench said the builder had "to disclose which portions/areas are in his occupation, where third party rights are not created". It warned the builder that if the OC was not obtained within six weeks, the entire building will be vacated, he will have to pay transit rent to residents and his other projects will be stayed.
 
