Bhopal: Moved by heart-rending musical performance of 16 special children from  , an NGO, lyricist and film maker   presented a piano, a prized possession of 150 years. The physically challenged children mesmerised the poet by belting out his selected songs in last 50 years. “Displaying my 50 years of work just in 50 minutes is not less than a lifetime achievement for me,” said Gulzar after listening to songs from special students recently.

 The cultural programme took place in Mumbai marathon on December 15. Around 16 students from Arushi, the NGO working for special children presented ‘50 years of Gulzar in Indian music’ at the music show.
 
 
 “The performance of the children in age group of 7 to 18 won over hearts of audience who applauded them. Some were seen shedding tears of joy,” said Anil Mugdal, secretary of Arushi, recalling the event.
 
 After 50 minutes of performance, jam-packed audience at SP College auditorium turned speechless and were glued to their seats. “The 82-year-old Gulzar Sahab too could not hold back his tears and clutched my hand tight as if he was taken through his fabulous musical journey,” recalled Mugdal.
 
 While addressing the audience, Gulzar said, “You should not feel pity for any of the disabled child as they are well versed to carry their living.” The lyricist was so excited to meet Arushi children that he reached 45-minute early at the venue so that he can have an uninterrupted interaction with them
 
 Along with Gulzar, Rekha Bhardwaj, who was the one who started teaching music to these children some six years ago, shed tears of joy. Mugdal recalled, “Earlier, we did not use to teach music to students. But in 2011 when Rekha visited Arushi to conduct a workshop, she made students practise music as it is also an art which can help them convey their message. After Rekha’s suggestion, teachers at Arushi made music a permanent subject and started its practice daily.”
 
 Later after the cultural programme, Gulzar along with his daughter Meghna, gifted the piano to students of Arushi.
 
 
