PUNE: Distress writ large on his face,   has been trying desperately to establish contact with his parents back home in Syria since Tuesday’s suspected   that  , including several children.

 “I am quite worried about my family as my parents and four brothers are in Syria,” said Sulaiman Ali (29) an MBA student at a Kondhwa-based management institute.
 
 “I spoke to them only 15 days ago. Since mobile connectivity has been affected in Syria after the attack, I am unable to get in touch with them. I am extremely worried,” he said.
 
 As soon as Sulaiman came to know about the deadly chemical attack in Syria, which turned a northern rebel-held area into a toxic kill zone, he started calling up his parents’ phone numbers but in vain.
 
 Sulaiman, who hailed from Daraa town, close to Damascus city, left Syria in 2012 after terrorist organisations Al Qaeda and IS intensified activities in the region.
 
 Currently staying on United Nation (UN) refugee card, Sulaiman completed a bachelor’s degree in business administration from the Kondhwa-based institute and is now pursuing a master’s degree in business administration from the same institute.
 
 Commenting on the chemical attack, Sulaiman said, “At the moment only Allah can save my country.”
 
 “I am feeling very bad for the innocent children who died in the attack. What was their crime? What wrong have they done to anyone?” he questioned.
 
 According to Sulaiman, the IS insurgents and Al Qaeda have taken charge of his town and his family was planning to move to a safer place.
 
 “Nobody is safe back home. But what can I do for them? I am helpless,” he said.
 
 Sulaiman is married and is presently staying with his wife and two sons in the city. “I do not want to leave India. I feel very safe here. I just want to complete my education and get a good job in the city.”
 
 Before flying to Pune, Sulaiman’s wife had stayed in Jordan for a year. “She also feels very safe in Pune,” he said.
 
 Another Syrian refugee, who did not wish to be named, told TOI, “The attack has shaken me completely. I am currently worried about my family, relatives and friends in Syria.”
 
 He has been staying in the city for last three years. Some of the students, who are currently studying in city colleges, are hesitant to speak about the attack.
 
 “The attack is deadly. My country is going through a very tough phase. I am extremely worried,” said another student, who is currently enrolled as a graduate student in a city college.
 
 According to the   (FRO) records of Pune police, only 10 Syrian students are registered with them since 2016.
 
 An official from the FRO, told TOI, “There has been no new registration of Syrian student in 2017.”
 
 The FRO records show that in 2014 only 7 Syrian students had registered themselves and the number increased to 15 in 2015.
 
