MUMBAI: The Class VIII baseline test question paper leak and the state government's apathetic reaction to it has shocked academicians.

 Two days before the third round of baseline test in schools across the state, question papers of Class VIII English and mathematics were available to several students. The papers were doing the rounds on communication platforms like WhatsApp. TOI too received a copy of both the question papers. This year's third round--summative assessment II--will be conducted in all schools on April 6 and 7, except in Sangli, where it will take place on April 10 and 11.
 
 Principals said that it is time the state moved online for conducting examination. “Even if the test is application-based, students are being trained by the teachers. In addition to this, the papers are being assessed by their own teachers. So until exams move online, schools will continue to manipulate and results of these tests cannot be considered as a parameter of learning levels,“ said Father   , principal,  's ICSE, Mazgaon. “The Pragat Shaikshanik Maharashtra programme is about going digital so the state should consider sending the question papers in the morning on the day of the test,“ he added.
 
 Echoing his thoughts was member of the   classes owners' association   who said that the admission process, the teaching and examinations are crucial pillars of education and all the three have crumbled. “Even if the test is application-based, if students are handed out the answers, they will simply write that and how will the state then measure their learning?“ asked Bhambwani.
 
 Three rounds of competency tests are held for classes I to VIII to test learning levels in first language and mathematics. Teachers have also raised concerns over the money spent on these tests.
 
 “Last year, the state education department had said they would carry the tests online so that funds used to print the question papers are considerably brought down. But, the state has not done so. For instance, now everyone across the state, except for Sangli, will write the exam about five days earlier so how will the results show a real picture of the learning levels in those schools,“ said  , a teacher. He has once again written to the education department, demanding online exams. The dates for the exam in Sangli were postponed because of a government-organized science exhibition. “This should have been considered while deciding the dates earlier,“ he said.
 
 The state, meanwhile, has decided not to take any action against the paper leak.
 
