BENGALURU: The pricing scheme at   and major bus stands reeks of gender bias: Women have to pay for services that are free for men.

 According to signboards at these toilets, those using the WC (flush toilet) facility have to pay Rs 5, while urinals can be used free of charge. So while women are charged Rs 5 every time they visit, men have to pay only when they use the WC.
 
 “Though it's a  , men urinate by the roadside and get away with it. So how can it be fair that women have to pay for a basic facility like a toilet at a bus station? It should either be free, or both men and women should be charged an equal fee of Rs 2 or Rs 3,“ said Raeshma Bedi, a college student who uses BMTC buses at the Jayanagar Traffic and Transit Management Centre (TTMC).
 
 Haseena B, 35, a commuter at Shivajinagar station, shrugged off the bias as routine. “It has been like this -they take money from us and not from men. What can be done,“ she asked.
 
 The discrimination has not gone unnoticed by the authorities. Online petitions on Change.org and participants at   earlier this month have brought it to the fore. Gopalaya K, a retired employee who commutes by bus, believes the practice negates the idea of gender equality. “At Majestic bus stand, there is no check whether men use the urinal or the WC. I submitted a memorandum to BMTC officials at Janaspandana, and differential pricing is one of the key po ints I raised,“ said the resident of Vasanthpura.
 
 Attendants at Banashankari TTMC said since flush toilets were present alongside urinals in men's bathrooms, they ask a man which facility he has used, without having any way of verifying it.“We collect money from women before they enter. We wait for men to come out and charge them accordingly ,“ said an attendant.
 
 “Using the toilet to defecate requires extra cleaning and water so we are told to charge visitors,“ said Manoj and Vijay, who work at the complex in Shantinagar TTMC. Those manning the toilets have devised their own ways of de termining the price people should pay. Om Prakash, a worker at the Shivajinagar bus stand, said he charged women on the basis of time spent inside the toilet. Despite no signboards displaying the price, he charges women Rs 2 for short visits and Rs 5 for longer ones. Chandan Kumar, who manages one of the toilets at Shivajinagar, said he relies on the honesty of male users.
 
 At some bus depots, men are forced to pay for urinals too. Kumar B, an activist for sexual minorities, said he has often faced this problem while using toilets at Kalasipalya and Shantinagar. “I have been forced to pay Rs 10. Once when I refused to pay, they asked me to leave. Due to this, many people are forced to urinate outside the bus station, which sullies the surroundings,“ he said.
 
 Another citizen who was forced to pay filed a petition on Change.org, demanding that patrons be allowed to use the facility free of cost. “When I showed him (the attendant) the board, the person told me, 'We have pasted a sticker over Free. You must pay for using the urinal also'. When people refuse, the attendants are rude,“ reads his petition.
 
 
 
 
 While the money collected is supposed to go towards toilet maintenance, the fa cilities in Banashankari, Jayanagar and Vijayanagar are in a shoddy state, with visitors having to deal with clogged sinks, leaking taps and broken flushes. At the Jayanagar TTMC, the attendant continued to charge visitors though there was no power. The Shantinagar and Shivajinagar toilets, however, are well-maintained.
 
 
 
 
 Trees, walls or public toilets, it's a free ride for men; they can go wherever they wish. By contrast, women have to deal with the sheer unavailability of public toilets to paying money to use one, which is more often than not, filthy and stinky. Our public toilets are a classic case of gender bias prevalent in many spheres of life. And the government keeps this bias intact with its insensitivity. It is time to re-examine the logic behind the disparity, and make it an equal world. With public awareness growing, women can raise their voice higher and hope for a change soon.
 
