Steve Smith's   eye their maiden   crown as they meet tournament favourites   in a mouth-watering title clash in Hyderabad on Sunday. 

 
  takes a look at the teams' news and the players who can make their presence felt in the final.
 
 
 
 
 
 A new leader in   seems to have worked wonders for Pune, a side which finished seventh under MS Dhoni in 2016. Technically, the franchise will cease to exist on Monday but that hasn't dampened the spirits of the men who have primed themselves to go out with a bang. And when you have couple of World Cup winning captains in Smith and MS Dhoni - the jittery nerves could well be taken care of. Pune has relied heavily on individuals to get them this far. The final shouldn't be anything different.
 
 
 
 
 Unadkat has emerged Pune's lead bowler, claiming 22 wickets in 11 matches at an impressive economy rate of 7.24 in IPL-10. The Saurashtra spearhead has shown a lot of promise over the past few years, but it's only now that he has begun delivering, and the 25-year-old will be eager to destroy the Mumbai top-order in order to give Pune an edge in the all-important clash. However, he has to stay guarded against MI's experienced batting line-up.
 
 
 
 Manoj Tiwary and Washington Sundar: With Ben Stokes and Imran Tahir on national duties, Pune will mostly back Manoj Tiwary and Washington Sundar to come good in the summit clash. Sundar, the 17-year-old, has been called by Smith to bowl his off-spin in the powerplay and the Chennai lad has bowled with great deal of maturity. Tiwary is an intense character and is known to have a good sense of occasion.
 
 
 
 Pune have mostly relied on individual performances in the league stage, and that is a worry for some. With no heavyweight to bat in the middle overs and the lack of a quality spinner may hurt them on a big ground like Uppal against the big hitters from Mumbai.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 While Mumbai's batsmen led by skipper   have struggled to fire collectively on most occasions, the variety in their bowling has ensured they have stayed in the reckoning. Spinner Karn Sharma and fast bowler Jasprit Bumrah were outstanding against KKR on Friday, accounting for seven wickets between them. Off-spinner Harbhajan Singh may not be able to make it to the final XI today.
 
 
 
 The 29-year-old leg-spinner was instrumental in KKR collapsing for 107 in Qualifier 2 in Bengaluru on Friday, taking 4/16. He has claimed 13 wickets in eight matches and would be eager to spin a web around Pune's strong batting line up. Also, the experienced campaigner has recorded an economy rate of 7.35, which is outstanding in the shortest format. 
 
 
 
 Although skipper Rohit Sharma has struck three half centuries this season, he has largely been patchy. That has meant the India opener has only managed to score 309 runs in 15 innings. He would be eyeing a big one tonight. Also, paceman Lasith Malinga, who has been one of MI's most consistent performers over the years, would like to finish on a high.
 
 
 
 Mumbai's campaign has been dogged by inconsistency and that's something they would have to guard against. Also, they have lost to Pune thrice this season, which may end up playing on their mind. 
 
 
 A sweltering Sunday. That's what the weathermen predict for the final with the temperature hovering around the 43 degree mark.
 
 
 The pitch on offer for the final at the RGICS, Uppal is a belter. The match will be played on the same surface where Hyderabad and Bangalore got the tenth edition rolling. The hosts put on a sprightly 207. RCB, while chasing managed 172. 
 
 
