NASHIK: The Nashik Inc has started putting up hoardings of ‘Make in Nashik’ at major locations in Mumbai, on highways from Nashik to Mumbai and Pune, and also on the Mumbai-Pune expressway.

 So far 12 hoardings have been erected on the highways linking Nashik with Mumbai and Pune and few more would be put up in the next few days. 
 
 Harishankar Banerjee, president of the Nashik Industries & Manufacturers’ Association ( ) told TOI, “The idea is to make branding of the   event.”
 
 “We had a meeting with mayor Ranjana Bhansi about the ‘Make in Nashik’ event. We had requested permission to put up hoardings at some locations in the city. The   has given its approval for giving places of its hoardings at 18 locations across the city free of cost. Some corporators have also promised to put up hoardings in their prabhags,” said NIMA secretary  . 
 
 These hoardings give message about Make in Nashik event, its venue and the dates of the event. 
 
 So far, a dozen hoardings have been put up -- six at major locations in Mumbai, two on Nashik-Mumbai highway, three on Mumbai-Pune expressway and one on   highway. 
 
 “We are planning to put up 40 hoardings in Nashik,” said Suresh Mali, chairman of the information committee of Make in Nashik. “The mayor has given approval to put up hoardings at 18 places, but we have requested for at least 25.”
 
 “We are also planning advertising of the event on major electronic media. The objective is to make a branding of the event, highlight the   potential of Nashik and fetch large industrial investments to city,” Mali said. 
 
 Nashik could not attract large industrial projects in the past 15 years despite its investment potential. Nashik is at equidistance from Mumbai and Pune. After Mumbai and Pune crossing the saturation limits, Nashik has emerged as the next industrial destination and many industries are eyeing Nashik for investment. Hence, Nashik Inc is taking efforts to tap large investment for Nashik. 
 
 The chief minister has adopted the city and hence the Nashik Inc has hopes of getting a few large industrial projects.
 
