KOLKATA: Darjeeling’s loss may well turn into Bhutan or Nepal’s gain during the Pujas this year. With the situation in the Hills continuing to remain on the boil barely two-and-a-half months before the Pujas,   and the   are going the whole hog to woo the  . 

 The northeastern states, particularly Assam, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh, have also started attracting a larger number of tourists from Bengal. 
 
 “There is nothing wrong if we go the extra mile to attract tourists being forced to change their plans. This happens in this industry everywhere. One person’s loss is another’s gain. Nepal lost tourists in 2015 after the massive earthquake. People must have travelled elsewhere. Kashmir has lost tourists due to the violence there and states like Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand have taken advantage. We are certainly receiving many more queries this year for circuits like Kathmandu-Pokhara-Jomsom, Kathmandu-Pokhara-Chitwan. We are also offering the best deals possible,” a Nepal Tourism official said. 
 
 For budget tourists, operators are already exploring the possibility of making better use of road routes via Mal, Hasimara, Jaigaon and Phuentsholing towards Paro and Thimpu. “It will be a long vacation of nearly 10 days for many people during the Pujas this year. We are offering them the Himalayas and a pristine environment. Maybe, many tourists will prefer to move away from the traditional locations this year and explore new places. As it is, people have certainly become more adventurous and attempting activities that are not run of the mill. Earlier, people preferred to occupy chairs on beaches or sit at view points across mountain peaks and while away their time. Now, tourists are opting for treks and adventure sports, even with families,” said a Bhutan-based tour operator. 
 
 Debashis Chandra, group general manager (east), IRCTC, said there is also a rush for locations in north and west India. “People are opting for states like Rajasthan. Till last year, we would arrange 25-27 trips for groups of 25-30 people each to Darjeeling, Dooars and Sikkim. This year, people aren’t interested. They don’t even want to travel to Dooars or Sikkim,” he said.
 
