PUNE: The civic body claimed to have made the sub-fire brigade station on Pune-Saswad road in Kondhwa Budruk functional about a month after six workers died due to suffocation in a bakery fire on December 30, but the facility is yet to get a water tanker or telephone line. 

 The   (PMC) has provided the station, that was constructed over three years ago, with one fire tender instead of two and deputed 18 fire men to work at the station in three shifts, but failed to appoint a station duty officer. Besides, if citizens need to contact the   in case of an emergency, they'd have a tough time as there is no telephone line either.
 
 The fire station is supposed to cater to residents in Kondhwa, Khadi Machine chowk, Yevlewadi, Bopdeo ghat, Handewadi, Undri, Pisoli, Wadachiwadi, Katraj bypass, Mantarwadi and other fringe areas .
 
 The delay in inaugurating the fire brigade had snowballed into a major political controversy after the bakery fire on December 30. 
 
 The fire station was inaugurated twice by the   and the BJP before the model code of conduct came into force. The Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) took the issue as an opportunity to criticise Sena and BJP for inaugurating the facility hastily even though it had not become operational.
 
 Local residents had demanded that the station be made operational without further delay because, according to them, it takes considerably long for fire tenders from other places to reach in time to attend to fires at the Uruli Devachi garbage depot and other places. 
 
 The delay in inauguration was putting undue pressure on the fire station near   on Kondhwa Road. Work of installing street lights outside the fire station is also still in progress.
 
 The lack of a telephone line, however, is a matter of concern for firemen as the station cannot be reached directly. For instance, if a fire breaks out people call the central fire brigade control room number 101. The control room officials then alert firemen on their cell number and a fire tender rushes to the given spot.
 
 PMC chief fire officer Prashant Ranpise told TOI, "We have requested the administration to install telephone and provide a water tanker at the earliest. Appointing a station duty officer will take some time because of shortage of officers. For instance, we have 12 fire stations and 10 officers. The facility will be called Kondhwa fire station." 
 
 The fire station has attended to 15 calls of fire since January 30.
 
