CHADIGARH: Pandemonium marked the Haryana assembly on Thursday in the ongoing budget session over an MoU signed by the state government with yoga guru Ramdev’s Patanjali Yogpeeth for use of forest land in Morni area of Panchkula district.

 It started during question hour when   MLA from Kalka Latika Sharma asked tourism minister Ram Bilas Sharma about the government’s proposal to develop Morni area in her constituency into a tourist destination.   MLA Karan Singh Dalal intervened and said the government was giving land to Ramdev without following proper procedure for development of an herbal forest at Morni. Dalal said Ramdev was appointed as brand ambassador by the government for promotion of yoga and ayurveda and being extended undue benefit by the government by allotting costly land. He also said that the process to give land should have been transparent so that some other party having capacity to develop the forest as herbal forest could get a chance to participate in the allotment process.
 
 Responding to Dalal’s allegations, health minister Anil Vij clarified that Ramdev would only offer free consultation for the development of herbal forest in Morni area. He would neither take any financial or commercial benefit from the project nor would have any right of ownership over the land. “The MoU had been signed between the Haryana government and Patanjali Research Institute, Hardwar, for the development of this forest. The ownership and jurisdiction of the entire land of Morni will remain as such with the persons concerned or the forest department,” Vij clarified.
 
 Not satisfied with the reply, Congress MLAs started to walk out of the house. Then   and cooperation minister Manish Grover passed some remarks, which infuriated the Congress legislators. Some BJP legislators tried to justify by saying that Congress MLA Kuldeep Sharma had also made similar remarks against Vij in the house in the past. Following this, Kaithal MLA Randeep Singh Surjewala, CLP leader Kiran Choudhry, Sharma, Anand Singh Dangi, Karan Singh Dalal and Geeta Bhukkal rushed to the speaker in protest, seeking Grover’s apology.
 
 
