DEHRADUN: In a never unseen before situation, Monday saw two different protests in the   at the same time against state chief  . While party members from  , from where Upadhyay has replaced Aryendra Sharma as party candidate, shouted slogans on "Kishore wapas jao," a group of his supporters from Tehri who have decided to camp in   office till the time the state chief was named as candidate from his traditional seat of Tehri raised slogans of "Kishore wapas aao."

 A few minor altercations between the two groups were also reported on the day but timely intervention by the police force prevented them from transforming into a major clash. The supporters of Sharma have already torn all the flexes and posters featuring Upadhyay and Harish Rawat at the state headquarters.
 
 Narain Thakur, a block Congress president at Sahaspur and supporter of Sharma told TOI, "Sharma has been working in the constituency for the last five years and people want him as Congress nominee and he has got chance of winning the election." Thakur claimed that the high turnout of protestors was an indication of the public mood at Sahaspur. "When we are in a position to win elections, then why waste this golden opportunity by being involved in infighting. The party needs to field best candidate which is Sharma."
 
 Meanwhile a group of 50-odd senior party members from Tehri led by their district chief Suraj Rana have camped in the Congress office premises along with their blankets and mattresses. Rana pointed out that the entire district  , which is in favour of Upadhyay contesting from Tehri, after getting the news about him being fielded from Sahaspur has resigned from the party position.
 
 "Upadhyay is the most suited candidate from not only Congress but all parties from Tehri. He has initiated a string of development works in the district and is highly popular among the masses. People have high regards for him. We will continue our protest here till the time the party announces him as candidate from Tehri," added Rana.
 
