A five-figure salary, festival bonus, advance (whenever needed) and weekly offs – these are just the basics that ladies in Gurgaon list while on the lookout for "well-trained, good house help." Lately, there have been some additions to that list, to make sure they don’t just get a good maid, but also that she stays for a few years. Many   now offer a private room to the help with an air conditioner and an LCD TV with DTH services, to rest in, so that "maids don’t leave the job soon or ask for too much leave." Gurgaon businesswoman Thenny Mejia says, "I think providing private rooms to maids is humane, and if they ask for a TV, it’s only fair. They need their privacy, distraction and time off like anyone else, and they are here to provide a service, not to be treated like a third-class citizen. Those who work with diplomats and expats in Gurgaon are also provided with scooters and salaries over Rs18k, one month advance, festival bonuses, and AC accommodation for them and their family members."

 
 Even those who don't employ full-time or live-in maids are now keeping aside a room in the house where the maid can relax between her duties, especially if she stays long hours. It might also come with free access to wi-fi and other perks. Many   now agree to start working for you only if these facilities are provided.
 
  Keeping that in mind, many residents at locations like DLF Phase II and IV, Sector 31 (to name a few) have started making prior arrangements for prospective maids. 
 
 "We shifted to Gurgaon around a year ago from Pune, and my husband and I are both working and we needed a 12-hour maid. I thought since we are living in a locality where there is a maid in every home, we’ll get one easily. But it was tough. The first question was whether I'd give a room, and when I was curious to know why – since the maid wouldn’t be living with us – they told me, 'aap toh subah chale jaoge rooms ke taale laga ke, hum rest kahan karenge? Humein bhi apni personal space chahiye.' Since every room in my house has a TV and an air conditioner, I thought why not give her one, maybe that will help me get a good maid who works with us for a few years. For working women, it is a task to train a maid and then retain one, because there is no dearth of houses that need  . So to make my life easier, I converted the guest room to be maid’s room," says   Mehta, who lives in DLF Phase II and works as a software engineer in Cyber City.
 
  A few might have a private room with TV, but not an AC. "I have a room with a cooler instead of an AC, and an LCD with DTH connection for my maid. I've realised that this is the only way to retain them. Earlier, maids would just say, 'gaaon jana hai, maa beemar hai' and would not come back," says Raizy Bedi, a resident of DLF Phase II. Rani Jain, who lives in Magnolias, Golf Course Road, says, "I was looking for a maid for my daughter’s house in Sector 31, but most refused without being provided a private room and phone. There are ample options for maids in the city as some households require multiple maids."
 
  
  Theatre actress Kajal Rawat plays the role of a happy housemaid from Gurgaon for GT
 
 
 
  
 In case one is looking for a maid to stay in the house 24X7, the list of facilities is often expanded to give the maid a "home-like feeling." "I had given a private room to my maid and also a personal phone to her to speak to her family," says Nidhi Taneja, vice president, RWA, DLF phase II. 
 
  Shalini Jain, a resident of sector 27, tells us, "My maid was very fond of beauty treatments, and wearing nice clothes and accessories. Initially, when a beautician would visit me at home, I would ask her to do my maid’s threading to make her happy. I would also take her to the market to buy hair accessories and nail paints that she liked. She was 19 when she started working for me, and I always thought that like many other girls of her age, even she would want to look beautiful. Later, she requested if she could get a monthly salon service for waxing, threading, manicure and pedicure. I agreed as I didn’t want her to leave for such a small thing, as she was very good. She was also quite particular about the brand of shampoo and cream we gave her to use."
 
  Shruti Mittal, a resident of Raheja Atlantis, adds, "While it’s imperative to provide maids a room with AC a TV, some people have also started providing beauty treatment packages to maids, like nail art and regular threading and waxing. Some women who often travel with their maids want them to look prim and proper, so they don’t mind spending that money."
 
 
