 has never shied away from talking about her personal life as the actress says all her past relationships have given her good memories in some form or the other.
 
  
 
  
  Narayani, who is now married to Steven Graver (Tony), was previously in a long-term relationship with TV actor  , before calling it quits eight years ago.
  
  But their break-up did not affect their friendship as Narayani says they are still very much in touch and even her husband and Gaurav share a great bond with each other.
  
  "The good thing about Tony is that he's an easy person. I take my time to become friends. He understands what I need and where I stand with my fundas in life. He is more friends with my exes than I am.
  
  "I talk to Gaurav once in a month but they talk a lot and also hang out with each other. I'm cool with that," Narayani told PTI.
  
  After their split, Gaurav went on to date actress  . But the couple called time on their relationship in 2012.
  
  Post the break-up, there were reports claiming that Narayani was responsible for it.
  
  However, she says she doesn't understand why people don't realise that even actors are human beings and just like others, they also have a "personal life".
  
  "You go in a relationship with someone because you like a few things about that person and that's why you take it ahead. I have made it a point to not forget those good things. And that's why I'm friends with all my ex-boyfriends.
  
  "Me and Mouni are in touch still. I'm sure she's not in touch with Gaurav. But we (she and Mouni) are very good friends. I have known Mouni before Gaurav started dating her. I had told Gaurav about Mouni. People don't know this."
  
  Narayani says although she feels sometimes people just cross their limit and talk whatever they want to believe, it does not bother her anymore.
  
  "People don't understand that we're normal people. Two people may not get along for whatever reasons. But it doesn't bother me. I don't care."
  
  Narayani is one of the few actresses who has never been afraid to speak her mind and she says her nature often lands her in trouble with people.
  
  "I'm too idealistic. Sometimes my professionalism comes in the way. I'm one of those people who will not lie even if it hurts anyone. I'll just say the way it is. To become friends with a person me is difficult.
  
  "But then I do have those core people who like me for being the person I am. They can come to me for a reality check. They tolerate me and they love me for who I am. And I'm very comfortable with that. I don't have to pretend to be someone else."
  
  The actress will soon be seen on an upcoming show "Rishton Ka Chakravyuh" on Star Plus, in which she is playing Satrupa who comes from a royal family.
  
  Set amidst the royal backdrop, the show focuses on a rich industrial family residing at the majestic Lal Mahal, which is home to many conspiracies. It depicts the story of Satrupa, an authoritative woman and her daughter Anami.
  
  "Satrupa is completely different from what I have done before. She is sophisticated, elegant, well-sopken and at the same time very controlled. This is a love-hate story between a mother and a daughter and not a typical 'saas-bahu' show.
