Fasting is an important spiritual aspect of many religions. But, not eating when on antidiabetic medications or   can increase the risk of hypoglycemia (low blood glucose). A study found that people with   are at the higher risk of being hospitalized for hypoglycemia. This is applicable for both type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Several complications can arise from fasting in diabetic people such as:

 Hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia: Your blood sugar levels may fluctuate due to fasting. People may eat some sweet or fried preparation meant for fasting or may not eat at all, Due to this, you may experience low or high blood sugar levels during the fasting hours. Both these conditions are quite critical and may lead to coma and even death, if not addressed immediately.
 
 Dehydration and thrombosis: Fasting diabetes individuals are at a risk of getting dehydrated, particularly practicing fasts which prohibit them from fluid consumption. Moreover, your blood can become thick due to lack of fluid which increases the risk of blood clotting, known as thrombosis.
 
 Diabetic ketoacidosis: It is a dangerous medical complication where in the blood turns acidic resulting in severe dehydration, vomiting and coma.
 
 Ultimately, if you need to observe the fast, the most important thing is to fast do it smartly listen to your body. Know the signs and symptoms of hyperglycemia and hypoglycaemia and stop the fasting immediately if blood glucose level exceed 300 mg/dl or drop lower than 70 mg/dl.
 
 Do discuss with your doctor if you plan to fast. Now there are many medication available which don't cause "low blood sugar" & yet keep blood sugar controlled. Similarly if you are on insulin, your doctor can change your regimen according to your fast time and duration.
 
 Here learn some way to protect yourself while fasting. Learn the appropriate treatment for low or high blood sugar, including use of glucose tablets, glucose gels, or glucagon injections. Test your blood glucose level more frequently during the fast. Wear a Diabetes medical alert ID bracelet / I.D Card, keep emergency contact information where others can find it, and always consult your doctor or diabetes educator before doing anything that can affect your diabetes.
 
 Manage your meditations, mealtime, diet and blood sugar monitoring in such a manner that you can fast without putting your health in danger.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
