Sundar Shekar, the foster son of   don Haji Mastan recently sent a notice to  , asking him not to depict his father as a ‘smuggler and an underworld don’ in his upcoming film with Pa Ranjith. While Ranjith later denied to doing any such film, the controversy that was created at the mere mention of a movie being made on a gangster’s life shows the   the genre enjoys among audiences. 

 Gangster   have been one of the most enduring and popular genres in Tamil cinema. It began in 1954 with MGR’s ‘Malaikkallan’, a film that told the story of a Robin Hood type gangster. Story of the film was penned by Namakkal Ramalingam Pillai while the screenplay and dialogues were written by M Karunanidhi. Malaikkallan became the first ever Tamil film to win the President’s silver medal for best regional film at National Awards (1954).
 
 Rajinikanth set the trend for making films on the life of gangsters with ‘Billa’ (1980) and followed it with ‘Thee’ (1981), ‘Ranga’ (1982), ‘Baashha’ (1995) and recently ‘Kabali’ (2016). The films were named after Billa and Ranga, the most dreaded gangsters in 1978. Billa became a classic commercial and was remade with Ajith in 2007 followed by a prequel titled ‘Billa2’ in 2012. 
 
 The success of ‘Malaiyur Mambattiyan’ (1983), based on life of a tribal leader turned gangster, set a trend for films like ‘Komberi Mookkan’ (1984) and ‘Theechatti Govindan’ (1991) with Thyagarajan in the lead. ‘Karimedu Karuvayan’ (1986) starring Vijayakanth and ‘Seevalaperi Pandi’ (1994) featuring Napoleon were both based on the life of gangsters.
 
 In 1987 Mani Ratnam made ‘Nayakan’ based on the life of Bombay’s underworld don Varadaraja Mudaliar with Kamal Haasan. It was followed by ‘Thalapathi’ (1991) where Rajinikanth and Mammootty played the role of two gangster friends. The dreaded sandalwood smuggler Veerappan’s life was captured in films like ‘Captain Prabhakaran’ (1991) and ‘Vana Yudham’ (2013). 
 
 Other such noted Tamil films were ‘Amarkalam’ (1999), ‘Dheena’ (2001), ‘Gemini’ (2002), ‘Thotti Jaya’ (2005), ‘Arindhum Ariyamalum’ (2005), ‘Pudhupettai’ (2006), ‘Pokkiri’ (2007), ‘Bheema’ (2008), ‘Ratha Sarithiram’ (2010), ‘Aaranya Kaandam’ (2011), ‘Mankatha’ (2011), ‘Soodhu Kavvum’ (2013), ‘Jigarthanda’ (2014) and ‘Vedalam’ (2015).
 
 Underworld dons, thugs, and gangsters have always fascinated the audience and if a film is based on the life of a real gangster, it garners even more attention. Popular heroes are mostly cast in the lead as it helps the film to reach more people. Such movies have two formats. The first format presents the protagonist as a do-gooder who is forced to take the law in his hand due to circumstances. He is a Robin Hood figure — one who earns in millions, takes on other criminals and uses the ‘illegally’ earned money to help the poor. Films starting from MGR’s ‘Malaikkallan’, Kamal’s ‘Nayakan, Rajini’s ‘Baasha’ and ‘Kabali’ to Thyagarajan’s ‘Malaiyur Mambattiyan’ and ‘Theechatti Govindan’ followed this format. 
 
 In the other format the protagonist is a gangster who enjoys being one. Here, the audience is not shown the backstory of the protagonist. ‘Billa’ (1980) started this trend which was taken forward by films like ’Gemini’, ‘Mankatha’, ‘Soodhu Kavvum’, ‘Jigarthanda’ and ‘Vedalam’. 
 
 But what makes gangster heroes, despite their shades of grey, endearing to audiences? Dr Nappinnai Seran, consultant psychologist at Meenakshi Medical College Hospital and Research Institute says audience relate to the power wielded by the  . "Earlier we had a clear dichotomy between good and bad. Today, the concepts of good and bad are relative. What was bad earlier may not be bad today. This makes the gangster an acceptable character. Besides, every individual craves to be powerful. So, when the audience watch the hero bashing up a hundred people or jumping off high-rise buildings, they feel gratified and powerful," she says. It doesn’t matter that the hero is a gangster. What matters is that he is able to assert his superiority — an act the audience themselves want to do, she adds. 
 
 In South Indian film industry, the most challenging part for filmmakers while making movies based on real-life gangsters is in getting the approval of the concerned family. Even if families give their consent, they in return demand several changes to make the person larger than life and a do-gooder as it was demanded by Veerappan’s wife when ‘Vana Yudham’ was made on his life. Such additions made the film unrealistic and unsuccessful. This is why films inspired from the life of gangsters avoid any direct references to the concerned person. 
 
 Hiccups may be momentary, but the popularity of the genre promises to produce more such films in the future. 
 
 (The author is a two-time national award winning writer, film producer and founder-dean of BOFTA Film Institute)
 
 
