VISAKHAPATNAM:   authorities should be prompt in sending proposals for requirements such as medicines,   to ensure they are on the forefront in extending better   to poor people, said health minister  .

 The minister held a review meeting at the district collectorate on Tuesday with health officials of various government hospitals including King George Hospital (KGH), Victoria (Gosha) Hospital, ENT Hospital, Government Chest Hospital, Rani Chandramani Devi Hospital, Government Regional Eye Hospital (GREH) and Government Hospital for Mental Care (GHMC).
 
 He ordered the engineers of AP Medical Services Infrastructure Development Corporation (APMSIDC) to complete the construction works of the Rs 75 crore CSR super-specialty block at KGH at the earliest. He asked them to ensure that the building construction is compliant for housing radiation devices for the oncology department. According to him, one more additional unit for the cardiology department would be provided to KGH and the required doctors and staff would be posted. The health minister also ordered the director of medical education to ensure that there is no shortage of medicine in any hospital and especially for the GHMC as it’s the only state-run hospital in AP catering to the mentally-ill patients. He also asked the superintendent of GREH to submit the proposals for upgradation of the eye hospital.
 
 Further, the health minister ordered the director of   (VIMS) to provide space for ESI Hospital building in the premises of VIMS as the present ESI Hospital is in a dilapidated state.
 
 Health department officials were told to take measures to control maternal and infant mortality (IMR and MMR) in the Agency areas. To control pregnant mother and new-born deaths, the minister asked the medical staff to encourage institutional deliveries and to create awareness about the schemes for institutional deliveries. The central government is giving Rs 6,000 and the state government is giving kits worth Rs 1,000 to the patients for institutional deliveries.
 
 Besides the superintendents and doctors from various government hospital Vizag MP K Hari Babu, district collector Pravin Kumar, state medical and health department government officer Dr Jeetendra Sharma, DME Dr Subba Rao and principal health secretary Poonam Malakondaiah were present. 
 
