PATNA: Have you ever heard about a college or university teacher teaching English in   or Maithili? If not, visit a college or a university department in Bhojpur or   region in Bihar.

 In fact, some senior academics say their number has increased considerably with the deterioration in quality of teachers appointed in the state in recent times. In good old days, one could not even dream of a teacher of English talking in any other language in the classroom and even on the campus. But nowadays, students do not mind if they are taught English in Hindi or other local languages.
 
 Patna University (PU) English department head Shiva Jatan Thakur admitted that language teaching has certainly taken a back stage in the institutions of higher education following the appointment of less qualified people as teachers. “Even in PU, where English teachers are yet to take to Hindi medium, at least 50% teachers do not speak ‘proper’ English. Their accent and pronunciation are not up to the mark as they speak English in local accent. Teachers are supposed to be role models. Hence, students will automatically emulate them,” he said.
 
 It is interesting to note that the situation in other language courses in the universities is even worse as these courses are seldom taught in the same language. For instance, classical Indian language Sanskrit is not being taught in Sanskrit medium in all the institutions. In almost all the universities in the state, Sanskrit is taught in Hindi.
 
 Students write their examinations in Hindi both at undergraduate and postgraduate level.
 
 PU Sanskrit department teacher   said in pre-independence days, Sanskrit was taught in PU in English language. 
 
 Later on, teachers started teaching it in Hindi. In the early 1960s, then PU vice-chancellor   had directed the heads of language departments to teach in their respective languages. However, it did not work for long as neither the teachers were competent for this exercise nor were the students comfortable. Even at the national level, only two out of 100 research papers in Sanskrit are being presented in the language. Scholars prefer either Hindi or English to write their PhD thesis, he said.
 
 Courses in Arabic and Persian running in PU are also facing almost the similar situation. Both these language courses are taught in Urdu or Hindustani languages. PU Arabic department former head and   and Persian University’s former vice-chancellor S Zoha said Arabic is mostly taught in Urdu. Majority of Arabic students write their examinations at undergraduate and postgraduate level in Urdu. Some coming from West Bengal and Bangladesh write their answers in English and even submit their PhD thesis in English, he added.
 
