BHOPAL: Broadening its scope of inquiry in the  , CBI zeroed in on   on Wednesday and questioned some senior officials, including the registrar, over   in the 2012-13 academic session. 

 University sources said that the central agency suspects the involvement of some senior officials, who were employed with the university in 2012-13, in  .
 
 Last week, CBI had sent a letter seeking information from BU on eight points pertaining to admission process. BU registrar U N Shukla and two other officials were summoned by the investigating agency. Shukla wasn’t in BU when the alleged scam happened and joined the university only a month ago.
 
 University sources said that the officials were asked about every step in the admission process in 2012-13. “They were also asked about the correspondence between the university and private medical colleges,” added the source, adding that the BU officials were asked to provide the names and contact numbers of the officials who served in some senior posts that year. During the half-hour questioning, CBI tried to understand how certain students got admission, said a senior BU official on the condition of anonymity.
 
 Incidentally, an alleged admission to dental courses was also reported in the 2012-13 session at BU. It was alleged that answersheets of several examinees were written outside the exam hall in 2013. A senior professor was held accountable for irregularities and suspended.
 
 The CBI took over investigation into the ‘examination scam’ after more than 40 accused, beneficiaries, whistle-blowers and witnesses died mysteriously, triggering fears of a systematic attempt to scuttle the inquiry. The names of many top bureaucrats and politicians had cropped up in the probe.
 
 At least 2,800 people have been arrested and hundreds are wanted in the scandal with multiple rackets helping candidates manoeuvre the examinations for money, including employing impostors to write test papers, manipulating seating arrangements as well as supplying forged answersheets.
 
