KOLHAPUR: The disturbance in the animal migration corridors, rampant mining and land development projects in rural   have led to man-animal conflicts in the district and claimed two lives and  ,917 instances of crop damage in the last fiscal.

 Kolhapur boasts of national parks, a tiger reserve and wild life sanctuaries. Out of its total geographic area of 7,620 sq km, around 139.11 sq km, which account for 19.35% of the total, are under forest cover. But human intervention in these forest areas has resulted in the man-animal conflicts in the district.
 
 V Clement Ben, chief conservator of forests and director of the Sahyadri tiger project, told TOI that Kolhapur is located in the eco-sensitive and biological hotspot of the Western Ghats. 
 
 “Land development activities in Radhanagari, Aajra and   talukas have disturbed the migration corridor of the gaurs and elephants. Elephant is a vegetarian animal needs at least 18 hours for feeding. Kolhapur is full of grass crop, sugarcane and water bodies. An elephant gets enough food in single farm, but consumes just 1/3 of the field and destroys the remaining. The individual farmer has to pay a high price,” he said. 
 
 The officer explained that the National Forest Policy, 1988 changed the view towards elephants. With it, elephants camps were stopped and people freed the animals in the forest. Since then, they started migration towards northern   and finally in the Maharashtra via Goa. 
 
 After 2002, seven elephants made Chandgad, Aajra and Radhanagari talukas as their habitat and they are reluctant to go back on Karnataka due to abundance of food in form of the sugarcane here, the officer said.
 
 “We have suggested an alternative crop pattern to keep elephants out of farms. We have proposed cultivation of chilli crop to prevent damage from elephants. We have suggested farmers to change crop patterns to deal with the situation,” he said. The government has given out Rs 2 crore as compensation to farmers in Kolhapur for crop loss in animal attacks last year.
 
 Vivek Patil, a farmer in Here village of Chandgad taluka, said that he lost his entire banana crop due to an elephant attack last year. “They normally arrive normally between May and September. I only received Rs 12,000 compensation from the government against the actual losses of Rs 80,000. We have demanded solar fencing, digging of ditches around villages to prevent the entry of elephants. But hardly anything has been done,” he said. 
 
 Ben said that another native animal of the region, gaur or Indian bison, has been the cause of massive crop damage in Shahuwadi, Chandgad, Panhala, Aajara talukas in the district. “Gaur is native of Kolhapur district. The grassland where the gaurs inhabited have come under sugarcane cultivation in these talukas. Therefore, the gaurs enter the fields in search of their food,” he said. 
 
 Wildlife researcher Amol Jadhav said that increasing human intervention in migration corridors has resulted in to man-animal conflicts. “Karnataka, Goa, Aajra, Chandgad area is a known elephant migration corridor. They come here in search of food. Farmers have brought jungle land tracts along these corridors and started sugarcane cultivation. Sugarcane has become major source of food for elephants. We don’t have permanent solution on migration,” he said. 
 
 Officials said that the human deaths were reported in cases of attacks by gaurs or Indian bisons. The animal becomes very aggressive between the period of May to October to protect their young ones. “The animal would attack any person posing a threat to the newborns. Cattle herding in forest areas has encroached upon the natural grasslands of gaurs. Therefore, the incidents of crop damages have increased in past many years. Animal herding in forest areas has become major concern in case of gaur attacks, officials said. 
 
