LUCKNOW: The `Saiyaan' and `Kailasa' fame  , known for his Sufi style, has broken   with his soulful singing. Kher has sung the poll anthems for the Bharatiya Janata Party and   , besides rendering the theme song for the Agra-Lucknow Expressway--a frontrunner of the  's #KaamBoltaHai project.

 The song for BJP, for example, weaves in words and phrases that reflect the aspirations of the people of UP in the song `Ganga Ma ki lehron se; gaon gaon aur shehron se; aao mann ki baat karein; UP ke mann ki baat karein'.
 
 The song for Samajwadi Party goes `Chal palak jhapak bedhadak dhadak...chikni hai ab toh sadak sadak' to show how life of people in UP changed for the better because of the Agra-Lucknow Expressway .
 
 But BSP has scored over other parties launching an entire poll album. It includes the party's anthem that urges voters to support Behen Mayawati and ensure the party's victory . `Vote dene chal re bhaiya...Maya behan ka saath nibhakar...vote dene chal re bhaiya...' '.
 
 The singer said, “Many battles have been won thanks to cheering by singers. Prithvi Raj Chauhan used to take singers with him to keep forces motivated. In present times, elections are no less than a war and politicians are using music to reach out to their cadres.“
 
 Stating there was no dearth of scientific evidence to prove the energising impact of music on the nervous system, Kher said, “Music is a powerful instrument of communication. Many feelings that cannot be communicated with words can be conveyed easily through music. One effective example is the song from Raj Kapoor's film Teesri Kasam `Sajan re jhoot mat bolo... khuda ke paas jana hai', whose lyrics haunt as much as the tune and singing.“
 
 Seeing himself as the anthem singer of key political parties in UP is no more than a coincidence for Kher. Asked to comment on his personal preference, he said, “All parties have strengths and weaknesses but as a voter, I feel it is important to assess candidates who can work for one's local area. Only if people don't fall prey to the way candidates lure them can requisites of development be taken to the last man.“
 
 Talking about the politicians he has worked with, Kher said, “The CM is dynamic and full of energy . He is open to new ideas and is quick to act on them. Probably this is what most voters in UP relate to at the moment.“
 
 About Mayawati, he said, “My meeting with her was brief but she exudes confidence, is very observant and reflects clarity of thought.“
 
 About his expectations from politicians, he said, “Indian music is a world of treasure which is yet to get its due in its country while the rest of the world is having research to study its therapeutic characteristics. I wish UP gets a music university that is as big and important as an IIM or IIT.“
 
