Continuing with the new custom of observing food days for Indian cuisine, a group of foodies from all over the world are coming together to celebrate desi favourite comfort food this season — steaming cuppa chai with hot pakodas. And with diverse regional influences, there’s much to explore even here. The varieties available make a sumptuous spread to dig into and snack.
The group got together earlier this week to set the ball rolling and make foodies around the globe aware of the day. And like before, the response has been great with many sharing their plans of serving chai and pakodas or having potluck parties with friends. For Mumbaikars, food consultant  , who is the brain behind the concept of celebrating Indian food days, has planned a chai pakoda food trail around town. The group plans to stop at various places to savour pakodas and chai. Some restaurants are also participating by offering a pakoda on every chai ordered. Some foodies have specially created pakodas for the day, while some food bloggers have planned potluck parties. 
 If you are as passionate about your food, you can participate by using   online and follow the theme And if you want to try something new, here are some recipes from food experts.
  
  
 
 
 (These are spicy gram flour fritters and are a speciality from the village of Dakor in  . They taste best with  .)
 
  1 cup gram flour, ½ cup semolina, 1 tsp green chilli-ginger paste, 1 tsp cumin seeds, ½ tsp turmeric powder, ½ tsp garam masala powder, ½ tsp red chilli powder, 1 tsp fennel seeds, 1 tsp coriander seeds, 1 tbs sesame seeds, 1 tbs whole black peppercorns, ¼ tsp sodium bicarbonate, 2 tbsp sugar, ½ tsp citric acid crystals or 1 tsp lime juice, ½ cup water, 2 tbs chopped coriander leaves, salt to taste, 3 tbsp oil + extra for deep-frying
 
 
 
 
 
  2 cups milk, 1-2 lemongrass leaves, cut into segments, 10-12 mint leaves, 4 tsp sugar, ¼ tsp chai masala powder, 4 green cardamom pods, pounded, ½” piece of fresh ginger, coarsely crushed, 4 tsp tea leaves
 
 
 
 — Recipes by Rushina Munshaw Ghildiyal 
  
  
 
 
 (A   Muslim version of dal polae or bhajji, it derives its name from the cast iron pan called kaavil in which they are made. With tur dal being the main ingredient, the bhajji is flattened and shallow fried. You can try this with  , a Konkani Muslim version of black tea.)
 
 
 
  ½ cup tur dal, soaked overnight, 2 tbsp water, ½ tbsp garlic, finely chopped, ¼ tsp salt
 
  1/2 cup onions, chopped, ¼ cup fresh green coriander, finely chopped, 2 tsp red chilli powder, 2 tsp coriander powder, ¼ tsp turmeric powder, ¼ tsp cumin seed powder, ¼ tsp salt
 
  Oil (2 tbsp for each round of frying)
 
 
 
 Blend the dal and all the ingredients of the paste to make a coarse, grainy paste. Keep aside.
 
  Combine all ingredients for the batter, in a large mixing bowl and rigorously mix with hand. Add the dal paste to it and mix well. Keep aside.
 
  Heat oil in a pan on medium heat. Flatten out the batter in the pan itself to get a half centimeter thick, palm-sized fritter. Spoon roughly two tablespoons of the batter once the oil is hot. Fry each side until crisp and golden brown. Serve hot with tamarind-date chutney.
 
 
 
 (This is the Konkani Muslim version of tea sans milk. Specially made for breakfast, it can be consumed as a stimulating drink at any time of the day. No sugar is used, instead a person has to nibble on jaggery and then sip on the tea if he/she wishes a sweet taste to the tea.)
 
 1 cup water, ¼ tsp black tea leaves or tea powder, 3-4 shoots of lemon grass (without the bulb), few cubes of jaggery as accompaniment
 Method: Bring the water to a boil in a vessel. Add the tea leaves/powder and lemon grass shoots once the water starts boiling. Allow to simmer for just two minutes and put off the stove. Serve hot in cutting chai glasses with cubes of jaggery alongside.
 — Recipes by Saher Khanzada
 
 
 
