KOLKATA: A 16-year-old boy — a student of Hare School — became the latest victim of   on VIP Road on Thursday. What was worse, when the victim tried to lodge a police complaint, he was advised by the duty officer to lodge a complaint with the   union instead. It took a call to the   control room to make the senior officers intervene and register a case.

 According to Subhojit Ghosh — who is also a part-time worker with a BPO — he had boarded the auto from his Lake Town office around 5.45am on Thursday while returning to his   home in Baguiati. 
 
 “I have been doing this BPO job for the past two weeks. On Thursday, as soon as I boarded the auto, I realized that the driver was drunk. He kept swerving from one side to another and at Bangur, he suddenly drove into the service lane. I tried to warn the driver, but he brushed off my concern. After some time, he picked up a friend and the two of them began to speak in abusive language. I protested yet again, but this time he asked me to mind my business.
 
 “Ei garite break nei. Ami toke jomer bari niye jabo (There is no break in this vehicle. I will take you to hell),” he yelled back, claimed Ghosh.
 
 As the auto crossed Kestopur, Ghosh told the driver that he needed to get off. This again led to an angry outburst from the driver. But it was when the victim pulled out a Rs 50 note, that all hell broke loose. “He took a sudden turn back towards Ultadanga even as I was getting off. I kept hanging out of the auto and shouting for him to stop. When he did finally stop and a few passersby were approaching me, he pushed me on to the road and fled with the auto, even as his friend kept laughing all the way.
 
 The ordeal for the student, though, was far from over. “When I approached the duty officer at the Baguiati police station, he told me that the police could hardly regulate autos. He told me to go to the local stand and lodge a complaint with union leaders, who were the only ones authorized to cancel an auto licence. I finally called up 100 and since Bidhannagar CP Gyanwant Singh personally monitors it, they took me seriously. The traffic department co-ordinated with the Baguiati police and a case was finally lodged,” said Ghosh.
 
 Senior Bidhannagar officers said they will be monitoring the case. “We will look into the specific complaint. Do remember we did remove the Baguiati IC on Tuesday who served for just three and a half months here,” said a senior officer at   headquarters.
 
 
