NAGPUR: Citizens queuing up to make changes in, or obtain, their Aadhaar card at   seemed angry over the lack of proper facilities which resulted in delays.

 On Thursday, there was quite a commotion after a person jumped the line, reaching out to the person at the counter dealing with all the applicants single-handedly. The furious crowd raise an objection and appealed to the official to not waste their time by entertaining inquiries. The clerk then told them that it was the people’s responsibility to follow queue. 
 
 The spell of sweltering heat added to their woes as there were no coolers and just one ceiling fan in the middle of the hall, fruitless for the queue.
 
 Around 1:30pm, an annoyed  , who works for a catering service said, “I haven’t moved an inch ahead since past four hours. Why can’t they appoint more officials? It’s going to be lunchtime in a while now, which means more delay. I will lose Rs 300 for missing work today.”
 
 The crowd complained about no deployment of persons to manage the queue and keep a check of people trying to cut in line. Technician   said, “There are no counters for inquiry. People having minor doubts are straightaway entering the cabin, hindering the lone official’s job. There are many others who are jumping the line and facing no action.”
 
 A single line for both men and women is responsible for the mismanaged queue resulting chaos, stated businessman Ranjeet Gyanchandani. He said, “My turn comes between two women and it will be quite uncomfortable for them if I stand there and so I chose to step aside. There are many like me, away from the line but eyeing it. This is causing confusion.”
 
 Heena Hussain, a nursing mother, said, “One form consumes approximately 15 minutes, but the wait is unusually long and no seating arrangements too. There is absolutely no human value.”
 
 Gidwani also said that only 30 forms are distributed at the counters free of cost and rest have to be photocopied for Rs 3. He added, “The official told us that he usually cannot deal with more than 30 applications. They should put up a notice about it or give tokens, so that the 31st person goes back after knowing that he will not be considered that day.”
 
