BAREILLY: Infighting in the Samajwadi Party (SP) had spelled trouble for party cadres across ranks, be it veterans or newbie affiliates. For Mulayam loyalist and former Rajya Sabha MP Veerpal Singh Yadav, this family feud has scripted a lone do-or-die battle. When star campaigners of the party were seen hopping from one constituency to the other, it was not hard to miss how the former district president’s constituency Bithri Chainpur was left out in the itinerary of top leaders. Veerpal was a district president for more than 20 years before being replaced by  , an office bearer who moved up the ladder under his tutelage.
 
  Veerpal, who figured in the list of 38 candidates endorsed by Mulayam, is now doing round the clock public meetings and taking several short trips to blocks, booths and panchayats in his constituency in a bid to mobilize voters in his favour. His control centre is a sprawling election office at Chadpur village on the Bareilly-Badaun state highway. Two of his former confidants – former district general secretary Sanjeev Yadav and district president of the youth brigade Ashok Yadav – have been overlooking his campaign trail. “There are four blocks in the Bithri Chainpur constituency and three of these have presidents from our party. All of them have thrown their weights behind us. We also have the support of various other sections,” Sanjeev said.
  
  Veerpal will lock horns with   (BSP) member and two-time sitting MLA   and   ( ) contestant Rajesh Mishra alias Pappu Bhartaul.
  
  CM Akhilesh, in the meanwhile, has campaigned on all the seats in Bareilly except in Aonla, where Veerpal’s cousin and Badaun MP Dharmendra Yadav had addressed two public gatherings a week ago, and Bithri Chainpur. “The party can decide on campaigning in any form that they want to. Everything is welcome,” came the diplomatic reply of Veerpal.
  
  Subhlesh, on the other hand, said, “We sought requests for programmes of star campaigners in Bithri Chainpur seat but failed to receive any reply from Veerpal.”
  
  Party cadres, particularly in the Akhilesh camp, were however wary of saying it out loud that the veteran might witness a loss. “We might have our differences but it is a fact that he is the ‘Chanakya’ when it comes to politics. Many ‘Chandraguptas’ have fought and won under his guidance. We are convinced that he will retain his seat,” said district president Subhlesh.
