Demonetisation, going   and swipe machines were the terms that ruled the last two months of 2016. Cut to the first day of 2017, students have some smart resolutions in place to go completely cashless on college campuses. While the anna at  's (SPPU) iconic Adarsh   is gearing up to make all transactions online this year, forget waiting in long queues to pay your annual fees. 2017 says hello to plastic money on campus.

 
 
 Though most of the city college canteens are still mulling over introducing swipe machines, students have a smart solution.For any student of Symbiosis College of Arts and Commerce, SB Road, the NCC canteen is a second home. They frequent this place as much as they frequent the college canteen. And at a time when liquid cash is difficult to part with, they have started ordering food via food delivery apps, albeit sitting in the canteen. Vansh Chetnani, a Commerce student of the college, said, “There are canteens which do not have card or e-wallet system but they have tie-ups with food delivery apps.“ “We use the food delivery option while seated at the food joints, order online and get delivery by paying online! This trick is helping us enjoy food at our favourite canteens which were otherwise accepting only cash.“
 
 Some students have not explored too many options to go cashless, but after the appeal and considering convenience, are switching to various   options. Awantee Deshpande, an engineering student from College of Engineering, Pune said, “I will be adapting an ewallet for small transactions, reducing cash transactions at various places.“ For some like Devaki Purohit, a Commerce student, going cashless is effortless. “With the dawn of the new year, I plan to use digital cash. This in turn will make it mandatory for others to keep these advanced facilities available.“
 
 
 Serpentine queues in the last quarter of 2016 were all about ATMs. However, similar queues are often noticed on college campuses during fee and form submissions. So, 2017's academic year will be completely online. “We are getting information about various methods to go cashless on campus. We are looking into cashless fee collection which will be suitable for students. By the upcoming academic year, we will have it in place,“ said Manohar Chaskar, principal at Baburao Gholap College at Sangavi. The college will also train students on cashless transactions.
 
 Some colleges have already adapted cashless fee transactions. Ravindrasingh Pardeshi, principal, Fergusson College, said, “Since the last two years, we are accepting fees through cards and online transactions. We are informing students about these methods so that 100 per cent of our fee collection becomes online.“ Presently, the college receives more than half of its fees through these methods.
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
