GURUGRAM: The state government will soon acquire land for relocation of   toll plaza on the   expressway, chief minister   has announced. 

 Officials said they have already identified land near Pachgaon crossing in Bilaspur for shifting the toll plaza, which has been on the cards for some time now.
 
 “The land will be transferred to the   (NHAI) once it’s acquired by the state government,” Khattar told the media Tuesday, after a recent meeting with Union road transport and highways minister   in Delhi.
 
 It may be noted here Gadkari had last month announced that Kherki Daula toll plaza will be moved 8km further towards Jaipur from its current location and requested the state government to provide land to relocate it to Bilaspur.
 
 During the meeting, Khattar and Gadkari held talks on 25 different points, including the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal expressway, Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal expressway, state highways, bypasses and other projects. Out of the development works worth Rs 35,000 crore approved for the state, work on maximum projects have started, the CM said.
 
 Anand Mohan Sharan, principal secretary of the urban local bodies department, who was part of the meeting, told TOI on Wednesday, “We had discussed the shifting of the toll plaza further ahead. The land where the new toll plaza will be built has not been given to the NHAI. One of the major reasons for this delay is that a major portion of the land belongs to panchayats and it has to be acquired. The state government is working on getting the land.”
 
 However, S Raghuraman, CEO of Millennium City Expressway Private Limited (MCEPL), the highway concessionaire, said, “There is no delay from our end. The moment NHAI will get this land, we will start work on the toll plaza. We are currently carrying out a survey on the feasibility of the toll plaza.”
 
 Industrialists have welcomed this move, saying the toll plaza has become a major bottleneck on the 27.7km expressway.
 
 VP Bajaj, president of Gurgaon Industrial Association, said, “This is a welcome decision. The toll plaza should have been shifted few months back, but because of some government formalities to identify land, this project has been delayed.”
 
 “There are many traders who go to Manesar daily from Gurgaon. Apparently, they face massive traffic jams caused due to Kherki Daula toll plaza. Now, with this toll plaza moving from its present location, it will greatly ease traffic on this route. More industrialists will travel freely from Gurgaon to Manesar or even further, resulting in better trade deals.”
 
