AHMEDABAD / PALANPUR: The death toll in rain-related incidents reached 83 with nine more deaths reported in   on Tuesday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the state and announced a relief package of Rs 500 crore for the flood-affected districts. He also declared ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh to the next of kin of the deceased, and Rs 50,000 to those seriously injured in the floods.

 Modi conducted an aerial survey of flood-ravaged areas of north Gujarat where the authorities have shifted more than 36,000 people to safety and rescued more than 1,600 with the help of Indian Army, Indian Air Force and the   personnel since Monday.
 
 The heavy inflow from Rajasthan, coupled with incessant rains since Friday, severely affected road and rail transport in the state. While at least 20 trains on the Mumbai-Delhi route were affected, with 11 of them cancelled due to railway tracks being washed off near Palanpur, 915 buses originating from Himmatnagar, Palanpur, Mehsana, Ahmedabad and Patan were cancelled as major roads connecting north Gujarat were either damaged or inundated. The overall loss to the transport sector is estimated to be over Rs 6 crore per day, while the railways have been suffering a daily loss of Rs 5 crore.
 
 “Ten more helicopters will be pressed into rescue and relief operations from Wednesday to expedite the pace of relief,” the PM said at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International airport on Tuesday night after the aerial survey. Modi was earlier given an overview of the extent of damage caused by floods and relief operations undertaken by chief minister Vijay Rupani, deputy CM Nitin Patel and top state officials, in a meeting at the airport.
 
  
  
 
 
 “A central team will shortly visit flood-affected rural and urban areas of Gujarat to assess damage to public and private infrastructure. We will transform this calamity into an opportunity and prepare a new redevelopment blueprint for flood-battered areas,” the PM said. Modi said insurance companies, including those dealing with crop insurance, may be advised to organise assessment of damage to assets and crops, and take steps for early settlement of claims. The PM also called for immediate restoration of water supply, electricity and communication links.
 
 At least four helicopters of the IAF are currently engaged in rescue operations, while over five lakh food packets have been distributed by the district administrations in Banaskantha, Patan, Sabarkantha and Mehsana districts.
 
 Banaskantha collector Dilip Kumar Rana said though the rains had subsided on Tuesday, the Dantiwada and Sipu dams in the district continued to overflow, following heavy rainfall in Mount Abu in Rajasthan. “We are releasing 1 lakh cusecs of water each from both the dams, which has resulted in the overflowing of the Banas river. Unless the inflow from Rajasthan decreases there will be little respite for Banaskanthana and Patan districts,” Rana said.
 
 Rana said over 750 people were rescued on Tuesday from Banaskantha district. Electricity has been restored in nearly 50% of the 150 affected villages in the district. Torrential rains also affected 30% of the sown cotton and groundnut crop in the state.
 
