IMPHAL: Paying no heed to Union home minister  's clarification on the NSCN (I-M)-Centre framework agreement, volunteers of the agitating All Manipur Students' Union (Amsu) and Meira Paibi (women's vigil group) leaders on Wednesday stormed the Raj Bhavan, demanding details of the deal. 

 Various political parties have now joined the chorus.
 
 During his poll rallies to garner BJP votes in Imphal on last, Rajnath had said the Centre and BJP will not compromise on Manipur's territorial integrity and the framework agreement doesn't have any clause which would do so. 
 
 Chief minister  , who is eyeing a fourth consecutive term in the coming polls, said no force can break Manipur's unity and integrity as long as the people are united.
 
 Taking a dig at BJP's tall claim that it has the capability to end the ongoing   (UNC)-sponsored economic blockade within two days if he were to s, Ibobi said this shows that the saffron party has a nexus with UNC and NSCN (I-M). "They (BJP) will never succeed if they indulge in this kind of politics," the CM said while addressing an election meeting for Congress candidate Fazur Rahim at Wabagai on Wednesday.
 
 Around noon, a large number of Amsu volunteers and Meira Paibi leaders abortively attempted to storm the high-security Raj Bhavan. Later, two Amsu and five Meira Paibi leaders were allowed to meet governor Najma Heptulla.
 
 At the meeting, the agitators urged her to ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President   to reveal the contents of the framework agreement to the people of the state. The governor asked them to submit a memorandum to which they agreed. It may be mentioned here that people are anxiously waiting to hear Modi speak on the framework agreement during his scheduled poll rally in Imphal on Saturday.
 
 Deputy CM and Naga leader Gaikhangam had blamed the Centre for not giving the details of the framework agreement signed between the NSCN (I-M) and the Centre. The prolonged silence over the issue has amplified people's apprehension that Manipur's territorial integrity may be comprised, considering NSCN (I-M)'s key agenda of integrating Naga areas under one single geographical and administrative entity.
 
