KOLHAPUR: Ever wondered where the decorative earthen pots piled up at markets in Pune, Satara, Sangli come from? 

 Warnul village, about 35 km from here, has been catering to the   from  . With the rising temperature this summer, the demand for its special clay pots has almost doubled already. 
 
 The 50 families living in the village in Panhala taluka sculpt at least one lakh pots every year and register a turnover of around Rs 50 lakh from the business. The orders for the pots are placed as early as December. 
 
 Bhimrao Kumbhar, who is in his sixties, is busy is giving shape to the raw clay mixture used for making pots. "I inherited the pot-making art from my parents and grand parents. Our water coolants are popular due to the unique process involved in making them," he said. 
 
 Clay, which is thick and has some oily elements, is found in abundance along the river in the village. This is carefully collected and mixed with dried horse dung and soil. A thick paste is prepared by grinding the mixture with feet. 
 
 "Lumps of the thick paste are then put in a machine to mould them as pots. Then, the mould is given its final rounded shape by hand. When the pot is put in a natural oven, the dried horse dung automatically gets burnt and creates pores on the surface. The pores allow air to pass through and keep the water cool," he explained. 
 
 Bhimrao notes that the demand for the clay pots has been increasing over the past few years as citizens look for eco-friendly and traditional ways to keep water cool. "We have to process one pot at least 50 times before it gets ready for sale," he said. 
 
 Navnath Kumbhar, who was busy shaping the pots outside his house, said the clay pots have gained popularity in past many years due to their natural cooling ability. 
 
 "Our parents used to sell them only in nearby villages and Kolhapur. Now, the picture has changed. Traders from Satara, Sangli, Pune, Pandharpur, Solapur, Ratnagiri, Chiplun, Mahad, Panvel and Mumbi come here to buy clay pots. Clay pot making is good business in our village and provides work to around 300 people in 50 families," he said. 
 
 The potters sell the coolants at the rate of around Rs 30 to Rs 40 each to traders. In the retail markets in cities, the same earthen ware is sold at Rs 100.
 
 Vinayak Kumbhar, a trader from Baramati, said the Warnul clay pots have great demand from Pimpri Chinchwad, Urali Kanchan and Jejuri in Pune district. "The consumers particularly demand for the Warnul Math (pots). These pots have an impeccable quality of keeping water cool in any environment. They are considered better than the pots from Khanapur (Sangli) and Belgavi (Karnataka)," he said. 
 
 Interestingly, the potters still follow centuries-old barter system in their trade with villagers from adjoining areas. Villagers offer rice and other agriculture produce in exchange of the pots in summer and Ganesh idols during the ten-day Ganapati festival. 
 
  said, "We still follow the barter system. We have long been connected with these villages. We exchange our vessels with their produce. People in villages have kept the system alive since ages."
 
 Despite the thriving business, the younger generation is not likely to keep the trade and art alive. Octogenarian Tai Kumhar does not want her grandson in their traditional business. "The situation has changed. They should find jobs and settled down with stable jobs rather than this seasonal business," she said. 
 
 She explained that in her youth, she would travel to Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli in a bullock cart carrying clay pots every summer. "People from our community have been suffering from spinal cord problems due to this work. There is constant work, but no guarantee of fixed income. This makes the business a huge risk as well. I don't want my grandchildren to dump their life in clay," she said. 
 
 There are some though, who are looking toward the state government to offer some financial aid to help the trade survive. Arjun Kumbhar compares their situation with their counterparts in Karnataka district. 
 
 "The Karnataka government has provided subsidy on the clay machine and helped build shelters for potters to work in any season. We don't have such facility. The government should provide subsidy for creation of such permanent shelters, offer us government land in village for clay and subsidise power bills. It wound big push for the stability of this traditional business," he said. 
 
