HYDERABAD: Students at the   (UoH) erected a concrete "Kargil memorial" in violation of varsity rules on Friday, hours after the administration said they tried to remove a similar temporary structure from the spot. 

 The act however triggered fresh protests on campus as supporters of the   ( ), after erecting the permanent 'memorial' resembling New Delhi's Amar Jyoti, marched on campus. Holding placards and candles, dozens of angry students raised slogans against authorities and said they would protect the new memorial at any cost.
 
 On July 26, ABVP members observed Kargil Divas at the shopping complex junction where they installed a temporary memorial to commemorate the martyrs. The temporary memorial was installed in the same vicinity where the Rohith  's stupa was established by the  , months after the research scholar committed suicide on campus in January 2016. 
 
 Some student groups on campus want the Vemula bust removed and have threatened to erect other similar structures otherwise in the past. Tension between University of Hyderabad (UoH) and students owing alegience to ABVP went up through the day as the students were insistent that they pay tribute to the Kargil martyrs by putting up a memorial for Kargil victims.
 
 Learning upon the new memorial, a gun and helmet stupa, on Thursday evening, university security officials tried to remove it, triggering outrage among ABVP members. “When the memorials of   can be allowed at JNU, why can't we have a memorial for those who sacrificed their lives for our nation,“ said Gosala Raju, convenor of ABVP at UoH.
 
 The university's efforts to hold discussions with students failed to yield any result, following which 15 police personnel were called in who advised students not to install such structures without permission from authorities. Angry at the administration's attempt to remove the temporary structure, the students inaugurated a permanent structure on Friday evening in defiance of the University authorities without seeking a formal permission.
 
 Students raised slogans such as “Bharat Mata ki Jai“ and said the memorial was established to pay tribute to martyrs. “The administration's attempt to remove it hurt sentiments of those who believe in the cause,“ said Karan Palsaniya, national executive council member of ABVP, who was also former president of the ABVP wing in UoH. The students' group alleged that the University authorities were “intolerant to patriotism''.
 
 As the situation turned tense, the university beefed up security and decided to initiate strict disciplinary action as per the rules. "The university is of the view that we should not set a precedent by allowing one student group to install permanent structures, no matter how appropriate their cause may be. The university is taking a serious view of such activities and will initiate a dialogue with all student groups to desist from such actions," read a statement issued by the university. "The university did not permit any student organisations employees to install any kind of installations inside the campus," it read.
 
 It may be recalled that the university had issued guidelines in April last year which clearly restricted students from installing any memorials on campus. In April last year, the university had circulated a document instruc ted deans to remove “unauthorised structures“ on campus.
 
 Congress party spokesperson M Krishnak said, "ABVP's agenda is clear from day one. They want the Rohit Vemula stupa to be removed by erecting the Kargil memorial. They cannot force patriotism by installing such structures".
 
