HYDERABAD: The KCR government on Monday gave impetus to the most developed area in Telangana - Hyderabad by earmarking Rs 976 crore to Greater Hyderabad Minicipal Corporation (GHMC), an indication that the government is serious in making the state capital a happening place in terms of infrastructure. 

 The civic body will now be able to take up key infrastructure and development works in the city. There is a mandate to fix battered roads with an allocation of Rs 377 crore out of total amount to improve roads in Greater Hyderabad.
 
 The GHMC has been facing a financial crisis for the past couple of years and was waiting for a helping hand from the government for taking up various projects such as Strategic Road Development Project (SRDP) and two bed room housing project. Just these two programmes alone require nearly Rs 3,500 crore. The balance amount will be raised through municipal bonds and taking rupee-term loans from financial institutions. "The process has already been initiated," GHMC commissioner B Janardhan Reddy told TOI.
 
 GHMC officials said the previous highest allocation made for GHMC was Rs 173 crore in the 2013-14 budget with bulk of the funds allotted to the Charminar Pedestrianisation Project (CPP) and Multi Modal Transport System (MMTS) with the two getting Rs 25 crore and Rs 143 crore respectively from non-plan grants such as professional tax compensation, motor vehicle tax and property tax on government buildings. In 2016-17 budget, the government provided only Rs 70 crore to the civic body.
 
 For 2017-18, GHMC sought Rs 2,018 crore for improvement of roads in its jurisdiction (Rs 500 crore), Rs 300 crore for construction of drains and Rs 353 crore for two bed room housing project. But the government, which has given Rs 5,599 crore to municipal administration department, earmarked funds for improvement roads but did not sanction any amount for improvement of drains.
 
 Surprisingly, Rs 377 crore has been earmarked for Musi Riverfront development which GHMC did not seek. 
 
 The GHMC is also expecting Rs 25 crore from forest department under Haritha Haram scheme. Since no funds were allocated for storm water drain improvement, the government indicated that the Telangana State Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation (TSUIDC) would take up works relating to improvement of drains in the city. 
 
 Mayor Bonthu Rammohan and GHMC commissioner B Janardhan Reddy said they were happy with the highest allocation yet to GHMC which would help making Hyderabad a global city.
 
 The Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA), which is also in financial doldrums, was not extended any helping hand in the budget. 
 
 The state government also announced Rs 300 crore to Warangal Municipal Corporation and Rs 400 crore to other municipal corporations such as Karimnagar, Nizamabad and Khammam municipal corporations.
 
 
