Mumbai: Shareholder advisory firm   believes   has given away more in forging the $23-billion merger with smaller rival  , thereby short-changing the shareholders of the London-listed telecom giant. 

 The merger deal creating India’s largest telco is based on the premise of equal partnership, though Vodafone will hold considerably bigger ownership in initial years. In allowing an equal relationship, Vodafone should have commanded a premium and better quality of control. But the deal contours considerably favour Idea Cellular, IiAS said in a report. Interestingly, this argument comes even as the Idea Celluar share price was battere,d suggesting that the company’s public shareholders were unhappy with the deal construct. Idea share price fell almost 20% after the announcement.
 
 IiAS said Vodafone shareholders should be concerned that they drew the short straw. In ceding most of its rights, Vodafone has stayed true to its tagline: “Power to you”, but while this is good for its customers, it is not good for its own shareholders, it added. The British telecom major has been generous in other ways too. Vodafone has allowed the Idea promoter   a three-year period (‘standstill’ period), to equalise the equity stake. During the ‘standstill period’, until equalisation is achieved, voting rights of the additional shares held by Vodafone will be restricted. While this may be conducive to a harmonious merger, it has short-changed Vodafone’s shareholders of their voting rights, the report added.
 
 Vodafone has also granted a call option on 9.5% of its equity without any premium. The Aditya Birla Group can, within the next three years, acquire from Vodafone up to 9.5% of the combined entity’s shares at a pre-determined value of Rs 130. In case Birla does not acquire this equity, Vodafone will be compelled to sell down its equity stake till it equalises. Therefore, if the price is not attractive, the Birla group will not exercise its option to purchase equity, and Vodafone would have lost the opportunity to encash its holdings.
 
 However, other shareholder activists are not in agreement. The deal is a huge respite for Vodafone shareholders, Shriram Subramanian, Founder and MD   told TOI, adding the merger is a way out for Vodafone, which has written off $9 billion and is embroiled in a vexing tax dispute with Indian government.
 
 He said the fact that one of India’s biggest conglomerates and Idea promoter, Aditya Birla Group, is reposing faith in the combined company and enhancing their stake by 4.9%, should be comforting to all shareholders.
 
 The deal is positive for both the companies and their shareholders as cut-throat competition was hurting both companies. Now with one player less and that too becoming a dominant player, pricing power will shift to the combined entity in the long run, says JN Gupta MD Stakeholders Empowerment Services, a corporate governance advisory firm.
 
 
