NAGPUR: The field offices of income tax department have sought a clarification from the   (CBDT) on whether benami accounts can be included for disclosure under Prime Minister   (PMGKY).   has also been asked whether those declaring such funds can get immunity from the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act.

 Under the PMGKY, only unaccounted cash and deposits can be disclosed before tax authorities. It is not open for other unaccounted assets. However, the wording of the scheme says ‘any deposits’. Now the question is, if this meant benami deposits too, which are funds parked at a bank in other’s name.
 
 Even deposits in one’s own name can remain undisclosed. The common method is to deposit cash barely below Rs50,000 in such accounts, so that the permanent account number (PAN) need not be quoted. Not quoting PAN keeps it out of the tax scanner and need not be shown in the books.
 
 Sources said there were queries during interactions with tax practitioners on whether benami deposits can also be disclosed. This meant that if X has parked the money in Y’s account, a clarification was needed if X could disclose that it was his money in Y’s account. At present, there is a fear that if such disclosure is made, it may lead to action under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act.
 
 However, at present, there is no bar on the holder of a benami account disclosing the funds. This means if X has opened an account in Y’s name to park his funds, Y can still go ahead and disclose the amount without mentioning the source.
 
 But if X discloses that it is his money in Y’s account, then to bring back the money into X’s legitimate account, valid accounting entires are needed. This may lead to questioning about Y’s own source of funds, ultimately leading to action under the Benami Act. Considering this factor, a clarification is being sought from the CBDT, said a source related to the issues.
 
 The scheme, under its present form, does not specifically bar declaration of benami deposits. Though it says that persons already prosecuted under the Benami Act cannot avail of this scheme. The bar is only for those already being prosecuted. 
 
 Tax practitioners are wary of advising their clients to go ahead with such declarations.  , a chartered accountant, said under the present scheme only deposits in the original name can be disclosed. If benami deposits are disclosed, it may lead to action under the relevant law.
 
 
