Madurai: People’s Movement for   in Madurai, an umbrella body of industrial associations in southern Tamil Nadu which came together to bring the premier medical facility to the district, has announced that they will escalate their protest soon. This time, the association has threatened to stage their protest in Chennai.

 Earlier, on March 13 the association had staged a protest in the city urging the state and the Union governments to set up the institute of national importance in Madurai. 
 
 Meanwhile, the association has got replies to a set of questions from the Union   under Right to Information act. To a question related to the status of the project awarded for Tamil Nadu in the 2014-15 union budget, the ministry has said that it is the Tamil Nadu government which has to take a call. It said that challenge method - selection process based on merits of the place using various factors as parameters - will be used to shortlist the location. “Government of Tamil Nadu has been requested to assess the sites offered/proposed and identify three to four locations for setting up AIIMS in Tamil Nadu on the basis of criteria under challenge method,” the reply stated. 
 
 V S Manimaran, past president of The Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (MADITSSIA), also the organiser of the movement, said that they will take the protest to Chennai. They have planned to stage the protest next month at Chepauk and the efforts to take the required permission were already on. He said that Tamil Nadu government was creating undue delay in providing the details sought by the Union government so far. 
 
 Reiterating their stand that Madurai was the most suitable place in terms of various factors including connectivity and number of people to benefit, he said the state government should support them. 
 
 He also said that they had met various people including union minister for health and family welfare J P Nadda, minister of state for commerce and industry Nirmala Sitharaman and chief minister Edapadi K Palaniswami to press their demand.
 
  But the meeting with the chief minister failed to yield any commitment from him on the demand, he said 
 
 
