BENGALURU: The   leadership has made it clear to the   unit that neither state president   nor legislative council opposition leader   will decide on matters related to the party and forthcoming state elections.
 
  The BJP leadership cracked the whip after receiving a report on the factional feud from party in-charge of the state, Muralidhar Rao.
  
  “The central leadership will rap both leaders for their public spat that could harm the party’s prospects in the   in Karnataka in 2018. The leadership will make it clear that it will decide candidates, constituencies, election strategy and issues. Yeddyurappa and anyone opposing him will have to fall in line,” a senior BJP leader with strong links to the   told ET.
  
  The central leadership is also likely to rein in BJP joint general secretary (organisation) BL Santosh, whom Yeddyurappa has accused of instigating public statements against him.
  
  “Santosh may have had a hand in the matter, as several of his supporters are backing Eshwarappa in the anti-Yeddyurappa fight. He will also be asked to lie low. He may even be moved to handle another region like northeast, instead of the south,” the leader said.
  
  The BJP state executive committee will meet on May 6 and 7 in Mysuru. Yeddyurappa and other dissenting leaders are expected to attend the meeting.
  
  “The party is very clear that Yeddyurappa will be the CM after the 2018 elections, as we cannot afford to anger his Lingayat community. But we will take into account that there is anger about the people in his immediate circle and have to ensure that they do not control the party,” the leader said.
  
  The BJP leadership may apply the New Delhi municipal election rule and replace MLAs and candidates who lost last time with fresh faces for most of the 224 assembly constituencies. The party has 44 MLAs at present.
  
  “We are looking at the ground and we feel that BJP may even win about 170 of the constituencies if we do our calculations right,” another senior leader said. 
