HYDERABAD: The state government on Monday issued orders notifying the constitution of the Telangana   that will monitor and evaluate the implementation of the National Food Security Act, 2013. It will be a quasi-judicial authority headed by a chairperson, a member-secretary and five members, including two women, one each from SC/ST community.

  ex-officio principal secretary C V Anand issued the orders on Monday . “Soon, we will also be constituting a high-level three-member committee to search the eligible candidates to occupy the coveted posts of chairman and others on the State Food Commission. Orders would also be issued explaining the rules of the Commission and an agency would be appointed to conduct audit of FPS shops and its performance on PDS front,“ he told TOI.
 
 It may be mentioned here that that though several sta te governments, including Telangana, had earlier issued orders constituting the State Food Commission, its responsibility was given to Consumer Redressal Commission, following which several NGOs went to court and the apex court directed that it should be an independent quasi-judicial authority. In tune with the Supreme Court directions to set up such a commission before April 26, the   notified its constitution on Monday . The State Commission will either suo motu or on receipt of complaint inquire into violations of entitlements provided under the Act.
 
 It will give advice to the state government, its agencies, autonomous bodies as well as NGOs on effective implementation of the Act and delivery of relevant services, for the effective implementation of food and nutrition related schemes, to enable individuals to fully access their entitlements specified in the Act.
 
 Besides, the panel can hear appeals against orders of the district grievance redressal officer and prepare annual reports which will be laid before the state legislature. The commission will also have the power to forward any case to a magistrate having jurisdiction.
 
 The government has designated the district rural development officer as district grievance redressal officer (DGRO) for each district. Any complainant or the officer or authority against whom any order has been passed by the  , who is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance, may file an appeal against such order before the commission within 30 days from the receipt of the order.
 
 
