AMARKANTAK: Amarkantak, the origin of River Narmada, has witnessed a complete makeover in the past month. The city is decorated from end to end. There’s festivity in the air. And no one here has ever seen so many policemen.

 A force of 5,000 cops policemen from different corners of the state has been stationed in Amarkantak for the concluding ceremony of   in the presence of Prime Minister   and Madhya Pradesh chief minister   on Monday.
 
 Beatification and road construction continued till late in the night on Sunday for the mega event that will bring down the curtain on a unique mission that touched crores of lives in 16 districts of the state and generated much-needed awareness about conserving the holy river and environment. A hundred sanitary workers are on their toes. This small town is under widespread CCTV surveillance.
 
 Checking of vehicles starts 50km ahead of Amarkantak. Vehicles are searched and people moving towards Amarkantak are made to register. There are checkpoints on all roads leading to Amarkantak. 
 
 At the venue for Monday’s ceremony, there are baggage scanners, bomb disposal squads and metal detector gates all around. Some 5 lakh people are expected although the state has assured the NGT that only 1.5 lakh will attend. Five hundred temporary toilets have been built for them. Plastic bags and polythene have been banned at the site and dust bins are in place in every few metres to avoid pollution of River Narmada, officials added. Some 30 control centres have been set up on the streets connecting Amarkantak to manage the crowd.
 
 The townspeople are in awe of what’s happening around them. “The Prime Minister is coming,” said a goggle-eyed Chunnu, who runs a puncture repair shop nearby.
 
 A new carpet is being laid out at Narmada Temple for the big day, said a priest, Narendra Dwivedi. “We keep the temple clean, but the beautification outside is for the concluding ceremony of Narmada Seva Yatra,” the priest added.
 
 The tent and other material at the venue have been transported all the way from Bhopal. “We have been working on site for the past month,” said a tent boy, Rahul.
 
