KOLKATA/NEW DELHI: Chief minister   raised the "non-cooperation" pitch against the Centre, citing Darjeeling as a case in point. Mamata complained that the Centre has been sitting on the state's request for additional forces in the Hills. 

 Union minister  , on the other hand, took on the state government over the  , saying that the state government didn't want additional forces for Basirhat. The blame game went on, but interestingly, while the state focused on Darjeeling, the Centre talked about Basirhat. 
 
 "It has been a month since trouble broke out in the Hills on June 8. State power department offices, fire stations are being torched. Protesters are snapping drinking water lines. We have been asking for additional central forces. But the Centre is sitting on the requisition. I am grateful to Calcutta high court that it took cognizance of our prayer and directed the Centre and state to sit together and facilitate force deployment. In the meantime, I spoke to the Union home minister at least six times over the deployment. Now the Centre wants a state official to go to Delhi and sit with the MHA before it takes the call. This is a clear case of non-cooperation that goes against our federal structure," the CM said. While saying this, the CM pointed out that Darjeeling is strategically located, since it shares its borders with Nepal.
 
 Mamata went on to accuse a section of   leaders in Delhi of giving indulgence to the trouble makers who have support from forces outside the country. "I would appeal to the Hills people to desist from violence and taking law in their own hands. We are looking into the Sonada incident. I have asked the administration to have restraint. Schools in the Hills have closed down and people are not getting rations. I am ready for talks with Hill parties. I can call a meeting within a fortnight to help restore peace in the Hills," the CM said. 
 
 Goyal, instead, referred to the state's role in regard to Basirhat. "On July 6, Bengal home secretary had called on phone and sent a letter also saying that situation is tense but under control, therefore, no additional central force was required. As per state request, additional forces were not sent," the Union minister said. 
 
 
