MUMBAI: A dramatic scene played out on the premises of the magistrate's court at Andheri on Saturday evening. A 20-year-old man, held on robbery charges, allegedly assaulted three constables before smashing the headlight of a police vehicle and then trying to gulp down a shard or two, but was stopped by police personnel in the nick of time.

 The police said the man,  , went berserk after a woman constable prevented one of his friends from meeting him briefly.
 
 It was around 6.35pm on the premises of the Metropolitan Magistrate's court at Andheri that a posse of police personnel had brought Khan to the court. The judicial custody, to which Khan had been earlier remanded, ended on Saturday and the police team had escorted him to the magistrate's court. The magistrate's court extended Khan's custody.
 
 As the police team was escorting Khan to their vehicle to take him back to the  , a friend of Khan who had been waiting in the compound hurried towards him to hand over something to him, said a senior police officer.
 
 That's when police constable   (26) stopped the friend from handing over the object to Khan.
 
 Senior inspector   of Andheri police station said Khan lost his cool when constable Shejwal pre vented him from meeting his friend. “As Shejwal was escorting him into the vehicle, Khan got violent. He attacked two policewomen and a policeman until a few other police personnel managed to overpower him,“ said Thorat, adding that the drama went on for nearly 15 minutes.
 
 In her complaint, constable Shejwal has said when she stopped Khan's friend from handing over the object to him, “Khan kicked me and rained punches on me“.
 
 When another policewoman and a male colleague rushed to her rescue, “Khan also assaulted the two of before he was calmed down“, the complaint adds.
 
 Police inspector   said Khan was arrested last month by officials of Meghwadi police station for robbery. He was kept in police custody and later sent to jail.
 
 “After assaulting the three cops, he broke the headlight of a police vehicle and tried to swallow a piece of the glass but was stopped in time,“ said Khanvilkar. Now, Khan has also been booked for assaulting public servants and deterring them from discharging their duty.
 
