PANAJI: Even at the ripe old age of 80, Fortunato   doesn’t need too much prodding to recall the story of his lifetime, and a chance encounter with the greatest sportsman of all time.

 It happened in 1960 at the Rome Olympics, where the   had qualified for its third successive Games and Franco was making his debut. India had made a name for itself at the previous   in Melbourne, when another Goan — Neville D’Souza — scored a hat-trick to floor Yugoslavia. In Rome, though, it was a different story, as India lost two of its three matches and only managed a draw against France.
 
 “I have great memories of the Olympics,” says Franco, now settled with his wife, son and a doting dog at Colva.
 
 “We used to be at the Olympic Village where everyone gathered for tea and some fun,” he says. “There was a lot of dancing going on and everyone seemed to be in a good mood. Cha-cha-cha was in vogue but (Tuslidas) Balaram and I were seated in a corner.”
 
 “Just then, a handsome looking young man walked up to us, shook hands and said, “What the hell are you’ll doing there? Come dance”, inviting us to shake a leg with two girls. We refused, lest we invite the wrath of our coach,” said Franco.
 
 After a while, Franco asked the young man to introduce himself. “The name’s Cassius Clay,” came the teenager’s reply. Yes, none other than The Greatest, the man who changed his name to   and who went from light heavyweight boxing gold at Rome to heavyweight champion of the world.
 
 Franco, also unknown in Rome to most of India and unable to break into the starting XI, soon acquired fame of his own, displacing Mariappa Kempiah from the two-man midfield and becoming one of India’s greatest half-backs.
 
 “Purely for footballing reasons, I can never ever forget the 1962 Asian Games in Jakarta,” said Franco.
 
 It was in Jakarta that India scripted its greatest-ever triumph, defeating South Korea in the final in front of 1,10,000 boisterous fans — all cheering the rivals — and taking India to the summit of Asian football. It’s a moment that has not been replicated since, possibly because India no longer produces players of Franco’s calibre.
 
 Born in Colvale in the summer of 1936, Franco and his family emigrated to Bombay (now Mumbai) where he realized his childhood dream of being snapped up by the all-powerful Tata’s   Club, after a brief early stint with Western Railway. A fatal knee injury in a local league match in 1966 forced him into early football retirement, but not before he had represented India for seven years in a row and won over 50 international caps.
 
 “We migrated to Bombay somewhere before Liberation. I remember the British buggers were still around and it was not until 1960 that I returned to Goa for the first time, to represent Salgaocar SC. I needed a Documento de Viagem (travel document) to come here,” said Franco.
 
 In 1999, when Franco retired from Tata’s, India’s premier corporate house, after 40 years of service as senior manager (public relations), he finally decided that he wanted to move back to Goa from the hustle-bustle of Mumbai, dialled a good friend, and finally settled for a plot of land in Colva, where he constructed a three-bedroom villa.
 
 “This is my world now,” says Franco, who captained Maharashtra at the   and played a key role in their triumph in 1963, and, had it not been for an unfortunate injury, would have captained the Indian team at the 1966 Asian Games in Bangkok.
 
 Giving Franco company at home is his son Jaideep and his wife of 50 years, Myrtle, a pillar of strength, while daughter Kiran is settled in Dubai. Dog Snoopy is the other love of his life, who unfailingly wakes him up at 5.30 in the morning, goes out for a walk and then allows him to do his household chores and a little bit of gardening. 
 
 “I pray everyday to keep me in good health,” he says. “I don’t want to be bed-ridden and a burden on someone else. All that I want to do is move my a**.” 
 
 Since moving back to Goa, Franco has had little to worry about. The state government recognized his achievements and felicitated him with a cheque of Rs 5 lakh, a rare honour for a sportsperson in Goa. In-between having two small drinks every day, watching news on television and, sometimes, laughing with everyone else while watching the Kapil Sharma Show, Franco can afford to be content with the high-water mark which future generations will struggle to eclipse.
 
 
