GURGAON: A group of parents on Friday urged Gurgaon’s divisional commissioner to immediately revive the audit process of private schools in the city.

 The Punjab and Haryana high court had in November last year quashed additional chief secretary (school education) PK Das’ stay order on the audit of private schools in Gurgaon by the Fee and  . It had also asked the authorities to restart the process within two months.
 
 The parents, under the banner of   and Haryana Parents Forum for Education, submitted a letter to divisional commissioner D Suresh on the non-compliance of the high court’s orders on the audit of private schools in the city.
 
 “The court had given the authorities two months’ time to restart the audit process for the session, but even after four months, nothing has been done. We approached the divisional commissioner, who is also the head of the FFRC, to expedite the process,” Ramesh Rana, president of All India Parents Forum, told TOI.
 
 Many other parents who visited the commissioner said the delay in the audit process was costing them dearly.
 
 “For the last two sessions, the audit process has not been completed. Meanwhile, the schools are going on increasing the fees. In this regard, it becomes important that the audit process is resumed soon,” said  , a parent whose daughter is studying in Ryan International School, Gurgaon.
 
 Rana said a lot of cases of schools harassing students for the delay in fee payment have been surfacing in Gurgaon. “A lot of schools have started asking the parents to take their kids out of school if they failed to pay the hiked fees,” he said.
 
 The FFRC picks up private schools for audit every year on the basis of the complaints filed by parents.
 
 In 2016, the committee had issued a stay on the fee hike of seven schools till the final audit results were declared. Some schools had then approached the additional chief secretary (school education), who is the appellate authority, against the FFRC order. Das subsequently issued a stay on the FFRC order.
 
 
