KOLKATA: The   (DRI) officers   worth Rs 20 crore from a flat in   on Saturday and arrested a person in this connection. The   biscuits were kept in an almirah, said an officer.

 The gold biscuits, DRI sources said, were supposed to be shipped to several destinations in Kolkata. Earlier, central investigating agencies raised concern over mushrooming of small artisan houses on the outskirts of the city. Many of these artisans procure gold illegally and make ornaments from them before sending it to different parts of the country. 
 
 In the past one month, DRI officers noticed a spike in large consignments of illegal gold entering the state. After the demonetisation announcement was made, there was a sudden spike in gold demand that created a glut in the gold market. While prices of the yellow metal fell in the international market over the past few weeks, the demand picked up in the country. Last week, gold prices hit a two-week low while dollar started appreciating in international markets. This has further boosted the demand for the yellow metal prompting more import through illegal routes. Apart from the Myanmar route that operates through the north eastern states, the land route through Bangladesh has also become active.
 
 A couple from Beliaghata was under the scanner of DRI for the past few weeks. On Saturday morning, a team reached Beliaghata after they received a specific input of illegal gold movements through the area. When they knocked on their third floor flat, a man in his mid-thirties opened the door and introduced himself as a small-time businessman. When the officers started searching the flat he tried to resist. 
 
 “There were a few wardrobes inside the bed room and after opening them we found some lockers inside them. On opening one of the lockers, we found that it was stacked with gold biscuits — bars of 24 carat purity. A total 354 pieces of gold biscuits were seized,” said an officer.
 
 All the gold bars had foreign inscriptions on them pointing at the origin of the metal. While some of the bars had  , Switzerland written on them, some had inscriptions of Al Etihad, Dubai. 
 
 During interrogation, the man confessed that he had been acting as a receiver of gold biscuits smuggled into the country via Bangladesh. The biscuits seized on Saturday were brought from UAE to Bangladesh via air route and later sent to Kolkata through land routes. 
 
