PUNE:   in   is no place for girls from poor families.

 From getting killed as a   to landing in red-light areas, married to a goddess or trafficked to serve foreign nationals, grim fate awaits these girls here.
 
 Mhaisal village, which came into the limelight after the recovery of 19 aborted fetuses, also falls under Miraj taluka. But that’s just the tip of the iceberg.
 
 Miraj emerged as a major healthcare centre when William Wanless started a missionary charitable hospital here in 1894. “There are thousands of small and big hospitals in Miraj and nearby villages. Arrested Mhaisal doctor Babasaheb Khidrapure is just one of the many doctors who have been actively involved in aborting female fetuses here,” Sangli-based radiologist Jayashri Patil said. Patil is a leading campaigner of ‘Save Girl Child’ movement in the region.
 
 Khidrapure could have landed in police net much earlier had local administration paid heed to complaints against him, Patil added.
 
 At least Khidrapure holds a Bachelor of Homeopathic Medicine and Surgery degree. There are hundreds of other doctors engaged in killing of fetuses here who are just tenth (SSC) pass and are practising with the help of bogus degrees.
 
 Last year, the   (MMC) had lodged a police complaint against Sangli resident Dhiraj Patil, who possessed a medical degree from Russia, for obtaining MMC recognition using fraudulent certificates. The MMC had also raised the possibility of a “racket” at the   (MCI) as Patil had effortlessly procured multiple clearances from the central body to obtain the licence to practice.
 
 Paresh Shinde, Gram Panchayat member of Mhaisal village, said the district administration must strictly implement laws to save the girl child. “We have repeatedly demanded involvement of villagers in various committees to check female feticide,” Shinde said.
 
 “Having a girl child is a stigma in villages. Many men secretly marry another woman if their wives fail to give birth to a son,” said septuagenarian Akkatai, who gave birth to five girls in her husband’s quest for a son. “Till few years back, we had no option but now there are machines that can detect if the fetus is a girl or a boy,” she said. 
 
 And that’s not all. The Sangli district, parts of which have reeled under drought for many years, has helped flourish devdasi tradition too where girls from the poor families are married off to goddess Yallamma. Though there are laws against this practice, poor girls continue to succumb to it.
 
 Besides, Miraj and Sangli have one of the largest red-light areas too where poor girls from Maharashtra and bordering Karnataka continue to land in.
 
 “Miraj has witnessed hundreds of cases where minor girls have been trafficked to marry foreign nationals, especially those from the UAE. This continues to happen even today, but in a much more secretive manner,” Shobha Kamble, an activist from Miraj, said, adding that despite various campaigns launched by the government to save the girl child, the ground reality remains grim.
 
 Miraj resident Usha Gaikwad said, “Even if a girl survives all attempts to kill or sell her, education is a far cry for these girls. Because of the dowry system, the parents of these girls always find it difficult to find a suitable groom for them. All these factors combined together have contributed to the rise in feticide cases.” She has two daughters and wants them to stand on their own in life with help of education. 
 
 Bharteshwar Patil, a resident of Mhaisal, said villagers need to come together to fight against the evil practice. “Mhaisal was earlier known for its experiment in collective farming and its tradition of bhakti parampara because Saint Eknath stayed here for a long time. However today, the village is in news for all the wrong reasons,” Patil said.
 
