New Delhi: The first major   in Delhi Police since   took over as   was undertaken on Friday in which around a dozen special, joint and deputy commissioners were reshuffled.

 Special commissioner Taj Hasan has been posted as additional director general in narcotics control bureau and is likely to be relieved in a few days. If he doesn’t accept the posting, he will be barred from central deputation in the future and will have to move out of Delhi as his tenure here is over. Sources said that Hasan wants to continue with Delhi Police. The post held by him is also assigned as chief spokesperson.
 
 Delhi Police spokesperson Dependra Pathak has been posted as special commissioner (operations) after promotion. He was joint commissioner of southwestern range. Joint commissioner (eastern range) Satish Golcha has replaced Pathak. Joint commissioner (crime branch) Ravindra Yadav will replace Golcha.
 
 Praveer Ranjan has been posted as joint commissioner (crime). Special commissioner (operations) Sanjay Beniwal has been given women safety, airport and modernisation.
 
 Special commissioner (armed police and recruitment) RS Krishna has been assigned headquarters. Joint commissioner (northern range) Sanjay Singh has been posted as special commissioner (armed police). Joint commissioner (unit for women and children) Robin Hibu has been posted as joint CP (operations), while joint CP (special branch) Rajesh Khurana has been posted with the northern range.
 
 Additional CP crime KK Vyas has been sent to licensing. DCP Vikramjeet Singh has been brought to headquarters from first battalion. DCP (special cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah has been posted with second battalion.
 
 Another reshuffle is in the offing soon. The capital, which is on terror alert, has been without a permanent special cell chief for months. A sensitive unit like special cell, which often gets shrouded in controversy, has been given as additional charge to an officer already handling special branch and intelligence wing.
 
 With the joint commissioner (special cell) retiring this month, it is expected that the unit will get two new officers at the helm.
 
 
