Noida: If you have made an extension of your home beyond the sanctioned plot, then it is time for you to watch out as the   has launched a ‘special drive’ against the illegal use of sidewalks and roads in residential sectors. The move came on Tuesday after a meeting was convened by Rama Raman, UP principal secretary (industries) and chairperson of Noida Authority, on Monday.

 Raman directed officials to conduct a 15-day drive against such encroachments. He ordered action not only against residents building encroachments but also against lax officials.
 
 According to officials, teams headed by project engineers, who are also work-circle in-charges of sectors, have been directed to conduct survey of their respective areas and remove the encroachments by residents. 
 
 “Our engineers are convening meetings with representatives of RWAs and apprising them of the chairman’s decision to remove encroachments,” Saumya Srivastava, deputy CEO ( ) of Noida Authority, told TOI.
 
 “RWAs have been given three days to ask the residents to remove the encroachments on their own. If residents fail to do that, we will take action,” he said.
 
 Srivastava said the work circle teams would survey each sector of the city to draw up a list of encroachments installed by residents on government land. 
 
 “The teams will prepare a list of all spots where residents have encroached on open spaces or sidewalks around their premises for constructing ramps and for placing diesel generator sets,” he said.
 
 He said when the survey was complete, the enforcement department would begin removing these encroachments in the presence of police. “Also, if residents fail to remove the encroachments on their own, we will remove it and charge the residents for the procedure,” Srivastava said.
 
 According to Raman’s directions, if any official is found guilty of dereliction of duty, strict action will be taken against hims. “We have been told by the chairman that if any officer of the Authority is found to be lax in his duty, he will will be suspended without any warning,” the DCEO said.
 
