Bhubaneswar: The saying “behind every successful man there is a woman” is not only cliched but also passe. The reverse sounds more acceptable today, specially in sports. On one hand, there is Mahavir Singh Phogat, whose extraordinary mentorship of his star wrestler daughters has been immortalised in ‘Dangal’. On the other, there is the story of shot-putter  , whose husband-coach Karamjit Singh has been a pillar of strength to her.

 The sub-junior national-record holder, who had to take a break when she got pregnant in 2010, has been training under   Karamjit since 2013 and has witnessed sharp improvement in her throws ever since. At the Asian Grand Prix in Xinhua this year, Manpreet threw her personal best of 18.86m — a distance that not only earned her a berth at the World Championships but also gave her the No. 1 ranking in the world.
 
 Mother of five-and-a-half-year-old daughter Jasnoor, Manpreet has been going strong and won India’s first gold medal at the 22nd   here with a throw of 18.28m.
 
 “It is not difficult for me to balance between my sport and my family. But since I am not the ideal Indian wife, it is my husband who has to make many more adjustments. So outside he has to be my coach and at home he has to be the husband that looks after me, takes care of my diet et al,” says Manpreet.
 
 But Karamjit is not one to shirk from breaking the notion of an Indian husband. Karanjit, a TT at Patiala station, has put his job on the back burner to concentrate on training Manpreet, who works at DCW Railways. As Manpreet is still does not have any sponsorship, Karamjit has to finance her training costs. “I am trying to use whatever we have. Once that is finished, maybe we’ll just have to stop.”
 
 But stopping it could be as painful to the husband as it would be for Manpreet as Karamjit was the one who supported her desire to get back to the field after their daughter’s birth. “There are boys and girls who practise near our house. Manpreet used to sit and watch them and finally expressed her desire to get back. And I said ‘Let’s do it’,” says Karamjit.
 
 It was in 2013 that Manpreet began training under him. He is responsible for changing her technique from a gliding one to the rotational type. “Other coaches laughed when I made the suggestion. But I knew it would help her as she lacks in height compared to other shot-putters,” he says. 
 
 It has worked wonders for her but they do regret the fact that her feat in Xinhua did not get enough attention. “When she made the 18.86 throw and became world No. 1, it was just the two of us who knew about it,” he says.
 
 But Manpreet remains focussed on her goals. “I want to use the experience of the Worlds to better my mark. If the men in India are regularly throwing 20m, why can’t a woman do that?” she says. 
 
 Her coach could not agree more. They have known each other since the days when they trained together in Patiala under Manpreet’s cousin Jagjit Singh. Both give Jagjit the credit for getting them married in 2008. Manpreet, who lost her father at a very young age and has had a struggling childhood, also found a father figure in her father-in-law who always encouraged her to train. His passing away in May 2016, just before the Rio Olympics, was a big blow to her, and Karamjit could not accompany her to Rio. “I used to call her and advise her, but it was just not good enough,” remembers Karamjit.
 
 But Manpreet looks to have got back her groove. The only thing that bother them is leaving their daughter behind when they travel. But young Jasnoor has begun to appreciate her mother’s determination. “Just before I left for  , she told me ‘Mummy, bring the gold medal’. And now I’ve done that,” said a beaming Manpreet with her husband beside her.
 
 
