NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party went into   after its   joined BJP on Monday. While steering clear of allegations about the lack of access to   and the failures Prakash had cited in his letter to the CM,   functionaries attacked BJP for resorting to “tod-phod ki rajneeti”. They alleged that the saffron party was trying to break away AAP MLAs and make them join BJP. 

 AAP’s senior functionary Sanjay Singh quelled rumours of unrest among MLAs and likelihood of others leaving the party to join BJP. “Fearing defeat in the civic polls, BJP is rattled and has started adopting the same tactics it did before the 2015 assembly polls. BJP tried to break away AAP MLAs then. They broke away our then Speaker Maninder Singh Dhir before the 2015 polls. Vinod Kumar Binny, Ashok Chauhan and Rajesh Garg were taken away,” Singh said. “The people, however, gave a befitting reply and AAP won 67 out of 70 seats. The civic polls will also see similar results.”
 
 He said BJP had no faith in democracy. “They (BJP) believe in politics of dismissing and breaking governments. Arunachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa are examples. We have seen how they have tried to kill democracy. In these states, one has seen how governments were brought down and governments were made. Now, they are trying to do the same thing before the MCD polls,” Singh added. He accused BJP of trying to destabilise the AAP government in Delhi. 
 
 Singh claimed the announcement on property tax had resulted in a positive response form the public and this had left BJP worried. 
 
 Deputy CM Manish Sisodia also rejected the view that he or Kejriwal was not accessible. “We are meeting people the entire day and I myself meet so many people every morning. So these allegations of being inaccessible are incorrect. Even CM is available to MLAs always,” Sisodia said. 
 
 AAP’s Delhi unit convener Dilip Pandey was to address the media on the property tax issue, but cancelled it as the party brass gathered for an emergency meeting at Kejriwal’s residence.
 
 Earlier, AAP’s Rajouri Garden MLA, Jarnail Singh, had rsigned to contest the Punjab Assembly polls. And Ved Parkash’s resignation has brought down the AAP’s tally to 65 (from 67) in the 70-member Delhi assembly.
 
 Sanjay Singh also rubbished reports of more AAP MLAs quitting the party. “We are in touch with all our MLAs and no one is quitting,” he said. The party also paraded Madanlal, its MLA from Kasturba Nagar, after buzz that he too was planning to quit it.
 
 
