Mumbai: When Canadian PM   said he welcomes   into the country regardless of their faith, he is clearly rooting for diversity as he looks at it as its strength. Trudeau’s comment followed Donald Trump’s attempt to bar immigrants from seven nations, a decision that faced large-scale criticism from business leaders as well. In contrast to the US President’s diktat, which threatens to hamper the nation’s much-lauded diversity factor, cultural diversity is what organisations across the world are trying to attain, and they are putting rigorous efforts behind the same. While for Indian organisations, it’s more about regional and ethnic diversity, for global companies it’s geographic diversity.

 Globally, the organisations that innovate the most, admittedly do so on account of diversity of thought.  ,   and   are among those which have criticised the ban. Twitter’s CEO   acknowledged that Twitter is built by immigrants of all religions. Global coffee giant Starbucks said it will hire 10,000 refugees over the next five years to “nurture the human spirit”.
 
 A culturally diverse organisation is one that values differences in people. These differences can be in the form of race, sexual orientation, region, religion, age or any other dimension of diversity. Providing workplace flexibility and encouraging international movements is considered to be a must to create a diverse pool of candidates for an organisation. The starting point for organisations is to acknowledge and embrace the benefits of cultural diversity, said Dedeepya Ajith John, senior adviser — knowledge & advisory, SHRM India. “Owing to free trade businesses, the expanded boundaries of every country, organisations setting up offices in newer unexplored markets in the world, and the migration of employees in and out of countries makes it inevitable for organisations to embrace cultural diversity,” said John.
 
 Elaborating on a few examples, John said Aegis India has made considerable efforts to go beyond just gender diversity and follows a six dimensional model of diversity which includes PWDs, gender, socially & economically disadvantaged people, culturally & linguistically diverse people, mature age people and indigenous people. “They provided career opportunities for 1,400-plus people from diverse groups through internal recruitment program,” said John.
 
 Wipro India, on the other hand, expanded to new geographies and also thus inducted more multinational workforce. “Efforts are made to hire business school graduates and graduate engineers from major universities in the US and Europe. Wipro also does a number of people transitions across 45 countries, through outsourcing deals and M&As. People travelling are expected to participate in 2 day ‘Onsite readiness program’, which includes a module on cultural sensitivity. For employees, travelling to customer location for a shorter duration, undergo a 3 hour cross – cultural sensitivity session,” said John.
 
 Jagjit Singh, chief people officer,   India, said, “Cultural diversity is no longer confined to distinguishable physical characteristics or attributes. It includes generational differences and variances in work styles. It also includes respecting, listening to and valuing others perspectives.”
 
 Gurprriet Siingh, a senior leadership consultant, said, “A predictable, linear world required little rethinking or re-modelling. In today’s dynamic & complex world, no one person has all the knowledge to provide the right answer. Co-creation, collaborative thinking, drawing from multiple contexts in order to think laterally and avoid or enable disruption are critical. The set of customers we support or sell to is also much more diverse than ever before.”
 
 As rapid technological advances render current knowledge obsolete more often than before, it is essential to have a diverse team that brings a wide range of differing knowledge bases, contexts, premises and perspectives to the discussion.
 
 However, like many other organisations, PwC does not monitor cultural diversity as a quota system. This is to ensure there’s meritocracy. “We respect and value differences and we know that when people from different backgrounds and with different points of view work together, they create the most value,” said Singh of PwC.
 
 
