VADODARA: He was just four-years-old when he entered the karate arena and began tackling his opponents with determination. Nineteen years later,   Bhalagare is now eyeing a national title after winning the state championships held in the city recently. 

 Siddharth went on to beat the best in the men’s open category to qualify for the national tournament that will be held in Goa on February 25. 
 
 But the path to the nationals wasn’t easy for Siddharth given the poor financial condition of his family. “My father runs running a tea stall in Raopura since decades. He has also driven a rickshaw for earning. There was big responsibility on to him to fund my education along with that of my younger brother. Pursuing any sport is a costly affair,” Siddharth, 23 told TOI. 
 
 “But my father’s friends were gracious enough to chip in along with the seniors in our sport. They offered financial help apart from giving moral support. My coach   has been a major motivator. He even waived off my fees as he spotted potential in me,” Siddharth said. 
 
 To fund his bachelor’s degree education, Siddharth used to work part-time at a medical store. He is now eyeing to win the nationals and also participate in the Commonwealth Karate Championships, South Asian Karate Championship and Asian Karate Championships. 
 
 “If I get through to the nationals, it will be a great moment in my life. Karate has been included as a sport in Olympics 2020 that will be held in Tokyo. I want to give my best,” Siddharth added. 
 
 Siddharth’s coach Jesal Patel, who is sixth degree black belt, affirmed that his young prodigy has great potential. “Right from the beginning of Siddharth’s career I have noticed his full dedication to the game and it will help him achieve several milestones. The challenge will be much tougher at the national platform but his techniques and reflexes are perfect and above all his mid is in his total control,” Patel, who works as physical education teacher at  , said.
 
 Enthused by the achievement of their sports teacher, the students of St Kabir had even organized a special treat. “It could not get better than this because when you have so many people wishing for the success, the determination to get into the national team increases,” said Siddharth.
 
 
