BALLIA: If the earlier controversies around the birth place of India’s first freedom fighter,   Pandey, were not enough, here is another.

 Pandey’s family in   complains that whatever development work is being done in his name is skewed towards   — known for being his birthplace — while his actual family is deprived of all facilities just because it is living a few kilometres away, in an old, dilapidated house in Bandhu Chak village, about 8km away from Ballia Nagar.
 
 A water tank was built around 15 years ago in the freedom fi ghter’s memory in Nagwa by a neta. However, he apparently missed the fact that Pandey’s immediate family lived 2km away from Nagwa and hence wouldn’t receive any water from the tank. His family complains that because Pandey is associated with Nagwa, most funds and development works are purposely directed to Nagwa.
 
 Though the tank’s supply reaches about 10,000 people daily, Pandey’s immediate family is deprived of it and has to depend on handpumps for water. Pandey’s fourth generation daughter-in-law, Tettri Devi, says, “The pipeline ends barely 100m away from our house. Politicians often refer to Ballia as the hometown of Mangal Pandey and use his name in speeches to gain public support, but fail to acknowledge his family’s grievances. We are living in extreme poverty with no government help ever.”
 
 This confusion emerged many decades ago when Ganga engulfed the original Nagwa during fl oods and villagers had to relocate to surrounding areas. Santosh K Pandey, one of Mangal Pandey’s great grandsons, recalls, “Villagers settled in different parts within a 3km periphery. These settlements gradually took shape of villages and four villages were formed from one Nagwa village (Nagwa, Mohan Chhapra, Saurban Dada Ka Chapra and Bandhu Chak).”
 
 Rajiv Prakash Pandey, a local, says, “A government inter college, a martyr’s memorial, a library and, very recently, a girls’ inter college has been opened in Nagwa but our village is still struggling for basic facilities like roads, water and a primary school. Just because we settled a few kilometres away doesn’t mean we are not entitled to facilities being provided in Mangal Pandey’s name.”
 
 
