 hogged the limelight in 2009 when it hosted south India's first international paragliding festival. It became an instant hit among the aero sports lovers from across the country and abroad, particularly from Europe. However, the lack of support from the   and   to organise the international paragliding festival hit tourism to the hills.

 From  , who took part in the first edition of the festival, the number of gliders had increased to over 60 the following year, the hill making a mark on the international map of adventure sports. Gliders from Italy , Germany , England, France, Austria, Switzerland, Hong Kong and Sri Lanka had converged during August and September to fly over the hills. The hills provide ample scope for intermediate-level flying and crosscountry flying. In the first edition, three gliders flew for 100km, a record for Yelagiri Hills. Several tourists also enjoyed joyrides in tandem with pilots. Weather and wind speed in the hills also were conducive for paragliding for around eight months.
 
 But the hill has slowly faded out from the international adventure sports map due to poor maintenance of the take-off sites -Ramakrishna Mutt, Rayaneri and Muthanur -in the hills and lack of support from the district administration.“We met senior officials of tourism department and district collectors on several occasions to organise the paragliding festival, but there has been no support ,“ said a member of Yelagiri Adventure Sports Association (YASA), formed to promote adventure sports.
 
 Vellore district collector is the chairperson of YASA, while conservator of for ests and superintendent of police were vice-chairpersons. “The association remains defunct after former collector Dharmendra Pratap Yadav, who was instrumental in promoting tourism, was transferred to Chennai,“ the member added.
 
 The take-off sites should be vegetation-free for easy take-off and landing.But wild shrubs and weeds grow fast, posing difficulty in keeping the sites clear.Nothing has been done by authorities to maintain the sites, alleged the member.
 
 Also, gliders from abroad and other parts of the country would come only during the prime season, from August to October. It is very important to have gliders and tandem pilots in the local area, says Narendra Raman, a glider from Bangaluru. “In Yelagiri and surrounding areas, there are no gliders.“
 
 The Yelagiri Paragliding Club and YASA conducted a course on flying to 10 tribal youngsters and got them shortlisted for advanced courses in Pune. However, the programme did not take off due to lack of support from the administrators.
 
 Vellore collector S A Raman said, “I recently visited the take-off sites in the hills and also inquired their present status. We will take appropriate actions to revive the paragliding festival in the future.“
 
