NASHIK: Transport authorities here are ready for the annual road safety campaign from Monday, but   want improved infrastructure first to avoid traffic congestions and accidents. 

 Along with police, the   ( ) will start the 28th fortnight-long road safety campaign at the collectorate in the presence of commissioner of police  , civic chief   and collector Radhakrishan B. 
 
 The RTO has planned a series of lectures and rallies across the city to make people aware about road safety as part of the programme even as a big section of the motorists feels that the authorities should use the occasion to ensure a better driving condition. 
 
 Police records revealed that the district saw 844 fatal accidents in 2016, which claimed 1,011 lives. Though most of the accidents were attributed to rash driving, residents feel that not much focus has been on infrastructure.  , a resident of Sinnar Phata who runs a shop along Nashik-Pune highway, said, “Everyday we see ‘nakabandi’ in our area, when police check the documents of motorists. The administration, however, is not paying any attention to the accidents occurring for years together on these narrow roads. I have been several accidents in front of our shop and have been cautious while driving.” 
 
 He said, “A few months ago, my parents where injured when they fell off a scooter because of a silt on the road. We are not against enforcement of laws. But who is bothered about the road conditions leading to such accidents?” 
 
 A couple of months ago, police conducted a meeting with citizens over improving the traffic conditions. Among the demands raised by the people then were proper footpaths, stands for autorickshaws, removal of encroachments and a better illumination system.
 
 Chandrashekhar Ahire, a resident of Nashik Road, said, “Nashik is a beautiful city and people love to be here for its environment. But whenever they have to take autorickshaws, they complain about the drivers fleecing them in the absence of fare-by-meter rides. Indisciplined traffic is another common complaint.”
 
 Another resident, who did not wish to be named, said, ““Recently, police slapped a challan on me for riding without helmet. I forgot to wear the head gear, which should not be an excuse. But I was amused to find that police were busy implementing the helmet rule even as people were jumping signals at many places in the absence of the men in uniform. Autorickshaws ply along the roads in a dangerous way and kiosks are a common sight at most junctions.”
 
 
