New Delhi: The North Campus colleges drew a decent crowd on the first day of admissions udner the fourth cutoff list with aspirants waiting for over two hours for the portal to be functional. Many colleges also had long queues for cancellations. Till now, 39,605   have been taken at DU.

 Anxious candidates also approached college authorities regarding the outcome of the HC case on the re-evaluation of CBSE Class XII marks but principals said they were not very clear about it. The principal of a North Campus college said that until now,   had just told them that the admissions would take place as per the HC guidelines but hadn’t issued any instruction on the details of the policy.
 
 “I had filed my application for re-evaluation on June 3, but haven’t received any response from CBSE. I want to pursue economics from a North Campus college. The authorities there have assured me of a seat if I make it to the cutoff with my re-evaluated score,” said Aarushi Goyal, who was at Daulat Ram College on Thursday.
 
 Though admissions to most colleges in North Campus have closed for general category, colleges like SGTB Khalsa are buoying on a late start and are ready to drag the process for as long as needed. “We have been reducing the cutoffs very slowly because of which we are still admitting students. We now have 150 seats left out of 840,” said principal Jaswinder Singh.
 
 At Kirori Mal, too, the admissions have been slow, but admissions are almost over in the general category. At least 81 students were admitted on Thursday.
 
 Many students at Dyal Singh were seen switching between courses. “I wanted to study economics, but have opted for mathematics here due to high cutoffs in the other subject,” said Tanya, who scored 92.5% in her Boards.
 
 Sri Venkateswara, Aryabhatta and ARSD colleges saw a fair turnout with students coming in for both withdrawals and admissions. “We have received a huge number of applications for courses like BCom (H) and BCom programme, so we are expecting a few withdrawals in the fourth list,” said a member of the admission committee at ARSD College.
 
 A sizeable amount of applicants were also seen at Maitreyi and Jesus and Mary. Zaira Shah, a resident of of Anantnag district in Jammu and Kashmir, got herself enrolled in English at JMC under the Prime Minister Special Scholarship Scheme. “Due to political instability and insurgency, students in Kashmir have been affected a lot,” she told TOI. “I am lucky to get the chance to complete my education from a top university.” 
 
 Many colleges, such as Lady Sri Ram, were frequented by students enquiring about admissions under the   quota, the cutoff list for which is to be released on Friday. Many aspirants also visited ARSD and Sri Venkateswara to get themselves registered under this category.
 
