HYDERABAD: Winning is a habit and having tasted it, India have no intention of losing momentum.   and   have been at the receiving end of the Indian juggernaut. Bangladesh are up next in the one-off Test beginning here on Thursday in what could be an appetiser for sterner tests to follow -the four-Test series against  .

 So well have India acquitted themselves in the last eight Test matches that their head coach said it's character that counts, not conditions, opposition or the number of matches. “Test matches are about showing character,“ Kumble said here on Tuesday. “And pulling back if you have lost a session or continuing to keep the momentum going if you've won a session. That's the hallmark of Test cricket. If you look back at the England Test series, not many things went our way in terms of the toss, of which people spoke quite a bit after the New Zealand series. And 400 runs on the board (by England) in the last two Test matches, but we could pull out a victory from there. A convincing victory. We look to continue to do that.“
 
 Motivation, Kumble reckoned, was not a problem and he saw no need to do anything different. “What we have gone about in the group is to measure our performances, measure our own expectations and not really look at the opposition. That's really worked well for us so far. I don't think we need to do anything different against Bangladesh. That's all we will focus on, irrespective who the opposition is. As long as we do that and continue to keep winning those moments and performances as a group, the results will go our way,“ he said.
 
 Well begun is half the job done, goes the saying, but India's opening batsmen have been through the revolving door, with KL Rahul asked to join team while on domestic duty in Vizianagaram, Parthiv Patel stepping up and now Abhinav Mukund in the squad with Shikhar Dhawan out of the mix. Is the opening slot still a cause for concern? “Not really . Murali Vijay and KL Rahul have played wonderfully well in the last series. It's just that you need a back-up opener in case something happens on the day of the match. As far we are concerned, the openers have always had some issues, be it in the last home series or in the series leading up to it. Abhinav brings in not just the experience of playing at the international level, but also lots of runs in domestic cricket. It's a reward to what he's being able to achieve in the domestic season.“
 
 The limited-overs contests between India and Bangladesh have not been short on needle. What does the coach make of this team? “We'd like to take every team the same way in terms of what they bring to the table.They had a good outing in New Zealand although the results are different.We certainly respect the opposition. Bangladesh have some quality players, good all-rounders. It's going to be a real good contest,“ said Kumble.
 
 Much as the spin duo of R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja have contributed to India's success, Kumble said the contribution of the quicks cannot be downplayed. “We have the ability to take 20 wickets, whether it is the fast bowlers or the spinners. You spoke about spinners dominating against England, but the fast bowlers' contribution cannot be take away at all, whether it was against England, or New Zealand. It is a matter of getting the partnership right, whether it is the fast bowlers or spinners. This squad has the ability to pick up 20 wickets.“
 
 Kumble was also happy to have Ajinkya Rahane back and said it's good to have Hardik Pandya in the mix. “Ajinkya's performances have been phenomenal,“ he said.
 
 
