PANAJI: It was a deadly start to the New Year for the close to 80 people who lost their lives on Goa’s roads during the first three months of the year.

 Roads accidents snuffed out 25 more lives in 2016 as compared to in 2015, accounting for almost one road death for each day of the year.
 
 Riders accounted for more than 55% of the road accident deaths closely followed by unsuspecting pedestrians and pillion riders.
 
  recorded the highest number of   and related deaths, closely followed by Verna, Mapusa, Pednem and Bicholim.
 
 The month of December 2016 alone saw more than one person succumb to road accidents everyday with 34 deaths recorded. More than half of these were riders and almost one-fourth pedestrians. 
 
 When the road accident statistics for 2015 were analysed, it was found that majority of accidents were recorded in the months of January, May, November and December, a time when the tiny state sees an influx of tourists, and during 6pm and 9pm.
 
 The figures also revealed that more than half of the accidents were attributed to dangerous or careless driving, including overtaking, while more than one-third were due to over speeding, where two wheelers were responsible for one-fourth of the fatalities.
 
 This is not surprising considering 200 vehicles on an average are registered in the small state each day with two wheelers accounting for 69% of the vehicles.
 
 Traffic cell officials say fatalities can be reduced if drivers and drivers stop speeding. They also blamed buses for unauthorized stops, riders not using helmets, drivers choosing not to wear seat belts, lane cutting and overtaking for the rising fatalities.
 
 The UN   has recognized speed as a key risk factor, contributing to half the fatal road traffic crashes in low and middle income countries. The fourth UN Global Road Safety week from May 8 till 14 will focus on strategies to address speed. 
 
 Among the proven strategies it has suggested building and modifying roads to include features that calm traffic, establishing speed limits and enforcing them, installing in-vehicle technologies and raising awareness about the dangers of speeding.
 
 Around Rs48 lakh were disbursed to 28 beneficiaries under the Goa State Interim Compensation to Road Accident Victims 2015, the economic survey stated.
 
  (GoaCAN) convener Roland Martins said that with the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 set to be amended, stricter laws, and heavy penalties would ensure that the number of accidents reduced. 
 
