COIMBATORE: The grand finale of  , a 36-hour non-stop programming competition in which students from across the country compete to offer innovative solutions to technical problems faced by various government departments, began at   in   on Saturday.

 Around 7,531 teams from around 2,100 technical institutes across the country had submitted ideas, of which 1,266 teams were shortlisted for the grand finale that would conclude on Sunday. The competitions are being held in 26 nodal centres, with each team representing a central ministry.   has been chosen for the ministry of environment, forests and climate change. Fifty-four teams are competing at the Coimbatore centre.
 
 Union human resource development (HRD) minister Prakash Javadekar inaugurated the event through a videoconferencing in Mumbai. The minister said he was surprised to receive 600 technical problem statements from 26 ministries. “We had offered all ministries to find solutions for the technical problems they faced. And we were of the feeling that only the general public faced problems. We were, in fact, taken aback by such a long list of problems from the ministries,” Javadekar said.
 
 The minister also urged the start-ups to innovate and invest to realise the prime minister Narendra Modi’s Make in India initiative. Pointing out that the country was in a start-up mode, he said the central government had been of late facilitating start-ups to function out of IIT hostels. “Already, 600 start-ups have started working from hostels and this is the new India. This will further propel the prime minister’s Make in India initiative,” Javadekar said.
 
 The minister described the Smart India Hackathon, co-organised by   (AICTE), My Gov, National Informatics Centre (NIC) and National Association of Software and Services Companies (NASSCOM), a platform for students to come up with innovations that would go a long way in solving many problems of common people. “What they (students) invent would be solutions for the technical problems that the people of India face,” he said.
 
 Speaking about the reach of digital solutions that the students would come up with, Javadekar said, “We have 130 crore Aadhar card holders, of which 108 crore have mobile phones and 70 crore do premium recharge every month. People are ready to absorb technology.”
 
 
