KOLKATA:   has set out in search of a happy life. To make it tick, the   (NKDA), guided by West Bengal Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) along with the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur (IIT-Kgp), will study the   of the locality. This will then be replicated for residents of newer townships.

 While making individuals happy is a challenge, making a community happy is even a greater one. Can we make a city happy? Is reduction of unhappiness equivalent to increase in happiness? Are happiness and well-being the same? These were some of the questions answered by experts at a workshop on Thursday.
 
 “Without looking at the relation between happiness and well-being, between subjective and structural parameters, and between the individual and the community, any attempt towards making a green city happy can be futile. In order to grapple with these questions and come up with tenable solutions, Rekhi Centre of Excellence for the Science of Happiness has teamed up with Ranbir and   School of Infrastructure Design (RCGSID). Together, we will explore subjective well-being, community infrastructure and other key issues with the help of NKDA and Hidco,” said Joy Sen, RCGSID head.
 
 IIT-Kgp in Phase I will train technical and managerial manpower for large-scale social innovation projects and neighbourhood-level community infrastructure development. 
 
 Proposals handed over to NKDA and Hidco at the end of the discussions suggested more Eco Park-like development with appropriate gymnasium, yoga centres, health spas, health clubs and outlets for senior citizens. 
 
 In the second phase, there are plans to set up transformative housing projects. Developing a happiness index and identifying happiness level of the New Town population will be undertaken. Recommendations for integrating various subjective well-being parameters, for example, socialization and sense of gratitude, have been suggested in the draft proposal. The existing activities could be modelled around these parameters or new activities be designed.
 
 “We’ll work together with Hidco and NKDA to develop a modern, sensitive and happy city,” said IIT-Kgp director Partha Pratim Chakrabarti.
 
 
