BHOPAL: Amid opposition demand to dismiss state legislative minister Narottam Mishra from cabinet, chief minister   broke his silence, though unofficially, saying that he would talk to party seniors and seek legal advice on the issue during his New Delhi visit. “We will soon take a decision on the future of Narottam Mishra. The party is taking legal advice on his case and all legal aspects would be considered while taking any decision on this. I would not say anything official right now”', said Chouhan while talking to reporters during voting for presidential election in state assembly on Monday.

 The chief minister attended the BJP parliamentary board meeting in New Delhi where the party declared   minister Vankaiah Naidu as   candidate for the post of Vice-President. Chouhan islearnt to have met Narottam Mishra at   in Delhi before the meeting, said sources close to CM secretariat. 
 
 The BJPdid not disclose about this meeting officially, but the chief minister is believed to have discussed legal issues and party's next step in Mishra's disqualification from the assembly, sources added. As far as BJP is concerned, party’s national leadership will take a decision whether Natorram should resign from Madhya Pradesh cabinet or should wait for final legal outcome in the matter.
 
 “BJP state president Nandkumar Singh Chauhan and chief minister Shivraj Singh are in New Delhi. They have most likely met party's national president Amit Shah to discuss next step in Narottam's case. Some leaders in the BJP believe that Narottam should resign as BJP is already fighting a moral battle against RJD on the issue of corruption. In such a situation, the party would like to set a good precedent”, said sources.
 
 Apart from BJP leaders and chief minister Chouhan, assembly Speaker Sitasaran Sharma is also taking legal opinion on Narottam's resignation. It is said that in case Narottam does not agree to tender his resignation from the cabinet, the MP Congress would file a contempt petition in the Delhi high court for violation of court verdict.
 
 ``If chief minister is unwilling to dismiss or instruct Narottam Mishra to quit as cabinet minister, Congress will file an application in the Supreme Court against the chief minister for violation of court directives'', said leader of opposition Ajay Singh.
 
 As suspense over Mishra's resignation from the post continues, all eyes are on the party's state leadership who will decide whether Narottam should quit or face another contempt petition by disobeying court directives.
 
