Twice over, by happenstance,   hung him precariously over village wells in the hinterlands of Maharashtra: for her telefilm 'Begaar' and then for 'Disha'. He didn't know how to swim but didn't complain, not too much except to laugh out loud if the director had a fetish about throwing him into the murky depths.

 Om Puri, I suspect, would have performed death-defying stunts if that had been demanded at the outset of his four decade-long career. He had that gnawing hunger to become an actor. His resonating voice, laser eyes, an inborn-ease-before-the camera were his lethal weapons. And he was also at the right place at the right time.
 
  
  
 Come the 1970s and show-town was no longer obsessive about Greekgod looks, lost-and-confound stories, audience tastes they were a changin'. The New Wave was lashing the Bombay shoreline, and there he was about to ride the crest. Wads of money, currying favour with the producer pashas of the time, hanging out with the poster-boy stars on their seafront penthouses weren't his scene. No dirty dancing, no hokum pokum, no desperate prayers, no killer instinct. Perhaps there was an inner conviction: he'd make it in a system where dreamers-strugglers dare to tread.
 
 "But you're taking it far too easy," the impatience in me once asked him. Om was wandering around Fort, which resembles Deadsville on Sundays. Shouldn't he be out there in the suburbs, at the studios shooting, inking contracts?
 
 Drawing on his ubiquitous filter tip, he had responded shyly, "Jo hona hai woh hoga. If I go out and meet   or  , they'll take one look at my face and tell me to go for a walk. I'd rather walk by myself around town. In any case, I'm going to New Empire, Hitchcock's Family Plot. Coming?" I did, he didn't fuss when I insisted on paying for the tickets. "Thanks," he smiled. "I can have dessert with my dinner today."
 
 Om was a paying guest at the apartment of Rani Burra, a colleague from his Film Institute days. A sun drenched maze of rooms in Ganga Vihar on Marine Drive, it was the affordable sanctuary of a floating population which also included Girish Karnad, Jahnu Barua and Kulbhushan Kharbanda.
 
 After the matinee, I joined him for an evening rum and water at Ganga Vihar. "Don't ask Rani for ice please," he had said conspiratorially. "She'll get angry. We use her fridge all the time, it has started rattling."
 
 Talk about cinema was thick in the air, the camaraderie amongst the New Wavewallas indicated that each one in the commune would leap over Bollywood's barbed wire fence, perchance even jump into the mainstream. So what if they didn't know how to swim?
 
 Om Puri's such a long journey through the thickets of films: great, good and, inevitably, unworthy of his stature, is as familiar as one's birthmark to anyone who cares about cinema. Maybe Om could never wear the crown of stardom, unfairly reserved for conventional designer heroes.
 
 Maybe he didn't have the gift of throwing attitude, answering the phone on the second ring at most. "Arre yaar, you don't have to call me Omji or sir," he would correct me.
 
 Of late, he had become a bit hesitant, expecting me to quiz him about his marriage-gone-asunder or his biography, 'Unlikely Hero', authored by his wife, Nandita. "You must read it," he had entreated. "But go through it entirely. I'm afraid only the sensational, masala chapters have become the talking point."
 
 I had called him, in fact for a video interview for a documentary on  . "Of course, any time," he agreed right away. "I would be upset if I wasn't a part of it."
 
 He talked for an hour or more at the home of his by-then estranged wife. I couldn't detect any unpleasant vibes. Vis-'vis Benegal, he categorically stated, "When   lashed out against parallel cinema, I told him yaar, that's not on.We are whatever we are because of Shyam babu,   and  . But if we had stuck to those films we wouldn't have been able to afford a decent lifestyle, the homes we live in, our means of transport, our collection of books...you know what I mean."
 
 Right. Interview done, Om asked if I would like a Scotch and soda -with ice he added. Since it was just about noon, I had to beg off. "You've changed," he snapped. "I guess we all do."
 
 Seeing me to the elevator, he whooped child-like, "Wait, I have something for you. Perhaps you don't remember. I do." He returned with a DVD copy of Alfred Hitchcock's Family Plot and a box of mithai.
 
 Handing over the mithai, he smiled, "Please do have that after dinner... for dessert."
 
 He turned back quickly, evidently embarrassed about the sentimental gesture. He didn't say goodbye.
 
 
 
 
