PANAJI: With the hectic month-long campaigning for the assembly election coming to an end, most politicos are looking forward to a short relaxing holiday with their near and dear ones.

 The run-up to the elections was extremely chaotic for the state’s politicians, with crucial issues like choice of candidates and striking alliances, keeping them busy.
 
 Now, that all the frenzy has died down for a while, most of them are planning to spend some time with their family and friends before resuming work after the counting.
 
 Chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar, who was back to work on Sunday, said he planned to spend some time with his family in the national capital. “I have a lot of files to clear and after completing my work, I have a function to attend in Delhi, where I will go with my family. We will spend some time together in the national capital itself.”
 
 Former chief minister and   said that right now he was preparing for the repoll that has been ordered in a ward of his constituency. “After that, I plan to go on a two-day trip with my family within the country. That could be somewhere in Goa as well,” said Kamat, adding that the people of   don’t let him stay away for long, election or no election.
 
  (MGP) chief minister candidate Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar said he cannot take rest immediately as he has to attend a lot of weddings till February 12. “I will think of going out after February 12 and that too, to a relative’s place outside the state,” he said, adding that he will meet all the MGP candidates on Monday and resume work.
 
  chief ministerial candidate Elvis   started his day with a meeting with his supporters. Gomes said he has not planned any vacation, adding that he now has to start party-related work in Goa and outside the state. “However, I do need a week-long break and might go out of station with my family,” he added. Gomes said the last couple of days were so hectic that he could not complete his sleep and would first like to get some proper sleep before anything else.
 
 
