MUMBAI: Bringing to book a man who suppressed his first marriage and remarried, a magistrate’s court ordered him to pay a   of Rs 3 lakh to the   for causing her mental and physical  . “The respondent (husband) has suppressed his first marriage from the applicant and got married with her by taking disadvantage of the personal law, which permitted him to marry four times. This is nothing but   with applicant,” the court said. 

 The court added that the husband was to pay the second wife a monthly maintenance of Rs 8,000 under the provisions of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, in addition to Rs 5,000 towards costs of the proceedings.
 
 The man is facing   under Section 498A (husband or relative of husband subjecting wife to cruelty) of the Indian Penal Code. 
 
 On August 21, 2014, the woman moved the court under the Act seeking protection and relief. She said that when she got married to the man October 13, 2010, her family was told that he was a bachelor who ran a spare parts business. The woman said that within six months, he started abusing her and demanded she arrange for a separate residence for both of them. She said that her widowed mother and maternal uncle had jointly purchased a house and her husband insisted they transfer it to his name. 
 
 She further alleged that even after she was allowed to reside there with her husband, he continued to assault her and taunt her about her caste. She said that he even forced her to get a share in the Rs 12 lakh insurance claim received by her family after her father’s death.
 
 Fearing for her life, the woman moved back to her mother’s house in August 2012. The woman said on one occasion, he came over when she was alone at home and insisted on physical relations. She alleged that when she refused, he poured kerosene on her and threatened to set her ablaze. 
 
 The husband denied all allegations and said that the complainant was aware of his first wife and two daughters and had consented to the marriage. 
 
 The man said she got upset with him as he went on a 17-day pilgrimage with his family members in 2013 and threatened to tell his first wife about their marriage. He alleged that she filed the police complaint only to seek revenge.
 
 The court pointed out that the man had stated that though his first wife had suspected that he had remarried, he had handled the situation calmly. “This evidence of respondent goes to suggest that he has suppressed his second marriage from the first wife. Thus, it seems that he has a habit to tell false to wives. Therefore, his evidence is not trustworthy, believable and acceptable,” the court said. 
 
 It further held that the man had even obtained talaq from the woman without following the customs and procedure of the Muslim personal laws.
 
