SHIMLA: An incident of a stranger boy’s intrusion in a girls hostel of   (HPU) has created panic among girls living in hostels. Many hidden entrances at hostels are posing threat to their security, while allegedly authorities are not serious over the issue.

 The girls hostels of HPU are although fenced with walls and pointed railings but many caves have been found in two of the hostels. On Tuesday night around 3am, a stranger came into the room of a girl staying in Bipasha hostel. She ran out of the room and locked him from outside but he escaped through the window. One of the girls saw him and immediately informed the authorities which later found that the intruder had climbed the hostel roof to enter through the window.
 
 “Earlier too, many such incidents have been reported there, but authorities did not pay any attention. There should be proper gates, fencing and CCTV cameras for safety of girl students,” said Hema Thakur, Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) regional minister and Bipasha hosteller.
 
 ABVP campus secretary Nobel Thakur said, “Some of the hostels provided to girls in 2012 used to be boys hostels earlier and boys then may have dug secretive holes to escape and enter. But, were these hostels not renovated cautiously in last five years? Some caves were covered only with tins and currently there are many such caves in all girls hostels. Not only humans but wild animals too can barge into hostels. Authorities should work on them immediately,” she added.
 
 Representatives of Students’ Federation of India (SFI) said that earlier, naked wires hanging all around girls hostels was an issue which had electrocuted one of the girls. Later the issue of acute scarcity of water and now the security matter posed a question on the negligence of authorities, they said adding that hostellers had been demanding CCTV cameras in the premises since long but that was neglected like other demands. Now, the authorities should take lesson and install cameras immediately, they said.
 
 One of security incharges,  , said that due to winter holidays, the officials were not providing security in girls hostels but on the complaint of a girl, security had reached the spot immediately and wrote to the concerned authorities to repair the broken fences. 
 
 Chief warden professor   and additional chief warden Dr Aparna Negi refused to talk when TOI tried to contact them on phone.
 
 
