A call to act in a Tamil movie didn't feel like anything out of the ordinary for Malayali TV anchor  . 

 She brushed it off saying, 'I will be busy,' until the caller mentioned the name Mammootty. Finding it hard to believe her ears, she felt it might be a mistake. It's only later that she learnt that   himself had suggested her name to director Ram to cast her as the heroine in the Malayalam ' Tamil bilingual film  .
 
 'I don't have the liberty to speak much about my character or story,' Anjali says, while adding that every moment on the set has been a blessing. 'I have taken part in skits and plays in school, have won prizes too, and also have a few TV shows to my credit. But sharing screen with someone of Mammootty's stature, that too in my first film and first take' it wasn't easy to process,' she recalls. Though she wished to be an actress, Anjali says she didn't know how to go about it.
 
 Anjali says that when she first met the megastar, it was his cool demeanour that relaxed her. 'He told me, 'Do well, I'm sure you can.' Five or six days after meeting him, my first shot was scheduled with him. We did a rehearsal, and after that he said 'Yes, perform just like this, you don't have to change anything.' That boosted my confidence,' she says.
 
 And how was the model-turned anchor chosen for this superstar project? 'Mammukka himself told me how it happened, during our first take,' says Anjali, whose identity as a transgender had left her with a bad taste in the Malayalam industry a few years ago. 'I used to do TV programmes and comedy shows in the past, and that is how someone offered me a role in a Malayalam TV serial. I had revealed to them my sexuality, but the production controller did not reveal it to the crew. It's only after two days of the shoot that they learnt it somehow and post that, they started avoiding me,' recalls the actress, who shared the experience in an interview on a TV channel. 'As luck would have it, Mammukka saw the interview and suggested my name to the team for this project. That is how they contacted me for the film,' reveals Anjali.
 
 Though she has been getting offers from Tamil and Telugu, Malayalam hasn't yet opened the doors to her, says Anjali, who hails from Calicut. While she discusses issues faced by transgenders and has completely transformed into a female, Anjali doesn't consider herself an activist. 'I have always been a quiet and private person and hardly have what it takes to be an activist (laughs). And, I also believe in equality of all genders and believe that my work, not my sexuality, should speak for me,' she signs off.
 
 
