LUCKNOW: Confirming apprehensions of investigators that the   wasn’t restricted to Uttar Pradesh, a   in Lucknow confessed on Monday that he had installed chips in Odisha as well, apart from various districts of the state. 

 The man arrested was identified as Ajay Chaurasiya from Para, who worked at Midco, a company that manufactures fuel dispensing units installed at retail outlets. Police also recovered one dispensing unit of Gilbarco company, four chips, three fake seals of weights and measurement department, five pulser cards, five remote controls and a host of other hardware.
 
 ASP (STF) Arvind Chaturvedi said that Muzaffarnagar police arrested one Jauhar Abbas who led them to Chaurasiya. Chaurasiya confessed that he picked up these ‘skills’ while working at L&T in Mumbai in 2000. In 2007, he moved to Gorakhpur but was dismissed after a few months. Then, he started the trade of purchasing a chip at Rs 3,000 and selling it for Rs 15,000. This chip was installed in the circuit of dispensing units not only in UP but also in other states.
 
 “I installed a chip in a petrol pump in Odisha,” said Chaurasiya in his statement to STF officials. He also confessed of having made Rs 30 lakh in this business and also told agencies that he had sent 400 chips to Abbas in Muzaffarnagar, said Chaturvedi. SSP (STF) Amit Pathak told TOI that Chaurasiya admitted to having sold chips in Aligarh, Bareilly, Muzaffarnagar and Sultanpur as well. Pathak said, “On the basis of the interrogation of those held, we have prepared a list of 17 people who operate across the country.” 
 
 Sources in the STF claimed that the chips were mass-manufactured at Kanpur and Unnao.
 
 Meanwhile, more pumps were raided in three other cities of the state. In Agra, an IOC petrol pump at Bodla was sealed after five of its dispensing units were found tampered with, while raids at three other pumps were carried out in which dispensing units were seized.
 
 In Unnao, two dispensing units were sealed at Singh Filling station located at Mauranipur and in Barabanki, two units were sealed at Agarwal Trading Company on Faizabad road.
 
 
