BIJNOR: Uttar Pradesh’s minister of state for urban development Girish Chandra   who paid a surprise visit to a government primary school in Haldaur’s   village on Tuesday was shocked to find that basic facilities such as the toilets and kitchen were in a shambles. An angry minister then asked the district magistrate and chief development officer to ensure repairs and improvements in a week’s time and submit a report about the same to him.
 
  Yadav had come to Bijnor on the occasion of Ganga Swachchhta Sankalp Divas to flag off a 21-day rally with a view to creating awareness to keep the river clean among the people living along its banks.
  
  On his way to the function, the minister decided to stop and inspect the primary school of Daranagar, which is located along the banks of the river.
  
  When Yadav entered the kitchen where the midday meal is to be cooked, he found that all the cooking and edible material including rice and pulses missing. He then learned that all the groceries and utensils were kept at the pradhan’s house instead of the school. The only dish that was ready for the midday meal was made of potatoes instead of pulses, which is a must on the menu.
  
  Next , Yadav inspected the toilets. He found that of the two toilets, one was locked while the other one was in a dilapidated condition, This was an indication that the students were not using the toilet and were going in the open to answer a call of nature.
  
  Several other irregularities came to Yadav’s notice. He found that 70 students of the 205 enrolled at the school were absent
  
  The upset minister immediately spoke with the DM and CDO , asking them to improve the standard of education and other things . He instructed them to send him pictures of the kitchen, toilets and midday meal to him. He asked the teachers that they motivate their wards to use the toilet regularly.
  
  Chief development officer   said, “A few irregularities were detected during the inspection. Teachers told the minister that the midday meal groceries are kept at the pradhan’s house to prevent pilferage of foodstuff. The toilets are locked but opened when any student wishes to relieve himself.”
  
  After the inspection, minister Yadav attended the Ganga Swachchhta Sankalp Divas programme and administered an oath to all those who were present to make the Ganga clean. He assured the people that both central and state govt have prepared a plan to keep the Ganga clean. It would start bearing fruit within the next two or three months.
