NAVI MUMBAI: Seven years after the   ( ) started the four-laning work of 84km Panvel-Indapur section of Mumbai Goa highway , no data on tree plantations undertaken about the cuttings is available with the highway construction agency.

 The NHAI has axed 6,000 trees and over 4,500 are to be chopped soon. This, despite a monitoring panel's reminders to plant trees.
 
 The highway widening work began in 2009. The stretch includes   sanctuary area. The 450-km state stretch of Mumbai Goa highway (NH-66) is executed by NHAI for 84km and through the state PWD for the rest of the 366-km stretch.
 
 NHAI official CP Gangadharan said, “In all, 10,509 trees are to be axed for the 84km stretch. So far, 5,952 trees are cut along the stretch. It includes cutting of 497 trees in   bird sanctuary area.“
 
 The monitoring committee has, in a letter to the administration, expressed concern over NHAI not taking up plantation over the last five years. A copy has been marked to several high-ranking officers.
 
 Citing the report of a joint survey, the committee coordinator,  , said, “Several thousands of trees were axed since 2009 excluding those in the Karnala Bird sanctuary area. Had the authorities ensured tree plantation on both sides of the highway, the trees could have been grown now. Our offer for cooperation in planting of trees did not elicit any response from NHAI.“
 
 Replying to a query on how many trees the forest department has planted under com pensatory afforestation, Gangadharan said, “We have to check how much money was paid to them for afforestation, trees planted and where they were planted, with the forest department.“ Despite reminders, no reply was received till the time of going to press.
 
 As for plantation done, over five years, Gangadharan said, “Normally, this can be done once the highway gets its shape. At many places, construction is still in progress.“
 
 However, Thakur alleged, that NHAI and its concessionaire have neither shown interest in plantation nor planted trees.
 
