Nagpur: After a major dip in November, when demonetisation came into effect, property deals are looking up in the city again. The statistics indicate that only the middle and lower end properties are changing hands, with fewer deals in the top segment. Builders admit the trend, but said there was no chance of real estate prices coming down. A correction has already happened before demonetisation, say realtors. With almost 1% cut in home loan rates recently, builders are hoping the demand would go up in coming months. In November, a huge dip was seen in property transactions, which is attributed to the note ban. As against 5,422 properties registered in October 2016, there was a straight dip to 3,413 deals in November. The amount collected as stamp duty also went down by 36% to Rs42.21 crore in November as compared to the previous month. Things have improved in December. With 4,588 properties registered last month, the gap has narrowed as compared to the pre-demonetisation months. In November, the number of properties registered had gone down by 2,000 as compared to the month before, when note ban was not in force. The gap is now down to 834 in December, though the small shortfall remains. Figures for January will only be available at the month’s end, but builders are optimistic. However, a year-on-year comparison shows a different picture. In December 2015, 5,688 properties had been registered, bringing in stamp duty collection of Rs82.32 crore. The number of properties registered is down by only 20% in this December at 4,588, but the stamp duty mop up has fallen by over 40% at Rs48.93 crore. Sources monitoring the trend say deals being registered these days have been negotiated earlier. The actual impact of note ban on realty business will be seen in the coming months only. “The impact right now has been seen only in the top segment. However, 80% of the realty market in the city consists of properties in the range of Rs20 to Rs80 lakh. So, the builders are expecting demand to get an impetus as the banks have reduced interest rates,” said Gaurav Agarwalla, secretary of Confederation of Real Estate Developers of India’s (CREDAI), Nagpur chapter. Interest rates for home loans have come down to 8.35% as against over 9% before demonetisation. This will reduce the EMIs by almost 15%, which is expected to create a demand for homes purchased through credit, said Agarwalla. “It is too early to see the impact. The rates have decreased but the home loan advances are going on at a normal level,” said a regional manager of a PSU bank. Advances had taken a hit post demonetisation, but things are looking up as there is a slight improvement in the home loan segment numbers, added an officer of another nationalized bank. Ranjit Dani, a financial adviser, said the market has seen a major increase in the supply of real estate units. Fears of a new benami law have also brought properties purchased in dummy names into the market. Fearing action, the real owners of these properties are in a hurry to get rid of such properties, he said.