She is an architect and even helms a firm of her own. And by her own admission,   never harboured dreams of acting, let alone be a part of television. “I was content in my profession and it all changed the day Shruthi Naidu contacted me. She had seen my pictures on social media and wanted me to be a part of her venture,” recalls Shwetha. This was in 2014 and the serial was Shrirastu Shubhamastu.
 “I still remember my first day on the set. I didn’t know what I had gotten myself into when I was called to give my first shot. I remember giving umpteen takes and the director lost his patience and yelled at me. I was upset of course, but took him aside and told him that I’m new and that he will have to mentor me in acting. That’s when he understood my predicament and then on, I took baby steps in acting,” shares Shwetha. Soon after, a dance reality show called   came her way. “My husband Pradeepa was keen on making a foray into television and that’s how I came to be a part of this show. Of course, the opportunity to be mentored by experts in the field like Mayuri Upadhya and other renowned choreographers on the show was the icing on the cake. Yes, there are moments when the judges pointed out that my dancing was not up to their expectations and it hurt me. But in hindsight, it has made me a stronger person,” she says.
  Shwetha’s latest appearance on   is in the much-hyped daily soap Radha Ramana. “In my debut, my character was called Jhanvi and people would address me by that name whenever I stepped out. With  , even though it has been just over 10 days since its launch, people have already started calling me Radha. It’s a nice family-oriented story and I’m enjoying my role,” she says. But at the same time, she’s realistic about her stint on TV. “Be it TV or films, female actors have a short shelf life. Right now, I’m being offered lead roles. But there will be a time when such offers will dry up because female actors don’t have a long run here. And I have no intention of playing aunty and mother roles. So I will just go back to architecture,” she states.
