KOLKATA: Make the most of the chill in the next two days as the Met office predicts the mercury to rise after that. A   developing over Jammu and Kashmir and parts of north western India is set to interrupt flow of chilly Northerly wind. Once that happens it will push up both the maximum and minimum temperature.
 
 On Sunday, the minimum temperature at 13.1 degree Celsius was one notch below the normal mark. But the day temperature refused to slide below the normal mark, making the day warmer. The maximum temperature at 26.4 degree Celsius was just about the normal mark. The weathermen expects the day temperature two be slightly higher than the normal mark in the coming days while the night temperature will continue to hover below the normal.
  
 “Right now this region is getting regular inflow of the north westerly wind and hence we do not see much change in the weather in the next two days. But the mercury will start rising after that albeit slightly. This is due to a western disturbance developing over   and the North western region,” said  , deputy director general of meteorology at  .
  
 When a western disturbance happens it not only retards the intensity of icy wind blowing in from the Himalayan region. It also causes cyclonic circulation over the Bay of Bengal that in turn brings in moisture in abundance in the land from the bay. These twin factors push up the mercury. 
  
 The mercury has been playing see-saw on the Celsius scale for the past one week. It had dipped to the season’s lowest only Sunday last when the mercury had plunged to 11.2 degree Celsius. Even the day temperature dropped two degrees below the normal mark on the same day. But a western disturbance started playing havoc again and both the parameters started rising gradually from the next day.
  
 The minimum temperature had gone up as high as 15.1 degree Celsius on Friday. It started dropping the next day and by Sunday it touched down to 13.1. But the day temperature did not plunge below the normal mark making it warn during the day.
 
