Cleared/Anil

 Coimbatore: Three college students were killed after a speeding truck rammed their motorcycle on Pollachi–Palakkad Road here on Thursday afternoon. Police said the trio was on their way to a friend’s house after participating in Pongal celebrations at college when the fatal incident took place at Zamin Uthukuli.
 
 The deceased were identified as L Kalaiselvan, 20, of Unjavelampatti near Pollachi, P Karthick, 18, of Kalipalayam near Dharapuram in Tirupur district and M Soundhariyan, 20, of Puliyampatti near Pollachi. Kalaiselvan and Karthick were second year BSc (computer science) students of Sree Saraswathi Thyagaraja College in Pollachi and Soundhariyan second year BSc student of NGM College in Pollachi. They were, police said, close friends.
 
 According to the Pollachi west police, Pongal celebration was held at the Sree Saraswathi Thyagaraja College on Thursday. Soundhariyan joined Kalaiselvan and Karthick for the celebrations. After the event, 13 students left for Kalaiselvan’s house in six motorcycles and spent a couple of hours there. Later, they planned to visit their friend Ajay’s house at Zamin Uthukuli near Pollachi.
 
 The trio also joined others and was on the same motorcycle. Kalaiselvan rode the two-wheeler, while Karthick and Soundhariyan were pillion riders. The trio didn’t wear helmets. When they reached Sri Ram auto carriage on Pollachi-Palakkad Road near Nallur, a speeding truck coming from the opposite direction rammed their motorcycle. The trio was thrown off the motorcycle succumbed to severe head injuries on the spot. The truck driver stopped the vehicle and managed to escape.
 
 When alerted, Pollachi west police inspector M Mahendran and team reached the spot and sent the bodies to the city government hospital for postmortem. The bodies were later handed over to the relatives of the deceased.
 
 Preliminary investigation revealed that the truck was returning to Koduvai from Azhapuzha in Kerala and M Balamurugan, 39, of Sattur in Virudhunagar district, was at the wheel. Based on a compliant lodged by second year BSc student of Sree Saraswathi Thyagaraja college K Kavin Prabhu, 19, of Chittur in Palakkad, the police have registered a case under section 279 and 304 (A) of the Indian Penal Code against the truck driver. Further investigations were on, the police said.
 
 
