GAYA: The   has pulled up the vice chancellors (VCs) of the universities of the state including that of Magadh University, Bodh  , for allowing ‘non-teaching’ principals to continue in service beyond the stipulated retirement age of 62 years.

 The VCs have been given two weeks time to inform the Chancellor’s office and submit the action taken report ( ). They have also been asked to seek explanation from the principals concerned as to why they did not stop work after reaching the age of 62, the superannuation age of non-teaching employees.
 
 Through letter number 2711 dated September 26, Brijesh  , principal secretary to the governor-cum-Chancellor has reminded the VCs that following the enactment of the Bihar State Universities Act, the principals of the colleges of the state automatically became non-teaching employees whose retirement age is 62 year. The amendment excluding principals from the category of teachers became effective on December 27, 2012 and remained so till May 18, 2017 (the day on which, through another amendment the principals were included in the category of teachers).
 
 As per MU records, a couple of principals who should have retired from service in October 2014, retired 35 months later on September 23 this year. According to rough estimates, MU suffered a financial loss (salary and allowances minus pension) of about Rs 2 crore on account of continuation of six principals well beyond their scheduled superannuation date. The accumulated loss to all the universities of the state is estimated to be about Rs 10 crore, said a source.
 
 “Besides the financial loss incurred by the public exchequer on account of continuation in service beyond the retirement age, the administrative and academic decisions taken by such principals between the date on which they were deemed to have retired and the actual date of retirement, have become automatically challengeable in the court of law,” said a source.
 
 Interestingly, RK  , principal, SPM College, Udantpuri, in the light of the 2012 amendment to the Universities act, should have retired on October 14, 2014. But he was made to retire nearly three years later on September 23 this year. 
 
 According to Patna Univesity professor and university law expert Shiv Jatan Thakur, all the decisions of the said principal taken between November 2014 and September 2017 do not have any legal sanctity. He raised the issue about nine months back through a letter addressed to the Chancellor, claimed Thakur.
 
 Not only Majumdar, the decisions taken by the principal of Ram Lakhan Singh Yadav College, Aurangabad, during the same period also falls in the same category, Thakur added.
 
