GURUGRAM: Two days after three   men created a ruckus on the premises of a plotted colony in Sector 82, residents of Tulip Ivory, a housing society in  , have raised security concerns in the new sectors of the city after one of their domestic helps was allegedly molested by six drunk men on her way back home to Fazilpur.

 “My   was stopped by six men outside a liquor vend on Southern Peripheral Road (SPR). They groped her and assaulted her physically, leaving her swollen in her right ear. One of the men had harassed her earlier too,” said Ritu  , a resident.
 
 Kishore, however, said they have not yet formally approached the cops in the case as the maid was in pain. “We plan to go to the Badshapur police station on Friday morning. We have, however, already informed the police station through a WhatsApp message,” she said.
 
 According to society residents, the security problems are rising in the new sectors. “There are too many encroachments on the SPR, which has become a spot for many anti-social elements,” said Simrat Pal Singh, another resident of Tulip Ivory. “We plan to collectively approach the cops and ask for increased patrolling in the area,” she added.
 
 The crime took place on SPR which connects several societies in sectors 69, 70 and 71. Residents said they have been raising concerns over the law and order situation in the area for a while now.
 
 “Several such cases have been reported from this area in the recent past, starting from spotting of a mutilated body on an empty plot to two labourers being found dead at a construction site. The trend is quite evident. I think it’s high time that the district administration took a clue and did something to beef up security in the area,” said Amit Saxena, a resident of Tulip White.
 
 Residents said though 57 new sectors were developed, very few police stations have been added to match up and in most cases the village police stations have been given additional charges.
 
 TOI had on Wednesday reported that three drunk created a scene outside of Vatika India Next in Sector 82 on Monday night by allegedly blocking the society gate and not letting residents enter. 
 
 Around 70 residents were forced to wait outside the society gate in their cars as the men threatened to attack them.
 
 
