GURUGRAM: Angry over the developer merging upkeep and power charges, hundreds of   residents blocked traffic on an arterial road connecting   and Sector 56 on Saturday morning for over three hours.

 But the protest against the “illegal” bill soon turned ugly when a commotion started between the residents, cops and commuters trapped in the ensuing snarl on the road outside the housing colony’s gate number 1.
 
 The protesters, however, dispersed only after some residents’ representatives went and met officials of   at its site office in Sector 52 and secured an assurance that the developer would look into their demands of separating the power charges from the maintenance bill.
 
 Residents said the situation could have been easily avoided had any senior government or police official come to the spot and given them a hearing.
 
 “Braving the hot weather, we took to the streets around 11 am, hoping that authorities will pay heed to our demand and direct the builder to raise separate bills for power and maintenance today itself. But no senior official turned up at the spot,” said  , a resident.
 
 “We are not asking for anything unreal, but something very basic. We had paid for the amenities when we purchased houses in Ardee. It has been close to two decades. Looks like the senior town planner, district town planner and the department of town and country planning have all turned a blind eye to our just demand,” said Geeta Joshi, another resident.
 
 Residents alleged that despite their repeated requests, the SHO of Sector 53 police station did not call any senior government official for mediation in the matter and even declined to call the developer.
 
 “We were asked why the developer should come to the road. Instead, we should go and meet the builder’s representatives in its office,” said  , another resident. 
 
 “Anyway, one of the officials at the developer’s site office has given us in writing that the two bills will not be combined until a decision is taken in this regard,” she added.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, the developer could not be contacted. SHO Rahul, however, said things were under control and an official from the tehsil was on the spot.
 
 TOI had earlier reported that Ardee Infra had raised a bill clubbing maintenance and power charges, after many residents did not pay the upkeep charges due to the poor maintenance of power infrastructure in the area. 
 
