KANNUR: Police have registered a case on the   of a 26-year-old officer cadet,  , from the Indian Naval Academy (INA),   in the early hours of Thursday, after the family alleged  

 According to his family, Sooraj used to complain that he was frequently harassed by the senior officers, and he would never commit suicide.
 
 “The son of a former sailor, he joined service as a sailor and later passed the examination to become an officer trainee in 2014. His higher officials were not in good terms with him and they used to often harass him,” said his brother  .
 
 After Sooraj joined officer training in January 2014, he was terminated by the officials accusing him of cheating in examination. However, he approached the Armed Forces Tribunal, which reinstated him but the harassment continued, the family said.
 
 “The entire allegation raised against him was fake and they targeted him because he was the son of a sailor and became an officer trainee through hard work,” said Sanoj.
 
 “Even if it was a case of suicide, the INA officials are responsible for it,” he said.
 
 INA authorities said Sooraj apparently jumped from a building in the evening on Wednesday and was found in an unconscious state on the floor of the academic wing at 5.30pm.
 
 He was immediately evacuated to Indian Naval Hospital Navjivani and administered IV Fluid resuscitation. He was later shifted to Pariyaram Medical College and Hospital, but he developed two episodes of cardiac arrest and died at 2.30am, an INA statement said. The INA also said he was caught for cheating in examination on Wednesday and an inquiry was initiated against him. Probably this made him take such an extreme step, they said.
 
 An INA spokesperson said he was earlier removed from service for examination malpractice, and though the tribunal asked the authorities to give him another chance considering his age, they had agreed that he was guilty. He was taken back in January, they said.
 
 “There was no harassment as alleged by the family and we think he took the extreme step after he was caught again for the malpractice and he feared disciplinary action,” said the spokesperson.
 
 Southern Naval Command has ordered a probe into the incident. 
 
 
