NAGPUR: A flight simulator inside a bus caught the interest of engineering students of Yashwantrao Chavan College of Engineering (YCCE) and Rajiv Gandhi College of Engineering and Research (RGCER),  , on Tuesday. The vehicle has been termed as an   (IPEV) and is an initiative by   (IAF) under its publicity wing Disha.

 The vehicle is a modified luxury bus which houses a basic flight simulator capable of simulating flight characteristics of IAF’s cargo and fighter aircraft like Sukhohi Su-30. Scale models of   (UAV), Mirage 2000, MiG 29, Rafale and a gravity suit (used by fighter pilots) were on display.
 
 The   will make its way to a new college each day in the city. On Wednesday, it will be displayed at Priyadarshini College of Engineering, Hingna Road. The IPEV was flagged off from New Delhi on August 18, 2016 and will travel to 23 cities in the country before concluding its journey back in the capital on February 17. The IPEV will visit Bhopal next week.
 
 Wing commander Samir Gangakhedkar, public relations officer (defence), Nagpur, was present at the venue along with staff of IAF. Training and placement officers Neeraj Wakhare and Anuj Rai of YCCE and RGCER respectively helped organize the programme.
 
 According to Wakhare, third year students of the departments of mechanical, electrical, information and technology and civil engineering were the target audience for this programme. “The insight students will gain from this initiative will help them decide their career prospects,” he said.
 
 Before the students visited the exhibition, officers gave a presentation which informed them of the career prospects in IAF.
 
 Interacting with students, Gangakhedkar gave vital information about the functions of radar system, operations of air traffic control and communication technology used by IAF. “It was refreshing to see excitement among students. They were genuinely interested in technology currently in use by the Air Force as the motive behind this programme was to create awareness about the profession,” said Gangakhedkar.
 
 (Reporting by Mohnish Nelarwar)
 
 
