KOCHI: The occasional power disruption could not dampen their spirits nor did it matter whether the music was on or not. Once the festivities began the students from   joined the local participants and started throwing colours on their friends. They got hold of the 'pichkaris' and drenched each other. They danced and posed for the cameras. 

 The 16 secondary school students along with faculty members reached the premises of a private building at Mattancherry as early as 8 am on Sunday to celebrate Holi. A few members of the Gujarati community had assembled there to welcome the foreigners and to initiate them to the celebrations. Heaps of various hues of 'gulal' and 'abeer' were kept on a pedestal and water was kept filled in barrels. Children and youngsters from the Guajarati community also joined them.
 
 The visiting students belonged to different countries. "We just loved the experience. It's amazing to be part of the celebrations. This our second trip to India with students. Last time we came with another group. These trips are intended to introduce students to other cultures. We came to Kochi after visiting some places in Tamil Nadu," said  , who hails from the  , and a faculty with Hong Kong International School.
 
 Brain Oliver, another faculty with the school said it was important for students to understand the various cultures and to be introduced to these. "During our trip last year we participated in Holi, and that was our first experience," he said.
 
 Mahesh N Joshi, vice-president of  , who hosted the event said when they were informed that some foreigners wanted to take part in Holi celebrations they decided to hold the event at the premises of a godown. "It's a two day festival. Our Holi celebrations begin with the lighting of Holi fire on Sunday evening. This ritual symbolizes the victory of good over evil. On the next day, we hold the festival of colours welcoming a new year. As Monday being a working day, it would not be possible for office-goers to celebrate. So it was decided to celebrate during the weekend," he said.
 
