NOIDA/GREATER NOIDA: Residents and daily commuters have requested   CEO Deepak Agarwal to build foot overbridges at three locations on the Noida-Greater Noida expressway in Noida and one on Yamuna expressway in Greater Noida.

 The four locations where FOBs are urgently needed are near Mahamaya Flyover, Sector 38; Supertech Emerald Court and ATS Green Village, Sector 93A; ATS Pristine, Sector 150; and Galgotias University in Sector 17A, Yamuna expressway, Greater Noida.
 
 According to residents, in the absence of FOBs, accidents happen periodically when jaywalking pedestrians are hit by vehicles that are plying at a high permissible speed on the expressways. Other areas where FOBs are needed, according to them, include the Sector 71 crossing; in Sector 62 near Fortis Hospital; Sector 21; Sector 25; and aboove the underpass in Sector 37.
 
 Rajiv Goyal, resident of Noida’s Sector 12, commutes to Greater Noida daily for work at power discom NPCL. On Thursday (March 16) he saw 15-20 students run across the Noida expressway in front of Supertech and ATS Green in Sector 93A, and having a close shave from a car which screeched to a halt in fron of them.
 
 According to data from the traffic police, in 2015 totally there were 272 accidents. Out of them, at least 51 occurred because of pedestrians crossing the road. This was the second highest number after 98 accidents caused by speeding vehicles. The main areas where these accidents occurred included Chijarsi cut, Gijodh chowk, Barola and Gaur City where pedestrians were killed.
 
 Over the last five years, accidents on the Noida-Greater Noida expressway have gone up from 49 in 2012 to 62 in 2016. While at least 62 accidents occurred on the expressway in 2016, 70 occurred in 2015. The traffic police identified 108 different hotspots (between 2013 and 2015), of which the area near Advant building on the expressway witnessed 27 accidents in 2015.
 
 Many students as well as daily commuters use the expressway to commute to their schools/colleges and offices. Also, many residents of the housing societies on the expressway, who visit their local markets or cross over to their sectors tend to jaywalk on the Noida-Greater Noida expressway. 
 
 Authority CEO Deepak Agarwal has noted the problem and instructed DCEO Saumya Srivastava to look into the matter. “I’ve asked DCEO Srivastava to conduct a survey for the FOBs and float a tender on the PPP mode giving them advertisements rights,” Agarwal said.
 
 Brig Ashok Hak (retd), senior vice-president of FONRWA, called for an FOB at the Botanical Garden Metro station in Sector 38A. “An FOB with escalator at the Metro station is a long-standing request from senior citizens of the area,” Hak said.
 
 (With inputs from Shikha Salaria)
 
 
