HYDERABAD: The men in black won hearts at Prasads Imax on Monday evening. The place reverberated with “Bharat Mata Ki Jai“ slogans as commandos of the   ( ) demonstrated dare-devilry. Dozens of commandos armed with assault rifles and pistols swung from one end of the rope to another and dropped down from top to bottom sliding on a rope. All in a jiffy.

 In an operation against terrorists, every single second is important. Every move vital.For some time, the commandos turned spidermen. They raced up three floors right up to the roof of Prasads by walking up the wall. They came down just the same way . Some lay there hanging. Some upside down. But all of them alert with their weapons.
 
 The NSG operation gave an insight into how elite commandos carried out the operation against terrorists in Mumbai.
 
 “The commandos are physically fit by training and mentally agile all the time,“ explained Col Santosh Prasad of the NSG. A 32member group of NSG men are on a 40-day expedition across the country covering a distance of 7,000 km. During their stopover in Hyderabad, the commandos took up the programme and gave demonstration to show India's capabilities in handling terror attacks. “You can say we are the best in the world. We also adopt good practices from other countries just as they adopt ours,“ Col Santosh Prasad told TOI.
 
 During the NSG commandos demonstration, the elite   of the state police also participated in it. The Octopus is also trained to handle operations such as what NSG get to tackle.
 
 In a role enacted on how ter rorists are caught and unarmed, the dog squad of the Octopus comprising `Hunter' and Baiko' also a played a crucial role.
 
 There was also a face-to-face unarmed combat demonstrated by the special forces to pin down `terrorists'. “The crowd response was tremendous,“ an NSG commando told TOI. For every action performed by the elite commandoes, the crowd went into ruptures shouting “Vande Mataram“ and “Bharat Mata Ki Jai“. At the end of it all, when the National Anthem was played, the nationalistic spirit was evident on every face.
 
