THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Affronted by the findings of the   bureau that the department tops among the   in the state, the revenue department has instructed its field office heads to conduct   in the offices under them.

 In an order issued by revenue secretary to all the heads of field-level revenue offices on May 3, it has been asked that the senior officials including the district collectors should conduct impromptu inspections in the offices under them. The order has also asked the district collectors to set up anti-corruption squads at the taluk-levels and also to take steps to reduce the involvement of middlemen from revenue offices. 
 
 Among the 61 departments analysed by the vigilance and anti-corruption bureau, 13 have been found to be those with very high rates of corruption. The revenue department that contributes 9.24% of the total corruption is at the second spot behind local self-government department (10.34%).
 
 The order also asked all the district collectors to publish the phone numbers of vigilance and anti-corruption bureau, office of the revenue minister, land revenue commissioner and the district collector in all the revenue offices so that the public can contact them in case any of the officer is seeking a bribe in cash or kind. It has also instructed that those officials who are found to be involved in corruption should be penalised properly, and they should be moved to insignificant posts.
 
 The revenue offices which are one of the main public interface of the government, is also one of the departments where the involvement of middlemen is a contributing factor to corruption.
 
 Despite the government warning of stringent action if middlemen are entertained in village offices, a surprise random check in village offices led by land revenue commissioner A T James in November last year had found that the intervention by middlemen is still rampant. In his report then, the land revenue commissioner had given a note to all the offices that under no circumstances should middlemen be entertained in the day-to- day working of the village offices and such people who approach the village offices with requirements of different individuals should be kept under scrutiny. He also said the village officials should ensure that the public is made aware that the services that are offered from the village offices can be availed without any kind of intervention of the agents. 
 
 Vigilance and   also had given detailed report to the revenue department after conducting surprise checks in village offices titled Operation Gramam last year, about the widespread corrupt practices in the department offices.
 
