A 35-year-old   had to run for almost a kilometre while   in order to escape from a gang of six machete-wielding miscreants who made a   on him.
 
 Earlier the victim, identified as YL Ramesh, a resident of Kondappa Layout in Yelahanka, had advised the accused to stay away from his locality as they were creating nuisance by gathering there and consuming alcohol.
 
 This advice had irked the main accused, identified as Raju alias Guru of Srirampura, a rowdy sheeter in city’s rural police limits.
 
 He along with his associates attacked Ramesh when he was talking to one of his friends in his SUV near the Kondappa Layout ground a few days ago.
 
 “Raju is spoiling the youths of Kondappa Layout area. He comes with his associates and gangs up in the area. In the night, they consume alcohol and create nuisance and disturb the locals. I had advised Raju to keep away from spoiling the youths which could have irked him. I was talking to my friend Gopal in my SUV when the accused made a brutal murder attempt on me. While bleeding profusely, I had to run for nearly a kilometre seeking help. Finally, one of my friends in a car came to my rescue and took me home,” Ramesh told BM. Ramesh later went to a nearby private hospital where he is undergoing treatment. “I have to undergo surgery,” Ramesh said.
 
 Ramesh’s friend Gopal too was injured in the attack and has been hospitalised. The victim’s SUV has also been damaged by the accused.
 
 Ramesh is able to identify two of the six accused - Raju and Raghu. “The accused have been taken into custody and are being questioned to ascertain their role in other crimes in the division. One of them is a rowdy sheeter in the city’s rural division. The remaining are his associates and are involved in petty crimes,” said an officer part of the investigations.
 
 A case of attempt to murder (IPC 307), intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace (IPC 504), rioting (IPC 147) has been registered against the accused. The North East division police have registered a case and are investigating.?
 
