CHANDIGARH: Students from class IX to XII in  's   are busy studying about RSS ideologue Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay these days.

 To mark Upadhyay's birth centenary , the state education department has told the schools to hold a quiz on the RSS stalwart on September 25.
 
 This has led to an angry reaction from opposition parties who are accusing the BJP government of misusing its power and politicizing education in the state.The BJP, however, sees nothing wrong in promoting the ideas of a man they see as an important thinker.
 
 The government has even deputed two IAS officers and four state civil services officers as observers to ensure that schools hold the quiz next week. Besides the quiz, students will have to perform a play, recite poetry on Upadhyay's life, make posters on social issues raised by the RSS ideologue and hold discussions on his ideology and achievements during morning prayers from September 18 to 22.
 
 The 16-page booklet sent to schools to prepare students for the quiz has 75 questions on Upadhyay , one of the founders of Bharatiya Jana Sangh. It contains questions like, full name of Upadhyay , his parents' names, siblings' names, when they died, Upadhyay's educational achievements, how and where he died and the periodicals he launched.
 
 National secretary of INLD and former bureaucrat R S Chaudhary says, “What will students learn from Upadhayay's lineage or his contribution to RSS and Jan Sangh? The condition of education in state-run schools is very poor. This needs to improve rather than safforanising the education system.“ Some parents said they wanted out and had sought transfer certifi cates because they just could not bring themselves to send their children to the school any more. Other parents who had turned up with their kids said they had instructed their children not to loiter alone in school while some others expressed their helplessness at being unable to shift their kids to other schools mid-session.
 
 Darshan Kaur, grandmother of Class VII student Dipanshi Verma, said, “We have told Dipanshi not to wander about in the hallway , or go to the washroom, alone.“ Abhijeet Chaudhary , a neighbour of the bereaved Thakur family , said, “I had no choice but to bring my son to this school. Had the administration not taken over, I wouldn't have done that.“
 
 Several parents said the state government's decision to take over the school for three months was reassuring but the school had to do more. The school, meanwhile, announced two new faces to head its faculty Sabu Atthikal (principal) and Sandya Lal Das (vice-principal).
 
 Parents were also uneasy over the fact that they had received only one message of assurance on the Ryan Parent Portal since Pradhyumn's murder. It said the school had appointed a safety and security officer and that it will issue all parents an ID, install addi tional CCTV cameras, appoint maids to cover washrooms and premises etc.
 
 Sanjay Jhangra, father of Class IX student Tanisha, said, “Sending one message does not assure us of our kids' safety.“ Subhash Garg who witnessed Pradhyumn being carried to hospital, said, “New principal, vice-principal, more CCTV cameras -does that ensure our kids are safe?
 There's still no parents' association in the school.“
 
 Some parents, though, expressed satisfaction at the security measures taken by school.Arvind, father of Class IX student Rakhi, said, “I'm comfortable with the measures the school has taken -appointing permanent maids for washrooms and counsellors for students, etc.“
 
 Pradhyumn's father Barun expressed unhappiness at the school being reopened.“The CBI has been asked to look into the case. What was the hurry to open now?“
 
