MUMBAI: In yet another frontal attack on the Congress-NCP’s iron grip on key  , the BJP-led   has decided to give farmers taking loans from district central co-operative banks   to elect the board of directors that controls these banks.

 DCC banks are key rural lending institutions which disburse nearly 40-45% of all crop loans in the state. The board of directors of these banks is considered powerful and only a select few hold on to the position for years. There are 30 DCC banks in the state, most of them controlled by the  . 
 
 The cumulative deposits with the DCC banks is nearly Rs 66,000 crore. The bid to broadbase voting rights, coming on the back of a massive loan waiver, is the second significant outreach by the regime in the agriculture sector.
 
 Currently, elections for the board of directors are held every five years and only a select few nominated members cast their vote. 
 
 These voters are nominated from village level rural co-operatives like the primary agriculture credit societies (PACS), primary milk collection centres, sugar co-operatives and animal husbandry institutions. These have presence in almost all the villages and act as agents of all the district level co-operatives. 
 
 For years, Congress-NCP leaders have been running most of these co-operatives, be it the sugar mills in western Maharashtra or the milk co-operatives which procure farm produce. This has created a system of patronage for farmers. “People managing these village-level institutions are also close to political parties and the people they nominate as voters are also linked to the party in some way or the other and the monopoly never seems to end,” said an official. “The idea is to increase the number of voters, as a small set of voters can easily be manipulated and controlled,” said another official. On an average, one DCC bank covers 1,500-2,000 villages, and the number of voters for one bank is nearly 4,000-5,000, while the number of farmers who take loans from a DCC bank are around 1.5-2 lakh. That’s how small the group of voters is, explained an official. 
 
 Senior officials said that this will also help the farmers in a big way, because it is a known that getting a crop loan on priority also requires good relations with the people managing the bank. 
 
 The state government had formed a committee under the additional commissioner of co-operation department to study the framework of the new rule. The committee has submitted a positive report and implementation will begin soon, said sources from the department.
 
 This will be the BJP’s second attempt to snatch control of key institutions from the opposition, it has already made ammendments in the act to allow farmers to vote in the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC).
 
 
