JAIPUR: The devastated father of the 15-year-old girl, who was allegedly gang raped in Churu on December 24, is praying to God that such incidents does not happen to any other girl.

 “Yeh meri beti ke saath hua, magar kisi aur ki beti ke saath aisa naho (this happened to my daughter but I pray such incidents does not happen to anyone). Mujhe koi razinama nahi chahiye, main chahta hoon darinde ko saza milni chahiye (I do not want any compromise, I want the accused to be punished),“ Mukesh (named changed), the girl's father, said on Wednesday at the Rehabilitation Research Centre of Sawai Man Singh Hospital.
 
 “She cannot move. How can a father look at the daughter who has injuries all over her body? I feel terrible to see her in such a condition.The lower part of the body is not moving at all. Above one of her eyes, she has suffered a severe injury . The doctors have put 13 stitches. She could have become blind in one eye, if the injury was on the eye,“ Mukesh said.
 
 He alleged that the accused had not only gang raped her but tried to kill her.“They used their bike to crush her backbone,“ he said.
 
 While recalling the incident, Mukesh said, “I was in Bhuj in Gujarat when I got the call about my daughter's serious state,“ he said. Mukesh works in a company in Bhuj, which produces salt.
 
 “They tried to kill her. But my daughter pleaded with them for life. They left her on one condition that she would not speak about it (rape) to anyone. She remained silent for some days because of fear.But when she told us about it, we filed a FIR against the accused,“ Mukesh, who has two sons and two daughters, said.
 
 He said that after the incident, the family first rushed her to a hospital in Sujangarh and then took her to Bikaner. The government hospital in Bikaner referred her to SMS Hospital in Jaipur on December 27. Since, then the girl has been undergoing treatment here. The girl is studying in Class 11.
 
 The family of the accused is running a private school in a building, which was given by Mukesh's uncle two years ago.
 
 The doctors are putting all their efforts to help the girl recover. “The injuries are severe. She has fractured ribs. Also, she has lower limp paralysis due to fractures in the D6-D7 vertebra. Doctors have done a MRI of the spine.After we get the of MRI report, we will be able to plan a spine surgery ,“ said Dr Ajit Singh, additional superintendent, SMS Hospital.
 
 He said the medical team has also not yet confirmed rape. “We are waiting for the report,“ Dr Singh said.
 
 Public representatives, women's commission and child commission officials kept visiting the hospital throughout the day to express their solidarity with the girl. Health minister Kalicha ran Saraf met the family and assured them of help. He directed the hospital administration to provide treatment to the girl free-of-cost and provide food and lodging facilities for the victim's family.
 
 He said that he had spoken o Churu's superintendent of police to investigate the matter and give a report within seven days.
 
 
 
 
 Chairperson of the Rajasthan State Commission for Women   on Wednesday called for stringent laws and immediate action against the rape accused in Churu incident. Sharma was interacting with the media at SMS Hospital after she met the minor girl, who was allegedly gang raped and left badly injured after being run over with a bike. “In most cases, the accused manage to get away. There is need to amend existing laws and bring in more stringent rules to ensure that immediate action is taken against such culprits,“ said Sharma. The chairperson also spoke to Churu SP, seeking details of the case and directed him to take prompt action. Sharma also briefed chief minister Vasundhara Raje about the developments in the case. “Yet another brutal rape has once again exposed the deplorable law and order situation in the state. Instead of working on it, home minister Gulab Chand Kataria is busy challenging Opposition leaders to debates,“ accused Archana Sharma, Congress vice-president.
 
