UP Police's much-talked about   is not only a hit online, but is also garnering praise offline. The department was awarded the 2017 Social Media for Empowerment Award in the Public Relations category at a gala held in Delhi last week. The award, given by Delhi-based NGO Digital Empowerment Foundation, was decided by a jury consisting of social media influencers, journalists, technocrats, and leading IT professionals. The Social Media for Empowerment Awards honour the social media accounts that work towards development and change across South Asia. This year, over 162 nominees from India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Nepal were considered for the awards in eight categories. 

    shared the award in Public Relations category with Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation for their It's My Bus initiative.
 
  UP Police, regarded as the world’s largest police force, adopted the Twitter Seva in September 2016 for "better addressing public grievances and concerns". The Twitter Seva is directly supervised by the Director General of Police, and is handled by Additional SP  , PRO to the DGP.
 
  At the launch of the service last year, the then UP DGP Javeed Ahmed had called the service essential for enabling "large scale police response to citizen tweets in real time." UP Police is the only state police force in the country to have a Twitter service across its rank and file.
 
 
  
  
 
 
  The award was received by Rahul Srivastav, who heads the Twitter Seva. Talking about the significance of the honour, he says, "This Twitter service has caused UP Police to undergo a paradigm shift in the way we work. The fact that we are now mentally prepared to accept that we will be questioned every day, by every person on social media, and we are accountable to people who traditionally had no power is important. That shift has been the most important result of this service. And that change has come in the public as well. Face to face, nobody would dare to criticize, confront a police officer or say anything about your corruption. But social media, being largely anonymous, gives the general public the confidence to call out wrong in the police system wherever it may be happening. It gives the common man in the street the power to question us every day. That elevates the level of interaction between the police and the public."
 
  However, Srivastav adds that the road hasn’t been rosy for the department’s Twitter Seva. "Police all over India is not in a mental frame to allow people to question them. We work in an insular kind of setup where we want everything to be guarded and don't want to share much with people. Initially, we met with a lot of adverse reactions from senior police officers. There was a lot of apprehension and criticism. They used to say you have put us in a glass house for everyone to see," he says.
 
  Srivastav further adds, "Systematically, one by one, they started to get a hang of it and with directions coming from the DGP office, most adapted willingly to the changing paradigm. Now, we have come to a stage where we can look forward to the next step, which is expansion and institutionalization."
 
  The department now wants to institutionalize the service and free it from dependence on individuals. Srivastav says, "The previous DGP was very supportive of the service and that's how it came into being. The current administration also sup ports and I am running it now. But what happens when I move away or someone new takes over? Our next step is to institutionalize this service and make it a part of the policing system in the state, so that it does not get affected by repositioning or retirement of few key individuals."
 
 
