MEERUT: The Centre's decision to allow duty-free import of raw sugar to boost domestic supplies and   amid production fall across the country has proved to be too bitter a pill to swallow for farmers here. While cane production dipped by 20% last year across the country, UP witnessed a bumper crop. With prices already slumping, farmers here fear that if import of sugar is allowed, locally produced sugar will find it hard to compete. As a result, sugar mills will not be able to pay farmers for cane. The mills already owe farmers over Rs 8,000 crore (Rs 6,000 crore dues and Rs 2,000 crore interest). 

  According to estimates, the decision to import duty-free sugar will push sugar prices to Rs 31 or Rs 32 a kg which the sugar mills at present are selling at Rs 40 a kg. The mill will not be able to compete with lower prices. 
 
  "The cane farmers in UP are struggling with the issue of getting payments from mills. The amount of unpaid is huge. "The BJP had promised that if it comes to power in UP, it will ensure that mills clear pending dues within 14 days. That has not happened. On top of that, the Centre has taken this decision to allow duty-free import of raw sugar. This will impact the cane farmers adversely as the mills will use the fall sugar prices as an excuse to not pay up the dues. So, instead of ensuring that previous dues are paid, the government is creating a situation wherein dues will increase further. We demand that government roll back this decision," said  , president of the   (KSS). 
 
  As cane farmer Vinesh Rana who has four acres of land in Chaprauli said since November, two sugar mills owed him a of total Rs 3.5 lakh. "I haven't been paid after November. I have only received payment for 10 days. With such large sums pending already, I don't know if it wise to import sugar duty-free. The government should roll back this decision or else farmers of UP will suffer,"said Rana. "The BJP speaks in different tongues before and after elections. During campaigning, they party said it will come up with pro-farmer policies. Now, even the loan waiver is a half way measure. The decision on duty-free import of sugar is a blow to farmers," said Monu Choudhary, a cane farmer at Daurala. Sugar mill owners say there will be losses but it is too soon to say how it will impact farmers. "There is bound to be some impact. But, it may only be negligible. It is too soon to say how or whether it will impact farmers," said  , deputy general manager of the Upper Doab Sugar mill in Shamli. 
 
