PATNA: The income tax (I-T) sleuths on Thursday raided the premises and educational establishments of former RJD MLC  , a close aide of RJD president Lalu Prasad, and unearthed around 50 bank accounts with transactions of nearly Rs1 crore. All the bank accounts have been frozen.

 Anwar, popularly known as ‘Kebab Mantri’ during Lalu-Rabri regime, owns two schools — one at Phulwarisharif (Mother’s  ) and another at Jagdeo Path — besides one BEd college (Mother’s Institute of Technical Academy) in Phulwarisharif area. He is also the chairman of Awami Bihar Co-operative Bank situated at Sabzibagh. Raids were also conducted on the Jagdeo Path residence of Parvez Alam, one of Anwar’s employees.
 
 Senior I-T officials claimed the raids were conducted on the intelligence input about unaccounted transactions through bank accounts opened allegedly in the name of people working for Anwar. “Simultaneous raids were conducted on the residential and business premises of Anwar and his two sons at Sabzibagh, Phulwarisharif and Jagdeo Path. Several accounts are suspected to have been used for transacting unaccounted money,” said a senior Patna circle I-T official in the rank of deputy commissioner.
 
 The sources claimed Rs2-3 lakhs were transacted through most of the 50 accounts. The I-T officials said it would take a day or two to find the amount transacted through those bank accounts.
 
 Anwar, an MLC in the early 90s, had hogged the limelight when his video footage showed him helping Lalu in wearing his shoes in East Champaran in March 2015.
 
 Former Prime Minister I K Gujral had stayed at Anwar’s house in Sabzibagh when he contested the 1991   polls from Patna on a   ticket. The poll, however, was countermanded due to reports of large-scale rigging.
 
 BJP leaders have welcomed the I-T move. “Nobody, including public figures, is above law. This move shows that the government machinery is keeping an eye on every person,” said Sanjay Mayukh, MLC and BJP spokesperson.
 
 JD(U) spokesperson Sanjay Singh, however, said the Grand Alliance government in state would wait for the final I-T department findings before taking any stand on the issue.
 
 
