HYDERABAD: Wednesday witnessed a mixed sense of hope and despair among Hyderabad's green brigade that has been relentlessly fighting to protect the   from being bulldozed for the state government's flyover project. While some appeared optimistic about the   (NGT) not giving a clear go-ahead to the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) ­ which proposes to cut right through the park's walkway ­ others insisted that it was a lost battle.Environmentalists and acti vists feared that the Union ministry would oblige Telangana by granting the state its wish of reducing the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of   to `zero'. This, in turn, would give the local authorities the green light to dive straight into the multi-crore venture, albeit at the cost of the city's lone surviving green space. “The way I look at it, it's a no go forward, no go backward scenario,“ said senior advocate L Ravichander about the NGT verdict. As someone who has been closely following the case, he said the government, while riding on the `high horse of development', was turning its back on issues that affected the `sensitivity of the country'.

 “While we are preparing to fight traffic congestion, we aren't bothering about finding ways to provide drinking water to people, or to bring back the temperatures in the city to 33-34 degree Celsius,“ Ravichander said.
 
 His concerns were echoed by many others, who felt the environment was fast becoming one of the least priorities of every government.
 
 But for those like   or professor   ­ the two implead petitioners in the NGT case ­ all hope isn't lost just yet. “I am 100 per cent certain that we'll be successful in saving the KBR Park. It is a serious environmental issue that cannot be ignored,“ said Singh even as Reddy maintained that experts, environmentalists and common residents would do everything to save the national park. “We will review the judgement carefully before planning our future strategy ,“ Reddy added.
 
 Regular walkers at the park also vowed to continue with their `Save KBR' movement till as long as it was needed. “For five years now, I have been visiting this park every morning.Like many others, it is an integral part of my life now. While I am not so aware of the legal nuances, I will continue to support any activity that is designed to safeguard the interests of KBR,“ said  , a resident of Banjara Hills.
 
