AHMEDABAD: Camera traps deep in the   jungles have taken photographic evidence of the presence of Indian grey wolves in  . This is the first time the wolf has been caught on camera. This not only surprised forest department officials but has also left experts puzzled as to how the wolves survive in the sanctuary beside big predators like the leopard.

 There are only 250-odd wolves left in Gujarat and about 1,500 in the country. The drastic fall in the population of Indian wolves from 1,374 in 2000 to around 250 recently is a cause for concern for wildlife experts in Gujarat.
 
 Deputy conservator of forests   said that when scanning video from cameras in   sanctuary they found an   in the area. We scanned it again and later again and the same wolf was captured.
 
 Kumar said there were reports of wolf scat found in the area, but there was no camera capture. In 2015, there was a report from a wildlife expert who had taken photographs but it was not in Shoolpaneshwar.
 
 Shoolpaneshwar in Narmada district is home to sloth bears, leopard, rhesus macaques, four horned antelope, barking deer, pangolins, herpetofauna and birds including the Alexandrine parakeet. There was no documented report of wolves in the area.
 
 Kumar said the wolf is found in grassland, deserts and even coastal areas of Saurashtra, but they were not found in the sanctuary which has dense vegetation. “We have already brought it to the notice of the principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) G K Sinha and have requested a detailed study of the habitat and how they survive in this dense jungle,” said Kumar.
 
 “It is totally unexpected to find a wolf in Shoolpaneshwar. Wolves are know to be found in open and grassland areas. They have taken over in the areas where cheetahs were found. However, finding one in Shoolpaneshwar is strange and surprising. As this is documented by photographic evidence, one cannot doubt the finding. It is also to find wolves in area which has leopards. A detailed study needs to be undertaken by the forest department,” says Bharat Jethwa, an expert. Jethwa has studied wolves extensively.
 
 
