 Arun Jaitley has placed bold, and some would argue timely, bets on small companies as panacea for jobless growth. A slew of concessions to the small corporate taxpayer — 5% cut in income tax, change in the tax audit threshold limit, a longer carry-forward of minimum alternate tax (MAT) credit and an extended window for startups to claim three-year tax holiday — are expected to boost investments and buoyancy in a sector with the biggest multiplier effect in job creation. The notable move was the reduction in corporate tax from 30% to 25% for companies with an annual revenue of up to Rs 50 crore. This comes at a time when the government’s demonetization of high value currencies in November had hurt the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) the most. The Nikkei India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index for January reported a modest growth after contracting in the two immediately preceding months, driven primarily by intermediate goods, the mainstay of  . 

 Jaitley’s tax concessions to smaller companies carried a strong rationale: About 2.85 lakh MSMEs which filed tax returns had an effective corporate tax of slightly over 30%, compared to around 25% paid by companies with more than Rs 500 crore in profits. Bigger companies had better avenues to claim a plethora of incentives and exemptions even though smaller enterprises were driving the velocity of economic activity. Jaitley said about 96% of the MSME taxpayers would benefit from this proposal, which will accelerate growth. 
 
 Small traders and businessmen with a turnover of Rs 2 crore or less can opt for the presumptive tax scheme — the Finance Bill intends to legislate a lower rate of 6% as against 8% on deemed profits if the turnover is received via cheque or digital means. A businessman whose entire turnover of Rs 2 crore is via non-cash will save Rs 1.24 lakh. Taxpayers who have opted for the presumptive scheme will not be required to get their books audited for taxation. 
 
 “SMEs are the backbone of industrial growth and job creation. The   proposals are a booster for growth,” said Gopal Jiwarajka, president of PHDCCI, an industry chamber focused on small and medium enterprises. “The Budget benefits will also make our products more competitive and cost efficient, as corporate tax benefits come in,” he added. Expanding internal accruals along with a government push to lend more to smaller companies could trigger a robust capex cycle, boosting job generation in regional and rural markets. A government data released last year said the MSME sector through 46 million units created over 100 million jobs, the largest provider of non-farm livelihood across the country. The Budget sops are likely to improve the fund-raising prospects of smaller companies. According to merchant bankers, about 30-35 small and medium enterprises have filed offer documents for IPOs and another 60-70 are preparing to file their documents. “Price points for SME listings will go up since the Budget announcements are a big positive for these companies,” said Mahavir Lunawat, MD, Pantomath Advisory Services, which advises small companies listing on the bourses. The Budget’s thrust on the rural economy will spur investor action in smaller companies across agro & food processing, dairy and logistics. The increased government spending in infra and tourism sectors could boost waste management, transport and standalone hospitality units among others.
 
 While the government showered attention on MSME sector, which plays a crucial role in rendering Indian manufacturing globally competitive, the FM also relaxed benefits for the well-heeled startups announced in last year’s budget. 
 
 The Budget eased the condition that startups must have continuous holding of 51% voting rights to carry forward losses — it only requires founders to hold shares now. Also, the profit-linked deduction can be availed by startups across a seven-year window. Rehan Yar Khan, founder of early-stage venture fund, said, “It’s a generous move extending the window of tax deductible years as it’s only in later years that startups make profits. Thus now years 7, 6 and 5 can be considered for deduction versus 5, 4 and 3 earlier. When you read this together with lowering the tax rate for companies below Rs 50 crore turnover, it shows how committed the government is to the success of the startup ecosystem.”
 
 
 
 
 About 2.8L MSMEs that filed returns incurred effective corporate tax of over 30%.
 
 That compares to around 25% rate paid by cos with more than Rs 500cr each in profits.
 
 This, despite smaller enterprises driving the velocity of economic activity in the country.
 
