NAGPUR: Cheque clearances were affected largely as branches of nationalized banks remained closed or non-operational on Tuesday.

 The officers and staff went ahead with the one-day strike pressing for various demands, including compensation to employees for the extra work done during demonetisation, revision of wages and pensions among others.
 
 Nine bank unions under The   (UFBU) observed the strike. Maximum financial transactions in the country occur through cheques and Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS). The agitation had a major impact on this service.
 
 Most bankers admitted that the strike will not cause desired reforms overnight and it is only to draw government attention.
 
 Some banks replenished their ATMs on Monday assuming the rush of people when the bank doors are shut. “Many alternate delivery channels are available these days, including Internet and mobile banking. Only the people lacking digital literacy will experience major trouble,” said the manager of a   branch.
 
 “There was no need for a strike. Instead, the government should have been courteous enough to provide deserving remuneration to the employees,” he added.
 
 “Outsourcing of jobs is basically denial of employment to the aspiring youth. India is the second most populated country with a great degree of unemployment,” said Milind Wasnik of  . Over 100 customers in his branch will be hit by the strike, he said.
 
 “Bankers have worked hard tremendously without prior notice during demonetisation. Around 115 people have died, including bank officials, and we want the government to compensate all of them,” he added.
 
 Wednesday will be quite hectic for banks, said another source at Punjab National Bank. “Officials have sacrificed their one-day salary for the strike hoping some positive changes. Pensions of defence and railway employees is revised regularly, then why not bankers?” he said.
 
 He also put light on other agendas of the union and said, “The board of directors of banks should have at least one representative from a major union association.”
 
 Merger of banks was another aspect which worried the bankers.
 
 
