CHENNAI: The state government has launched an exclusive   for   for availing the regularisation scheme. Owners of such plots across the state should register on the portal www.tnlayoutreg.in before November 3.

 An official statement from the   ( ) member secretary’s office said the state government has launched a new scheme for regularizing unauthorized plots and layouts created before 20.10.2016 in Chennai and other parts of  . “A website, www.tnlayoutreg.in, has been launched to enable the people to submit applications through online. Applicants can create a separate user ID. and password, which can be used to track the stage of application in the future,” the statement said. The details of regularisation of unauthorised plots, sub-divisions and layouts are given in detail in the website, it added.
 
 The portal has separate entries for areas falling under the CMDA and rest of Tamil Nadu, which come under the purview of directorate of town and country planning (DTCP). Official sources with   said more than 12 lakh applications seeking regularisation of unapproved plots are expected before the deadline of November. “After applications are filed online, we would verify it with layout plan provided by local bodies. Following verification, respective planning authorities will approve the layouts and independent unapproved plots owners should approach the local bodies for getting their sites approved,” an official said. 
 
 Thereafter, regularisation fee and development charges must be paid to the local body, while scrutiny fee and open space reservation (OSR) charges must be remitted in favour of the planning authorities.
 
 As per the Tamil Nadu Regularisation and Unapproved Layout and Plot Rules, 2017 notified by the government on May 4, a regularisation fee of Rs 10 for every square feet should be paid in areas falling within city municipal corporation. The fee is Rs 6 and Rs 3 for areas falling under municipalitys and town panchayats, besides village panchayats.
 
