CHENNAI: The skies first beckoned him and now the seas seem to be calling out. Aviation enthusiast and advocate Arvind Sharma, who has a microlight pilot licence under his belt, is now all set to sail with members of the   (RMYC) as they make their maiden voyage from Chennai to Puducherry. 

 On  , a   of seven will embark on a journey that will test their skills as well as endurance.
 
 "I have been wanting to do this trip for a very long time," says Navaz Currimbhoy, treasurer, RMYC, who has already done two long-haul trips - from Galle, Sri Lanka, to Kochi; and Mumbai to Goa. "Those were on much bigger boats," says Currimbhoy, who has been sailing for the last 30 years.
 
 Two wind-powered boats, which can accommodate a maximum of eight people, will be used for the voyage. 
 
 "They are Seabirds - small but sturdy boats. But there are no cabins or even a toilet on board," says Currimbhoy. Other crew members who will be joining him on the trip include Arvind Sharma, Captain Omkar, Jehan Hoshi Driver, Sundaramurthy, Chidambaram, honorary secretary, RMYC, and Chinna Reddy, who is the coach of the club.
 
 While some of the crew are seasoned sailors, others like Sharma are new to the waters. "I sailed for the first time when I came to Chennai this February to renew my US visa," says Bangalore-based Sharma. Two hours on the water saw him hooked for life. 
 
 "I have been coming back to Chennai every week since then to learn sailing," says Sharma, who is in the city every Wednesday to Friday for learning the ropes.
 
 He also introduced his friend,  , 29, who works as an   traffic controller at Jakkur Airport, Bangalore, to the sport and the duo have completed   (YAI) level 1, 2 and 3 certification from the RMYC under coach Reddy.
 
 With requisite permissions secured, preparations for the trip, which is expected to last from April 10-15, are underway. After reaching Puducherry, the crew plans to break for a day, shop for provisions and do necessary repairs before embarking on the return journey. "The one-way journey will take 30-35 hours, depending on the wind," says Sharma. 
 
 "If you don't have wind, you could be in the same position for hours."
 
 It's a test of the crew's endurance too as they will be exposed to the sun, with no cabin to rest in. "We will be carrying plenty of fruits and water, as well as first aid kits," says Sharma. 
 
 The spectre of seasickness also looms large even for seasoned sailors. But the thrill of adventure is what fuels him. 
 
 "As someone who also flies, I feel sailing is like gliding on water," he says.
 
