CHENNAI: Addressing his first public meeting after taking charge as   deputy general secretary,   lashed out against rebel leader and former chief minister O   and said recommending Panneerselvam to former chief minister, the late J   was the ‘first mistake’ he made.

 Recalling how the rebel leader was introduced to Jayalalithaa for the first time, Dinakaran said that before the 2001 assembly polls, Jayalalithaa asked him to travel across the state and identify good administrators. Dinakaran recalled that when they had to select a district secretary in Theni, it was he would told the departed leader, to choose Panneerselvan. “She was going to announce Thanga Tamil Selvan (Andipatti MLA) as the district secretary. Since both of us were young, and Panneerselvam was slightly older than us, I recommended his name. That was the first mistake I made”, he said.
 
 He recalled that in September 2001, Jayalalithaa was looking for the right person to assume charge as chief minister, in her place, if the Supreme Court verdict went against her. Dinakaran claimed that Jayalalithaa told him that she had to choose between two ministers -- Panneerselvam, or the late C Durairaj. Dinakaran claimed that she told him that choosing “someone who is under your direct supervision, as CM, would be the best political decision.”
 
 He alleged that Panneerselvam who was “made chief minister thrice by Amma” is now hell bent on destroying the party. Earlier in the day, Dinakaran accused Panneerselvam of being a ‘B’ team of DMK and trying to destroy the party.
 
 Shenbagam, 51, an   member who was present at the meeting said she had been with the party for 20 years. “We miss our Amma. It is sad she is not with us anymore,” she said. Asked if she supports Dinakaran, she says she “does not know anything yet” about him. 
 
 Thangam, a 63-year-old party member says she has been with AIADMK for 30 years. “I have attended several meetings where Amma spoke. I will sing and dance at her meetings,” she said, with a smile. Asked whom she would vote for if there was an election, she first said “Deepa”, and then when she was told that Deepa had not joined AIADMK, the bemused lady quickly replied, “Whoever it is, I will vote only for the two leaves (AIADMK) symbol.”
 
 
