 At any level in  , Germany will always be the team to beat. The World champions are now officially the top-ranked team in the world – surpassing Brazil at the top of the ladder – and will naturally instil fear in the minds of their opponents at the   U-17 World Cup in India next month.
 
  Group opponents   know what they are up against in their opening match of the tournament on October 7 in Goa but head coach Breansse Camacho knows his team is more than capable of surprising the European giants.
  
  “Whenever you play Germany at any level of football, it’s a game with a lot riding on it. We have to be careful in our approach and prepare well. We know the importance of starting a campaign against a team of the quality of Germany. This can make a big impact as they are a strong team, but I think we have prepared well mentally and emotionally to handle this game,” Camacho told TOI in an exclusive interview.
  
  It will not be easy for Los Ticos. The Germans hardly leave anything to chance and then they will be up against the might of star German striker Jann-Fiete Arp, who was unstoppable during the qualification rounds, scoring two hat-tricks in the U-17 Euro Championship. Their other group opponents include Guinea and Asian heavyweights Iran.
  
  The most successful team in Central America, Costa Rica have been part of the U-17 World Cup on 10 occasions and put up an impressive showing at the last tournament in Chile. They defeated France on penalties to win a knockout game for the first time before bowing out to Belgium in the quarterfinals.
  
  “The last edition in Chile was very good. We had a brilliant tournament. Our objective this time is to try and improve on that performance. However, we do know that each tournament that we participate in is different and come with their own challenges. The aim will be to try and improve on what we did last time,” said Camacho.
  
  
  Camacho took the reins of his country’s side a year ago from Argentinean Marcelo Herrera, who he had assisted in Chile. The 46-year-old has held numerous roles as assistant and coach in various Costa Rican youth sides, notably heading to the Fifa U-20 World Cup 2007 in Canada as part of the coaching set-up.
  
  Since taking charge, he has shaped Costa Rica pretty well. They won all four games as hosts of the central American qualifying zone to reach the 2017 CONCACAF U-17 Championship on a hot streak. Once at Panama 2017, Costa Rica coasted through the initial group stage with another 100 percent record, defeating Cuba, Canada and Suriname to reach the classification round. Despite suffering a heavy 1-6 defeat at the hands of eventual champions Mexico, Costa Rica finished second courtesy of their slender 2-1 win over Panama and booked their tickets to India.
  
  “For us, whenever we enter a tournament, we do try and finish first. We have spoken about taking it one step at a time but our expectations are high and we want to go as far as possible,” said Camacho. 
  
  Camacho can be helped by forward Jose Rodolfo Alfaro, who made his senior team debut for Costa Rican club Deportiva Carmelita at the age of 16. If he fires, backed by the likes of Amferny Arias, Josue Abarca and Julian Cordero, Costa Rica might just fulfil their ambition of a best-ever finish in India.
