RANCHI: The district administration and traffic police find it   in the city. While only 2,335 auto rickshaws have the permit to ply in the city, over 10,000 autos ply daily without any questioning. 

 The district administration has been organizing various drives for over two years to keep a check on the auto rickshaws and trying to   to outskirts but, all in vain. 
 
 In December 2015, the   directed the district administration to remove all the auto rickshaws plying without permit from roads following which various drives were organized by the traffic department. 
 
 However, none of the drives proved to be successful in the last one year. 
 
 Apart from the autos plying without permit, the auto rickshaws are flouting other rules, the major one being overloading. As per the rules, the small autos can carry only three passengers in the back seat and one on the left side of driver while in minidor, four passengers can be seated in the back.
 
 However, in Ranchi, at least five passengers are cramped in the back seat of regular autos and six in minidors. Also, the auto drivers accommodate at least three passengers in the front seat, two on the left and one on right, leaving a constant fear of accident.
 
 "If we try to protest against overloading, the auto drivers ask us to step down," said Poonam Pathak, a working woman.
 
 This apart, demanding extra money from the passengers and behaving rudely when denied is also very common among the auto drivers. 
 
 Nikita Jha, a college student said, "The fair on the route I take is Rs 8 but once when I gave the change to an auto driver, he demanded Rs10. When I refused, he threw the money on my face and went off."
 
 Traffic SP   said, "We organize regular drives against autos without permit and fine a minimum of Rs 2,000 if the autos do not have permit and ply within the city limits. As far as misbehaviour is concerned, passengers should approach the nearest traffic cop or at least note down the auto number and complain at our office."
 
