NOIDA: Union minister for women and child development   on Tuesday directed the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) to investigate the death of seven-year-old  , a Class II student at   in Noida Extension, who died suddenly after allegedly getting injured during a karate session in school.

 The incident happened on January 31. Gaazhal was rushed to a private hospital by school authorities, where she succumbed to her injuries during treatment. The school management, however, denied the allegation of injury received during the karate session in school, and said it was because of her previous history of illness.
 
 Maneka’s direction came after Rajya Sabha MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar requested the minister for a proper and swift investigation into the allegedly unnatural death. Chandrasekhar wrote a letter to Maneka on February 17 and tagged her on Twitter. He said Gazhal’s death was owing to criminal negligence of the school authorities, adding that her parents were making their best efforts to ensure justice was done and the persons responsible were held accountable. The school had denied that the girl was injured during a karate session. 
 
 “Thank you, Sh @rajeev_mp ji for bringing this to my notice. I have directed @NCPCR_ to investigate. I will keep you posted,” Maneka Gandhi tweeted in response.
 
 Chandrasekhar, who considers issues related to safety of children as deeply important, said, “The incident has raised concerns regarding the physical safety of children in educational institutions, and the lack of proper child safety guidelines outlining the responsibility and accountabilities of schools in the country.”
 
 The parliamentarian also wrote a letter to Sujata Singh, SP (rural) of  , asking her to conduct the investigation swiftly and in a fair and impartial manner.
 
 Gaazhal’s father Lal Chand Yadav said he was not satisfied with the police probe. “We’ve provided all documents and evidence in the case. I also provided recording of a student/witness, saying Gazhal received injuries during a karate session. But all that the police say is they are investigating the matter. They have neither arrested nor detained the persons named in the FIR. I don’t know what kind of investigation they are doing,” Yadav said. He also pointed out a ‘discrepancy’ in the footage from CCTV cameras installed around the hospital premises. “One clip shows the car carrying Gazhal reaching the hospital at 1.24:40pm, while another clip shows she was rushed to the casualty ward at 1.22:40pm,” Yadav said. He added he was now hopeful justice would be delivered, after Maneka’s intervention.
 
 In response, a spokesperson for the private hospital said he was unaware of the discrepancy in different CCTV footages. “We’ve provided evidence to police for investigation,” he said.
 
 
