GURUGRAM: Three more traders have come forward with allegations of being duped by the Monga family, who had leased a flat in   in Sector 32 for 10 days, following similar allegations by three other traders and the landlord, about which TOI had reported on January 18. Like the earlier group of traders, these traders, too, had delivered household supplies to the family, who paid in cheques that bounced after they disappeared.

 Rajkumar Mangla of Lakshmi Traders said he was contacted by Geetanjali Monga on December 12, saying she had recently moved into the flat and needed supplies for a religious ceremony. “She told me she didn’t have cash and would pay by cheque. With the troubles due to demonetisation, we were getting a lot of such requests,” said Mangla, whose store is situated in Naya Bazar.
 
 Mangla sent the supplies and received a cheque for Rs 26,772 signed by a Ashish Monga. A few days later, he got another call from the same number, requesting more such supplies. This time, too, Mangla complied, and was given a cheque for Rs 23,260.
 
 When Mangla tried to deposit these in his bank, they bounced. He called up Geetanjali several times, who said she was out of town and would speak to him later. Mangla claimed during another telephonic conversation, he was threatened by Geetanjali’s “brother” Ashish, who said he would not pay up.
 
 Ashok Kumar of Tapodhani Modern Bazar had a similar story. He said a Mansi Monga had contacted him on phone, whose number she had found on Justdial website. He delivered goods worth Rs 21,000, including groceries. His delivery boy returned with a cheque, which bounced. He said cops were lackadaisical in response. He also found out Azad Yadav of MB Supermat, and other traders, were also duped. “I tried depositing the cheque twice. It bounced both times,” said Yadav, who had supplied goods worth Rs 17,756.
 
 Finally, the group of traders met the police commissioner on January 18, giving details of transactions, cheque numbers and copies of the Mongas’ IDs. 
 
 “I’ve not received any update from the cops yet,” said Mangla, who believes an organised nexus of such people is at work.
 
