MUMBAI: The   held on Wednesday that the condition mandating knowledge of   for autorickshaw drivers to get permits is “completely illegal”.

 A bench of Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Anuja Prabhudessai said the condition is not supported by the Motor Vehicles Act (MVA) and statutory rules, including Maharashtra’s.
 
 “No applicant shall be held disqualified on the ground that he does not comply with the clause (working knowledge of Marathi),” it added.
 
 The judges directed that the February 20, 2016 circular issued by the transport commissioner will be “inoperable to that extent”. The court ruled on a clutch of petitions by autorickshaw unions from Mumbai, Thane, Mira-Bhayander and Bhiwandi.
 
 The judges said the condition in the circular could not have been incorporated as the government had not exercised its rule-making power and made changes to the law. While the government contended that the condition was imposed for the benefit of the public who use autorickshaws, the judges questioned whether it could been done only on this ground alone.
 
 Referring to a Supreme Court judgment, they said that unless there is a special provision in the   that enables the state government to prescribe such a qualification for applicants, it could not impose such a condition. “Only by giving the excuse of public interest, the state government cannot circumvent the MVA.” 
 
 Nothing prevented the state government from exercising the rule-making power, the   bench said on Wednesday and added, “In the circumstances, the challenge by the petition will have to be upheld only on the ground that the state government has no power under the MV Act and Rules to impose the condition.”
 
 On Tuesday, the court had expressed concerns over harassment faced by passengers from unruly autorickshaw driver. The government’s advocate submitted figures of complaints on Wednesday.
 
 The bench said, “We find that except for recovery of fines, hardly any action is taken against drivers and permit holder.” The judges referred to another bench which in November 2015 took note of the number of complaints regarding uncivil conduct of taxi and rickshaw drivers who refuse passengers. They directed that the government set up a grievance redressal mechanism within two month by providing for a 24/7 call centre. The call centre receiving the complaints will be in a postion to inform local police who can immediately intervene and help the passengers. If a breach is noticed, the same may result in action against the permit-holder for cancellation of permit or identity badges.
 
