On screen, they look grand and opulent. But the sets of our TV shows, built away from the hustle-bustle of Mumbai in places like Naigaon, Vasai and Amgaon, pose a huge challenge to the actors. Commuting 70 km daily is no mean task, they tell you, adding that it has even resulted in health woes for many. Travel has become so cumbersome, many actors consider the location even before accepting plum offers. BT caught up with some telly stars, who unburdened their commuting woes to us. Read on...

 
 
 “I have let go off so many shows because of the long commute. However, my role in Waaris was so interesting that I could not resist. On a good day, it takes an hour to reach the sets in Vasai and if the traffic is bad, it takes two-and-a-half hours. I used to drive initially, but I started suffering from back problem. Now, I have a driver and am grateful that I have a good show, but sometimes, it does not make sense financially and logistically to travel so much. I have a one-year-old son and am out of the house from 
 
 
 
 
 “It takes me three hours everyday to reach the set, because of the ongoing Metro rail construction along the entire route. I hope that the authorities will find a solution to ease the traffic congestion.”
 
 
 
 
 “No set should be located farther than Mira Road; otherwise, we will spend our whole lives commuting. I take the local train from Mira Road to Vasai or Vasai to Andheri, which is much better than going by car. The bridge on the way to Vasai is another big problem. They have been repairing it for a year, and everyday, it takes at least 20-25 minutes to cross it. Sometimes, I have even walked to the railway station. It is inhuman to travel such long distances.”
 
 
 
 “It is a given in our industry that one has to travel far. But a bridge on the highway, which is under repair, is posing a huge problem. In a bid to control traffic, they open only one side to vehicles at a time, keeping the other side shut for 20 minutes. So, it takes me two-and-a-half hours to reach the location everyday. The worst part is, there is no alternate route either.”
 
 
 “I travel at least three hours one way. It is so tiring, I am planning to shift base to Amgaon and the producers have already made good arrangements. We work long hours and don’t have time for anything else. Attending promotional shoots and award functions becomes very difficult if they are scheduled for the same day as the shoot.” 
 
 
 The set of Abhimanyu Singh's latest show, Maharaja Ranjit Singh, is located in Amgaon, four hours away from Mumbai. He says, “It’s impossible to find vast open spaces in Mumbai. While shooting historical/mythological shows, green fields, rivers, waterfalls and trees are a must. For Bharat Ka Veer Putra – Maharana Pratap, we did try to shoot a portion at the Filmcity, but it did not work well. The Filmcity has no open space except the helipad, but even that is surrounded by buildings. I agree that it is inhuman to expect the actors to travel so much, but we have built our sets in such a way that they are comfortable enough for spending long hours. Also, the commute can be reduced much more, if the bridge that connects the   highway is repaired. It’s been underway for the past one year.” 
 
 Sunjoy Waddhwa says, “I don’t know what the fuss is all about. When technicians and lightmen can travel day and night to these far-off sets, why are actors finding it so difficult? It is the nature of the trade. Will these actors say ‘No’ if they were offered a film set in the mountains? Filmcity is mostly booked by movie crews and there’s little space left for TV shows. In any case, the commute from Andheri to Naigaon is better than Andheri to Powai, as there is huge congestion and traffic.”
 
  
  
 
 
