BENGALURU: A major racket involving removal of uteruses of nearly 2,200 women belonging to the   has come to light, with four hospitals involved continuing to function despite losing their licences.

 Women and activist groups are criticizing the government for not shutting down the hospitals. Though the racket was busted in August 2015 and the  's enquiry committee report in October 2015 cancelled the licences of four hospitals, they are functioning even today.
 
 On Monday, thousands of affected women and activists protested in front of the office of the Kalaburagi deputy commissioner, and raised their voice through NGOs like Alternate Law Forum, Vimochana and Swaraj Abhiyan in Bengaluru. Vinay Sreenivasa, advocate and member of ALF said, “The hospitals used these women to make a quick buck. It is gross violation of human rights and should be a noncognizable offence under the IPC, Karnataka Medical Council Act. The government must book doctors in the four hospitals, and the hospital managements under the IPC and close them permanently. It also calls for stricter regulation of the Karnataka Private Medical Establishments Act, 2007."
 
 The Women's Commission took up a suo motu case against the hospitals, and filed its report the same year.
 
 According to the report filed by the health department, a copy of which is with TOI, hysterectomies (surgery to remove the uterus) were unnecessarily done. Most of the women had approached the doctors complaining of minor ailments like stomach ache or pelvic pain or white discharge.
 
 “Most of the women had vague lower abdominal pain and low backache, for which they approached doctors in the hospitals. They were subjected to ultrasound examination and were given some medication for a short period. During subsequent visits, without subjecting the women to further evaluation, women who failed to get any relief were told that they would develop cancer of the uterus if they do not undergo a hysterectomy. This particular sequence of events was the same in most cases. These women were not given any other treatment options. For fear of developing cancer, these women underwent hysterectomy operations. 
 
 The team also came to know about agencies working for hospitals which would offer monetary incentives for frontline workers like ASHA Anganwadi workers to get patients to their hospitals for surgeries. However, they refused to give us a written statement to substantiate this...After the enquiry, the committee felt that many hysterectomies were done with no proper indications. The women who could have conservative management have been subjected to hysterectomies,“ the report reads.
 
 The report says the women who were targeted were not just poor but 40% 50% of them were below the age of 40 years. Basava Hospital, is registered in the name of a doctor who is a government servant, which is a violation of 'conduct rules', it reveals. 
 
 Vinay added, “One reason why the hospitals even function till today is because of the connivance of local health officials. And that Kalaburagi is far from sight for the government. If it was Bengaluru, they may have taken stern steps.“
 
 
 It is a sorry state of affairs that rapacious doctors have played havoc with women's health, spooking them into unnecessary surgeries to make some quick money. Even worse, the health department has cancelled the licences of the hospitals and washed its hands of the affair. Instead of this travesty, the government ought to have shut down the hospitals and brought the doctors to book. Since the report clearly indicts the medical professionals, the authorities must ensure that they are made to pay for their wrongdoings.
 
