MUMBAI: The   held five   on Thursday in a rare conviction of   in a  . The HC set aside their acquittal by a   and convicted them, along with two doctors, on charges of destroying evidence and attempting to shield the accused.

 The order came in the case of the gangrape of   and the murder of eight members of her family, including two children, amid communal violence in 2002 after ‘kar sevaks’ were killed in a fire on the Sabarmati express. 
 
 The high court also upheld the convictions and life sentences awarded to 11 others by the trial court for the gangrape of Bilkis and two other women and the murders.
 
 The maximum sentence the policemen attract for offences under section 201 and 218 of IPC is three years imprisonment. However, since they have already spent four and half years in custody before the trial, they will be allowed to go free. The court has also imposed a fine of Rs 20,000 on the seven cops, which has to be paid to Bilkis.
 
 The policemen and doctors had fudged medical examination records and post-mortem reports when a probe began into the incident. Their actions were “intended to screen offenders, hence their acquittal deserves to be set aside,’’ said the bench of Justices V K Tahilramai and Mridula Bhatkar.
 
 The bench said the cops and doctors acted in concert to falsify and destroy evidence to protect the 11 men who had raped and murdered members of Bilkis Bano’s family.
 
 The bench dismissed appeals filed by the 11 men who were first convicted by a special trial court in Mumbai in 2008. Upholding the life sentences given to them, HC said though it was a heinous crime, life sentence cannot be said to be inadequate. Taking the 15 years of custody into account, it dismissed a plea by the CBI to enhance the sentence to death for three of the convicts for raping Bilkis and murdering the others including an infant and a tot, whose bodies were not found. The CBI said 14 were murdered in all, but bodies of only seven were found, including two boys and a girl.
 
 The HC held they were “not hard core criminals.’’ But, “From the clinching evidence placed before us, we are convinced that all these accused were moving in search of Muslims in a mob due to Godhra incident…as soon as they saw them, they pounced on them, assaulted them and raped the women.’’
 
 During the hearings, defence counsel Harshad Ponda had countered the CBI’s arguments saying Bilkis was never raped. She had “put out a false story’’ he said. He consistently questioned her credibility, her testimony, even the reliability of a star eye-witness, her 12 year old nephew, whose deposition, he said, was “replete with contradictions.’’
 
 Ponda stressed that the victims’ photographs at the site were never taken by the police, but the CBI had relied on them to establish the crime.
 
 CBI counsel H S Venegaonkar presented various articles during the hearings to piece together an account of the gory crime. These included a child’s frock, broken bangles, foot imprints at the site, and exhibits such as reports on the bodies exhumed from a forest. “On looking at the photographs, one can easily make out that females were sexually abused when they were put to death…four bodies of dead women, were found. Doctors visited the spot two days later,’’ the HC observed. “The pista-coloured frock, despite absence of a child’s body along with Bilkis’ testimony, makes it evident that her daughter was killed on March 3, 2002,’’ said the HC.
 
 The HC said the central issue was whether Bilkis could be believed, observing that the defence had sought to undermine her credibility in “every possible way.’’ The HC said the “big flaw’’ in the Limkheda police investigation was that it failed to send Bilkis for a medical examination when she filed a complaint on March 4, the very next day. Police records corroborate Bilkis’ case that she was raped but not medically examined till a day after in order to suppress the crime.
 
 One of the ‘biggest manipulations’’ by the cops, the HC found, was also their failure to take Bilkis to the crime scene the same day, held the court.
 
 Reacting to the judgment, Bilkis’s lawyer Vijay Hiremath said, “The conviction of cops is the first in a Gujarat case of gangrape and murder emerging from riots. It vindicates our stand that authorities were protecting the perpetrators and supporting such violence.’’
 
 
