KRISHNAGAR: A 14-year-old old boy was allegedly murdered by two friends, both minors, in Krishnanagar and buried in a pit. The boy,   who was a student of Class-IX of a  , was killed because he wanted Rs 150 that he had earlier lent the duo. Police, however, are not ruling out other motives. The accused, students of a convent school in Krishnagar, are in police custody now.

 The accused told police that they consumed alcohol with Bhowmik on the night of February 8 before murdering him. They reportedly first smashed Debasish's head with the liquor bottle and then strangled him to death.The two boys then buried the body in a pit that had already been dug.The two then went back home.
 
 Bhowmik, who lived in Peonpara, left home around 4.15pm on his cycle that day to play with his friends in a nearby ground. When he did not return till late at night, the family pressed panic button. They kept checking with his friends and kin the whole night. His mother Jhimli lodged a missing diary with   the next morning.
 
 On Saturday morning, police found Bhowmik's cycle near a bush in a abandoned helipad that's about two kilometres from his home. On being informed by locals that Bhowmik was spotted with two friends on February 8 near the helipad, police picked up the duo from their homes on Saturday afternoon. “They were tough nuts to crack. After almost five hours, they broke down and admitted that they had killed Bhowmik,“ said police.
 
 The police were shocked to find that it was clod-blooded murder that the teens had planned well in advance. They told police that they had dug the pit a few days before the crime was committed. “We took the boys to the murder site around 3am on Sunday and recovered the body,“ said an officer. Police also recovered broken liquor bottles with which the two had attacked the victim. Police suspect the trio had been consuming alcohol together on a regular basis. Though the duo told police that they killed Bhowmik for a petty Rs 150 that they had borrowed from him a week before the murder, police are not completely buying this theory.
 
 “When teens drink they do that recklessly with the intent to get a high unlike most adults who drink more responsibly. But, if the murder was pre-planned then the two boys must be having criminal bent of mind. In such cases, parents can look out for signals in their kids, like streaks of cruelty with no signs of remorse for their acts,“ said J R Ram, consultant psychiatrist with Apollo Gleneagles Hospital, Kolkata. Police have sent the two minors to a state-run home.Bhowmik's body has been sent for post mortem.
 
