KANPUR: A team of   (NIA) has reached the house of   alias Hamza, a  , in   on Monday to probe  . 

 Syed Meer Husain is a cousin of Atif, another suspect. His father Syed Ahmed Hasan runs a public school in Indira Nagar area of Gursahaiganj in Kannauj. The trio had reportedly planted a timer bomb bag in the train on March 7. Nine people were injured when an explosion took place in Bhopal-Ujjain passenger train near Jabdi station of MP's Shajapur.
 
 The Madhya Pradesh police had arrested Syed Meer Husain along with Atif Muzaffar and Mohammad Danish, both residents of Kanpur, from Pipariya in Hoshangabad district in Madhya Pradesh in connection with the blast. Sources said the team comprising four NIA officials reached Hamza's house in Indira Nagar area. They also visited the school located in the same area. 
 
 The team interrogated the family members, including parents of Syed Meer Husain and collected evidences from their house in Indira Nagar and the school. The NIA officials also took copies of documents related to Hamza from his house. The team also inquired his neighbours.
 
 Earlier on March 28, the sleuths of NIA had reached Jajmau locality and Chakeri police station in the Kanpur along with terror accused Atif and a former Air Force personnel Ghaus Mohammed Khan, to collect evidences about their involvement in terror activities. 
 
 The same day, the NIA team took terror suspect Faisal to Jajmau Peondi near Tiwaripur village in Chakeri to reconstruct the sequence of events that led to the murder of retired principal Ramesh Chandra Shukla in Chakeri on October 24. The investigating agencies including Anti-Terror Squad (ATS) had so far arrested seven people, including former Air Force personnel Ghaus Mohammed Khan, Azhar, Danish, his brother Faisal, besides Atif, his cousin Syed Meer Husain alias Hamza and Fakhre Alam in connection with Bhopal-Ujjain passenger train explosion and Lucknow terror operation. Saifullah, one of their alleged accomplice was killed in an encounter with the ATS in Lucknow on March 7.
 
 
