PATNA: With less than 48 hours left for the   ( ) elections,   was at its peak on the   on Monday. Teams of contesting teachers were seen moving from one college to the other and in different departments to garner support and votes. Phone calls and messages were also doing the rounds.

 Polling for the PUTA general secretary and two vice-presidents will take place at the Wheeler Senate House on Wednesday. About 275 teachers are likely to exercise their franchise. The polling will start at 10am and conclude at 3.30pm. Counting of votes will be taken up just after the polling is over.
 
 PUTA’s sitting treasurer and psychology teacher of Patna College, Sheo Sagar Prasad, is in direct contest against Patna Science College chemistry teacher Abhay Kumar for the post of general secretary. 
 
 As many as four teachers are contesting for the two vice-president posts. They are Patna Women’s College political science teacher Shefali Roy, Patna Science College botany teacher M P Trivedi, PU Hindi department teacher Dilip Ram and PU political science department teacher Binay Soren.
 
 There would be no polling for the post of president, treasurer and two joint secretaries as the candidates who filed their nomination papers for these posts were elected unopposed. While Patna College sociology department head Randhir Kumar Singh was elected president, B N College chemistry teacher Irshad Ali and Patna Women’s College philosophy teacher Ameeta Jayaswal were elected joint secretaries of the association. Dinesh Prasad Kamal of Ancient Indian History and Archaeology department was elected treasurer. 
 
 There is virtually no contest for PUTA executive committee membership. As many as 11 candidates have already been declared elected unopposed while 12 seats remained vacant as no nomination paper was filed against these seats. There would be no representative from B N College, Patna Women’s College, Patna Law College, College of Arts and Crafts, Vanijya Mahavidyalaya and departments of applied economics and commerce and education in the PUTA executive committee this time.
 
