AURANGABAD: The   ( ) has pressed a total of 4,000 of its people representatives to reach out to the farmers and people in rural areas. The saffron party has also put scores of its workers to approach the voters at the booth level. 

 The move comes amid growing bitterness among the ruling alliance and speculations on possibility of mid-term poll in the state.
 
 The state accounts for about 90,000 booths and the BJP expects its workers to complete their job within a fortnight. As part of the BJP's preparation for any poll like eventuality, chief minister   has already kick-started the party's   (interaction with framers) on Thursday at Nilanga where he and five others had a narrow escape when their helicopter crash-landed. 
 
 With speculations making rounds that   is joining hands with   and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) against the Fadnavis government, the BJP recently carried out a survey and received a positive feedback from the people on government's functioning. This was claimed by BJP state spokesperson   on Friday while asserting that the party was prepared to face any eventuality even if the state goes for mid-term poll. He, however, quickly added that mid-term is a remote possibility.
 
 In order to reach out to the people, as many as 4,000 elected BJP representatives in local self-governments and other bodies ranging from gram panchayat to zilla parishad members, municipal councilors, MLAs and MPs, have already hit the road as a part of the partys Shetkari Sanwad Yatra.
 
 These representatives are expected to cover entire state, highlighting what the BJP government has done for them and how the opposition Congress-NCP as well as Shiv Sena were spreading fake news about the governments performance.
 
 Boralkar also claimed that the tur dal issue that is being highlighted currently by the opposition has lost its sheen.
 
 "This is meant to highlight what the BJP is doing and to expose the opposition including the Shiv Sena that has launched a tirade against the government," said another BJP leader. 
 
