Ed 343 Srimathi 

 Coimbatore: As part of the   (SDR) project, Coimbatore Corporation will implement solid waste management schemes on the 2.5-km road stretch from Sarvanampatti junction to Athipalayam junction.
 
 The corporation and city-based NGOs have taken it up as a five-year project to make this road a swachh dream road. The main focus will be on to improve the area’s green cover and enhance solid waste management. Several corporate houses have shown interest in funding the project after the civic body conducted meetings with them. 
 
 Source segregation of waste will be implemented along the road. The residents, shop owners, industries, colleges and IT companies will be asked to dump waste only at a designated site. Further, a series of awareness programmes will be held to make sure people practice this regularly and effectively.
 
 Swachh Bharat ambassadors, Women Wonders — a group of homemakers working for Swachh Bharat Mission, and other city-based NGOs will guide the people in the area. “A minimum estimate of Rs 25 lakhs has been made, with which a shed will be set up for secondary waste segregation.”
 
 As part of a survey, students of Kumaraguru College of Technology visited 201 shops on the road and gathered vital details like the amount of waste collected, disposed and the ways in which they are sorted out. “Several IT companies, commercial establishments, residential complexes and industrial units are located along the road stretch. Different types of waste segregation will be briefed to people. After the waste is segregated, it will be taken to the shed for secondary segregation. Efforts will be made to ensure that the waste is recycled and does not end up in land fill,” said Raveendran of Residential Aareness Association of Coimbatore. He added that corporation sanitary workers, college students, homemakers and volunteers from NGO will be a part of the project “We will conduct workshops and meetings regularly. Several corporate have shown interest in the project. Everything will be finalised before February,” said Suresh Bhandari of Clean Cities Foundation. 
 
 Environmental NGOs will also be involved for planting trees on the road.
 
 
