ZIRAKPUR/BALTANA: Roads in the furniture   as well as in the residential area of   were found water logged on Wednesday. Residents complain that they have grown habitual to the poor work performance of the local municipal council officials, who are not developing infrastructure in the town.

 Local residents said the water drainage system of Baltana becomes non-functional during monsoon and it also affects the Shimla-Zirakpur expressway, from where a large number of commuters pass throughout the day. 
 
 Sushil Nanda (38), a resident of Sector 20, Panchkula, who commutes via the highway often, said, “When it rains, water on the highway near Baltana Light Point rises upto three feet and it becomes impossible to cross the road.” However, in the inner markets of Baltana, towards residential area of the town, some commuters have faced the worst conditions owing to invisible potholes during monsoon. “I was going towards the market to purchase some goods for house, but my car got struck in one of the invisible potholes near furniture market and it damaged the bumper of my car,” said, Arjun Mahey (48), a resident of Baltana.
 
 “If officials cannot repair the road, they must install warning signboards near potholes and near open sewage,” said a student, Sudhanshu Gulati (21), a resident of Baltana. The residents alleged that not even a single official has ever visited to discuss the problem of the residents. 
 
 Samriti Rani (43), who takes a bus from Baltana Light Point to Pinjore, said, “Situation becomes worse when it rains and it becomes impossible to cross the road for a pedestrian. Administration is not prepared to tackle water logging issue. There is a need to clean the sewage pipes on a regular basis.”
 
 Durin showers in June, water blocked the sewage lying along national highway and the local residents and   cops had to call a JCB machine along with two persons to clean the garbage stuck in the sewage pipeline and only then was the road opened for commuters.
 
 When contacted the local municipal council officials, they said the issue was raised before the House several times and works for installation of high water drainage system is under progress.
 
 Traffic cops of Baltana and   were found attending to their duties, despite the rain, to clear the water logged roads.
 
