PATNA: St Michael’s High School (SMHS) Team A defeated Delhi Public School-Patna by 2-1 goals to win the ninth St Ignatius Loyola Inter-school Football Tournament on Saturday. Eight city schools participated in the tournament. The best goalkeeper, scorer, player and defender trophies were bagged by Navneet Raj, Shubham Raj, Ishan Vats and Xavier Lakra (SMHS), respectively. DAV BSEB got the fair play team award while best emerging player award went to Aashish Roshan.

 The awards and certificates were distributed by director, postal department (Patna), Parimal Sinha. School choir presented a song. Rector Fr. Seraphim S J, school principal Fr Armstrong Edison S J, headmistress Vishakha Sinha and vice-principal Fr Prakash Anthony S J were present. The tournament was coordinated by school sports teachers Amrish Kumar Jha, Saurabh Deep, Niraj Kumar and Prateeksha Diwedi.
 
 Van Mahotsava: Environment and forest department principal secretary Vivek Kumar Singh inaugurated green germination room at Tarumitra on Saturday. Students of more than 16 city schools attended the programme.
 
 The programme was organised to celebrate Raksha Bandhan and Van Mahotsava. Students planted saplings and tied handmade rakhis to the ‘Fairy tree’ (Ficus Retusa). Kids also tied rakhi to Vivek Singh. As a gift, he promised to provide earthmovers to Tarumitra to safely relocate plants without damaging them. The students sang earth songs and danced in the rain. Two students from   (US) – Angie Rizzo and Robert Smith – also participated in the event.
 
 Fresher’s Day: Patna Women’s College organised a Fresher’s Day function on Saturday to welcome the new students. Students of chemistry department presented a welcome song followed by group dance by department of zoology. A melodious ‘qawwali’ was performed by sociology students. The students of mathematics, statistics and physics departments presented a group song. A play on ‘Macbeth’ was presented by the students of English department. Another skit on ‘GST’ was performed by economics department. College principal Sr Marie Jessie A.C. also spoke on the occasion. The programme was coordinated by Dr Shefali Roy. 
 
 Quiz contest: NIT Rourkela’s Nishant Nihar and Abhishek Patra won the first prize in ‘NTPC Electron Quiz 2017’ held at Chandragupta Institute of Management-Patna on Saturday. Five other qualified teams were IIM-Ranchi, IIT-Patna and three teams of CIMP. The motto of the quiz contest is to inculcate a culture of learning among the young minds. The top three teams will take part in the national finals to be held at NTPC  , Noida on August 19. NTPC regional executive director (East-1) KS Garbyal presented awards to the top three teams. 
 
