GHAZIABAD: The   has hiked the circle rates for residential and commercial plots in all sectors of Vasundhara. The revised circle rates, which came into effect from April 1, 2017, have been hiked by approximately 16%. The stakeholders, whom are builders in this case, criticised the hike.

 According to the Uttar Pradesh housing board’s superintendent engineer, K S Singhal, under the residential category circle rates have been hiked from Rs 42,000 per square metre to Rs 48,800 per sq m in even-numbered sectors, a rise of 16%.
 
 Similarly, in odd-numbered sectors, the rate for residential plots has been hiked from Rs 38,000 per sq m to Rs 44,100 per sq m (16%).
 
 “In the commercial plot category, the new circle rate in even-numbered sectors is up to Rs 97,600 per sq m from Rs. 84,000 per sq mm (16.1%),” Singhal said. “Again in odd-numbered sectors, the new circle rate is Rs 88,2000 per sq m as against the previous rate of Rs 76,000 per sq m (16%) under the commercial plot category,” Singhal said.
 
 The housing board’s move to increase circle rates has drawn sharp criticism from stakeholders. Terming the hike ‘illogical’, they said it would affect the real estate market in the area which is already in a slump now.
 
 Manoj Gaur, vice-president, Credai (National) and MD of Gaurson,s says “this is completely ill -advised move which will have adverse bearing on real estate market which is still trying to recover from the slump.” “At a time when there is no buyers in the market the circle rates should be left untouched if not lowered which could have enabled more buyers to buy property but with the hike in circle rates this will further discourage buyers” Gaur said.
 
 Satnam Singh, managing director of  , too has criticised the housing board’s move circle rate hike in Vasundhara. “I have a couple of projects in Vasundhara and it is surprising that when Gurgaon and Delhi are slashing circle rates in view of the sluggish real estate market, the UP housing board is increasing them.”
 
 When asked if it would affect small-time buyers,   said, “It will have a minimal affect on small-time buyers as the district magistrate’s circle rate is applicable to the buyers of flats, which is already high. At present it is Rs 52,000 per sq m.” Singh said, “The extra burden of the housing board’s hiked circle rates will be borne by the builder alone who will be shelling out more to the board while buying plots.”
 
 
