KOLKATA: The questioning of   who had threatened a   based   to pay Rs 2 lakh has revealed that he was merely a pawn in the hands of bigger players, some of whom have political connections. The extortionist, claimed sources, was protected by a former MP from Bihar. It was this man who had asked Singh to collect a few crores in the past week so that he can “invest” the same in the upcoming  . “Singh was asked to stay in the rural belt around Ranchi but make all his   calls from Jogbani in the Indo-UP border,” said a senior investigating officer. Interestingly, Binod’s rise in the extortion ring began as early as 2005 when the Jharkhand police arrested him from Kolkata with help from the ARS of detective department.

 The arrest though has failed to throw light on another extortion that has taken place in Alipore. A top businessman at Alipore Park Place has complained of receiving an extortion call worth Rs 15 crore. The caller’s threat too was an absurd one – he claimed that the victim must pay up or face murder charges in Jammu and Kashmir. “We had hoped that there might have been some common link between the two threat calls. But it now appears that two different gangs are involved,” claimed a detective department officer.
 
 While Binod Singh was wanted in several cases in West Bengal and Jharkhand – a source put it at 27, he was put on radar again after he made extortion calls to one Hunger Ford Street resident and a railway contractor. Cops later found two small notebooks containing around 1000 names of railway contractors based in Kharagpur, Dhanbad, Asansol and Adra. According to police, through a network in the railways, Binod gathered information regarding those who took part in the tendering processes. Sometimes, he directly participated in them to ascertain who won the bid to fix his targets. He focused mainly on the tenders for the three states-Bengal, Bihar and Jharkhand. His gang members would call them up and ask for money.
 
 Cops say that since February last year, the city has witnessed a spurt of extortions. While there has been a couple of cases where old hands were at work, worryingly, it is the first timers who are getting involved. In most cases, cops have been successful in nabbing the accused but there is a fear that the real gangsters are using the accused as the middlemen to avoid being arrested.
 
 In all, cops have registered around a dozen extortion cases this year. Comparative figures, claim detective department sources, show there were around five such cases in the first six months last year. Police say the victims are always established businessmen residing in south and southeast Kolkata and Salt Lake with business establishments in Central Kolkata like Posta and Burrabazar. 
 
