AHMEDABAD: The  ,  , is apparently delighted over the social media posts of   of 29th Battalion who has alleged that essentials meant for them were being sold by their higher-ups and their officers “illegally” in the market.

  “At sectors where Indian and Pakistani border posts are located opposite each other on either side of the border — such as some places in Barmer sector of Gujarat Frontier — the   taunt our men with jibes like, ‘If you are hungry, please come over. We have food here,’” a top BSF official of Gujarat Fontier said. 
 
 The BSF (Gujarat frontier) has already ordered an inquiry into the social media posts of another BSF jawan,  , who has also alleged corruption. Choudhari is currently posted as head constable (ministerial) at Gandhidham in Kutch.
 
 A top BSF official claimed that the Pakistani spy agency, ISI, is delighted over the social media posts of jawan Tej Bahadur of 29th Battalion. This was followed by Choudhari’s posts on social media alleging rampant corruption in the force.
 
 The BSF official further said that while they are already conducting an impartial inquiry into the allegations of the BSF jawan Choudhari, such posts on social media are damaging for the force which is considered the first line of defense.
 
 “The ISI of Pakistan and terror outfits operating from across the border are taking advantage of the social media posts of the Indian jawans which demoralizes the BSF. Even when we are probing the allegations to bring out the truth, our jawans should refrain from making such allegations publicly on social media platforms,” said the BSF official.
 
 It is noteworthy that Jawan Tej Bahadur had alleged on social media on January 8 that troops are served bad quality food and that the essentials purchased by the government for them are sold in the market by their higher-ups and officers.
 
 Tej Bahadur’s posts were followed by three posts of Choudhari who alleged that liquor purchased from jawans’ money is being sold to outsiders. He had also raised questions on the grievance redressal system of the force and the monthly “Sainik Sammelans”, which are organized to address the problems of jawans.
 
