Chandigarh: At a time when the Indian cities are on a mission to become ‘smart’, the   of these big Indian cities and their future was discussed at   on Monday. The   (IIPA), Punjab and Chandigarh regional branch, the department of public administration, Panjab University (PU), and   (ABS), Chandigarh Chapter, jointly organized a Special Lecture on ‘Future of Cities’. The lecture was delivered by Dr Suzanne Speak, senior lecturer of architecture, planning and landscape at Newcastle University, UK, on Monday at PU’s public administration department.

 Professor B S Ghuman, dean of faculty of arts, PU, Chandigarh, and president of ABS, Chandigarh Chapter, while introducing the theme opined that present cities have glaring income inequalities and uneven access to basic amenities. The benefits of   have not percolated down to urban population working in the informal sector and residing in slums. Need of the hour is to make cities all inclusive.
 
 In her address, Dr Suzanne started with the historical evolution of cities giving reference to Indus civilization, cities in Egypt and the UK – all 5,000 years old. She said our imagination of cities has been influenced by art, films and literature in which cities are portrayed as clean habitations, expensive ones and accommodating elites. The present day cities, including smart cities, are also based on the traditional approach of planning, administering and managing where big cities enjoy access to all basic amenities like energy, water, health, security, recreation activities and public spaces, but alongside, small cities do not enjoy most of those facilities, she said. Dr Suzanne said future cities should be based on the principles of egalitarianism and enjoy sufficient access to all the basic amenities.
 
 B S Ojha, IAS (retired), former chief secretary, Haryana, and chairman of the IIPA regional branch in his presidential remarks opined that the people’s perspective while envisioning the future cities needs to be given space.
 
 
