NEW DELHI: The faultline runs deep and the best prize has been won. Olympic silver medalist   dazzled on court with her sureness of touch, strength of conviction and gazel-like movements against senior pro   to solemnize her coronation.

 As she breezed into the semifinals of the Yonex-Sunrise Super Series India Open 2017, seeing off Saina in straight sets (21-16, 22-20) on Friday evening, the packed crowd at the   cheered the new 'powerhouse' of Indian badminton.
 
 Even though public memory is short, one cannot but spare a thought for Saina, who just a couple of years ago (2015) earned similar cheers for winning the same title and claiming the world No. 1 ranking.
 
 As times have changed, Saina's stock has slided while Sindhu's stars have soared.
 
 Billed as the match of the championship, the tie had fans squeezed in every possible corner of the arena and they never shied from expressing their loyalties. Of course, it was divided down the middle.
 
 Even though Saina attacked her younger opponent with the harshest of smashes, Sindhu opened up a sixpoint lead at 18-12 in the first game and it was easy from thereon.
 
 Saina attempted a strong fightback in the second and enjoyed the lead till 20-19 as a clutch of body smashes left Sindhu stranded.
 
 Just when it seemed that the match would go into the third game, Saina made the cardinal error of a service fault -she hit the shuttle into the net.
 
 Nerves, like nemesis, played its part and Saina's rearguard action grounded to a halt. Sindhu, just 21 and in far better shape and form, clipped off two points in quick succession. It was all over in 47 minutes.
 
 "It's a very good win for me.Saina is not someone special that I have to win against her. Against each player, I will give 100 per cent," the winner in yellow was surprisingly terse after the match. Sindhu, who made her maiden India Open semifinals, addressed Saina in third person singular (she) throughout her 10-minute media interaction.
 
 Saina quickly rushed back to the changing room as Sindhu faced the waiting bunch of kids, screaming her name, with a 100watt smile. Thoughs on the semifinal clash with  , slated next, could wait for a while.
 
 South Korean Sung made a confident entry into the semifinals, showing the exit door to defending champion, Thailand's   21-16, 22-20. Top seed   was made to sweat for 57 minutes before getting the better of twinkle-toed Minatsu Mitani 21-10, 20-22, 21-14. She will meet another Japanese, Akane Yamaguchi in the semis.
 
 Sameer Verma, the lone Indian survivor in the men's category, lost his way against against Denmark's   24-22, 21-19 in the quarterfinal clash. 
 
