JAIPUR: On an average, India has only two buses for every 1,000 people. This is the ground reality despite the growing emphasis on public transport and as cities across the country face severe air pollution.

 Many waterbodies in India are now severely polluted, and three of Rajasthan’s most well-known lakes – the Jal Mahal, Jaisamand and   – are in the list of most severely-polluted waterbodies in the country.
 
 And the state along with Uttar Pradesh account for 76% of environmental crimes in the country.
 
 These and other facts were revealed by the State of India’s Environment 2017 report released at the   by  , the director general of   (CSE), on Thursday.
 
 Addressing the session on ‘De-globalisation in the age of climate change: New pathways for sustainable development’, Narain said, “In 2016, we had Brexit, the victory of Trump in the US, more erratic weather and unseasonal rains and resultant havoc. 2016 has told us that something must change drastically so that our tomorrow is different, better and more secure. It has told us that there is something fundamentally wrong in the way we are managing our economies and our societies, because of which there is so much dissent.”
 
 She went on to connect this state of affairs with the numerous environment-development quandaries faced by the nation. “The lessons of the past two years are that environmental issues cannot be ignored if we want to secure life and health,” she said.
 
 The State of India’s Environment 2017 – or SOE in short – contains a number of disturbing data from India which gives credence to her argument.
 
 Other than the earlier mentioned factoids, the report says that there has been an overall decline in environmental crimes reported in the country.
 
 Meanwhile, 26 of the country’s 29 states have reported a rise in area undergoing desertification over the past 10 years. Almost 30% of the country’s area is degraded. And to top it all, India ranks among the lowest in the list of countries on the Sustainable Development Index (SDI). Disturbing data for troubled times.
 
