The CBI arrested on Tuesday former   joint director J P Singh and three others on charges of bribery to dilute the probe into the IPL spot-fixing scandal.

 Singh, a 2000-batch IRS officer of Customs and Excise cadre, was suspended from the ED and repatriated to his cadre after the CBI registered a case against him in September 2015. Singh was arrested along with his then deputy Sanjay Kumar, Mumbai-based middleman Bimal Agrawal and Gujarat-based bookie  .
 
 An internal probe ordered by current ED chief Karnal Singh revealed that Singh and Kumar were indulging in massive corrupt practices.The duo allegedly asked several bookies and hawala dealers to pay them in crores if they didn't want to be arrested, sources said.
 
 After its probe, the ED approached the CBI to investigate the charges against Singh and the others.
 
 According to sources, J P Singh, through his conduits, “extorted“ bribe money in crores of rupees from several bookies who were being probed by the ED under the Prevention of   Act (PMLA). Former Enforcement Di rectorate Joint Director J P Singh, who was arrested on Tuesday , is suspected have taken anywhere between Rs 7 crore and Rs 10 crore in bribe from bookies and hawala dealers when a team led by him in the ED's Ahmedabad unit was probing the Rs 2,000 crore IPL betting scandal and the Rs 5,000 crore money laundering case against alleged hawala operator Afroz Fatta.
 
 An   assessment revealed in 2015 that they didn't receive the bribe money directly , but through their “conduits“ like Bimal Agarwal and Patel who fixed meetings with suspects to collect the cash on their behalf. On behalf of Singh, Agrawal visited Delhi several times in 2015 and contacted several bookies who were under the ED scanner. He, along with the others, even booked a room in Le Meridian in Delhi between May 25 and May 28, 2015, where they collected the money for Singh, sources said. Bookies who accepted Singh's conditions were given immunity from ED raids and were never called to its office for questioning, CBI sources said.
 
 Bimal Agarwal, has at least five criminal cases registered against him and is known to be very close to so me senior police officers and bureaucrats. The Economic Offences Wing of the Mumbai police had arrested him in 2012 for supplying low-quality bomb disposal suits. After the 2611 terror attack, the police department had given a contract to Agrawal for supply of 83 bomb disposal suits and paid him Rs 6.25 crore in advance in 2009. Agrawal allegedly supplied poor quality suits. He also dabbled in re-development projects and faces criminal charges for cheating and forgery. Since he was known to most bookies in Mumbai, he began playing the role of mediator in settling disputes. He also acted as a mediator between bookies and Singh. Agrawal came in touch with Singh during his posting in Mumbai.
 
 After registering a case against Singh in 2015, the CBI had conducted raids in Mumbai, Delhi and other places. His father-in-law, S K S Somvanshi, a retired IRS officer of 1978 batch, was also raided by the agency at that time as it was suspected that Singh's conduits used to hand over the bribe money to him.
 
