MUMBAI: Despite a long history of military rivalry and strained ties, India and China joined hands in the   to rescue a merchant vessel from pirates on Sunday.

 The Tuvalu-flagged container ship had 19 Filipino crew, all of whom are now safe.
 
 The attack on MV OS 35 came just over a week after an Indian dhow sailing from Dubai to Yemen was hijacked by Somali pirates.
 
 A Navy official said that INS Mumbai, a guided missile destroyer built at  , and INS Tarkash, a Russian-made guided missile frigate, were the first to respond to the alert sounded by the UK Maritime Trade Operations, which was monitoring the movement of the 21,000-ton vessel, MV OS 35. “Assistance operation was carried out jointly by four   ships and the Chinese military ship Yulin. 
 
 We provided air cover while the   (People’s Liberation Army; the combined name for China’s military) sent a team of 18 personnel to sanitise the merchant vessel. It has been rendered safe. 
 
 The operation lasted about five hours,” Indian Navy spokesperson Captain DK Sharma told TOI.
 
 Four naval warships, INS Mumbai, Tarkash, Trishul and Aditya, were passing through the Gulf of Aden for a mission in the   when the alert was sounded late night on Saturday.
 
 INS Mumbai and Tarkash were diverted and by the early hours of Sunday closed in on the distressed vessel.
 
 “The Indian warships established contact with its captain, who, along with the crew, had locked himself in the cargo ship’s strong room as per the standard operating procedure for a pirate attack,” said the Navy official.
 
 A Navy chopper undertook aerial reconnaissance of the vessel to sanitize its upper deck and ascertain the location of the pirates. 
 
 Neither pirates nor any skiff were detected, indicating that the attackers had fled in all likelihood on sighting military ships. 
 
 “Emboldened by the Indian Navy’s helicopter cover, and on receiving an all-clear signal that no pirates were visible on the upper decks, some crew members gradually emerged from the strong room in the morning and carried out a search of the vessel. They ascertained that the pirates had fled,” said the Navy official. 
 
 “Subsequently, in a show of international maritime cooperation against piracy, a boarding party from a nearby Chinese military ship went on board the merchant ship, while the Indian helicopter provided air cover. It has been established that all 19 Filipino crew of the vessel are safe.”
 
