NEW DELHI: To avoid a repeat of last year's unpleasantness that saw   ( ) member   and former team director   having a war of words after the latter's exit from the senior team, the Indian cricket board ( ) is contemplating doing away with the interview process as it looks to appoint the head coach of the national team.

 Sources suggested to TOI that it's being left to the CAC members -Sachin Tendulkar,   and Ganguly -to take a final call on how to appoint the new coach, a position which fell vacant after incumbent coach Anil Kumble decided to withdraw from the race following reports of a falling out with captain Virat Kohli and some other seniors in the team. Sources added that the move to scrap the interview process was being discussed within the board.
 
 Those who have applied for the job have been ready with their presentations and are waiting to hear from BCCI. “No one has told those applicants on how to go about with this,” the source said while asserting that none of the applicants had heard from the BCCI till Saturday evening.
 
 
 
 
 The last date to apply for the high-profile job is July 9 (till midnight) while Ganguly was reported as saying that the selection process would be conducted on July 10 in Mumbai. How the BCCI is going to conduct the process in such a short time is anyone's guess.
 
 Explained the logic behind the move of doing away with interviews, sources said that CAC members already knew about the credentials of all the applicants including leading contenders like Tom Moody, Virender Sehwag and Shastri and, therefore, calling them separately after studying their vision documents wasn't needed. Instead, the CAC members could among themselves decide their choice and recommend it to the Supreme Court appointed Committee of Administrators (CoA).
 
 “The board members are keen that the Ganguly-Shastri spat shouldn't be repeated. The final call will be taken very soon,” a top board functionary told TOI on Saturday.
 
 There is further confusion over who is going to take the final call on the head coach. Will it be COA or BCCI? The mystery should be over soon.
 
 
 
 
 
 
