While car rallies and bike rides for women are all too common in the Millennium City, this Sunday saw a few lucky ladies from Gurgaon indulge in a driving experience of a rather different kind. They sat behind the wheel in specially modified cars on an off-roading adventure zone on the Gurgaon-Faridabad Road, attempting high jumps, dives through ditches, and even a drive through a pond as part of Gurgaon-based rally driver Bani Yadav's initiative to promote driving among women.

  The women were selected by Bani through a social media contest that she runs on her Facebook page, with all of them given a day-long experience of racing and off-roading by Bani and other professional drivers at an off-roading track in the city.
 
  
  Gurgaon's rally driver Bani Yadav (L) initiated the activity to promote racing among women
 
 
  Talking about the initiative, Bani told us, "I have been trying to get more women involved in driving, not just on the roads but on the tracks as well. The idea is that anybody with proper training can take up racing in whatever capacity they wish. So, these sorts of events and initiatives are required to familiarize women with what different options they have."
 
  
  
 
  The women were first taken around the track by Bani for a track-familiarisation run, following which they were briefed about the safety requirements by experts at the track. After that, each participant was paired with a driver, who took them for a run around the specially-designed off-roading track, complete with steep inclines, jumps, dives into ditches, and even a splash through a pond. For all the women, it was their first experience of off-roading and they couldn’t stop raving about it. Jyoti Gupta, a resident of Sector 17, said, "Driving through the pond was the most fun bit but there were scary parts as well. One time, we had to nosedive across a sharp decline into a ditch that was at least 10 feet deep and I was sure my back would give way. But, it was fun. In fact, I can still feel the adrenaline rush!"
 
  
  
 
  Several women said they had to set aside their fears in order to get into the cars but they were pleasantly surprised later at how fun it was. Payal Jain, another participant, told us, "I had no idea it would be this much fun. I was scared initially and was apprehensive about getting in the car but now, I am so pumped up that I want to sign up more sessions like these. I might buy a 4x4 of my own and start doing this regularly."
 
  
  Pragati Joshi enjoys her adventure ride (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 The professional off-roading drivers said they were quite impressed by the women as even though none of the women drove on the track themselves, they were quite enthusiastic about the experience. Vikramjeet, one of the experts at hand, said, "Off-roading culture is on the rise in Gurgaon and we need the involvement of more people for that to continue. The women showed great spirit and some even wanted to drive themselves, but that requires more experience and training. Some of them have actually showed interest in getting proper training so I’m just happy that we have more fans of off-roading in Gurgaon now."
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam
 
  
  
  ADVENTURE TIME: Bani Yadav (left) with one of the participants 
 
 
  
  From nosediving across a sharp decline into a ditch to crossing a muddy pool, this group of women had an adrenaline-pumping off-roading session (BCCL)
 
  
  (BCCL)
 
 
