SALEM: In his home district, the new   legislature party leader, Edappadi K Palanisamy, doesn’t seem to enjoy a large support base. According to party sources, about 80% of AIADMK functionaries in the district have started to work against the new contender for the state chief minister’s post.

 After the Supreme Court verdict in the disproportionate assets cases against interim AIADMK general secretary V K  , Edappadi Palanisamy was on Tuesday named the legislature party leader. Many AIADMK functionaries in Salem district expressed their discontent over the move, saying Palanisamy would only support the Gounder community.
 
 Commenting over Palanisamy’s elevation, former party   said it was the joke of 2017. “Sasikala’s ship, along with people sailing in it, will be drowned soon,” he said. O Panneerselvam, he said, was the only leader who can rescue the MLAs in Sasikala’s ship.
 
 Selvam was elected an MLA from Veerapandi constituency in 2011. He was not given a berth in the 2016 election. Selvam was side-lined by the party urban district secretary cum public works department minister Edappadi Palanisamy.
 
 Selvam initially supported Sasikala and he was appointed the state deputy secretary of Jayalalithaa Peravai, a unit of AIADMK, on February 3. He, however, switched loyalty to Panneerselvam a couple of days ago.
 
 Selvam said most AIADMK cadres didn’t want Palanisamy to become the chief minister, as he was “unfit” for the post.
 
 Another senior party leader and Mettur MLA   said Palanisamy was not capable to hold the chief minister’s post. Semmalai also extended his support to Panneerselvam. “Sasikala did not have any power to appoint Palanisamy as AIADMK legislature party leader,” he said.
 
 Semmalai was also opposed to T T V Dinakaran assuming charges as the party’s deputy general secretary. “As per the AIADMK by-law, she cannot perform as the interim general secretary. As such, her decisions and orders are void,” he said.
 
 Former MLAs M K Selvaraj and S E Venkatachalam also switched loyalty to  , expressing their discontent over Palanisamy’s elevation.
 
 
