Plato once said that   gives a soul to the universe, wings to the mind, flight to the imagination and life to everything. The earliest appreciation of music has been recorded in unborn babies, who react to strains of melody even from within the womb, and demonstrate accelerated brain development. New-born babies respond better when parents talk to them in a sing-song voice. It is not surprising, therefore, that music has been scientifically shown to transcend the ears and to have beneficial effects throughout the body. The harmonious notes of   and   music were recently shown to have restorative effects on   and the heart rate. 

 The randomized, controlled study included 120 subjects, half of whom listened to music for 25 minutes while the other half spent that time in a quiet room. The subjects who listened to music heard either W. A. Mozart, J. Strauss Jr., or the pop band ABBA. Blood pressure, heart rate, and cortisol concentration (a hormone released in response to stress) were measured for all participants before and after the experiment. The results were dramatic, as there was a significant reduction in blood pressure and heart rate among the subjects who heard Mozart or Strauss music, while there were no changes in subjects who spent time in silence or who heard music from ABBA. Among subjects who spent time in silence, only those who spent that time lying down had lowered blood pressure to a lesser extent than the music group. Cortisol concentrations were reduced in all participants in the music group, irrespective of music genre. Interestingly, the drop in cortisol levels was more pronounced for male participants who listened to Mozart or Strauss music than for female participants who heard the same music. Mozart’s music was found to be most effective in reducing blood pressure and heart rate. 
 
 So if something is stressing you out, plug in your headphones and listen to Mozart’s Symphony No. 40 in G minor. It is guaranteed to make you, and your heart, feel better.
 
 
 
 
 
