MUMBAI: While he's easily succeeded to replace MS   behind the stumps in India's Test team, even staving off stiff competition from   recently,   doesn't even get talked about when you discuss the heir apparent to Dhoni in the limited overs team.

 While he's arguably the best 'keeper in the world, doubts still persist about Saha's ability to chip in with the bat on a regular basis. His wiry frame doesn't even give one the confidence that he can come up with the big hits that Dhoni, and most modern-day great 'keeper-batsmen are known for.
 
 Coming into this must-win game against the   for  , the 32-year-old's best moment in IPL-10 had been a brilliant catch which the 32-year-old took after running all the way to the boundary behind him to send Royal Challengers Bangalore's Mandeep Singh packing.
 
 There have been occasions, though, when Saha has shown that he can take an attack to the cleaners. Three years back, he slammed a brilliant hundred in the   final in Bangalore against the Kolkata Knight Riders which went in vain. Earlier this year, with Patel at his heels as he strived to come back into the Test team after recovering from an injury, the Bengal gloveman cracked a match-winning double hundred for Rest of India against Gujarat which contained six sixes. Patel, ironically, watched that knock from behind the stumps.
 
 On Thursday night at the Wankhede Stadium, Patel again saw Saha at his clean-hitting best. Asked to suddenly open the innings by the Kings in another must-win game for them in place of Manan Vohra after a barren spell in the middle order, which saw him without a single fifty till his 13th game in the tournament, Saha cracked an unbeaten 93 (55b, 11x4, 3x6) -a knock which proved to be the difference in a thrilling seven-run win over the Mumbai Indian in a high-scoring match.
 
 "We've thrown him up and down the order, been a little harsh on him, but he's been superb," complimented Kings XI skipper   later. One thought that the Kings would struggle after Hashim Amla's departure (the South African had slammed two hundreds in the tournament) in the opening department, but Saha's blazing knock filled that void rather quickly.
 
 How a desperate situation brought out the best in Saha can be gauged from the fact that the veteran 'keeper-bat smashed more fours on Thursday night than he had hit all season before this match. Before his latest outing at the top, Saha had opened in only six out of 163 T20 matches, in which he had managed only 126 runs in six matches@ 21.
 
 Quizzed later on whether he's finally shown that he can bat in all formats, Saha, who was named as the Man of the Match for a knock which deserved a hundred, reacted: "I was told to open the innings and go hard at the bowlers. I tried to do so and stitched a good partnership with (Martin) Guptill. When Max came he also told me to carry on the momentum."
 
 The tall-scoring match saw Saha grind it out on the field for all the 40 overs of the high-intensity match. "As compared to Tests, it's not that tiring. But in T20 cricket, the intensity is high, you run a lot. While fielding also you need to show intensity. It's a bit hectic, but I enjoyed it. When you win, you forget everything," he said.
 
 Explaining his team's fearless attitude, which has helped it eke out wins in both its 'do or die matches so far with one more to go, Saha said: "We've gone in last couple of matches with an attitude of nothing to lose."
 
 The match saw MI failing to get 16 off the last over even after Kieron Pollard had smashed seamer   for a six off the second ball, as the bowler came up with three consecutive dots to seal the fate of the match. Saha revealed that with Pollard tiring towards the end, Maxwell and Mohit devised a plan to fire in yorkers to the big West Indian.
 
 "Pollard was playing well, but he was tired in the end so if some good yorkers were bowled to him, it would be tough for him to hit. Initially, Mohit tried a slower ball, which is his strength, the 'knuckle ball,' but Pollard hit it for a six, but he then moved to the 'team plan,' and bowled good yorkers," elaborated the gloveman.
 
