CHENNAI: In a timely, and some would argue overdue, development given a spike in cases of abuse and deaths in illegal drug and alcohol   in the city and across the state, the government will soon set up a new   authority to register and monitor such facilities as well as psychiatric clinics in Tamil Nadu.

 A health official in Tamil Nadu said the government will soon start the process of setting up the new authority.
 
 The  , passed by  , stipulates that every state must by December establish a health secretary-chaired   consisting of 15 members.
 
 The authority will be responsible for the registration of mental health establishments, clinical psychologists, mental health nurses and psychiatric social workers. It will publish online details of these facilities and professionals, receive complaints and take appropriate action.
 
 “A full-fledged authority will make licensing and monitoring of mental institutions and rehabilitation centres systematic,” the state health official said.
 
 Institute of Mental Health, Kilpauk, now issues licenses to rehabilitation centres for the mentally ill and de-addiction centres and the Tamil Nadu State Mental Health Authority — which the new body will replace — regulates these establishments. Owing to a manpower shortage, however, once the authorities issue licences, they rarely visit these centres, leaving great leeway for poor treatment of inmates.
 
 “A single psychiatrist conducts inspections and that person is responsible for finding the means to visit the facilities, many of which are on the city’s outskirts,” an IMH source said.
 
 Around 15 lakh people in the state suffer from alcohol and substance abuse problems. Data from the state mental health authority shows only 19 private de-addiction centres in Tamil Nadu have licences. These include four in Chennai. More than two dozen rehabilitation centres in the city function without permission.
 
  of T T Ranganathan Clinical Research Foundation, which runs a de-addiction centre, welcomed the move to set up a mental health authority. She said many people who come to the foundation’s facility have escaped the horrors of unlicensed centres.
 
 “Alcoholism is a disease that requires treatment,” she said. “Chaining them and beating them them are not cures.”
 
