HUBBALI:   on Friday demanded an   by a retired high court judge into the death of wrestler Santosh Hosamani.

 Speaking to reporters, Joshi said that lapses in taking precautionary measures during the recently concluded State Olympic Meet caused the death of a sportsman. “District minister Vinay Kulkarni must take moral responsibility for Santosh’s death,” he said.
 
 He sought to know why officials shifted Santosh to KIMS hospital from a private hospital while denying to pay just Rs 50,000. “Why sportsmen were not insured? Why severely injured wrestler was shifted to KIMS when his health deteriorated? Where was crores of rupees that was collected for the meet, spent? These questions need to be answered. There is a need for an independent inquiry by a retired high court judge,” he opined.
 
 He demanded a compensation of Rs 25 lakh for the kin of Santosh and a government job for one of his family members.
 
 
 
 
 Former state BJP president Joshi demanded the state government to order an inquiry into the CD which allegedly contained a conversation between BJP leaders B S Yeddyurappa and Ananthkumar where both talked about giving money to party high-command. 
 
 “The CD is edited by the Congress leaders to suit their design before releasing it to media. We welcome any type of investigation into the matter. But the state government should also investigate into the dairy which is allegedly recovered by IT sleuths during a raid on MLC Govindraj’s residencee,” he said.
 
 To a question, he said there is no need to reveal the source which provided details about the diary to Yeddyurappa. “Whatever he (Yeddyurappa) has said is true. He himself has announced that he will quit politics if his information is wrong. The state government should now show courage to order an investigation into both CD and diary issues simultaneously’ he said.
 
 He asserted that BJP is conducting a state-wide protest on Februry 20 condemning alleged corruption in the state government and demanding resignation of minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, MLA MTB Nagaraj, whose houses were raided by the income tax officials.
 
