Gauri-Sarda Joshi was waiting for her friend on a busy Pune street, skimming her book. But she couldn't focus, because of a young man staring at her, openly and intensely. "My first instinct was to smooth down my knee-length skirt, and hunch my shoulders — a relic of my social training," she says.
 
  A split-second later, reason kicked in. As did anger. She turned, looked straight at him, and asked with some aggression: "Kya hai?" "That must've been a new experience for him, because he stepped back and averted his eyes," she says.
  
  Joshi, a psychologist and blogger, was only describing one of the most routine experiences that women go through. Sometimes, it's a slack-jawed stare, sometimes it's a courtship ploy, and sometimes the gaze is deliberate and predatory. It happens irrespective of a woman's attire, build, age, class or marital status. It happens on buses and trains, in banks and, of course, on the street. In fact, foreign tourists have written countless blogs on our staring habit and Quora has at least six questions on the subject.
  
  Men often don't get the fuss — it's just a look, big deal, they shrug. But women feel a low-grade discomfort all the time, never knowing when it might escalate into actual threat. Neha, an IT employee, was being dropped home after a night shift when she realised that the driver was observing her constantly through the rear-view mirror. "I looked away, but he didn't." She was unnerved enough to send a quick email to her administrative head at work. The man has since left the job, but Neha worries that he may be vindictive. And in fact, last week, Rasila Raju OP, an Infosys software engineer working in Pune was killed by a security guard after she called him out for staring at her. "Much as we wish to give it back, circumstances sometimes hold us back, because we fear for our own safety," says banker Kavita Sharma.
 
  Even without actual violence, it constricts women. Girls are conditioned to never relax in public, because it is up to them to ward off the evil eye. In fact, a joint study by a team of US and Israeli researchers showed women go silent if they feel they are being checked out. A recent   showed the many defensive moves women use: re-arranging dupattas, shielding their breasts with their handbags, and pulling down their hems to make sure no skin is visible.
  
  This   doesn't just happen on the street. Rasila may have been attacked by a security guard, but senior office colleagues are just as likely to be starers. "We have come across cases where women have been made to feel very uncomfortable during appraisals," says a manager at a pharmaceuticals company in Pune. A member of the committee tackling sexual harassment says: "When women complain about a man staring, there is usually no action, a warning at most. When they complain to the committee, it insists on a written complaint and that's where most women withdraw, because the process is lengthy and they fear persecution," she says. Men are commonly let off with a warning, it is the women who usually change their jobs, she says.
  
  Legally, there is some recognition of the problem. Kerala IPS officer Rishiraj Singh recently caused some controversy when he claimed that staring at a woman for more than 14 seconds was a punishable offence. While there is no 14-second rule, Singh says that a woman has the right to seek recourse under Section 354C and 354D, voyeurism and stalking, apart from the law against outraging the modesty of a woman. Making lewd gestures or obscene remarks are recognised as offences under the law too. National crime data for 2015 shows that of the 768 cases of voyeurism registered in the country, the highest were from Maharashtra (120) followed by Andhra Pradesh with 112 cases and Odisha that registered 65 cases.
  
  But most often, a woman doesn't want to allege that her "modesty has been outraged" over a look or stare. And the fixes are not legal, but social. "It is the family's responsibility to treat their sons and daughters equally. When there is discrimination, in terms of what they wear or do, when they are allowed to go out, boys acquire a sense of superiority, which creates problems for women later," says Pune police commissioner Rashmi Shukla.
  
  After all, the reason "a mere look" is so loaded is because of power asymmetry — the woman feels vulnerable and reduced by that stare. It will take conscious counter-programming to change that, for both men and women.
  
  Meanwhile, thank God for the smartphone which has given men something else to look at.
  
  
 
