Jalandhar: With the arrest of four accused in the murder case of a 50-year-old migrant woman by Jalandhar (rural) police, the latter claimed that two of the accused had confessed to raping her. The victim and all four accused are from same village in Bihar and distant relatives. Two of the accused are 19-year-old and had come to Punjab just two months back.

 Deceased Girija Devi had gone missing on the night of September 16 on the occasion of a small party hosted by her son to celebrate the birth of his son at the farmhouse where they were working and staying in Hailran village. Her half-naked body with injury marks was found in the fields at some distance from the place where she was living. 
 
 Jalandhar (rural) SSP Gurpreet Singh Bhullar while announcing the arrests here on Wednesday, said that the deceased’s son Dalip Dass had told them that at the end of the party he noticed that his mother was not there. He assumed that she might have gone to their employer’s house in the village to sleep. However, the next day when he went to feed the cattle he noticed a broken bangle of his mother lying in the verandah. He went further towards the rear side and found that there were marks of person being dragged towards fields. 
 
 Deepak told the police that when he went further into the fields while following the marks he found the body of his mother. Deepak suspected Chhotu Dass Sharma, 35, to be involved in the murder. Chhotu had a tiff during the party with the deceased as he had come there uninvited. Chhotu and three others Vikas (27), Biru Kumar and Matlesh Kumar (both 19) left the party and went to the other side of the farmhouse. All of them were working at the farm of another farmer in the village.
 
 Bhullar said that the four wanted to steal a cow to teach Chhotu a lesson but they were spotted by Girija. On questioning, the accused revealed that they suspected that Girija would raise an alarm and they caught hold of her and dragged her to a side. There Chhottu and Vikas raped her. Then they attacked her with bricks while the two younger ones hit her with blows. She died and was then dragged into the fields.
 
 The SSP said that the deceased and the accused hailed from Rajni Dheri village in Madhepura district of Bihar and were distantly related. In the village there they were having a dispute between the families of the deceased and Chhotu Ram’s family. While the latter had been living in Punjab for the last 15 years, the other three had come here two months back to earn livelihood. Accused Vikas and Matlesh are brothers he added. 
 
 
