LUCKNOW: Governor   has raised strong objections over the way the election commission has decided to declare the results of the council seats in the   during the multi-phased voting for   in the state.

 Recording his dissent in the file sent to him for consent to the notification for the elections to the five Council seats in the state, Naik remarked, “It is against the spirit of free and fair elections.”
 
 The commission has notified that elections to five council seats three from the graduate constituencies and two teachers would be held on February 3 and results will be declared on February 6. In both categories, graduates and teachers who are perceived to be intellectuals vote for their candidates. The outcome of the council elections can be exploited by the winners in the assembly elections, felt the governor and asked the EC to withhold results till electioneering for assembly elections is over.
 
 Election Commission had sent a file related to elections to five council seats to Naik with the polling and result dates. Naik noted that announcing results while electioneering is in full swing might influence the mood and minds of voters.
 
 Naik had received the file from the state government at 11am, on Monday but he returned the file immediately to the commission expressing his disapproval. When Election Commission bars the pre-poll surveys on TV channels and newspapers lest it influenced the voters, result of council elections should also be seen in the same light, said the governor as he returned the file.
 
 Election Commission, however, declined to accept the objections of the governor and sent it back for approval.
 
 The same night, the governor, cleared the file so that there was no impediment in the process of elections for the Council. But before giving his consent he expressed his dissent again.
 
 Earlier, Naik had taken on the   for forcing him to approve nine controversial names for the council it had recommended. But since four names were tainted he insisted the ruling party changed them.
 
