NAGPUR: After missing the bus narrowly when the Indian squad was announced a couple of weeks ago for the forthcoming BWF World Junior   Championship, city shuttler   got a belated call to be included in the national side on Friday.

 The 18-year-old was drafted into the U-19 team as a member of the doubles team. Sourabh and   of Chhattisgarh will now be the third mixed doubles pair in the Indian squad. Both, Sourabh and Diksha were added to the national side at the last moment. According to Badminton Association of India (BAI) sources, Ira Sharma and Vaishnavi Jakka Reddy have withdrawn from the team which forced the selection committee to fill the berths from the reserves list.
 
 “Sourabh and Diksha were in the reserves. They have been playing quite well in the national junior circuit this season. They had reached semifinals in the All India Junior Ranking tournaments at Thiruvananthapuram, Bengaluru and Chennai. We needed a third pair in the mixed doubles so we chose them,” said the sources.
 
 In the U-19 mixed doubles BAI rankings, Sourabh and Diksha occupy the fourth slot and experts say they have the potential to move up. Sourabh’s parents Yashwant and   said they received the letter from the Maharashtra Badminton Association (MBA) on Friday.
 
 “We were disappointed when Sourabh did not get selected in the first instance. But now we are happy that he will be wearing India colours for the first time and that too at the Worlds,” said Kerhalkar.
 
 Sourabh has been asked to report to the coaching camp which began at the Prakash Padukone Badminton Academy in Bengaluru on Friday. The Worlds will be held at Djakarta, Indonesia, from October 9 to 20. “It’s a dream come true for me. I will definitely do my best. Diksha and I have been consistently performing well,” said Sourabh.
 
 Sourabh becomes the first boy from Vidarbha to represent the country. He will join citymates Ritika Thaker and Malvika Bansod who have already been selected in the team. Sourabh is a member of Ajay Dayal Badminton Academy and student of   part 1 in Ramdeobaba College of Engineering and Management.
 
 “Sourabh has been performing consistently this year and his inclusion in the Indian team will further spur him. That three players from city are at the Worlds is a remarkable achievement,” said Dayal.
 
