Unlike many other star kids,   didn’t enjoy a big launch in Bollywood. Though she made her debut in 2010 ('Teen Patti'), it was only with 'Aashiqui 2' (2013) that she tasted success. However, since then, the actress has been slowly and steadily making inroads into the industry. With her first ever attempt at a biopic, ' ', all set to hit screens and another one on   in the pipeline, Shraddha is living her childhood dream of being a Bollywood heroine. Excerpts from her conversation with BT…

 
 
 When   (director) narrated the story of Haseena Parkar, I was amazed that it was a true story. I couldn’t even imagine dealing with the kind of losses she has experienced in her life. Naturally, essaying a complex character like her has been an emotionally draining experience. Even now, there are days when I feel the heaviness that I used to feel while getting into the character of Haseena. After the trailer released, many people told me that they were not expecting me to play a character like this. So, if the film is appreciated, it would mean a lot to me because it is very different from what I have done so far. 
 
 
 
 To understand the quiet confidence that she gains on becoming Aapa, I borrowed some inspiration from 'The Godfather'. However, the main driving force was her own experiences and how they shaped her. 
 
 
 As an actor, you are living out the director’s vision. He tells you how he sees the character and how he expects you to breathe life into it. Though I give my inputs too, every film and director is different, and I adapt myself to the way each filmmaker works. Talking about this film, Apoorva was like a bank of information; he had researched on the film for close to two years and had even interacted with Haseena before her death in 2014. During our interactions, I would listen intently and absorb everything that he was saying. I met her family as well. I tried to empathise with her character because in a way, her story is heartbreaking. I prepped a lot for the role, including putting on weight. 
 
 
 
 I have changed a lot as an actor since my first film. Earlier, I used to think that I couldn’t do many things; I had immense self-doubt. Though I have made a conscious effort to change that, I think I will always be a little doubtful about my performances because that is who I am. 
 
  
 
 It doesn’t matter whether films are male or female-centric, people want to watch content-driven movies. 'Queen', 'Mary Kom' and 'Neerja' received the appreciation they did because of their stories. Also, these films were inspiring. 
 
 
 
 I am proud that I am Shakti Kapoor’s daughter. My father has done more than 700 films and the love and adulation he has received is humbling. I have a long way to go before I achieve even a small percentage of that. Today, there are heated debates about star kids and outsiders, but a lot of people didn’t even know that I had two releases before 'Aashiqui 2'. There were also those who were unaware that I am Shakti Kapoor’s daughter. Between my first film and 'Aashiqui 2', I have lost count of the screen tests and auditions that I appeared for. I have also lost count of the number of rejections that I faced. Even after 'Aashiqui 2', I had to audition for 'Haider'. The point is, one has to work hard to get a film. There is no success formula that one can follow in the industry. Everyone’s journey is different; they have had their struggles to overcome and I have had mine. However, when it’s your childhood dream to be an actress, you somehow find the strength to fulfill it. 
 
 
 
 When a film scares and excites me at the same time, I want to be a part of it; I get a kick out of it. When 'Saaho' was offered to me, I was thrilled because I will be playing a cop for the first time. What was also challenging was the fact that I would be speaking in two languages, Telugu and Hindi. Talking about the Saina Nehwal biopic, preparations are on in full swing; I have already completed 33 sessions of training in badminton, with each session lasting two hours. For me, it’s a huge responsibility to portray Saina on the big screen. 
 
 
 The scrutiny on my personal life doesn’t affect me anymore. I don’t read the papers or watch TV. I watch movies, documentaries and interesting videos on my laptop. I’m very clear about where my focus lies. I get involved with whatever I do and if something doesn’t interest me, I won’t even look in that direction. 
 
  
 
 
