NEW DELHI: The first week of matches (April 5-12) in   2017 has produced some exciting performances, with Nitish Rana turning in two match-winning innings for  ,   hitting consecutive unbeaten forties to put Kings XI Punjab on top of the points table and Sanju Samson hitting the first century of the season for a rejuvenated  . 

 But for his leading role in helping defending champions   to the top of the IPL 10 leaderboard and then putting in a special performance as they slipped to second following defeat to MI on Wednesday, it is   who gets our vote for Player of the Week. 
 
 His opportunities in India's Test team have tailed off, but back in the IPL, Bhuvneshwar has picked up from where he left off for SRH last season. In 2016, he was the   holder with 23 wickets while leading Sunrisers' excellent bowling unit, and after three matches of IPL 2017 the Purple Cap is back on Bhuvneswar's head. Three matches, seven wickets at an outstanding economy rate of 5.75. He's struck every 10.2 deliveries, and each wicket has cost a measly 9.85 runs. 
 
 In the tournament opener versus Royal Challengers Bangalore, Bhuvneshwar took 2/27, the most economical four-over spell of all the SRH bowlers. At the death, his slow cutters were nearly impossible to score off and one such delivery duped Stuart Binny. In Sunrisers' second match, Bhuvneshwar did better with 2/21, his wickets being that of Jason Roy for 31 and Gujarat Lions' top scorer   for 37. On Wednesday, Bhuvneshwar fetched 3/21 from four overs with the wickets of Nitish Rana,   and Krunal Pandya to claim the Purple Cap. 
 
 Like last season, Bhuvneshwar's bowling so far has been controlling and nagging, and he's sent down 31 dot balls in 12 overs. His team-mate Rashid Khan, the first Afghanistan cricketer to play in the IPL, has been exciting to watch as well, taking five wickets with his legspin, and should the pair continue their excellent work and Mustafizur Rahman hit his straps after a bad start to IPL 10, it could be Sunrisers' year again. 
 
