THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A wiry man ambles along the pier, pauses for a   at the edge and in a quick flash, takes a long  ,   that sparkled in the hot sun. For a while, he disappears as though devoured by the ranting waves and then suddenly emerges, his cupped arms loaded with green mussels. Niyas, the fisherman residing at Valiyathura has just begun his routine; plunging into the depths of the sea upto 70 metres and scooping up green  , the priced delicacy for the sea food lovers and a source of sustenance for Niyas and his folk. 

 A hand glove covers his palms ridden with marks of wound; an after effect of handpicking sharp edged molluscs whose edges could slice through the flesh like a razor, going by his own words. The glove is his sole addition as he takes the dive which has cost many people their lives and left many others with deep injuries. A sack is tagged to a rope which hangs from the top of the pier. The collected mussels are packed into the sack, secured by a string.
 
 It's a risky business. They have to stay at depths of 60-65 metres below the sea without any kind of breathing apparatus. The molluscs are found mostly around the pillars of the pier and the collectors brave strong waves as they balance themselves in the sand to pluck the mussels. If the waves turn rough, they are tossed around and some of them end up being crashed against the pillars of the pier. “Some of them had suffered serious injuries and in some cases deaths have also occurred. But for them it is their means of livelihood and they risk everything to earn that,” says  , former ward councillor, Valiyathura.
 
 With shrinking shores making fishing with traditional ‘kamba’ nets difficult, most of them turn to mussel collection, which find a good number of takers especially the hoteliers around the beach. A single mussel could fetch us Rs 5. Two hours of work would earn us a decent income a day,” says Niyas.
 
 The collection touches the peak during April and May and they makes the most of it since they will have to wait for another six months before mussels could be found in abundance. “The two kinds of mussels; green and brown are rich in polysaturated fats and are extremely tasty. Naturally they find good business,” says an official with department of fisheries.
 
