Kolhapur: The Shivaji University, Kolhapur (SUK) in a circular on February 10 has warned its affiliated colleges to effectively communicate on the official e-mail id of SUK.

 The circular said that since all the affiliated colleges have been given separate e-mail ids for effective communication last year,many have not been using or responding to official e-mails.
 
 The circular added, “Even after reminding the colleges, they seem to be ignoring our instructions disrespecting the university guidelines. We are planning to de-affiliate such colleges and the exam related work of the college too shall be paused.”
 
 On September 26 last year, director, Board of Colleges and University Development (BCUD), D R More circulated an official circular stating colleges which will not abide by the instruction will be penalised. Despite receiving instructions, many colleges have not been complying with the said instructions.
 
 The circular published then said that if the affiliated colleges are not complying with SUK instructions, will be counted as a serious offence. It was also mentioned that if the same functioning continues from other colleges, then their affiliation, eligibility, and the exam functioning will be stopped.
 
 In January last year, Shivaji University, Kolhapur (SUK) had decided go paperless. In an official circular on December 30, 2015 official e-mail communication was made mandatory by the university.
 
 Vice-chancellor of SUK, Devanand Shinde, describing the issue, said, “We want our communication to go paperless and email is the best platform for it. Our IT cell has created separate email ids, which have been already sent to the colleges, which I am quite hopeful will be used by them.”
 
 He added, “It is an eco-friendly initiative as the paper consumption will decline drastically. We often had to face conventional issues like we have not received the courier. Therefore, we decided to start formal e-mail conversations.”
 
 It has to be noted that the SUK has as many as 282 affiliated colleges in Sangli, Satara and Kolhapur districts.
 
 
