BENGALURU: The concluding day of the state executive committee meeting of the BJP ended in a public spectacle of the widening rift between the two veteran leaders, B S Yeddyurappa and K S Eshwarappa. 

 The duo publicly traded invectives and charges, fuelling speculation that national leaders could arrive soon to douse the raging fires of rebellion in the state unit of the party. 
 
 "BJP leaders should only participate in party-led conventions and not in other conventions. If someone dares, it will not be tolerated," said Yeddyurappa, issuing a veiled warning to Eshwarappa soon after the two-day convention ended here on Sunday. 
 
 In a counter-attack, Eshwar appa said no one can stop him from participating in the convention organized by the  , since it as an apolitical organization. 
 
 Adding to the insult, he went on to participate in a convention of the Sangolli Rayanna Brigade organized by suspended BJP leader   at Afzalpur town. Eshwarappa said he would also participate in the mega rally of the brigade to be held on January 26 at   in Bagalkot district, and none can stop him. 
 
 "The intention of the brigade is to unite dalits and backward classes and provide justice. I have given a clarification to the party leaders and they have endorsed it. Only Yeddyurappa is opposing the brigade as he is not aware of our intentions," Eshwarappa said.
 
 Earlier, Yeddyurappa said he had apprised the BJP leadership about the brigade that Eshwarappa was endorsing, and they clearly told him not to tolerate such activities. "We are bound to follow our national leaders' diktat. When there is a lot of opportunity to strengthen the party within, there is no need of other platforms,'' he said, adding that he would not endorse the activities of the brigade at any cost. He also said that differences between him and Eshwarappa and other leaders came up because of the brigade and this is heavily hurting the party's image and its prospects in the 2018 assembly poll.
 
  Too close for comfort? 
 
 The bitter discord between the two leaders was more palpable on the second day of the BJP's state executive meeting here on Sunday. Yeddyurappa, who was given the seat next to Eshwarappa, refused to take it. Instead, he asked Union minister   to sit next to Eshwarappa and he took Jigajinagi's seat -- much to the embarrassment of Eshwarappa.
 
 In an emotional address at the concluding ceremony of the executive committee meeting, Yeddyurappa pleaded for unity and said PM   and party's national chief Amit shah are working hard to build the nation and party. "We must not trouble national leaders with our issues. We must sort it out ourselves," he added. Yeddyurappa said the mood of people is in favour of the BJP and lakhs of workers are working hard to help the party come to power.
 
  "At this juncture, we must not be selfish and defeat the hard work of our workers. We have to sort out our differences and unite for the sake of people. I am ready for talks and to sort out differences with anyone. I have no ego,'' he said to loud applause from party workers. 
 
