CHANDIGARH: The Supreme Court on Thursday issued notice to media mogul Subhash   and Union minister Birender Singh on a plea filed by noted lawyer R K   against dismissal of his plea challenging their election to the Rajya Sabha (RS) from Haryana.

 On March 23, Justice P B Bajanthri of the Punjab and Haryana high court had dismissed Anand’s election petition after allowing Chandra’s plea that election petition filed against him was not in the prescribed format.
 
 In his appeal before the apex court, advocate Anand, who was supported by Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) and the  , has alleged corrupt practice and questioned election process for the RS seats held on June 11, 2016.
 
 An FIR has also been registered in this case on directions of the election commission (EC) after Anand had accused the staff on election duty in state assembly of replacing the original pen prescribed by the poll panel. FIR is still pending for investigation with the Chandigarh Police.
 
 As per the mandatory provisions of the law under Section 83 (1) of the Representation of People Act, 1951, where the election petitioner alleges any corrupt practice, the petitioner is bound to file an affidavit accompany with the election petition in the prescribed form in support of the allegation of such corrupt practice and the particulars thereof.
 
 The affidavit should have been filed along with the petition in prescribed form “FORM 25”. But R K Anand had not filed any such affidavit in the prescribed format, which led to his petition before the HC being denied.
 
 Election for two seats of RS from Haryana was held on June 11, 2016. Anand has been alleging that he had learnt through reliable sources that Chandra had met the returning officer at the Vidhan Sabha in the presence of several people a day before the election.
 
 He alleged that Chandra was shown the pen – a violet ink sketch pen – that was to be used for marking votes on ballot papers the following day. Anand stated that the official pen was removed from the polling area in a clandestine and dishonest manner in an effort to sabotage the election.
 
