KOLKATA: With blood banks running out of supply even as   picks up the pace, a   looms large over the city. While government hospitals don’t have adequate stock of blood, several private banks are finding it difficult to meet the demand. It could get even worse by April-end unless collection improved dramatically, fear blood banks. 

 The scene could have been slightly better if   could save the 800 units that were discarded on Monday as they reportedly crossed their use-by date, said a source.
 
 Kolkata requires around 6 lakh units of blood a year. Around 60%-65% of the demand is usually met by blood banks, while the rest comes from donors arranged by patients’ families. “Fortunately, very few people die owing to lack of blood. But the supply often slows down in summer as fewer donation camps are held at this time. So, summer is usually a tough time. The loss of 800 units on Monday is a blow and perhaps couldn’t have come at a worse time,” said Debabrata Ray of Association of Voluntary Blood Donors. Sources said that the bood discarded on Monday could not be used. “It was not excess blood. Rather, the units were infected, unusable samples that had been collected. It had to be disposed of,” he said.
 
 Ray said it was a plausible explanation: “A certain percentage of collected blood is rejected as they fail to clear the mandatory HIV, Hepaptitis A and B and syphilis tests. We are told the discarded blood also included some leaking blood bags that had rendered their contents unusable.”
 
 Among the banks facing   is Life Care Blood Bank, where all the groups are short in supply. “Collection drops to just about 10%-15% in April-May. It’s not as bad as it used to be a decade ago. But people still have misconception about donating blood in summer,” said a representative of the bank. People’s   has run out of A+ blood and has no negative group in stock. 
 
 A small camp was held on Monday that could come as a breather. “But unless we have more camps, we will head for a dry period soon. Camp bookings are very few in April and May. So far, no camp is slated for June. More importantly, collection has dropped drastically,” said Subhrajit Adhikari of People’s Blood Bank.
 
 
