CHANDIGARH:   Captain   on Thursday warned of a   in the old Naxalite and Khalistani belt of southern Punjab if the Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal construction was to be done “without taking the ground realities into account”. The former CM said that with due deference and respect to the Supreme Court, its directive on the SYL canal completion before going into the question of availability of water amounted to putting the cart before the horse.

 Pointing to the huge infrastructural cost involved in the canal construction, which would all come to naught if there was no water found subsequently to share with the neighbouring states, Amarinder urged the apex court to take cognizance of water availability and quantum in Punjab.
 
 It was imperative first to make an independent and fresh assessment to check if there was water available in Punjab, and how much, if any, could be spared for sharing, said he added.
 
 If the court, in its wisdom, later discovered that there was no water then the money invested in SYL canal construction would go down the drain, the state Congress chief said, adding that the cash crunched state of Punjab could ill afford it.
 
 Amarinder’s comments came even as tensions between the two states touched a high amid the Indian National Lok Dal’s attempts to force entry into Punjab to start digging the canal.
 
 Reacting to INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala’s threat not to allow any Punjab leader to enter Haryana, Amarinder termed it totally irresponsible and a “desperate bid to revive the party following Thursday’s flop show”. No Indian citizen could be prevented from going to any part of the country, he added.
 
 The Congress’s CM candidate pointed out that the Supreme Court itself had on Wednesday taken note of the looming threat of law and order breakdown as a result of the INLD action and had directed the governments in the two states to ensure that peace was maintained at all costs.
 
 Amarinder claimed that an estimated 10 lakh acres of land in southern Punjab was expected to go dry as a result of SYL canal and the 6 lakh-odd people of the region, which had a history of militancy and extremism, would be forced to resort to violence to feed their children. “The subsoil water in the area was brackish and the people were dependent on canal water even for their drinking needs,” he said, warning that the people would come out on the streets if their crops dried up and their families were deprived of even the basic necessities of life.
 
 On PM Narendra Modi’s statement that he would bring excess Indus river water flowing into Pakistan to Punjab, Amarinder told some newspersons that it was mere political rhetoric, which would lead to the creation of an international SYL canal issue. “Does he want to trigger a war with Pakistan,” he demanded to know, adding that Pakistan would not take any move by India to forcibly take away water in violation of the Indus Valley Treated, created under the World Bank guidance in 1960.
 
 
