By: 
 

  does not like talking about that horrific morning in November 2013 when she was attacked inside the   in NR Square. The attacker,  , repeatedly attacked her on the head with a machete and left her for dead inside the ATM; he rolled down the shutters as he escaped with her  .
 
 Nearly 40 months after her brush with death, Jyothi is waiting to bring Reddy to justice. Reddy was brought to Bengaluru after he was arrested in Andhra Pradesh recently. Jyothi will be brought face to face with Reddy so that he can be identified as her attacker and the police are able to build a watertight case.
 
 “Why should I let him go scot-free? I will face him and identify him whenever the police ask me to do so. He should not be allowed to be out on the streets as he could target someone else tomorrow,” Jyothi told Bangalore Mirror.
 
 “I will ask either my husband or one of my colleagues to accompany me but I will stand in front of him and identify him. I generally do not prefer to talk about that incident, but yes, life has not been the same for me and my family ever since,” she said.
 
 The 47-year-old senior manager working with the service branch of Corporation Bank on Mission Road says she has become cautious and stronger ever since Reddy left her in a pool of blood inside the ATM centre, a couple of metres away from her workplace.
 
 “Initially, I thought some security officer had walked in and was pulling down the shutters to load cash into the machine.
 
 “But then within seconds I realised that something was seriously wrong. He kept saying ‘Eshtide? Eshtide? (How much? How much?) in Kannada. But I remember that I did not panic and scream till he started attacking me. I do not want to talk about that incident,” she said.
 
 Jyothi was hospitalised for a month and her condition was very critical when she was rushed to the hospital. With her family and friends firmly by her side, she recovered and was discharged from hospital a month after the incident.
 
 Her husband,  , runs a coffee distribution agency in Kengeri, and their daughter is all set to enter first grade this academic year. The family resides at Raja Rajeswari Nagar. Jyothi said her daughter does not know about the incident. One of the biggest regrets she has is about the time she lost spending with her daughter after she got caught in a tedious cycle of recuperation and recovery after the attack.
 
 “But she seems to understand something major happened in our life especially whenever some media channels come with cameras and equipment,” she said.
 
 “I have recovered but am still taking some medicines. I am yet to regain full mobility on the right side of my body but otherwise I am perfectly fine. After initial hospitalisation, we also tried Ayurvedic treatment with our relatives in Kerala,” Jyothi said.
 
 Jyothi rejoined work at Corporation Bank in February 2014 as she thought it would be therapeutic for her and also help her forget about the ordeal. She works the morning shift at the service branch of Corporation Bank.
 
 “I reach work around 8.15 am. Here at the service branch we do not have to directly deal with customers and it is mostly about clearing banking documents. Everyone at the office is also helpful both here (Mission Road) and also at the RR Nagar branch (where she was posted for a while after the attack),” Jyothi said. “She is very hard working. Neither she nor anybody in the office discuss about that incident. All of us want her to put that behind her and move ahead,” said PK Sarangadhaaran, Chief Manager, Corporation Bank (service branch).
 
 Jyothi used to ride her two wheeler often but now she commutes to work by bus or auto as she is yet to regain full control of the right side of her body. “Sometimes I prefer to walk with my daughter. Like tomorrow (Friday) we are going to her school to get her first grade text books.”
 
 
