BENGALURU: A   found on the pavement in front of a preschool in   on Wednesday morning sent locals, parents and police into a tizzy, after unidentified persons dialled Namma 100 and complained about the “suspicious object resembling an explosive“.

 Two and a half hours of drama ended after police declared the object as nothing but a “discarded power bank that had gone kaput”. Police sources admitted they too were tense till the first signs of the object not being an explosive emerged during the sniffer dog drill. “They usually bark if they smell an explosive. But the two dogs began wagging their tails and we heaved a sigh of relief, “a source said.
 
 Chaos began around 7.25am when the police control room received a call from a person who spoke in Kannada and said there was a suspicious object on the pavement, which could be an explosive.
 
 Personnel from   cordoned off the spot as well as three adjacent roads. Panic gripped the area as it was the time when officegoers were en route to work and parents were headed to schools to drop their children.
 
 A crowd started milling around as rumours of an explosive being planted spread. The preschool, Brooklands, declared a holiday for its nearly 40 children. Students of another school across the road were evacuated from the rear entrance. Staffers in both schools were told by police not to use their mobile phones as a precautionary measure. By 8am, the bomb disposal squad arrived with metal detectors and a pair of sniffer dogs. The canines sniffed the object from a safe distance and then from a closer range. Though they gave the clear signal, police didn't want to take any chance.
 
 The bomb disposal squad then deployed metal detectors to crosscheck, and finally opened the object. By 10am, the area was sanitized and the object was identified as a defunct power bank.
 
 Additional commissioner of police (west) Malini Krishnamoorthy said they will investigate whether it was an act of mischief or carelessness. “Whether it was done intentionally to create panic or a random act of carelessness will be known, “she said.
 
 Puttenahalli police registered a suo motu case and took the statement of Sohail Khan, principal, Brooklands preschool.
 
