PATNA: The   (SIT), constituted to probe the   (BSSC) question paper leak and job racket, raided the panel’s secretary   Ram’s residence at Bhagwat Nagar under the Agamkuan police station area and found some incriminating documents from there. “Some suspicious documents have been found. Several other documents are being scrutinized after which they would be seized,” ASP (Operation) Rakesh Dubey said while the raid was on.
 
  Earlier in the day, Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj, ASP Dubey, Danapur SDPO Rajesh Kumar and other SIT members quizzed the BSSC secretary at his office for at least six hours. Parmeshwar was interrogated about the process of printing question booklets and conducting the examination. The special cell of Patna police led by DSP Birendra Kumar Sahi also grilled him on several aspects related to the examination. Around 50 other BSSC officials were also interrogated.
  
  Chief minister   on Monday ordered a probe in the paper leak after the questions allegedly went viral on WhatsApp hours before the Intermediate level examination for clerical posts started on Sunday. Similar allegations were made after the first round of examination held on January 29. Several persons have been arrested across the state for their alleged involvement in either providing in advance the questions to the candidates appearing at the examination or helping them with answers through bluetooth and other electronic devices.
  
  “The SIT quizzed the BSSC secretary to know the details of examination pattern and the procedure adopted for setting questions and printing the booklets,” the SSP said, adding that around 50 other officials of the commission were simultaneously quizzed.
  
  SSP said the SIT has also procured a sample question booklet of Sunday’s examination to verify it with the handwritten answer keys which went viral on social media platforms allegedly before the exam commenced. “We will prepare a questionnaire for Parmeshwar and others on the basis of which they would be quizzed again,” he said.
  
  Meanwhile, Patna police on Tuesday moved the court of Danapur’s additional chief judicial magistrate (ACJM) for four days’ remand of Munna Kumar, Nitish Kumar Singh and Rahul Kumar who were arrested on January 28 from Shivala under Shahpur police station area on the charge of running a racket to leak BSSC questions. Munna had also taken money from some candidates for providing them the answer keys. A similar gang was also busted on February 4 at Bhootnath Road in Patna. Police officials claimed that Rs4-5 lakh was paid by each candidate to seek help in the BSSC examination.
  
  The Munna gang was also found involved in Army recruitment scam in which two Army personnel have been named accused. Police have procured arrest warrant against the duo, but the Danapur Cantonment authorities refused to hand over the two to the police.
