BAREILLY: In a telling reminder that the alliance between the   and the Congress has hit hurdles in the form of ruffled feathers and rebels at the local level across Uttar Pradesh, SP state president Naresh Uttam admitted that there was “confusion and discord” between the allies over some seats. However, he added that all the differences over the seat-sharing arrangement would be ironed out after   and   share the stage at the  .
 
  Candidates of both allies are, at the moment, pitted against each other in at least eight constituencies across the state, including Koil in Aligarh, Baldev in Mathura and Bareilly Cantt seat.
  
  “Modalities of the alliance have already been finalized. There is confusion over some seats, where our cadre believe they have a strong candidate and are not ready to concede. We will placate our ally by conceding a seat somewhere else if we chose to retain the alliance seat that has gone to the Congress,” Uttam told TOI.
  
  "The mist of confusion around the alliance will be clear once both Akhilesh and Rahul share the stage in Lucknow on Sunday. We will then go for campaigning with all guns blazing,” the SP leader added.
  
  Meanwhile, on ground zero, the discord has aggravated as candidates of both parties are not ready to relent though the last day for withdrawal of nomination for the second phase of polls ended on Friday. In Koil, Congress candidate Vivek Bansal is not ready to withdraw his candidature as the Congress high command approved it on Saturday. Now, he seems all set to take on SP’s Ajju Ishaq. In Baldev, Congress’s Vinesh Sonwal is pitted against SP’s Ranveer Dhangar.
  
  With regard to the Baldev seat, Mathura district president of SP Tanveer Ahmad claimed that Congress candidate Sonwal had agreed to withdraw his nomination but somehow he could not reach the collectorate on time to complete the formalities. Ahmad added that the issue would be resolved.
  
  A similar tussle is being witnessed over the Bareilly Cantt seat, where mayor I S Tomar from the SP and Nawab Mujahid Hasan from Congress are locked in a contest. Both candidates have refused to withdraw, with their respective local cadre rallying behind them. Tomar reiterated his resolve to contest, addressing a district working committee meeting at the SP office here, with Congress leaders also present.
  
  Tomar’s candidature was withdrawn late on Saturday evening, while the Congress candidate is still in the fray, according to the alliance leaders.
  
  (With inputs from Anuja Jaiswal in Agra)
