DARJEELINGarjeeling: The   ( ) has filed a writ petition in the Calcutta high court against the Bengal government and the state election commission demanding to know why elections to the four hills municipalities have not been held even though their term ended in December 2016.

 The term of the Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Kurseong and Mirik municipalities ended on different dates in December but the state government is yet to announce fresh elections. The municipalities are presently being run by administrators appointed by the state.
 
 The GTA moved the high court last week, and the next hearing is on March 15. Its contention is that the election process should have started at least six months before the municipalities’ terms expired. It further contended that neither the state government nor the state election commission had provided any reasons.
 
 “We had written to the additional chief secretary, home affairs and the state election commission to know why election to the four municipalities was not held on time. But we have not got any response yet,” said P T Ola, member in-charge of GTA municipal affairs development department, on Thursday.
 
 This is not the first time the   (GJM)-run council body has knocked on the high court’s doors. The GTA and the GJM had moved the HC and also   against the state government on two previous occasion relating to functioning of the council, non-transfer of subjects, not implementing a three-tier panchayat system, and formation of development boards, among other reasons.
 
 “They (state) had started the process and even prepared rosters but they failed to provide reasons why the election was not being held on time. Also, it must be remembered that municipality is a transferred subject and the GTA has the right to know,” Ola said. 
 
 GJM general secretary   alleged the state was deliberately keeping municipality polls on hold. “There is more to it than meets the eye,” he said.
 
 The GTA’s term will expire in August while panchayat election has not been held since 2000. GJM embarked on its poll campaign on Thursday. 
 
