MUMBAI: The CBI has filed a chargesheet against activist  , her husband Javed Anand and their publishing company for alleged violation of foreign funding regulations. The charge sheet was filed on Saturday in a court in Mumbai, CBI spokesperson R KGaur said on Tuesday. 

  Communications and Publishing Pvt Ltd (SCPPL) and its two directors, Setalvad and Anand, have been accused of receiving foreign contributions without mandatory registration or prior permission under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act ( ), 2010. The CBI said the court had taken cognisance of the offences and directed the accused to remain present on February 3. 
 
 Sushma Raman, a former programme officer of Ford Foundation, the “donor” in this case, has also been named as an accused. In a statement that has been made a part of the chargesheet, CBI said a key witness from   had told the agency that an amount of $2,90,000 was given to the company as a grant. This, the investigating agency said, refuted the couple’s claims that the amount was not a donation, but payment for consultancy services and, therefore, did not come under FCRA rules. Setalvad could not be contacted despite several attempts. 
 
 The CBI registered the case on July 8, 2015, following a complaint from the Gujarat government. The chargesheet was filed after the necessary sanctions from the MHA. It said that as columnists, Setalvad and Anand, the directors of Sabrang, were not eligible to accept foreign contributions in accordance with the FCRA. FCRA debars the use of foreign funds for publishing and media ventures, and diverting of funds from the stated purpose of charitable, scientific literacy or education. 
 
 CBI also charged that Sabrang and its representatives were not authorised to receive foreign contribution without prior permission of the MHA. “The company also did not maintain an exclusive bank account for receipt of foreign contributions,” the CBI added.
 
 Setalvad has been at the forefront of a campaign for the 2002 Gujarat riot victims. 
 
