LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath made a grand entry into his 5   on the auspicisous first day of Navaratra. It was followed by a phalhar party in the evening -- probably the first in the past 15 years -- for those observing the  . 

 There was a separate section serving fruits and offerings like  ,  , sabudaane ki kheer, etc, while for others, there were delicacies like kofte, shahi paneer, mixed vegetables, arhar ki daal and rice. For dessert, there were gulab jamun and rasmalai, an MLA told TOI. 
 
 The CM had chosen to stay at VVIP Guest House since March 19, the day he was sworn in, waiting for the ‘grih pravesh’ at 5 KD Marg during the auspicious nine-day festival. At 12.10pm on Wednesday, Yogi entered the residence and took a stroll inside the premises, directing officials accompanying him to make suitable changes. Though the changes were minor like shifting the furniture from one side to another, the CM saw through the arrangement, an official in CMO told TOI. 
 
 After 30 minutes, he was accompanied by  , Domariyaganj MLA and UP in charge of Yogi’s Hindu Yuva Vahini, a social organisation he had formed while he was Gorakhpur MP in late 1990s. Since he had not eaten anything since morning, he was served fruits at the dining hall, a party worker close to the CM told TOI. 
 
 At 3pm, Yoga guru Swami Ramdev reached the CM residence, from where both Ramdev and the chief minister went to attend Yoga Mahotsav 2017. 
 
 By 6pm, around 150 of UP BJP’s election war room workers began reaching 5 KD Marg, led by state organisation secretary and Amit Shah’s man Friday Sunil Bansal. Many of them, including UP BJP chief and deputy CMs Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma and Sunil Bansal were honoured by the CM with a shawl, wrist watch or mobile phone for their hard work during UP elections, one of the war room boys told TOI. The mobile phones were only for the BJP office-bearers as the workers had already got it about three days back, another team member said.
 
 The CM asked the party workers to take the BJP’s manifesto to ground level and ensure that work is done as per the manifesto. He said each party worker should treat himself as the chief minister and narrated the incident of how he was offered the CM chair.
 
 After about an hour, 325 BJP MLAs, too, reached the CM’s residence. A huge strength of around 500 BJP workers and MLAs led to a rush to get a selfie with the CM, but he kept amiling patiently throuhgout. 
 
 In between, he played host and kept asking everyone to enjoy the feast, said an insider.
 
