GURUGRAM: The   has ordered an inquiry against the district town planner (enforcement), who also holds charge as public information officer (PIO) at  , for his failure to respond to an   application within the stipulated time.

 In its July 6 order, the commission asked DTCP director   to investigate the matter of dereliction of duty by the PIO concerned and take appropriate action.
 
 The commission passed the order after RTI applicant Harinder Dhingra lodged a complaint with the first appellate authority — first in March and then in April — alleging unprecedented delay in responding to his app-lication. He had filed the application in December 2016, seeking information about action taken against a builder who had constructed a commercial complex near Sikandarpur Metro station, allegedly by violating building norms. 
 
 “I had written to the CM window in March 2016 against the builder. Subsequent probe by DTCP officials had revealed several violations by the developer and had suggested that the building should be sealed. Copies of the order were shared with me as well as with the chief minister’s office,” claimed Dhingra.
 
 However, the department did not take any action against the builder. 
 
 Dhingra then filed an RTI plea. When he did not get a response, he approached the first appellate authority. “Once the department itself reported the violations, the delay in action is surprising. And the silence on the action taken in the case raises serious questions about the intent of the department officials,” said Dhingra.
 
 In its order, the information commission observed that in response to the RTI application (dated 7/12/2016), no information had been shared by the PIO. It also found that the case file was not traceable. “The commission is of the view that the delay has occurred due to dereliction of duty on part of the respondent, and an investigation needs to be carried out in the matter and appropriate action needs to be taken in the regard,” reads the order.
 
 When contacted, Satyaprakash said, “We will investigate the matter and do the needful.”
 
 
