NAGPUR: The students pursuing studies from Nagpur University’s departments and conducted colleges have a reason to cheer. The administration would be starting a ‘feedback service’ for them, where they can list their grievances and demands, and even review the performance of their teachers. The facility would be shortly offered on its website — nagpuruniversity.org.

 “It was planned long back, but couldn’t be materialized due to other commitments. Now, the format is almost ready and it would be started by next week. We recently conducted its demo session. Currently, it would be made optional to the students. But we plan to make it mandatory for all from next academic year, depending on its response,” an elated vice chancellor   told TOI.
 
 The facility, however, would be available to only 3,500 students of NU’s 40 departments and three conducted colleges. NU has about 602 affiliated colleges having enrolment of over four lakh students. 
 
 “I personally feel that ‘feedback for’ should be made compulsory for all the students, which would not only keep a tab on the lecturers, but also help the administration in finding its loopholes and plugging them,” the VC said.
 
 The university has prepared a special software for its new venture which would have treble security check, so that no one would be able to misuse it or play mischief. On clicking the link, the students need to first submit their enrolment number. Later, they would be asked for mobile number on which one-time password ( ) would be sent. Only after submitting that password, the four-page form would be opened.
 
 “They would need to fill up all pages pertaining to facilities offered by NU, curriculum offered, teachers performance and facilities provided to them,”   said.
 
 NU would be setting July 31 as deadline for filling up ‘feedback’ forms for all existing students. “They would be writing about their previous experience. It was actually suggested by the   team, which is one of the most important aspect of their rankings.”
 
 This is latest one among the slew of initiatives planned by the VC and pro-VC when he took over NU’s reins. Now, in midst of their tenure, the duo introduced facilities like ‘answersheet scanning’, ‘on-screen evaluation’ and direct delivery of the question papers to the examination centres. They also tighten the norms for awarding PhD and importantly introduced per paper charging of exam fees for failure students.
 
