NEW DELHI: Hundreds of people gathered spontaneously at the John F   in New York and other airports around the country late on Saturday to protest US President Donald 
  , international media is reporting.
 
 Protests began at Terminal 4 of the New York airport after immigration authorities there detained as many as 11 refugees who were likely already in transit when Trump ordered a four-month hold on allowing refugees into the country, CBS News and Al Jazeera are reporting. 
 
 
  
  
 Even as the protests were underway, a Federal judge put on hold Trump's order to send people with valid visas out of the US.
 
  
  
 
 As per latest reports, the number of protesters at JFK's Terminal 4 - the arrivals gate - is growing by the minute. It is also being reported that not just at JFK, protesters are also gathered at Dulles airport in Washington DC.
 
 In Sanf Francisco, Sergey Brin, Google co-founder and president of Alphabet, also joined protesters at the International Airport there, Verge reported. Brin told Verge he was attending “in a personal capacity” and would not be giving comment. However, Forbes’s Ryan Mac heard Brin elaborate. “I’m here because I’m a refugee,” he reportedly said.
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 "We Are All Immigrants," , "Let Them In," "Refugees Welcome," "Disobey" and "Resist" were on placards being carried by the protestors. 
 
 "Today, we saw in real human terms the damage and the absurdity of Trump's policies. The president's executive order is mean-spirited, ill-conceived and ill-advised," said Congresswoman   and Congressman Jerrold Nadler in a joint statement, the Observer reported.
 
  "The showdown at JFK marks the first direct confrontation of Trump's infant administration, and the first attempt at obstructing the new commander-in-chief's implementation of his most controversial campaign promises via fiat." the Observer report said.
 
  
  
 
 
 Hameed Khalid Darweesh, a former translator for the U.S. military in Iraq, was held for hours before being released, CBS News said.
 
 "They treat me as though I break the rules or did something wrong, I was surprised," Darweesh said.
 
 This is the "damage in human terms" that the Congresspersons were talking about.
 
 "The order almost banned a man from entering the country who has worked for the United States government for 10 years, who risked his life to help us and to help our troops, and who loves our country."
 
 New York governor   said he was pledging executive resources to aiding the detainees, the Observer reported. He alluded to the inscription on the Statue of Liberty.
 
 
  
 
 
 "I never thought I'd see the day when refugees, who have fled war-torn countries in search of a better life, would be turned away at our doorstep. We are a nation of bridges, not walls, and a great many of us still believe in the words 'give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses," he said in a statement. "This is not who we are, and not who we should be."
 
 In the meanwhile, a still rattled Darweesh said: "America is the greatest nation, the greatest people in the world."
 
 
 
