Actor  , a known face in Bollywood and seen in the much talked about serial P .O.W.Bandi Yuddh Ke, was in Lucknow recently for a private event.
 
  Rasika, who also shot for a short film a couple of months ago in the city, says she knows the city in and out. “I have lived in Lucknow for six months, this was right before I became an actress in the year 2004. Being a research assistant for a company , I had come to Lucknow for some academic research project and used to live alone near IT college,“ shares Rasika, adding, “There is def initely a vibe about the city which is old school. I like Hazrat ganj a lot. I like the old school charm of Lucknow. At that time it was not restored as it is now. In fact, I used to like that kind of look more of Hazratganj than what it is now.
  
  I used to love eating at Dastarkhwan. Uss time pe Pari vartan Chowk naya-naya aaya tha, so I used to love travelling on a Vikram auto from there."
  
  
 
  
  In fact, Rasika even made friends with a few babus in Lucknow during her stay . “I was in charge of getting the secondary research data from all government offices. So I made a lot of friends in government offices. The PWD had become my regular hangout. That also reminds me of an incident. I had studied at LSR, Delhi. So at that time, we all used to wear kurtas without a dupatta. But when I visited the PWD department here, I could hear men discussing about my forgetting the dupatta at home. It used to be a big thing for a women in Lucknow to not wear a dupatta those days, though a lot has changed since then.“
  
  But the actor's stay in Lucknow at that time was marred by bad experiences.“While in Lucknow, I used to miss roaming about till late in the night as I used to in Mumbai. Lucknow mein uss time pe, for a girl, akele ghoomna was really difficult. I found it really hard to live in Lucknow at that time,“ shares Rasika, adding, “I felt unsafe in Lucknow on several occasions.There used to be people commenting when I would walk on the road. There would be guys chasing me in their cars and passing rude comments like `Ganj chalegi kya?', which was horrible. I remember, once I was going on a cycle rickshaw and a guy , driving a two-wheeler, came near me and hit me hard on my chest. I was shocked and so scared! I didn't enjoy that aspect of the city at all.“
  
  But later, Rasika again visited the city as part of the cast of the controversial play Vagina Monologue. “I remember there was a huge controversy in Lucknow, regarding staging of that play after the then state government had banned it. And then the subsequent chief minister had given permission for it to be staged. It was fun staging that play in Lucknow, though.The play was a part of a theatre festival and its organiser Bhoopesh Rai, had worked really hard to get the play here,“ recalls Rasika. Commenting on the content of the play Rasika says, “I don't think the subject of our play is bold. It has become bold because we have shied away from talking about it for so long. It is talking about the day to day life of a woman and things which are very very regular and not bold at all. Whether Mumbai or Lucknow, nowhere do we have this culture of talking about sexual experiences, especially of women.“
  
  Busy with acting assignments, Rasika who has also acted in an Indo-German short film, is playing the lead in for Nandita Das' movie on shayar Manto. “I am very excited about playing the role of Sadat Hassan Manto's wife in Nandita Das' biopic on the writer. I am reading a lot of Manto, I have spoken to his family and I am also reading other progressive writers of that time. Nandita had watched my film Qissa and she felt that I have a lot of resemblance to the character of Safiyah.And when I spoke to Manto's daughter she also felt that I resembled her mother a lot,“ says Rasika, with a laugh.
  
  Going by Rasika's professional choices, which has been quite hat ke from the commercial league, we wonder if she is open to doing commercial movies in Bollywood. “I haven't made out and out commercial choices because they haven't come to me. I haven't had good offers for commercial movies; the roles offered to me were very insignificant and so I turned them down. I haven't got a good meaty role for a commercial Bollywood movie. While not all commercial movies are great, even a lot of independent films are trashy . So there is good and bad in both the genres. I get so many offers for independent movies with a message to which I say no to. An independent movie doesn't mean the content is good and a commercial movie doesn't mean the content is bad,“ she says as she signs off.
