NEW DELHI: Steadily falling prices have ensured a winter of affordable vegetables for Delhiites. However, for farmers and labourers involved in bringing the produce from the fields to your nearby shop, demonetisation continues to pose a deep crisis.

 Retail prices continue to fluctuate across Delhi and often don’t reflect the reality of mandis. Sample this: Cauliflower is available in the retail market, including via online   shopping apps like Grofers and Big Basket, for Rs 18-30. On Friday, it sold in the   mandi for Rs 1-3 per kg, depending upon its quality. Cabbage, which cost about Rs 14 to 40 per kg, sold for Rs 1-2 per kg in the mandi. Peas, available abundantly across Delhi, sold for Rs 19-32 in the retail market as opposed to its wholesale   of Rs 509 per kg.
 
 Consumers also found a slight difference in prices between local vegetable vendors and shopping apps with the latter often offering produce at a few rupees cheaper. The biggest variation among vegetables checked by TOI was in the price of cabbage and beans. Cabbage, available for roughly Rs 14 per kg on both Grofers and Big Basket, was selling for Rs 20-40 across Delhi. Similarly, beans, selling for Rs 29-30 on the apps, cost about Rs 60-80 in the local markets.
 
 Vendors said that prices had been falling steadily since November in the aftermath of demonetisation, as most of their trading took place in cash. “Vegetable prices usually fall winter, but the decline this time is quite steep. The situation has improved slightly but we continue to sell to old customers on credit. Unlike those selling on apps, we are buying small quantities and need to finish our stock each day. We don’t have the luxury of cold storage. Despite that, vegetables in the retail market are priced much below what they should have been,” said  , a vendor in east Delhi.
 
 Metharam Kripalani, president of the Chamber of Azadpur Fruit and Vegetable Traders, said many traders in the mandi had still not started paying small farmers in cash. “We have asked labourers to open up bank accounts and are trying to give them some part of their salaries in cash. For big farmers, we have started remitting money through bank but there is still a crisis with small, local farmers who expect their entire payment in cash. Supply and demand are both almost normal, especially since prices have fallen so much,” he said.
 
 
