PANAJI: Despite taboos surrounding menstruation, four housewives from a self-help group in Pilgao, Bicholim have embarked upon a project of manufacturing   sanitary napkins.

 These are essentially made from pinewood fibre and non-woven cloth using the cost effective method and machinery developed by Arunachalam Muruganantham, the high school dropout credited for the sanitary pad revolution in the country.
 
 Dr  , a public health practitioner took the idea to representatives of around 40 self-help groups in Bicholim a couple of years ago but only Jayshree Parwar jumped at the idea and roped in Sulaksha Tari, Naseem Shaikh and Revati Parwar, all from the selfhelp group Saheli in Pilgao.
 
 Eco-friendly is the way to go, she believes. “Others were ashamed to be associated with making sanitary napkins, but somewhere we have to take care of nature,” she says, adding that the product has no chemicals or plastic added and disintegrates when buried in the soil.
 
 Nayak procured machinery from Coimbatore, funds for which were contributed by a company through corporate social responsibility.
 
 The women set up the small scale unit in a room near Parwar’s home and have sold around 2,000 sanitary napkins under the banner ‘Sakhi’ since they began two years ago.
 
 The entire process of making a single sanitary napkin takes around five minutes and involves the grinding of pinewood fibre, putting it into moulds, pressing it, wrapping it in non-woven cloth, sticking butter paper on one side and sterilizing it. The product is competitively priced and eight sanitary napkins are packed together and sold for Rs 40.
 
 Allergist and clinical immunologist Dr   says the problem with synthetic napkins is that there are allergic reactions to them. “Cloth of course is much cheaper, but unless washed and maintained well, can also cause rashes as it may not absorb the flow easily. The best overall are menstrual cups, but they are not very popular. These napkins are made of pine fibre and this makes them very comfortable to use. Besides, they’re cost effective and can be used by more people,” she told STOI.
 
 According to Parwar, their biodegradable sanitary napkins can be buried in the soil or flushed after tearing out the cloth.
 
 A large quantity of synthetic sanitary napkins disposed of every month are proving to be a major challenge in garbage disposal. “They cannot be burnt because of their plastic content and it would be too unhygienic and unfeasible for anyone to separate the various layers while disposing them. Biodegradable sanitary napkins would help solve many problems,” Dominic Fernandes, officer on special duty for solid waste management, department of science and technology, said.
 
 Minister for urban development Francis D’Souza says many eco-friendly projects don’t survive because they are too highly priced. “If the sanitary napkins are biodegradable and cost effective, the government will definitely support the project,” he said.
 
 The biodegradable sanitary napkins are currently available at Pilgao, Bicholim, and Calangute, Bardez.
 
