Patna: The breach in the Ganga pump canal at Bateshwarsthan (Kahalgaon) in Bhagalpur district during its trial run on Tuesday caused much embarrassment to the Nitish Kumar government as the CM was to inaugurate the Rs379.31-crore scheme on Wednesday. The opposition RJD alleged corruption in executing the project and poor quality of construction. 

 “What kind of canal was it that it was washed away with the flow of water? Nitish government blamed the rats for breach in river embankments causing recent floods. What will they say now, that gharials (crocodiles) broke the canal using their snout?” said RJD chief Lalu Prasad while taking a dig at his bête noire Nitish.
 
 The scheme is for irrigation of 27,603 hectares of land, out of which 22,816 is in Bihar and 4887 hectares in Jharkhand.
 
 While the state government blamed the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) for constructing a “faulty” underpass beneath the canal at Bateshwarsthan and that weakened the canal structure, the power generation unit said that was part of the project and constructed after the state water resources department had approved it.
 
 “Work on the Ganga canal project started in 1977 and construction of the canal was taken up in 1985. The canal was to be inaugurated roughly after 30 years and our fault was that we did not check its structure earlier. The canal got weakened due to the underpass constructed by NTPC. Enquiry is being conducted and action will be taken against those found accountable for it,” state WRD minister Rajiv Ranjan Singh said. 
 
 NTPC officials, however, ruled out their accountability in the canal breach. “The underpass was constructed long ago and only upon clearance from the state WRD as it was a part of their project. Rather than blaming it on us, they should have conducted thorough inspection of the entire stretch of the canal to check its feasibility prior to conducting the trial run or inaugurating it,” a senior NTPC official said. 
 
 Senior WRD officials at Bhagalpur said the breach over a stretch of 15 feet in the 11km-long canal happened around 5.30pm, when water was released into it as a trial run on the eve of the inaugural function. 
 
 WRD principal secretary Arun Kumar Singh said the damaged stretch had been sealed. “Only a part of the canal was breached due to construction of an underpass by NTPC. The underpass was a box type structure, which was technically not sound. Nonetheless, the damages in the canal will be restored in two months,” Arun said. 
 
 
