Visakhapatnam: The   in association with the Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan ( ) has planned to extend their   training programme for students of classes IX and X of all government schools from this academic year, following the recent suicide by a ‘harassed’ Class IX girl in Vijayawada.

 The training programme will impart basic self-defence techniques through martial arts such as karate. This will also help them identify potentially dangerous situations. In all, 3,88,909 girl students in 5,725 schools spread across the state will be trained under this initiative.
 
 The programme is expected to help prevent drop outs of girl students in rural pockets as parents often restrain their daughters from attending schools fearing their security. Aware of the fact that these girls are trained in martial arts, eve teasers and miscreants will stay away from them. The physical education teacher at each school will also be made aware of these skills for the future practice of them as a part of school curriculum.
 
 RMSA assistant director   said that the programme is scheduled for three months starting from August 1 and will cover 30 classes with each class having a duration of 90 minutes. “Girl students from about 5,700 schools across the state, including model schools, municipal schools, social welfare department schools and so on will be covered under the initiative,” he added.
 
 As part of the programme, the girls will be familiarised with the historical background of karate, vulnerable areas of the body, conditioning and flexibility exercises and different types of stances, punches, kicks and blocking techniques during the first month. In the ensuing two months, the girls will be imparted with complete basic karate, self-defence tactics, advanced exercises of ippon-kumite (one-step sparing techniques), samban-kumite (three-step sparing techniques), kyokushin-kumite (pre-planned fighting), no-contact fighting, ju-kumite (full-contact fighting with guards), Shiahi-kumite (contest-sparing techniques), and so on.
 
 
