NEW DELHI: BJP’s Latur MP   seems to have become collateral damage in the battle between Shiv Sena MP   and  .

 The MP says he was stopped, viewed with suspicion and deprived of business class seats, which a parliamentarian is entitled to, during his last two AI flights.
 
 Sena’s Osmanabad MP Ravindra Gaikwad was booked for assaulting an AI staffer after being denied a business class seat — the flight did not have a business class — last Thursday.
 
 He boasted on television that he had hit the 60-year-old manager R Sukumar “25 times” with his sandal. In an unprecedented move, the national carrier and six other private airlines then banned Ravindra Gaikwad.
 
 Sunil Gaikwad regretted he has been made to pay the price, prompting him to bring the matter to the notice of minister of state for civil aviation, Jayant Sinha, who it is believed is equally peeved at the ill-treatment meted out to his party MP. Sinha could not be reached.
 
 “I was made to feel as if being a Gaikwad is a crime. I was disturbed by the behaviour of the private security and the CISF personnel at the airport security gate,” Sunil Gaikwad told TOI.
 
 He claimed there was little space for confusion as only two parliamentarians share the Gaikwad surname.
 
 “On Friday, I had a late evening flight to Hyderabad and I was shocked to see the attitude of the security personnel towards me. They stopped me at the entrance and allowed entry half an hour later after verification,” he said. Hyderabad is the nearest functional airport to Latur.
 
 He said after boarding the plane, he was allotted a back row seat.
 
 “I was dismayed to see a few private security personnel around me after I boarded,” the   MP said. He alleged that he met with the same fate while returning last Monday by an early morning AI flight from Hyderabad to New Delhi.
 
 Gaikwad shared his experience with his Lok Sabha colleagues in personal conversations after which he approached the minister.
 
 He said he hadn’t informed the Speaker though House proceedings are on.
 
 Meanwhile, relief for Ravindra Gaikwad remains elusive even as his party has been lobbying against the airlines banning him.
 
 “Airline companies behave like mafia goons. Jaanch puri ho tab pata chalega kisne kya kiya (The truth will come only after investigation),” Sena MP Sanjay Raut said on Thursday. Gaikwad recently travelled by road to Delhi for the ongoing Parliament session.
 
