Panaji:  , Goa’s hero in the   semifinals, has been coping with examinations pretty well. Both on and off the pitch.
 
  The 18-year-old from Davorlim, a student at   HSS, Navelim, finished with his 12th standard board exams on Saturday smack during the tournament in which he played two matches, even scored against Meghalaya in the opener.
  
  Liston took part in few practice sessions due to his academic commitments but on Thursday in the semifinals against Kerala, Liston passed out in flying colours in the Goa shirt. The teen striker struck form in the nick of time to score a brace and bring a lot of cheer to Goa’s campaign, sending the hosts into the final where they take on 31-time champions and arch-rivals Bengal on Sunday.
  
  The lad’s sparkling display has given Goa hope of clinching their sixth title, and that in front of home fans. In a final that promises all the trappings of an epic, Liston could make the difference once again.
  
  “I had not scored in the last three games but there was no pressure on me whatsoever. I had not seen Kerala play at all but just went there on the pitch and gave my best,” said Liston on Friday, enjoying a day’s break that coach   had given the players for recovery.
  
  The Santosh Trophy is considered a gateway to the national side. Liston has definitely made giant strides to this end and hopes to get a national call-up soon.
  
  Goa and Bengal have already met in the league stage where neither teams could score. Liston, however, is determined to write a different script in the final by breaking through the Bengal defence which has not conceded a goal in 480 minutes of open play.
  
  “Bengal is a very good team. I had few chances that day and I hope to score against them in the final,” said Liston, who finished top scorer with Salgaocar FC in the Goa Pro League this season.
  
  Liston has scored three goals so far. Churchill Brothers, Goa’s lone I-League club, may not have spotted him but Goa’s Santosh Trophy campaign has benefited hugely from his profuse talent.
  
  The title beckons and with it a great way for Liston to tell Goan football he’s arrived. In style.
