It was early 1900. A deadly plague wrought havoc in the city of the Nizams. It almost wiped out half of the population of Hyderabad. Wails of grief wrung the air every now and then. There was no sign of liberation from the cruel bereavement, despair and demise. Rev. Fr Pagani, the then parish priest of St. Joseph’s Cathedral could no longer tolerate the miserable sight. Pleading for God’s mercy and liberation of the city from the deadly scourge, he made a vow that if his prayers are answered, The  , a dramatic presentation of the Passion of Jesus Christ depicting his trial, suffering and death will be staged in the city every  . 
“Fr Pagani’s prayers were answered, the plague ended, so did the sufferings of the people. Now it was Fr Pagani's turn to keep his vow,” says Fr Mathew TM, the current parish priest narrating the story behind the staging of the first Passion Play in Hyderabad a few years later. Tamil poet, Thomas penned down the script in Tamil and some mellifluous songs to weave in. Music being the soul of the Passion Play, Catholic musicians were hired for the purpose. The costumes and the backdrops were designed by Mark Anthony, a parishioner. Apparently, the Bishop of Hyderabad, Vismarah used to cycle all the way from Secundrabad to check on the play’s progress daily.
 Finally in 1910, the Passion Play was staged for the first time in the city in  . “Directed by Thomas under the supervision of Fr. Pagani, the play moved the audience to tears with its soulful songs. Photographs of the play were sent to the Holy Father in Rome, who, as a token of appreciation gifted a life size statue of crucified Christ which lies in the prayer room of the church and is brought out during the Passion Play every Good Friday,” says  , a parishioner whose artistry is visible in the church interiors and the prayer room.
 In early 1980s, Rev Fr A Saachi, proposed to adopt a language that was understood by the mass, for there were hundreds of non-Tamilians who would flock to see the play. Hindi seemed to suit the purpose. So he penned down the script in English and got it translated in Hindi. Since then the play is being enacted in Hindi, except some important songs that are sung in Tamil, so as not to lose the essence in translation.
 “Every year the rehearsals begin at the start of Lent. The play is divided into 14 parts. But like usual Passion Plays, we do not start the play from the trial. We start with the miracles of 
 Jesus that make more impact on the audience and sends his message of love and sacrifice more strongly. Every year hundreds come down to our passion playground to witness the play,” says Selvaraj, adding, “After the staging, we take out a procession with the wooden sculpture of the Christ around the  .”
 Today, on Good Friday, if you want to witness the oldest Passion Play of the city, head to the Our Lady of Lourdes Church of Band Line Colony where the parishioners will stage the historic Passion Play for the 108th time in a row.
 
