KOLKATA: While it still has miles to go to be counted among the best, entrepreneurial confidence is steadily rising in  , with a recent study putting the state in the “aspiring” category. 

 Overall, Bengal finished ninth on the entrepreneurial readiness index ahead of states like   and Haryana, but behind Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Punjab and Chattisgarh. 
 
 The study was carried out by the   Development Institute of India (EDII), an institute set up by four apex financial institutions — IDBI Bank, IFCI, ICICI and State Bank of India — under the guidance of the finance and MSME ministries. The aim is to improve entrepreneurship climate of the country and incubate entrepreneurs wherever necessary.
 
 While “aspiring” Bengal has the potential to develop into a “leader” with a little impetus, its ranking slips three notches when it comes to the predictive future analysis. That is because Bengal needs to still improve on parameters like enabling environment, growth-oriented economy and forward-looking governance, feel EDII faculty and researchers.
 
 Bengal’s ranking is of special interest to the EDII faculty because the state, according to the study, has the highest number of unemployed adults (age 18-59). With over 11 lakh unemployed and 36.5 lakh marginally employed, the state presents a curious socio-economic scenario that can best be tackled through aggressive employment generation via startups.
 
 “Startups and the culture of entrepreneurship grooming is relatively new in our country. Thanks to the centre’s year-old initiative — Start Up India – Stand Up India — entrepreneurship is now being taken seriously and studies are being conducted to quantify progress. We are improvising upon this first study and should be able to come out with another version by September,” said chairperson of postgraduate programmes at EDII, Manoj Mishra. 
 
 “Entrepreneurship data with the government clearly indicates that Bengal has come up at least four notches. Thanks to the government impetus, today even premier campuses like   and IIM Calcutta have entrepreneurship incubation cells,” Mishra added.
 
 At least 15 startup stories from Bengal have made it to the list of case studies to be taught in EDII’s post-graduate programmes. Among them are success stories like Surgerica, Wow Momo, Sweethandi.com, Outbox, Buy Hatke and MindHour. 
 
 “From traditional handicrafts to IT and consumer items, Bengal startups are extremely innovative and we need to document their stories. Perhaps Bengal needs some startups in manufacturing as well,” Mishra said. 
 
 Surgerica, founded by Amit Bhagat, for example aims to bring transparency in healthcare. The company has raised $200,000 in funding and lets you collect information, compare and choose from among a host of healthcare facilities and medical practitioners. 
 
 Again, BuyHatke is an online price comparison engine started by Gaurav Dahake, Prashant Singh and Srikanth Sethumadhavan when they were final-year students at IIT Kharagpur. The company has raised $ 1 million in seed funding. 
 
 Wow Momos, started by St Xavier’s College grads Sagar Daryani and   in 2008, now commands a valuation of Rs 100 crore. Indian Angel Network, one of the largest angel networks in the country led by Sanjeev Bhikchandani, the founder of Naukri.com, has picked up 10% stake in the chain that has already spread to Delhi and Bangalore. “We have plans to have at least 100 outlets in Kolkata alone,” Sagar says, happy that EDII has picked his brand up as a case study.
 
 At both IIT Kharagpur and IIM Calcutta, there is a steady rise in the number of graduates opting for entrepreneurship over placements. In 2016, 13 IIT Kgp students opted to be entrepreneurs while the number was a around 20 at IIM Calcutta. Both institutions have innovation parks and incubators to aid startups.
 
 “We have been partnering with the state government to help launch startups of not only our students but also outsiders in our innovation park,” said Saibal Chattopadhyay, director of IIM Calcutta.
 
 
