LUCKNOW:   chief   faced a revolt-like situation on Friday with a group of disenchanted BSP officials gearing up to float an alternative political forum on the eve of   on April 14.

 Former party MLC and minister in the previous Mayawati government Kamla Kant Gautam and Mayawati’s ex-officer on special duty Gangaram Ambedkar gave a call for a state-level convention in Lucknow on April 13. They said a new group called ‘Mission Surakha Parishad’ would be floated that day. Both Gautam and Ambedkar had quit BSP after its humiliating defeat in the assembly elections.
 
 “We’ve called all BSP supporters who want to work for the Bahujan mission conceptualised by party founder  . A new forum would get created on Baba Saheb Jayanti,” Ambedkar told TOI.
 
 He said the BSP leadership (read Mayawati) had appeared unmoved by the sagging morale of party cadre following repeated drubbing in state and parliamentary pols. “We lost power in 2012, drew a zero in 2014   elections, and now are left with just 19 seats in the assembly.
 
 All this shows the rapidly shrinking vote-base of the party that Kanshi Ramji built,” said Ambedkar. The aim of the new group, he said, would be to build a new cadre of Dalits, most backward classes (MBCs) and other downtrodden sections of society.
 
 Sources said that the decision to float an alternative forum was taken at a meeting attended by disenchanted BSP cadre, including a few district level functionaries, on March 26.
 
 The development comes soon after protests in Ghaziabad, Meerut, Moradabad and Etawah in which party workers allegedly burnt effigies of BSP general secretary Naseemuddin Siddiqui and other senior functionaries, accusing them of ignoring winnable candidates to sell party tickets to others, who lost.
 
 “What has further surprised many is the silence maintained by BSP chief Mayawati,” said a senior party official on condition of anonymity. Sources said a few days ago, two senior BSP officials met Mayawati and apprised her about the situation.
 
 “The party leadership is keeping a close watch. Behenji is meeting party leaders and would soon come out with a solution,” said her close associate in Delhi.
 
