CHENNAI: Even as the entire state is in the grip of a severe drought, a small bunch of   and surrounding   hold out some promise.

 On the World Water Day, the rest of Mailam, like most other parts of  , is bone dry without a drop of water for irrigation, but thanks to a comprehensive project undertaken for rejuvenation of agricultural wells in the region with technical and financial assistance from MSSRF ( ) and Wabag, a multinational company involved in waste water treatment, a few dozen farmers in five village panchayats in Mailam region are still involved in agricultural and horticultural operations.
 
 The  , a firm started by 937 farmers in the region, has scripted this success story and increased the area under cultivation for its members from 67 acres to 156.5 acres. It all started in May-June 2015 with the MSSRF roping in Wabag for an initiative to find a lasting solution to Mailam's water woes. Mailam is an attraction for pilgrims as people from all over northern Tamil Nadu throng the Murugan temple in the village. But agriculture used to be seasonal. Most fields were rain-fed and the field wells would go dry within days of retreat of the monsoon.
 
 It was a pleasant surprise for the villagers when the MSSRF-Wabag tie-up brought Rs 36 lakh funding for desilting, deepening and construction of retaining walls for some 30 wells in the region. “Initially, we planned to give Rs 1.2 lakh each to 30 farmers, but once the company was formed, its directors (farmers) suggested that the aid be limited to Rs 80,000 per well to spread it out to 45 beneficiaries. They also identified the beneficiaries,“ said P Nandeesh, a project coordinator of MSSRF. The result was amazing. D Srinivasan, a farmer in Chinnanirgunam village near Mailam, used to carry out agricultural operations, mostly groundnut cultivation, in 2 to 2.5 acres out of his total 5 acre holding. “After my well was rejuvenated, I did paddy cultivation in one acre and watermelon in four acres last year. While we kept paddy for our own consumption, we sold Rs 3.1lakh worth watermelons. I got a net profit of Rs 1.7 lakh. This year, despite a severe drought, my well has some water, but to be on the safer side, I cultivated groundnut and moth beans.Groundnut it yet to be har vested, but from moth beans, I have already earned Rs 1.5 lakh,“ said Srinivasan.
 
 R Periyathambi, secretary of the company, says he is confident of carrying out any cultivation now. “I get enough water to irrigate my entire 3.5 acres,“ he said.From black gram, paddy and moth beans, he earned roughly Rs 2 lakh last year. This year he could just about touch Rs 1 lakh only though.
 
 The company buys the produce from its members and sells it once price improves. “We have bought three acres of land for the company . Very soon, tractors and other equipment will be procured to lease them out to our members on subsidized rates. Our next step is to start a brand of our own and market the produce as products in Chennai city,“ said Periyathambi.
 
