Chennai: India is a land of food and festivals. Every occassion lands a different dish on the plate and despite the prevalence of dishes such as burgers, fries and pizza, the Indian tastebud still prefers the classic Indian cuisine, a study said.

 Local dishes like Biryani, Masala Dosa, Roti, Dal and Idli topped the list of preferred dishes, the study, conductwed by food delivery start-up Swiggy showed. The survey covered 9,000 restaurants and 5 lakh users across 8 cities. 
 
 Regional cuisines held sway in their geographies but saw stiff competition from other cusines. For example Delhi-NCR, apart from ordering chole bhature, loved to order masala dosa. Similarly, Chennai showed a healthy appetite for north Indian delicacies. Chicken biryani, masala dosa, roti, pav bhaji, idli, dal as among the top 5 dishes.
 
 Lifestyle writer Ashwin Rajagopalan attributes this to the conveniences available today. “5 years back, if we wanted an Indian dish, it would take an hour come. The main reason why we ordered a domino’s pizza was that it would come in 30 minutes. Today, players like Swiggy and Zomato have created a level playing ground,” he said.
 
 Biryani Capital Hyderabad lived upto its name by ordering the dish not just during lunch and dinner but at snack time, while other cities gravitated toward street food. 
 
 For Barottas, a parotta chain with 7 outlets in Chennai, it was about reviving the charm of the south indian culinary treat, parotta or barotta, made out of maida flour. “We wanted to revive the dish and change the notion that it is unhealthy because it is made out of maida. We offer barottas in wheat which are healthy. We do face competition from burgers and pizzas but native food will remain the food that one can order anytime,” said Sherry T George, digital marketing manager, Barottas.
 
 The study also found that Mumbai showed the highest level of loyalty. Customers ordered as much as 30 times in a month in Mumbai while top customers in Bengaluru ordered 6-7 times and Chennai, 3-4 times a month. The delivery company also saw over 75% orders coming in from the app across all cities. 
 
 ENDS
 
 
