BHOPAL: BJP firebrand and Union minister Uma Bharti has said that BJP will have to ‘play’ the role of Opposition in Uttar Pradesh so that the party does not misuse the historic mandate and power given by the voters. On Yogi Adityanath’s selection for the post of chief minister, she said that he is the most suitable candidate for the job. 

 “We have to be careful about the mandate given by the public in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand as the Opposition has been wiped out completely. We should realise that we will not misuse power and keep all such things in mind while being at the helm, which a strong opposition reminds a ruling party in the state, said Bharti while taking to reporters on Monday at her official residence.
 
 Defending Yogi’s right wing activist image, the former chief minister of MP said, “Yogi Adityanath is a balanced person. He has long experience in Parliament and has carried forward an ideology. I firmly believe that he will establish new dimensions of governance in Uttar Pradesh.”
 
 About his role as a ‘sanyasi’ (saffron-clad saint), Bharti said that one should not judge him (Yogi) by his robes. “He was the unanimous choice for CM’s post,” she said.
 
 “He has taken ‘sannyas’ by choice and it is his personal lifestyle when it comes to how he lives and what he wears. We have to see whether he is a good politician and whether he has the capacity to take everyone along. One cannot make out his image as a Hindutva hardliner as maximum number of shops at his ashram in Gorakhpur are owned by Muslims,” said the BJP minister.
 
 The ‘sadhvi’ who had arrived to pay tributes to  , a Lodhi-warrior-queen of the then Madhya Bharat region, also expressed anguish for being invited for campaigning in the state only in the areas dominated by a particular caste during elections. 
 
 Uma Bharti, who belongs to the Lodhi community, said, “I am a sannyasin and I represent all sections of the society. But during elections in  , I am asked to campaign in areas dominated by a particular caste. I will not allow this to happen again,” she said.
 
 Praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his three years of achievements, she said that it was Modi storm which swept Uttar Pradesh in the Assembly elections.
 
 “We have received 1.5 lakh votes more in my area compared to what I had received during the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. This confirms that people accepted his decisions and voted for him in a big way,” she said.
 
 On controversy over alleged tampering of EVMs in UP polls, Bharti said that Election Commission has settled this issue long back. It has demonstrated that EVMs cannot be tampered with and its view should be accepted, she added.
 
 Praising Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s leadership, she denied calling him ‘baccha chor’ (child lifter) when she was denied power in 2005.
 
 “I had said this about someone who is no more,” she said. “I wish he (Chouhan) breaks my record of winning 173 seats by winning more than 175 out of the 230 Assembly seats in the 2018 elections,” she said. 
 
 She also appreciated the   held by the chief minister to conserve the river and the environment. When asked whether she made a mistake by quitting as Madhya Pradesh CM in 2004, Bharti defended her decision saying she decided to resign because of ‘Tiranga Yatra’, a case related to the national flag, and she had no regrets.
 
 
