We first noticed Mumbai girl   on  , thanks to her #Kaarname video routine, where she talks of the dilemmas girls face on a daily basis, like 'to wax or not to wax', with a comic spin. She now also plays Komal Lakhan Singh Ahlawat or Badho on and & TV's   produced by Dipti Kalwani (Sunny Side Up) and Sushant Kumar and Teena swyyam (Humtum Telefilms) which is being appreciated by masses and classes.
 
  This could be a character that's as far removed from Rathore's real life persona as can be. And, as the 24-year-old says, she cried on the day of the look test when she realised what she had got herself into. "They only called me because they needed a fat girl. When it's TV or movies, I only get calls when it's a fat character. The makers loved my audition and then I was sold the show. I didn't know how typical it was till I came for the look test, and that's when I cried. I was terrified," says Rathore.
  
  The show could be seen as a 2017 version of Balika Badhu. Badho, a Haryanvi gaon ki ladki, is married off to the village hunk, played by Prince  , because her dead father and father-in-law were best friends. She then faces the wrath of the family, especially her bhabhi, mother-in-law and husband, because she is fat and hence, not-so-desirable. "I have looked down on this kind of TV for so long. But now, every day, I look down less. It's because TV has the kind of reach that it has."
  
  "You can touch the lives of people who you could never have dreamt too. So it's good that we can use a show like this to drive some important messages home," says Rathore as she readies for a shot, dressed up in a ghagra with a pallu over her head.
  
  
 
  
  The actress, a SoBo kid, spent her adult life living in Worli and studied at the posh Cathedral and John Connon School. "I was a big girl in school too, and I knew that I only had a sparkling personality to count on. The only problem was that the boys I liked, didn't like me back," she says wryly.
  
  
  But Rytasha, after doing a few plays, realised that acting was her thing and headed off to Singapore to study acting at the LASALLE College of Arts in 2013.
  
  When she came back, she got parts in productions such as The Hound of the Baskervilles and The Merchant of Venice. But, it was not until Badho that she faced the camera. "There was a lean time before I got Badho where I worked on my Insta videos, which really took off because I was so consistent. People message me every day on Instagram saying I inspire them," she says.
  
  "But it's Badho that's really taught me the art of facing a camera. Every little thing gets picked up on camera, so you have to be really good, and, I may be a big girl but I am f****** talented. I have decided that I want to be an actor, not a star. Look at me!"
  
  She may have decided to take on the challenge but her SoBo friends still exclaim every time they see her on TV. "They say 'everyone is so mean to you all the time'."
  Right now, Rathore is busy soaking in the admiration that comes with being on TV. "Someone just tapped on the window of my car the other day, saying 'Oh Badho!' And recently, at a party, a lady in her mid-thirties came up to me who said that since her family has started watching the show, they call her Badho lovingly, as she is also a big girl!" she says. Along with trying to change the way TV audiences perceive a hard-on-her-luck character like Badho, Rathore says that the trick lies in knowing what makes this character so formidable. On being asked with working with Sunny Side Up and Humtum Telefilms she says, "It's fantastic to work with them. The makers have made a good product and audiences are loving it. In fact, Badho is like  . You just keep slapping on the atrocities, and she just keeps coming back. She is always in a state of triumph."
  
  
 
  
 
