CHANDIGARH: While making “mid-course corrections” with new names for two seats, the fourth list of ten names of   made it obvious that deadlock over contentious seats was delaying ticket allotment in the party. The party failed to name its nominees for the nine contentious seats, from some of which Akali turncoats are in the fray.

 Amid opposition from Congress leaders, the party has decided to replace its Jalandhar North candidate, Tejinder Bittu, with ex-MLA Rajkumar Gupta. Bittu was being termed as an “outsider” by those opposing his candidature. Similarly, from Bhadaur (SC) constituency, Nirmal Singh Nimma has been replaced with Joginder Singh Panjgrain, who had contested 2012 assembly polls on a Congress ticket from Jaitu (SC). Panjgrain was one of the two sitting MLAs (besides Tarlochan Singh from Banga) who had been dropped in the first list.
 
 Sources said the lackluster campaign of Nimma could have gone against him. In the case of Bittu, the change comes within a day of announcement of his candidature. It being a Hindu-dominated seat, party leaders were reportedly of the view that Gupta will be a better choice. The party has played musical chairs with the two leaders in the past as well. “Though Bittu is known to be in proximity to the party leadership, the party has decided to make the change,” said a Congress leader. Bittu was facing dissidence from not just Gupta, but also former Congress minister Avtar Henry. Gupta claims to enjoy popularity among the sizeable Aggarwal community in the area, and he was not happy with Bittu getting the party ticket.
 
 An official spokesperson of the party said the two new candidates scored higher in terms of “winnability”. The party has failed to reach a consensus on key seats Jalandhar Cantonment and Nakodar, from where Pargat Singh is being considered, and Amritsar East, which has been reserved for Navjot Singh Sidhu.
 
 With this, the party has announced a total of 108 candidates for the election to the 117-member state assembly. The remaining tickets would be announced at the earliest, said Punjab Congress president Captain  , reiterating the party’s commitment to choosing winnable candidates over other considerations and sticking to the “one family , one ticket” rule.
 
 Punjabi singer Satwinder Kaur Bitti is the woman candidate on the list and has been fielded from Sahnewal, while Jalandhar West assembly seat ticket has gone to sitting Congress MC councillor Sushil Kumar Rinku.
 
 From Sujanpur, Congress has fielded Amit Singh Manto, and former mayor Sunil Dutti has been given the ticket from Amritsar North. Other candidates selected to battle the polls are Hardev Singh Laddi from Shahkot, Luv Kumar Goldy from Garshankar, Barinder Dhillon from Ropar, and Geja Ram from Jagraon (SC).
 
