MUMBAI: An odd thing about virtual social networks is that they can reveal as much as they can hide.  , the man who triggered online panic and police concern by allegedly posting a fake message about his four-year-old nephew's kidnap and murder, is in all probability a Pakistani national living in Lahore. 

    of Shaikh, whose last post announced the funeral of his nephew at the   in Mazgaon on Sunday, contradict his bio where he calls Mathura his hometown and Mumbai the city where he currently lives. 
 
  Shaikh's Facebook page that he had deactivated on Sunday evening following the hoax reappeared on Monday night but was disabled yet again on Tuesday afternoon. In between, TOI combed through his profile to find several instances where Shaikh appears to have airbrushed his reality to create a false identity, perhaps to make himself more appealing to his friends, most of who seemed to be from India. 
 
 While his photo albums are full of commonly shared images from Mumbai's streets which he claims to have taken, discrepancies in some are obvious.
 
  where he has tagged the location of certain images, in which he appears, as "Cafe Leopold" and " " even though the backdrop and surroundings do not reflect the genuine locations. 
 
 What gives Shaikh away is a photograph of him seated inside a car whose rear windshield bears a sticker with the word "Ravians" and a logo. As it turns out, 'Ravians' is a name used by the alumni of the   in Lahore and the logo on the car sticker resembles the university's emblem.
 
 In another tell-tale image, Shaikh who is dressed in a pilot's uniform in most of his Facebook photos and seen posing in and around mini aircraft and even flying one in a video post, dons a pilot hat with the name 'Hybrid' stitched on to it. 
 
 It seems Lahore has a 19-year-old aeronautical organization called Hybrid Aviation that is managed by aviation professionals and offers a range of flying services across Pakistan such as aircraft charter, air ambulance, mail delivery and air advertisements. Hybrid also has a flying school that imparts flying training to aspiring and eligible pilots.
 
 In many of the photographs, Shaikh appears in uniform with the Hybrid Aviation badge on his shirt pocket and is seen posing in front of an airliner titled 'AP-BJE', which too belongs to Hybrid's fleet of aircraft, according to their official website.
 
 Two such pictures where he is seen posing inside what looks like Hybrid Aviation's private hangar but is geo-tagged as 'Pawan Hans', a helicopter service provider in Mumbai, further expose his attempts at trying to inaccurately represent his real life.
 
 However, Shaikh's older posts do not make any political or inflammatory statements. Instead, some dwell on his desire to be famous and some manifest his fascination with India, particularly Mumbai.
 
 Mumbai Police's cybercrime investigation cell is still probing the whereabouts of Shaikh since he pulled off the hoax.
 
