After nearly a year, Lucknow witnessed the second gaming tournament organised at   in Gomti Nagar. The two-day event, titled BattleEx, organised by  , a gaming addict, and owner of a gaming cafe in Lucknow, saw participation by around 100 gaming enthusiasts from all over the state. "This is my initiative to connect with   across the state so that we at least have a community for such budding and enthusiastic players in the state and can then make several teams which can participate in national and international gaming competitions," shares Devendra.
While this is the first large scale gaming competition being organised by Devendra, he claims to have been organising several small level tournaments in his cafe. "Last month I had organised a game battle of Taken 7, but it was on a small scale. This time I thought of taking the competition to a higher level. There isn't any registration fee for this competition because I know most parents don’t support such a hobby. So it will be difficult for the participants, who are mostly students, to arrange money for the entry fee. The participants are not just from Lucknow but have come all the way from different parts of UP. Slowly the community is getting bigger and bigger and everyone keeps each other informed about several topics related to the gaming field through social networking websites. Our ultimate aim is to create UP as a hub of gamers," adds Devendra. 
 At the event, we spoke to several gaming  , who seemed quite happy to participate in a competition organised in the state. 
 13-year-old Daksh Yadav, studying at Delhi Public School in Lucknow was the youngest player present at the competition. He revealed he plays for five hours daily. "Just like in the Metros, there is no community for gamers in UP. However, in the past two years, the community is slowly building up. All thanks to such competitions happening in Lucknow. Since I am still young, my parents don’t allow me to go and participate in various national level competitions happening in the Metros. But in the past one or two years, I have met several gaming addicts in Lucknow. We even have competitions happening in the city which was a rare thing to even imagine at one point in time," he shares. 
 Unable to find a proper gaming cafe in Lucknow, Akshay Pratap Singh, who just passed class XII and has cleared JEE, purchased a personal computer, which costs around 1 lakh rupees. "UP as a state is still far behind than other big cities and the Metros when it comes to having a community for gamers. Also, since there was not a single cafe in the city, I had purchased my own customised gaming PC worth a lakh rupees,” shares Akshay, who has been a game addict ever since he was in standard II. “I want to participate in international gaming competitions, which gives us a chance to win a handsome amount. If the number of such competitions increases in the state, the community of gamers is bound to grow here just like it is there in the metros." 
 Participating in a gaming tournament for the first time, Amikesh Gupta, who came all the way from  , says, "I wasn't aware that such tournaments are held in Lucknow also since Delhi has been our destination to participate in any of the gaming tournaments. As soon as I came to know about it from social media, without giving it a second thought I came here along with my friends who too are addicts like me.” He adds, "I aim to participate in international gaming competitions where I can showcase my gaming skills and these types of initiatives are the stepping stone towards it."
 Such is the addiction for these gamers, that they are even ready to risk anything to participate in a competition like this. “I have my mid-term exams starting from Monday and here I am participating in this competition till Sunday,” says Gyaneshwar Barapatre, a class XII students, who came from Kanpur. He adds, "I was really excited to know that a gaming competition is happening in Lucknow. Such events should happen more often I feel especially for people like me who plan to participate in international level gaming tournaments."
 — By Adnaan Rizvi
 
  
  Gamers at the second gaming tournament organised at Paryatan Bhawan (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmed Siddiqui)
 
