VISAKHAPATNAM: With increasing instances of assault on   in various parts of India, members of the   (IMA), Vizag chapter, and AP Government Doctors Association (APGDA) are asking for stringent implementation of existing rules to protect the doctors and restrict mass entry of   to government hospitals to safeguard against damage to hospital property and protect doctors.

 In a couple of recent incidents in Dhule in Maharashtra and Chennai, doctors were assaulted by  . In Dhule, the doctor who was brutally attacked by the relatives of an  , suffered from vision loss after the incident. In Chennai, the duty doctor in a government hospital was assaulted by an in-patient's relatives following which there was widespread protest by doctors.
 
 In AP, besides their long-standing demands for pay revision and time-bound promotion, doctors are also concerned about their security issue. During the chief ministership of late YS Rajasekhara Reddy, an ordinance was passed which was later made into an Act protecting doctors from physical assaults. Under the Act, attack on doctors by patient attendants was considered a punishable offence and those who vandalised hospital property had to replace it. Following AP’s footsteps, some other states also came up with similar Acts. However, doctors point out that implementation of the Act needs to be stringent. 
 
 President of IMA, Vizag, Dr MV Vijaya Shekar said, “We express solidarity with the doctors in Maharashtra and Chennai. If a patient’s family is dissatisfied with treatment, they can always register a complaint with the police or complain to the consumer forum. But physically assaulting doctors is not the solution.”
 
 Secretary of APGDA, Vizag, Dr D Jayadheer said, “King George Hospital (KGH) is a 1,300-bed institute where besides in-patients, around 2,500 come to the out-patient department daily. There are more than 10,000 people in the hospital at some point of time, which is way beyond the permissible limit. The situation is more problematic in the casualty ward and ICU. There's a serious need to restrict the entry of attendants or outsiders who troop in and create chaos in the hospital.”
 
 “We are asking the government to restrict the number of attendants per patient because they crowd around the wards, disturb the treatment process as well as litter the hospital premises. In our subsequent meetings we are going to take up this issue about protection of doctors and ensuring them a safe working environment,” added Dr Vijaya Sekhar.
 
 Doctors want implementation of the Act protecting medics from assault to be more stringent.
 
