AGRA/DEHRADUN: There are rumblings of protest that seem to be growing louder in the BJP’s UP and Uttarakhand units after declaration of the first list of candidates for the 2017 polls. The party which had welcomed turncoats and rebels in large numbers earlier this year in both the states is now faced with rebellion of its own by party men who have been ignored to favour "outsiders". 
 
  On Wednesday,   MP from Fatehpur Sikri Choudhary Babulal raised the banner of revolt and announced that he would oppose the candidature of Pakshalika Singh, wife of Raja Aridaman Singh, who recently left the Samajwadi Party to join the BJP. She has been fielded from Bah.
  
  Resentment has been reported from several districts in UP. BJP party workers in Firozabad protested against allotment of ticket to BSP rebel Dr Mukesh Verma from Shikohabad constituency. Similarly, in Kasganj district, BJP supporters and party workers burnt effigies and threw black ink on posters of national president Amit Shah, Union home minister Rajnath Singh and Rajasthan governor Kalyan Singh for allotment of ticket to BSP rebel Mamtesh Shakya from Patiyali constituency. They warned that the "entire cadre" of BJP’s Patyali constituency would resign if the party didn’t revoke its decision. 
  
  In Baghpat, party workers are miffed over tickets to one community -- Jats -- in all the five assembly segments. Baghpat Lok Sabha seat is represented by former Mumbai police commissioner Satya Pal Singh, a Jat. Local BJP workers are said to have burnt the effigy of Singh on Tuesday. The party has given tickets to rebel RLD leader Yogesh Dhama, KP Malik, Satyender Tagana and Dr Manju Shivach.
  
  The ticket announcement has upset leaders in Shahjahanpur too. In fact, BJP district chief in Shahjahanpur, Rakesh Dubey, tried to immolate himself outside the party office in Lucknow on Wednesday. Dubey, a party loyalist for 28 years, had been seeking to fight from Dadraul. He was arrested and later handed over to police. A BJP leader said, "Perhaps the party has gone too far to woo some communities at the cost of antagonising others."
  
  The story is the same in Bijnor, where many are miffed at the surprise announcement of a ticket for Suchi Chaudhary, who some claimed had never been even heard of earlier. “Her only claim to fame is her husband,  , leader of a BJP-affiliate organistaion who has been accused of playing a role in the Peda communal clashes where four persons were killed and many injured,” said a BJP leader. 
  
  BJP state general secretary   told TOI that 10 sitting MLAs from other parties have been fielded so far. In the first list are 7 BSP MLAs, 2 from RLD and one from Congress. He said nearly two dozen “outsiders” have been given a chance. Former MoS (HRD) and BJP’s Agra MP Ram Shankar Katheria said winnability of candidates was the sole criteria for allowing tickets. Significantly, he indicated that more turncoats could be included in the upcoming lists.
  
  In Uttarakhand, 14 turncoats or their kin have been rewarded with tickets, which has led to widespread protests in almost all the seats given to the rebels, with many BJP leaders claiming they will now fight as independents. While the entire district committee of the party resigned at Bageshwar, in some constituencies in Kumaon like Ranikhet, Dharchula and parts of Pithoragarh, BJP leaders and their supporters have walked out of the party. In Dharchula, BJP workers burnt effigies of state president Ajay Bhatt, Union minister Ajay Tamta and tore posters of Amit Shah on Wednesday. 
  
  A major problem for the BJP is that the revolt has been equally bad in both Kumaon and Garhwal regions. The internal strife is likely to hit the BJP more in Garhwal, which has 41 of the 70 assembly seats and the party was thought to have an upper hand over Congress in the region. As on Wednesday evening, as many as 22 BJP members denied tickets were aiming to contest elections either as independents or under the banner of another party.
  
  BJP state spokesperson Munna Singh Chauhan said, “It is not possible to please all party members. Minor issues will be sorted out. The party is determined to thrown the corrupt Congress out of power in Uttarakhand.”
  
  (With inputs from Rajiv Srivastava in Lucknow)
