GANDHINAGAR: While the state assembly elections are some 10 months away, instead of fighting against   unitedly, Gujarat Congress leaders are amid a cold war with each other over who will be the Congress’s chief ministerial candidate for the assembly elections.

 After leader of opposition in the assembly Shankersinh Vaghela’s “Bapu for CM” social media campaign and posters, state Congress president Bharatsinh Solanki has also jumped into the race to be the grand old party’s CM candidate. Posters of him seen over the last week across north Gujarat have widened the rift in the party’s state unit. Congress’s internal jostling has given fodder to the state BJP government, which is trying hard to beat the Congress once again in the next elections.
 
 Nitin Patel, deputy chief minister said: “Posters of Bharatsinh for CM and the social media campaign of ‘Bapu for CM’ by Shankersinh   also clearly shows their internal rift.”
 
 Bharatsinh Solanki, about the posters across North Gujarat projecting him as the next Gujarat CM said: “It was done by party workers on their own. I insisted that they avoid this but they wanted to express their feelings. BJP insulted Lord Shiva by depicting PM Modi as Lord Shiva. The posters show the democracy in our party. We don’t have any differences.”
 
 Vaghela said: “What is wrong if workers express their feelings? If Bharatsinh’s workers express their feeling there is nothing wrong in it. My workers want me to be CM. Who will the next CM candidate will be decided by the central leadership alone.”
 
 Vaghela tight-lipped after BJP’s challenge
 
 After claiming on Tuesday that he has sex CDs of 12 BJP leaders and being immediately challenged by the saffron party, Vaghela has now become tight-lipped. When asked about Nitin Patel’s second challenge to him, to expose any CDs of BJP leaders that he may have, Vaghela declined to comment. “I don’t want to make any further comment. I don’t want to make a comment on anyone’s character,” Vaghela said.
 
 Congress to gherao assembly on Monday over Naliya sex scandal
 
 Congress announced plans to gherao the state assembly on February 20 over the Naliya sex scandal. The Congress will also conduct a Naliya (Kutch) to Gandhinagar yatra, to demand justice for the victims.
 
 
