NASHIK: State Chief Election Commissioner (CEC)   has appealed to first-time voters to exercise their franchise in a big way and without any fear in the   (ZP) elections. 

 Sahariya was in Nashik on Friday to take stock of the poll preparations in the division. Before chairing the meeting with officials, he interacted with college students through video conferencing from the Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University (YCMOU) premises . 
 
 “Exercise your franchise on the day of voting without any fear,” Saharia said in his address to about 4800-odd students from 78 colleges involving three districts of the  . 
 
 “Young voters will decide the fate of your city. The   is also keen to see to it that the first-time voters take part in the electoral process in a big way. That is why I am holding my first official interaction with the youth after the announcement of the elections,” he said. 
 
 Students from Nashik-based JIT, MET, and Sandeep University participated in the video conferencing from Nashik city and asked their questions to the state CEC.
 
 When a student from Nashik asked why the Election Commission fails to bring blanket ban on tainted candidates, Sahariya explained the process of election nominations in short.
 
  “Candidates convicted up to 2 years of jail term disqualify for contesting elections. But most importantly, it’s up to the voters not to elect candidates with criminal history,” he said. 
 
 Sahariya advocated the “online” voter registration and candidature filling process that was followed for the first time this year. “At present, voters have to take print-outs of online voter registration applications and submit it in person to the district collector’s office. But very soon, we will make this process completely online,” he said. 
 
 The interaction was coordinated by YCMOU registrar Dinesh Bhonde. 
 
 He said, “It was a good initiative to ensure participation of youths in election process. Students from 78 colleges participated in the interaction and many of them were from rural areas.”
 
