Mumbai:   and   are evaluating a merger between them, which could see the Franco-Swiss group   consolidating its position in India, one of the fastest growing large economies in the world. The two companies’ boards on Friday constituted a committee of directors — of which a majority are independent — to consider the possibility of combining Ambuja Cements and ACC.

 LafargeHolcim owns through Holderind Investments nearly 64% in Ambuja Cements, which in turn — along with Holderind — has about 55% in ACC. Among the top listed companies in the  , the merger will give the LafargeHolcim group a combined market cap of close to Rs 80,000 crore in India. Bigger rival UltraTech Cement, owned by billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla, has a market cap of Rs 1.19 lakh crore.
 
 The two companies informed the stock exchanges that a merger could enable them to combine their strengths in the cement business, which has seen a handful of buyouts in the recent past.
 
 The Ambuja Cement-ACC combine will also create an enterprise with an annual capacity of 63 million tonnes, which is the same as the current capacity of UltraTech. But in terms of sales, the merged entity will surpass the home-grown cement maker. Ambuja Cement-ACC’s combined sales in calendar 2016 amounted to Rs 31,511 crore, while UltraTech’s FY17 sales were Rs 27,162 crore. UltraTech is in the midst of completing the purchase of Jaypee’s cement business, which would then take its total capacity to over 90 million tonnes.
 
 There has been buzz about the proposed merger of Ambuja Cements and ACC in the industry right from the time Lafarge and Holcim combined globally in 2015 to form the largest cement producer in the world. A couple of quarters ago, LafargeHolcim raised its holding in Ambuja Cements and ACC by buying shares from the secondary market.
 
 The amalgamation of Lafarge and Holcim had triggered the sale of some domestic business of their India units so that they could operate as a single entity in the country as well as comply with competition laws. This resulted in Lafarge selling its cement units to Karsanbhai Patel’s Nirma Group for an enterprise value of Rs 9,400 crore last year. 
 
 Criticising the proposed deal, former MD & CEO of Ambuja Cements, Anil Singhvi, told TOI, “This is an in-house merger. There is no good news for minority shareholders as there will be no control premium payout. Holcim has destroyed value for small investors. For the last 10-odd years, the share price of Ambuja Cements has moved from Rs 155 to Rs 230 only.”
 
 Holcim had bought Ambuja Cements and ACC from the Narotam Sekhsaria and Suresh Kumar Neotia families in the mid-2000s.
 
 
