JAIPUR: The   Dargah has decided to challenge the lower court’s verdict in the bomb blast case. The Anjuman   (a parent body of  ) would approach the   to appeal against the acquittals.

 The NIA court convicted two persons to life imprisonment, while acquitted 7 others including Swami Aseemanand in the case on March 22. The court had awarded life imprisonment for three—Devendra Gupta, Bhavesh Joshi and Sunil Joshi who was found dead mysteriously at   in MP in 2007.
 
 The blast took place on October 11 2007 a few meters away from the crypt, minutes before the breaking of evening fast in the month of Ramzan. It claimed three lives. Earlier the suspects also included Sadhvi Pragya and RSS ideologue Indresh Kumar. However, the NIA did not press the charges against them due to insufficient evidences by the investigating agencies.
 
 A complainant, Syed Sarwar Chishty, who is also a khadim (priest) at   said, “Honorable court itself had questioned the clean chit given by the investigation agencies for Pragya. The court had also expressed displeasure over the agencies failing to arrest accused who are declared absconders—Sandeep Danga, Suresh Nair, Ramchandra Kalsangra.”
 
 The observation of the court itself raised doubt over the way investigating agencies have handled the case. “We have enough reasons to go to highest court till we get the justice. We are preparing an appeal to be filed in the Rajasthan High Court,” said Chishty.
 
 Anjuman Syed Zadgan, secretary Syed Wahid Angarahshah Chishty said, “It is unfortunate that most of the witness have turned hostile and agencies let that happened. The devotees of khawaja sahib which includes people from all faiths have expressed their support till we get the justice.”
 
 Ashwani Kumar Sharma, public prosecutor, NIA in   had also expressed surprise over the acquittal of Swami Aseemanded had said, “I will recommend in my report for appeal against the acquittal of Swami Aseemanand.”
 
 Sharma talking to TOI on Wednesday said he had not yet sent any report to the NIA as I am still studying over 600 pages order of the lower court. He said he is awaiting the next hearing on April 17. 
 
