AHMEDABAD: Residents of the Dharti III building near GST Crossing in Ranip heard repeated blasts near them the four-storied apartment building soon filled with smoke, at around 9am on Friday. They learned the source of the explosions was inside their building, where a caterer’s stove in the open caused five LPG cylinders to explode.

 Fortunately, there were no casualties but a few residents suffered burn injuries. After   (AFES) had doused the flames, a team from the   (AMC) visited the site and sealed the premises of Khodiar Caterers. Ranip police registered an offence against  , the owner of the catering firm.
 
  AFES officials said the catering firm had 20 LPG cylinders, 10 commercial and 10 for domestic use, kept in the open. “It is may be that there was a leakage in one of the cylinders which was then exposed to a naked flame and created a fireball. It was fortunate that the cylinders were out in the open. The same explosions inside the building could have brought it down,” a senior AFES official said.
 
  
  
 
 A team led by M F Dastoor, chief fire officer and Rajesh Bhatt, additional chief fire officer, AFES, doused the flames after a 90-minute operation. AFES officials said the residences on one side up to three stories up reported severe fire damage. 
 
  The residents raced on hearing the blasts and claimed that they had earlier warned the caterers, working out of a rented premises for the last three months, to not use so many cylinders.
 
 AFES officials also recommended an investigation by gas agencies to find how the firm got hold of so many cylinders. “Such a large number at any premises could mean trouble. It increases the likelihood of a chain reaction, as was seen in this incident, when one blast leads to another,” said an official.
 
 In another incident, four timber shops in the Guptanagar area of Vasna were gutted in a major fire at 2.30am on Friday. Some 14 AFES vehicles were deployed in an operation that lasted till 7.30am.
 
 Bhatt said that the blaze caused damage to four shops and two residences. “The affected area had old wooden planks, discarded furniture and other materials that easily caught fire. We tried to contain the spread as it could have caused damage to life and property. While the cause of fire is not known, locals claim that there was an electricity fluctuation, which my have caused a spark,” he said.
 
 As locals rushed out soon after the fire started, loss of lives was averted.
 
