Hyderabad: Two professors who fought for the cause of a separate Telangana state now find themselves pitted against each other on the issue of employment and filling of vacancies in the state government.

 While 61-year-old TJAC leader   is leading an agitation against the government demanding jobs for youth, 51-year-old Ghanta Chakrapani, chairman of the   (TSPSC) is tasked with filling government job vacancies.
 
 Both   and Chakrapani worked shoulder-to-shoulder during the agitation for a separate Telangana state. At the time of the elections in 2014, both refused to contest the polls despite being offered tickets by the  . Incidentally, both have a history of fighting for civil rights. Kodandaram was a professor in political science at   before his recent retirement. Chakrapani was a professor of sociology at Dr B R Ambedkar Open University before his appointment as TSPSC chairman.
 
 On Wednesday, Kodandaram was in custody as police tried to prevent a rally demanding employment for youth. Chakrapani, however, was occupied with his work, as he has been since December 18, 2014 to fill up job vacancies.
 
 “We will soon fill 8,172 vacancies and the notifications will be issued shortly,” Chakrapani told TOI. So far 5,940 government jobs in various departments have been filled and some of them are in the final phases of the recruitment process. In addition, there are jobs that are filled directly by other agencies like the police, Singareni Collieries Company Limited, Transco and   and Telangana State Road Transport Corporation. The total number of these, including regularization of jobs in various departments will be 25,000, he said.
 
 Kodandaram has been highlighting the growing desperation of the jobless youth and government’s duty to keep its promise of providing employment.
 
 According to figures given out by Chakrapani, a completely transparent system of filling up jobs has been established. The TSPSC website shows that as many as 13 lakh youth have registered online for jobs. The respective government departments will provide an indent for the posts that are required to be filled and the Commission then takes up the process of filling the vacancies, he explained.
 
 Every candidate who specifies what job he or she is interested in will get an SMS alert and an e-mail about any new notification for jobs that suits their educational qualification. The eligibility tests are also conducted online.
 
 “For the very first notification that was issued, the entire process of recruitment was completed in 40 days. We have put in place a fastest possible practice in the country to achieve this,” Chakrapani said.
 
 
