PUNE: Companies such as Google,   and other social media platforms should take responsibility for content on their sites, technocrat and policymaker Sam   said on Saturday. 

 He and a few other individuals across the globe have come together under the aegis of Association for Accountability and Internet Democracy (AAID) in Paris to demand "protection of private integrity and societal value" on the Internet.
 
 "Twenty of us from all over the world have come together and we want big companies like Facebook and Google to take responsibility for their content," Pitroda said while addressing a gathering of   members and others at the   here.
 
 He said unlike newspapers, big companies like Google and Facebook do not take responsibility for their content.
 
 "If newspapers publish incorrect information, they will apologise. On the other hand, Google and Facebook won't even remove the content. So, this has been bothering us for quite some time," he said.
 
 Pitroda said that there is concern over a lot of misinformation, gossip and vendetta on social media. "By design, people propagate misinformation because it gets them more hits," the technology veteran added.
 
 The man, who also served as advisor to former Prime Minister  , said some people hire publicists to tweet on their behalf. "There is a difference between propaganda and information," said the man who is credited with laying the telecommunication roadmap for the country in the 1980s.
 
 He stressed the need for a new design to the world order in the Internet age and said India - because of its value system, family bonds and social cohesion - is best suited to build that design.
 
 "World can only be redesigned by Indians but we are not ready to take on a task like this because our house is not in order. Today, the world is waiting for India to take the lead. People want family values, love, compassion -- all of which India has and also it has costumes, colour, food, diversity. No other country has that kind of diversity. To hold a country with so much diversity without guns is one of India's greatest accomplishments," he added.
 
