Nagpur: The process of acquiring land for the Nagpur Expressway began on Thursday with six sale deeds of land belonging to farmers being registered at Hingna tehsil office. 

 Maharashtra   Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) minister Eknath Shinde gave away Rs 2.6 crore for 5.59 hectares as compensation. While hundreds of farmers have consented to give up their land for the ambitious project, this is the first time that land’s ownership has been actually transferred to the government. 
 
 MSRDC, which is executing the project, transferred the money through real-time gross settlement (RTGS) directly to the bank account of the six farmers. After a government resolution was issued last year, the state is paying project-affected persons (PAPs) only through the RTGS mode. An MSRDC source said that those people affected by Gosikhurd irrigation were among the earliest to get compensation through RTGS. Earlier in many cases, there was delay in doling out compensation to the PAPs, in other instances middlemen and touts pocketed a lion’s share of the payout. The delays had put off many who 
 
 Shinde said that the state government wanted to do the bhumi-pujan of the expressway on October 2. “We are confident of completing the land acquisition process by then. There are some pockets of resistance but we are holding talks with the farmers and will acquire land only with their consent,” he said.
 
 While Shinde, who belongs to Shiv Sena, is working hard for the success of the project, but his political boss Uddhav Thackeray has red-flagged it. “Uddhavji is not against the project. He only wants that farmers’ plots should not be taken away forcibly. He regularly tells me to hold parleys with cultivators and meet their demands. The policy of the state government, including chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, is no different.”
 
 “Out of 392 villages where land was required for the project, joint measurement had been completed in 371 villages. Joint measurement is only done when we have farmers’ consent,” he added. 
 
 The expressway is Fadanavis’s pet project. 
 
 
