HYDERABAD: After the  's decision on Friday, to halt admission process to Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) and other top engineering colleges, qualified students across two Telugu states said they were shocked and unsure of their future.
The order, which will impact 7,505 qualified candidates from Telangana and  , followed a petition by two students, who sought the court's direction on IIT's decision to award 18 bonus marks to all students for wrong questions in the Joint Entrance Exam (Advanced).
 
 Students panicked after the SC stay. “This is unfair.IITs would not have awarded bonus marks without giving a thought. A number of students will be hit by this order,“ said  , who secured all-India rank 69 in the open category.
 
 While the apex court has scheduled the next hearing in the case on Monday, educationists say the order will impact future of students who abandoned other courses, once they got through to IIT. Parents and students from the two states said they will spend sleepless nights, while monitoring the final verdict to evaluate choices.
 
 “My son was offered a seat in computer science in IIT-Kharagpur. And we have booked our tickets and accommodation to shift our son to Kharagpur. Now, we will have to wait for the final verdict,“ said Babu George, parent of Robin George from Hyderabad, who secured all-India rank of 222 in the open category.
 
 The apex court also hinted it may follow its own verdict in 2005, when it held bonus marks for a wrong question can be given only to those who attempted the question.
 
 Coaching institutions in the city said if that happens, then the dynamics of the ranks and cut-off marks will change. “While it may not impact top rankers, it will certainly hit those who secured ranks between 1,000 and 5,000 as the merit list and cut-off marks will get altered,“ said Venkat Ramana, IITJEE exam head in TIME institute, Hyderabad.
 
 While parents and students are worried, IIT authorities are optimistic their counsel will ensure the admission process does not get affected. “The committee which detected the errors found awarding bonus marks as the most practical solution. We are certain the IIT's counsel will do its best so that the decision comes in our favour and the admission process is resumed soon soon,“ said Dr Ch Subh ramanyam, JEE chairman at IIT, Hyderabad.
 
 Some students are, however, optimistic the decision will usher transparency in the results. “I'm glad SC has stalled the admission process since awarding bonus marks to those who did not even attempt the questions is unfair.Such a trend must not be encouraged,“ said G Niranjan, who secured all India rank 362 in open category.
 
 (With inputs from M Anupama in Vijayawada and   in Visakhapatnam)
 
