JALANDHAR: At a time when there’s talk that polarization was the main reason for Congress’s victory in the Punjab assembly elections, an analysis of seats in the party’s kitty has revealed that 40 of the 77 assembly constituencies it won, are rural and have a predominantly Sikh population. The traditional “Panthic belt” in Majha region stands out, having the highest success rate for Congress.

 The analysis also reflects that Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) could not get Sikh votes as per its expectations, though it got enough votes to ensure that Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) was relegated to the third place. Of these 40 seats won by the Congress, AAP remained in the third position in 30 constituencies. In fact, Taran Taran district, which has the highest Sikh population percentage in the state — 96.1% in rural areas and 73.9% in urban areas, according to the 2011 Census — has given all four seats to Congress — Khadoor Sahib, Patti, Taran Taran and Khemkaran. AAP remained a distant third there.
 
 From Khadoor Sahib, Congress’s Ramanjit Singh Sikki, who had resigned from the state assembly to protest against Bargari sacrilege and subsequent firing, defeated SAD’s Ravinder Singh Brahmpura by 17,222 votes. The Akali leader had won the byelection from the constituency around a year ago amid a boycott by the Congress.
 
 Of the six rural seats in Amritsar, also considered a part of the ‘Panthic belt’, five have gone to Congress and AAP finished third at four of these constituencies. The Congress won from Ajnala, Raja Sansi, Jandiala, Attari and Baba Bakala. Only Majitha remained out of Congress’s reach. In that seat, AAP suffered such a defeat that its candidate, Himmat Singh Shergill, lost his security deposit. According to the 2011 Census, Sikhs make up 91.2% of Amritsar district’s population. 
 
 Four seats considered rural in Gurdaspur, which again have a large Sikh presence — Sri Hargobindpur, Dera Baba Nanak, Fategarh Churian and Qadian — have also gone to the Congress.
 
 The only other district where Congress has won all three seats, Fatehgarh Sahib, has a population of 63% Sikhs in urban and rural areas together. Moga, which has 90.8% Sikh population in rural areas and 53.2% in urban areas, has given three seats to the Congress – Dharamkot, Bagha Purana and Moga. AAP won the fourth seat, Nihal Singh Wala. “It is wrong to see the results as an outcome of polarization on communal lines. Instead, this happened because Congress got a response across all communities,” said Congress MLA Harminder Singh Gill, who defeated sitting MLA and former minister Adesh Partap Singh Kairon of the SAD from Patti. 
 
 Gill was once a top leader of All India Sikh Students Federation in the 1980s. “The results have made it clear that a major section of Panthic voters has sided with Congress, especially in Majha. In Tarn Taran, the party had found it difficult to win after 1984. The presence of Capt Amarinder Singh at the helm and election being contested in his name played the biggest role in breaking the block among Sikh voters,” he said. “The negativity against Badals over sacrilege incidents also helped.”
 
 SAD former minister and SGPC former secretary general Manjit Singh Calcutta said the results clearly showed that Sikhs voted for Congress in significant numbers to ensure the defeat of Akalis. “Amarinder has his own credentials among Sikhs for opposing Operation Bluestar in 1984, then the police entry in the Golden Temple in 1986, and later taking a stand for Punjab rivers waters as the CM,” he said.
 
 “This time, people wanted to ensure SAD’s defeat and chose a party and candidate who could defeat it. AAP was inconsistent and was taking Sikhs for granted even as outsiders had complete control over it. Several things had a collective impact,” said Akal Takht former jathedar Prof Manjit Singh, who led Sikh organizations to release a list of 13 candidates to vote for from AAP and Congress and issued an appeal to Punjab voters to ensure SAD’s defeat.
 
 
