 : Showing concern over the arrival of stones for the construction of   in Ayodhya, various Muslim organisations are planning to lodge protest before the   which is hearing the case to decide the ownership of the land on which the proposed temple is to come up.

 Five truckloads of red sandstones have already arrived in the temple town and are kept at the Vishwa Hindu Parishad’s property, Ramsewak Puram. The   has already announced that it would declare the date of temple construction by November. Muslim organisation say that this amount to contempt of court as the matter of temple land ownership is pending before the Supreme Court.
 
 Talking to TOI, Sayed Qasim Rasool Ilyas, senior member of All India Muslim Personal Law Board , said that the board would lodge a complaint before the apex court about the arrival of stones as it is contempt of the SC. “The matter is sub-judice before the court and VHP is gathering stones in Ayodhya for the construction of Ram Mandir. We will seek ban on this activity,” he said. Although AIMPLB is not a party in the title suit at the Supreme Court, it is a representative body of the Muslims in India, and can lodge a complaint, said Ilyas.
 
 Maulana Baadshah, the president of Ayodhya-Faizabad unit of Jamiat Ulema Hind — which is a party in the case — has demanded the immediate ban on the stones arrival and also ban on the carving of stones for Ram Mandir. He said that Jamiat would move to court demanding immediate ban on all VHP activities. Muslim leaders and clerics are also of the opinion that the activities that have been started in Ayodhya recently may disturb the communal harmony and peace.
 
 Khaliq Ahmad Khan, a senior member of All India Milli Council, which is also a party in the case at the Supreme Court, said , "the state government is ignoring the VHP's illegal activities. It must ban the import of stones by VHP,” he said.
 
 Haji Mahboob, also a plaintiff in the case, said that if VHP continued with the import of stones for Ram Mandir, then Muslim community will be bound to gather construction material for   Masjid in Ayodhya.
 
 
