LUDHIANA: A driver, allegedly drunk,   into a house on Karabara Road,   and seriously injuring others late on Saturday evening. The deceased was identified as Ramji, 5. Anamika, 6, was injured. Police arrested the accused, 35-year-old Ashok Kumar, who lives in the same area.

 Late on Saturday evening, police said, Ashok Kumar, who was allegedly heavily drunk, was driving his   and Ramji was playing with Anamika near the main gate of the house. Ramji’s family were tenants at Anamika’s father Rakesh Kumar’s house. Police said Kumar lost control of his vehicle near the house and rammed into the gate. The car broke through the door of the house, with Ramji on the bonnet. He suffered serious injuries and died. Anamika, who was seriously injured, was rushed to the civil hospital.
 
 Police said the accused driver tried to run away but family members of the victims and neighbours caught him. Later, someone called the police. Police from Salem Tabri police station reached the spot. Further investigations are on. Police arrested the accused and booked him under sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code. 
 
 SHO, Salem Tabri police station Amandeep Singh Brar said the accused was drunk at the time of the  . He said the accused was produced before a local court which remanded him in judicial custody. The condition of Anamika is stable and postmortem of the deceased, Ramji, has been done by doctors at civil hospital. 
 
 Meanwhile, road safety experts said there is little fear of being caught and punished for offences like drunken driving and speeding, which are responsible for 60% to 80% deaths in road accidents.
 
 “The number of challans issued for petty offences in the city is very high but challans for offences like drunken driving and speeding are not being issued. As a result, there is no fear of being caught and punished for these offences,” said international road safety expert Kamaljit Soi, who is member of National Road Safety Council, the apex body for road safety in India.
 
