KOLKATA: In an unheard of move, the   ( ) has taken pre-emptive action by intimating police after a director threatened suicide if the certification row over his film wasn’t resolved in seven days. 

 Director Milan Bhowmik had on July 13 said in a letter to the regional officer of CBFC that if the board didn’t give him an answer regarding the certification status of his film ‘1946 Calcutta Killings’ (Bengali version ‘Danga, the riot’) within seven days, the certifying body should be held responsible for abetment in case he was forced to end his life.
 
 Under normal circumstances, such a letter would have gone unnoticed. But with CBFC in the news for all the wrong reasons, the officials didn’t want to take any chances. On Monday, the CBFC officials shot off two letters — one to   and the other to the Hare Street police station — informing them about the suicide threat. 
 
 Necessary documents were attached along with the letters to show that no paper work on Bhowmik’s films was pending with the local CBFC office. A copy of the director’s letter was also attached. 
 
 When contacted, CBFC member George Baker said, “I didn’t know a director could go to this extent to hold the CBFC to ransom. The local CBFC office informed me that it has received such a letter and informed the police. I hope no one ever takes this route again.”
 
 Bhowmik, who knew nothing about the cop complaint, said he had on Tuesday sent his son to meet CBFC chairman Pahlaj Nihalani in Mumbai. “I was being treated like a ping pong ball as I ran from pillar to post in Kolkata, Delhi and Mumbai to get a certification. The local CBFC office has an agenda against me and hence made sure that my films never got certification. Devastated by their harassment, I was forced to think of committing suicide,” the director said.
 
 Elaborating on his trauma, Bhowmik said even the Film Certification Appellate Tribunal (FCAT) had refused to consider his films because it is supposed to act in the revising committee stage. “I was being tossed around from one office to the other without any update on where my films were stuck. That’s why I shot the mail expressing my depression. On Tuesday, the board CEO sent a letter to the FCAT chairman saying no film of mine was pending at the revising committee stage. When my son requested that the films be sent directly to FCAT, the CEO agreed. He also wrote a letter to the FCAT chairman,” he said.
 
 Bhowmik claimed the CBFC sat up and took note of his problem only after he issued the suicide threat. “Nothing would have moved had I not threatened to commit suicide. It’s sad that a director has to reach this stage for CBFC to take action,” he said.
 
 
