INDORE: Indore cell of state cyber police busted an internet banking fraud racket and arrested the kingpin of an interstate gang in this connection on Sunday. The accused got access to one time password (OTP) of the victim and transferred Rs 20 lakh from his account using internet banking. 

 On May 3, Mukul Agrawal, owner of textile factories in  , complained cyber cell that his SIM card had stopped working suddenly on May 2. He was told by the customer care department that there was some technical fault and that the SIM was stopped since a duplicate SIM card had been issued. 
 
 Agrawal came to know about the incident when his accountant Bijan Dutta told him that there was insufficient balance in his account to carry out some hefty transactions.
 
 “I went to the   branch of the bank and took out a statement only to find that around Rs 20 lakh was withdrawn from the current accounts of both my companies,” said Agrawal.
 
 Based on a tip off, a team of the cyber cell was sent to Badayun and   districts of Uttar Pradesh in search of the accused. “One of the accused identified as Noor Ahmad son , 27, resident of   in Badayun district was arrested and during questioning he revealed that he had been living in the area as Mohommad Jawed and had created false identity proofs based on the address where he was living,” said Indore cyber cell superintendent of police Jitendra Singh. 
 
 The accused revealed that he had produced documents of the complainant and got a new SIM card issued. Using this, he gained access to the OTP and transferred the money into three different accounts using internet banking.
 
 Cyber cell also seized Rs 10 lakh, which was transferred into the account of the accused fraudulently. “The way in which he laid hands on the internet banking user name and password of the complainant is under investigation. The three accounts in which the money was transferred have been sealed. The accused also revealed that there are over seven to eight boys, who work for him and they have been doing it for past 2-3 years,” said Singh.
 
