SHIMLA: For around 83 years till 1947, Shimla remained the summer capital of India under the British rule. With its grand old buildings, the hill town still retains its colonial heritage. For the British, Shimla was a haven from the notorious Indian heat. Its scenic beauty, location and cool climate made it an idyll. But Shimla's serenity was shattered brick by brick by a tremendous wave of construction lasting decades. 

 At the end of this, the hill state was a pale shadow of its former self. However, its inclusion in the smart city mission has revived the hopes of residents, who feel systematic planning and development will control the damage.
 
 Shimla-based historian Raja Bhasin said the British were amazed at the similarity between Shimla and Europe. He said Shimla needs to protect its British-era heritage and natural beauty. "Massive construction has faded its old glory but inclusion in the smart city mission has come as a hope for this popular tourist town," he said.
 
 
 
 
 As the steady stream of tourists became a flood, business boomed. With it, came all the woes that Shimla had been sheltered from through the centuries. Shimla's luxuriant green cover and forests thinned, then nearly vanished as encroachments cropped up like weeds. 
 
 They even came up on nullahs. Filth piled up and ravaged its pristine beauty, winding roads resounded with deafening horns as an inefficient infrastructure and burgeoning traffic became a recipe for chaos. Heritage was forgotten in the melee. But things may change.
 
 Shimla mayor   said under the smart city project, there is a proposal to conserve and restore the historic core of the city to promote heritage tourism. She said Shimla has 92 listed heritage structures, six heritage zones, one ASI monument of national importance and seven museums. Sadret also said there is a proposal to restore the area between Mall Road and   as heritage zone.
 
  Important components of the project include undergrounding services, developing façade codes, restoring dilapidated buildings and improving urban landscape. She said Shimla's green cover would be restored by planting more trees.
 
 Himachal Pradesh urban development minister   said Shimla has submitted a Smart City proposal of Rs 2,906 crore. While modern amenities will be provided to residents under the smart city project, he said, it will be ensured that the hill town retains its heritage look.
 
 Out of the total proposal, Rs 1,252 crore would be for re-development of Lower Bazar, Sabzi Mandi, Ganj and Krishnanagar, Rs 1,280 crore for retro-fitting of Circular Road and three transit corridors of the city, Rs 197 crore for plan-city application of traffic management and citizen security.
 
 "Apart from this, solid and waste water management, building safety, disaster mitigation and open and recreational places will also get added attention," he said.
 
 
 
 
 There is great controversy over the origin of the name, "Shimla." It is said that the name was derived from 'Shyamalaya', meaning blue house. This was said to be the name of the blue slate house built by a "faqir" in Jakhu. According to another legend, Shimla takes its name from 'Shamla' meaning a blue female, another name for   whose place was on the Jakhu hillside. During the British rule, the image of the Goddess was shifted to a new place, the   road.
 
 
 
 
 In 1819, then assistant political agent of hill states, Lt Ross set up the first British residence, a wooden cottage. His successor Lt   constructed the first pucca house in 1822, named, 'Kennedy House'.
 
 In 1822, the first European house was built in Shimla and by 1830, Shimla had 30 houses. By 1881, Shimla had a population of 4,803 Europeans. 
 
 During the British rule, around 70% of shops at Mall Road were owned by Indians, whose population in Shimla in 1881 was 38,530. 
 
 Today, Shimla has a population of over 1.8 lakh
 
 Construction of Hindustan Tibet road started in 1850-51 from Kalka. In the first lap, it was up to Shimla. The Road to Shimla came to be used for wheeled traffic by 1860.
 
 In 1864, Shimla was declared the summer capital of India and after independence it became the capital of Punjab and was later named capital of Himachal Pradesh
 
