Sunday mornings are usually a time to curl up in bed, even more so if it’s a rainy day. However, a bunch of youngsters from College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram, took a cycle ride in the wee hours last Sunday to create awareness about a dying river that runs through the heart of the city.
 The campaign,  , was a joint venture by 20 members from the college’s NSS wing and   as part of the nationwide awareness campaign,  .
 
 The group kicked off their journey from their college premises in Sreekariyam at 3 am and pedalled their way through Kazhakoottam, Akkulam, Chackai Bypass, Shankumugham Beach Road and then back to their college at 7 am.
 The route was chosen as it is close to the river banks of Thettiyar, says Gopikrishnan S, co-ordinator of the event. “As the aim of Rally for Rivers is to safeguard the water bodies, we selected the   river which is in poor condition due to water pollution and encroachment issues,” he says.
 On picking cycles for the campaign, he says, “It was created by engineering minds. So, being B Tech students, we chose to pedal our way to create awareness about water body conservation.”
 
 The team had multiple stops during the journey, to inform the people about the condition of the river and how to revive it. “We received good response from public at Kazhakoottam and Chackai Bypass stretches. Some were genuinely unaware of the river and its plight,” adds Gopikrishnan, a civil engineering student.
 
 The event was suggested by their NSS programme co-ordinator Joy Varghese, an assistant professor at Mechanical Dept. He says the event was a practical session for the budding engineers to understand the social and environmental issues and play their part.
 “Students these days aren’t exposed to what happens outside their homes and campuses. So, they fail to get in touch with the society they live in and understand the problems,” he says. “As the river flows through the heart of the city, it should be conserved and being the next generation, we nurture the students to take up the responsibility.”
 
 Agreeing with his professor’s views is mechanical engineering student Abdul Rasheed. “This event made us seek solutions to avoid water pollution. We now see this as a social responsibility and are planning to take the initiative forward by partnering with the officials concerned.”
 
 As the next phase of the campaign, the students tell us they are planning to plant bamboo saplings at the banks of Anathazhchira pond at Andoorkonam panchayat to prevent soil erosion.
 
 
