NEW DELHI: The plan of making Connaught Place a vehicle-free zone may be deferred.   chairman   said preparations were on and the actual plan could be rolled out by February 20 instead of February 1.

 “We are working with all the stakeholders and expect to implement the UD ministry order from February 20. Several ideas have been put up and we are consulting experts before we finalise the blueprint,” said Kumar. 
 
 He added that by last week of January, a meeting would be held with all the stakeholders to discuss the action plan. “We have called a meeting with all the stakeholders to finalise the blueprint. After this, we will share the plan with the public and invite suggestions,” Kumar added.
 
 The NDMC chairman had on January 6 announced that vehicles would be out of bounds in   from February. However, the council is still clueless about how to go about it. Apart from deployment of battery-operated vehicles and creation of cycle stands at various points of the market, no other plan has been finalised yet.
 
 Traders have objected to the move, claiming it will affects their business. They have threatened to move court, if required. “We are already facing a lot of trouble due to demonetisation. Now, if the entry of vehicles is banned in CP, it will affect our business badly. Then, we will be forced to take to the streets. We cannot let the government ruin our livelihood,” said Atul Bhargava, president of Connaught Place Traders’ Association.
 
 Kumar said that during the trial period, only the Inner Circle would be made vehicle-free. “We have three multilevel parking facilities, which are not being utilised to their full capacity. In the the initial phase, we will focus only on the Inner Circle. Gradually, we will extend it to the Middle Circle,” he added. 
 
 Kumar informed that the surface parking area around the Inner Circle would not be dismantled now. “We are approaching this with a positive attitude. There are objections coming from every side and we are working to ensure everyone is on board. In the worst case scenario, if the plan doesn’t work, we may scrap the project,” said Kumar. 
 
 
