MYSURU: A tigress died hours after it was caged, due to suspected overdose of chemicals used while tranquillizing her, on the fringes of the   in the early hours of Tuesday.
The foresters collected visceral samples and sent it to labs for toxicological and microbiological tests to locate the exact cause of death.
 
 The tigress, which is believed to be nine years old, had killed cattle near a banana plantation at Gundethur in   on Monday . She was spotted near the kill by villagers, who alerted the forest staff. The operation to nab the animal was launched in the evening as the big cat didn't venture back into the woods even when villagers started crowding the area, which is around 400 metres from the tiger sanctuary. While the services of tamed elephants who have expertise in such operations were requisitioned, field staff launched the operation to nab the animal.
 
 At 5.45pm, the staff tried to tranquillize the tigress but they could not nab her as she kept moving around in the area. The foresters continued the operation as the tigress didn't leave the area, fearing she could attack the villagers.At 1am, the tigress was darted with tranquillizers again and finally caged. As villagers were at the spot, she was shifted to   inside the tiger reserve. Around 4am, the big cat died.
 
 Two of the animal's canines were damaged, and she appeared to have been starving for a week, forcing her to look for an easy kill. There were also injuries on her body, indicating that she was involved in a fight with another big cat. A source told The Times of India that the tigress had regained consciousness after the effect of the drug wore off.The source said the big cat could have died due to stress and associated shock.
 
 SEDATIVE SHOTS
 
 The foresters had used a combination of over one mililitre (ml) of xylazine and ketamine hydrochloride to tranquillize the tigress at Nagarahole. It was later administered yohambin hydrochloride, which nullifies the sedative, allowing her to wake up.A senior vet told TOI: “The quantity of sedative to be used depends on the weight of the tiger. Generally, a tiger weighs around 200kg and tigress 150kg. The staff on the ground helps vets decide the quantity of xylazine and ketamine hydrochloride to be used by looking at the big cat to be darted. After the tiger is darted with a tranquillizer, it takes 15 minutes for the drugs to work.“
 
 ALTERNATIVE DRUG AVAILABLE
 
 A source told TOI that use of xyalzine is risky but foresters are continuing to use it as the alternative drug meditamine is not available in India, and has to be imported.Though the   has been requested to look into this, there is no response, the source said. If the alternative drug is used, it could prove to be less risky as foresters get additional time to act, given that villagers obstruct shifting of the injured tiger.
 
