Surat: The Airports Authority of India (AAI) had set the target of completing the strengthening and recarpeting work of the 185 metre of existing runway at Surat airport before June 15. 

 However, early monsoon in the state could delay the work and even the upcoming direct flight between Dubai and Surat, which was expected to begin from July. Unseasonal rains in Rajkot, Saputara and other parts of the state in the past two days have given rise to this fear. 
 
 For limited international operations, the airport needs 2,905 metre runway, which has been reduced to close to 1,900 metre due to the ongoing recarpeting work being done on 185 metre patch. 
 
 Official sources said the strengthening and recarpeting of 185 metre stretch kick-started last month. The patch is located in the middle of the existing runway. Due to the recarpeting work, the entire 1,000 metre runway is not in use. At present, the usable runway length at the airport is just 1,905 metre, which is not enough for landing of wide-bodied aircraft. Last month, the construction of the 655 metre runway was completed by the AAI. 
 
 Air India Express is preparing to start its international operations between Dubai and Surat latest by the second week of July. But, the ongoing recarpeting of the 185 metre runway could further delay its plan. 
 
 There are chances of early monsoon in the state. The drizzles continue in some parts of Gujarat and neighbouring Maharashtra. If there is early entry of monsoon, work on the recarpeting of the 185 metre stretch would have to be stalled. And that work could be delayed further till October. 
 
 “We are trying to complete the recarpeting of 185 metre patch before the deadline of June 15. Since, many things are involved in the strengthening work of the runway patch, we do not want to take any chances. We only hope that the monsoon arrives in the state as per the schedule,” said an officer of AAI. 
 
 Sanjay Jain, member, ‘We Want a Working Airport at Surat’ said, “Flyers in the Diamond City are eagerly waiting for international operations to kick-start from July. The AAI must ensure that recarpeting of the 185-metre patch is completed by end of May.”
 
 
