PATNA: The   (BSSC) has asked Patna district magistrate (DM)   to probe the alleged question paper leak before the competitive examination commenced at different centres on Sunday. “I have asked Patna DM to carry out investigation in this connection,” BSSC secretary   told TOI.
 
  The intermediate level examination for the assistant posts was conducted at 742 centres in the state. Some of the candidates who wrote the exam alleged that the answer keys were available in public domain hours before the exam started at 11am. A handwritten page with 135 one-word answers went viral on WhatsApp hours before the exam on Sunday. The answers were reportedly for the Set-A booklet. Surprisingly, the set name was also mentioned on the answersheet. Candidates who appeared at the exam told newsmen that most of the answers matched with the options given in the Set-A booklet.
  
  However, BSSC secretary Parmeshwar Ram rubbished the allegations of paper leak. “The claims of paper leak are absolute rubbish. Sealed booklets reached the strongrooms of each district at 5pm on Saturday and sent to all the centres only two hours before the exam. Even the board officials would come to know about questions asked only after the booklets reach the BSSC office for checking of answers,” Ram told TOI. Ram, however, did not respond when asked how he could deny paper leak without knowing the questions asked in the exam.
  
  Several candidates also missed their exam as the BSSC changed some centres at the last moment. The Sunday exam was the second one held across the state for government clerical posts. The first exam held on January 29 was also mired in paper leak controversy.
  
  “Such rackets are impossible without the involvement of the commission’s staff,” said a senior Patna police officer on the condition of anonymity. Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj, when asked, said investigations were on from different angles.
  
  Before both the exams, Patna police busted two gangs involved in leaking BSSC’s competitive exam question papers and providing assistance to the candidates appearing for that. Five racketeers were arrested a day before January 29 examination. The gang was also involved in running an Army recruitment racket. Patna police on Saturday arrested Pawan Kumar, Vipin Kumar and Navneet Kumar from   under Agamkuan police station area on the charge of trying to leak BSSC question papers. Microphones, bluetooth and several other devices used to help the candidates were seized.
  
  Police had also seized a diary with names and roll numbers of several candidates who had paid money to the gang. The SSP said the names of some candidates who had cleared the exams were also mentioned in the diary.
