THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister   has assured the parents of   Pranoy, a first-year BTech student of Nehru College of Engineering, Pampady, who died after alleged harassment by the college management, that the government would take all possible legal measures to prevent the culprits from going scot-free.

 The chief minister, who met Jishnu’s mother Mahija, accompanied by his father Ashok and uncle  , at his office here on Wednesday, said that the government would leave no stones unturned to bring the culprits to book.
 
 “Jishnu’s death has paved the way for a strong intervention to end malpractices and harassment of students in self-financing educational institutions. The government will go ahead with strong measures,” he posted on his Facebook page immediately after the meeting.
 
 Pinarayi Vijayan’s Facebook post also said the government was fully aware of Jishnu’s parents’ irreparable loss. 
 
 “The government has already taken all legal measures with regard to Jishnu’s death. His parents came to meet me today and I have assured them that the government will continue doing whatever possible to punish the guilty,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Jishnu’s parents, after their meeting with the chief minister, told reporters that they were happy with the assurance given by him.
 
 “One of our main demands to the government was to move the Supreme Court to cancel the college owner P Krishna Das’ anticipatory bail, which he secured from the high court. The CM said that the government has already moved the apex court,” they said.
 
 In a memorandum submitted to the CM, Jishnu’s parents raised five demands, including a quick verification against DGP  , ‘who committed dereliction of duty by acting in favour of Das when the high court considered his bail application’. 
 
 Jishnu’s parents also clarified that there has been some mix-up in the news reports which said they did not want the CM to visit them at their home until the accused were in police custody. 
 
 “Jishnu always held Pinarayi Vijayan in high esteem as a political leader. We decided to come and meet him here to eliminate all such misunderstandings,” they said.
 
