PATNA: Dissatisfied with the answers given by the government on questions related to   procurement and online registration of farmers in the state,   legislators created an uproar and trooped into the well of Bihar legislative council during question hour on Wednesday. 

 Due to ruckus and sloganeering, the House was adjourned 30 minutes before the lunch break on the question raised by Lal Babu Prasad and Krishna Kumar Singh of BJP. 
 
 Chief minister Nitish Kumar also reached the council just before the adjournment and expressed concern over the behaviour of opposition. He asked the deputy chairman Haroon Rashid to give ruling party ministers extra time to complete their answers. “Ministers here are ready to answer all the questions, but they too need sufficient time to complete their answers,” said Nitish.
 
 Opposition leader Sushil Kumar Modi said online registration of farmers, which started on November 15 last year, should have actually started earlier to provide benefit to the farmers. “Due to delay, the famers are forced to sell their paddy to the middlemen,” he said. 
 
 Modi said though this year there is bumper paddy production of around 90 lakh metric tonne, the government managed to purchase only 10 lakh metric tonne of paddy against the target of 30 lakh metric tonne set by the Centre. “With hardly 15 working days left now, what would the state government do? When the target was announced by the central government, the state government claimed that it would cross it. However, meagre purchase of paddy shows the failure of Bihar government,” he said.
 
 Cooperative minister Alok Mehta said the opposition was making false claims and raising a baseless issue. Mehta said the government was working for farmers’ benefit and claimed Bihar was the only state where paddy was procured even from landless tillers. “Around 40% of landless tillers have benefited. The government is also in the process of arranging dryers for the moisture laden paddy,” he added.
 
 Earlier, opposition chief whip Rajnish Kumar demanded the adjournment of the House over non-payment of salary to over 60,000 teachers and staff of 204 unaided degree colleges and 507 intermediate colleges. Opposition members also expressed concern over delay in payment of salary to the university teachers and staff.
 
 
