NEW DELHI: As ace   and his estranged partner   
  amicably through negotiations, the Supreme Court on Monday asked Paes to exhibit   also to bring the three year legal battle to an end in an out of court settlement.

 A bench of Justice Arun Mishra and Amitava Roy asked Paes and Pillai, who were personally present in court, to make a fresh attempt to reach out to a mutually acceptable solution of their dispute by holding negotiations. It had earlier directed the couple to go for SC mediation centre to settle their dispute but the mediation proceedings, which went on for six days, failed and the matter was again referred to the court for adjudication.
 
 “There is no dispute which cannot be resolved through talks. Make a fresh attempt to come to mutually acceptable settlement. These matters should better be settled through negotiations. The parties have to be reasonable in their demands and they should follow give and take policy to amicable resolve the dispute,” the bench said.
 
 “Games in real life should also be played with the same sportsmanship spirit. A sports person should exhibit the same spirit in real life also,” the bench told.
 
 Agreeing with court’s suggestion, senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi and lawyer Gaurang Kanth, appearing for Peas, agreed to give a fresh try for out of court settlement.. The court then asked the lawyers to take Paes and Pillai to their chambers where they would talk for settlement. After holding a brief negotiations, the parties sought more time from court to finalize the nitty-gritty of their settlement and the bench thereafter adjourned the hearing for May first week.
 
 The couple is locked in a legal battle over maintenance and custody of their 11-year-old daughter since 2014 when Pillai had filed a case of domestic violence and harassment against Leander Paes and his father in a magistrate's court in Mumbai. She had sought maintenance but her plea was opposed by Paes who claimed that he was not married to Rhea and hence, she was not his wife.
 
 While hearing an appeal filed by Pillai challenging order of   which had refused to grant her relief in matrimonial dispute, the apex court on January 13 had asked the couple to go for mediation. The proceedings in SC mediation centre started from January 31 and went for six days but the couple failed to resolve their dispute amicably.
 
 After seeking divorce from actor Sanjay Dutt, Rhea had moved in with Paes and was in a live-in relationship with him. Paes claimed that he was not married to Rhea and hence, she was not his wife.
 
 In June last year, the Bombay high court had also asked the couple to sit down together and work out an amicable solution to their dispute. However, they failed to arrive at a settlement.
 
 Pillai approached the apex court after HC refused to stay the proceedings in a family court while admitted her plea to adjudicate whether her relationship with Paes could be considered as that of a husband and wife. She pleaded the apex court in her petition that the trial court proceedings should be stayed till the status of her relationship with Paes was decided.
 
