PATNA: Chief minister (CM)   on Friday asked the disaster management department to set up a network of   in the state to prevent   due to  .

 Addressing a workshop on ‘State platform for disaster risk reduction’ at Adhiveshan Bhavan in the state secretariat, the CM asked officials of disaster management department to procure the technology and equipment for lightning alert system, which is already being used in Andhra Pradesh. Sources said Andhra Pradesh has collaborated with a US-based firm, Earth Networks, for using its technologies to set up the lightning alert system.
 
 “I have been told that lightning alert system, which gives warnings around half-an-hour in advance, is already being used in Andhra Pradesh. The disaster management department has been asked to use the technology in Bihar and funds for the same would be allotted from CM’s Relief Fund,” Nitish said. 
 
 As per recent studies, Bihar stands at sixth position in the country in terms of receiving maximum number of lightning strikes. Death by lightning is a serious issue in the state. On May 28, 29 people were killed in the state due to lightning. According to data available with the state disaster management department, lightning has claimed lives of at least 156 people in the state this year. Last year, lightning toll in the state was 106.
 
 “Deaths due to lightning strikes have increased sharply in Bihar. We are working towards introducing a lightning alert system to prevent fatalities. The early warnings would be circulated to officials and elected representatives in the districts and villages, so that they could caution locals accordingly,” said Nitish.
 
 State disaster management department launched an SMS- based alert system on May 20 for sending weather-related alerts issued by India Meteorological Department (IMD) to people in order to ensure preventive measures. Senior DMD officials said around 3.7 crore subscribers of telecom operators Airtel, BSNL and Reliance Jio in the state receive the messages at present. The alerts include warnings on cyclones, storms, heat wave and cold wave.
 
 Apart from early lightning alert system, the CM also spoke at length about the Kosi floods in 2008 and the steps taken to mitigate the damages. He said the road construction department has done a survey to identify accident-prone roads in the state and steps would be taken to prevent fatalities in road accidents.
 
 
