TRICHY: National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development ( ) will study the ground reality regarding the drought in the state and seek ideas on the facilities required for  . In this regard, district collector K Rajamani released a compilation of water resources maps brought out by the bank’s Jaldoots (water ambassadors) for all the 404 villages in Trichy district here on Saturday. 

 Nambard chief general manager, Chennai, S N A Jinnah said the bank had initiated water campaigns in the light of the agrarian distress owing to uncertain monsoon, erratic rainfall and drought in 1 lakh villages covering 200 districts in the country. The main objective of the campaign was to create mass awareness about the need for conservation through efficient use of water with available technologies by the rural community. An attempt was also being made to create community ownership in water harvesting, saving, management and recycling. He presented the action plan to the district collector on the occasion. 
 
 AGM at Nabard Trichy S   said that the Krishi Jaldoots would spend a day in each of the 404 village panchayats for awareness creation on water conservation, rejuvenation and recycling and for carrying out water resource mapping. The campaign encouraged villagers to plant 3,000 saplings, do bush clearance and take up recharging of defunct borewells through artificial recharge structures. It also involved participation of the village panchayats, local agriculture department, SHGs/JLGs, farmer producer companies, farmers’ clubs, cooperative institutions, other village level institutions and community at large.
 
 Jinnah said that the campaign was launched in 6,500 villages covering 16 districts in   through the system of Master Trainers and Krishi Jaldoots at the village level. The state was one of the most water-stressed ones in the country where 95% of surface water and 85% of ground water had been exploited and with no perennial river, except Thamirabarani. 
 
 Nabard has proposed to support the state with a kitty of Rs.3000 cr over five years for Kudimaramathu scheme, which will help rehabilitate 41,000 system tanks. To address the issue of marketing, the bank propose to integrate the Regulated Market Committees on Unified National Agricultural Marketing platform with an assistance of Rs 400 crore, said Jinnah.
 
 District collector Rajamani said that action points drawn with people’s participation will be examined by the concerned departments and appropriate action taken by them. Under Kudimaramathu, rehabilitation works have been carried out to the extent of Rs 5 crore during last year. Similarly, works to the extent of Rs 9 crore have been earmarked this year, he said. For the state as a whole, Rs 300 crore has been earmarked for carrying out repairs and rehabilitation work in small lakes, ponds, channels, sluices etc. Check dams are going to be built before northeast monsoon and an amount of Rs 13 crore has been earmarked for the same through district rural development agency, he said. He requested the NGOs present to make Save Water Campaign a mass movement. He stated that awareness creation must follow action on the ground and added that the district administration will partner Nabard in its efforts.
 
 
