CHENNAI: Gone are the days where   used to throng schools and brave the   surrounding the   as they tried to see what marks they scored.

 The introduction of declaring results through SMS by the Tamil Nadu government was welcomed by several parents who felt it was much easier experience for their kids.
 
 At one point of time, evening newspapers ran special editions so that results could be published at noon.
 
 Though results have for years been released at the school education directorate in the morning itself, one had to wait for the special editions to merely give the registration number of candidates.
 
 Those who didn't find their numbers were left crestfallen, as it meant failure in the examination. There were also instances of newspapers missing out numbers by mistake or oversight, leading to suicide by the students concerned. That a clarification would be carried the next day hardly mattered in such cases.
 
 It would be about a week's wait for marksheet distrib uted at the respective schools.
 
 Then came the online portal facility by the directorate where parents and students could check their marks soon after the results were out.This not only made it a breeze for many students but the online facility also drastically cut queues at schools. Instead,  's became the go-to for many students in semi-urban areas.
 
 However, the graduation to online mode too has been accompanied with its own set of troubles like connectivity and online traffic.
 
 This year, however, the decision of the state government to provide Class XII results through SMS went one step ahead to reduce any anguish and helped students get their marks with a simple message.
 
 Less than 10 minutes after the officials unveiled the results in Chennai, most parents received details of the marks on their registered mobile numbers -a neat break-up of marks in theory and practicals and total.
 
 “Getting to see students get these details without any fuss was a pleasant experience for all of us,“ said Yogesh, a parent who was all smiles after he got his daughter's results on his phone.
 
