MARGAO: The   (SGDMA) has identified about 50 structures across the district as “structurally unsafe” under the   (SFDRR). However, in the absence of any formulated plan of action by the state government with regards to the unsafe structures, the district administration authorities are found wanting in mitigating the risk associated with the structures.

 The move follows the ministry of home affairs (MHA) communiqué outlining the tasks of the district administration of each state under the Sendai framework.
 
 Listing out priorities, the MHA has directed the district collector to sensitise heads of all local bodies, MLAs/MPs about the importance of disaster risk in our lives. The collector is further required to create a “damage database” of the potential risks in a natural calamity.
 
 “We have identified several structures in South Goa, numbering around 50, as unsafe under the Sendai framework. As most of them are privately-owned buildings or structures, they cannot just be demolished,” additional collector II, Johnson Fernandes, told TOI. 
 
 India has been a signatory to the Sendai framework. Under this framework, signed as a part of a global initiative in Sendai, Japan, in March 2015, India is committed to achieve four priorities and seven targets by 2030.
 
 With a view to strengthening disaster risk governance, the MHA guidelines states that the district magistrate is required to ask local civic bodies to strictly follow building bylaws, and see to it that structures are earthquake and flood resistant, with flood and earthquake prone zones clearly identified. 
 
 The MHA said that 10% of all funds at district level must be directed to schemes that will help in disaster risk reduction.
 
 “Private builders in the district should be called and sensitized about the need to construct buildings which are able to withstand any natural disaster. Training of masons/contractors should be held at the district level to teach them how to make disaster resilient buildings,” the MHA guidelines further states. 
 
 With a view to enhancing disaster preparedness for effective response, the MHA has mandated that district collectors should call a meeting of disaster management authorities every three months and discuss preparedness. 
 
 While asking the district magistrates to prepare standard drills for responding to cyclones/floods/tsunamis, etc, the MHA has stressed on providing training to village level workers “to promote disaster sensitivity.” 
 
 Ronald Martins, consumer activist, speaking to TOI, pitched for a “robust” disaster management plans.
 
 “The Sanvordem incident is a wake-up call. Disasters can happen any time, and the government authorities should be prepared with a response plan. The Sendai framework is an opportunity to start from scratch to make the districts disaster resilient,” he said. 
 
