NAGPUR: Presenting a sweet, little love story was the play ‘Mann Chimba Jhale’. Staged on Monday during the   festival organized to mark Hanuman jayanti, the play is about two childhood friends who fall in love with each other. 

 The drama festival has been organized by Shri Hanuman Mandir Panch Committee and   at Shrikrishna Nagar, Wathoda. The play was directed by Atul Shepe. “I decided to direct the play as soon as I read the script. The play offers the audience a light comedy and romance and I enjoy working on these themes very much,” he said. 
 
 The two main characters of the play are Sachin and his friend Rachana, played by actors   and   respectively. Both the actors performed with ease and conviction. 
 
 The story was a simple one, but one which resonated with many. Sachin and Rachna are childhood friends who have known each other for a long time. They both share a very happy bond of friendship, sharing little secrets, joys and sadness. As they grow, both of them develop feelings for each other and eventually fall in love. 
 
 But even as both the leads of the play share a mutual affection and love for each other, both are hesitant to share their feelings with each other. Finally, after sometime, Rachna decides to take matters in her hand had starts giving hints to Sachin, who is apparently oblivious to Rachna’s feelings. 
 
 Rachna uses the age old trick of telling Sachin that she has fallen in love with a boy, and even goes on to tell him that her love interest’s name also happens to be Sachin. Saddened by this knowledge, Sachin decides to be a good friend and help Rachna out. He asks for the other Sachin’s phone number so he can talk to him and let him know about Rachna’s feelings. It is only after Rachna gives him his own number that Sachin realizes that Rachna has been talking about falling in love with him all the time and the play ends on that happy note. 
 
 “I enjoyed the play very much. I especially liked the character of Sachin. He made us laugh and feel emotional at the same time,” said Utpal Saraf, a member of the audience. The play is written by Pravin Khapre. 
 
 
