BENGALURU: India is water-stressed and moving towards what’s technically termed “water scarcity condition” with a majority of the country accessing water that is contaminated with one or the other pollutant, or not having access to it at all. Per capita water availability less than 1,700 cubic metre is considered water stressed and the present number in India is 1,545 cubic metre. 

 Water resources ministry predicts water availability could plunge to 1,341 cubic metres in 2025 and as low as 1,140 by 2050. This scenario mirrors water-scarcity condition where per-person availability is less than 1,000 cubic metres.
 
 With Met department forecasting a harsher summer, India can sustain only one drought season, given its live storage, says water ministry data. The bleak condition is largely a consequence of over-exploitation of water sources and pollution over the years. With 56% of India's population relying on groundwater, the government has been encouraging borewells. The government has in stalled 9.36 lakh hand pumps in four years, besides thousands by citizens.No wonder, then, that India leads in extraction of water.
 
 The ministry of drinking water and sanitation has another disturbing fact: water in 320 of the country's 640 districts is contaminated by chemicals like fluoride, arsenic, and heavy metals like chromium and lead. Contaminated water affects 6 lakh habitations directly. Five diseases caused by polluted water have claimed more than 18,000 lives in seven years.
 
 SS Hegde, a senior scientist with the ministry of water resources, told TOI: “Pollution is caused by nature and by human activities. Chemicals such as fluoride and arsenic are largely pollutants caused by nature; some industries, though, produce these chemicals. But the water problem is caused largely by overexploitation. Some of these chemicals cannot be treated with available technologies.“
 
 Geologist   said: “Some 3-4 decades ago, geologists prescribed borewells must not be deeper than 30 metres as they otherwise would hit residue of chemicals and metals.“
 
 Hegde agreed with Reddy's observations, and said: “A survey conducted by my team in Chennai sampled water from 300 wells, and found water from wells that breached the 30-metre depth recorded more contamination.“
 
 Data from the  , which monitors surface-water quality at 1,600 stations, said 55% of the samples met the criteria (of the desired dissolved oxygen level).But 44% of the samples were polluted by coliform (a bacteria that could trigger health hazards), and 60% by faecal coliform.
 
 “No river is safe to drink or bathe in. We are responsible for this situation.Groundwater, too, is in a bad state. The solution is `conserve rainwater',“ said water conservationist  , popularly known as waterman of India.
 
