RANCHI: Rifts have emerged in the opposition parties in the state with two major parties accusing Jharkhand Mukti Morcha ( ) for continued disruptions of the assembly's budget session over amendments to the Chhotanagpur Tenancy (CNT) and Santhal Pargana Tenancy (SPT) Acts. 

 The Babulal Marandi-led Jharkhand Vikas Morcha-Prajatantrik (JVM-P) and Congress on Monday came out in open and blamed the tribal party of not allowing the assembly to function. 
 
 As JMM protests washed out the pre-lunch proceedings of Monday's assembly proceedings, JVM-P legislator Pradeep Yadav told mediapersons that JMM was working hand-in-glove with the BJP to "choke voices of the people and halting matters of importance". Yadav said: "We want the house to function so that important matters concerning the people are debated and the chief minister does not go on taking unilateral decisions." 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Jharkhand State Pradesh Congress Committee (JSPCC) president and Lohardaga MLA Sukhdeo Bhagat also said that it was important for the assembly to function. "We are against the amendments to the land Acts and want them withdrawn, but the assembly should not be disrupted," he said, adding that senior Congress leaders, including Alamgir Alam and Manoj Yadav, who had raised their voice against the amendments, were all for the smooth functioning of the house. 
 
 Chief minister  , who on Monday accused JMM of adopting "double standards" inside the assembly, later said he was "disappointed with the continued disruptions of the house". Das said: "Those who are disrupting the house are insulting the people's mandate." . 
 
 Defending his party's position on the issue, leader of opposition Hemant Soren said, "Being the biggest opposition party, it is JMM's rights to protest against such a grave issue. We have been protesting against the amendments ever since the bill was passed in the assembly."
 
 JMM legislators rushed to the well of the assembly with placards minutes after Monday's proceedings began. Speaker Dinesh Oraon adjourned the house till 12:45pm. The JMM camp, however, said it will continue its protests. 
 
 The assembly witnessed some business in the post-lunch session with the house passing the Rs 1,80,158.68 crore budget of the state agriculture, dairy and animal husbandry department. BJP MLA Radhakrishna Kishore proposed that private doctors should have a definite fee structure, an issue that the house agreed to debate later.
 
 
