JALANDHAR: A probe ordered by the health department into the case of 35   testing positive for   (HCV) found no fault in the working of the blood bank in the  . It recommended that nucleic acid test (NAT) method be used in the blood bank for testing the donated blood.

 The probe noted that there was already a high incidence of HCV in Punjab as compared to the national average and there remained a window period of 66 days with ELISA technique being used for testing viruses (HIV, HCV and hepatitis B) during which these could escape undetected. The NAT method could bring down the window period to four days. Health department officials revealed that in view of the findings here, there could be high prevalence of HCV among thalassemia patients across the state as similar techniques were being used in all blood banks.
 
 The probe was ordered by the health department after the recent tests on patients having blood transfusion at the local civil hospital. It is learnt that these patients were never earlier tested for transmittable viruses and these started in January after a Delhi-based NGO tied up with the Thalassemic Children’s Welfare Association, Jalandhar, in this regard. The inquiry conducted by senior medical officer Chanjeev Singh noted that since January, 429 blood units were given to thalassemia patients. The probe mentioned that all blood units were properly tested as per the standard operating procedures and the patients were also getting blood transfusion from multiple sources, so it could not be pointed out that from where and when did they get the infection.
 
 In the civil hospital blood bank double tests were being performed (second test with an alternate technique in front of the parents of the patients) after blood bank officials came to know about the first HCV positive tests. Officials revealed that NAT method was not very expensive but still the top officials of the health department did not take any steps to start it despite high prevalence of HCV among blood donors in Punjab.
 
 Medical superintendent Dr K S Bawa said that the probe into the episode was complete and he would be sending the report to state headquarters. Meanwhile, director of health services, Punjab, H S Bali did not take repeated calls. 
 
 National average of HCV 
 
 The data collected from blood banks from across the state suggests that incidence of HCV prevalence among blood donors is more than three times higher than national average. “National average is 0.4% while in Punjab the average prevalence is 1.4% for the last couple of years,” said Dr  , joint director, blood transfusion services, Punjab.
 
 59.4% kids test positive
 
 A report submitted by blood transfusion officer   cited a study conducted on thalassemia children in Punjab, which found that prevalence of HCV among them was as high as 59.4%. Officials of the health department revealed that HCV prevalence in patients on dialysis was also very high in Punjab as they are also dependent upon regular blood transfusions.
 
 
