MUMBAI: The Securities and Exchange Board of India is yet to approve IDFC MD  's appointment as the CEO of National Stock Exchange ( ) as it is concerned about his other role — managing the affairs of  , the richest cricket body.
 
  The markets regulator has asked for clarifications about Limaye’s role and is reviewing the application, people close to the development said. It believes he may not be able to do justice as the head of the country’s biggest stock exchange if he continues in his SC-appointed role as a member of the four-person panel managing the affairs of Board of Control for Cricket in India.
  
  “Both organisations are facing a crisis, so   is looking at whether he (Limaye) would be able to give his undivided attention to NSE,” said a person familiar with the development. In January this year, the apex court chose Limaye along with Vinod Rai, former comptroller and auditor general (CAG), prominent historian   and former cricketer Diana Edulji to implement the Lodha panel recommendations.
  
 NSE declined to comment for the story. The exchange is believed to have clarified twice to the markets regulator on its choice for CEO. A detailed clarification was given to Sebi some days back. It again responded to a second set of questions on Monday.
  
  The exchange has told the regulator that Limaye’s role at the cricket board is almost like a non-executive board position and that he won’t be involved in the day-to-day functions. “Limaye has already explained his role at BCCI to the NSE board saying that it is only about giving policy direction and supervising through the CEO,” said another person close to the development.
  
  Last month, Sebi chairman Ajay Tyagi told reporters at a press conference post its board meeting that the regulator would soon take a call on whether to approve NSE’s nomination of Limaye. “We had sought some additional information from NSE on his candidature. These were on three to four aspects.
  
  The exchange has replied to us a couple of days back and we would be able to take a call on it soon,” Tyagi had said.
  
  Sebi’s reluctance to confirm the appointment puts NSE in a difficult situation. It is combating charges of allowing some brokers unfair access in algorithmic trading. The regulator is investigating the issue. A proposed $1-billion IPO may be delayed till the charges are cleared up.
  
  “NSE doesn’t want to list before the allegations related to colocation are resolved. So the IPO may take some time,” Tyagi had said. The exchange had filed an IPO application in late December and is awaiting regulatory approval.
  
  Limaye was selected to succeed Chitra Ramkrishna who left NSE due to personal reasons on December 2. NSE shareholders approved his appointment on March 7.
