AURANGABAD: The municipal administration’s recent announcement that it would make elaborate arrangements to mark birth anniversary of Dr B R Ambedkar seems to have failed to impress the dalit corporators who on Sunday expressed dissatisfaction over the on-going preparations. With just four days left for the annual event, they highlighted that over 40% of the city’s streetlights are defunct and some of the roads leading to Bhatkal gate are in a bad shape. 

 MIM corporator Vikas Yedke told TOI that the he has been demanding the municipal body to repair all the faulty streetlights between   and Bhatkal gate as the main procession will pass through the patch. “Last year, the authorities could not repair all the streetlights which caused inconvenience to the citizens. We do not want the authorities to repeat it,” he said. 
 
 Yedke said that the municipal body should have begun the preparation at least one week before. ”But till Sunday, I have not seen any noticeable work going on,” he added. 
 
  corporator   said that nearly half of the city’s high mask lights are faulty. “The authorities should have repaired it keeping in mind the celebrations. “Thousands of followers of Dr Ambedkar will be arriving from different parts of the region to take part in the mega procession. The authorities are well aware that the celebrations will continue till late in the evening and thus we want the civic body to take special care of streetlights,” he said. 
 
 In addition, Gaikwad also demanded the authorities to make lighting arrangements near all the   and clean the surroundings. “It is a time consuming task which should have started by now. People visit these places right from morning to pay tributes to the architect of the Indian constitution,” he said. 
 
 On Thursday, Sikander Ali, Aurangabad Municipal Corporation’s executive engineer said that a meeting of all the concerned officers was held recently wherein municipal commissioner   reviewed the preparation work. “We are repairing streetlights at strategic locations and improving civic amenities at other places. Sanitary workers have also been asked to clean the streets. Besides, special arrangements are being done near Bhatkal gate,” he said.
 
