PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar’s JD(U) has the highest income among the three Bihar regional parties over the last 11 financial years since 2004-05. However, the party on Sunday asserted that its income did not contain any “ill-gotten money”.
 
  The   (ADR) on Sunday released its report on the known and unknown sources of income of the JD(U), RJD and the   (LJP) active in Bihar. Their respective total income was computed on the basis of their accounted income over the last 11 financial years, beginning 2004-05 up to 2014-15.
  
  The ADR computed their income on the basis of their respective income tax returns and statements filed with the  . The combined income of the three parties from their known and unknown sources during the 11-year period was Rs83.36 crore, including Rs54.12 crore of the JD(U), followed by Rs22.52 crore of the RJD and Rs6.73 crore of the LJP.
  
  At a time when the electoral reforms and maintenance of transparency with regard to the income of political parties have been the buzzword in national and regional political circles, Nitish, who is also JD(U) national president, has chorused with others in the political class for the need for such reforms, including the need that political parties to put their sources of income in public domain.
  
  Further, there has been exchange of general and specific allegations made by the aspirants seeking tickets of some political parties to contest the assembly or parliamentary elections -- like even with regard to the elections to the assemblies of five states (including UP, Punjab and Uttarakhand), to be held in February-March this year -- that the tickets were sold.
  
  When pointed out the income, JD(U) state president and Rajya Sabha member   said, “We file our income tax returns every year. The income does not contain any ill-gotten money.”
  
  Incidentally, the share of income accruing to the JD(U) from the unknown sources is also highest among the three political parties. Its total income from the unknown sources pertaining to the same period was Rs38.78 crore, while its income from the known sources stood at Rs14.26 crore and from other known sources of income at Rs1.08 crore.
  
  Comparatively, the corresponding figures with respect to the RJD are Rs5.8 crore, Rs6.25 crore and Rs10.46 crore. The same for the LJP were Rs4.87 crore, Rs1.76 crore and Rs0.1 crore.
