HYDERABAD: With the daily power consumption crossing 8,240 MW, Telangana is witnessing an unprecedented rise in the demand for power. The figures indicate trouble in the days to come.
The Rabi season has also added to the steep increase in daily demand, forcing power officials to go for more purchases. The Telangana   is expecting the power consumption to touch 10,000 MW in the coming months, with the rise in temperatures.
 
 Though officials said they are prepared to meet the peak demand of up to 10,000 MW in summer, facts from on the ground tell a different story . Several colonies in the outskirts of the city are already experiencing frequent tripping of power supply . Power shut down for more than one hour has become common in rural areas of the districts.
 
 However, officials maintained that there was no power cut in the state and in Hyderabad.They blamed local technical issues for the frequent tripping and instructed field engineers to attend to the complaints.
 
 Of late, people in Hyderabad have started experiencing tripping of power supply at regular intervals, forcing citizens to lodge complaints with the call centre. “We have received about 6,000 complaints of power tripping in the last 24 ho urs and our field staff have attended to them,“ said sources in the energy department.
 
 Surprisingly, Telangana po wer discoms say there is increase in power usage even in rural areas. With changing lifestyles and advent of air-conditioners and water heaters in villages,   has increased significantly . “At present we are supplying 158 million units of power every day to meet the demand. If the trend continues like this, we have to buy more power from other states,“ said a senior official of Transco. Till now, the Transco has been able to supply power without much problem. But road ahead looks rough.
 
 Experts said that Telangana discoms will have to continue to buy power from private power producers for a year more as 4x270 mw power plant at Bhadradri and 5x800 mw at Yadadri have run into National Green tribunal block. Though the environment ministry recently gave green signal to the Bhadradri plant with a rider that the project should be completed by Dec 2017, works need to be expedited.
 
 Even the   transmission line, for the all important 1,000 mw power to be fired from Chattisgarh, is yet to be completed. The Chattisgarh power set will give relief to the discoms, which are currently shelling out huge monies to give uninterrupted power.
 
