MUMBAI: Baba Ramdev's Patanjali is fighting the foreign FMCGs by adopting a very cost effective media strategy that focuses on using news channels to advertise, using Baba Ramdev's personal credibility, and by highlighting the natural positioning of its products. Notwithstanding the free publicity that   gets on various TV channels, in 2016 alone, Patanjali Ayurved inserted as many as 1.14 million advertisements across television channels, as per data from viewership measurement agency  .
 
  Consider this: Patanjali advertisements were displayed on TV channels for 7,221 hours across 161 channels. That translates into an average of 19 hours 43 minutes of   time every day.
  
  Interestingly, Patanjali is the fastest growing   company in India. Within two years of its scale up, it has already crossed revenues of Rs 5,000 crore and the company claims it will end the current fiscal with revenues upwards of Rs 10,000 crore.
  
  It’s not only a high voltage media campaign, but media experts credit Patanjali’s success to its marketing strategy as well. “They have a very bold strategy. By its nature, FMCG is not an easy business and requires massive brand building as well as wide distribution. Its distribution is better than what most people thought, and the promoter himself is the biggest brand ambassador, with a huge following,” said Ashish Bhasin, chairman and CEO South Asia at Dentsu Aegis Network.
  
  Experts said that Patanjali has got two insights right, which has helped the brand scale up fast. “First, is the general tendency among the Indian people to go towards natural/herbal products with heritage and Baba Ramdev epitomises that trend. Second, is the rise of nationalistic pride and patriotism, which has definitely helped Patanjali. It is the perfect brand fit,” Bhasin explained.
  
  But Patranjali Ayurved thinks about media differently. “We don’t just advertise, we run informative campaigns,” said SK Tijarawala, spokesperson for Patanjali Ayurved.
  
  Patanjali's spends on advertising was just 8-10% compared to what FMCG majors spend normally. “We work on three basic principles set by Swami ji (Ramdev) -- world class quality, lowest price, and that all profits are to be given away to charity. Even in our campaigns, we don’t spend money on celebrities. Swamiji talks to consumers directly. Our entire advertising and marketing spend is around a mere Rs 300 crore,” Tijarawala said.
  
 
  So how does Patanjali get so much bang for the buck? Interestingly, 84% of total advertisements that Patanjali aired in 2016 played on news channels, a strategy which media planners say has helped Baba create brand pull amongst traders and viewers alike.
  Basabdatta Chowdhury, national COO at Publicis Groupe-owned media buying firm Starcom India, pointed out that Patanjali has entered into the top 10 advertisers on TV, which is a big statement, considering that it was a non-existing brand a couple of years back. She added that targeting news genre has helped the company. “It was a very smart move to go for news genre, which otherwise had insignificant FMCG presence. Today, Patanjali has over 70% presence in the news genre in the category. They couldn’t have achieved the same in the Hindi general entertainment or movie categories.”
  
  Anand Chakravarthy, managing partner at Maxus India, said that by advertising heavily on news channels, which is viewed by many traders, it is creating trade confidence. “Baba Ramdev also has massive following and he elicits credibility. It’s a situation where consumers are asking for the products, and retailers are in turn reaching out to stockists and distributors. It's a pull strategy versus push strategy that many FMCG majors follow.”
  According to a recent survey by Edelweiss Securities, natural positioning and attractive pricing have helped Patanjali wrest market share from players such as Dabur, Colgate and HUL. According to the survey, 83% users prefer Patanjali products due to their natural positioning, while 38% because of attractive pricing.
  
  AS many as 91% respondents find natural products better and 67% are ready to pay a premium for them, indicating that natural and, especially affordable naturals, should remain the key focus area for consumer goods companies to prevent market share loss and achieve better growth.
  
  Though Patanjali has gained largely in honey, ghee and toothpaste up until now, other players in shampoo, biscuits and soaps fear the risk of losing market share to the yoga guru.
  
  
  
  
