NEW DELHI: You would soon know how liveable your city is. Taking a leaf out of international practice of rating cities on liveability, India is all set to introduce its own liveability index.

 Beginning with 100  , the liveability index would rank all Indian cities on 77 parameters including how they fare in terms of grievance redressal of citizens, pollution, availability of water and power, online citizen services, upkeep of historical buildings, increase in tourist footfalls, crime rate, extent of crimes recorded against women, children and elderly, availability of traffic surveillance system and education. The liveability index, which would be unveiled at an urban development ministry workshop on Tuesday, would chart a city’s progress against various standards under four   – institutional, social, economic and physical.
 
 These would in turn be divided into 15 sub-categories of standards and take the form of 15 category indexes, which will together contribute to a common City Liveability Index.
  
 These indices will be used to create a ranking framework for all cities, facilitating a competitive environment amongst cities to improve their liveability. Asenior urban development ministry official told ET, “Sub-indices will help cities to identify and improve upon particular areas of deficiency for improving their indices and comparative inter-city rankings. This competitive approach would help in improving urban infrastructure in the cities.”
 
 Ascientific formula has been developed giving percentage weightage to the four categories of reforms. Maximum weightage (40%) would be given to physical infrastructure, which would include water, energy, waste water, solid waste, housing,   space, mobility and pollution indices.
 
 This would be followed by governance index (30%). Social index (20%) would include health index, education, identity and culture index and security index. Economic index (10%) would include unemployment rate, annual increase in number of registered offices and commercial establishments and other indices reflecting the health of city economy.
 
