KOLKATA: The   bicentenary celebrations, beginning on Thursday, has already seen a   of more than 1,000   for the   scheduled on January 20. 

 “For the alumni who have failed to register, there will be a live screening outside the Derozio Hall on the university campus of the Founder’s Day event, which will include speeches by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and President Pranab Mukerjee,” said secretary of the alumni association Bivas Chaudhuri.
 
 The celebration will begin with the ‘global education summit’. The Dipak Banerjee Memorial Lecture will be delivered by Nobel Laureate Jean Tirole, chairperson, board of Jean-Jacques Laffont Foundation at the Toulouse School of Economics. Nobel Laureate Amartya Sen will also be present at the event. 
 
 The event will also see a host of lectures delivered by T V Mohandas Pai, chairperson of Manipal Global Education, followed by lectures from Sugata Bose, Gardiner Professor of History, Havard University, USA and a special lecture from Romila Thapar, professor emeritus, Jawaharlal Nehru University and Wang Gungwu, professor from National University of Singapore.
 
 The ceremonial inauguration will be held at Prinsep Ghat in the presence of chief minister Mamata Banerjee and governor Keshari Nath Tripathi.
 
 Some of the other speakers on the following days are chair professor Animesh Ray from Keck Graduate Institute, CalTech, Vivek Kumar, secretary, higher education, D Balasubramanian, former president of Indian Academy of Sciences, David Richardson, molecular ecologist, VC, University of East Anglia, Mammen Chandy, clinical haematologist, director, Tata Medical Centre, Kolkata, Mriganka Sur, Newton Professor of Neuroscience, director, Simons Centre for the Social Brain, MIT.
 
 Speakers on January 10 will include Nobel Laureate Muhammad Yunus and Pranab Bardhan, professor of Graduate School, department of economics, University of California at Berkeley. There will be a conversation with author Amitav Ghosh as well.
 
 President Pranab Mukherjee and former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh will address the students on campus on January 20.
 
 On January 15, a heritage walk from the house of alumnus Swami Vivekananda on Bidhan Sarani to Presidency University and then to Coffee House has been planned. The walk, which will start around 10:30am, will be flagged off by Swami Purnatmananda, secretary of Ramakrishna Mission Swami Vivekananda’s Ancestral House and Cultural Centre. Thereafter, a lunch will be hosted for the alumni by vice-chancellor Anuradha Lohia at Coffee House.
 
 On January 20, a keynote address on the 200th Founder's Day meeting by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is scheduled at noon in Derozio Hall and at 5pm, the bicentennial address will be delivered by Pranab Mukherjee. 
 
 A series of events have been lined up for the rest of the year as well.
 
 
