Obesity is a serious problem across the world, with increasing risk of  . Recently, there is change in the name of disease by the   (AACE), as ABCD- adiposity-based chronic disease. This indicates harmful effects of fatty tissues in the body, and its chronicity. 

 Previous two decades had seen tripling of obesity in  , those who adopted western lifestyle. Population of the Middle East, Pacific Islands, Southeast Asia, India, and China are facing the greatest risk. As a result, the number of diabetic people in these countries are likely to increase from 84 million in 2000 to 228 million by 2030. Hence, in order to prevent the incidences of diabetes and other chronic diseases it is necessary to control obesity. 
 
 Modification of food, action in exercise, and reduction of at least 5% body weight decreases risk of diabetes by nearly 60%, following the same changes for around seven years decreases this risk by 40%. Benefits of weight loss in diabetes for glucose control are better in early diabetes stages than later. Thus, weight loss is essential and crucial step in managing diabetes. Although weight poses a burden on tissues, maintaining lost weight, bundled up with glucose levels, activity levels, will benefit in the long run.
 
 According to Finnish Diabetes Prevention Study (DPS), for the individuals who are already pre-diabetics, intensive lifestyle changes could decrease the overall risk of diabetes by 58%. These changes included a weight reduction of 5% or more, reduction of total fat intake to < 30% of total calories and increased physical activity for 4 hours per week or more. The report from the Finnish Prevention Study follow-up, an average duration of 7 years, shows a 43% reduction in risk of diabetes in people who followed this modified lifestyle. 
 
 In early stage as disease process, when insulin resistance is still prominent, weight loss will improve blood glucose levels. However, as the disease progresses and insulin deficiency becomes more prominent the weight loss may not be that helpful. In later stages of disease, you need medications or insulin and an appropriate nutritional therapy,and your first priority should be glycaemic control not weight loss.
 
 In the end, eat a healthy diet, be more physically active, and keep food records along with blood glucose records so that blood glucose levels can be kept under optimal control. Eating fewer calories and doing   improves blood glucose control and help to reduce weight.
 
 
 
 
