CHENNAI: The O Panneerselvam camp got a shot in the arm on Saturday with   acolytes and senior functionaries sidelined by   rallying behind the chief minister. Given that OPS was nominated chief ministerial candidate thrice and declared her “true follower“ by none other than for mer chief minister  , supporters say this is one of the reason they were backing him.

 The groundswell of support for Panneerselvam was evident at his Greenways Road residence with crowds getting bigger with each passing day.
 
 Former speaker P H Pandian and former ministers C Aranganayakam, C Ponnaian and K P Munusamy took on Sasikala and her family while All India MGR Mandram deputy secretary M Thavasi was embraced into the OPS camp. Old timers say they want to protect the legacy of late MGR, which was under threat from Sasikala.
 
 Former legal wing secretary and son of PH Pandian, Manoj Pandian said Sasikala had always sidelined old timers, MGR loyalists and true followers of the matinee idol and Jayalalithaa. “People who had no association with the party and who were their loyal ists were re cr uited,“ said Pandian, the former MP, who handled many sensitive cases against Jayalalithaa.
 
 E Madhusudanan, one of the first senior leaders to persuade Sasikala to take over the mantle of general secretary, said the war had begun against family politics.
 
 A day after Sasikala ousted him as   presidium chairman, the senior leader told TOI that he had mooted Sasikala for the post of general secretary for the well-being of the party. “But she has not chang ed her stand. All her family members, who were once shown the door by Amma, are spotted in her   residence now. Neither MGR nor Amma allowed family politics, but Sasikala is doing that,“ he said, throwing his weight behind Panneerselvam. Sasikala sacked him from the primary membership of the party on Friday .
 
 The Panneerselvam faction petitioned the election commission on Fri day, challenging the validity of Sasikala's elec tion, as the party bylaw mandates that one should have had continuous membership of the party for five years without any break. Sasikala, her husband, M Natarajan and 12 others were sacked by Jayalalithaa in 2011.
 
 She re-inducted her friend into the party after her public apology the party after her public apology for the family's treacherous acts.“Sasikala is corrupt and brought disrepute to Jayalalithaa's leadership. I support Panneerselvam to protect our party,“ said Aranga nayakam, another founding lead er of AIADMK.
 
 The leader, who was education minister for 10 years in the MGR cabinet, alleged that he fell out with Jayalalithaa because of Sasikala. Aranganayakam won AIADMK's first byelection in 1974 in Coimbatore West, and became headquarters secretary under MGR and Jayalalithaa later.
 
 C Ponnaiyan, another founding leader who remained in all three cabinets of MGR, said, “Panneerselvam is humble like Anna (former CM). He should take over the reins of the party and government,“ the AIADMK spokesperson said, backing Panneerselvam's claims that none of the leaders met the ailing leader in hospital.
 
 Munusamy said he was a classic example of how Sasikala sidelined the functionaries.
 
 “Panneerselvam treats everyone the same, irrespective of rank and file. But Sasikala is selfish, and eager to take over the reins.Imitating our departed leader shows her arrogance.“
 
