It's 1am, and  ,  ,   (North district), who is patrolling the deserted area, gets a call about a brawl near one of the slums there. Heading towards the spot, Niyati says, "Such late night crimes are common here, so high visibility of the police and the PCR is crucial." Last year, through a crime-mapping exercise, the   identified 44 'high crime zones' – police stations in Delhi that had a high number of crimes being reported against women, such as harassment, molestation and rape. Sarai Rohilla, one of the oldest railway stations in Delhi, is one of them.

  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 Niyati, who's been in the Delhi Police for three years, was posted in the Sarai Rohilla sub-division of the North district some months ago. Patrolling at night is done in co-ordination with the PCR, but on days when she is on night duty, she visits every police station in the area to give instructions to the beat officers and SHOs on patrolling duty. Niyati tells us, "I can't be gentle towards a man involved in a brawl outside a liquor shop. Main haath aur danda nahin chalati hoon, ab tak toh baat se hi kaam chalaaya hai. That gentle touch is needed, but it depends on who is being dealt with. Child abuse, rape and snatching incidents are quite common in this area, and hence, ensuring visibility of the police in such areas becomes important."
 
  When asked if offenders take female cops seriously, she says, "No, they don't. But my job is to ensure that they do, and maintain law and order. If I have to shout at them and talk to them in the language that they understand, then I do that. You have to be tough while dealing with criminals. At the same time, rationality is required. I can't start crying after listening to a rape survivor’s story, no matter how deeply it disturbs me."
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 Juggling her career with raising her child is one of the major challenges for Niyati. She adds, "Generally, I leave work only after 9pm, and in a week, at least one or two days of night duty is mandatory. If some incident is reported late in the night, I have to reach the spot. Sometimes, while on night duty, when I call home and hear my baby crying in the background, it disturbs me. As a mother, you can’t convince yourself not to care, and at the same time, you can't think about it, as your job demands your full attention."
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 Niyati says, "Like any other girl, while growing up, I was also told not to talk to any stranger and avoid deserted areas. Now, I visit many such crime-affected areas on a daily basis, and when I think of those times and all those restrictions, I laugh at them. Woh darr andar kahin hai hi nahin."
 
  When asked if policewomen, in particular, are at risk in certain situations, she replies, "We don’t see ourselves as women police officers, we see ourselves as police officers. If I have to report at 2am, I will. I have not heard even a single excuse from my (female) juniors – 'Raat ke 2 baje main kaise aaungi? Mujhe chhodne kaun aaega?' The confidence to move around freely is something that we have gained from our training. Whether in uniform or in civvies, we can go to any area, at any time of the day, without any fear."
 
 
