 and his organisation, Safai Karamchari Andolan (SKA), have been fighting for the rights of sanitation workers and the eradication of manual scavenging for over two decades. The Magsaysay Award winner talks to TOI on why the workers die in sewers across India, especially Delhi

  In the recent weeks Delhi has seen a spate of deaths in the sewers. Why?
 
  After each such incident in the past two years, I have written letters to the lieutenant governor, the chief minister, Delhi Jal Board, National Human Rights Commission. I have receipts of every letter. Whenever a case has gone unreported, we have brought it to their notice. But there is no action or prosecution in such cases. Data collated by SKA shows that at least 84 such workers have died in Delhi since 1987. In 2013, Parliament passed the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act. In 2014, the   clearly told the central and the state governments to undertake a survey to identify everyone who works in the sewers. No such step has been taken. If the state had really cared, we wouldn’t have lost these 10 workers in the past month in Delhi.
 
 Full of lethal gas, the sewers are like death traps. As long as we don’t mechanise the sewage system, such deaths will not stop. Some days back Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal issued directives for 100% mechanisation of cleaning of sewers and drains.
 
  Here’s the problem: Delhi has 7,000km of sewage pipelines. It has 17 sewage treatment plants. Many of them don’t work to high capacity. We produce over 4,300 million litre per day (mld) of sewage in Delhi and we are able to treat 1,400 mld. Of late, there is talk of vigilance committees being formed in Delhi. But there is no comprehensive time-bound action plan for the whole of Delhi division-wise. No machines. No roadmaps. Even the plants are not fully mechanised. The irony is, today it is possible to enter the human heart using state-of-the-art technology but we cannot use machines to clean sewage in bylanes.
 
 The SC ruled in 2014 that everyone who has died inside a sewer must receive Rs 10 lakh as compensation. How easy or difficult is it to get that amount?
 
  In some places, we had to stage a dharna with the body to get the amount. Sometimes the kin get only Rs 2-3 lakh. In some places, the chief minister will come and make an announcement. That’s strange because the SC has already made it mandatory for the state to pay the amount. The victim’s family must furnish the postmortem report, an FIR copy, paper clippings. There should be a proper legal heir. It becomes a complicated process. It is not easy to procure these things, especially in the older cases since the SC said that every such death since 1993, must be compensated. Safai Karamchari Andolan has collected the data of 1,472 such people but we have documented 752 such deaths. By which I mean we have the evidence, postmortem report, etc. A majority hasn’t received the compensation. Only two states, Punjab and Tamil Nadu, have been prompt. Other states are not even moving in that direction.
 
 Under the Swachh Bharat scheme, lots of toilets have been built all over India. Will that help overcome the problem?
 
  It is actually adding to the problem. Many such toilets are not connected to the sewage system. They have septic tanks. People die in these tanks as well. We will add 21 crore new toilets by 2019. Unless these septic tanks are integrated with a fully mechanised sewage line, more people will die.
 
 The SC prohibits anyone from entering the sewer lines without proper protection gear. Now there are ads in newspapers too. Yet workers go into these death ditches without adequate kit. Why?
 
 Most of those who enter these pits are temporary employees. Today even a permanent employee doesn’t have the protection of unions. If an officer asks him to enter, he has no option but to go in. If an employee, particularly a contract labourer refuses, he is likely to be told, don’t come back tomorrow. What does he do?
 
 
