HYDERABAD: Rash and drunk driving have be come the bane of Hyderabad's roads. Recently, the city was shaken at the news of grievous injuries suffered by a mother and child who were hit by a speeding car at Hayathnagar. Experts say that while nightlife spots have proliferated, and along with them late-night alcoholfuelled parties, there's no reining in youngsters who drive inebriated, throwing caution to the wind.
In just two years, 2014 and 2015, as many as 846 people were killed and 4,590 injured in Hyderabad because of rash and drunk driving.From January 2016 to October 2016, a total of 46,562 people were caught for drunk driving and fines to the tune of `6.81 crore collected for the offence.
 
 The data was released recently by the   (NCRB).Rash driving has become such a menace that the NCRB in its latest round of releases included it as a separate crime category--for the first time ever. According to the report, Hyderabad stands seventh in the country when it comes to rash driving deaths (2014 and 2015). It may be behind Delhi, which tops the list with 2,703 deaths, C h e n n a i ( 1 , 9 8 0 d e at h s ) , Jaipur (1,856), Bengaluru (1,513), Mumbai (1,097) and Pune (1,019), but it is ahead of cities like Vijayawada (813), Visakhapatnam (750), Kollam (372) and Thiruvananthapuram (295).
 
 Investigators say the majority of those caught for rash and drunk driving are in the age group of 19-30 years. “Reckless driving is the main cause of accidents.I feel the police should intensely pursue inculcating lane discipline among motorists,“ says  , who lost his son Ajmal in 2011. It was the same accident that claimed the life of for mer India skipper Mohammed Azharuddin's son Ayazuddin. The two youngsters were on a 1,000cc sports bike on Outer Ring Road. The personal tragedy made Rehman start the campaign `Youth Against Speed' in colleges. “Sometime back we appealed to motorcycle manufactures to adopt speed governors. We also want the licensing system to be made stringent,“ he said.
 
 An RTO officer says the existing system of issuing licences is reasonably good, but improvements can be made. “The procedure can be bettered by making the system devoid of human intervention while judging the driving skills of a motorist.“
 
 Policing--including electronic policing, in which Hyderabad is a pioneer of sorts in the country--has been tough, but that has not been much of a deterrent. “As many as 11,787 offenders were sent to jail from January 2014 to October 2016. I must say the courts have been cooperative,“ deputy commissioner of police (traffic) L S Chauhan told TOI. As part of electronic policing, traffic violators are sent SMSes, acquainting them with their offence and its consequences. The system is tied up with the   (NIC). As many as 40,000 to 1.5 lakh SMSes are sent out per day.
 
 Civic activist Lubna Sarwath says the police should crack down heavily on unlicensed drivers, “since most youngsters, mostly minors, are involved in rash driving“.“The government should impose the rule that degree students should use only public transport to reach college.Also, colleges should not provide parking space for vehicles to students as a measure to discourage them. This will not only prevent youngsters from getting involved in accidents, but also create space on roads. But before such measures, the government should strengthen public transport and develop dedicated cycle tracks,“ she said.
 
 Former Andhra Pradesh DGP and former Hyderabad police commissioner   says parents should take responsibility for making sure minors are not given the keys to vehicles. “In many instances, minors are caught driving even SUVs. The involvement of cars is one of the main causes of road accidents in Hyderabad.“
 
