Mumbai: Four days after minister of state for home   announced the suspension of  's   in  's murder case, an inquiry was ordered against the   (CMO) on Tuesday. Medical officers are miffed that the doctor was dragged into the issue without a probe. 

 The minister had said in the assembly last Friday that Roke falsely stated that she slipped and fell in the bathroom and sustained injuries, whereas her death was caused by an assault inside the Byculla prison. Contesting this, JJ dean Dr   told TOI that the CMO didn’t comment on the nature of injuries as the patient was “brought dead” to the hospital. 
 
 “He simply noted that she had no grievous injury and sent the body for an autopsy as per protocol,” he told TOI.
 
 Several medical officers that TOI spoke to said that unless there are obvious injuries on the body of a patient who has been brought dead, such as stab marks, bullet wounds or amputation, they desist from opining on the cause of death and let the forensic experts state that after conducting a postmortem examination. 
 
 Dr Roke continues to report to duty as the hospital is yet to get an official order from the state asking for his suspension. However, an inquiry was ordered on Tuesday after the police on Monday asked the hospital to clarify the doctor’s role. “We will investigate whether there was any dereliction of duty,” the hospital dean said.
 
 Dr Roke, who specializes in medicine, joined JJ Hospital as a medical officer in June this year to complete his bond tenure. Patil’s announcement in the assembly surprised and even upset several medical officers who said an inquiry should have been conducted prior to taking action against the doctor.
 
 A doctor told TOI: “Shetye was brought dead to the hospital’s emergency section. Dr Roke declared her dead after checking her vital parameters and carrying out an ECG that showed a flat line. He subsequently sent her body for an autopsy as there was nothing else to be done in the emergency,” said the doctor.
 
 Another doctor pointed out that while it is the CMO’s job to declare a person dead, certifying the cause of death is the forensic medicine department’s job. In this case, the forensic experts said there were 17 assault marks on Shetye’s body, which formed the basis for an FIR to be lodged against the jail officials.
 
 
