The bruising battle for UP's assembly finally ends in the seventh and final phase of polling on March 8 in the state's south-eastern corner. This includes two sharply distinct belts: one is the Gangetic plains dominated by Varanasi and surrounded by Jaunpur, Chandauli, Ghazipur, Bhadohi and parts of Mirzapur districts and the second is the hilly tribal district of Sonbhadra, beyond the plains, around the river Sone and its tributaries. The plains area is typically agrarian, foodgrain and sugarcane the main crops.

 Everything moves around the ancient city of Varanasi, which draws millions not just for pilgrimage or tourism but also employment seekers from the hinterland. Bhadohi district is India's biggest handknotted carpet-making centre, with an estimated 2.2 million employed in this export-oriented industry. Like the famed weavers of Banarasi sarees in Varanasi, the carpet weavers of Bhadohi and Mirzapur too suffer ill-paying drudgery for products beautiful and costly .
 
 Ghazipur was famous for its rose attar and gulab jal (rosewater). Jaunpur is home to several 14-15th century Indo-Iranian mosques and buildings, relics of the Sharqui kingdom. Further south lies UP's second largest district, Sonbhadra, where the Gangetic plain peters out against the Chhota Nagpur plateau.
 
 Nearly 36% of the area here is forested although most of it is now “open forest“ made up of scrub and scattered trees.This panhandle is home to 10 super thermal power stations and dozens of industries attracted by the cheap power. At 11000 MW , these giant plants at Obra, Anpara, Renukoot, Bijpur, Rihandsagar, Singrauli produce about 10% of India's total power. Other major industries include the Hindalco aluminium factory , chemicals, carbon, and cement plants.
 
 Sonbhadra's industries should have transformed lives of people here that includes 16 tribal groups. While per capita net district domestic product (proxy for income) is higher than other districts in the belt, except Varanasi, and industrial employment is higher, for the mass of people in hamlets across the hills, life has not changed much.
 
 Under-5 mortality is 99 in Sonbhadra, higher than the state average of 90. Nearly 68% children are not fully immunised compared to 47% statewide. Clearly , the ultramodern industry in Sonbhadra has had an unequal relationship with the locals, taking their labour and their land for the country's greater good, but giving them virtually nothing.
 
 Questions are now being raised about the staggering impact of pollution -air and chemical contamination of water -by these industries.
 
 In 2011, a CSE study had found high levels of mercury , fluoride, chromium, lead and arsenic in soil, water, cereals and even nails and hair of people. Infertility , eczema, joint pains, tremors and fits, anxiety , teeth disorders etc.are rife in villages according to several studies and media reports.
 
