MARGAO: He observed a self-imposed moun tapasya (silent penance) for several years following his ignominious defeat in the 2007 state assembly elections. He then went on to take charge of the seven northeastern states as AICC general secretary before assuming the reins of the state Congress party. The seasoned politician that he is, Luizinho Faleiro, has donned combat fatigues once again - after almost a decade - to take on Avertano Furtado who had emerged as the giant-killer in the 2012 assembly elections, defeating former PWD minister  . 

 In the 2007 assembly elections, Alemao had defeated Faleiro, breaking the latter’s 25-year-long stint as Navelim MLA by nearly 5,000 votes. In these polls, Alemao had enjoyed BJP’s covert support.
 
 In the 2012 elections, BJP covertly supported Furtado who had contested as an independent. Furtado, who then belonged to the Faleiro camp, also enjoyed discreet support of his political master, which helped Furtado trounce Alemao by over 2,000 votes. BJP’s strategy clicked. Furtado supported the BJP-led government and was inducted into the saffron cabinet as the labour as well as fisheries minister.
 
 With Faleiro throwing his hat in the ring this time, the contours on this political landscape have altered significantly, political observers say.
 
 “Politics,” a political commentator remarked, “is a game of measured and strategic interaction, whereby one’s move on the chessboard is largely guided and greatly influenced by that of your opponent.”
 
 In Navelim, Faleiro largely succeeded in camouflaging his moves, thus preventing his opponents from launching a counter offensive. While it was widely speculated that Faleiro would contest from Navelim, the Congress president held his cards close to his chest until the last moment. The BJP, which was considering fielding its own candidate for the first time ever, changed its strategy once Faleiro made known his intention of contesting this seat. It strategically decided to support Furtado once again, after he outrightly rejected BJP’s overtures to join the saffron party.
 
 The party’s decision to support Furtado didn’t go down well with the local BJP mandal which was raring to wage war, not by proxy but on the party banner this time. The BJP therefore, finds itself in troubled waters, as a section of the local BJP workers have joined hands with the MGP camp which has fielded Satyavijay Naik, a rebel BJP worker. Naik revolted against the BJP after the party failed to nominate him in the zilla panchayat elections two years ago. Political observers say a probable split in the “Hindutva” votes could work to the detriment of Furtado, and by implication, the BJP. 
 
 Political observers say, Faleiro’s silence has always been deceitful. “His steps were measured and moves calculated, as he prepared himself to step into the battlefield. A theory doing the rounds is that Faleiro and Alemao worked out a plan in a quid pro quo arrangement – Congress would put up a low resistance fight in Benaulim against Alemao, provided he helps Faleiro in Navelim, the constituency he last represented. One cannot outright dismiss the theory considering the drama over selection of the Congress candidate in Benaulim,” a political observer said. Alemao is contesting as an NCP candidate from Benaulim.
 
 However, two-time zilla panchayat member Edwin ‘Cipru’ Cardozo who is contesting as an independent candidate may play spoilsport for Faleiro as he is likely to garner a sizeable number of traditional Congress votes. Besides, Cardozo enjoys the support of   (GFP) which is determined to avenge its humiliation by Faleiro over the failed Congress-GFP alliance.
 
 George Barreto who is contesting on the Goa Vikas Party (GVP) ticket and Sidharth Karapurkar fielded by Aam Admi Party (AAP) are two more notable players in the fray. Karapurkar, a social activist, had actively supported Furtado in the 2012 elections. AAP’s promise of a clean administration and transparent governance is likely to attract a significant section of votes towards Karapurkar. 
 
 Stakes are high for both the mainstream political parties in this constituency. A defeat for Faleiro would mean his failure in leading the party from the front. If Furtado is vanquished, it would mean a loss of a strategic seat for BJP.
 
 Will Furtado save face for the BJP in Salcete? Or will Faleiro emerge as the grandmaster? A photo finish is on the cards. 
 
