HYDERABAD: Four persons have been arrested and search for a fifth continues in the spotted deer   in Bhupalapally, according to the district superintendent of police. Police were also recovering a rifle that was believed to have been used to killed the deer, he said. 

 The police officer, Bhaskaran, said four persons, Mohd Khaleem, Ashraf Quereshi, Satyanarayana and Ramanna were locals. “A fifth person, Faisal Ahmed Khan, a resident of Hyderabad was absconding. We hope to catch him soon,“ Bhaskaran said.
 
 The gun will be sent to the   to see if it matches with the cartridge found in the car that was seized from the poachers and a bullet recovered from one of the dead deer. It may be recalled that the forest department officials said on Monday that they intercepted an Indica car after midnight from near Ambatipalli village in   lapally district. 
 
 The officials had said that when they chased the car, its occupants threatened them with guns and ran away from the spot leaving behind the car, two carcasses of spotted deer and a hunting knife among other things. 
 
 While police say that the forest department officials had filed a complaint about one vehicle that was abandoned and later seized, sources have confirmed that there were at least three vehicles involved in the poaching incident.
 
 A top forest department official admitted that it was not possible for anyone to hunt from inside of a small car such as an Indica and at least another larger vehicle must have been involved in the incident.
 
 It was also learnt that the claims by the forest department and police officials that only one vehicle was involved in the case and only five persons were part of the incident, are not fully true.
 
 Sources said that among those who escaped in at least two other vehicles, including a Maruti Gypsy, were the son of a minister and a local police officer.
 
 This, sources said, was the reason that the investigation was conducted at a snail's pace so far and that attempts were being made to give the case a quiet burial.
 
 Principal chief conservator of forests  , when asked about the investigations into the case, said that they had also checked phone records of a number believed to have been that of Faisal Khan found on a receipt in the car and that of a local TRS leader from Mahadevpur. There were no records of the two being in contact, said the official.
 
