New Delhi: An elaborate exercise to encourage households in at least five colonies under New Delhi Municipal Council to segregate   is faltering due to lack of   facilities. 

 The dream of “zero-waste” colonies had started taking shape in April when   distributed bins of different colours to residents of Golf Link, Jor Bagh, Kaka Nagar, Bharti Nagar and Ravinder Nagar with the aim of segregating waste at homes itself.
 
 The idea was to change the habits of residents and it actually appeared to be bearing fruit. In May, NDMC claimed that nearly 100% of families in these colonies had started waste   at source.
 
 In June, it planned to declare five colonies “zero-waste”. But it wasn’t to be. These colonies cannot be declared “zero waste” unless each of them has a separate composting facility — something none of them do. As things stand, after residents segregate the waste, the dry part is collected by sanitation workers and sold for recycling. The green waste, on the other hand, goes to the Okhla waste plant.
 
 The plan entails ensuring that every inch of waste generated is utilised: the dry waste is recycled, whereas the green waste is converted into compost. As Chandrima Shah, former president of Jor Bagh RWA, said: “Educational programmes were organised by NDMC in Jor Bagh on segregation of waste. Many people took it up at the household level. But the colony doesn’t have composting facility, without which we cannot turn green waste into compost.”
 
 The RWA now wants to set up a facility at the community level itself. “We have written to NDMC to seek its approval to set up a composting facility on a piece of its land,” said Shah. 
 
 The enormity of the challenge can be gauged from a comment by Beverly Solomon, secretary of Golf Link RWA: “I started segregating waste at my house. We give the dry waste to kabadiwalas. But not every household does it.” Solomon said more educational programmes on segregation of waste were needed to make residents aware. “The government must make it mandatory to segregate waste at source,” said Solomon.
 
 In many colonies, residents have themselves bought separate containers, which are emptied by sanitation workers in the morning. NDMC had planned to float tenders for developing composting facilities in these colonies last month but the process got delayed because of unknown reasons.
 
 
