 has completed almost a decade in the South film industry as an actress post her debut in the Allu Arjun-starrer Desamuduru in 2007. This year has been special for the actress as she’s working with  , who introduced her to the Tamil industry, and also making her foray into Malayalam with Mohanlal’s  . 
 
 Amid her hectic schedule in Tamil and Telugu, the actress found some time to chat with us, about her experience in Villain, how her career has shaped up and her philanthropic side.
  
 
 
 My mom had always told me that at least once in my life, I have to do a Malayalam film. When director Unnikrishnan narrated the script of Villain to me, it had me on the edge of the seat. It was one of the best scripts I had heard this year, and that’s why I signed up.
  
 I went to the sets with a notion that it’s going to be tough for me because people have told me that Malayalam is difficult. But surprisingly, it was a cakewalk for me. It’s also because I was working with the best – director Unnikrishnan was really kind. On my first day of shoot, I had a monologue which was one-and-half pages long, but I was done with that in 15 minutes! It was a good team to work with and I learnt a lot.
  
 
 I have met Lal sir before. But working with him is totally different because he has this awesome aura about him. I was so nervous to give my shots and after every take, he would give me a high-five. We would talk about things we have in common, for instance I like painting and he has this habit of collecting art. He is a down-to-earth person and makes a co-star feel very comfortable.
  
 
 I play a character with grey shades, which I have never done before, and is entirely unlike me. Vishal joined the set a day after me and told everyone that wherever there is noise, you will find Hansika. That’s because I am chirpy, jovial and full of energy. But this character is a 180 degree flip. However, the character is not negative. It’s a role that every actor would want to play at least once in their career.
  
 
 That’s the best part of being an actor. The other day, my friend was telling me that she was bored of her job. “Don’t you get bored?” she asked. I said no, because every day I am doing something new and have so much more to do. And then, opportunities like Villain give me a chance to start anew. This time, however, I am more polished as an actor, have more knowledge about the camera and my work. So, it’s safe to say I am as much a beginner as I was.
  
 
 
 It’s a black comedy, where both of us play con artists. Prabhu sir introduced me in Tamil with Engeyum Kadhal, which he directed. He produced my film Bogan earlier this year and now, in Gulebakavali, he’s my co-star. While he was a director, we had zero equation. Now, when I am working with him he calls me ‘6G’ and tells me how I have upgraded myself. Every time he comes to the set, I am either imitating someone or doing something fun. He says it’s entirely different working with me now.
  
 It’s also how I feel about working with him. When we were shooting a song, he would ask me what I was wearing so he could match my attire. I told him, “Forget that. Let’s first try and match our steps.” I was really stressed about the dance sequences but he was quite chilled out. He would say, “Leave it all to me. I will make you dance.”
  
 
 I play a lower middle class girl in the film, who is content with her life. The film has a good script and the female characters are fleshed out well. To look the character, I changed my look and body language, I couldn’t even grow my nails. 
  
 
 I am just 25 now and think I still have a long run left. In the past, actresses used to start when they are 14-15 years old and would go on. Somehow, I also started off very early. So, I have age on my side for at least the next five years and am going to make that count. For now at least, I know I will be working round the clock and working really hard. I just pray I have time to breathe.
  
 
 I usually don’t talk about it because I think it’s shallow for a person to brag about what they are doing. But everybody knows that I have adopted a couple of kids, who are like my siblings. We have got land outside Mumbai and are working on building an orphanage. Simultaneously, we are also building an old-age home. I think if we are privileged enough, we should help people.
  
 While growing up, my mom used to take me to an orphanage on my birthdays. Even now when I see kids, I play with them. That’s what gives me happiness. I love kids. I actually look forward to going for a vacation and sitting in a park so that I can meet cute kids.
  
 
 No comments. However, I will be announcing my next project in a fortnight. Also, I am waiting to go to my hometown in Mumbai, and if everything goes according to plan, I will go abroad soon for a vacation soon.
 
