"I am not a Himachali Rajput; I am a Jaipuri Rajput," said   when we asked her about her associated with Rajasthan. In the city recently to flag off a marathon and promote her upcoming film  , Kangana told us that she not only loves Jaipur, but that the city is actually her motherland. She said, "Ranauts are from Jaipur. We are not Himachali Rajputs; we are Jaipuri Rajputs. My forefathers are from the Pink City. Jaipur is actually my motherland and I love it. I can't express in words how much I love this city. I look for opportunities to come to Jaipur. When my team told me that I have been invited to flag off a marathon here, I said yes in no time."

  
 
 Kangana is a regular visitor to Udaipur and Jaipur. She said, "Our kuldevi Ambika Mata is in Udaipur. So whenever something big happens in our family ' be it a birth of a child or some major accomplishment by a family member ' we make sure that we come to Udaipur and offer our prayers at Ambika Mata temple. This is followed by a visit to Jaipur, since some of my relatives stay here. Sadly, I haven't had the opportunity to shoot any of my films in Jaipur despite the city being shooting-friendly. I hope I get to shoot here soon."
 
  Kangana added, "I find Jaipur to be the most inspiring city ever in terms of fashion, art and heritage. I can go on and on about Jaipur; I am in awe of this city!"
 
  
  Kangana Ranaut (BCCL/ Shalini Maheshwari)
 
  
 
 Talking about the city being shooting-friendly, we asked her about her opinion regarding the recent controversy involving Sanjay Leela Bhansali's period drama Padmavati and the fact that its set in Jaipur was vandalized by Karni Sena members for allegedly maligning Rajput history involving Rani Padmini. Kangana said, "It is not acceptable to take premature steps or make impulsive decisions and then take law in your hands. When the filmmaker is denying of any such distortion of facts in his movie (Bhansali had issued a statement denying the reports), what is the protest about? We should go by his words."
 
  
 
 The actress is geared up for her next release Rangoon, directed by Vishal Bhardwaj. Kangana had earlier said that the filmmaker captured her real beauty on screen, something that even Sanjay Leela Bhansali is known for. She said, "Vishal is more real and raw in his craft; Sanjay is more operatic and theatrical. Both of them are two different artistes and I would love to work with Sanjay as well. Having said that, I would like to say that Vishal's idea of beauty is very Shakespearean. The woman in his movies will always have a dark side to her. He will not show you beautiful in a way that you are a painting. He would rather show a beautiful painting with a crack. He explores the psyche of the women along with her natural beauty."
 
 
  
  Kangana Ranaut floored all with her vintage charm on her recent Jaipur trip
 
 
  
 
 Kangana won a National Award for her acclaimed performance in Queen. It was only after this film that Kangana realised that she would do films that are not just entertaining but meaningful as well. She told us, "Initially, you do a lot of things to figure out what your game is and what you would be good at. So you do a lot of stuff. You do all kind of films that come your way. And then you stumble across something like Queen and you figure out what path you want to take. After Queen, I figured out that I'd like to do characters that give out some message to society. For instance, Rangoon along with a beautiful love story, also talks about India's involvement in World War II, and how the   and Neta ji Subhash Chandra Bose were part of our freedom struggle. I realised that I enjoy doing films that are not just entertaining, but meaningful too. And ever since that realisation, I have been following the same path."
 
  
 
 On the professional front, Kangana said that she is reading a few scripts and one of them is a sports biopic. "I would love to do a sports biopic. In fact, I am reading few scripts and one of them is a sports biopic. So let's see, what the future has in store for me," she said.
 
  
 
 Kangana said that one must look up to real heroes for inspiration and not people like Kim Kardashia. Kangana said, "How many of us have people like Swami Vivekananda as our role model? I think the number would be very few as it's considered uncool, right? On the other hand, it's very cool to follow Kim Kardashian who has got nothing but a bubble butt. I think it's very important for people to look up to right role models and glorify them instead of glorifying people like Donald Trump, in order to live a fulfilling life and not a superficial and shallow life."
 
 
 
  
 
 
