JAIPUR: Father of 13-year-old   rape survivor told   (SWC) on Monday that he had filed FIR against eight school teachers for allegedly gangraping her daughter as he was under tremendous mental distress after her daughter was diagnosed with blood cancer.

 The shocking revelation came after SWC member   went to   in Bikaner to speak to the family of alleged rape survivor. “The father told us his daughter was diagnosed with blood cancer and therefore he was under severe distress related to treatment of the disease. We were completely shocked when father backtracked from his earlier complaint,” Kumawat told TOI over phone, adding she assured family members that they don’t have to fear anyone as police and administration would help her in all possible manner.
 
 Last week, the father had alleged in his complaint to Nokha police station that her daughter was raped and blackmail by eight of her teachers at a private school for one and a half year. The eight accused also allegedly forced her to stay back after school and made her taking off clothes and took a video of her. 
 
 Senior district police officials told TOI that despite father’s statements to the commission, probe into the matter will continue. “An FIR was filed by the family and we have to take our investigation to its logical conclusion, the minor’s statements would be recorded by judicial officials too,” a senior police official said, adding police investigation would be unaffected by statement of the father to women commission.
 
 The eight accused were booked under relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The brutal incident stunned the whole state until cops found contradictions in the case.
 
 “While we were probing the gangrape and blackmailing incident, we also found that one of the accused had earlier lodged a complaint against two cousins of the victim on March 20 for allegedly beating him,” the police official said, adding police are investigating both the matters.
 
 Meanwhile, minor is undergoing treatment for cancer at a local hospital as journalists continues to make a beeline outside the hospital to meet the rape survivor.
 
