Nagpur: Supriya Ramteke (17), resident of Hiwari Nagar, lost both her legs last year in an accident. Supriya fell off at the entrance of a running train and her legs got stuck in the gap between the train and platform. Both of her legs had to be amputated.

 Supriya is currently in STD 12; however her lifestyle has undergone a drastic change. She mostly stays at home and visits college only to appear in exams. The situation was about to get more hopeless as she lost the will to go for graduation.
 
 On one fine day her mother saw a banner near Yashwant stadium that read ‘registration for free artificial limbs’. From that day things started falling back in place.
 
 On Sunday, Supriya, received a pair of   costing Rs70,000 free of cost. Supriya is not the only one. Total 17 other beneficiaries, including her, who were registered at CRC received artificial limbs at the hands of Union Minister of road transport and Highway Nitin Gadkari at his residence in Mahal. The initiative was taken up by NGO Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Institute of Medical Science, Research and Human Resources of which Gadkari was the past president.
 
 Supriya now wishes to do engineering and feels confident again. Watching her walk on her own feet after the limb distribution ceremony, Gadkari said, “This is giving a new life to all these candidates. Our aim is to watch all the handicaps across the region to live an independent life. Most of them we have chosen are from below poverty line. These limbs cost about Rs50,000 to Rs1.5 lakh which the poor can’t afford.”
 
 Among the 17 candidates, total 21 artificial limbs costing Rs5,83,400 were distributed free of cost. It could be made possible by CSR funds of WCL along with NGO’s own funds. The NGO director Dr Viral Kamdar said, “This being the second time we are distributing limbs, such programs will be arranged on regular basis from now on. We are proud to be the first NGO in entire country to enter an MOU with ‘Ottobock’, one of the best artificial limb manufacturers in the world.”
 
 In the same ceremony, L&T finances donated two Winger Vans to the NGO to support its ongoing breast cancer screening program, a door-to-door initiative conducted daily. In the span of eight months, the NGO has conducted 197 camps, screening 18,353 women, where 598 women have been suspected of the cancer and are undergoing thorough diagnosis at GMCH and IGMCH.
 
 Gadkari announced that in coming days, the program will be reaching out of the city to cover entire Vidarbha. “I was discussing with Viral Kamdar to initially conduct such screening camps for schoolteachers at Naxalite areas of Gadchiroli where they don’t have access to medical facilities.” 
 
 
