Vadodara: Patients suffering from sialadenitis – an infection of the salivary glands no longer have to knock the doors of hospitals in Mumbai and Delhi for undergoing the surgery. 

 GMERS, Gotri, has become the first hospital in Gujarat where sialoendoscopy – an innovative technique that uses extremely narrow endoscopes to diagnose and treat many conditions of the salivary glands – has been started.
 
 So far, no private or government-run hospital in the state had the facility. At GMERS, however, patients can undergo the new scarless procedure and that too free of cost. The same procedure otherwise costs anywhere between Rs 50,000 and Rs one lakh in metros. 
 
 Earlier, when patients suffering from chronic sialadenitis were operated, the salivary glands were removed from such patients. 
 
 “Through sialoendoscopy instead of removing the gland, with the help of the scope the exact pathology is identified and tackled. Similarly, stone are also removed from the duct with the same set of instruments,” said Dr Hiren Soni, associate professor at ENT Department at GMERS, Gotri. 
 
 “The 1.3 mm rigid scope is inserted into the salivary duct through the mouth to locate the pathology and treat it accordingly,” he said. 
 
 The hospital has so far treated three patients after they were diagnosed of having pathology of salivary gland with the help of CT scan done by the radiology department under guidance of Dr Vijay Vaidhya. 
 
 A couple of months back, a young male patient had approached the hospital complaining that whenever he sat down for a meal he would feel some lump appearing in his neck. The size of the lump used to increase and causes much pain to the patients. Magically, within an hour the lump used to disappear and the patient did not even feel the pain as long as he did not try another meal. 
 
 “He was diagnosed as suffering from right submandibular sialadenitis. With the help of the scope, we removed the mucous plug blocking one of the branch of the salivary duct and restored the function of the gland which in absence of sialoendoscopy would have to be removed,” said Soni, adding that unlike the earlier surgeries, this procedure does not leave any scar on the patients face and allows the patients to recover faster. 
 
 “We don’t remove kidneys for uretric stones. Similarly, sialoendoscopy helps us as we don’t need to remove salivary gland for removing duct stone,” he said. 
 
 
