CHENNAI: A day after former CM O Panneerselvam’s whirlwind trip to the national capital, it was the turn of chief minister   to seek Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s help in exempting   from NEET.

 The chief minister, who was accompanied by health minister C Vijaya Baskar and chief secretary Girija Vaidyanathan, submitted a three-page memorandum to Modi, detailing the state’s position and policies.
 
 “We made our stand clear to the PM. NEET will hamper our health system that is effective in rural areas, as students from other states too will get admitted in our colleges and move away. That apart, the difficulties faced by the students in the question pattern and the number of state board students taking the exams were also discussed,” Vijaya Baskar told TOI.
 
 The CM later told reporters that Modi assured him he would consider the state government’s request. “The PM, however, pointed to the legal impediments involving exemption to the state,” sources said. Against the backdrop of pressure from the opposition parties, a team of six ministers camped in New Delhi for the second time in less than a week, meeting Union ministers Rajnath Singh and  . On Tuesday, the CM and his MPs met NDA vice-presidential candidate, Venkaiah Naidu and extended support. “We extend our unanimous support to him,” the CM said. Naidu said he was glad that the party of former CM J Jayalalithaa, who was affectionate to him, was backing him.
 
 In the meantime, in an unusual development, five ministers, P Thangamani, S P Velumani, D Jayakumar, C Ve Shanmugam and K P Anbazhagan took part in the Cauvery case hearing in   in the evening. “The ministers were present in the afternoon for close to an hour, listening in the final arguments of Karnataka that Cauvery Tribunal failed to look into the state’s demand for second crop cultivation while allocating water. Tamil Nadu will put forth its arguments only next week,” a member of the TN legal team said. DMK working president M K Stalin on Tuesday asked the state to ensure that students from Tamil Nadu were provided permanent relief from NEET instead of just getting a temporary solution. 
 
