NOIDA: BJP swept the polls in the three Gautam Budh Nagar assembly seats of Noida, Jewar and Dadri. BJP not only retained its Noida seat but also increased its victory margin to over one lakh votes. The party also uprooted the candidates of   from its strongholds in Jewar and Dadri.

 BJP candidate Pankaj Singh, son of home minister Rajnath Singh, bagged 1,62,310 votes and defeated his nearest rival Sunil Chaudhury of   by a margin of 1,03,952 votes. Chaudhury came second with 58,358 votes. BSP’s Ravikant Mishra polled just 27,305 votes in the Noida seat.
 
 In Dadri, BJP’s Tejpal Nagar received 1,41,135 votes to defeat two-time sitting MLA Satveer Gurjar of BSP by a margin of 80,140. Gurjar managed only 60,995. The win is significant as BSP chief Mayawati is from Badalpur village in Dadri.
 
 BSP suffered another blow when its three-time sitting MLA Ved Ram Bhati lost the seat to Thakur Dhirendra Singh in Jewar. Dhirendra Singh polled 1,02,931 voters and defeated Bhati by a margin of 22,169.
 
 Noida is considered BJP’s stronghold and Pankaj Singh’s win does not come as a surprise. BJP candidate Mahesh Sharma had won the 2012 assembly election by a margin of 27,676. However, he quit the seat and BJP’s Vimla Batham won the byelection by a margin of 58,952 votes in 2014.
 
 Expressing his gratitude to the residents, Pankaj Singh said, “I am grateful to the people of Noida for choosing me as their representative. I will work for them and for urban and rural development in the constituency. The massive win proves that the people of Noida agree with the development model of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” he said.
 
 Sunil Chaudhury of SP said the state government had delivered on development but BSP’s votes shifted to BJP. “People are going crazy for Modi. His party has done nothing in the last three years at the Centre. Let’s see what development BJP delivers now,” Chaudhury said.
 
 BSP’s Ravi Kanti Mishra said that the people were again fooled by Modi’s ‘jumla’. “We will wait and see if the promises are delivered. BJP and its leaders have sold dreams to the people,” he said. 
 
 The BJP candidates of Noida and Dadri seats were leading since morning when the counting started in Phool Mandi. For the Jewar seat, BJP and BSP were neck and neck initially.
 
 Jubilant BJP workers gathered outside Phool Mandi and raised celebratory and pro-Modi slogans. The winning candidates were later issued the certificates.
 
 
