NEW DELHI: The students of   had started their day like any other,   later in the morning at a  . But on entering the classroom on Saturday morning, they found something odd about the air. 

 “I entered the class and laughed after seeing all the girls ‘crying’. When I enquired, they seemed confused about the whole matter,” said Anita, a Class VI student. Little did she know that her eyes too would start itching, she would have watery eyes and she would spend the rest of the day in a hospital for being exposed to the toxic fumes emanating from the container deport adjacent to her school.
 
 Mamta, a parent of two girls from the same school, said she was getting ready for the PTM when the school van driver came back to inform her of the incident. “I thought it was a cylinder blast and rushed to the school. There, I saw many other parents who told me it was some sort of a  ,” she told TOI.
 
 Mamta said her eldest daughter, Shivangi, whose classroom is located very close to the depot boundary, realised her sister and cousins in lower classes could be suffering from the same itching of eyes and throat and she rushed to get them out. “These girls and their classmates came out of the school and told us they were not feeling well. Most of them complained of watery eyes as well,” added Mamta. 
 
 Zeenat, a Class IX student, said an ambulance was brought to the school and she and her friends were taken to a hospital. “Teachers and the principal personally called us to inform about the gas leak. They said we must take our children home immediately and bring them to the hospital if they complain of any kind of discomfort,” said Rajwati, another parent.
 
 Parents whose wards were admitted in the hospital said this must be the wake-up call for the government and demanded that depot be shifted to another location for the safety of the students. “We don’t know what kind of material they bring in those containers. What if there is a bigger incident next time? They must move it to another location before things get out of hand,” said Kiran, a parent.
 
 Principal Manisha Vaish said they had little idea about the state of affairs inside the depot. “The entrance to the depot is around 4km from the school, and we can only see the trucks from the top-most classroom of the building. We have no idea what comes in those containers. We share a common boundary wall,” she said.
 
 
