COLOMBO: It's been six years since he quit international cricket, but   doesn't seem to have lost passion for a game. One saw that in the way he indulged in a fielding drill along with the Sri Lankan players, sharing ‘high fives' with them, and in the manner in which he inspected the wicket at Galle for almost an hour with his sharp eyes, braving a relentless sun.

 When India crushed the hosts in the first Test last week, you felt sorry for not just Sri Lankan cricket, but also for Jayasuriya. Back since last year as the chief selector, the 48-year-old is trying hard to revive  's sagging cricketing fortunes.
 
 On Monday, TOI caught up with the ‘Matara Mauler' at the CCC ground here, where he was intensely watching a domestic under-23 game. Perhaps, this is where he can spot the next Jayasuriya, who'll take the bowlers to the cleaners with the same ridiculous ease. Or perhaps, there will never be another one like him. At the moment, though, he's full of praise for the Indian team, but believes that his boys will bounce back in the series. 
 
 
 
 
 
 I think when we got out for 291 in the first innings...that was crucial, because in a Test, first innings runs are very important. Unfortunately, Asela Gunaratene wasn't there since he was injured. So, if you want to win or save a match, getting runs on the board in the first innings, like what India did, is very important. But I think that our batsmen are capable of getting runs, which they showed against Zimbabwe, when they were chasing 388 on a fifth-day wicket.
 
 
 
 
 We started playing international cricket since 1982.I was in the Sri Lankan team since 1991-92, but we peaked in the 1996 World Cup, till 1999. These youngsters will peak. But, obviously, they're under pressure. That's natural. You can feel it, but they'll have to come out of it.
 
 
 
 
 That also depends on his body. He's still performing well. He's very keen to play, which is a good thing.
 
 
 
 
 India did come back the last time that they were here, after losing in Galle. This is cricket, and if we apply ourselves and want (to come back), then we can. This is something we proved last year, when we beat Australia, then the world's No. 1 Test team 3-0 when they were here. It wasn't a one-off win, because you can't win three Tests in a row without playing well. So, our player are capable. We need to give them a lot of confidence.
 
 
 
 
 (Flashes a smile) Yes...but my role is totally different now. As a chief selector, I need to make sure that we give the right squad to the captain and the coach, and from there onwards they have to carry on.
 
 
 
 
 It's very good...very talented bunch of cricketers. You don't get this kind of a combination in all departments of the game all the time.
 
 
 
 
 He attacked and got some runs. He was a bit lucky that his catch was dropped (by Asela Gunaratne, when Dhawan was on 31). We dropped (Hardik) Pandya's catch (by Dimuth Karunaratne off Herath when Pandya was on four) too, and he went on to score 50. So, these are little things we need to fine-tune. So, we need time, confidence.
 
 
 
 
 Anybody can be defeated. When Australia came here the last time, that's what we were thinking. We were thinking ‘How are we going to beat the world's top Test team. They've a good bowling side.' It's still a matter of playing some basic cricket.
 
 
 
 
 I'm not going into that, because it's up to the individual player. To see a player and learn something is good. If they can learn something from Virat or anybody, that'll be good for them. I hope our cricketers will learn from these cricketers.
 
 
 
 
 I think I'm excited when I see Dhawan attack. It reminds me of the time about 15 years ago, when a lot of attacking batsmen were around. When someone plays like that, it's nice to see.
 
 
 
 
 We're in a little bit of a transition period. We can't look at producing recently-retired great cricketers but we've talented players like Kushal Mendis, (Niroshan) Dickwella and Danushka Gunalathika. Upul Tharanga is developing into a good, experienced Test cricketer. And we're missing another good cricketer, Lahiru Thirmanne, who's another hugely talented cricketer, but unfortunately, was out due to injury .
 
 
 
 
 You never know. Anything's possible. He's a hard-working player. He's working on his game and trying to do really well. He's a disciplined player, and he wants to prove himself as a captain, and as a batsman. He wants to do well for India. He's on a roll as a captain and as a player.
 
 
