VASCO: A 19-year-old college student was assaulted inside his college on Tuesday, by three men after an alleged argument over a ‘fake’ post of a girl being kidnapped .
 
  Murgaon Education Society’s (MES) college at   was tense after three boys entered the college premises and assaulted third-year   student Prathamesh Shetye.   police was called in by the college teachers to take stock of the situation and bring it under control.
  
  A couple of days back, one of the three attackers had posted a fake message on their WhatsApp group of a girl being kidnapped. Shetye informed the group that it was a fake alarm and asked them not to post such things without confirmation. The conversation that followed turned into an argument and then took an ugly turn, when it got so bad that the trio arrived at the college to assault Shetye.
  
  At around Tuesday noon, Diptesh Naik, 26, Sahil Naik, 21 and a 17 year old, all hailing from Sancoale came down to MES College and hunted out Shetye who was outside his class. Upon finding him, the trio started kicking and punching him. He was even attacked using a steel rod. The news of the fight reached the teachers and principal and soon Verna police was called in, who reached the site before any untoward incident happened. Police took stock of the situation and immediately took the trio into custody. The police have registered a case of assault and are investigating the case.
  
  Speaking to TOI, MES vice chairman Paresh Joshi said that the incident, which took place inside the college campus does not involve any other students in the college or of any other college and it is also not related to any relationship issues. He added that the incident was immediately addressed by the students and teachers of the college and all four were taken to the college principal. He also said that the student of college informed the police about the incident. He added that police was roped in when the third student ‘who looked like a bouncer’ entered the campus with an iron rod.
