Mumbai: As many as 50,000   societies in the metropolitan region do not have ownership of land on which their buildings stand, and as a result, they are facing difficulties in either redevelopment or maintenance.

 Home buyers and activists are now demanding that the Maharashtra Ownership of   Act (MOFA) be revamped on the lines of the new stringent   regulation law, popularly called RERA. Under RERA, the fine payable by the builder for delaying conveyance is up to 10% of the project cost, whereas under MOFA it is Rs 50,000. 
 
 Unlike the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA), MOFA lacks teeth and it’s tough for them to execute deemed conveyance (changing land ownership from builders to society), activists added. Those building projects where construction is ongoing or those that are yet to get occupation certificates (OC) come under the ambit of RERA. 
 
 People, whose conveyance has been stuck for years, want the same stringent mechanism and rules under MOFA. 
 
 Around 70% of the housing societies still do not own the land on which their building or flats stand. This is because several developers, who own the land want to continue having a say on maintenance or want control over society corpus, open parking slots, terrace space to install cell towers and hoardings to earn money.
 
 Under MOFA, several thousand cases demanding conveyance are pending with the registrar’s offices, magistrates or consumer courts. In many cases either societies have not been formed or there is no conveyance (handing of land and premises ownership to society from builder) executed. 
 
 In many cases, residents do not possess the crucial 7/12 revenue extract, which gives complete information about a particular land parcel. The lack of this key document has become a major hurdle for societies that want to go in for redevelopment as their plans are pending with the civic body due to absence of ownership rights. 
 
 Housing societies pay dearly for such delay in getting a conveyance deed. “Due to delay in registering the conveyance deed, societies have to pay huge stamp duty against the gap between the earlier and the revised stamp duty and registration fees. The government should come up with a law to force builders to pay the shortfall, in case of delay in conveyance,” said a society member from Srikala society in Goregaon.
 
 Office bearers of Sai Simran society in Deonar said their building comprising 92 flats got an OC in 2006 after which the society was formed in 2009. “In order to form the society, the builder took Rs 1,500 each, but there are no signs of conveyance deed being done yet. In the meantime, cellphone towers have been installed on the building. Parking slots are still owned by the developer,” said a resident.
 
 Ramesh Prabhu of Maharashtra Societies Welfare Association said after booking 50% of the flats, the owners can form an association (society) and in accordance with the law, make it obligatory for the promoter or developer to convey the property in the name of the society within three months of obtaining an OC. “If it is not done, then it’s a criminal offence,” he said. 
 
 
