LUCKNOW: With windfall gain, comes fear and threat of getting robbed. Villagers of Kakori, who were living peacefully till 2014 with whatever meagre income they earned from agriculture and horticulure (they comprise the mango belt) are now living under constant threat of being robbed of the   they have received from state government for their land acquired under the  . 

 Farmers have received compensation of Rs 16-52 lakh per bigha in Lucknow and Unnao for their land acquired, which has turned them rich overnight. Some   money to purchase new land, while others have saved the money to start a business along the e-way. But besides prospects of growth, the e-way has given ready access to plunderers and petty thieves from nearby villages to rob their money and jewellery. 
 
 Ramjeevan of Madhvapur village said, “In my village, thieves have stolen cash from four houses in last few months. Their gang invades at midnight and enter houses through roofs. Our village is living under a constant fear of losing the money. In most families which got compensation, a member is always awake all night to keep vigil.” 
 
 Villagers whose houses are right beside the e-way are more prone to loot. Kakori police station officer Shashikant Yadav, who took charge recently told TOI, “A theft case was registered in Madhvapur village only a couple of days ago in which   came via e-way and stole jewellery and other expensive articles from the house.” 
 
 The rich compensation upgraded the lifestyle of villagers enabling them to build pucca houses, buy four-wheelers, ornaments and other expensive items for house. This is attracting thieves of distant places. Makhlu, a farmer in Gehelwara village said, “Most farmers are saving money to put up business along service lanes of e-way. Some want to run hotels, dhabas while others want to run dairy or poultry business. The thieves have sensed this and often loot residents of nearby villages. They come via e-way and get ready access to our villages through under construction service lanes. 
 
 ASP (Rural) Pratap Gopendra Yadav said, “There is 5% increase in theft cases in Kakori area in the last few months. There are active groups of thieves in Hardoi and Sitapur belt which got easy access to Kakori villages through Agra expressway. They are under our scanner and would soon get arrested.”
 
 He said the rich compensation farmers have received has changed their lifestyle and increased their aspirations. They are buying jewellery, land, cars and TVs for their house with the money which is attracting the attentioin of plunderers. 
 
 
