AHMEDABAD: Sleuths of the   (SOG) of city crime branch couldn’t believe their ears when 33-year-old   of Kanpur confessed to paying Rs 5,000 a month to rent debit cards to steal cash from ATMs made by a particular company using a masterkey, even as most people struggled to even withdraw cash after demonetization.

 Assistant commissioner of police (SOG) B C Solanki said: “They recovered 12 ATM cards — which were obtained for a monthly ‘rent’ of Rs 5,000 — Rs 5.17 lakh cash in new currency and a Master key to open the front cover of the ATMs manufactured by  . By putting off the power switch while the money was being dispensed, the entry does not reflect in bank records,” added Solanki.
 
 “Rajput and his 17-year-old nephew were arrested for stealing cash between 70 and 80 times from ATMs of a particular make, located in Odhav and Nikol areas, and from ATMs in Kanpur,” added Solanki.
 
 SOG officials said they have informed their UP counterparts and have also launched a probe to find the source of the masterkey, which the duo used to open the front covers of the ATMs. Rajput has confessed to having got the key from one Amitsing Chauhan of Delhi,” added a senior police official.
 
 According to SOG sources, Rajput, a tempo driver and native of Pipargaun in Kanpur, rented his ATM card for Rs 5,000 a month to one Amitsingh Chauhan who lived in Delhi. “As he was paid regularly by Chauhan, Rajput once asked him what he did with his ATM as no debits were ever made,” added a police source.
 
 Chauhan then took Rajput with him to an ATM. “He inserted the card, entered the amount and pulled out a key. He inserted the key into the keyhole on the side-top, opened the front and put off the power switch. The money was in the tray but there was no entry of the withdrawal in the cardholder’s account,” added a senior police official.
 
 ACP Solanki said Rajput then, instead of renting out his card, bought a masterkey for Rs 25,000 himself.
 
 “These were the first few days after demonetization, and hence Rajput could not withdraw more than Rs 2,000 a day. He then hired other debit cards and started withdrawing money from ATMs of this particular company,” a police official added.
 
 SOG sources said about a fortnight ago, Rajput came to the city along with his minor nephew to live with a family member on the pretext of getting a job here.
 
 “Rajput and his nephew would leave the house in the morning on the pretext of a job. They would steal Rs 8,000 or Rs 10,000 some 70 or 80 times from ATMs and then return,” added a police official.
 
 Rajput deposited card ‘rent’ in accounts
 
 SOG officials said Rajput would regularly deposit the Rs 5,000 rent in the cardholders’ bank accounts. “While Rs 1.20 lakh was deposited in the cardholders’ account, Rajput would deposit Rs 1 lakh in his own. We have approached the bank to freeze Rajput’s account,” a police official said.
 
 Banks puzzled for a fortnight
 
 SOG officials said that as the stolen amount did not reflect in entries, bank officials first thought that personel from the cash logistics company may not be depositing the full amount. “The cash logistic company doubled their men and in the end when “the key” surprise emerged, the bank officials couldn’t believe their eyes.
 
