CHENNAI: Bureaucrats in  , who do not have political leanings, are eager to go on central deputation these days. Given the feeling of unease about the political uncertainty in the state and the resultant politicisation of the bureaucracy, at least six senior IAS officers have moved to Delhi in less than five months. Deputation of officials to the Centre was a rarity during   regime as she used to stall efforts of officials to move out of Tamil Nadu.

 Ambuj Sharma, Jatindra Nath Swain, K Rajaraman, Shiv Das Meena and S Gopalakrishnan have taken key positions in the   and ministries of new and renewable energy , finance, urban development and electronics and information technology respectively since May . Meena was principal sec retary to CM Edappadi K Palaniswami. Ashish Kumar, a 2005-batch IAS officer, who cracked down on illegal sand miners in Tuticorin in 2013, brought embarrassment to the Jayalalithaa government.He is now officer on special duty to minister of state for Prime Minister's Office. He shifted to Delhi last month. The flight of officials, however, is nowhere near the permitted quota. As per rules, about 40% of state officials are eligible to move to the Centre on deputation, but as of now, only 10% of TN IAS officials are working at the Centre.Many more are keen to move though.
 
 “The atmosphere in the state secretariat is not conducive for neutral officials. Unlike earlier years, at least permission is being given now by the government to officials to go on deputation to the Centre. Delhi stint is a must for IASIPS officials to get promotions on a par with their seniority at later stages in their career. Those who do not take up central as signments early in their career are not eligible to become secretaries at the Centre,“ a senior official said.
 
 The rot in the administration had set in during Jayalalithaa's tenure itself. Her government, despite giving nod to many officials to go on central deputation, refused to relieve them once Centre approved their cases. Some officials were on the verge of getting blacklisted by central agencies for not joining in time. Asra Garg, an IPS officer, for instance, was to join CBI. The government gave its nod for him to move to the Centre when Jayalalithaa was CM, but once the Centre cleared his name for appointment in the CBI, the state government did not relieve him for more than a year, despite the CBI sending repeated reminders to the state government seeking his services. Garg even ran the risk of getting blacklisted by the CBI. He was finally relieved by the state after Jayalalithaa's death.
 
 Files of IAS officers Pingale Vijay Maruti and Ashish Kumar were pending for nearly two years, before they were cleared in the last few months. The two had taken contractors and miners head-on, before being shunted out from   and Tuticorin collectorate respectively .Officers like P Amutha and Arun Roy were shunted out of their posts for not toeing the line of the political executives recently . In a highly politicized bureaucracy , those loyal to the political executives call the shots and pose hurdles to others, who include even politically neutral officers.
 
 Interestingly , there are also instances of some senior IPS officials, despite getting cleared for central deputation, choosing not to go as they were assigned for duties in Maoist-infested regions.
 
 Of late, it has become quite tough for IASIPS officials to go on deputation to the Centre owing to stringent scrutiny that the Modi government has put in place. The Centre carries out multiple verifications before giving clearance to an official to move to Delhi. As a result, a good number of all-India service officials in various states do not qualify for central deputation.
 
