KOLKATA: Sporting exploits, achievements, records and memorabilia frozen in time and feted across the world are set to be showcased in the country's first  .

 Presented jointly by sports historian Boria Majumdar and industrialist Harsh Neotia, the Fanattic Sports Museum (FSM) at EcoSpace in New Town, Rajarhat, will showcase rare artefacts collected by the former over two decades. Cricket legends Sachin Tendulkar and Sourav Ganguly and Olympic champion Abhinav Bindra and Para-Olympic medalists   and Deepa Malik will inaugurate the museum on Sunday. 
 
 India currently has two cricket museums, one in Pune and the other in Chennai. What sets FSM apart is its sheer variety of sports represented in the collection. Predictably, cricket figures prominently, but many other Olympic sports including football, hockey, badminton, tennis, golf and athletics finds space in the museum that Majumdar says, is inspired by the MCC Museum at Lord's and the IOC Museum in Lausanne.
 
 “As a scholar of Indian sport, I had the opportunity to look at rare sports artefacts. It always made be ask why we didn't have a composite museum for sports in India. With such a rich heritage and a fandom less to none, I felt the need to preserve our own sporting history,” said Majumdar, who had been collecting sports magazines since childhood but began buying artefacts from auctions around 2004-05. 
 
 One of the purchases he made at an online auction is a 1897 book by   titled ‘A Chronicle of Cricket among Parsees and The Struggle: Polo versus Cricket’. The book recounts the struggle of Indian cricketers to evict polo from a portion of the parade ground in Mumbai. 
 
 “The bidding began at £150. By the time it hit £1,000, I could feel the palpitations. But I wanted it so bad that I ended up paying £2,900,” he recounted. The first Indian sports journal published in 1837 — The   — will also be on display.
 
 Among the other artefacts that he has purchased in auctions is football legend Pele's 1970 World Cup jersey, soccer wizard Lionel Messi's boot and super sprinter Usain Bolt’s spikes. 
 
 As Majumdar graduated into a sports observer and commentator, his interaction with Indian sports personalities, including cricketers, led to many contributing to his collection. One of his prized possession is Sachin Tendulkar's gloves from One-Day in Mirpur, Bangladesh, in which he scored the 100th century. 
 
 “Sachin had promised me the gloves and Anjali the tee, when he achieved the feat. I would go on every tour, hoping to land the prized cricket gear. Finally when it happened, Bangladesh won the match. I was at the lobby when he called from his room and handed me the gloves after a short private celebration,” he recalled. The museum will also have a miniature bat signed by cricket legend Don Bradman and Tendulkar in its collection.
 
 Badminton star PV Sindhu gifted him the jersey from the silver medal winning match at the Rio Olympics. The gloves won by Abhinav Bindra as he shot his way to gold at the 2008 Olympics is also on display as is the bat used by   to score 303 against England in the just concluded Test series. 
 
 “No collection of this nature can ever be complete. At the same time it is good enough to give people a fair idea about how rich our sports history is. And the collection is ongoing. It does fill a gap and in doing so aspires to see many such initiatives across the country,” Majumdar added.
 
