AJMER:   Tuesday   involved in   and used to  . Five persons have been arrested in this connection. Police claim about 100 two-wheelers have been stolen by gang members, aged between 19-30 years, who are school dropouts. 

 The gang planned dacoity at various places and they were nabbed before first attempt. Some of the accused have criminal records. 
 
 Looking onto the spurt in incidents of chain snatching in Ajmer and surrounding towns, SP and DIG Nitin Deep Blaggan constituted a special team to round up such gangs. “We got a tip that some youths gathered under the flyover bridge near   and were planning something bad,” said Haripal Singh, SHO of Alwar Gate. A team went to the spot and rounded up five youths. A country made gun with bullets has been recovered from their possession. Three stole motorcycles with fake number plates and other things.
 
 Police then arrested Himat Singh (19) of Baliya village of Ajmer, Momin (22) of Dumara village, Ashok (30) of Paharganj of Ajmer, Vinai Kumar (20) of Kalyanipura and Jai Singh (20) of Badliya village. During interrogation, the accused revealed different crimes and accepted hundred cases of bike lifting. “We recovered 11 motorcycles and six scooters based on the information of accused,” said police adding they are also trying to recover more vehicles.
 
 The accused told police that they were planning to rob a house of a businessman at Shrinagar road. “Jai Singh worked as a labourer at the office of the businessman and knew whereabouts of his things and therefore, the gang planned a robbery,” added police. They also planned to rob another house where friends of Jai Singh were working. “The group also planned a loot in Pisanghan and other places which we are under investigation,” added police.
 
 Sources said all youths started small theft and snatching crimes to get money easily and later they came in contact with each other. Interestingly, 19-year-old Himat Singh is the kingpin of this gang who planned everything. “Small crimes turned to organized crime and they were turning to robbers,” added police.
 
 
