CHENNAI: The   puzzle was solved in no time. But even for BJP that thrives on fishing in troubled waters, unraveling the political tangle in Tamil Nadu, where it wants the friendly   to stay in power, might prove daunting.

 Following the visit to Delhi by both the chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and   factions earlier this week and their separate meetings with Prime Minister  , expectations of a quick merger of the two AIADMK factions soared. On the contrary, the merger option looks like a mirage now.
 
 Apparently, the OPS faction in their meeting with Modi had apprised him of their reservations on the merger, especially in the wake of   clan’s continued influence on the EPS government and the allegations of corruption. “Until now Modi seems to be under the assumption that the merger will eventually happen, once the two factions thrash out differences over power and positions in the government and the party. He, however, got to know firsthand that the merger is not even a possibility,” a leader privy to the developments told TOI.
 
 “There is no question of a partnership (with EPS faction). We have chosen our path and are proceeding. The party cadres and the people are with us. The 11 public meetings in various districts that we held have been a huge success. The EPS government will fall on its own weight,” Rajya Sabha MP and a prominent OPS faction leader V Maitreyan told TOI on Thursday.
 
 Did the OPS faction apprise the PM about the influence of Sasikala’s family and the allegations of rampant corruption? “Mr Modi knows the ground reality. We also apprise him of the situation in the state when we meet him,” Maitreyan said.
 
 That surely leaves BJP in a quandary, since Modi would prefer to let her friend J Jayalalithaa’s legacy to continue and also offers the possibility of a tie-up in Tamil Nadu in future. It has no other option, but to accept EPS at this point of time, especially given the numbers on his side.
 
 At the same time, the allegations of corruption against the EPS government do not go well with Modi’s thrust on clean governance. For his part, Edapadi too has not officially distanced himself from Sasikala and family, even though others in the government have spoken about it. That perhaps would thaw relations between BJP and the EPS faction.
 
