BHOPAL: Even after increase in vigilance and the setting up of a police help centre inside Hamidia, one more incident of a hospital staff asking for money to operate a below poverty line patient has come to light. 

 The relative of the patient from Vidisha, Dilip Raikwar, alleged that he had been beaten by the staff of the orthopaedic department of   and was asked to pay Rs 4,000 if he wanted to get his nephew   operated upon immediately.
 
 On Friday evening, Raikwar got beaten by a staff of the now infamous hospital named Dr Nitesh. "I had admitted my nephew in the hospital on December 27. He had fell down from the roof and broken a bone. He was admitted to orthopaedic ward. When brought here, doctors said that he needs an operation immediately, but since then I have been running from pillar to post to get the date."
 
 Raikw ar said, "The ward boy and Dr Nitesh told me that if I want to get the operation done, I will have to pay them Rs 4,000. They also kept me engaged in works of other patients by telling me to deliver files to other doctors. When I refused on Friday, they hit and threatened me." 
 
 Raikwar said that when he told the hospital authorities that he has a BPL card and need not pay them any money for treatment, they asked him to get the card. "I went all the way to Vidisha to get the card, and even after that they kept abusing me," said Raikwar.
 
 When  , the police in-charge at Hamidia was contacted, he said, "It was a small incident of heated argument between the patient's attendant, who belongs to the BPL category. We are yet to take the statements of doctors and staff named in the complaint."
 
 At the turn of new year, the unavailability of CT-scan service at Hamidia sparked a heated exchange of words between a group of youngsters and a doctor and his alleged manhandling. The ruckus affected services in the hospital for two hours. Both youngsters and the doctor on duty lodged a complaint and a counter-complaint at   police station.
 
 Chief minister   visited the hospital and ordered improvement in services last month.
 
 
