PATNA: The East central Railway and the   have beefed up   measures in the areas falling under their jurisdictions in Bihar and Jharkhand in view of the Republic Day on January 26. Separate high-level meetings were held in this regard on Monday.

 The Danapur cantonment, one of the country’s oldest cantonments, imparts integrated training to newly recruited jawans. Metal detectors have been installed at vital installations under the Danapur cantonment’s jurisdiction.
 
 Alert armymen are keeping a watch on the movement of vehicles and pedestrians in the cantonment area, sources said and added use of cellphones in sensitive zones of the cantonment is prohibited. 
 
 Though cantonment officers refused to share details, a senior Army officer described the security measures as a routine exercise in all cantonments in the run-up to the national festival.
 
 In the wake of the Republic Day as well as incidents of derailment of passenger trains in neighbouring UP in recent months and a foiled attempt to derail a passenger train near Dalsinghsarai in Bihar on Sunday night, the   has also beefed up security in vulnerable and Maoist-affected areas falling under its five rail divisions.
 
 The railways has been a soft target during such occasions and, as such, all major stations under the ECR’s Danapur division have been put on alert, Danapur DRM R K Jha said, adding passenger trains either originating from or passing through the division are under strict surveillance of RPF and GRP men.
 
 Jha said security measures have been reviewed and beefed up at Patna Junction, Rajendra Nagar Terminal and Pataliputra Junction where additional securitymen have been deployed. Luggage scanners are already functioning at Patna Junction.
 
 According to the DRM, securitymen have set up surveillance booths near Mahavir Mandir and at Karbigahiya end and Rajendra Nagar Terminal in Patna to keep a watch on the movement of people and vehicles entering or exiting the railway premises. A bomb squad has also been deployed at Patna Junction while the RPF’s dog squad is already on the move on platforms.
 
 According to the sources, GRP men in mufti have been deployed at Patna Junction platforms and the footage of   cameras is being rummaged through round the clock.
 
 
