NEW DELHI: The triumph was of Olympic proportions even if the occasion may not be so.

 PV Sindhu, poster girl of Indian badminton, exacted sweet revenge over her Rio nemesis,   in the final of $325000 Yonex Sunrise   on Sunday evening.
 
 
 
 With the atmosphere in the Siri Fort Complex on the threshold of going insane, Sindhu excelled every moment of 47 minutes she stayed on court to make it a memorable 21-19, 21-16 victory. As soon as the Spanish top seed hit the shuttle into the net, after trailing throughout the second game, Sindhu threw up her arms and the packed arena rose up in one unified roar.
 
 Almost throughout the match, Marin was doing the chasing and only once in the first game, at 18-17, that she enjoyed a lead. Then a referral, asked by Marin, went in Sindhu's favour. The points were level at 18-18. And Sindhu took it from there to grab the game with a smash, the weapon that she has been using with judicious precision.
 
 The other day, Sindhu had said that if needed coach P   will be at the courtside. Sunday evening called for some extraordinary measures and Gopi obliged. Some 5000 partisan fans also screamed like crazy for the waif-like Sindhu in a yellow tunic. Each and every stroke was cheered and every point won was celebrated noisily.
  
  
 In an international career already into its sixth year, the 21-year-old has bagged two Super Series titles (China and India Open), two bronze medals at the Worlds and an Olympic silver medal. Sindhu's graph has only gone northward ever since Gopi introduced her to the Indian team for the 2010 Uber Cup.
 
 
 
 Earlier on Sunday, Viktor Axelsen was in a mad rush during the men's final. In his third attempt to win the India Open title, the big Dane spent just 35 minutes on the cour before demolishing Chinese Taipei's   21-13, 2110. "I didn't want to give a world class player like Chen more time on court. I planned to finish things off within 30 minutes," the Olympic bronze medalist said as he left the arena in a huff. Apparently, he had a flight to catch.
 
 Determined to snap the losing streak in the Capital, Axelsen produced some high-class attacking badminton that often left Chen rooted and even floored, a couple of times. First, it was   and then  , in 2015 and 2016, who had put paid to Axelsen's hopes. "I became third-time lucky. Since the Olympic bronze, I have stayed injuryfree and playing well."
 
 
 
 
