AURANGABAD: Fed up with the inaction on her pleas to remove an illegal construction blocking her home, a 75-year-old woman refused to take it lying down any more. On Tuesday, she squatted outside the municipal commissioner’s cabin to draw his attention to the way her complaints to civic officials had fallen on deaf ears for a year. 

 Lilabai Balchand Paithanpagare, a resident of Fakirwadi in Diwandewdi, has been making representation to the civic authorities for a year for removal of an unauthorized structure obstructing an approach road to her residence. She has also resorted to dharna andolan recently but it failed to bring any result. 
 
 On Tuesday, she resorted to dharna in front of municipal commissioner D M Mugalikar’s cabin. “I will not move from here till the authorities demolish the illegal structure. If the structure is illegal, why they are delaying the demolition,” she said. 
 
 Mugalikar took immediate cognizance and sent a team of civic authorities to the spot to take action but the squad returned empty-handed after the occupant created a scene. The housewife, who according to municipal authorities has built a two-storeyed structure without permission, threatened to commit suicide if the authorities dare to demolish the structure. 
 
 Faced with such a situation, the AMC’s demolition team including deputy municipal commissioner Ravindra Nikam; designated officer M M Khan; two building inspectors, ten labourers, police inspector Nirmala Pardesi; two lady constables; a JCB machine and a truck returned without taking any action.
 
 “Fearing a law and order situation, we decided not to take any action. The lady was opposing the demolition tooth and nail. She might have even committed suicide,” Nikam said, adding that a portion of the house is unauthorised. 
 
 It is important to note that about 45 days ago when the municipal authorities made a similar attempt, the occupant had tried to immolate herself. The municipal body had then lodged a police complaint against the woman. 
 
 Paithanpagare said the authorities should have arrested the lady before demolishing the structure. “When everyone knowns that the occupant is experimenting different types of methods to avoid demolition, why the municipal body is following the same route. It seems that the authorities are trying to safeguard the interest of the encroacher,” she said.
 
