LUCKNOW: Will   get back into the party? Speculations are abuzz about the   getting in touch with Kushwaha, who was expelled from the party following his being accused in the multi-crore-rupee   ( ) scam.

 When contacted,   did not deny having been approached by   but said he now has his own Jan Adhikar Party to lead. “I have a full-fledged office and party members in each district and we are preparing our own political ground,” he said, while speaking to TOI.
 
 After his expulsion from BSP, Kushwaha had joined the BJP before the 2012 assembly elections. The BJP, however, denied him a ticket and he quit. He later formed Jan Adhikar Manch, even as his wife, Shivkanya and brother Shiv Saran Kushwaha joined Samajwadi Party in 2013 but remained inactive. Kushwaha said his wife and brother were now working with him in his party.
 
 Possibility of Kushwaha getting back into the BSP arose when Mayawati re-inducted several expelled BSP leaders, including Daddu Prasad, Anees Ahmad and Abdul Mannan, after the party’s humiliating defeat in the UP assembly elections. Daddu, a former rural development minister in the previous BSP regime was taken back soon after party’s decimation in the state elections, Anees Ahmad and Abdul Hannan were brought back after Mayawati expelled her close aide Naseemuddin Siddiqui. 
 
 Mayawati is learnt to have asked some of her confidantes to send feelers to more expelled BSP leaders and get them back. Sources said re-inducting expelled party leaders may help Mayawati in neutralising any prevailing resentment while reviving the sagging morale of the party cadre.
 
 BSP sources said re-induction of Kushwaha, who happened to be one of the few backroom boys of Mayawati, could help the party in getting an MBC face and as an alternate to former BSP leader Swami Prasad Maurya who turned rebel against Mayawati and joined the BJP before UP assembly elections. Political experts said Kushwaha wields considerable influence amongst his community, especially in the Bundelkhand region. “The members of his community are in almost all assembly constituencies,’’ said a senior BSP leader on the condition of anonymity.
 
 Political experts said her party’s decimation in the state elections may have forced Mayawati to try every trick to regain her lost political ground. “The manner in which she reshuffled her party’s organizational structure and decided to contest urban local bodies’ elections on party symbol were indicative of Mayawati’s larger plans to resurrect BSP from the rubble,’’ said a political commentator.
 
 
