If nothing else, there is hope for hundreds of restaurants, hotels and bars in Delhi NCR that are on the verge of facing a shutdown after   banned the sale of liquor within 500 meters of national highways even in bars, restaurants and hotels on Friday. On Sunday, hoteliers and restaurateurs met in Gurgaon and sought help from the state and central governments to find a way out of the crisis, saying they were losing thousands of crores in revenue nationally, and if the ban continues, millions of people will lose jobs across India. With words of support and some news coming from different quarters of state governments, restaurant and hotel bodies are now hopeful that their meetings with different ministers and officials lined up this week will result in some solution.

  
  
  
 
 
 "Tourism creates jobs. Why kill it? SC's highway liquor ban verdict may hit one million jobs," tweeted Amitabh Kant. Rajasthan's Public Works Department declared on Tuesday that it will denotify state highways as urban roads to circumvent SC's liquor ban order. The tourism ministry will seek legal suggestions to explore a "middle path" to solve problems being faced by hoteliers and restaurant owners following the SC's order banning liquor sale along highways.
 
  
  
 
 
 "We respect the Supreme Court order. We will take suggestions from legal experts to see whether there can be a middle path," tourism minister Mahesh Sharma said after a delegation of hoteliers and restaurateurs met him. He added that the matter is a state subject and any decision regarding it will be taken by the state government. "We will refer the problems being faced by the hoteliers and restaurant owners, due to the ban, to the states and it is for them to take necessary actions," he added.
 
 
  
  
 
 
  The members of  , World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC) and   in Indian Tourism and Hospitality (FAITH) are meeting different people in the state and central governments to put forward their concerns and are hoping that within a day or two, there will be some steps suggested to them to deal with the situation. "We met tourism minister Mahesh Sharma and   chief secretary Depinder Singh Dhesi, who are reviewing the order, after which they will create a committee to decide what is to be done. Also, the Haryana excise department has formed a committee that will be measuring the distance of bars and restaurants in Gurgaon from the national highway using 'motorable distance' as the benchmark," informs  , honorary secretary of NRAI.
 
  "Denotification of highways is one of the way-out options few state governments are resorting to. When the maintenance or repair of any highway is done by the municipal corporation, it becomes a municipal road and this is the move which should have happened before, but presently this seems to be the only way out to save millions of jobs and revenue," says  , president of National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI).
 
 
  
  
 
 
  Riyaaz says that a word of support from state government is surely a ray of hope. "The government also realises that a move like this will result in millions of people losing their jobs, crores of revenue loss and tourism of the country will be on an all-time low if this continues. The SC's order came as a shock to us as none of the previous orders mentioned hotels and restaurants, it was applicable to liquor vends and was about sale of liquor. Hotels and restaurants do not sell liquor, we serve liquor. We have to go by the judgment, but what I can say is that in this entire matter, hotels and restaurants have not been given a hearing, which is really unfair. Is there something illegal that we are doing? We pay our taxes, we pay our license fee and are law-abiding citizens, why kill our business? And it is not just our business, millions of people will lose their jobs because of this. Banning the sale of liquor is no solution to curb drunken driving, we need stricter enforcement of traffic laws. Is anyone thinking about the number of deaths that happen due to overspeeding on roads? All we are hoping now is that the state and central governments will come forward and suggest a way out of this," says Riyaaz. 
 
  
  
 
 
 --With inputs from PTI
 
 
