PUNE: The upcoming subdued rainfall period, possibly extending till the initial days of August, may not affect the monsoon performance for the next month after all. 

 India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) latest seasonal outlook has indicated that August rainfall over the country will be normal or probably even slightly above normal.
 
 The outlook indicated during the combined July-September period, slightly above normal rainfall could be expected over west-central and northeastern parts of the country, and slightly below normal rainfall in parts of north India.
 
 The   for the August-October season has indicated slightly above normal rainfall over most parts of India, except the southern peninsular region. The outlook indicated that the rainfall during August, September and October is expected to be in the -10% to +10%, which is the normal range for the country averaged monthly precipitation (rainfall). 
 
 IMD sources said that while the next outlook will depict a clearer picture on the monsoon performance in August, operational forecasts as of now indicate a normal August rainfall. “Though earlier forecasts had indicated July rainfall to be at 96% of the long period average, conditions changed suddenly in the last few days with big states like Rajasthan and Gujarat receiving good rainfall, pushing up the country’s total rainfall quantum,” they said.
 
 IMD sources said that though the monsoon rainfall may be subdued over parts of India during the first week of August, it is unlikely to affect the country’s average monsoon quota for the month. “Gujarat was deficient during the initial period of June but the entire shortfall has now been covered. A week to 10 days of subdued rainfall is normal and is unlikely to adversely affect the monsoon quota for a month,” they said.
 
 As for July, rainfall   has reduced in parts of the country, including parts of north India and Maharashtra. Monsoon activity may be concentrated mostly over the Himalayan foothills for some time. Rainfall intensity is also likely to   in Konkan and Goa after a day or two, the sources said.
 
 The long range forecasts presented in the outlook are based on the Monsoon Mission Climate Forecasting System (MMCFS) and are currently experimental.
 
 
