 Former five-time national champions   Sports Club await a tough challenge from Pune City FC’s developmental side in the first semifinals of the inaugural edition of the   at the Duler   Stadium in Mapusa on Thursday at 4pm.The tournament which served as an opener for the football season in Goa has generated a lot of interest and lived up to its billing since it commenced on September 1.
 
  Pune are the second outstation team that survived in the 12-team tournament which also featured Viva Chennai FC and ONGC (Mumbai). Kerala’s Gokulam FC made a dramatic comeback on Tuesday to shock favourites Sporting Clube de Goa and seal their berth in the final four. They take on defending Goa Pro League champions Salgaocar FC in the second semifinals on Friday.
  
  Pune had won the Under-19 IFA Shield in June under Spanish coach Roger Lamesa Grau and young coach Anshul Katiyar only took over the reins on August 15 after making the switch from I-League Second Division side Delhi United SC.
  
  “This tournament is very competitive and important as we are in our pre-season. The boys are really doing well and it is a good learning experience for us. Dempo are a tough team with good experienced players. Playing a tough opponent is always good and the boys are really enjoying it,” said Katiyar.
  
  Pune have six Under-18 players and their fluidity impressed many when they trounced Dempo’s junior team 4-0 in their opening fixture. Although Pune won their second match against FC Bardez by a solitary goal, they had a price to pay as they lost influential captain Ashique Kurniyan following a red card in the final minute.
  
  Katiyar will certainly have to work on his tactics but believes players like Omega Vanlalhruaitluanga, Rahul Yadav or Sachin Karnan can fill the void on the left wing.
  
  Dempo are rebuilding under new coach Samir Naik but finishing is certainly a worry for the former India captain after they advanced with 1-0 wins against Calangute Association and ONGC.
  
  “The boys are very positive and we will play to win. We do have some injury concerns over Latesh Mandrekar, Kapil Hoble and Joaquim Abranches but a call will be taken on their inclusion in the morning,” said Samir.
  
  Meanwhile, after throwing the gates open for 12 group matches, the organisers have announced an entry fee for the semifinals and final on Sunday. The spectators will have to buy a housie coupon costing Rs 50 to enter the West stand while entry to the North stand will remain free, a press release revealed.
