GANDHINAGAR: Closing   outlets due to their proximity to highways may be an overkill in   which is already a dry state. Sources said   associations want the state government to make a representation to the Centre to exempt Gujarat from the Supreme Court’s blanket ban on sale of liquor within 500 metres of any  . Prohibition is strictly implemented in Gujarat by law and sale of liquor in the state is highly regulated through permits, the sources said.

  Sources in the prohibition department said the state government is considering making a representation to the Centre but has not reached any definite decision in the matter. The state is currently enforcing the SC order through closure notices issued to permit liquor shops that fall within 500 metres of highways.
 
 Sources further said that as the sale of liquor from permit shops is strictly regulated in Gujarat, further restrictions, which may be required in other states, may not be necessary. 
 
 Hotel associations have also requested the state government to report the real situation to the   and the Union government.
 
 So far the state government has issued closure notices to permit liquor shops in 16 leading hotels. Twelve were issued closure notices on Saturday and now four more have also received these notices. These four hotels are Ahmedabad-based Narayani Hotels & Resorts Ltd; LA Casa Wine, Anand; Sairam Krupa Hotel, Bharuch; and Horizon Hospitality, Nadiad. 
 
 One hotel, Courtyard by Marriott, has claimed exemption on the ground that it falls just outside the 500-metre limit.
 
 “Unlike other states that have no prohibition and where cash and carry outlets or liquor bars on highways are open to all, we allow sale of liquor only to those who have permits,” said a source in government. 
 
 “Even permit holders have to carry liquor to their homes and drink it there. They are not allowed to drink and drive,” the source said. 
 
 In Ahmedabad, till April 2014, there were only five liquor shops. Between May 2014 and January 2016, another eight shops received permissions. Around 10 more hotels have applied for licences to sell liquor.
 
