CHANDIGARH: The   and   high court on Tuesday issued notice to various authorities in Punjab on the electricity subsidy given to rich farmers for their agricultural pump sets. Notices were issued to the Punjab government, the   and the   (PSPCL) on a PIL by advocate H C Arora which seeks to abolish the subsidy to those who are financially well-off. The plea also seeks to identify the creamy layer among farmers on the lines of OBC reservation.

 Arora has stated before a division bench of Justice A K Mittal and Justice Amit Rawal that Punjab has been providing free electricity for tubewells for several years. The subsidy, which is reimbursed to PSPCL by the state government, was Rs 6,113 crore during 2016-2017. 
 
 According to the petition, some of the richest farmers avail the facility including former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Badal, state finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, chief minister   and   Kuljit Singh Nagra.
 
 “They all are enjoying the concession of free electric power for the tubewells installed for irrigating farm land. Only one such rich farmer, (AAP Punjab chief) Sukhpal Singh Khaira, has surrendered such subsidy of his own will, and no other MLA has given up subsidy, despite an appeal made by Capt Amarinder Singh, who himself has not given up subsidy so far,” argues the petitioner.
 
 The PIL has pleaded that rich farmers do not deserve concession. The amount saved can be used to solve real issues of small farmers, who are burdened by debt and committing suicide, the petition says and adds that all bureaucrats, police officers, MLAs, MPs and industrialists should be excluded from the benefits.
 
 According to Arora, given that Punjab government does not have funds to pay salaries on time to its employees, it should not be permitted to indulge in such wasteful expenditure. He has suggested that just as some prosperous people are excluded from OBC reservation, the creamy layer among farmers too should be carved out by determining a criteria.
 
 Arora has also pleaded that the method of giving subsidy is full of loopholes and some system to measure consumption of electricity should be evolved. According to him, small farmers should be extended the benefit of free electricity on the basis of optimum consumption per acre as excessive use of tubewells is resulting in receding water table, which is not in the interest of the state.
 
