PUDUCHERRY: The former deputy registrar of   A  , who was instrumental in exposing the fraudulent activities of the sacked vice-chancellor Chandra Krishnamurthy and others, said the 127th emergency meeting of executive council convened by the vice-chancellor in-charge   is ‘illegal and invalid’.

 The executive council approved and ratified the decision to relieve registrar B R Babu after the   booked him and others on charges of indulging in corrupt practices in postgraduate medical admissions in private institutions in the Union territory of Puducherry.
 
 In memorandums addressed to Union human resource development ministry and others, Balasubramanian, who also served as the law officer of the university, said the university administration invoked ‘irrelevant and inapplicable’ provisions of the Pondicherry University Act, Statutes and Ordinances while relieving Babu from the post. Hence, the relieving and ratification by the executive council is ‘void and invalid’, he said.
 
 Balasubramanian said the administration invoked the sections that pertain to the chancellor and not the vice-chancellor. “Dr Anisa Khan has stated that she has relieved Babu from the post of registrar by invoking Section 12 (3) of the Pondicherry University Act, which confers power to the vice chancellor to take any necessary action on any matter in exercise of any power conferred on any authority of the university. But Section 12 pertains to the chancellor and not to the vice-chancellor,” he said.
 
 The former deputy secretary, who was denied a major part of his retirement benefits for exposing corrupt practices, said the executive council did not have a quorum and hence its order is invalid. “As per the Section 11 (3) of the university’s statute, one-third of the total members of the executive council shall form a quorum for a meeting of the executive council”, said Balasubramanian.
 
 Lt governor  , who is the rector of the university, was also of the firm view that an official appointed by the Union human resource development ministry can be removed only by the ministry and not by anybody. “When appointed by Union human resource ministry, he can be removed only by the ministry, not by anyone else whatsoever the circumstances. Hence please do not bring in the rector. I have informed the registrar. Accordingly, I am not in any way advising you further,” Bedi said while recording her observations.
 
 
