There’s a lot of buzz around ' ', the inspiring biopic of  , a poor, uneducated adivasi girl from Telangana, who became the youngest girl to conquer Mount Everest at the age of 13. Apart from a special screening for President Pranab Mukherjee, previews of the movie, produced and directed by  , were also held for the who’s who of Bollywood and the Indian cricket team. 
Here’s what the celebs had to say after watching the film, which releases today...
 
  This is one of the best films I have seen in a long time. I cried and was inspired at the same time. Great performances! 
 
  I didn’t know that this little girl existed. Now that I know her, things will never be the same again. This movie is an absolute must watch. 
 
  'Poorna' is a remarkable story, extremely well told. You are rooting for the young girl throughout the film. 
 
  It moves you, inspires you, makes you cry, and finally makes you proud of this little girl’s achievement. I would gladly see it a second time. 
 
  
  
 
  The film is emotionally moving and thrilling at the same time. It has got great performances and technical polish. 
 
  Rahul’s depiction of Purna is warm, intimate and patient. He has directed young actor Aditi Inamdar to render one of the finest performances of the year. 
 
  It’s inspiring and wonderful. Tell your children to watch this film. School children should be shown this film. This is the kind of cinema that we should we be making and the children of our country should be exposed to. 
 
  This film makes you realise that the power of a thought can have such immense potential. It can drive you to achieve so much. I think Rahul has really taken every viewer on an emotional roller coaster. I’m overwhelmed. I don’t think I’ve been touched by a film so deeply in a long time. I’m not sure whether I love Rahul more or I love Poorna more but watching this film just inspired me so much. We need a hundred Poornas to inspire girls out there. 
 
  It’s a special film about a special and inspiring young girl. It’s incredible. 
 
  It’s an inspiring film that tells the story of the youngest girl who climbed Mount Everest. It’s a true story with some changes made for cinematic purposes. The film has actually evoked rather brilliantly the triumphs, the hopes and the fears that accompany such an amazing achievement. 
 
  
  
  
 
 
