NEW DELHI: Congress general secretary   Singh found himself in the eye of a fresh political controversy when he accused Telangana police of encouraging Muslim youth to join global terror outfit Islamic State, triggering angry reactions from the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi, the state government, and BJP, which asked him to provide evidence to back his claim.

 Singh tweeted on Monday , “Telangana police has set up a bogus IS site which is radicalising Muslim youths and encouraging them to become IS modules.“ He said the information which led to the arrest of the Shajapur (MP) train blast accused and the encounter in Lucknow the same day had come from Telangana.
 
 “The issue is whether Telangana police should be trapping Muslim youths in becoming IS modules by posting inflammatory information?“ he said, asking chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to respond.
 
 The remark triggered a row, with the CM's son and Telangana IT minister KTR Rao responding, “Most irresponsible and reprehensible thing coming from a former CM. I request you to withdraw these comments unconditionally or provide evidence.“ Throwing his weight behind Telangana, Union I&B minister and BJP veteran Venkaiah Naidu said, “He should present evidence or (tender) apology. Telangana police proactively shares information on anti-terror operations with other states. Such baseless charges demoralise the forces. While KCR's daughter and TRS MP K Kavitha called Singh's remarks “ridiculous“, state police chief Anurag Sharma termed them an attempt to “lower the morale of the hardworking state police“.
 
 Known for his penchant for controversial comments, Singh sent Congress into silence with his latest remarks. AICC spokesman Anand Sharma refused to react and said questions on the issue were best addressed to Singh. There was a sense of exasperation, with a party office-bearer saying Singh should provide evidence if he was convinced about his claims. 
 
 The Congress veteran has been back in the news over the past few days. Congress trimmed on Saturday his responsibility as party general secretary by taking away his mandate of Karnataka and Goa and reallocating it to younger leaders. He is now left with the charge of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, and it is to be seen if these two states stay with him or he makes a complete exit from the organisation in the reshuffle being effected by Rahul Gandhi.
 
 When asked for evidence, Singh said it was in public domain as the accused in the train blast had posted pictures of the train on a supposed IS website that was actually operated by Telangana cops who later informed the MP police.
 
 Meanwhile, the Majlis Bachao Tehreek has demanded a high-level inquiry into Singh's allegations.
 
