BENGALURU: After filing two   pleas and losing Rs 28,000, Fr Ambrose Pinto, principal of St Aloysius College in Cox Town, realized the process of receiving accreditation from the National Assessment and Accreditation Council ( ) is no mean feat. 

 NAAC’s replies to the RTI queries revealed that only if the institution is 10 years old, has permanent affiliation, is a women’s college and offers postgraduate courses, can it gain points. However, the NAAC website says something else — the institution should be atleast six years old or should have seen at least two batches of students graduate. It mentions nothing about PG courses.
 
 Applying for a grade for the first time last October, Fr Pinto didn’t understand why his eight-year-old college failed in the Institutional Evaluation of Quality Assessment (IEQA) stage. “First-time applicants need to submit a letter of intent (LOI) with the relevant documents. After that, we have to clear IEQA, which is a computerized process. Marks are provided under two categories — one has 10 questions and the other 36. But if we don’t make it, we aren’t told why. ‘You have not cleared IEQA. Please reapply for LOI after six months’ is the message we get,” explained Fr Pinto.
 
 “Each time we reapply, we have to shell out Rs 28,000, which is the amount for the entire accreditation process. We should be charged only for the stages cleared...Many good features go unnoticed by NAAC. All our faculty members are permanent, 13 have cleared the National Eligibility Test (NET) and State Level Eligibility Test (SLET) and one has a doctorate. These achievements don’t seem to matter,” he rued.
 
 From December 2015 till date, 520 higher educational institutions have applied for IEQA, of which 342 have cleared it and 178 have failed, as per a NAAC statement. 
 
 The state higher education department has lost up to Rs 28 lakh in trying to get colleges accredited.  , co-ordinator for government colleges and NAAC, said in 2016, 80 of 200 government institutions failed in the IEQA stage. “We expect relevance, access and equity from government institutions. With so many of them being located in rural areas where even getting phone signal is impossible, how can they be equipped with LCD projectors and e-resources in libraries? A college in Yelahanka which enrolled 3,500 students in just five years failed twice before finally receiving accreditation,” Swamy said.
 
 The   (UGC) has made it mandatory for colleges to receive accreditation in order to get grants. The state government, too, has put certain conditions in place. Only if a college receives a grade B or higher grade, will it be eligible to receive funds for research projects.
 
 “There is no other institution that accredits colleges offering general degree courses. No one is against accreditation but there is a problem with the process,” another principal said.
 
 Box: Institutions seek change in criteria
 
 Some government degree colleges have questioned NAAC’s method of assessment. The management of a government college and postgraduate study centre in Gadag (established in 2006) isn’t able to figure out why they failed in the IEQA stage. “Last year, we achieved a permanent status for our campus building on five-acre land. We have full-time faculty members and four guest lecturers. Even infrastructure wise, we are up to the mark. But there is no clarity on NAAC regulations and why our application was rejected,” said a college official.
 
 A college in Hosapete faced a similar problem. Sources said: “The criteria must change. IEQA is a computerized assessment process, and though we feed in all the required information, we never get any feedback on where we are lacking. Besides, six months is a long gap, and the fees must be reconsidered too. Even though the government is paying, Rs 28,000 is a lot of money.” 
 
 Box: Will consider stakeholders’ concerns: NAAC
 
 In a written response to TOI, NAAC said: The IEQA methodology consists of a schedule, which will ask for the organizational profile, specific quantitative information and other information concerning the institution’s performance requirements. An analysis of the same is used to establish IEQA status and score. Some state governments had sought relaxations in LoI and IEQA, and the issue was deliberated in one of the Executive Committee (EC) meetings”. The EC suggested that no relaxation be given. 
 
 NAAC regularly revises its methodologies. “We are in the process of reviewing the formats/tools and will consider the concerns raised by various stakeholders at the appropriate time,” the statement said.
 
