BHUBANESWAR: In a belated move, the serious fraud investigation office (SFIO), a specialised wing under union ministry of corporate affairs, geared up to probe alleged financial irregularities by Artha Tatwa (AT) Group, a  . The ministry had on April 9, 2015 entrusted   to investigate into financial aspects of the chit fund fraud almost a year after the   started its investigation following Supreme Court directive.

 A team of officers from SFIO in Delhi and Kolkata is scheduled to interrogate AT Group chief Pradeep Sethy inside Jharpada special jail here in the first week of February. The court of special chief judicial magistrate (CBI) here on January 13 permitted the SFIO to interrogate Sethy and four other functionaries of the Ponzi firm within a month.
 
 “We received the CBI court’s order copy on Tuesday. The SFIO officers will record the statements of Sethy and his four associates—Jyoti Prakash Joy Prakash, Srikrishna Padhi, Deepak Parekh and Manoj Kumar Pattnaik, who were at the helm of affairs of the company. At present, all the five persons are lodged in Jharpada jail. The court has instructed the jail superintendent to cooperate with the probe agency,” SFIO’s counsel Gyanaloka Mohanty told TOI. Mohanty said he is not authorized to comment as to why SFIO started its investigation late. “I heard, the SFIO already quizzed two AT Group directors, who were released on bail. SFIO will interrogate only those, who were holding positions as directors in the company and its sister concerns,” Mohanty said.
 
 While the CBI and enforcement directorate have been conducting separate inquiries into the chit fund scam of 44 companies, including AT Group, the SFIO was asked to chip in and find out the financial mismanagement and money trail. Sources said the ministry of corporate affairs engaged SFIO on the basis of a report by the state registrar of cooperative societies. After the chit fund scams surfaced in 2013-14, the state government had woken up and found that all those companies violated companied Act and cooperative societies Act. The state government then recommended the ministry to involve the SFIO, CBI sources said. 
 
 AT Group is accused of cheating investors of more than Rs 500 crore. The CBI so far arrested 18 persons, including   legislator Pravat Tripathy in connection with the scam.
 
