LUDHIANA: As centers has given nod to Jallikattu – a famous festival of Tamil Nadu in which men would show their strength by fighting with bulls, organisers of   sports festival (which is famous as Rural Olympics) are poised to be back with its eminent   this year.

 The Kila Raipur games have already been scheduled from February 17 to 19 at village Kila Raipur and after the news of approval to Jallikattu, with some amendments in the Prevision of Cruelty to Animals Act, organisers are excited against to make 2017 Kila Raipur sports festival a hit.
 
 Bullock cart race has always remained center of attraction, which also attracts several sports enthusiastic across the country and from other nations too. However after   banned Jallikattu and bullock cart races in the country in May 2014, organisers as well as sports enthusiasts were disappointed.
 
  
  
 Although,  , that organizes the sports festival have introduced horse cart race to compensate viewers, but it failed to bring the charm of bullock cart race.
 
 One of the organisers and a member of Grewal Sports Association, Jagbir Grewal said, “We are extremely excited as Jallikattu is getting approval by center. Now there would be no ban on bullock cart races. Kila Raipur sports festival has been scheduled and now we are awaiting formal orders.”
 
 It may be mentioned here that, after ban on bullock cart race, many prominent sponsors also get dishearten to support Rural Olympics. However now after the news of approval to Jallikattu, sponsor companies and bullock cart racers too are overjoyed.
 
 “Since morning I am getting calls from sponsor companies and different bullock cart racers, conveying wishes and sharing happiness. We really thank to the government of India for this” said Grewal.
 
 A bullock cart racer, Ranjeet Singh (66) said, “I have been participating in bullock cart race since when I was young and in this age too I am equally excited for the race. Kila Raipur Games and bullock cart race has become an inevitable part of us and now we all are waiting for the official announcement of bullock cart race.”
 
