KOTTAYAM: She is eight years old and her name is Kerala. No, we are not kidding. US citizens   and wife Brenna chose the state's name for their daughter because they were so enamoured by  . 

 While choosing a name for their baby parents usually aim for something trendy rather than traditional. But Charles and Brenna fell in love with the people and culture of Kerala so much that they decided to name their first born in memory of their Kerala visit. 
 
 The couple had come to Kerala in 2006, before they got married. "The hills, the lakes and the backwaters left an indelible mark on us. I even wrote a poem about Kerala. During the visit we made up our mind that we would name our first child after the beautiful state," said Kramer. They went back to the US, got married and their first child grew up as Kerala in Los Angeles. Recently, more than a decade after their first visit, the couple came to the state again, with Kerala and her younger brother, five-year-old Julian. 
 
 The visit was part of the couple's plan to travel around the world in a year. The project was named ' ' and their aim was to cover the seven continents and visit 18 countries in order to study the schooling and teaching methods in these regions.
 
 In France, they got in touch with one Michel, a travel guide. He too had a Kerala connection. Michel had an adopted son from the state, Manoj. Through Manoj they got in touch with his sister Manju and her husband Suresh of Cherppunkal in Kottayam. That is how the couple arrived in Kerala and stayed for about a month in Cherppunkal, a village in Kottayam. Kerala and Julian even got admission in a school in Bharananganam, where Manju's daughter Diya was studying. Kerala joined Class III while Julian was admitted in play school. "They went to the school together in the school bus. Since Kerala was the only foreigner in the school, she had to come out of her shell. The only problem she faced was with the Indian toilets, which she got adjusted later," Kramer said.
 
 Sr  , principal of the  , where the kids studied, said: "Kerala quickly picked up Malayalam and within a week she started speaking basic words and sentences." 
 
 "Staying with Manju's family was a lovely experience. We attended several local festivals and watched kathakali," Kramer said over the phone from Indonesia. The family had left the state and continued with their world tour after about a month's stay. 
 
 "We want to come back to Kerala and continue the education of my children at least for six more months there. It's a lovely place," he said.
 
 
 
