NAGPUR: The difference between India and Australia this series has been the ability to handle pressure. India came out on top every time they were put under pressure. Australia, in contrast, kept losing the initiative throughout. Sunday was no different. 

  (32, 36b, 6x4) and David Warner (53, 62b, 5x4) again provided a breezy start to the visitors. They added 60 in first ten overs after   won his third consecutive toss and batted again. However, Indian spinners - Axar Patel (10-0-38-3), Kuldeep Yadav (10-1-48-0) and Kedar Jadhav (10-0-48-1) - yet again choked the runs as the Australian middle order succumbed to pressure for the fourth time in the series. Eventually, they ended up scoring a below par 242-9 in their 50 overs in the last One-dayer on a relaid Jamtha wicket on Sunday.
 
 Indian batsmen - led by   (125, 109b, 11x4, 5x6) - then showed their Australian counterparts how to build the innings and finish off the job. The chase was completed with 43 balls and seven wickets intact. Rohit, who completed his 14th hundred and 6000 runs in ODIs, hit his sixth hundred against Australia. 
 
 The opening pair of Rohit and   (61, 74b, 7x4) had their third consecutive century stand (124) of the series. It was also the eighth opening-wicket century stand for India this year - the most by any country in 2017 and Rahane has been involved in five of those. After Rahane's dismissal, Rohit continued the good work in the company of   (39, 55b, 2x4) and added 99 for the second wicket. By the time both gifted their wickets to Adam Zampa, the match was over. Kedar Jadhav and Manish Pandey completed the formalities. 
 
 Rohit and Rahane lit up the Jamtha ground with some breathtaking strokeplay. Their driving was of the highest quality. All the eight boundaries they hit in the first ten overs were testimony of their class and form. Rohit took 15 balls to get off the mark. However, once he straight drove   for his first boundary, there was no stopping the 'Hit Man'. He treated the crowd with some delightful shots on both sides of the wicket. 
 
 Rahane, who began aggressively, took the back seat and rotated the strike well. The Mumbai batsmen ran well between the wickets but yet again missed a great chance to score hundred, something he can learn from Rohit and Shikhar Dhawan. The wicket was playing well, the outfield was fast and the Australian attack wasn't a threatening one. 
 
 While the end was good for India, the start was far from ideal. Warner and Finch again pushed India on the back foot with their aggressive and calculative batting. Kohli's men, however, showed calmness and executed their plans to perfection. 
 
 With pacers Umesh Yadav and Mohammad Shami going for plenty in Bangalore, India switched back to Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Jasprit Bumrah. But unlike previous matches, Bumrah struggled to find his rhythm and conceded seven boundaries in his first four overs. 
 
 Just when the Warner-Finch pair was looking to accelerate, Hardik Pandya broke the threatening stand. The spin duo of Kuldeep and Jadhav then stopped the flow of boundaries, while Patel attacked. Kuldeep, in particular, bowled a good line and used his variations well. Jadhav, on the other hand, bowled very slow and made things difficult for Warner and Smith. 
 
 The Australian captain eventually got frustrated and was trapped in front while trying to sweep Jadhav's straighter one. Patel then got into the act. Warner tried to take on the left-arm spinner, only to offer a simple running catch to Manish Pandey after completing his fifty. Peter Handscomb succumbed while playing a slog sweep off Patel.
 
 Travis Head (42, 59b, 4x4) and Marcus Stoinis (46, 63b, 4x4, 1x6) added 87 for the fifth wicket but never looked like taking the game away from India. Bumrah, who had a forgettable first spell, came back strongly and dried the runs in his second spell. He trapped Stoinis in front with a full-length delivery to further push back the Aussies.
 
