CHANDIGARH: The Indian men's compound archery team won gold after defeating Colombia in the final of the   championship in Shanghai on Saturday. The team, comprising of  ,   Srither and  , prevailed 226-221 against their Colombian counterparts. Amanjeet's journey to the top is something what fairytales are made of. Hailing from Malari village in Sirsa district, the 23-year-old was selected in the national team after just 22 days of practice as a serious archer.

 Amanjeet comes from a humble background; his father ­   ­ is a farmer and the family moved from Malari to Sirsa when Amanjeet was 14.
 
 "We moved to Sirsa for Amanjeet and his sister's better education. He used to often visit the nearby stadium and see youngsters practice with a bow and arrow. He got fascinated by that. "That's when I decided to enroll him under RS Mehra ­ the archery coach at the Sirsa stadium. He gave trials and immediately got selected. Then he practiced for 22 days under Mehra ji, who decided that Aman should give the junior national trials. He passed the trials and was selected in the national junior team," Nazar said.
 
 It's a dream for any sportsperson to represent the country at the international stage; and the precociously talented Amanjeet got the opportunity within a year of playing the sport.
 
 Seeing Amanjeet practice,  , who is the head archery coach at Punjabi University, Patiala, offered to train the youngster.
 
 "Initially, he (Amanjeet) was apprehensive of moving to Patiala, but then after a while he decided the best for his career would be to make a move. At Patiala, he honed his skills under coach Jiwanjot and after that there was no looking back as his career moved at a fast pace," Nazar stated.
 
 Amanjeet is pursuing BA (final year) from Punjabi University. His father, mother ( ) and younger sister ( ) stay with him in Patiala in a rented accommodation.
 
 The gold medal-winning feat has made the family immensely happy and they feel their sacrifices have finally been fruitful.
 
 "Our family is really proud of Aman's achievement. This is the result of the years of sacrifices he has made and also we as a family has made," Nazar reflected.
 
 India could have ended with another medal on Saturday when Abhishek Verma and Jyoti Surekha Vennam reached the bronze medal playoff match in the compound mixed doubles event. However, they lost the tie 151-153 to the USA team.
 
