LUCKNOW: Every tenth Indian suffering with   (OA) has a gym injury to blame as its cause, said experts who gathered at the first National   on Osteoarthritis hosted by King George’s   recently. 

 OA is the commonest form of arthritis, a debilitating, chronic, progressive musculoskeletal disease that affects over 35.8 crore Indians. It is subdivided into primary OA that occurs due to age-related degeneration of joints and secondary that is an outcome of injury. Experts at OACON pointed out that injuries sustained in the gym or while exercising have been emerging as an important risk factor for OA. Prevalence of secondary OA is about 70% among all cases. 
 
 “On exploring the reasons for secondary OA in patients, we noted that at least one-fifth of patients had suffered injury inside the gym. On an overall scale, gym injuries would account for OA in 10% of patients,” said Prof RN Srivastava, faculty at orthopaedic department,  . 
 
 Former head of physical medicine and rehabilitation department, KGMU, Prof Srivastava added, “It is a proven fact that injuries were destined to translate into OA. Injuries caused in the gym or while exercising are an upcoming area of research in India.” 
 
 Citing an individual research, Prof Ajai Singh of KGMU orthopaedic department noted that 16% of patients reporting to them with complaints had gym-related injuries. 
 
 Head of rheumatology department, KGMU, Prof   stated that there was dearth of evidence on the count. “Fewer persons have studied the reasons behind secondary OA in India but injury and obesity were the biggest reasons for it,” he said. Explaining why injuries led to OA, he said, “Injury causes inflammation of the joints and tissues which triggers a sequence of events leading to progressive articular surface damage.” 
 
 Prof Ajai Singh said, “Damage to the bone surface and connecting tissues that cushion and stabilize bones of a joint like the knee or ankle is what arthritis is all about. The injury often comes in addition to deterioration caused due to aging." 
 
 Citing the example of squatting, a common exercise recommended for toning the abdomen area, Prof Das said, “This exercise may lead to loss of balance making a person fall and cause injury. The extent of damage may be guessed from the fact that pressure on the joints increases seven times when a person squats. This means that if a person weighs 70 kilograms, the weight felt by joints in the lower limb will be 490 kilograms when he/she squats”. 
 
 Experts pointed out that gym injuries should not be ignored because they involve muscles and soft tissues which take longer to heal in comparison to fractures. Also, the repair remains fragile even after healing and ignorance can cause a repeat injury which means a higher degree of damage. 
 
 “Injury eventually becomes a vulnerable spot for inflammation of joints which is destined to affect the joint involved,” said Prof Srivastava adding, "healing takes time as they involve muscles and soft tissues. Repair remains fragile even after healing and ignoring them can cause more injuries." 
 
 Activities that may lead to injury include running on treadmill, jogging and jumping. Types of injury that may occur include Knee injuries: damage to ligaments around the knee; ankle injuries like acute sprains, soft tissue injuries and shoulder injuries leading to frozen movement. 
 
 
