CHANDIGARH: The Centre's failure to release the second instalment of Rs 32 crore under   to Chandigarh for the last three months will mar the new academic session, with children not getting books on time.

 In the session beginning April 2017, nearly one lakh students will not receive their books on time as the order for these books has not been placed with the NCERT due to lack of money.
 
 All categories of students, (normal, blind and visually impaired), will be affected. Every year, the order for books is placed with National Council for Education Research and Training (NCERT) in October or November. NCERT delivers the books by April and May on first come, first serve basis.
 
 According to approved outlay for free textbooks by the Project Approval Board, the cost of books to be ordered for around 1,08,631 students of classes I to VIII is Rs 2.09 crore.
 
 Books that are ordered include normal textbooks, Braille books, and books in large print for  .
 
 The second installment was awaited in September, 2016. "The order for books has to be placed in October, November. But this year, we could not place the order since there is no budget from the Centre yet and the state cannot help since SSA in Chandigarh is 100% funded by the Centre. Therefore, delivery is likely to get delayed. We will try to work out something to avoid inconvenience," said a senior official of the Accounts department, education department, Chandigarh.
 
 After three months of waiting, the ministry of human resource and development, on Wednesday, transferred Rs 54 lakh out of the expected Rs 32 crore to SSA Chandigarh, said director, school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar.
 
 However, the amount has been stated to be insufficient. All SSA projects have been put on hold for the last three months, including salaries of thousands of teachers and employees.
 
 That being the case, he said, the money is likely to be used for activities in schools because it is far too less for other things like paying salaries of teachers and ordering books. "The amount is very less and we are yet to decide what we can do in this much. We will hold a meeting soon," Brar said.
 
 Arvind Rana, president, SSA Teachers Welfare Association (SSATWA), Chandigarh said, "It is more than a mistake. It is a violation of mandatory provisions of combined SSA-RTE Act as it is the responsibility of the Centre to provide timely budget to Chandigarh to pay salary to teachers and order NCERT text books. The act of the Government of India will put studies of poor students in danger. The act should invite multiple litigations in high court and Supreme Court. Since last year, the Union government has changed budget sharing norms of SSA and taken 100 ℅ responsibility of all UTs."
 
 Meanwhile, teachers, who have not been paid for the last three months are also rather agitated.
 
 —Outlay approved by PAB for free textbooks (in lakhs)
 
 Book type | students (Classes I – VIII) | Amount
 
 Free text books | 1,08,539 | 20,976,000
 
 Braille Book | 5 | 1250
 
 Large Print Books | 87 | 19,100
 
 Total | 108631 | 20,996,400
 
