We recently met   at a hotel in Gurgaon's Sector 29. The rapper had a show in   in an hour and we decided to take him to a nearby location for a shoot. To our surprise, he jumped on the driver's seat of our car and said, "I haven’t driven in Gurgaon in a while. Let me drive you around the city."

 As we drove towards  , the Delhi-based rapper opened up about his memories in the area. "I have had so many fights with bouncers in the clubs of this area. I'm talking about 2005-06 when I could never get inside the posh clubs on MG Road. Stag entry allowed nahin thi aur Rs100 le kar bhi koi bouncer entry nahin deta tha. So I became friends with the promoters here. I would perform at their clubs for free and that is how I would get entry to those places to party," he told us. But he hasn't frequented the area in quite a while now.
 
 He said, "The MG Road area is not the fancy party hub it once used to be. Jab yeh area achha aur safe nahin raha, toh maine bhi aana band kar diya." And just like MG Road, Gurgaon itself has changed over the years, and so has its name. But not for Raftaar, who said, "They can name it Gurugram or Guru-ghantaal, par hamare liye toh Gurgaon hi rahega." As we stopped at IFFCO Chowk for a quick photoshoot, Raftaar lamented that he doesn't get a chance to walk on these busy streets anymore.
 
 Raftaar said, "I was never a part of high society. South Ex wala kaam nahin, Chandni Chowk wala kaam tha mera, very desi. So the life I live now is quite a contrast. It's good, I love it. But now, I don't get to do a lot of stuff I like. I can't visit the malls or clubs in Gurgaon like I once did, or roam the markets of Delhi anymore. I come here mostly for gigs or to meet friends. Par woh pehle jaise sadak par ghoomna ab possible nahin. I feel I have lost that connect and association with the ground."
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 He added, "In my initial days as a rapper, when I used to perform here, I coined a catchphrase to open my acts – "Shor mach gaya gaon mein, Raftaar aa gaya Gurgaon mein."
 
 
 The conversation soon veered to a recent development that the rapper has been vocal about. In January, we had reported that several girls' colleges in DU had decided to ban rappers with "sexist lyrics" from their fests, and Raftaar was also in the list. Reacting to the ban, Raftaar said, "What do I say about that? I have done two shows in DU after that ban. I guess they forgot about the ban! I never felt unwelcome in any DU college, girls' or coed. It’s just that when people get a chance to speak, they tend to exaggerate. A gig might not work out for some reason, par baad mein aap keh do ki humne nahin bulaya kyunki unke gaane cheap hain. And talking about cheap lyrics, I don't understand that. I have songs where things have been said about girls, but not the song quoted in that story. The song quoted in that story has the following lyrics, 'Nazrein gandi rakhne walon, ABCD jaano matlab ban ke gentleman pata lo, chhori na taado matlab'. How is that demeaning to women? That is actually telling the guys to behave. And as for saying that the line 'chhora chhori party mein re, dhup chik dhup chik ho ri se' is suggestive, that's not true. For me, 'dhup chik' means the beat. When English songs play in clubs, most people just understand the beats, not the lyrics. That's what I meant by 'dhup chik.' If someone feels it means something else, toh woh unki soch ki galti hai. The funniest part is that this ban came after I sang 'Dhaakad', which celebrates women wrestlers, who are young female icons."
 
 
  We had reported in January that DU’s girls’ colleges had banned rappers with sexist lyrics from their fests. But Raftaar says that the ban surprised him, especially after he sang 'Dhaakad'
 
 
 Raftaar also said that it was the individual opinion of certain people and not the belief of entire colleges. He told us, "Ek college mein kisi ko mauka mila toh usne bol diya. I received a number of messages from DU girls on Facebook, apologizing and saying they didn’t agree with the ban. They said they were individual opinions and not everyone thought like that. I have been doing college shows regularly. I did one in Noida just a couple of weeks ago and two in Delhi this fest season. Those people wouldn’t get associated with me if I was wrong."
 
 After the impromptu drive around Gurgaon came to an end soon, the rapper asked someone from his team to click a picture after he got ready. We asked if it was for social media, and he replied, "Arre   toh bhool sakta hoon, but yeh nahin. I have to send this home." By 'home', he meant his wife  , whom he married in December. Raftaar admited that his wife is quite particular about what he wears for gigs. "I don’t care about what I wear. I usually perform in track suits and beanies. But my wife is very particular about how I look. So I have to send her a picture after getting ready for every performance. Consider this the boss' approval."
  
  
 
 
