Gurgaon: Four persons, all claiming to be doctors, have been booked for conducting   illegally at a private hospital in Gurgaon. Police said the racket was busted when three members of the gang involved in the crime fell into a trap and attempted to terminate the pregnancy of a decoy patient.

 Two medical staff who claimed themselves to be doctors — Jasprit Kaur and   — have already been arrested at Sujata Hospital in   while Dr Arif has been detained for interrogation. Dr Kavita Yadav, the owner of the hospital and suspected kingpin of the racket, is still at large. Raids are on to nab him.
 
 Elaborating on the breakthrough, police said a trap was laid following a tip-off on   abortions being carried out at Sujata Hospital. A health worker, posing as a customer, first approached Kavita at the hospital on Monday. She told her that her sister-in-law, who had already given birth to three daughters, wanted to terminate her baby, anticipated to be another girl.
 
 Kavita allegedly quoted Rs 25,000 as fee for the abortion if the pregnancy was up to 12 weeks. And if the pregnancy was more than 12 weeks, the charge was supposed to be higher. Kavita asked the ‘customer’ to bring the patient in the evening for the operation. ACP (crime) Mahender Verma then called a woman cop, who was three months into pregnancy, from Faridabad to be a decoy patient. The health worker took the woman cop to the hospital on Tuesday evening while a crack team, comprising deputy civil surgeon Dr Saryu Sharma, food and drug controller Amandeep Chauhan, secretary of   (Gurgaon chapter) Shyam Sundar and cops from the crime unit, followed the duo. 
 
  Jasprit, Jyoti and Dr Arif carried out some preliminary tests and said the ‘patient’ was five-month pregnant. The deal was finalised for Rs 30,000, which the police had marked with ink to catch the offenders red-handed. As soon as the trio took the woman cop inside for the procedure and gave her a drip of anesthesia, the crack team raided the premises and nabbed the three persons. The marked currency and six misoprostol tablets were also recovered.
 
