CHENNAI:   was one of the first players the   ( ) had scouted for the   team back in 2014. For the past three years, the Manipuri teenager has undergone rigorous training and has become a vital cog in side’s midfield ahead of the  , scheduled to begin on October 6.

 Apart from marshalling the midfield and playing the role of an anchor to perfection, he also brings a sense of calmness to the side. He had showed his composure with a last-gasp penalty against Saudi Arabia last year and is the nerve-centre of the side during pressure situations. No wonder then that he is highly rated by coach  .
 
 The holding midfielder is now ready to launch himself when India begin their World Cup campaign against the US on October 6. “We know the importance of the tournament and we have preparing well for the tournament. There is a bit of expectations on us but we are not feeling any pressure. In fact, we are motivated to do well. We are working on a few weaknesses and hopefully, we can rectify those before the tournament,” Wangjam told TOI on Tuesday.
 
 Apart from providing stability in the midfield, Wangjam can quickly march forward, resulting in India’s swift transitions from defence to attack. He credits India’s exposure tours to Europe and Mexico for his aggressive nature. “Earlier, we would be afraid to face strong opponents. But now, we don’t mind seeing eye-to-eye with them. The exposure tours have taught us to play good and aggressive football. At the same time, we don’t want to make silly errors,” Wangjam said
 
 The medio, who idolises Real Madrid and Germany midfielder Toni Kroos for his composed self, informed that he had started his career as a right winger before coaches such as Rob Baan and Wim Koevermans tweaked his playing position and brought him to midfield. “I absolutely love playing in the midfield and I am really comfortable. In fact, all I worry now is about the opposition. I want to play against strong opponents and lose rather than playing against weak opponents and win,” said Wangjam, who is the only son and has three sisters.
 
 For Wangjam, football was his first love. He says his family, at times, would not allow him to play in the fear that he would fracture his leg. “In the beginning I would feel a bit frustrated because they won’t allow me. Slowly, when I started to perform well in districts, they realized that I have potential. I also started to explain to them how things work. When I finally got selected in the AIFF academy, they started backing me whole-heartedly. I feel I am really lucky to have such supportive parents,” Wangjam concluded.
 
 
