KOLKATA: For Jharna Goswami it was an anxious wait on Friday afternoon. Pacing up and down in the drawing room of the   apartment she would occasionally cast a furtive glance at the wall clock. Much like the rest of the motley crowd that had gathered outside the arrival area of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose International Airport on Friday evening, Jhulan’s mom was eagerly waiting to welcome back her back.

 Her day had begun early on Friday as she made a long and tedious journey from   to Jhulan’s Dum Dum Park flat with a bag full of grocery. “Jhulan asked me to come here as she has a few engagements here and won’t be able to go to Chakdaha now,” Jhulan’s mom told TOI.
 
 She had just finished rustling up fish curry with coriander and dal for  . “She was away from home for long. She must be craving for home-cooked food,” Jharna said.
 
 Jhulan’s siblings Nontu (Kunal) and Bulti (Jhumpa) were not able to come to Kolkata because of their office engagements. “They both were very upset when India lost the final against England. In fact the whole of Chakdaha was disappointed. My neighbours had gathered in my house to watch the final. They had plans to bring out a procession once India won. But all went in vain,” she informed.
 
 “The whole locality was quiet after the loss. Felt like someone had died. This loss was way more painful than that in 2005,” Jharna choked.
 
 “It was very sad moment, I often used to tease Babul (Jhulan) that your team never wins and she used to get angry. On the day of the final I was so tense that I kept standing on our veranda. I could not bear to watch the match. It was so disappointing in the end.”
 
 As the doorbell rang at 6 pm, an excited Jharna rushed to the door to greet Jhulan with a big hug — surely the warmest welcome the Indian all-rounder received since returning to the country.
 
 Jhulan, on her part look relaxed. Grinning from ear to ear, she seemed to have got over the pain of the final loss. “It was tough to accept that we lost the match despite getting so close. But this World Cup campaign has given women’s cricket a new life,” Jhulan said, while sipping a cup of hot tea.
 
 “This World Cup final is way different from the first time we reached final in 2005. Back then, people hardly knew that India were playing in  . Matches were not telecast and there was little media coverage.
 
 “This year the matches were televised, people were following the matches, celebrities tweeted about our achievements. The media coverage helped us,” Jhulan said.
 
 With accolades galore from every nook and corner Jhulan feels that the biggest motivation for the team was meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “He followed our matches and that is certainly a big thing,” Jhulan added.
 
 “It feels great to see that people are celebrating our World Cup journey and not criticizing our defeat in the final,” she added.
 
 Asked about her plans now that she is back home, Jhulan said: “I will take a break now. May be go on a holiday.” She will be going to Chakdah on August 15 to attend a felicitation organised by the Chakdaha Municipal Corporation.
 
