KOLKATA: The 22-year-old wrist spinner has had the upper hand against Australian opener   so far. Warner happened to be Kuldeep's first Test victim when he had the left-handed opener caught at slip to cut short a promising knock in Dharamsala six months ago. Then, in the first ODI, Kuldeep again forced Warner into a false shot to have him caught behind by Dhoni.

 “I guess he (Warner) feels a lot of pressure while batting against me and that makes me think I can get him out anytime,” Kuldeep said on Wednesday, the eve of the second ODI against   at the Eden Gardens.
 
 The left-arm chinaman from Kanpur, who bagged a crucial 4/68 on his Test debut and then 2/33 in the rain-curtailed ODI in Chennai, is confident of continuing his good show in Kolkata. “There's no pressure on me and I enjoy bowling to him (Warner). I have my plans in place and will try to get him out again,” Kuldeep said.
 
 
 
 
 He rates skipper Steve Smith as the toughest nut to crack in the Aussie line-up. “I have seen he (Smith) reads me well in Tests. He knows how to steal singles and prefers to play more on the leg-side,” Kuldeep remarked.
 
 Kuldeep has developed a good combination with leg-spinner Yuzvendra Chahal and is enjoying bowling in tandem with him. “It's a rare instance (two wrist spinners bowling together).In junior cricket, too, I never had another wrist spinner operating from the other end,” he said. ”Conventional spinners have only one or two variations but wrist spinners have more qualities to deceive the batsmen. We are both attacking bowlers and thus there are more chance of taking wickets,” Kuldeep felt.
 
 Kuldeep and Chahal are getting an extended stint with the team in place of the regular spin duo of R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja (Jadeja has been called up as a cover for the injured Axar Patel). “Yes there's a lot of responsibility along with expectations. But it's all about making most of this great experience as that will make it easier for us in future,” Kuldeep said.
 
 
