Ludhiana: Basti Jodhewal police arrested a man from Kapurthala for duping people on the pretext of getting them government jobs. Fake ID cards of different government departments, registers and stamps were recovered from him. The accused, Makesh Jaggi of Kapurthala, works as a stenographer in the mini-secretariat. He allegedly used fake ID cards of the education department, DC office to cheat people. He also issued fake appointment letters to make it look more authentic. 

 In his police complaint, Vijay Kumar of Gurmail Park, Tibba Road said the accused, Mahesh was a live-in-partner of his niece for the last six months. He said they met through Facebook and in time, Mahesh moved in with his niece, who is a widow. He said Mahesh told her he did a clerical job in the judicial complex and used her to trap him (Kumar) on the pretext of getting Kumar’s 22-year-old son a government job in the DC office, Ludhiana. He took Rs 3.5 lakh for this. 
 
 He said the accused cheated a number of people who knew his live-in partner. Kamalpreet Singh of Kotkapura said he took Rs 3 lakh from him to get him a place in the health department and Rs 1.5 lakh was to be paid after receiving the appointment letter. He said Kamalpreet’s brother Gupreet also paid him Rs 1.5 lakh to get a clerical job in the judicial complex with Rs 2.5 lakh to be paid after receiving the appointment letter. 
 
 Another woman, Parveena Rani of Kakowal Road, a friend of Mahesh’s live-in partner, said she gave him Rs 2.5 lakh for a computer operator’s job at the office of the deputy commissioner of police (DCP). Explaining the modus operandi of the accused, Kumar said he would give a date for the interview to the candidate, but a day before the interview, a woman would call and say senior officials have gone on leave and the interview had been postponed. Meanwhile, Mahesh would convince people that he would get them recruited without an interview. He also gave them appointment letters with fake stamps and signatures. 
 
 On the date of joining, he would give his victim a signed register which showed that the seat they have been recruited on is not vacant and they are therefore being sent on 15-day medical leave. However, it would be specified that they would get their salary from the date mentioned in the appointment letter. 
 
 Kumar got suspicious when the date of joining was repeatedly delayed. “Mahesh got us to sign on a common register from which he got contacts of the others he conned. After talking to the others we realised he is looting us. After that, we approached ward president of Lok Insaaf Party Sanjeev Verma. He listened to our problem and made a plan to trap him,” said Kumar. 
 
 Sanjeev Verma collaborated with another of his victims to trap him. “Parveen, impersonating as someone else, called Mahesh and said he wants to meet him for a job and asked him to come to his house on Kakowal road. On Wednesday afternoon, the accused came to the house and found everyone he had cheated present at the spot. He bolted at the sight, leaving his car outside the house,” Verma said.
 
 Police arrived at the spot after being informed and searched the car to find fake ID cards of the education department, Government School, Kapurthala, fake stamps, registered and fake official letters. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP-East) Pawanjit said police have registered case under section 420 (cheating), 419 (punishment for cheating by personation), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged 1[document or electronic record]) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. The accused was arrested late on Wednesday evening. 
 
 Police collusion alleged
 
 Accusing a few persons in the police department of being hand in glove with the accused, his live-in partner Mamta Rani said she accompanied the victims and her relatives to the police station to lodge a complaint. But two head constables of Basti Jodhewal police, Balraj and Surinder Singh kept her in custody overnight to pressurise them into withdrawing the complaint. Vijar Kumar also alleged that the accused made ASI Sukhwinder Singh, in-charge of police post, Bus stand to call Basti Jodhewal police asking them not to register a case. ACP Pawanjit said, “I have asked an official to submit an inquiry report on this.”
 
 
