VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Chandrababu Naidu on Monday urged the Telugu diaspora to invest big in his dream capital Amaravati. He also exhorted young IT professionals from AP working in the   to set up firms in   and other parts of the state. 

 Naidu, who met   in   in California and later addressed a meeting of   in Iowa on Monday, had a piece of advice for them. "One should never forget their motherland. Today, Amaravati is in dire need of investments and it is time for Telugus living abroad to do their bit," he said.
 
 He recalled that when MNCs started their operations in Hyderabad, infrastructure in the region had improved tremendously. "Now, Hyderabad is one of the best cities in India. The same will happen with Amaravati once MNCs set their foot in the new capital. I am confident about that," the CM said.
 
 On the fourth day of his US tour, Naidu had a busy schedule where he met scientists and experts in farm sector. He said AP was staring at a massive crisis when the state was bifurcated. He said the crisis could be viewed as an opportunity if Telugus residing in the US invested in Amaravati.
 
 He said that AP will be on a par with California in terms of development by 2050. "Our aim is to become one of the top three states in the country by 2020 and become India's top state by 2029. To achieve this, we have prepared elaborate plans," he said. Naidu also explained the policies and schemes that are being implemented in the state.
 
 "Telugus have immense talent and our people are excelling all across the world," he said, drawing loud cheer from the Telugu NRI entrepreneurs. He asked them to come up with innovative ideas and help his government rebuild the state. 
 
 "Telugus are role models and my government will help if you (NRIs) come with start-up ideas innovatively," Naidu added. Naidu also urged Telugu women NRIs to invest in AP. 
 
 One should never forget their motherland. Today, Amaravati is in dire need of investments and it is time for Telugus living abroad to do their bit 
 
 One should never forget their motherland. Today, Amaravati is in dire need of investments and it is time for Telugus living abroad to do their bit.
 
