For Hyderabadis, the ‘stand up for   in theatres’ rule got real when two guys who did not do so ended up getting arrested this weekend! The incident that took place at a multiplex in   on Saturday has sent shock waves among moviegoers, especially since the arrests were made possible by a mere phonecall by a “vigilante”. “That means on a bad day, with just a small act of defiance you can find yourself being dragged out by a cop, and worse, sitting in a lock-up!” says Abhishek*, who was at the theatre where this incident took place. Shaken by the latest developments, Hyderabad’s movie lovers — especially the ones who were under the impression that they can get away with being a little defiant, or even lazy — are now grappling with what they call a “grim reality”. This law can no longer be taken ‘lite’, as Hyderabadis often wont to do.
we now stand in attention more out of fear, than out of love for the nation: terrified movie-goers 
 Recalling the funny confusion that ensued at the screening of Rana-starrer Ghazi on Sunday, Kaushik* a college- goer says, “The navy officers sing the National Anthem in one of the scenes in the movie. There was that awkward moment of confusion when people started looking at each other, wondering whether they should stand up or not. I know that is not part of the mandatory rule, but as soon as some enthu cutlets stood to attention, everyone else too stood up, slowly. I too followed suit because I did not want to be confronted by some hooligan.” 
 In fact, many confess that they now stand up out of compulsion and fear. “We don’t have a choice now, do we, when patriotism has been turned into tokenism,” says a vexed Ngo worker, Aditya*. But that negates the whole purpose, points out others. “Since I was a child, I have been standing up for the anthem, voluntarily, because I love my country. I do believe that we are blessed to be in a country like ours. But I also believe that forced patriotism is not right. Forced anything leads to revolt,” says 
 24-year-old entrepreneur, Kishore*. 
 “This kind of forced patriotism isn’t instilling any national pride in me. There is a big difference when the national anthem is being sung while hoisting the flag on Independence Day as opposed to when it’s played before La La Land. I rise from my seat only to follow the crowd and to avoid being roughed up by vigilantes, or out of the fear of being called “anti-national”,” says Shruti, an engineer, adding, “This weekend’s incident is proof that harassment in the name of patriotism is on rise and people are just losing their minds. Take the example of Salil Chaturvedi. The wheelchair-bound writer and disability rights activist was assaulted for not standing up while the national anthem being played at a multiplex in Goa.” 
 the vigilantes spare no one, not even those who cannot stand up 
 Swaroop*, a photographer, shares, “I had fractured my leg, and obviously couldn’t stand up. someone actually walked up to me to asked me threateningly, ‘Why didn’t you stand up?!’ When I showed him the cast on my leg, the man retorted: ‘Then, why did you come for a movie?’” there have been cases of harassment by vigilantes 
 reported on support groups for the physically challenged, as well.
 “As much as I love my country and I am proud of it, I am not proud of the current state of affairs. We should first be more concerned about making our cinema halls more accessible to the disabled,” says a wheelchair- bound Hyderabadi.
 
