GURUGRAM: Dejected over the “lack of response from the district administration”, a parents’ group from Delhi Public School-Ghaziabad (DPS-G) in Palam Vihar met  , state president of   (BJYM), on Friday. 

 Following the meeting, the   said they were called by sub-divisional magistrate Bharat Bhushan on Saturday to discuss the issue; however, the meeting ended inconclusively.
 
 The parents, who met Yadav around 11am at his DLF-2 office on Friday, said they appealed to the BJYM state president to “put pressure” on the school to roll back the “exorbitant   hike”. “Mr Yadav acted promptly and called an officer on special duty at the chief minister’s office and asked him to look into our complaints,” said Vineeta, a parent. 
 
 After the meeting with Yadav, parents said they received a call from   Bharat Bhushan, asking them to visit him on Saturday. “On Saturday, we visited the SDM’s office. About 200 to 300 parents had gone to his office but a delegation of around five people attended the meeting and listed our grievances,” one of the parents, Yashesh Yadav, said.
 
 “He also called two officials from the school management who were asked about the fee  . Nothing new was discussed in the meeting and parents failed to get a respite,” Yashesh said. 
 
 Last year, the school changed its name from Chiranjiv Bharti School to DPS-G. Citing an association with a “big name”, the school, according to parents, hiked tuition fee by four times.
 
 “I had been paying Rs 48,000 annually to the school for my two children studying here. Now the fee has been hiked up to Rs 1,62,000. Isn’t it too much to ask for?” Ajay Yadav, a parent, complained.
 
 Earlier this week, when TOI spoke to DPS-G principal Deepika Sharma, she asserted that the school had spent over Rs 1 crore for training of teachers besides bearing plenty of other expenses. “The allegations that the school has not been registered under its new name are malicious. We have sent all the relevant documents to the state education department. It is from their end that there has been a delay,” she had said.
 
 Meanwhile, the parents pleaded helplessness. “We have met so many people from the administration but to no avail,” said Yashesh. 
 
 
