HYDERABAD: A boy who went missing from the Old City a week ago, was sodomized and   by a teenager.

 Once convinced that the boy died, the 17-year-old attacker, himself a victim of   about a year ago, tied the boy's hands and feet and dumped the body in a corner of the terrace of the local  .
 
 Tension was palpable in the bustling Barkas area on Thursday, after the body of the 10-year-old victim was being lowered into the grave.
 
 “It is horrifying to see my youngest son lying dead. We had weaved so many dreams around him, but now everything is shattered,“ said a sobbing Jameel Khan, who had gone to the cops many times for help in tracing the missing boy in the past one week.
 
 South Zone deputy com missioner of police   confirmed that the boy was   by the teenager of the same locality. “The accused confessed that he lured the victim with chocolates and took him to the terrace of the school, where he sodomised the boy,“ Satyanarayana said.
 
 After the victim threatened that he would tell his parents about the out rage, the teenager, perhaps out of fear, picked up a rod and attack ed the victim thrice on his head and once on his shoulder. “The accused tied the boy's hands and legs and abandoned him on the terrace,“ said the senior police official.
 
 The boy's parents lodged police complaint and distributed his photographs across the locality in the hope of finding him. The police on their part examined a 20-second CCTV footage and questioned locals. In the video, the boy was seen walking with the accused near the Barkas playground. “Armed with the lead, we sought his parents help who identified the accused. During the interrogation, the accused initially denied his involvement, but later confessed that he murdered the boy. He further disclosed that he lured the boy to the terrace of the school, sodomised and killed him,“ Satyanarayan added.
 
 According to Chandrayangutta station officer Y Prakash Reddy, the accused used metal pipes to kill the boy. “He mercilessly hit on the head of his victim,'' Prakash Reddy told TOI.
 
 The victim had gone missing on June 28 after leaving home telling his parents that he was going to the Barkas mela.
 
