THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Former chief minister and veteran CPM leader   has put the LDF government in a spot by questioning its stand on   project. He demanded a white paper on the status of the project, which he said was still 'unclear and mysterious'. 

 The former CM's demand came at a time when chief minister   is all set to inaugurate the berth piling work at Vizhinjam on June 1, a major event among a host of other programmes planned as part of LDF government's first anniversary. Reminding the government of its promise in the election manifesto 'to rework on the project' through a submission in the assembly on Monday, Achuthanandan said it was not mandatory for the government to continue with any project the previous governments have initiated. 
 
 "Allegations of corruption and lack of clarity had been raised against the agreement worked out by Oommen Chandy government. The LDF had promised that it would rework on the agreement, terming it as against the state's interests," he said.
 
 Replying to Achuthanandan's submission, ports minister   said a decision on the demand for a white paper on the project could be taken only after a government-level discussion.
 
  "The government, at present is committed to implement this big project which will be a milestone in Kerala's development history, in a time-bound manner," he said.
 
 The minister also said that the financial transactions as per the agreement will be audited and measures are being taken to initiate a concurrent audit to avoid irregularities and lapses. Besides the constructions are being monitored by an independent agency, he added.
 
 While, in his submission, Achuthanandan said that the construction of break-water in Vizhinjam with concrete blocks instead of rocks was in violation of the agreement. "There are doubts regarding the works and decisions related to the project, which calls for a white paper that can help reveal the facts," he said.
 
 He also alleged that the Rs 7,525 crore project, out of which Rs 5,071 crore (68%) was to be borne by the state government, was intended to benefit Prime Minister  's close friend Gautam Adani, 'who, after bearing only 32% of the project cost, will be able to lay his hand on a major chunk of the income and profit, once the project is realised'. 
 
