MUMBAI/VISHAKHAPATNAM: The   arrested a senior Mumbai-based income   official and five others including the vice-chairman of a leading   in an alleged Rs 2-crore   on Tuesday night. 

 The   tax commissioner (appeals), BB Rajendra Prasad, had allegedly accepted the amount to pass a favourable order on an appeal filed by a trust under the Essar group. The CBI’s anti-corruption bureau said it had already recovered the bribe amount of approximately Rs 1.70 crore. An Essar spokesperson denied the allegations made by the CBI.
 
 Prasad, a 1992 batch Indian Revenue Service officer who is currently in charge of appeals in Mumbai, was arrested from his house in Visakhapatnam while he was on leave. 
 
 He was to attend the marriage of a close family member on May 13, sources said. He was posted in Chennai and transferred to Mumbai a year ago.
 
 Apart from Prasad, Essar Power vice-chairman Pradeep Mittal was arrested in Mumbai along with an accountant for the group, Vipin Bajpai. Others arrested from Mumbai are chartered accountant Shreyas Parikh, a partner in GK Choksi which handles the affairs of Balaji Trust – in which Essar Investments is a trustee -- and Manish Jain of Maa Ambe Jewellers, who allegedly took delivery of the bribe money from Parikh’s office.
 
 CBI in its FIR has alleged that Balaji Trust through its CA had agreed to pay the bribe to Prasad. It said Mittal was monitoring the matter and was in touch with Parikh and another partner of the CA firm, Gautam Choksi. The investigating agency said on April 21, Prasad had passed a favourable order for the trust. 
 
 Highlighting the manner in which the money changed hands, the CBI said Prasad got in touch with Choksi through an associate, Visakhapatnam-based Suresh Jain who is in the bullion and real estate business. Jain is alleged to have enquired with Choksi about the delivery of the agreed payment. CBI alleged that Choksi, in turn, promised to deliver the money in instalments in Mumbai and if required in Hyderabad too.
 
 On April 27, Mittal then directed Bajpai to deliver the first instalment to the CA, CBI said. Parikh then asked Jain to depute a person to collect the money. This is when Jain contacted his relative Manish who had his office at Zaveri Bazaar. Manish visited Parikh’s office and collected the money. 
 
 The CBI alleged that on April 28, Parikh once again contacted Jain and requested him to take the next instalment. Manish then visited Bajpai and collected the instalment, it said.
 
 It said on Monday Prasad contacted Jain and asked him to hand over part of the amount he had received on his behalf. A source told CBI that the amount was likely to be delivered to Prasad on Tuesday at his Visakhapatnam residence. 
 
 On Tuesday, CBI laid a trap and caught Prasad who had received Rs.19.34 lakh from Jain. Both Prasad and Jain were arrested. The agency said the remaining Rs 1.50 crore received by Jain was also recovered. Prasad and Jain were produced in a court in Visakhapatnam and remanded in police custody for six days. 
 
 On Wednesday, a special court in Mumbai granted a three-day transit remand to enable Mittal, Bajpai, Parikh and Manish to be produced before the court in Visakhapatnam. The CBI in its application had sought a transit remand of seven days. The special judge P K Sharma also directed the agency to inform the defence in advance when the accused would be produced before the court in Visakhapatnam. The accused had sought bail saying that they would be present before the court there. However, this plea was not accepted. 
 
 
