NEW DELHI: The Shunglu report reflects how the strained relations between former lieutenant governor   and the AAP government resulted in many key decisions hanging fire.

 One such instance was the proposal to enhance revenue by the transport department.The department discussed it with the deputy CM on June 16, 2015, with three key suggestions: increase of one time registration fees, a registration tax on vehicles and a congestion tax of Rs 100 on all vehicles. Parts of the proposal later made it to the budget 201516 and were passed by the  . A notification was then prepared under Motor Vehicle   Act, 1962.
 
 However, the CM ordered that the notification be issued without the  's approval, contrary to the ground held by the transport department.
 
 When the LG requested for the draft notification, the CM refused.
 
 The transport department was directed to issue the notification citing an informal discussion with the LG. “The CM was not ready to submit this file to LG even though the chief secretary had marked the file to him,“ the report notes. The CM asking for an explanation from the transport commissioner for marking the file to the LG also finds space in the report.
 
 The other flashpoint was the power of Delhi government to decide and notify circle rates for transfer of pro perty. The report notes that the LG summoned the file in August 2015 stating that the government was bound to submit the file to him seeking his approval. “The CM, relying on the opinion expressed by the ministry of home affairs in 2010, presumed that approval of LG was not required,“ the report says.
 
 The report, however, says that the   didn't authorise interpretation of constitutional or legal position. “The present chief minister in November 2015 took a view that the government was competent, disregarded the LG's note and authorised the notification,“ it says, going on to cite the high court ruling that said the LG's approval was obligatory. “This is clearly an instance where the chief minister asserted his political power instead of relying on the correct legal position,“ the report adds.
 
