BENGALURU: The infamous   which promised huge returns to investors for liking links on the internet has many victims in Bengaluru too.

 City police are flooded with complaints from Bengalureans who have lost money in the multi-crore scam. Cops have reached out to their Uttar Pradesh counterparts for details of the cases.
 
 Each subscriber signing up for the Rs 57,500 scheme was sent 125 links a day. He/she had to click on the like button to receive weekly payments, which were deposited in his/her bank account. Though each investor was allowed only three purchases, many Bengalureans are believed to have made multiple deposits of Rs 57,500 using bogus identities, sources said.
 
 “A relative introduced me to this so-called social media business scheme as subscribers were incentivised to get more people on board. I joined on December 20 last year by depositing Rs 57,500 online. Soon after that, I started receiving URLs to click on,” said  , a Shaktinagar-based trader. The 39-year-old Bengalurean made two more deposits when the clicks/likes started yielding results. 
 
 Having lost Rs 1.72 lakh to the scheme, dubbed the ‘like scam’, George lodged a complaint at the police commissionerate on Thursday. “Now I’m running from pillar to post to retrieve my money. There are a few people I helped enrol in the scheme and they too have been conned,” he lamented.
 
 Banaswadi resident   subscribed to the scheme in December to make a quick buck. “I received Rs 2,711 a week for the 125 links I clicked, but after a few weeks the system didn’t respond. Then I heard that the scheme’s founder is a scamster and has been put behind bars,” said the 35-year-old, who is among the many netizens those who have sought police’s help in recovering their lost money.
 
 According to a senior police officer, the ponzi scheme is said to have benefitted only a few initial investors. “We are getting in touch with the UP police team probing the case,” he added.
 
 
 
 
 On February 2, the Special Task Force of UP police busted a Noida-based digital marketing firm,   (earlier Ablaze Info Solution Private Limited), and apprehended three persons, including its founder-director  . The arrests unearthed what is believed to be the largest internet scams in India, through which the firm created a multi-level marketing model of online users. They had to click on 125 bogus company links per day and were promised Rs 5 per click. Thousands lost money to the scam across the country, including many Bengalureans. Mittal allegedly siphoned off over Rs 3,700 crore from nearly seven lakh people.
 
 
