GURUGRAM: There are more than 200   and paying guest accommodations running in different upscale   sectors being run illegally, according to an RTI reply by Huda. 

 In response to an RTI query by RTI activist S K Sharma, Huda conducted a survey in February to identify these   accommodations. “Huda conducted a survey after I sought information on   and PG accommodations through an RTI application in October 2016. They have now shared the details of their findings from the area under jurisdiction of estate officer 2,” said Sharma, adding he is waiting for similar information from areas under estate officer 1.
 
 As per the 2012 policy of DTDC, a Huda sector can have a maximum 5,000 sq yd area earmarked for guesthouses. The minimum plot size is 1,000 sq yd, and necessary permissions must be taken from the department.
 
 Sharma said such illegal accommodations created unnecessary inconvenience to residents, putting extra burden on civic amenities. Above all, it is a security issue. “There are no records of these establishments. This could lead to serious law and order situations. I've requested the police commissioner and Huda administrator to take necessary action,” said Sharma.
 
 He said most of the guesthouses, whose list was provided by Huda under RTI, are operating from residential areas. “They neither have commercial electricity connections, nor are they paying tax,” said Sharma, adding not only do these establishments violate Huda norms, they also pay for power and water at lower residential rates, cheating the exchequer and discoms.
 
 In June 2016, three illegal guesthouses in Sector 39 were sealed by Huda following a complaint by residents of New Engineer City Height society, raised during a district   committee meeting in May 2016.
 
 Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav said action would be taken against such illegal operations. “Notices will be issued to such establishments and the Huda estate officer would be asked to seal such properties, if violations continue,” he said.
 
 
