AHMEDABAD: Mufti  , who was acquitted by the   in the 2002   terrorist attack case, has dashed off legal notices to the state government and four police officials who investigated the case, seeking compensation of Rs 5.20 crore.

 The mufti also sought a reply on why the four cops, including retired DIG D G Vanzara and IPS officer G L Singhal, should not be put on trial for their malicious prosecution which resulted in his 11-year-long incarceration.
 
 Mansuri and five others were acquitted by the apex court in May 2014. After their acquittal and the SC’s observation that innocent persons were prosecuted, some of them approached the apex court seeking directions to the state government to prosecute the cops for their victimization.
 
 The SC, however, refused to entertain the plea for compensation and directions to prosecute the police officials, and instead asked Mansuri and the others to approach an appropriate court – either Gujarat high court or the trial court in Ahmedabad.
 
 Accordingly, Mansuri issued notices to the investigators and the state government. “We have not received any reply within the stipulated time. Now we will approach the trial court with our demands,” the mufti’s advocate said.
 
 In this case, 34 persons including an NSG commando lost their lives during an attack by two gunmen on the Akshardham temple in Gandhinagar on September 24, 2002. Mansuri and seven others were tried in various proceedings by special   courts. In 2006, after trying six persons, the Pota court awarded the death penalty to the mufti and others, and punished three others with varied jail terms for waging war against the nation and criminal conspiracy by providing logistical support to the two gunmen who stormed the temple.
 
 The high court upheld the lower court’s conviction and sentencing in 2010, which was reversed by the apex court four years later. Two other accused persons, arrested after 2006, were tried by the Pota court and acquitted in 2014.
 
 After his release, Mansuri wrote a book, ‘Eleven Years Behind Bars’, on his experiences during his alleged illegal confinement by city crime branch, police remand and jail term. This did not go down well with Vanzara, who sued the mufti for Rs 101 crore, for defamation.
 
 
