Federation of Sabhas, Apni Zindagi Apna Dal, Mritak Sangh, Khas Aadmi Party ....Do they ring a bell? If they don't, don't blame your general awareness.They are all 'registered unrecognised' political outfits listed with the  , but they don't matter at all as far as the electoral battle is concerned. Victory is not what they aspire for--they make their their presence felt through their quirky names and motto-from propagating `honesty' to enrolling only the 'corrupt'. Their presence, however adds colour to the maha kumbh of democracy.

 In 2016, the year before the  , the total number of political parties from UP registered with EC was 474. Of these, 91 operate from Lucknow. One may find the majority of these outfits contesting elections next month. According to EC's official records, the 2012   witnessed almost 100% jump in the number of smaller political parties. In 2007, there were 103 such parties and their number jumped to 204 in 2012.
 
 From a party which claims to be working for humanity--it is called Insan Raj Party--to Gareeb Raj Party , which claims to empower the poor, the number of such parties, with no pretension to win, is rising.
 
 “Some of them may have some nuisance value and act as spoilers on one or two seats, but a majority of them are in the fray just for the sake of it,“ says a political analyst.
 
 “They know it well that they wouldn't poll even 100 votes, but still contest--sometimes driven by their leader's fad and sometimes just to make a point, or even for income tax exemption,“ he adds.
 
 For example, Lal Bihari `Mritak' of Mritak Sangh, which is based in Azamgarh, is likely to field an `officially' dead man (alive but declared dead in revenue records) on some seats. The 61-year-old Lal Bihari `Mritak' was declared “dead“ in 1976 by his relatives who allegedly captured his property . In 1989, he contested against former Prime Minister VP Singh to prove that he was alive. Since then, he has been using elections to make those who were defrauded in a similar manner contest elections.
 
 Lakhimpur-based Khaas Aadmi Party (KhAP), during the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, had invited all corrupt persons and fraudsters to join it.
 
 “This is our way to contest as politics of today has no place for honest people,“ says Naresh Singh Bhadauriya, a senior functionary of KhAP.
 
 Another party desperately trying to makes its presence felt is Aadhi Aabadi Party , which claims to represent the interests of the other 50% of society--women. At present, the party is active in Lucknow East and has banners and posters on display in Gomtinagar.
 
 In addition to this, there is Truth, Equality, Justice Applying Service Dal, which is based in Mathura. Bharatiya Imaandar Party operates from Puwayan tehsil in Shahjahanpur. Similarly , there is an `India Rising Party' based in Tirwa tehsil of Kannauj district.
 
 Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, who has been vo ciferously pitching for a liquor ban, may see a partner in Nasha Mukt Bharat Party, operating from SP chief Mulayam Singh Yadav's home district Etawah. Ghaziabad has recently witnessed emergence of two political parties with weird names--the Federation of Sabhas and Apni Zindagi Apna Dal.
 
 Lucknow-based Rashtriya Shahari Vikas Party devised a unique methodology to catch the attention of Lucknow voters. The party started using the abbreviation of RSVP (reply if you please) at prominent crossings of Lucknow before the announcement of the 2017 UP assembly elections.
 
 Political analyst Sudhir Panwar says, “A year before the elections, there is a sudden mushrooming of unrecognised registered political parties. The main reason for this is that the political parties get income tax exemption. Secondly, there are no tough laws governing registration of political parties. The bulk of these are non-serious, and most presidents or chairpersons of such parties generally do this to achieve their political or business ambitions,“ he says, adding “sometimes such parties anticipate that bigger political parties would offer money to buy their name, symbol or other attributes.“
 
