CHANDIGARH: The pious relationship of mother and daughter was shaken as the Chandigarh district court delivered justice to one daughter who complained against her mother and uncle for sexual harassment. Additional district and session judge J S Sidhu held mother   and uncle Surinder guilty of sexually harassing her and criminally conspiring against her. The court granted three years of rigorous imprisonment with fine of Rs 3,500 to the mother and also jailed the uncle for four years with fine of Rs 6,500.

 The court convicted Rupinder under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 354A (sexual harassment), 292 (obscenity) of the IPC and Surinder under the same sections of the IPC and Sections 2 and 8 of the   Act. The court observed, “It is the duty of a mother and even a masar (uncle) to protect the girl child, rather otherwise has been done.”
 
 The matter dates back to 2009 and an FIR was registered on January 10, 2015. The daughter was minor when the sexual abuse started. The father of the complainant had started living separately after some issues with Rupinder and the children were living with the mother. Meanwhile, the complainant noticed that her mother and uncle had developed a physical relationship. In 2011, on the occasion of Lohri, the uncle asked for sexual favour from the girl. She complained about this to her mother but the latter thrashed and advised her that the uncle is also like her father and can kiss and hug her. Again, sexual approaches were made a number of times in 2012 and 2013. The daughter kept on complaining to the mother but only got thrashed in return.
 
 On 30 September, 2014, the uncle showed the girl a porn video of her mother to sexually arouse her and threatened to make it viral if she declines physical relationship with him. The girl again told this to her mother but was beaten mercilessly. Finally, the girl told about the incident to her father and brother. A case was then registered against the mother and uncle in 2015. The medical reports also confirmed injuries on her neck and back.
 
 Considering the gravity of offence and relation between the victim and the convict, the court observed that no leniency could be shown.
 
 
