Mumbai: The   has moved ahead on a proposal to create differentiated banks for providing wholesale and long-term financing ( ) by floating a discussion paper on the subject. The move comes exactly a year after former RBI governor   proposed a new category of lenders to take over the burden of financing long-term projects from commercial banks.

 The discussion paper sets a high entry barrier by prescribing a high capital requirement of Rs 1,000 crore for setting up a WLTF bank. The central bank said that the same shareholding norms that apply to universal banks will apply to the WLTF bank. In its draft guidelines for a universal bank licence, the RBI had said that corporates can come in only as investors and cannot own more than 10% stake.
 
 Discussion papers are usually a precursor to draft guidelines which, following consultations, are succeeded by the final guidelines. 
 
 WLTF is the third category of a differentiated bank licence. The RBI has already issued differentiated licences for payments banks and small finance banks.
 
 While WLTFs will be providing long-term loans, they would not be allowed to raise savings deposits from individuals. But they are free to raise current account deposits, fixed deposits and float rupee-denominated bonds. The fixed deposits are, however, expected to come from bulk institutional investors as there will be a minimum cap.
 
 Besides providing long-term loans, it is envisaged that WLTF banks will act as market-makers on corporate bonds, credit derivatives, warehouse receipts and provide takeout financing. They will also provide investment bank services related to equity/debt investments and forex and trade finance to their clients.
 
 Quoting an expert committee report, the discussion paper said, “The financial sector has not been able to meet the scale or sophistication of the needs of large corporates, as well as public infrastructure, and does not penetrate deeply enough to meet the needs of small- and medium-sized enterprises in many parts of the country.”
 
 The paper highlights the need for long-term financing institutions, given that the 12th Five Year Plan has projected the infrastructure financing requirement for the country at $1 trillion and the funding gap is estimated to be above Rs 5 lakh crore.
 
 
