CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has stayed the decision of the   to re-employ a   (SE) in the public works department.

 Justice Ajay Tewari of the HC passed these orders while observing from the record that re-employment to SE Pradeep Ranjan was given “on approval of the chief minister” though all senior officers, including the chief secretary, were opposed to it.
 
 Ranjan was re-employed after the PWD minister had made a recommendation that work amounting to few hundred crores was pending in his constituency and the officer had shown great efficiency.
 
 In its detailed orders released on Friday, Justice Tewari also clarified that whenever a person is re-employed the “chances of promotion of eligible employees and the downstream fresh appointments are sacrificed” and thus this can be done only in exceptional circumstances.
 
 Justice Tewari has passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by R K Verma and other officers working on the posts of SE and executive engineers (XENs) in the  .
 
 During the hearing of the case on May 16, the state government had produced the complete record regarding the extensions given by the PWD to the retired officers under “exceptional circumstances”.
 
 “Today the record has been produced before me. I find that nothing has been mentioned about any ‘exceptional circumstances’ or ‘public interest’ for granting re-employment to the respondent. I further find from the record that everybody from the office right from the joint director (administration) to the engineer-in-chief to the chief secretary have opposed the extension, yet in one line it has been ordered that the CM has approved and the order has thereafter been passed,” observed Justice Tewari after going through the record.
 
 HC clarified that public interest for re-employment cannot depend only on the consideration that a particular officer is efficient but it has to have a component that no other officer is competent enough to do that work.
 
 Karan Nehra, counsel for the petitioners had argued that the Haryana government had set a new trend of giving re-employment to the retired senior officials, thereby blocking the chances of promotion to other senior employees who were in the line of promotion. Nehra had submitted that re-employment of its employees on a contractual basis for a year beyond their superannuation is violation of their own policy and instructions.
 
 
 
 
 “What is clear is that when the government wants to flout the law it is all ‘nudge-nudge wink-wink’ but when anybody challenges that action, it is sought to be projected as if all the rules are graven in stone and the government is bound by them,” HC observed in the orders.
 
 
