THALASSERY:   have come across another alleged Islamic State (IS) module operating in north Kerala, which has no links with the one from Padne (whose members had left the country) or those who had been arrested from   in October 2016. Highly placed sources told TOI that the module, unlike the other ones, consists of older people who had been radicalized even before the formation of the Islamic State. The exact number of members in the group is not known but it is assumed that it could be under 10, with two persons each from   and Vadakara and one from Malappuram. All of them had worked in the Gulf and two have crossed 50 years of age. 

 It is suspected that a member of the group had made an abortive attempt to reach Syria three months ago. Other members of the group were preparing to join the IS. Sources said a person from Kannur who had joined the IS in Syria was killed in combat. Another person from Vadakara was in prison in UAE for links with the IS.
 
 One person from Thalassery was well connected to IS leaders in Syria and had even met the IS spokesperson. The other Thalassery native had worked in various Gulf countries and had three passports. While working in the Gulf, he was financially assisted by a Nigerian, who had converted to Islam. Some of the members of the group have Salafi background and had worked for Mujahid organizations before they were swayed by the IS ideology. The group's main propaganda materials were the book 'Valinte Thanalil' (Under the shadow of the sword), Malayalam translation of a book in Arabic and the lectures of  , the controversial American preacher who was killed in a drone attack in 2011 in Yemen. His speeches were downloaded from YouTube and widely circulated among the group. The IS module in Padne was also drawn to his speeches. One of the members of the group had messaged his family members to listen to the cleric's speeches to understand 'real Islam'.
 
 A WhatsApp message is doing the rounds asking the Muslims to keep away from a person in Vadakara, who is suspected to be a supporter of the Islamic State. "After the group from Padne left the country, we expected that the nuisance created by the IS would come an end. But we are aghast to know that more and more youths were walking into the net of the terror organization," said the message.
 
