HYDERABAD: Upset over inaction of Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) against Andhra Pradesh for diversion of water through Pothyreddipadu and tampering the water data, Telangana irrigation department has decided to approach the Union water resources ministry. Special chief secretary   is writing to the ministry seeking immediate action on the complaints lodged at  .

 Telangana is also peeved over the delay in deciding the water allocation for the current year, leading to hardships to the ayacut under Nagarjunasagar. The drinking water requirements of Nalgonda and Hyderabad are hanging in the balance with meagre inflows into Nagarjunasagar. Telangana fears that further delay in deciding the share of two states in the water available at   will allow AP to further divert water for its Rayalaseema projects.
 
 “Apart from Handri-Neeva and projects under Telugu Ganga, AP government recently launched Muchumarri project too. All these projects are taking water from Srisailam without even giving correct information to us,” said an official in the Telangana irrigation department.
 
 Irrigation minister T Harish Rao conveyed his displeasure to the Centre on the lacklustre response of KRMB on the water data tampering issue. The KRMB has refused to take the telemetry reading into consideration on the ground that the systems were installed at selective places on pilot basis and there were chance for tampering. This has angered Telangana officials, who have insisted on action or at least a warning to the AP government for trying to tamper the figures to its benefit.
 
 Bowing to the pressure, the KRMB finally agreed to appoint a three-member committee of irrigation experts to probe the tampering of telemetry readings pertaining to Andhra Pradesh’s water drawal from Srisailam dam at Pothyreddipadu, but it did not finalise the terms of reference of the committee.
 
 “We are writing to the water resources ministry to finalise water distribution and to take steps to stop diversion of water. The water must be released to Nagarjunasagar by producing hydro power, but not to the projects which were built based on surplus waters,” said SK Joshi.
 
 The Telangana irrigation department has placed a fresh indent with KRMB for release of 15 TMC water for meeting the drinking water needs. The ENC C Muralidhar has submitted the request to the member secretary of the board, seeking 10 TMC to meet the immediate drinking water needs under the Nagarjunasagar left canal that covers Nalgonda and Khammam districts and for Mission Bhagiratha.
 
