AHMEDABAD: The   of the city crime branch which is investigating con call centres has arrested   who is believed to be a key person in the scam. Cyber cell officials said that Rakeshkumar’s interrogation has revealed that two US citizens, Lisa Caratac and Lisa Stickley, were providing data of US citizens to con call centre owners, Hitesh Dhavda and Sandeep Rajani. “Rakeshkumar is in our custody on police remand and we are hopeful that more names will tumble out during his interrogation,” said a senior cyber cell official. Top crime branch officials said that they will soon contact Caratac and Stickley. 

 “We are also going to seek help from the foreign affairs ministry and the Union home ministry to know more about the two US citizens,” a top crime branch official said. Crime branch sources said that Rakeshkumar has confessed that the two US citizens used to provide data of US citizens, known as leads in the business, to Dhavda, Rajani, and Thomas Patel. “Dhavda and Rajani used to run a con call centre by the name of Lac Art Ec Infotech in Vastrapur while  , who also is a key money processor, used to run a centre at Venus Empodium in the same area,” a crime branch source said. Crime branch sources said that according to Rakeshkumar’s confession, the two US citizens have provided about 5,000 leads. 
 
 “The callers used to contact 20 to 30 US citizens a day, posing as officials of the   of the US and extorted money from them,” a cyber cell official said. Cyber cell officials said that the scamsters used to earn 3,000-4,000 US dollars a day by forcing US citizens to get iTunes cards costing up to 500 dollars. “The cards were then redeemed by money processors from China and sent through hawala channels to the con call centre owners,” said a senior crime branch official.
 
 
 
 
 Crime branch sources said that after arresting five youths — Anuj Giri, Deepak Banvari, Abhishek Rajput, Saurabh Yadav and Vivek alias Vicky Thakur — who were running a con call centre in moving vehicles, police have sought the bank details of the accused. “We are also investigating the hawala link through which the money was transferred from China,” said a crime branch official.
 
 
