GREATER NOIDA: The   Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) has decided to get tough with bus drivers breaking traffic rules while driving on the 165-km Yamuna Expressway, which connects   with Agra.   chief Executive Officer (CEO)   said that he has written to state transport authorities to take action against bus drivers who illegally halt their vehicles on the high-speed expressway.

 According to YEIDA officials, the expressway is witness to scores of accidents, many of them fatal, due to stationary vehicles. “Halting of vehicles at the entry or exit, or other places along the expressway not meant for stopping, is illegal,” Singh said. “accidents occur when buses halt at spots not designated for stopping to pick up or drop passengers,” the CEO said.
 
 Officials further said that action is also on the cards for any vehicle found to be illegally parked near eating joints or at any other location along the expressway. “The police have been directed to take strict action against such people, as they pose a serious threat to other commuters using the expressway. The commuters who use unauthorized cuts, to avoid travelling a long distance to take a U-turn, will also be heavily fined,” he added.
 
 The CEO had on December 7 last month taken stock of the expressway and had found that the concessionaire had not implemented several safety features, which had been earlier recommended both by the YEIDA and an audit by the   (CRRI). “I have written to the transport department to take strict action against bus drivers and operators for illegal halting of buses along the expressway,” he said.“We are taking all possible steps to ensure commuters have a safe journey on this road. The aim is to deter traffic rule violators,” Singh said.
 
 Meanwhile, the expressway operator has provided five speed guns to update the police about speed violations. “The idea is to restrain commuters from overspeeding. CRRI in its safety audit report has said that overspeeding is one of the major causes of accidents on the expressway,” he said.
 
 
