HYDERABAD: Sadhguru of Isha Foundation on Friday interacted with Muslim elders on the need to conserve rivers. He said, “no amount of wealth, stock markets or industries can save our life, but water". He pointed out that India is losing more lives because of farm suicides due to paucity of water than lives lost in war on both sides. Nearly three lakh farmers committed suicide in the last three years.

 Addressing intellectuals from various walks of life at a discussion organized by Isha Foundation in collaboration with The   daily and social organization, Confederation of Voluntary Associations, the Sadhguru said, “If we do not act now, nearly 25 per cent of India will turn into a desert with soil losing moisture to become sand. States like Punjab, Haryana, parts of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu among others are already losing organic content in soil, and have only 0.05 per cent organic material against two per cent set by the UN to gauge soil's fertility“.
 
 While the melting glaciers of polar regions can be met as a global challenge, the growing paucity of water in India can be met by forest fed rivers.The campaign proposes plantation of forests in government land, and fruit trees in private land. Sadhguru's Isha foundation is working to involve citizenry, political parties and governments across the states towards protecting rivers and planting “a kilometre of green cover across each side of the river“.
 
 “The Cauveri, stretching 807 km, stopped 170 km short of the ocean in Tamil Nadu.The Krishna hasn't touched the ocean for the third year in a row," he said.
 
 Telangana deputy chief minister   said, “chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has sanctioned `1700 crore to save water bodies." The state government is diligently working to improve the green cover by planting a whopping 291 crore trees across the state, and make it the largest plantation drive in the country."
 
 Eminent Islamic scholar Mufti Sadiq Mohiuddin Faheem said, “The Quran and teachings of   prohibit excessive use of water." Prophet Muhammed had instructed against excessive usage of water even if one were performing ablution on the banks of a river.
 
 “The Prophet used to utilize a little over a litre of water for ablution and roughly four litres for bathing, and advised against polluting water or contaminating it even with human wastes," he added Chevella MP Konda Vishweshar Reddy, Siasat editor Zahid Ali Khan, and others were present. Earlier, Mazhar Hussain, executive director of COVA, presented a slideshow conceived by former President of India   on future generations suffering from water crises.
 
