BHOPAL: Twenty-eight inmates, including convicts serving term in   became official ' ' on Sunday. From now on, they will teach yoga and conduct art of living sessions in other prisons of the state. 

 Senior jail officials said 28 out of 1,700 prisoners were selected as they cleared all stages to become yoga gurus. There are 30 other prisoners, who were good, but couldn't clear the last stage. They can still give supplementary exam and become yog guru. Now, they have a mission: to teach yoga to help prisoners change their life for better. 
 
 Dinesh Nargawe, jail superintendent, said, "Yoga sessions are being conducted in jail for past one year. In the meantime, we decided to start art of living course to promote peace so that prisoners can transform their life and try make a career in this field. The gurus taught them and conducted exams. Twenty-eight did well and were presented certificates.""Among 28 yoga gurus, 18 are convicted in murder cases. Ten are undertrials in fraud and attempt to murder cases," Nargawe said.
 
 Gurpreet Singh, 37, a prisoner, who has six murder cases and two attempt to murder cases against him, is a resident of Punjab and currently in Bhopal Jail for loot, he had committed in 2006.
 
 Gurpreet said "I was an international   and preparing for a match in Canada in 1999, but couldn't reach there as I was caught by police for storing 5 kg of opium in my house I had kept to help my friend."
 
 "I was sent to Bathinda jail where I had a fight with some prisoners after which I had murdered two. In 2005, while I had gone for hearing in Sri Ganganagar in Rajasthan, I fled the place, but was caught and sent to Karnal Jail in Haryana. Five years later, I had killed two policemen and injured two others during a hearing in Gidarwa. After commiting the crime, I had escaped," he said. 
 
 He said "During this period I killed two people due to old rivalry in Punjab, and went to Mumbai to hide. I was caught again and this time I was booked under Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act and sent to Patiala Jail." 
 
 "There I spent two years and was shifted to Bhopal jail. Here one of my friends persuaded me to join yoga, initially it was very difficult, but slowly I felt good. Then I also joined art of living programme which taught me to feel the inner happiness and peace while helping others," he said.
 
 With tears in his eyes, he said "Now, I have only one aim in my life. I want to fight against the menace of drugs in Punjab. I want to run campaigns with my group to help others. I have already started planning for that."
 
 Another inmate, Ratiram Singh, 52, a resident of Palwal in Faridabad is serving jail term for five murders, three attempt to murder and abduction. He was a soldier in army, but a dispute over a property forced him to take to crime. He told TOI, "I had joined army as a soldier and served for 14 years. In 1999, he had a fight with a person over the property in his village. He had opend fire at a person and was charged with attempt to murder case. Two months later, he killed the man and fled."
 
 He said "In 2000, I had killed three men and ran away. This time, police announced a reward of Rs 1 lakh on my head. During this period, I had kidnapped a girl in Bhopal over an old rivalry, but released her. Two years later I was caught by the police and sent to Haryana jail."
 
 "In 2004, I had a lawyer killed . Then came the turning point, I had started practising yoga in Haryana jail two years ago. Yoga improved my health and gave me peace," said Singh. 
 
 "In Bhopal jail, I attended art of living for a month, which gave me mental peace. Now, I just want to teach yoga in other jails. Till the time I am here, I will try my best to encourage other prisoners to practise yoga and art of living so that they can get mental peace. Besides it will improve their health," said Ratiram.
 
