THNAE: After successfully earning the title of an  , a   has adopted bio-composting after starting and implementing a number of other  . 

 From segregating their waste to be turned into manure to using that manure for their open society space, the residents of Eden Woods   are leaving no stone unturned to turn their complex into a biodiversity-rich society.
 
 The residents, in the past, have implemented water segregation and recycling, maintaining 598 massive trees as kitchen garden in their areas to name a few. 
 
 T N Raghunatha, secretary of the Federation of Eden Woods Cooperative Housing Societies Ltd, said, “We began segregating waste generated from 800 odd flats in 18 buildings of our complex into dry and wet waste back in January 2016 with the help of green NGOs. However, in the months that passed by, we realised that a lot of our wet waste mixed with all kinds of waste in the garbage vehicles could actually be used for manure and reduce the pollution levels at the dumping grounds if dealt with in a proper and systematic way.”
 
 The members of the society immediately teamed up with a Mumbai based environmental group and after brain storming decided to set up a bio-compost plant in the complex by February 2017.
 
 An audit of all the wet waste generated in all 18 buildings was conducted in January and it was found that the complex generated close to 500kg of wet waste daily. Additionally, the green waste collected from the garden patches amounted to 30 to 50 kg every day.
 
 “The amount of waste our society generated surprised us and we concretised our plan of going the zero waste route. We purchased eight syntax tubs that can be used for bio-composting and placed a layer of bacteria in each container, followed by the wet waste, the garden waste and lime powder to confine the odour to the tub. We also covered it with a mesh to keep it away from strays and hired a helper to handle this initiative daily,” said Usha Iyer, a resident of the society.
 
 She added that after a month-and-half of composting, the first batch of manure was ready on April 14. A shredder was bought to turn the manure into fine powder and the first batch of manure will be used in the gardens of the complex. 
 
 “The objective behind our decision to set up a bio-compost plant in our complex is to make the most of green waste generated from the main garden, a mini garden and at least a dozen green patches that we have developed over the years. We also want to use the wet waste emanating from the households effectively. We will also be testing the quality of the manure and sell off the excess stock to nurseries henceforth,” added Raghunatha.
 
 City mayor Meenakshi Shinde, who inaugurated the first batch of manure produced by the society on Friday, said, “The Swachh Bharat campaign for many is limited to sweeping the streets, painting walls and clicking pictures. While doing that is completely fine, it is high time citizens took up such initiatives and made their societies self sufficient and smart. Separating waste and dumping it in another location is not the solution to the growing issue of solid waste disposal. If more societies like Eden Woods join the movement, it will reduce the pressure on the Thane Municipal Corporation. 
 
 
