LUCKNOW: City's Urban Seats Are Set For A Gripping Contest On Feb 19. As Voters Seek Solutions To Civic Issues, Some Candidates Are Banking On Years Of Toil And Goodwill While Others On Their Party's Name. TOI Profiles Each Constituency.

 The urban constituencies of Lucknow are set to witness a battle of prestige with ruling   on one side and   on the other.
 
 Though   too has fielded its candidates on all five urban seats to shape up a triangular fight, the contest looks like a direct one between SP and BJP. SP is yet to declare its nominee for Lucknow East.
 
 Winning Uttar Pradesh's capital city is understandably a matter of prestige for SP, especially for two reasons. Firstly, the party has fielded the Yadav clan's chhoti bahu Aparna from Luc know Cantt and the fight is not easy as she has to take on sitting MLA Rita Bahuguna Joshi. Secondly, three sitting SP MLAs--Mohd Rehan, Ab hishek Mishra and Ravidas Mehrotra--have to prove their mettle in their West, North and Central seats respectively .
 
 “Lucknow has been the face of development being flaunted by the ruling Samajwadi Party. So winning the match is important for the party. The sitting MLAs have a multi-layered burden--to ensure the success of CM, the party and themselves,“ said JP Shukla, a political analyst.
 
 The BJP , on the other hand, faces the challenge of regaining its monopoly in Lucknow. The party never faced a defeat in West and Central seats since 1989 while East and Cantonment have been in its kitty since 1991. However, in the 2012 polls, the BJP couldn't stand the Akhilesh swing on any seat except in East constituency where it won with a significant margin.
 
 The BJP now looks forward to claiming its lost turf as it had managed to sweep the 2014 Lok Sabha polls riding the   wave. It is for this reason that the BJP has not shied away from fielding turncoats on key seats. “Be it Rita Joshi in Cantonment,   in Central or Neeraj Bora in North, they have a stature and can swing votes which have been our legacy for almost two decades,“ said a senior BJP leader.
 
 The five seats will also test Lucknowites' electoral responsibility . Over 50% of the voters did not take the pain of going to the polling booth in 2012. This time, additional district election officer Abhay Kishor is banking on young voters.
 
 “Nearly 55% voters in Lucknow are below 40 years of age. We are motivating them to come out and vote,“ he said.
 
