THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: More than two months after road safety cell of the state PWD submitting a report to Kerala Road Safety Authority with suggestions to improve safety norms on the  , not much has been done. A major issue – lack of streetlights –which is crucial in ensuring road safety during night, still remains unaddressed. Worsening the issue, the city corporation has written to the state government that it will be difficult for them to install streetlights on the stretch. 

 Accidents are on the rise on the stretch after its commissioning in March last year. While assigning work with Sreedhanya Constructions, the national highway wing of PWD has not included installation of streetlights in the scope of work. After completion of the stretch, the old streetlights will be shifted to either side of the road. However, these streetlights were insufficient to provide enough light to the 30m-wide road. 
 
 Mayor V K Prasanth said that they have sent a letter to PWD stating that they are unable to do the work considering the huge cost. “We expect that around Rs 16 crore will be needed to introduce streetlights along the entire stretch. This will bring financial burden for the corporation,” he said.
 
 However, officials of NH wing said that they have not taken any decision on introducing streetlights in the stretch. 
 
 Mannankal Ramachandran, general secretary of Karamana-Kaliyikkavila road widening action council, said that lives of commuters and pedestrians are in danger due to lack of streetlights. “The NH wing and corporation are passing the buck. We think we will have to conduct an agitation in front of corporation office to get the streetlight,” he said.
 
 Ramachandran said that people’s representatives are spending money only on high-mast lamps at junctions as it was the only way to flaunt their names. 
 
 Issue of streetlights is likely to turn up as a major concerns after commissioning of Kazhakkoottam-Mukkola stretch as National Highways Authority of India is planning streetlights only at junctions and bridges. 
 
