VADODARA: M S University which is facing space crunch for its own expansion projects is gradually also losing its land assets. 

 In 2012 ,   had to part with its 3.5 lakh square metre prime land at Sama and   campus for Gujarat government’s Swami Vivekananda Samras hostel project where Department of Social Justice and Empowerment along with Tribal Development Department constructed hostels meant to accommodate 2,000 students from scheduled castes (SC), scheduled tribes (ST) and Other Backward Classes (OBC) and those hailing from economically weaker sections of society. 
 
 Even while the ownership of these hostels is still not clear, the university is all set to lose another parcel of 14.64 hectares land at Nagarwada behind the posh VIP Road. Since early 1980s, the   (VUDA) had earmarked this land for MSU. But even after over three decades and a half, the publicly-funded university could not acquire this piece of land. 
 
 After a couple of owners moved the Gujarat High Court, it had last year given December 2016 as deadline to the university to acquire the land or surrender it. Now, VUDA has sent a missive to the university asking it to clarify its position within a fortnight failing to which the land will be demarked. 
 
 The market value of this land is estimated to be Rs 140 crore. If the university loses this parcel of land at Nagarwada, it is feared that another parcel of 20 hectares land which has been earmarked by VUDA in the Palace compound on the prime Rajmahal Road will also meet the same fate. 
 
 If all these was not enough, the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) has approached the university seeking three pieces of land – one adjoining the old Faculty of Law building, another adjoining the Faculty of Commerce building near Kalaghoda and Officer’s Mess located adjacent to University Press building opposite the main gate of Laxmi Vilas Palace for the civic body’s road widening projects. 
 
 Both proposals from VUDA and VMC’s will be placed before syndicate members on Saturday. “Financial resources have remained a constraint for us since all these years. The only option we have is to request the state government to help us in acquisition of this land,” said a top MSU official.
 
 VMC has sought 2,325 sq m land of Officer’s Mess (also known as the Senapati Bhavan) of the Indian Army whose ownership is with MSU. Interestingly, it was only after a recent assets survey that the university realised that it has ownership of this land. Near Kalaghoda, the corporation has sought 5.26 sq m land while the size of land that the civic body wants near the old Faculty of Law building is yet to be measured. 
 
 The Samiala campus where the university runs Water Resources Engineering and Management Institute is also set to shrink by nearly half as the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has already completed its marking of land for the   project. While NHAI will complete land acquisition anytime now, the university officials haven’t been offered any compensation against it so far. 
 
