BHOPAL: She tries to hide her disappointment at the way the government is treating her, but it shows through the moment you ask if she is happy with the help they get from  .

 Babita Phogat, who won the gold medal in   in 2014, said it took government six years to arrange a  . The   had raised the demand after Babita won a silver medal while her elder sister Geeta won India's first gold medal in wrestling at the Commonwealth Games in Delhi in 2010.
 
 Babita was in Bhopal on Saturday to attend the annual function of CII-Young Indians.
 
 Speaking on the sidelines of the function, Babita told TOI, “We had raised the demand for a mat way back in 2010. We got it in January 2016. This is what happening. We don’t feel good raising the issue every time. We want to open an academy. The government has all the information. But, if they are not helping what can be done about it.”
 
 She said, “The impediment does not mean that we would stop working for the welfare of wrestling. We have set up a gym and are coaching budding wrestlers. My father has told us to keep working on achieving the aim without any distraction.”
 
 Babita denied that the women’s wrestling game is struggling in the country. “Gone are the days when women’s wrestling was limited to few centres or cities. India have won medals in both men’s and women’s wrestling events, which is enough to prove that the game is getting popularity in the country.”
 
 Babita admitted that the stardom she got after   movie has affected her practice. “It’s quite obvious, but I know how much time I need to give in attending functions and practising. It will be wrong to avoid the functions. I can manage both the game as well as stardom,” she said.
 
 Babita suggested that the number of women coaches should be increased so that they can accompany players on international events. She termed practice with boys as a blessing in disguise. “Practising with boys will help girls in improving the game at a large level. I do not find anything wrong in it,” she said.
 
 About her Olympic medal dream, she said, “I will keep on working hard to make the country proud by winning an Olympic medal. It is possible only through hard work. I won’t sit idle.” About her failure at Rio Games, she said, “It was because of high fever that I could not play up to the billings.”
 
 About her views on Gurmehar Kaur issue, Babita said, “I respect freedom of expression but it should not be in any way against the interest of the country. I made an opinion regarding it, but saying anything against the country is not good. Whatever I said in the past about her views was my opinion about a particular issue.”
 
