KOLKATA: The fate of the Rs 4,500-crore   hinges on the whims of one person, and that of his family comprising 16 claimants to a   they have declined to accept.Their refusal to give up a 96-cottah plot for the   of the 32 km major airport connection has made the spurt in construction along   and New Town pointless.

 Chief minister  , then the railway minister, had launched the project in 2009. Rabin Sardar, the man responsible for stalling it, ironically claims to be a Trinamool supporter himself and says he is a “victim of forceful land acquisition“ for a plot vested by the railways in 2003. Matters came to a head on January 7, when he and 60 others, waving Trinamool flags, “assaulted and chased away workers from Metro railways and construction company ITDC,“ says a railway inquiry report. “Police officers from the local Patuli thana reached the site... requested the owner, Rabindranath Sardar, to leave the site but he did not agree... they manhandled ITDC engineers, injured Metro workers, put up bamboo fencing and blocked off the area.“ the report adds.
 
 Rabin, who's doing the bargaining on behalf of his family , said on Saturday , the day after a TOI team visited his ancestral house at Garagachha in Sonarpur: “Unless 7.5 cottahs are taken out of the acquired land, we won't allow any construction.“
 
 Explaining his absence from his ancestral home, he said: “I have bought a house in Patuli.“
 
 He, though, claims to be “an unemployed person who will be rendered homeless“ with his family if the 7.5 cottahs are not spared, in his petition to the Metro railway's chief engineer.He also wants the TDS of Rs 14.66 lakh waived from the compensation of Rs 1.47 crore.
 
 The land in question is next to the Kabi Subhas terminal station of the North-South Metro link. It was already acquired -vide notification number 208, dated 2822003 -when Banerjee had announced the New Garia-Airport project.
 
 The land acquisition of moujas Briji-27 and Goragachha 45 in Sonarpur under Section 10 (1) of the Metro Railway (Construction of Works) Act 1978 was complete when Rabin's father, Manoj Sardar, sought compensation against the acquisition. The amount settled was Rs 1,47,25,735. “Metro never imagined that getting physical possession would be so hard even after going through all the required procedures,“ said a Metro official.
 
 Manoj died in 2012, and the railways sent a letter to his family on May 1, 2014, asking them to collect the cheque. They refused. And the “land agitation“ saga started from then. Railway officials are currently pleading with the Sardars that the 7.5 cottahs (plot 64) they are demanding is an integral part of the terminal complex and it's impossible to hand it back.But Rabin won't budge. “If my party asks me to give up the land, I will say it's a personal issue. Unless given plot 64, we'll ensure the project doesn't happen,“ he told TOI.
 
 “The year's generous budgetary allocation (almost 66% up from last year) for the city's Metro projects, including the New Garia-Airport link, will be of no use, because of one Rabin Sardar,“ rued a Metro official.
 
 Another said: “It's like going through the motions, knowing everything's useless. Even after crossing a major hurdle on the New Town stretch, the project is a non-starter. How will we ever complete the work if the terminal can't be built?“ The construction company , ITDC, could seek compensation for the stop-work. “There is no scope of piling on the site because the area has been fenced and our workers were assaulted by the land-owner and his men,“ said an ITDC official.
 
