PANAJI: Luck favours the brave, but the brazen decision to sail into   in rough weather has created a potential catastrophe for MV Lucky Seven, which drifted and ran ashore on Miramar beach early Sunday. 

 Ignoring several warnings by port authorities, the vessel, which is owned by former Haryana home minister Gopal Kanda has been trying unsuccessfully to sail into the Mandovi river for the last three days.
 
 Two tugs chartered by SS Offshore Private Limited attempted to tow the ship into the river on Saturday but had to give up when the vessel ran aground on the Aguada sand bar and after the towing cable snapped off, said port officials. 
 
 On Sunday at 3am, the anchor gave way and the vessel drifted towards Miramar beach where it has settled for now. Four crew members who were injured, one grievously, were rescued by the Indian Coast Guard early in the morning.
 
 The sand bar is currently closed for any kind of navigational traffic due to the monsoon season.
 
 “The deputy CoP called us at 9pm on Saturday saying that the ship was grounded and that four crew need to be evacuated for medical treatment. Our Coast Guard ships can’t go there and since helicopters are not allowed to fly at night, we decided to wait for first light for the medi-evac,” commander of Coast Guard – Goa, deputy inspector general Manoj Baadkar said.
 
 A five-member Coast Guard helicopter crew led by Captain Amit Korgaonkar rescued four crew members from the grounded ship and dropped them on Miramar beach from where they were taken to a private hospital for treatment.
 
 According to the ship’s officials, a crew member got injured on Saturday when the towing cable attached to the tugs snapped off during the attempt to tow the vessel to Verem Bay. The other three crew members were sea sick due to the choppy waters. According to sources, 15 crew members are still on the ship.
 
 MV Lucky Seven, is a Tanzanian flag passenger vessel and has been brought to Goa by Golden Globe Hotels Pvt Ltd (GGHPL) to be used as an off-shore casino.
 
 Sources said, CoP had filed an affidavit before the Bombay high court saying that it was dangerous to even attempt to bring in the vessel during the monsoon. Despite repeated warnings and several failed attempts, the crew of MV Lucky Seven kept trying to sail the vessel up Mandovi river.
 
 “What is the hurry to bring in the ship? The diesel gensets and the engines are not working on board the ship. Why was it even allowed to move away from MPT?” a marine shipping expert said.
 
 MV Lucky Seven will be the sixth off shore casino vessel in River Mandovi and will operate under the name Big Daddy. Experts now suggest that unless the currents float the vessel back out to sea or a powerful tug pulls it free, the ship may remain grounded on Miramar beach.
 
 CoP officials said that they were keeping a close watch on the possibility of an oil spillage from the ship. The ship has 12,000 litres of diesel on board.
 
 Golden Globe Hotels, the promoters of M V Lucky Seven, were allowed to bring the vessel to river Mandovi after they appealed to the Bombay high court saying that the saline water was damaging the vessel.
 
 “It is a double hull ship and meant to be in sea water. It doesn’t have registration with DG Shipping nor with Inland Vessels so how was a foreign vessel allowed to come here?” an official with the state government said.
 
 
