NEW DELHI: Airlines must divert aircraft to the nearest airport in case one of the   on a flight are incapacitated. And carriers should tell their crew what meals to avoid 24 hours before operating a flight to reduce the chances of falling sick in the cockpit while flying.

 The   ( ) has made these recommendations to the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) in its final investigation report in a case of pilot incapacitation on Jet Airways’ Bangkok-Delhi flight of May 7, 2015. 
 
 The commander of Boeing 737 fell ill 1.5 hours after take off. But the flight still continued its journey to Delhi with the co-pilot flying the plane (VT-JFA) by taking the help of another   commander of an Airbus A-330 who happened to be on board. The flight (9W-63) with 121 passengers and six crew members had landed safely in Delhi after declaring May Day.
 
 “After 1.5 hours of flight, the pilot-in-command (PIC) was served salad, soup and curd. (Fifteen minutes after having this) he (PIC) started feeling uneasy,” the AAIB report submitted to DGCA now says. The aircraft was in Kolkata airspace at this time. A Jet A-330 commander who was in the passenger cabin was asked to move to the cockpit.
 
 A little later, the PIC felt better and returned to the cockpit. Half an hour later, the PIC “was absolutely unresponsive and shivering.” He was taken out of the cockpit for being administered medical aid. By this time the aircraft had entered Delhi airspace.
 
 The first officer (co-pilot) declared May Day with a request for priority landing in Delhi. The A-330 commander and co-pilot together landed the aircraft safely and then it was towed to the terminal. 
 
 The AAIB report says the first officer and A-330 commander had asked the PIC regarding diverting the aircraft to Kolkata when he first took ill but the PIC “desired that the flight should continue as planned.” “Kolkata being the closest airfield should have been their first choice for landing. The PIC returned to the flight deck (cockpit) after 25-30 minutes of being in cabin. PIC suffered second bout of incapacitation ... was taken out of cockpit … The first officer and (A-330 commander) did not decide on a diversion to Lucknow which was closest at that point of time…. First officer declared May Day with a request for priority landing in Delhi,” the report says. The PIC was later found to have suffered sudden incapacitation due to gastroenteritis. 
 
 Based on these findings, the AAIB committee of inquiry headed by RS Passi with Captain Dhruv Rebbapragada and Group Captain (Dr) Rajesh Kumar as members has recommended that DGCA issue instructions that all airlines must “commence diversion to the closest suitable airport once a flight crew incapacitation is confirmed”. It has also asked DGCA to ensure airlines train their flight crew to handle such situation in simulator sessions once every year.
 
