Pune: The deputy director of education of the Pune division, Dinkar Temkar, issued a circular on Thursday, asking teachers of unaided schools to return to work and resume evaluating answer sheets of Standard X and XII board  , or face consequences.

 The letter invoked various sections under the Maharashtra Private School Teachers’ Act, 1981 and stated it was mandatory on them to carry out any work given by the education department. Else, they would be held responsible for dereliction of duty.
 
 The circular was issued to end the stalemate over the board exams’ answer script evaluation. Over 50,000 answer sheets of Standard X and XII were lying in the Pune division board of the   of   last week because the schools had sent them back to the board. The board had issued another circular on March 15, asking the teachers to resume work.
 
 Tanaji Naik, the president of the Maharashtra Unaided School Teachers’ Association, had earlier sent a letter to the board, stating that the boycott of work would not be called off till their salaries were paid by the government. He did not respond to calls and messages, seeking his view on the latest circular.
 
 The teachers of unaided schools are paid by the management of the institutions employing them. A section of the teachers claimed that they were not being paid at par with the teachers of government schools.
 
 B K Dahiphale, secretary, Pune division board, said, “We have asked them (teachers of unaided schools) to get back to duty. According to rules, they are not supposed to boycott any work delegated to them, especially those related to the board exams. It has been specified in the act, governing their employment rules. But still they keep doing it, which is not right.”
 
 Dahiphale assured that the teachers would call off their strike within 4-5 days. “They had done the same thing last year. They had resorted to similar means the year before to that, too. But they always come around because their demands are not right. This year also we shall have no problem in declaring the results on time,” said Dahiphale.
 
 V B Paymal, the divisional chairman of the board, had earlier said in case the teachers did not withdraw their boycott within a week, the teachers of aided school would be asked to evaluate the papers. “We have thousands of teachers in aided schools and we shall seek their help. The students need not worry. We shall declare the results on time,” Paimal had said.
 
 
