BENGALURU: When   visited a slum in Delhi as a teenager, he was aghast at the  . “I was 18 and was moved by the  . It was then that I realized that educating children and working towards their welfare will guarantee a better tomorrow, both for them and the community,” said Rahul, 25, who was then a student of RV College of Engineering.

 Turning his thoughts into reality, Rahul founded Juvenile Care in 2010, a platform which allows people from across India to work towards child care. Seven years on, the Bengaluru-based trust boasts of over 15,000 volunteers and nine chapters across the country.
 
 It works as a bridge which connects volunteers who want to make a difference in the lives of underprivileged children. The organization is entirely run by youngsters — all five trustees are graduates.
 
 Based on the situation in a particular area, the organization designs development programmes for kids, which are implemented by the respective volunteers. “The main volunteer base differs from city to city — from students in Assam and corporate employees in Pune to housewives in Delhi. The programmes they conduct are based on their skills and interests...Educating children both in rural and urban areas is a must. It is only through education that we can change regressive mindsets,” explained Rahul.
 
 The trust has about 1300 volunteers in Bengaluru. “Here, we mainly focus on conducting awareness campaigns on issues like gender violence and child labour. We have undertaken the SHE campaign, which aims to protect womens’ rights by spreading awareness about the violence they face on a daily basis. We also act as a liaison between the victims and law-enforcing agencies,” said Rahul.
 
 In Assam, the organization is working towards spreading awareness on child trafficking and educating kids. Hansikaa P Mahanta, 20, northeast coordinator, said: “Human trafficking is a serious problem in Assam and other northeastern states. Children are kidnapped from villages on a daily basis. I contacted several NGOs but they didn’t seem very enthusiastic. So, I turned to Rahul. Now, we have more than 20 volunteers in the region.” 
 
 
 
 
 Providing livelihood to the poor is high on the organization’s agenda. It has adopted a village, Bhadrapura, on the outskirts of Bengaluru and undertaken an ambitious project by setting up a masala manufacturing cottage industry there. “We need to focus on individual villages and push up their gross domestic product (GDP). One way of doing this is to establish profitable cottage industries that utilize the skills of the local population,” he said. If the industry in Bhadrapura is successful, the trust will replicate the initiative in villages across the state and country. 
 
 
 
 While they focus largely on education, the volunteers have also undertaken initiatives to improve sanitation, educate girl children on menstrual health, and impart life skills and lessons on personality development and confidence building. The installation of a solar energy plant and setting up of a primary health centre are among their other projects.
 
