KOLKATA: A day before the inauguration of the two-day ‘Bengal Global Business Summit 2017’ (BGBS), where a delegation led by the   Damian Hinds will take part,   Boris Johnson will meet chief minister   at Nabanna on January 19. Johnson, who is known for his love for India, will also attend the bicentenary celebrations at Presidency University after the meeting.

 Though the state administration is not divulging much details about Johnson’s visit, sources in the state secretariat indicated that the British diplomat would meet the chief minister to have an idea about the last-minute preparations for the summit. 
 
 “He will be reaching Kolkata from New Delhi, where he will be staying on January 18. He will meet the chief minister and also participate in a programme of the Presidency University,” a senior official at Nabanna said.
 
 Johnson’s visit is certainly a follow-up to Mamata Banerjee’s London visit in 2015 where she had meetings with UK ministers as well as leading industrialists like Swraj Paul and Diageo CEO. 
 
 “UK has shown special interest in partnering with the state government in the restoration and maintenance of the numerous heritage buildings in the city. Though nothing is confirmed as yet, there is a possibility that the partnership between the UK and the state might take the centre stage of the discussion,” another senior Nabanna official said. 
 
 During Mamata Banerjee’s five-day visit to London, 21 MoUs were signed. In the health sector, an MoU was signed between the Institute of Health and Family Welfare, Government of West Bengal and the UK’s Royal College of General Practitioners for technical support for running post-graduate diploma courses on family medicine. It also included a technical collaboration for development of micro climate controlled bio-domes for the ‘Eco Tourism Township’ in Kolkata. “It is also expected that these will find mention during the discussion,” the official said.
 
 After the meeting Johnson will go to the Presidency University. It may be noted that the university signed two key MoUs on academic exchange programmes — one with the University of Cambridge in the field of arts and humanities and another with London-based School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS) for the study of Bengali language. Johnson will leave for London on that night itself.
 
 
