RANCHI: LPG dealers here have started using  ,   and other e-wallets in a bid to promote   transaction. Most LPG gas delivery vehicles now bear the Quick Response (QR) code of e-wallets on their windshields. 

 Chairman of petroleum subcommittee of Federation of   and Industries (FJCCI),  , said, "There are 30 LPG dealers in Ranchi, all of whom have started using e-wallets to promote cashless transaction. Now, gradually the customers are also getting used to the e-wallets."
 
 Very soon, the vendors will also be seen carrying a card-swiping machines for LPG delivery. Bhatt said, "All the dealers have applied to bank for requisition of swipe machines. The banks have assured us that they will provide us with the machines as soon as possible."
 
 There is a need of at least 150 swipe machines, a minimum of five for each of the 30 dealers. However, there are big dealers who have around a dozen delivery vans so they require much more than five swipe machines for making the system completely cashless.
 
 Many consumers prefer cashless transaction as the crunch for small currency notes still prevails in the city.  , one of the 1.75 lakh LPG consumers of the city said, "The cost of a subsidized cylinder is Rs 654. The ATMs are only dispensing Rs2,000 notes and the vendors do not always have change for the bigger currency notes. This is the reason I prefer paying through e-wallets."
 
 However, getting used to cashless transaction will be a time-consuming process for both consumers as well as dealers. A dealer said, "When the transaction was in cash, we were able to see how much money is coming in every day. Now, we have to check the bank statements to know the sale. Getting used to this process will take some time."
 
 Meanwhile, the delivery boys are the ones who have to suffer the most as a result of promotion of cashless transaction. A delivery boy said, "When people used to pay in cash, they would give us a tip of Rs 5 or Rs 10 to take the cylinders to their doorsteps. Now, that no cash is involved, we are not being given any tip."
 
 
