LUCKNOW: The   report of Dr Joydeep Sircar shows the 45-year-old chest specialist had sustained two bullet injuries at different positions in the skull. In a shocking revelation,   shows gap between the two wounds—right above the forehead and near the left ear—is of at least 8cm.

 Found bleeding profusely on the terrace of his bungalow on February 2 evening, Dr Sircar was declared brought dead at   at 6.20 pm. It was only after his body reached the mortuary that city police stepped in to investigate. The family told police the doctor had committed suicide leaving behind a note claiming responsibility for the act.
 
 But the postmortem report does not corroborate the suicide theory. Accessed exclusively by TOI, the report shows the two shots were fired from entirely different angles. Noting four injuries caused by the gunshots, the two government doctors who conducted the autopsy stated that it cannot be ascertained whether the shots were self-induced.
 
 Medical-legal and forensic science expert Dr Abhas Kumar Singh said, “After going through the postmortem report, I am not convinced with the suicide theory and the case needs to be probed thoroughly. It seems impossible for somebody to shoot himself twice at different places in the skull.”
 
 Having examined the report, Dr Abhas said both shots have been fired from different angles and directions. “After going through the postmortem report, anyone suggesting it was a suicide wants us to believe the dead man fired another shot at himself,” said the doctor, who heads forensic medicine department at a private university located across Kursi road. Despite there being two gunshot wounds, city police treated doctor’s death as suicide initially.
 
 So far, no FIR has been registered and police are relying solely on opinion of experts posted at Mahanagar forensic science laboratory for further direction. Meanwhile, on Tuesday, Mahanagar police took down statement of a Chinhat-based doctor who was the last person to speak to Sircar on February 2. “Sircar had called the doctor around 5.30pm and wanted to seek an appointment for his daughter,” said an officer.
 
