PATNA: The inauguration of four remaining galleries of   – regional art, contemporary art, historical art and Bihari diaspora – has been deferred from March 22 (Bihar Diwas) to October 18 (tentatively). Chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh, who held a review meeting of Bihar Museum on Thursday, directed officials concerned to expedite the ongoing works in the museum and make the galleries ready by the revised deadline.

 The four galleries were initially planned to be opened in 2016, but the work got delayed due to various issues, including ban on construction of big government buildings by   (NGT) due to which all works were suspended from September 16 and November 4.
 
 The world class museum, a brainchild of CM Nitish Kumar, was inaugurated by him a few weeks before the announcement assembly election on August 7, 2015. As of now, only two galleries are open for visitors – orientation and children gallery. The state government has roped in consultants from countries like Canada, Japan and Singapore to ensure that the museum is at par with international standards.
 
 “The chief secretary asked the officials concerned to ensure proper coordination between the consultants and the executing agencies to ensure that the work is completed on time. He also issued instructions for resolving issues related to faults in design. Besides, teams would be sent to Germany and China to finalise the consignment of internal furnishing, including glass panels, to be used in the galleries,” said a senior official in art, culture and youth affairs department. 
 
 Sources claimed that the consultants and architects involved in the project could not foresee several local factors in the initial stages, which led to issues in coordination and consequent delay in the project.
 
 “Though the agencies involved in the project are experts in their respective fields, they could not foresee several local factors in the museum project. Thus, they keep making modifications and additions in the project, which further delays the work. Besides, there have been frequent conflicts during the work between architectural consultant Maki & Associates and L&T, the construction agency,” an official associated with the project said.
 
 Sources claimed that regional, contemporary and historical art galleries would be dedicated to different art forms from Bihar. The majestic sculpture of Didarganj Yakshi, which is kept at Patna Museum after its discovery in 1917, is also proposed to be shifted to one of the art galleries at Bihar Museum. Bihari Diaspora gallery, on the other hand, would be dedicated to renowned personalities hailing from Bihar, who have brought pride to the state.
 
 
