PUDUKKOTTAI: Two youths were gored to death and 174 injured during a jallikattu event held on Sunday at Rapoosal village in   district, around 350km south of Chennai, a day after   promulgated an ordinance to allow the sport. 

 Meanwhile, a 49-year-old protester died of dehydration in Madurai while demanding a “permanent solution” to ensure unhindered conduct of the traditional sport. Rapoosal was one of several places in the state where jallikattu was held. The victims —  , 25, and Mohan, 26 — were killed by charging bulls. A charging bull pierced Raja’s abdomen while   got rib injuries when a bull knocked him down. The two were given first aid by the medical team and rushed to the Pudukkottai government hospital, but they succumbed to their injuries, said Pudukkottai SP J Loganathan. Among the injured, 32 were taken to the hospital. Others who were injured were given first aid.   said that all necessary arrangements were in place at the venue to ensure safe conduct of the event. He added that the victims sustained injuries in sensitive areas which led to their death. The event was flagged off by health minister C Vijayabaskar, who is also the local minister. 
 
 A total of 210 bulls were let loose in the bull taming arena, making it among the biggest jallikattu events organised on a short notice in the state. The event, which was also witnessed by education minister K Pandiarajan, went on till 2 pm. Protesters at Alanganallur in Madurai, however, refused to conduct the sport till a permanent end to the ban was ensured. CM O Panneerselvam, who had announced that he would inaugurate Jallikattu at Alanganallur, had to stay back in a hotel in Madurai following the protests there. Pudukkottai district collector S Ganesh said all required arrangements had been made for the jallikattu event at Rapoosal. He said that bull tamers and bulls were allowed in the arena only after prior medical examination. It was ensured that all tamers were fit and not under the influence of alcohol. Four medical teams were kept ready to address any emergency, he added.
 
