PUNE: A   that went sour eventually turned violent when a man beat up his   and nearly choked her to death during the wee hours of Friday morning, while they were both returning home in an office vehicle.

 The Khadki police have registered an FIR against   (25), who works as a process associate at an  .
 
 While returning home after their night shift, Patel and his ex-girlfriend started fighting over the fact that he had asked her for her mobile number. Since the two of them had broken up, the girl had no wish to stay in touch with him, much to his chagrin. Angered by her continued refusal, Patel allegedly started beating up the complainant in the car itself. He then tried to open the door and push her out. At this, the terrified driver stopped the car.
 
 But, this did not stop Patel. When the car stopped, he allegedly dragged the complainant out of the car by her hair and then punched and kicked her in her stomach and hit her constantly. He even tried to strangle her, at which she fell unconscious and was later taken to the hospital. Patel has been charged under Section 307 (attempt to murder), 354 (whoever assaults or uses criminal force to any woman), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).
 
 According to the police, the two had been dating for a few years, but decided to break it off because Patel’s family wasn’t comfortable with their relationship. Patel, however, wanted to stay in touch and keep the relationship going even if he could not marry her.
 
 During the interrogation, he admitted to the cops that he had wanted to finish her off and was very upset that she did not want to stay in touch. The girl had told the police that both of them had signed a notarised statement stating that they would not remain in a relationship. Police are currently in the process of procuring this document.
 
 While Patel’s family hails from Bengaluru, he was born and brought up in Pune and lives at Pimple Gurav. He completed his B Com and then did an MBA, after which he started working. The girl, who is 24 years old, is from Dombivali, Thane, but has been living in Pimple Gurav with a roommate.
 
 API Dilip Salunkhe of Khadki police station said, “The incident occurred around 4 am on Friday near Holkar Bridge, Khadki. The girl was rushed to the hospital after the incident. However, Patel had fled the scene by the time our team arrived at the spot. We then picked him up from his house and presented him in court in the afternoon. During the first round of the investigation, he told us that he wanted to kill the girl as he was angry with her. There were two more people in the car other than the driver who have been called for questioning, but they have not come forward yet.”
 
  The incident occurred around 4 am on Friday near Holkar Bridge, Khadki. The girl was rushed to the hospital afterwards. During the first round of the investigation, Patel told us that he wanted to kill the girl as he was angry with her
 
