PANAJI:   Sports Club are hoping to turn their season around with the signing of   as chief coach.
 
  The former Salgaocar coach and among the most qualified coaches in India will replace   as he takes charge of the team on Saturday.
  
  Alfred, however, will continue with the team as assistant coach.
  
  “I think Derrick will help this team a lot with his experience. He has a fantastic record in the   and is among the best coaches around. I am sure we will turn over a new leaf now,” said Churchill Brothers owner Churchill Alemao.
  
  Churchill Brothers are struggling this season after pocketing just one win at the end of the first leg -- a shock victory over defending champions Bengaluru FC at the Tilak Maidan in Vasco. Churchill are placed at the bottom with six points from nine matches and now face a herculean task to climb up the ladder. With Minerva Punjab FC, Chennai City FC and DSK Shivajians, all exempted from relegation due to their direct entry into the I-League, Churchill will have to finish above Mumbai FC who are placed eighth with seven points from nine matches.
  
  Aizawl FC (17 points) and Shillong Lajong FC (13 points) have given a good account of themselves in the first phase.
  
  “We have a competitive squad but losing out on the finer points. Like in the last game (against Chennai City), we took the lead and conceded an equalizer almost immediately. In some of the matches which we lost, we could have so easily been on the winning side,” said Alemao.
  
  The signing of Derrick comes after more than a month of suspense over Churchill’s former coach Joseph Afusi. Churchill were in touch with the Nigerian since being told by the All India Football Federation (AIFF) that they were being re-instated in the I-League. Afusi, at first, struggled to procure a work visa but Churchill eventually ran out of patience with the coach.
  
  With just nine matches left to be played in the league, Derrick will have his task cut out but has enough experience, and credentials, to bail out the team after successful stints with Vasco Sports Club, Mahindra United, Pune FC and Salgaocar FC.
  
  Churchill Brothers play their next three matches at home. At first, they will tackle Minerva Punjab FC on Sunday, before taking on DSK Shivajians (February 26) and Mohun Bagan (March 4).
