HYDERABAD: Three people, including a four-month-old infant, died in rain-related incidents in the city on Monday.

 In the first incident, a physically-challenged person and his four-month-old son were buried alive in debris when a retaining wall collapsed on their thatched house at Sing addikunta on Road No. 10  .
 
 Around 5.30pm, Yadulu 35, a polio-affected person and his son were buried unde six-feet mud and debris.
 
 "Yadulu's wife, on reali sing the danger, first moved their daughter. She was to mo ve her son and Yadulu, but be fore she could reach their hou se, a land slip occurred from the nearby hillock, abutting the nala,'' Sheikpet manda revenue officer (MRO) Ramu lu told TOI.
 
 "At the location, which i on a hillock, there is a nala Due to the heavy rain, there was water stagnation and the retaining wall could not sustain it, leading to the land slip.The mud and debris from a nearby retaining wall of the hotel fell on the thatched house," Banjara Hills inspector Srinivas told TOI.
 
 Several families stay at the same location. Sensing danger, they moved to a safer place.
 
 As the location is difficult to reach, rescue operations started only around 7.30 pm after the MRO, GHMC and police reached the spot. After a nearly three-and-half-hour operation, their bodies were pulled out from the debris, Sheikpet MRO Ramulu said.
 
 In another incident, a 35-year-old man, who went to have tea at a local cafe at Hussainialam, got electrocuted.
 
 Police said  , a resident of Yerrakuntala, went to Obaid Hotel to have tea.Even though the downpour continued, Afsar decided to get out of the hotel. He started to walk on the road. A DCM van was parked next to an electric pole. Fearing there may be an open manhole, Afsar caught a DCM touching a pole. As electricity flowed through the van, he got electrocuted. Realising that it was a case of electric shock, electric transmission was stopped in the locality, before the victim was attended to by locals.
 
 "Afsar died after he touched the DCM van. He was a sculptor at Murgi Chowk,'' Hussainialam police told TOI. A case was booked under section 174 of the CrPC.
 
