Nagpur: Despite a national ban, beacons (red, amber and blue) continue to lure the officials, especially of the Nagpur city police. The enforcement agency — Regional Transport Office-- is looking the other way.  In its May 1 notification, the Union ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) specified that the vehicles designated for following emergency and disaster management duties including control of fire, police, defence forces or paramilitary forces for maintenance of law and order and the duties relating to management of natural disasters including earthquake, flood, landslide, cyclone, tsunami and man-made disaster including nuclear disaster, chemical disaster and biological disaster are allowed to use multi-coloured red, blue and white light on their top.  A check done by TOI on Thursday revealed the Nagpur Police are yet to remove amber beacons from their vehicles. TOI found even police vehicles parked outside the office of DCP traffic police with a beacon. DCP (traffic) Smartna Patil is on leave but a senior official from city traffic police said the department had not received any instruction about removing amber lights from vehicles of higher ups. TOI also found many police vehicles near police headquarters using amber lights in violation of the notification. No police vehicle parked outside the Traffic HQ was seen with a multi-colour flasher. State chief minister Devendra Fadnavis got it removed from his official vehicle the day Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the move in mid-April. Most bureaucrats, ministers and other designated heads of municipal corporation removed beacons from their vehicles but it was still easy to distinguish the VIP vehicles as they continued using flags of their organizations.  NMC’s fire and emergency services department too is not up to date. Most fire tenders are having amber beacons installed. Two emergency services vehicles are having red and blue flashers. Chief fire officer Rajendra Uchake said department would soon replace the amber beacons with multi-coloured flasher lights. Commissioner of police K Venkatesh was not available for comments. Regional Transport Officer Sharad Jichkar said that the department would launch a drive against violation of MoRTH directives within a couple of days. Traffic expert Tushar Mandlekar while welcoming the Union government’s decision, was apprehensive whether it would end the VIP culture. “Usage of beacon atop police vehicle is also a contempt of apex court’s order,” he added. Beacons may be banned but misuse of official vehicles, officials staff for personal work still continues. Removing the red beacon may force VIP vehicles to move with other vehicles but the flags will continue to mark them out, he pointed out.