MADURAI: The recent arrest of a gang for attempting to sell a six-month-old infant boy to a couple from Pudukkottai has again brought to the fore the baby selling racket prevalent in the district. The arrests come within a year of a similar gang being busted in the city. However, authorities admit that   has been going on behind their backs and that they are unable to track the culprits.

 So what keeps the baby sale racket thriving? Women who give birth to children out of wedlock as well as   turn out to be easy targets of brokers who get in touch with childless couples for lucrative deals. The long wait for legal adoptions and lack of awareness often drive parents to the illegal baby market. Experts say social stigma too plays a significant role in pushing some parents to secure a baby by hook or crook.
 
 In June 2016, the city police along with district child protection unit and Childline busted a gang and arrested six people including a woman doctor involved in the sale of babies. The same month, a soothsayer from Theni district was arrested for stealing an infant playing outside a house in a village near Saptur.In 2013, the baby of a woman named T Meenakshi of Bommapatti was stolen from   in Madurai. Madurai district child protection officer M Viviliaraja says, “Illegal sales do take place. However, it is practically impossible to trace them because we don't get information. Unless there is a problem between the motherbroker-buyer the business will remain under wraps,“ says he.
 
 M Jeeva of The Campaign Against   said that there was no mechanism in place to keep track of children after they were born. Many of them landed in wrong hands. In the infamous Mose Ministries case in Trichy , the children were not even provided good education. Nowadays, even doctors were involved in selling infants.
 
 What makes matters worse is that even some doctors do not seem to be aware of the criminality of baby sales.“Recently , a doctor called me to inform that a mother who had given birth to a child in his hospital does not want it.She was willing to give the baby to someone looking for it for money . I warned the doctor that it is illegal and should not be encouraged,“ says Viviliaraja.
 
 He points out that a couple looking to adopt a child can always approach the Central Adoption Resource Authority, where they can register themselves for adoption. In four months, which is required for the paper work and verification, they stand a chance of adopting a baby.
 
 There are 14 specialised adoption agencies in the state. Two in Madurai Grace Kennett Foundation Hospital and Claretian Mercy Home -and one in Trichy , SOC SEED, are authorised to facilitate adoption. In all, 34 children were adopted in Madurai alone while between 2013 and 2016 as many as 143 children were given for adoption.
 
