BENGALURU: Having to choose between her three children and feed the one that was most starved is an everyday routine for Kaveriamma, who spent 20 years of her life as an anganwadi helper. But when it was time to raise her voice against injustice, Kaveriamma had no choice but to leave her ailing husband behind and join thousands of anganwadi workers at Freedom Park since Monday.

 Sleeping in rows at Freedom Park and spilling into  , over 10,000 anganwadi teachers and helpers from 25 districts gathered with nothing but a few clothes and food that didn't make it past one day.
 
 Water, food and toilets were being fought over on the second day of the protest against the state government. Their only demand was an increment in salaries and removal of their general suffering. While teachers are paid between Rs 6,000 and Rs 7,000 currently, their demand is to increase this to Rs 10,000.Helpers get Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 and are demanding Rs 7,000.
 
 Sharadha has left behind her teenage daughter who has just attained puberty, to fight for her right and assure her family a better life. “I lost my husband recently and until now, I had no problem getting the family through every month. But I'm here with my son, while my daughter is hopefully safe back home. I will not leave until the government gives me my rightful due,“ said Sharadha.
 
 With kids in their arms, it was a battle to grab a packet of food which would stop the cries of hundreds of children who accompanied their mothers on the crusade.
 
 Renuka Nagaraj, mother of a three-year-old, got a call in the middle of the night. She packed her bags with whatever she could find and boarded the train to Bengaluru with her toddler. With food lasting them only a day, Renuka doesn't know how long it will take her to return home. “I got a call from my union leader and boarded the train immediately with five teachers and helpers,“ she said.
 
 Describing their salary as something even housemaids wouldn't accept, S Varalakshmi, president of   said, “We have been fighting for 25 years to convince the government to hike our salaries by at least Rs 4,000. In the budget, the government allocated only Rs 110 crore for anganwadis, but should have allocated Rs 612 crore this year. We are tired of false promises and hopes the state has been giving us. This time, we shall show the power of women's unity.“
 
 After a meeting with the chief minister, labour and law ministers, she told the media on Tuesday afternoon, “The ministers said they will call for a meeting to resolve the issue on April 19. We plan to continue the protest as the workers are not agreeable to this decision. More people are expected tomorrow (Wednesday). This is a crisis and we are not budging.“
 
 Water came as a relief only on Tuesday afternoon, when two BWSSB water tankers showed up at the venue. However, by then eight women had been taken to   after falling unconscious. aIt was difficult last night as we had no toilets or water but we somehow survived it.We are happy that there are people supporting our cause but we won't leave till the government gives an answer,“ said Rajalakshmi N, a helper.
 
 Ratna Kempaiah, a teacher, said the chief minister had been giving them false hopes for years now. “I don't think Siddaramaiah understands the meaning of hunger and starvation. Ask him to live for a day like us,“ she said.
 
 “Years ago, during a similar protest, he spoke compassionately about our plight and said we are daughters of this land. But words are not enough. He has done nothing for us,“ Ratna added.
 
 (Inputs by Sushmitha B and Neha Jain)
 
 
 
 
 The plight of poorly-paid anganwadi workers demanding a hike in the pittance given to them, has finally attracted some attention of lawmakers. What makes their condition more pathetic is that as “honorary workers'' they are deemed part-time workers and not covered under the Minimum Wages Act, which mandates a minimum wage of Rs 10,000 per month, despite their unparalleled services in women and child care development. Anganwadi teachers and workers put in more working hours than regular teachers and play a dominant role in providing basic education, nutrition and health in rural areas. It is regrettable to note that despite their social commitment and diligence, they are treated worse than Class IV government employees.
 
