NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi has issued a stern warning to cow vigilante groups on the eve of the   of  , saying no one can take law and order into their own hands.

 "PM Modi has asked states to take strict action against those violating law in the name of cow protection. No person or group can be allowed to take the law into their own hands," said Union minister   quoting the Prime Minister.
 
 Kumar was addressing mediapersons after attending an all-party meeting on Sunday, where PM Modi and senior   leaders were present. 
 
 The Prime Minister's barbed remarks came in the wake of reports of 
  over allegations of carrying or eating beef.
 
 "There is a law on cow protection in the country. But committing crimes in the name of cow protection out of personal animosities cannot be tolerated," PM Modi said
 
 He alleged that some political parties were portraying cow protection as a communal issue to gain political mileage, which is detrimental to the country's secular fibre.
 
 "It ( ) should not be given political or communal colour; the nation doesn't benefit from it. Everyone should come together and put an end to it," he said.
 
 Last month, 
  and said that "killing in the name of cow worship is not acceptable".
 
 At the high-level meeting, PM Modi also expressed his gratitude to all political parties for their consensus on the Goods and Services Tax (GST), which ensured the swift and efficient roll out of the landmark tax reform on July 1.
 
 He also aired his concern over the flood situation in the eastern and north-eastern states of the country. As many as 80 people have lost their lives in the floods that have hit 58 districts in the Northeast.
 
 The monsoon session of Parliament, which begins on Monday, is expected to be stormy with the Opposition parties all set to corner the government over a range of issues concerning national security, foreign policy and other domestic matters. Voting to 
  is also scheduled for the same day, in which 776 members of Parliament will cast their ballot.
 
 
  said it would have been very good had a consensus been reached on the presidential candidate. He, however, said "high level of dignity" has been maintained by both sides during the campaign and no "ill will or bad language" has been used.
 
 
 
 
 
 
