JALANDHAR: Over a dozen former and present AAP office-bearers of different levels joined TMC along with several volunteers from Jalandhar on Friday after levelling serious allegations against the party’s top leadership. Welcoming them, TMC Punjab unit president   said he felt deceived by AAP as its supremo,  , had refused an alliance with the party.

 The latest defectors of AAP include leaders who had been working in the party since its inception and some who had been with it even during Kejriwal’s   (IAC) campaign. Tarandeep Singh Sunny, a founder officer-bearer in the party’s Punjab unit who had served on nine posts in the party, said even as he was aware of wrongdoings in the party, he had hoped till Thursday that Kejriwal would take corrective measures. He said he was recently appoined state joint secretary of AAP’s youth wing. “As the party also denied ticket to founder member Ashok Talwar from Amritsar Central, it showed that AAP’s only intent was of using volunteers and then throwing them,” said Sunny, who had been a member of the party’s state-level screening committee and campaign committee during  
 
 He challenged Kejriwal to give names of all party candidates and the party they had been imported from. “Let him declare in public while standing beside these candidates that they were his comrades,” he said. “He will not do so. There is ‘some other’ system working in (AAP’s) Punjab (unit).”
 
 He said he was privy to the internal workings. “AAP leaders from Delhi had planned that if “the party would form government in Punjab, then 80% of those who would actually run the government would be brought from Delhi and the rest would be yes-mens from Punjab. It was with this intent that leaders and observers from Punjab worked to throw out or sideline leaders of volunteers who had spine and were known for their integrity, while non-entities, who were ready to become stooges, were promoted,” he said. 
 
 He alleged that as the issue of “Punjabis versus non-Punjabis” came up in the party, a leader from Delhi had said that Singh was also suffixed to his name, but some people were bringing up the issue unnecessarily. “As we campaigned in Delhi, we had the dream that someday Sheila Dikshit would be in jail. How a leader who could not touch Dikshit would be able to touch Majithia? All these claims are hollow,” he said. 
 
 Brar said Kejriwal’s statement that there were no talks with TMC supremo Mamta Banerjee about a truck with TMC was misleading and a self-goal. “It not only lowered AAP’s prospects in Punjab, but also damaged the possible formation of a secular alliance in 2019 at a national level,” he said. “Till December 22, AAP Punjab affairs in charge Sanjay Singh had publicly said an alliance would take place, but then suddenly they backed out.”
 
