NEW DELHI: In  , with a slight alteration in the franchise name and a change in captaincy,   have taken a fresh step, but the road ahead is not an easy one. Losing R Ashwin and Mitchell Marsh before the season were big blows, and how fatigued the new captain   must be after a rigorous, bitter and hard-fought Test series against India is palpable. 

 For the Australian to lead a side whose players he isn't too familiar with - now that MS Dhoni is no longer the captain - will be a daunting task.
 
 In Ashwin's absence, the bowling department - especially spin - is weakened. Pune have Adam Zampa and the wily Imran Tahir, but playing two overseas spinner looks highly unlikely, and the lack of depth in the Indian contingent is also alarming. Ashok Dinda, Ishwar Pandey and Jaydev Unadkat have been around for a while but have only produced quality performances sporadically. In such a scenario, Pune will need their latest addition Shardul Thakur to step up.
 
 The new head-turner Ben Stokes, despite being the costliest buy in   history, has never seen anything like this. The pressure of a tournament as tiring and demanding as the IPL is bound to test Stokes and he'll need to remains unfazed.
 
 
 
  
 Smith loves playing against India. Exhibit A: the recently-concluded four-Test series. In IPL 9, Smith racked up scores of 31*, 46, 101* and 45 before an injury ruled him out. With an international leader such as Smith at the helm, things can turn on a dime.
  
 
 
  
 Someone who started off as an opener for CSK in the inaugural IPL, Fleming's transformation from a player to being the side's coach over the years has been exceptional. But Pune are nothing like their predecessor CSK, at least not on account of what we've seen so far. Fleming said last year how the unit as unsettled. This year it looks better and both he and the franchise will keen on repeating the same success with Smith that he previously has with Dhoni.
  
 
  Steven Smith (capt), MS Dhoni, Ajinkya Rahane, Faf du Plessis, Ashok Dinda, Ankush Bains, Rajat Bhatia, Ankit Sharma, Ishwar Pandey, Adam Zampa, Jaskaran Singh, Baba Aparajith, Deepak Chahar, Usman Khawaja, Mayank Agarwal, Ben Stokes, Manoj Tiwary, Jaydev Unadkat, Rahul Chahar, Daniel Christian, Lockie Ferguson, Saurabh Kumar, Milind Tandon, Rahul Tripathi, Shardul Thakur, Imran Tahir
 
 
 1 Ajinkya Rahane, 2 Mayank Agarwal, 3 Faf du Plessis, 4 Steven Smith (capt), 5 Ben Stokes, 6 MS Dhoni (wk), 7 Rajat Bhatia, 8 Ankit Sharma, 9 Ishwar Pandey, 10 Ashok Dinda, 11 Adam Zampa 
 
 
  A settled top order looks the most bankable aspect at the moment. Ajinkya Rahane scored 480 runs at 43.63 last season, including six half-centuries, and with new recruit Mayank Agarwal the franchise has a solid opening combo. With Faf du Plessis, Smith, Stokes and Dhoni to follow, the batting looks very good. 
 
 For the first time in the IPL's decade-long history, Dhoni is not the captain and how well he fits in the XI depends on how well he can contribute with the bat. Dhoni played some exciting knocks in the Vijay Hazare Trophy so it's not as if he has no match practice or form behind him. The Smith-Dhoni factor will be a huge component in deciding how the Supergaint fare. The positives for them remain their stock of overseas player, similar to last year. Besides Tahir and Zampa, you've got Faf du Plessis, Daniel Christian - a household name in the Big Bash, Usmaan Khawaja, Lockie Fergusen.
 
 
  In their debut season, Pune finished second from bottom.
  
 
  Last year, injuries were the biggest setback and what forced an underwhelming season. Also, Smith will need to look at his Indian reserves. Deepak Chahar and Rahul Sharma are two options he needs to take risks with. With foreign players in form, the swashbuckling combination of Stokes and Dhoni in the middle order, Pune can pose serious threat and put behind them the low of last season.
  
 
 April 6: vs. Mumbai Indians (Home), April 8: vs. Kings XI Punjab (Away), April 11: vs. Delhi Daredevils (Home), April 14: vs. Gujarat Lions (Away), April 16: vs. Royal Challengers Bangalore (Away), April 22: vs.   (Home), April 24: vs. Mumbai Indians (Away), April 26: vs. Kolkata Knight Riders (Home), April 29: vs. Royal Challengers Bangalore (Home), May 01: vs. Gujarat Lions (Home), May 03: vs. Kolkata Knight Riders (Away), May 06: vs. Sunrisers Hyderabad (Away), May 12: vs. Delhi Daredevils (Away), May 14: vs. Kings XI Punjab (Home)
 
