INDORE: With the aim to preserve the historic   under the   plan,   is planning to shift shops in the area to some other place in the city. The civic body has written to the collector for permission to provide around two acres of land for this.

 “We have given the collector a suggestion to provide land near old SP office as we found the area suitable for shifting shops,” said  , additional collector, Indore Municipal Corporation.
 
 Saxena said they were awaiting a response from the collector and would take a step only once they receive the nod. Officials said they were in talks with shop owners and had so far received positive responses from them.
 
 There are around 35 shops on IMC’s list that need to be shifted. The task would however not be that easy. Shopkeepers have been adamant to move from the area since a long time. They claim that they have been running their businesses for many decades.
 
 Administrative officials had been receiving complaints from various quarters about shops damaging the original structure of Rajwada. People have lodged complaints alleging shop owners have damaged Rajwada’s wall. They have even dug into the wall.
 
 A gazette published on April 26, 1985, had declared   a protected monument. This prescribes that no structure can come up within 100 metres of the monument.
 
 Studies of the archaeological department in the past had also revealed that shops had damaged the structure.
 
 Residents here claimed shops have been operating near Rajwada for centuries. In 1984 riots, many were destroyed. The shops adjacent to Rajwada were also burnt along with the palace. But they started operating again.
 
 Rajwada is set to get a major facelift with the Smart City project being implemented in the area. It has been selected for a retrofitting project (developing amenities by keeping the heritage intact).
 
 Under the project, 674 acres of Rajwada will be developed without dismantling the existing structures. The cost would be Rs 2,359 crore. The project will cover nearby markets, streets, Krishnapura, Subhash Marg, Bada Ganpati and MOG Lines. Some of the work has already begun.
 
 
