NEW DELHI: A special   court on Friday convicted former coal secretary   and others in a case pertaining to the allocation of a coal block to Kamal Sponge Steel and Power Limited (KSSPL). 

 Gupta is the first secretary-rank officer to be convicted in a case pertaining to coal block allocation.
 
 Special CBI judge Bharat Parashar also convicted the coal ministry’s former joint secretary K S Kropha and K C Samaria, who was then director in the ministry’s section dealing with allocation of coal blocks, besides KSSPL and its former managing director P K Ahluwalia under the Prevention of Corruption Act and for criminal conspiracy.
 
 The court found all of them guilty of cheating and corruption in the allocation of Rudrapur coal block in Madhya Pradesh to KSSPL after the CBI filed a case of alleged irregularities against them.
 
 Posting the date for pronouncing the quantum of punishment on May 22, the court acquitted chartered accountant Amit Goyal of all charges.
 
 Gupta enjoys considerable sympathy among both serving and retired bureaucrats, who consider him to be a collateral victim in the clamour for accountability for the mega scam in allocation of coal blocks under the UPA government. “He simply happened to be at the wrong place at a wrong time and got caught in the maelstrom he could not have dodged simply because of the position he occupied as secretary of the ministry,” said an officer sympathetic to Gupta.
 
 The IAS Officers’ Association declined to comment, saying the case was sub judice.
 
 A special CBI court on Friday convicted former coal secretary H C Gupta and others in a case pertaining to the allocation of a coal block to Kamal Sponge Steel and Power Limited (KSSPL). Gupta is the first secretary-rank officer to be convicted in a case pertaining to coal block allocation.
 
 Special CBI judge Bharat Parashar also convicted the coal ministry's former joint secretary K S Kropha and K C Samaria, who was then director in the ministry's section dealing with allocation of coal blocks, besides KSSPL and its former managing director P K Ahluwalia under the Prevention of Corruption Act and for criminal conspiracy.
 
 The court found all of them guilty of cheating and corruption in the allocation of Rudrapur coal block in Madhya Pradesh to KSSPL after the CBI filed a case of alleged irregularities against them.
 
 Posting the date for prono uncing the quantum of punishment on May 22, the court acquitted chartered accountant Amit Goyal of all charges.
 
 Gupta enjoys considerable sympathy among both serving and retired bureaucrats, who consider him to be a collateral victim in the clamour for accountability for the mega scam in allocation of coal blocks under the UPA government.
 
 "He simply happened to be at the wrong place at a wrong time and got caught in the maelstrom he could not have dodged simply because of the position he occupied as secretary of the ministry," said an officer sympathetic to Gupta.
 
 The IAS Officers' Association declined to comment, saying the case was sub judice. The CBI had lodged an FIR accusing the com pany and the others involved of allegedly misrepresenting facts, including inflated net worth, to get the block. The accused were charged under various sections, including 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servants) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code and under provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act.
 
 The storm over the allocation of coal blocks, known as ' ', broke out after TOI first reported on March 12, 2012, a pre-final CAG report which said the government lost Rs 10.76 lakh crore by allotting blocks to commercial entities without bidding. Subsequently, upon the coal ministry's plea to take government entities and joint ventures with PSUs out of the report's purview since they were audited separately, CAG reduced the final loss figure to Rs 1.76 lakh crore, again first reported by TOI on May 22, 2012. Following the CAG report, the Supreme Court on May 24, 2014 cancelled allocation of all 204 blocks made since 1993.
 
 The case became a watershed in Indian politics and cost UPA, especially the Congress, electorally. Coalgate, together with the controversial allotment of radio frequency for telephony - popularly known as 2G scam - painted the coalition government led by   as riddled with corruption. All this worked in favour of BJP, which swept to power with a majority.
 
 
