BENGALURU: Keerthana would spend her after-school hours waiting for her parents to return from a toiling day at work. With no motivation to open her books at home, she would turn to them only the next day in class. 

 Not just Keerthana, the routine was same for most students of Government Higher Primary School (GHPS) in  , Kanakapura taluk, until recently, when students stepped into their teachers’ shoes and things began to look better. 
 
 An internationally acclaimed learning mechanism, peer teaching is a concept that’s making its way into government schools across Karnataka. In partnership with the state government, Sikshana Foundation has piloted a model across schools in rural Karnataka to bring back students’ interest in learning concepts. Presently a pilot, the foundation will launch the full-fledged motivation model in June. 
 
 Today, at GHPS, no subject is difficult as students don the role of teachers for 45 minutes a day. After their midday meal, groups of six students from each section spend time learning fractions, multiplication tables and reading and writing Kannada or English. A leader for each group, specially trained by the teachers, ensures that/her peers go home with enough knowledge about the day’s topics.
 
 “It’s difficult to pay close attention to each student in class. Therefore, in each class, we identify a student who’s good at grasping concepts, so that the child can teach his or her peers, taking time to explain the concepts as many times as required. This has definitely proved to be more effective,” said  , a mathematics teacher.
 
 Devika G, a class 6 student, said often her peers would turn up in class without doing their homework. “It was mostly because some concepts were more difficult to understand, even after the teacher would have taught it. But now, after we started learning together, it’s much easier,” said Devika.
 
 Chandra Mohan of class 7 is perhaps the brightest student in his class. He gives homework to his peers and makes sure they complete them before the next peer-learning session. “It has helped us become more confident, while learning new concepts,” said Chandra.
 
 “Sikshana focuses on improving fundamentals in each class and we have seen a remarkable improvement in our students. Parents are most excited about their children’s progress,” said headmistress Mary Savitha. 
 
 Brimming with confidence
 
 The abhyasa pusthaka (workbook), designed on the lines of the school curriculum, allows students to time themselves while completing a task. “Students even compete among themselves to get better. They challenge each other on who could complete the entire workbook first and who attempts maximum number of workbooks by the end of the academic year,” said Ansuyamma T M, a Sikshana mentor working with the school in Kadasi Koppa.
 
 “Students also take speed tests to improve their writing skills, for which they time themselves during class hours and see how many lines they can complete within a specific time,” she added. 
 
 Reaching for the stars 
 
 Green, pink and silver are the three colours that have transformed the lives of students at GHPS. The silver stars go to students who perform well in academics. The green stars are for those who come to school neatly dressed and keep the campus tidy. The pink star is for students who participate in extra-curricular activities or submit creative projects. “Attendance has significantly improved ever since we started giving them these stars,” said Keerthini, a teacher. 
 
 FOCUS ON MOTIVATIONAL MODULE
 
 Strengthening the public school system has been our vision. Over time we shifted our focus to form a motivational module which can be handed over to the government. We realized that motivation is what’s lacking in the government schooling system. A complete utilization of inputs wasn’t happening and we wondered what these kids did on going home. As parents never came back until evening, there would be none at home to even ask them how their day went. With focus on the child taking responsibility of his/her education, we provide the incentives, roping in parents and teachers to participate in the child’s learning progress 
 
 Prasanna V R | CEO, Sikshana Foundation 
 
 Sikshana touch
 
 * 200,000 students supported in 2016-17
 
 * 2,100 schools supported in 2016-17
 
 
