HYDERABAD: What an irony!   are waiting for citizenship of their own country. Several women facing such a predicament are from Hyderabad too.What has landed them in this unenviable position is their marriage to  .

 These women had gone to the neighbouring country after they were taken as brides by  , with family ties in Hyderabad that continued after the partition. As per the rules in Pakistan, a wife of its national from outside immediately gets citizenship of the country.
 
 “As we have seen, some women prefer to return to India due to some reasons. It could be that they are divorced or are widowed,“ joint commissioner of police, Special Branch, P Pramod Kumar told TOI. “It is understandable that they seek Indian citizenship again,“ he said.
 
 Having come back to Hyderabad, they have applied for Indian citizenship again. While some get it in due process, others are not so lucky because of various reasons. For this reason, a special drive was taken up last year at the instance of the Union home ministry on a number of long-pending applications for citizenship.
 
 According to official sources, out of the more than 180 applications for Indian citizenship, 70 reportedly were granted citizenship after their applications were scrutinized. The rest of them could not get citizenship due to either procedural lapses or the eligibility criteria not being fulfilled.They will still have the option to pursue their application for citizenship.
 
 Those who have applied for citizenship also include Pakistani women who have got married to Indian citizens. But unlike the rule in Pakistan, the newly-married woman does not get Indi an citizenship right away.She is eligible for Indian citizenship after seven to eight years of stay in the city where she got married.
 
 Among the applicants were also those who fulfilled the requirement and they are awaiting Indian citizenship.
 
 According to sources, there are as many as 225 such women who are on long term visas in Hyderabad from Pakistan. After they come on a visit and get married, they seek extension of visa. This is invariably given as proof of marriage is submitted to the authorities.
 
 The special branch of the Hyderabad City Police verifies all the documents and does the background checks. It is based on this that the visa extension is granted. The long term visa is sought and extended for at least seven years. After this period, and a lapse of one year, the woman can apply for Indian citizenship.
 
