It’s been pouring heavily in Kolkata and among the first casualties of monsoon is a vital kitchen ingredient — tomatoes. With prices hovering around Rs 100/kg since about a fortnight now, the humble   — which is scientifically a fruit but commonly known as a vegetable owing to its rampant use in cooking savoury rather than sweet meals — is giving a fright to the common man. While vendors at some of the local markets claim that the price hike is due to interrupted supply because of the rains, those in the food business are among the worst hit. With tomato prices going through the roof, many are resorting to substitutes like canned puree and ketchup, leading to their dwindling stocks at various departmental stores.

 
 
 Gurleen Singh, owner of  , said they are bearing a loss of 3-4% at the moment. “We are hoping that the situation will get better in the coming weeks. If the crisis persists, we will be forced to increase the price of our dishes by `5-`10 on an average,” he said, explaining that gravy items, especially makhnis, are cooked with fresh tomatoes. However, Rahul Arora, proprietor of  , said their business remains unaffected as they don’t use fresh tomatoes and cook with tomato puree instead. 
 “We get our stock of canned tomato puree and since the price of that has not increased, we are not feeling the pinch,” he told us. Chef Rangan Niyogi seconded Rahul as he said tomato puree is indeed a preferred ingredient in Indian kitchens. “Readymade tomato puree is a great help in times of crisis. It can be used for churning out a variety of dishes. Generally, we use fresh tomatoes in numerous Indian dishes, like chicken butter masala, dal makhni, methi saag, aloo dum etc. But, currently I am using tinned tomato puree in place of fresh tomatoes and Kashmiri mirch in place of red chilli powder to make them taste close to tomato. However, in case of tomato chutney, it’s not possible to substitute fresh tomatoes. For making tomato or minestrone soup, I am using carrot and tomato puree in place of fresh tomato. While carrot lends the vegetable flavour, tomato puree helps in getting the right taste and colour of the soup,” he said.
 
 
 According to local vendors, tomato prices shooting up during this season is a common occurrence as rains spoil the stock. Tomatoes that have a shelf life of 3-4 days are hard to stock up at a time not many farmers have access to cold storage. Chef  , however, feels the crisis is “created”. “Monsoon comes every year and it’s not believable that the entire stock got ruined due to exceptional rains. Yet, there’s a dearth in supply. So, if I ask vendors to deliver 5 kilos, they are giving only 2 kilos. This has been happening for the past two weeks,” he said. The chef added that he doesn’t believe in passing the burden on to the consumers. “Everyone in the restaurant business keeps a buffer. For example, if the making cost of a dish is `10, it’s sold at `30. For the loss of a rupee or so, it’s not feasible to hike the price of a dish. There was a time when potato prices were hiked to an extent that some biryani makers dropped the aloo from the dish. That was juvenile, as it’s not fair to victimise consumers all the time. I will hike the prices only when I can’t bear the burden anymore,” he reasoned.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Though tomato prices started coming down on Wednesday and were available at `80 a kilo at some places, online grocery platforms such as Big Basket and Grofers continued to sell the kitchen must at over `100 a kilo. It was `109 a kilo at Big Basket and `110 a kilo at Grofers on Thursday. Cherry tomatoes and the organic variety came at `280 and `172.50 a kilo respectively.
 
