NEW DELHI: Pakistan, which faces elections in a year, has plunged into yet another political crisis, giving the all-powerful army the upper hand. That’s having an impact on Islamabad’s policy towards neighbours India and Afghanistan. It is no secret that the   shapes the country’s policy toward Delhi and Kabul and further deterioration in Indo-Pak ties cannot be ruled out under the institution gaining strength amid a weakening political class. Delhi though has decided to devote less diplomatic capital to Islamabad and focus instead on Beijing – the guarantor of Pakistan’s security. Sharif’s facing the threat of corruption investigations following the publication of the   Papers.
 
  What would have pleased India is the US House of Representatives on Friday voting for three legislative amendments to impose tougher conditions on the reimbursement of defence funding to Pakistan, making it conditional on Islamabad showing satisfactory progress in the fight against terrorism. The conditions are related to Pakistan’s support to terrorists and terror outfits, about which several top US officials and lawmakers have repeatedly expressed concern in the past.All the three legislative amendments to the $651-billion National Defence Authorisation Act (NDAA)+2018 were adopted by voice vote.
  
  What is needed now is a tougher approach by the US and other members of the international community to walk the talk in dealing with the   army, which has been instrumental in abetting and sponsoring anti-India and anti-Afghan terror groups for decades. Kashmir remains an unfinished task since 1947 and the Pakistan army still seeks revenge for the defeat it suffered in 1971. The proxy war that was launched in the early 1990s continues without a break notwithstanding the setback suffered by Pakistan in 1999. Embattled Prime Minister   ’s efforts to improve ties with the   government suffered a setback in January 2016. Further weakening of his position could mean tougher anti-India posturing by the army with fears of increased tension along the Line of Control and terror plots.
  
  
 
  
  The Pakistan army will have a free hand amid political instability and confusion, according to analysts.
  
  Jihadi forces could get further emboldened and China prefers to deal with stable situations with increasing instability in the backdrop of the mega China–Pakistan Economic Corridor ( ) project. According to one expert, tensions are being made to increase to give the Pakistan army an edge.
  
  But Sharif is a survivor and not known for sticking to the high moral ground as throughout his political career there have been conflicts of interest on several occasions but his businesses have continued to flourish.
  
  There is little sign that he has lost support in Punjab province despite Panamagate. What is clear is that Pakistan has never been as polarised and divided except for the 24 years when East Pakistan existed.
  
  The anger in both Sharif ’s Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz) and Imran Khan’s Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf parties add up to a volatile mix that can blow up when the Supreme Court announces its verdict on the Panama matter.
  
  Already, Sharif ’s PML-N has rejected the findings of the joint investigation team (JIT). Pakistan’s political class, largely feudal and corrupt, nurses a grudge that they are harassed while generals and judges go scot free.
  
  For India, strengthening of the Pakistani political class remains a pipedream despite almost a decade of civilian rule. Every civilian government in Pakistan has been undermined by its own domestic performance and the army’s overarching presence in governance. The lack of viable interlocutors within Pakistan has often limited India’s options in the neighbouring country and therefore it is in Delhi interest to have limited expectations given the ambitions of the Pakistani army. 
