KOLHAPUR: Kagal police on Saturday night arrested a quack for his alleged involvement in running a sex determination centre in  .

 Last week, the police had raided the centre and arrested one person in the case. The arrested has been identified as Satappa alias Pintu Rode, a resident of Pirachiwadi. The police arrested him from Sonali village in the   after receiving a tip-off on the same.
 
 “We received information that Rode will be in Sonali village on Saturday. Following this, we set up a trap and arrested him on Saturday night,” a Kagal-based police officer, said.
 
 He added that this is the first arrest in this case. “We had identified over 25 persons working as agents for Rode during investigation,” he said.
 
 The police have also recorded statements of more than 90 persons, who had either performed the sex determination test or were on the waiting list. The police have already registered a case against Rode’s parents, his wife and his assistant for helping him in his work. However, they are yet to formally arrest any of them. “We will arrest all of them once we interrogate Rode and gather evidence against all these suspects,” he said.
 
 Preliminary investigation suggested that Rode does not possess any qualification to detect the sex of the foetus nor did he have any prior training on using the sex determination equipment.
 
 On February 2, the Kolhapur district health administration and the police had busted an illegal centre for sex determination at Pirachiwadi village in Kagal taluka and had arrested the female assistant in the case. The main accused Rode managed to evade police clutches.
 
 According to police, the accused was running the illegal sex determination testing centre at Pirachiwadi and charged anything between Rs 10,000 and Rs 20,000. The district health department was closely observed the centre’s activities for one month before conducting the raid. “We confirmed the information by sending a decoy customer and conducted the raid. But, the main accused managed to escape our clutches,” L S Patil, a civil surgeon, said.
 
