When my husband and I were planning to bring 37-day old   (Noddy) home, everyone in the family discouraged us. They tried every way to dissuade us but nothing worked and soon Noddy was home. He was the sunshine in our dull days and we just couldn’t understand why someone would not want to keep a pet. Then one day my father-in-law started to tell us stories of his   dog who was ferociously loyal and pampered. But then someone fed him poison and he died. “When a pet leaves, it is the most intense pain. That day I decided never to keep a pet again,” he concluded. While he concluded, those words kept nagging me for days. It is strange how I could never feel excited on Noddy’s birthdays. It was also a reminder of one year less…

 Our 9-year-old Noddy recently found company, when a new couple moved in our neighborhood with their 6-year-old Labrador, Goofy. Just like Noddy, Goofy had the most angelic smile and eyes. Over time Noddy had become too restricted with his ways of showing love. He had stopped jumping and licking but would prefer sleeping with his head on our feet or rub his face on our legs. But Goofy reminded me of the young and playful Noddy who loved to put his front feet on our thighs to show love.
 
 My 5-year-old daughter, who is extremely fond of Noddy also started to fall in love with Goofy. She would call Noddy the most handsome dog and Goofy the cutest. Every time I would leave to drop my daughter at her school bus stop, Goofy would be sitting in the balcony, aimlessly looking at things around him. But he never missed acknowledging my daughter’s call. Whenever we met him while he was on his daily walk, he would excitedly jump at us. We thoroughly enjoyed all his attention.
 
 One morning, when my domestic help told me that Goofy died early morning. Incidentally, that was the time I was leaving to drop my daughter. He was not in the balcony. The news hit me hard. I met his mommy downstairs, her eyes swollen red. She saw me and started to cry. Without realizing that my little one was right next to me, she started telling me about the horrendous night, “He vomited blood. We rushed him to the doctor, she gave him some injections but he was still restless. We all slept at 3.30 in the night and when we woke up in the morning, he was gone.” She broke down. I hugged her with tears in my eyes. “He took a part of me with him,” she said softly. Then she noticed that it was my daughter’s school time and we bid her goodbye. But by then my daughter was visibly restless. She tossed me one question after another, “Mumma, Goofy died? Why was the aunty crying? Was he unwell? Will he never come back? Will I never see him in his balcony again? Will he never play with me?” I cut her short when I saw the bus approaching and told her, “He is with the God, safe and healthy. We won’t see him but we don’t have to worry about him. He is happy.”
 
 That evening when I came back from work, I hugged Noddy tight. I had stopped doing that for quite some time but more than him, I needed the reassurance that he won’t leave me. And just as if he knew the pain, he did something he’d stopped doing – he jumped with his paws on my thigh. It was the same old ‘Noddy jump’, which Goofy had recently brought back into our lives. I couldn’t stop my tears from rolling down my cheeks. I went out in the balcony to see the spot where Goofy loved to sit. He was not there but his bowls and coats were lying there, thoroughly cleaned and dried. I closed my eyes and imagined him sitting there. I saw his playful face look straight into my eyes… one last time.
 
 -By Kalpana Sharma
 
