PATNA: At least 15,000 devotees from different parts of the country as well as abroad attended the eight-day Panchkalyanak Pranpratishtha Mahotsav that concluded at the   in city’s Rajendra Nagar locality on Tuesday. 

 Bramhachari Dheeraj Bhaiya chanted over five lakh hymns as part of the ‘pranpratishtha’ rituals during the religious function which kicked off with a ‘ghatyatra’ on January 17. The ‘ghatyatra’, taken out from the newly built Parshwanath Digambar Jain Temple near   to Shakha Maidan amid bhajan and kirtan, was followed by Dhwajarohan, Garbhkalyanak, Tapkalyanak, Gyankalyanak, Moksh Kalyanak, Abhishek and finally Vishwashanti Mahayagya.
 
 “The mahayagya was conducted by Jain saint Acharya Sheetalsagar Ji Maharaj on Tuesday. Over 1,000 devotees took part in the ‘aarti’ at the temple in the evening,” Mahotsav convener M P Jain said, adding the devotees attending the Mahotsav came from Maharashtra, West Bengal, Assam, Gujarat, Delhi, Jharkhand and different parts of Bihar.
 
 Kavita Jain of Delhi hailed the arrangements at the Mahotsav. “My sister Rachna Jain, who is a realtor in Pittsburgh, came all the way from the US to attend the function,” the devotee in her mid-30s told TOI.
 
 Differently-abled Gautam Kumar Jain had come with his father Pradeep Kumar Jain from Assam “My son in his 20s moves on a wheelchair. But he insisted to be part of this celebration,” Pradeep said, adding he has attended at least 15 pranpratishtha functions so far while this was his son’s second such function.
 
  president Shanti Lal Jain said they had engaged 100-odd cooks of Kolkata to prepare food for the devotees. “We had also formed an 11-woman Bhojan Satarkta Samiti, which ensured that not even a morsel of food was wasted,” said Gita Jain who along with Kanta Jain, Sarla Jain and Megha Jain was among the 80-odd women who played an active role in organising the Mahotsav.
 
 According to Mukesh Kumar Jain, one of the organisers, Acharya Sheetalsagar Ji Maharaj, in response to requests from local devotees, has extended his stay in   by ten days. The Acharya will now move to Vaishali on February 3, he said.
 
