Tuticorin: Tension prevailed in Tuticorin on Wednesday after a water tanker driver died under mysterious circumstance at the Sipcot police station. The incident took place after he was detained by the police for reportedly taking more water than the permissible quantity and not carrying valid documents.

 The death of the 27-year-old triggered tension as his relatives, fellow drivers and workers and activists staged a protest at the government hospital and refused to receive his body. They relented only after a judicial probe was ordered into the incident and the magistrate began investigations at the hospital.
 
 Police said the victim, B Ruben Dhas hailed from Naalumukku in Maanjolai Estate in Tirunelveli district. It is learnt that he was taking water in the tanker from Vallanadu to a private factory at the Sipcot industrial complex around 5am on Wednesday.
 
 Inquiry revealed that he was crossing Madaththur intersection when a flying squad led by tahsildar Ramachandran intercepted the vehicle. While checking, the squad found the documents invalid and that the tanker also carried water more than the permissible quantity.
 
 Dhas was detained and handed over to the Sipcot police, attached to the Tuticorin district police. Police sources told reporters that the young driver complained of chest pain around 6am. They rushed him to the Tuticorin government hospital where he was declared dead on arrival.
 
 Police said they informed the company where the victim was working. Agitated colleagues and representatives of a few caste-based outfits thronged the hospital and staged a protest. Holding police torture as reason behind the death, his relatived refused to collect the body.
 
 In addition to seeking stringent action against the police personnel and officials and other department officials responsible for his brief detention, the protesters also demanded proper compensation for the family of Ruben Dhas. Efforts taken by the police to pacify them also went in vain as they demanded a judicial probe into the incident.
 
 They withdrew the protest only after judicial magistrate Rose Kala came to the hospital in the afternoon and began a probe. Later, the family cooperated with the police for the hospital formalities and received his body in the evening.
 
 
