HYDERABAD: Experts are crying foul over the Telangana government's move to circumvent the law and go ahead with  , a multi-crore  . 

 Enquiries by TOI revealed that as per the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980, and the norms of the Union environment ministry, the state government will need to take clearances from the Union environment ministry if the land parcel of forest to be diverted is more than 5 hectares. If the land required is less than 5 hectares, the state government can go ahead with the project on its own. Mission Bhagiratha is spread over nearly 474 hectares and thus central clearances are mandatory. However, in order to circum vent the Centre, the TRS regime is giving clearan ces for parcels of land that are less than 5 hectares at one go.
 
 On Monday, Telangana environment and forest department special chief secretary   issued five GOs giving in principle approval for 4.035 hectares, 4.851hectares, 4.378 hectares, 1.711 hectares and 4.983 hectares of forest land respectively at various places. “Mission Bhagirath is a single integrated project.
 
 As such, the total area under forests which will be covered by the project should be considered as the basis for seeking statutory forest environment clearances.If the total area exceeds the limit prescribed by the Union ministry of environment, the proposal will require that ministry's approval. To break down the forest area into fragments so as to bring each one of them within the delegated powers of the state appraisal authority will amount to misinterpreting the regulations and will run counter to the letter and the spirit of the relevant Forest laws and the regulations made there under,“ former union power secretary and environment and forest secretary of undivided   told TOI.
 
 . By breaking down the approvals for parcels of land less than 5 hectares, the Telangana environment and forest department has till date acquired a little over 20 hectares of land across the state to facilitate laying of drinking water pipelines as part the multicrore Mission Bhagiratha project. When contacted, Mission Bhagiratha, consultant (forest issues) Krishna   said there was no foul play whatsoever involving the project. It is a drinking water project and does not need environmental impact study . We need land to lay six inch pipeline. Also, all these forest land clearances at the state level are being given only after a thorough discussion and consultation with higher officials in the Union environment ministry ,“ he said. Substantiating his claim, Murthy said all the five clearances given on Monday were for less than 5 hectares of land parcel each because civilian areas were falling in between and stretch of forest area required at each place was genuinely less than 5 hectares.
 
 “The officials of Union environment ministry keep a watch even after the approvals at the state level. In fact, of the total 47 approvals of forest land parcels given so far at the state level, 27 parcels needed approval of the Union ministry because either the land required was more than 5 hectares or there were more than 50 trees per hectare. In both the cases, the central ministry's approval was required and it gave it,“ he said and added the permissions being given at the state level are in case of reserve forest areas and not wildlife areas which needs the union ministry's clearance.
 
 The in-principle approval at the sate government level was given with riders such as that the maximum number of trees to be felled should not be more than 50 per hectare and that the user agency will plant and maintain two times the number of tress felled on the diverted land to maintain the green cover at the project cost. Also planting site for the purpose will be identified by the forest department (preferably within or in the surrounding area of the project).
 
 Only indigenous forest tree species shall be used for such plantations. Trees, if planted on the diverted area, will not be felled without the permission of the forest department. Trees, planted in surrounding area, will belong to the forest department. And most importantly , the legal status of the forest land wlll remain unchanged.
 
