KOLKATA: The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) clause mandating no overground construction within 100m of Currency Building has forced   (KMRC) officials to take another look at the engineering design for the proposed Mahakaran Station. 

 The station site was scheduled to be cordoned off by July 5. On Monday, KMRC representatives met transport department officials to find a solution. But the issue remained unresolved, necessitating another round of joint inspection before cordoning off the station site for the next three years. 
 
 “Adherence to the ASI clause of no overground construction within 100m of Currency Building, which used to be the country’s   in British India, required changes in the design of the station,” said a railway official. The overground structure of the station now has to be pushed back 15m, which will be a technical challenge in the busy Dalhousie area. The design change might require more land than what the project had demanded earlier and a multi-agency inspection must be carried out to fix the size of the area. 
 
 Cordoning off of the site will also require change in traffic movement. Minibuses of 21 routes, which use the site as a terminus, will have to use their point of origin as the terminus. They will arrive at Dalhousie, pick up passengers and move on. “We need a notice of cordoning off the site at least two days ahead of the actual work. We need to notify people before making such changes,” said a state government officer.
 
 Construction of tram loops is another issue that the authorities must solve. As many as nine routes will be suspended for three years during the station construction. KMRC will compensate   with Rs 11 crore for suspending these routes and pay an additional Rs 9.4 crore to divert south- and east-bound trams from Esplanade. 
 
 Building a station usually takes more than three years. In case of  , the construction of the underground tunnel will be over long before the station is ready. Even if it is done on a war footing, the open-and-cover system of the station — which is far deeper than that of the north-south Metro — cannot be completed in less than two-and-a-half years.
 
 
