GUWAHATI: State forest minister   said she will speak to the transport department about providing sufficient personnel to assist   in monitoring speed violations on NH-37. Animals escaping the park during flood season take this route and run the risk of being hit by speeding vehicles. 

 "I am well aware of the problem currently being faced by forest officials when the Kaziranga is under water and animals are moving out of the park in search of highlands. I will definitely take up with the transport department the need to provide adequate staff so that forest officials are relieved from monitoring vehicles and can focus on the movement of animals," Brahma said here on Saturday. Nearly 40% of the 430-sq km area of Kaziranga are still under water. In the last three days, four hog deer have been knocked down by speeding vehicles.
 
 At present, the forest staff is hard-pressed. Thirty forest personnel are currently deployed at various checkpoints to issue time-cards to vehicles passing along the 45-km stretch of the highway from Kohora to Amguri. They also impose fines for violation of speed limit. In addition, forest personnel have to keep a close tab on animals once they come out of the park, cross the highway and become vulnerable to poachers. During floods, as the animals look for elevated grounds and make their way to fringe villages, instances of human-animal conflict also rise, which the forest personnel have to attend to. 
 
 "Had there been sufficient staff from the transport department, forest officials would have been relieved from the task of monitoring vehicle speed and could concentrate more on the safety of animals," a forest official said. 
 
 Transport commissioner and secretary,  , on the other hand, said adequate staff from the transport department has been dispatched to check the speed of vehicles passing along Kaziranga. "It is not correct to say that sufficient staff from the transport department has not been provided to check vehicle speed along Kaziranga during floods. We have also provided three interceptors to monitor vehicle speed,"   said. 
 
 
