BENGALURU: East Bengaluru’s   is a glaring example of commercial ventures destroying the calm of a residential locality.

 Indiranagar is among the   of the city worst affected by unchecked growth of small businesses and offices. Much to the annoyance of its residents, the locality has off late become  .
 
 The problem goes beyond the obvious rise in noise level and parking crunch in the area. According to Praveen S, a member of Indiranagar 2nd Stage RWA, zoning violation is a major issue, so worrying that residents had hit the streets and held a candle light vigil against it.
 
 “The revised master plan 2015 restricts commercial activity in the old and established residential areas of the city, which means no trade licences for these areas. Although commercial activity is allowed on main roads including 100ft Road and 80ft Road, improper implementation of bylaws will have smaller by-lanes bearing the brunt of commercialization,” Praveen said. He started filing   pleas a year ago to fight the problem, and has so far filed 500 of them against the   and BDA.
 
 Praveen pointed out that offices renting space don’t need trade license to operate but are guilty of zoning violations. “Residential lanes should be purely residential except the ancillary, permitted establishments such as grocery stores among others,” he added.
 
 While new commercial set ups undoubtedly drive business, they also bring with them a host of problems. Sneha Nandihal, president of BM Kaval Indiranagar 1st Stage RWA, said that the locality’s 50-year-old sewer lines are ill-equipped to deal with shops and offices crowding its main roads.
 
 “Several micro-breweries coming up in the area dispose a huge amount of waste. Has the pollution control board bothered to check whether they have sewage treatment plants? There are about 60 pubs on the 100ft Road, 80ft Road and 12th Main Road,” said Sneha, who was born in Indiranagar.
 
 The multitude of restaurants, pubs and bars has also led to rising noise level in the area. With an enhanced deadline of 1am, they get busier as the week progresses, resulting in an unending cacophony for residents, many of them elderly.
 
 Vinoo Thimmaya lives in a house flanked by two popular watering holes on the 100 feet Road. “Indiranagar used to be a quiet, peaceful locality, but in the last few years, my 90-year-old mother has not had a proper sleep with rise in noise levels in the area. Filing cases and having officials come and examine the place has had no result. I have recorded the outside sound in my house, with windows shut, and it’s far beyond the permissible limit,” he said.
 
 Vijay Dravid, who lives on 12th Main Road since 1974, said the Indiranagar of the earlier days is in stark contrast to what it is today. “I remember playing cricket with my brother on the roads. Of course, that’s not possible now. People speak only of pubs, but small IT offices also lead to traffic snarls here. Noise from the several pubs here no doubt has made the place unlivable. I had to get my windows fitted with double and triple glazed glass to keep the noise away,” he said.
 
