PUNE: DSK School was recently presented the   (ISA) by the British Council in Mumbai recently.   and principal Sundari Jaishankar received the award on behalf of the school.

 The hard work and effort that the school’s students, right from kindergarten to std IX, poured into seven different projects, bore fruit in the form of the award.
 
 The International School Award is a badge of honour for schools which excel in international education, such as setting up links with partner schools overseas. This helps in fostering an international dimension in the curriculum so that young people gain the cultural understanding and skills in order to live and work as global citizens.
 
 Tabla Nawaz of Pune
 
 Rohan Bhadsawale, a std X student of SPM English School — Secondary, participated in the ‘Sangeet Milan’ national-level tabla competition in Lucknow recently. He took part in the middle category (14-22 years), and bagged fourth place. For his effort, he was bestowed with the prestigious ‘Tabla Nawaz of Pune’ title. Rohan received the prize from Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav.
 
 KHS in Guinness book
 
 Niranjan Badhe, a std X student of Dr Kalmadi Shamarao High School, Ganeshnagar, featured in the Guinness book of world records for being part of the longest underwater human chain. This record was set in Koh Tao, Thailand, recently. It consisted of 182 divers from Pune, who formed a 140m-long chain. The feat was achieved under the banner of   (India).
 
 Excellence Award 
 
 Mithila Joshi, Math facilitator at KHS Ganeshnagar, received the Gloria de Souza excellence award for 2016 in the ‘best educator’ category. Joshi received the award from banker Amruta Fadnavis, who is also the wife of chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, at the ‘Soul in Education: Global Creative Summit’ in Mumbai recently. The award was instituted by Parisar Asha, centre for educational research and training, in the memory of renowned educator Gloria de Souza.
 
 MSB wins elocution
 
 Alefiya Shakir a std VI student from MSB Educational Institute, recently won the first prize in the city-level interschool elocution championship organized by the All for Kids oragnisation. Over 25 students participated in the event, which was held under the theme of friendship. Masool Shaikh Huzefa Bhai Dhansura and vice-principal Zeenat Shaikh congratulated her. Vedant Kulkarni from Wisdom World School was the first runner up, while Nupur Joshi from GG International came third. 
 
