PATNA: Bihar tourism department joint secretary   said Rs50 crore was earmarked for the development of infrastructure on Gandhi circuit in the state under PM Narendra Modi’s special package for Bihar announced before the 2015 assembly elections. “Though we have no information yet on any additional funds to Bihar for the   year celebrations, as mentioned in the Union Budget tabled on Wednesday, but we are awaiting Rs50 crore earmarked under the PM Modi’s special package announced before the last assembly elections,” Singh said.

 While the Nitish Kumar government has been preparing for Champaran centenary celebrations for over a year, the Centre would also hold yearlong celebrations to commemorate the Champaran Satyagraha in 2017-18.
 
 Singh said a couple of proposals have already been sent to the Union ministry of tourism for funds under the PM’s special package. “Proposals have been sent to the Centre for infrastructure development at prominent places on Gandhi circuit in Bihar, including Bhitiharwa Gandhi Ashram in West Champaran and   village in East Champaran. We are expecting the funds to be released in the upcoming fiscal,” said Singh.
 
 The preparations for   are being directly monitored by chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh, while CM Nitish Kumar also had a couple of review meetings. The yearlong celebrations would commence with an international seminar on the life of Bapu at the under construction International Convention Centre (ICC) on April 18. Besides, there would be large scale infrastructure development at Bettiah and Motihari, from where Bapu started the Satyagraha movement.
 
 As per the preliminary plans of the state government, tourism department would organise laser shows based on the life of Bapu and the Champaran movement, in Patna and Champaran. Education department would also organise seminars and talks in which scholars and experts of Gandhian philosophy would participate. Similarly, art, culture and youth affairs department would oraganise cultural and musical shows to spread awareness about Bapu.
 
 
