GHAZIABAD/KANPUR: Why isn’t the real culprit behind bars yet? This is the question family members of the four who died in the January 28 accident at  , when an Audi collided head on with an autorickshaw, are asking. 

 “I demand the suspension of all police personnel in Indirapuram responsible for shielding the culprit,” says Narendra Singh, whose two nephews, Vishal (25) and Yajuvendra (40), died that night. 
 
 Their anger isn’t difficult to understand. The investigation, three weeks on, has gone nowhere. In the interim, an outrageous attempt was made to subvert the process of law as an imposter surrendered, claiming to be the Audi’s driver, and walked out on bail. 
 
 The imposter was subsequently identified by people in Bareilly, where he lives, as  . But Qadri surrendered as Ishak Ahmad, and submitted a copy of Ahmad’s driving licence. 
 
 The real Ishak Ahmad, a truck driver, has now told police that his identity was stolen. Rawat, meanwhile, insisted his driver’s name was Ishak Ahmad but the photo of his driver that he shared with TOIwas of Qadri. To add to the mystery, the car’s owner, Dr Manish Rawat, surfaced on February 5 to proclaim his innocence.He was in the car during the accident, he said, but not driving, and had run away fearing for his life because a “crowd had gathered”. 
 
 This led to more questions: the accident happened after midnight, when there was little traffic. Police also confirmed there were no eyewitnesses. Why, then, has all this not galvanised the criminal justice system into action? Instead of getting to the bottom of the mystery, police have been inert through the twists and turns, stolidly claiming the investigation will take its course. 
 
 Qadri has fled Bareilly’s Peer Bohra village, where he lived, after a series of reports in TOIestablished he was the impostor. And Ishak Ahmad is yet to come and meet police, where the accident case is registered. This is what has angered the four bereaved families, who have now decided to step in. Rajesh Chandel, brother-in-law of Vishal and Yajuvendra, told TOI that they were consulting lawyers on a possible course of action, including filing a complaint against Rawat. 
 
 The duo, from Kanpur, was visiting their family friend   Yadav (38), a software engineer with HCL. They were returning to Rinky’s house in an auto from a relative’s place in Indirapuram when the accident happened. All three died on the spot, as did the 25-year-old auto driver, Sanjiv. Sanjiv’s wife Madhu and three-yearold daughter have since gone back to   from Khoda Colony in  , where they lived. Madhu was seven months pregnant when Sanjiv died. Rinky’s father Manna Lal, who has retired from Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd, said, “The loss of my daughter is irreparable. But just imagine the agony of Sanjiv’s daughter and wife. I want to help them.” 
 
 Narendra Singh said he would approach the chief judicial magistrate in Ghaziabad with an appeal to initiate legal action against the two persons who had given sureties for the man who surrendered. “The investigation conducted by police so far has failed to inspire any confidence and there is serious concern if the investigation will be done in a fair and honest manner. So, we are in talks with lawyers for suggestions as to what legal course we could take,” said Chandel. “You have an impostor, Qadri, securing bail on false documents right under the nose of police. Then, when his real identity is revealed, he goes missing. If this is not laxity, what is?” he added. Asked about his driver, Rawat said he did not have his phone number. “I used to call another driver who conveyed my message to him,” was the doctor’s cryptic response to a question on the confusion over the identities of Ahmad and Qadri.
 
