CHANDIGARH: As chief of internal security and counter intelligence in 2008, Brig Raj Kumar was the first person to question  , the lone terrorist who was caught in the 26/11 Mumbai attacks. Now, with folded hands and the plea to try a new political party that promises to crack down on corruption, Kumar is campaigning for Aam Aadmi Party in Balachaur as the party’s candidate for the Punjab assembly elections.

 “I questioned him for 7-8 hours. He was a youngster, a small-time, petty thief from a village near Lahore who wanted to make it big. He told me how he and his friend went to buy weapons and were inducted into a militant organisation. From the time we met him, he kept asking to be killed for what he had done. An interesting fact that he flagged off for us was how most metal detectors in the country are useless. When I asked him whether he was scared carrying a gun into the station, he said that they were in fact shown videos of people carrying metal through these metal detectors and hence they were not worried,” said Kumar, as his entourage zipped from one village to the other during Thursday’s pouring rain.
 
 Kumar, who retired from the Army in January 2015, is contesting on the anti-corruption plank. In his speeches across villages, he is invoking the Anna Hazare-led anti-corruption movement and how   is the only person who has been able to stand up to “dynastic and tyrannical politics”. However, this will not be an easy fight for him.
 
 Balachaur, with an electorate of about 1.47 lakh spread over 199 villages and three towns, is sharply divided over its choice of political party. The one unified sentiment that seems to have emerged is that there will be a “change” this time. Akali Dal’s Chowdhary Nand Lal is a four time MLA from the area. He, like his counterparts in AAP and Congress, is a Gujar.
 
 In Majra Jatta, Mahinder Singh says that AAP and Congress are almost neck to neck, giving the Congress a slight edge over the ‘jhaadu’ party. “Captain (Amarinder Singh) is better than (Parkash Singh) Badal. Kejriwal is new. People in the village will vote for change this time. The main issues for our village are drugs and development. Nothing has been done here for years. Akalis will also lose out due to demonetization,” he said.
 
 While Kumar was addressing a dedicated group of about 30 during Thursday’s downpour at Mehatpur Oladni, Dimple Kumar, the owner of a Western Union money transfer branch, talks about how he was forced to open his office despite it being a public holiday and the incessant rain. “Demonetisation has cut into business tremendously. Mine is down by 50% so I thought I would open even today in case I got some customers. This time not even   can bail out the Akalis since the sentiment against BJP is also very strong. We do not want freebies but jobs and independence which no political party is offering. I sense that Congress will get about 80% of the non-Akali votes here,” he said.
 
 A few meters down the road from his shop, Kamaljeet Singh and Gurdeep Singh, mulled over the matter over a steaming cup of tea. “Akali is not coming back this time, that is certain. Some of their vote will go to Congress but AAP is the clear winner from here,” said Gurdeep.
 
