NEW DELHI: The BCCI's relentless pursuit to garner a larger share from International Cricket Council's (ICC) revenues gained momentum when  , the chairman of the   overseeing BCCI's affairs, met the  's (BCB) chief   here on Wednesday. It is understood that   discussed the financial repercussions of continuing with the proposed revenue sharing patterns discussed in the last   meeting.

 The Bangladesh board was told how world cricket would be impacted if India's share from ICCs revenue is curtailed. Under the Big Three formula suggested by former BCCI and ICC boss  , BCCI could have earned as much as $570 million as its share from ICC's revunues, which would have gone down considerably in the new proposal put forth by   who replaced Srinivasan as ICC chief.
 
 The CoA is trying to find a middle ground on this. When TOI spoke to Rai, he said BCCI is committed to reaching a consensus rather than antagonizing the situation. "We have met most of the cricket boards and explained to them our thought process. Some of them are a part of the working group. In this, India is seen as a leader and right now we have to firm up a strategy. The Indian board won't be game for any revenue loss."
 
 Rai explained that the Bangladesh board respects BCCI's position in ICC. "Like other boards, BCB is also concerned and won't play ball with ICC on the latest formula," Rai said while indicating that the BCCI's resolution to protect its finances was the sole purpose of these meetings with board representatives of other countries.
 
 The CoA is not in favour of threatening other Test playing nations with refusal to honour the Future Tour Programme (FTP)."We have an alternative formula and I hope the other Test playing nations would understand our position. I think the 2014 formula (Big Three) was other extreme. But now, we have to make a presentation which would be acceptable to all," Rai added.
 
 Meanwhile, BCB chief Papon told media persons: "We don't want any member country to get hurt, especially India, as they have always supported us. If India becomes weak, we also become weak."
 
