Chandigarh:   is motivated to make its first state organ and tissue transplant organisation ( ) in either Karnal or Rohtak medical college. This will facilitate organ retrieval from brain-dead people, for which the state relies on the PGI in Chandigarh, so far.

 This Haryana health department initiative is the product of Thursday’s deliberations with TOI as a part of the newspaper’s   campaign in partnership with Mumbai’s Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital. It came up during the discussion that the PGI (Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Resarch) had the only ROTTO (Regional Organ and Tissue Transplant Organization) in north for organ harvesting. Haryana health minister   said: “We see the gap in the demand and supply of organs. We are working on creating awareness and will do whatever possible to overcome limitations.”
 
 Haryana principal secretary for health Amit Jha has asked his officials to draft a proposal on setting up SOTTO. “Just granting permissions for organ transplant in the state doesn’t absolve us of the responsibility of doing more,” Jha said. “We will work on having our own retrieval centres for the state.”
 
 Before officials from the National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (NOTTO) and ROTTO, the principal health secretary said there must be a meeting on the issue with ROTTO. “It seems this (initiative) will involve medical colleges mainly. We do not want to burden the Rohtak PGIMS with more programme. We can involve the medical college at Karnal, though.”
 
 ROTTO director Dr Vimal Bhandari claimed that since the input from NOTTO that it had trained doctors in Punjab and Haryana for organ retrieval and running SOTTOs, nothing had moved forward. “We have trained doctors and held many workshops but both Punjab and Haryana have not started SOTTOs or any organ-retrieval facility. The state governments should take initiative, as doctors cannot harvest organs until there are authorised centres for retrieval,” he said. 
 
 Doctors from the PGI said during the event that a nodal officer for the SOTTO in Haryana had been trained recently at the Rohtak PGIMS. “This was 10 days ago. But SOTTO has not been formed,” ROTTO nodal officer Dr Vipin Kaushal of the Chandigarh PGI said.
 
 Box: 
 
 Body donations since 2015
 
 Punjab | 31
 
 Haryana | 20
 
 Himachal Pradesh | 19
 
 Note | All donations at ROTTO, PGI
 
 
