HYDERABAD: Hyderabad of yore had carved a niche of its own in the spheres of culture, commerce, language and festivals. The city, when founded in 1591, stood as the hallmark of religious tolerance and a unique GangaJamuni tehzeeb. The tradition continued for centuries, with people of all communities celebrating festivals and local cultural events with a spirit of camaraderie. But sadly, modernity and the politics of hatred are threatening this fabric of unity. Id Milaps and   and   Milans are a thing of the past now.

 Archival data of the Qutub Shahi period reveals that people celebrated festivals in grand style with music and dance cutting across religious and regional lines.Urdu was just taking shape and was not quite popular.The royal firmans or orders were issued in both official Persian and common Telugu. At least a couple of Qu tub Shahi rulers and many nobles were well-versed in Telugu and even penned poetry. Some of the rulers, in fact, adopted the Kakatiya coins with Hindu religious images.
 
 The Hun (Pagoda) was the official gold coin and it derived its name from the old Telugu word `Hon' which meant gold. The Qutub Shahis preferred the Telugu Hun to the Moghul  , which was also in circulation. In fact, such was Hyderabad's prominence in the world of trade and commerce that the Qutub Shahi Hun had five times more va lue than the Moghul Rupee.At its peak, a Hun was equal to five-and-half Rupees. At the lowest exchange rate, it commanded a price of four Rupees, if travel records of foreigners like French historian Jean de Thevenot (who was in Hyderabad during the reign of Abdullah Qutub Shah VII) are any indication. Hyderabadi Hun was more precious than even the French currency of that era, Livre ­ a Hun equalled eight Livres.
 
 “The monetary system of   remained firmly based on gold. The standard coin was that used by the indigenous pre-Muslim kingdoms. The pagoda or Hun (53 grains) was stamped with the image of Vishnu. The Qutb Shahis issued... gold coins from their mints with the Hindu types unaltered. They also struck in large numbers copper coins of 25-30 grains of a Muslim type which bore their names and titles,“ Dr Abdul Majeed Siddiqui of   wrote in his `History of Golcunda' published in 1956.
 
 Referring to Ibrahim Qutub Shah IV, Majeed wrote that his poetry, which depicted his impressions about the life and culture of the Telugu society, shows his sympathy for local traditions. “The common people held their revelries both at Golcunda and Hyderabad.Almost all the ceremonial functions, Hindu or Muslim, were accompanied with music and dance,“ he pointed out. Ibrahim's name has been immortalized in Telugu literature, in which he enjoys legendary status and is referred to as Malkibharam.
 
