MUMBAI: In a setback for cops probing the murder of a businessman, found dead in his car in Santacruz last year, a sessions court last week granted bail to the victim's 26-year-old alleged paramour.

 Perusing the chargesheet filed against the accused, Purity Pascal, the court observed, “There is no direct evidence against the bail applicant. The case of the prosecution is based on circumstantial evidence and mainly relies upon the evidence of fingerprints in the vehicle in which the deceased was found sitting. There is no other material on record with reference to the fingerprints to connect the applicant with the commission of the offence.“
 
 The cops had earlier claimed Pascal, employed as a receptionist with a private hotel, killed the 43-year-old Tilakraj Rajput, after he forbade her from ending their five-year affair.
 
 Pascal is the second accused to be granted relief. Last year, the court granted bail to her alleged co-accused Sukhpal Singh, arrested for destruction of evidence. While granting ba il to Pascal, the court also considered her age and that there was no evidence to show she would pressure witnesses in the case or destroy evidence as claimed by the cops opposing her bail.
 
 On the intervening night of August 25-26, a beat marshal from Santacruz police station found the victim in his car on SV Road. He was taken to R N Cooper Hospital where doctors declared him dead. He had allegedly been strangulated with a dupatta.
 
 The victim's call records led the cops to Pascal. Police alleged the couple got into a fight as Rajput was pestering her to continue their relationship. They further claimed Rajput was drunk and the couple drove around several locations in the western suburbs. However, the verbal feud turned violent and they assaulted each other before Pascal used her dupatta to strangle the drunk man.
 
 Opposing the bail plea, the prosecution alleged the victim's mobile phone was not yet recovered, so there is a possibility of Pascal destroying it. She however submitted that no recovery of any incriminating material was made at her instance and she was only apprehended on suspicion of the alleged affair.
 
 Pascal was granted bail on a sum of Rs 50,000 with one or more surety of like amount. She was additionally directed to report to the police station concerned on the 14th of every month between 8.30am and 10.30am.
 
