SHAHJAHANPUR: BJP state unit president   on Friday said if BJP comes to power in UP, all mafia and   will be put behind bars within 45 days of forming the government.
 
  Addressing a public meeting in Nigohi block of Shahjahanpur on Friday, Maurya said, “Akhilesh Yadav has encroached on the office of   and in the similar manner, they will encroach upon your house, office and buildings in future, if SP comes into power. As mafias have become active in the state, BJP will put them behind the bars in 45 days of forming government in UP.
  
  “We will also restore power of police who are presently unable to take on the mafia. We didn’t field any Muslim candidate because there was no Muslim candidate in the party who could win a seat,” Maurya said.
  
  The BJP leader arrived in Shahjahanpur at around 2 pm in Tilhar constituency where a ground fully packed with supporters was waiting for him. He was here to garner support for two-time MLA Roshan Lal Verma. The latter is expected to face a tough electoral battle in view of the growing popularity of former Union minister   who is contesting from here on a Congress ticket.
  
  Maurya told the gathering, “The 2017 assembly poll in UP is an opportunity to uproot hooliganism and corruption from the state. All political parties are against Modiji because he is thinking about farmers, the feeble and the poor. While these parties have always tried to rule over them.
  
  “We didn’t award a ticket to any Muslim candidate because there was no strong Muslim candidates in our party but Mayawati had awarded tickets to Muslim candidate over Dalits and backward just to get Muslim votes, which is injustice to a deserving candidate,” said Maurya.
  
  Maurya also attacked CM Akhilesh Yadav and said, “How could Akhilesh say that he can eradicate corruption and goons from the state when he himself is a cheat who cheated his father Mulayam Singh and encroached on the SP office. Such person will always encroach on your house, shops and properties once given a chance.”
  
  Maurya promised jobs for all and said no interview will be conducted after clearing a written examination. He added that farmers’ loans will be waived and state will get 24-hour power supply once it forms government in UP.
