MANGALURU: The All-Terrain Vehicle (ATV), indigenously designed by budding mechanical engineers of St Joseph’s Engineering College ( ), Mangaluru, using classroom theories, won several prizes during its maiden participation at   competition at  .

 The ATV christened ‘Turtle 1.0’ by Team SJEC Racing, has outperformed entries from prestigious technical institutes such as IIT-Indore, IIT-BHU, BITS Pilani, NIT-K Surathkal, MIT-Manipal, Christ University and other reputed institutes. 
 
 “The success comes after a year of hard work. A major attraction of the ATV is that all components of the vehicle are indigenously designed in various automobile industries and are assembled. We have not chosen any locally available parts, rather applied our classroom knowledge and designed them on our own. As a result the weight of the vehicle is pared to 187 kgs while other ATVs weigh more than 200 kgs,” Dilish, student chairperson, told STOI.
 
 Though there were ideas and dedication to design the ATV, they lacked necessary funds to execute the plan. “We approached the college management and considering our plea, supported us with a funding of Rs 8 lakh. After classes, we used to work till midnight, sometimes even till 4am and workshop was kept open for us.”
 
 The work of the ATV commenced at the beginning of 2016. The team had five departments: design, power train, suspension, steering and braking that worked to develop the final product. Previously, ATV had secured the first place in the state and 18th place nationally at the Virtual Baja Competition held in July 2016. The team consists of 22 people from mechanical engineering stream.
 
 “This was our first time participation in SAEBAJA-2017 held at Indore and we had no clue about what’s going on around the venue. Because of which we could not participate in four competitions out of six. Despite that SJCE became the only team from Mangaluru region to successfully complete the event out of four other teams,” he said.
 
 SJEC became the first team to complete the most challenging endurance event from Karnataka. The team was also ranked third in Karnataka in terms of overall ranking. While in national level, SJCE secured 26th position in acceleration and endurance event and 47th in overall rank among 150 teams that participated,” said Roger Pereira, vice chairperson, Team SJEC Racing.
 
 The team received support from Fr Joseph J Lobo, Director, SJCE, Joseph Gonsalvis, principal, and Sudheer M, head of department, mechanical engineering.
 
 
