PUNE: Prominent candidates defecting to other parties ahead of the civic elections or revolting after not being given the party ticket fared well in the   results declared on Thursday.

 The ruling Nationalist   Party (NCP) in the outgoing civic body bore the brunt of most of these defections, which resulted in the victory of the defectors.
 
 There were odd exceptions like former corporator Raju Pawar, who left the   (MNS) to contest the elections on a   ticket. He lost in Ward No. 14 in Deccan Gymkhana-Model Colony.
 
 Similarly, former NCP corporator Shivlal Bhosale, who defected to the Shiv Sena, lost the elections in Ward No. 35 Sahakarnagar-Padmavati.
 
 The most notable winner among the last-minute defectors was NCP legislator Anil Bhosale’s wife and former corporator Reshma Bhosale. She was initially granted ticket by  , but had to contest as an Independent candidate following a Bombay high court directive.
 
 She won from Pune University-Wakdewadi Ward No. 7 which was meant for open category candidates.
 
 Bapu Karne, NCP’s former standing committee chairman, made it to the newly elected civic body on a BJP ticket after joining the saffron party barely a few days ahead of the polls. Karne won from Ward No. 3 Vimannagar-Somnathnagar.
 
 Another former NCP corporator Anil Tingre, who joined the BJP days before the elections, emerged victorious from Ward No. 1 Kalas Dhanori. Similarly, former NCP corporator Ravindra Dhangekar won as an Independent candidate from Ward No. 16 Kasbapeth – Somwarpeth.
 
 Former MNS corporator Priya Gadade, who switched over to the NCP, won from Ward No. 30 Janata Vasahat-Dattawadi. Former Congress corporator Sheetal Sawant, who joined the BJP, also emerged victorious.
 
 Rajesh Barate, who was a sitting corporator of the MNS before switching over to the BJP, won from Ward No. 31 Karvenagar.
 
 Prominent losers
 
 Nationalist Congress Party’s former leader of the House Shankar Kemse suffered a shock defeat to BJP’s Kiran Dagade-Patil in Ward No. 10 Bavdhan-Kothrud depot. Kemse was widely regarded as one of the strongest candidates of the NCP.
 
 Shiv Sena’s leader in the House Ashok Harnaval, NCP’s former leader of the House Subhash Jagtap and former Shiv Sena legislator Vinayak Nimhan’s son,  , and former Congress corporator Shiva Mantri were among the other prominent losers.
 
