Mumbai: The Bombay HC on Monday revoked its earlier order and held that a suit for Rs 41,000-crore damages filed by six minority shareholders of a few   companies cannot be treated as a representative suit by all non-promoter shareholders of the group. The order by Justice S C Gupte comes on a plea made by   which had sought revocation of permission granted last year by the HC to hear a suit by six minority shareholders as a representative suit for all non-promoter shareholders of the Tata group companies.

 There are over 25 lakh shareholders of Tata companies. The minority shareholders later sought a stay of the HC order to enable them to appeal against it. Tata Sons wished to oppose the plea for a stay and the court posted the matter for a hearing on Tuesday on the question of a stay. Till then, its order of revocation is unlikely to be uploaded.
 
 The company had argued that the shareholders who had moved the high court cannot claim to represent all other non-promoter shareholders. In other words, all non-promoter shareholders don’t necessarily support the plaintiffs. The HC order appears to have accepted arguments made by Tata Sons counsel   that all shareholders don’t have the “same interest”. 
 
 The half dozen non-promoter shareholders of seven Tata companies had filed a suit saying that because of the “illegal ouster of   as Tata Sons chairman”, the market price of the shares had crashed and thus they had suffered enormous loss. The damage sought is the loss caused in shares of seven Tata group companies, since closing on October 24 to December 6, the suit said. Justice S J Kathawalla had in December passed an order permitting the suit to be filed in a representative capacity, in other words as a class-action suit. Tata Sons counsels P Chidambaram, Ravi Kadam and Prateek Seksaria last month argued that it was “perverse to say that all non-promoter shareholders have the same grievance and are unhappy”.
 
 But Dinyar Madon, counsel for the few shareholders who had sought the damages in a representative capacity, argued that they were entitled to represent all similarly placed Tata company shareholders. He said 60 other shareholders supported the suit while none opposed it.If permission is revoked, it would mean all shareholders would have to file individual suits. Janak Dwarkadas, counsel for Mistry, had in his arguments reiterated Madon’s submission. In a rejoinder, Chidambaram had, however, stressed that there cannot be an accepted commonality of complaint.
 
 The plea before Justice Kathawalla was for permission under order 1 Rule 8 of the civil procedure code, a provision that says one or more persons may, with permission of the court, sue or defend on behalf of all persons so interested.
 
 
