KOCHI:   Isaac's assertion in his   that the state will make ' ' a citizen's right is a bold idea ahead of its time. This is something that's possibly ' ' of the central government.

 Consider the timeline of recent global developments in this sphere of human rights. In 2010,   (1MBPS connection) a basic right for citizens and Spain, France, Finland, Costa Rica, Estonia, and Greece followed suit.Sensing the global mood, over 70 nations voted to pass a UN Human Rights Council resolution that declared internet as a basic human right in June 2016. India and a handful of nations, including Russia, China and Saudi Arabia, voted against it. This was ironic in India's case because the government had been relentlessly driving home the message of Digital India and forcing citizens to adopt internetdriven e-cash ways to overcome the pains of demonetisation. Kerala's road map to make internet a right, starting sensibly with the less-advantaged sections and setting an 18-month timeline to create a state-wide fibre optic network is unlikely to be replicated by other states or the Centre anytime soon.That in itself is enough to go ahead. Why? Because Isaac's vision, which has been elaborated by IT secretary M Sivasankar, is consistent with what Kerala has been working towards for over a decade.
 
 In 2003, at the first UN-sponsored global summit on the information society in Geneva, secretary general Kofi Annan, for the first time, mooted the idea of the internet as the biggest social catalyst capable of empowering everyone on earth. Standing beside him in support was Tim Berners-Lee the father of the World Wide Web and Shashi Tharoor, then UN under secretary general. In the audience were the then IT minister PK Kunhalikutty and IT secretary Aruna Sundararajan. The Kerala team found itself fielding many questions from officials of other developing nations about the logistics of its e-literacy programme, Akshaya. Due to happenstance that programme captured huge attention in Geneva's cavernous Palexpo conference venue.This correspondent was at the event on the strength of his news story in an Indian paper that reported on India's first computerliterate village Chamravattom in Malappuram. The photo accompanying my story of a housewife (Shantakumari) taking her final computer literacy e-test with her child cradled in her arms was widely distributed albeit in a pre-social media way as a symbol.
 
 Kerala's reps at WSIS came back with renewed determination to hitch the state to the internet and the bipartisan success story of Akshaya is a visible result. The sustained thrust for internet training across a spectrum of institutions from IT@School is another example.
 
 Sometimes, intent is not enough, it takes a rare combination of like-minded people to take any programme to the next level. And Kerala might just have the perfect combo today to deliver on Isaac's promise. I heard him articulate his ideas about what internet could do for India, a decade ago in a crowded classroom at University College in the capital.
 
 M Sivasankar, who drove the Akshaya programme in its pilot years as head of state IT Mission, is today the state's IT secretary .Anvar Sadath, who was the Akshaya district coordinator of Malappuram in 2002-03, is in charge of IT@School programme.Shashi Tharoor's knowledge and experience will be an invaluable asset. There are others who have quietly toiled to `e-nable' Kerala for decades. They will willingly come out of retirement to make `internet, my right', not just another mantra but a living, breathing reality in Kerala.
 
 (The author is the editor of IndiaTechOnline.)
 
 
 
 Once Kerala decides to make the internet a central platform to reach its citizens and vice versa, the technology challenge is relatively trivial and more important, affordable. But for this, the state has to think laterally and not in terms of costly conventional networking solutions based on available data networks that the government has rendered almost unaffordable by its avaricious spectrum auctions.
 
 Worldwide, the spectral gaps vacated by obsolete analogue TV is being redeployed as an unpriced and unlicensed band to roll out free or near free internet.It is called TV white spaces. And here's the bonus: while the Wi-Fi we know is good only for tens of metres, white space Wi-Fi can travel tens of km. What's more, it is not affected by hillocks and other features while mobile technologies like 3G and 4G need a clear line of sight making it ideal for Kerala's hilly terrain.
 
 Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu has asked Microsoft to help him empower all the rural areas of his state with White Space-enabled internet.The pilot is already off the ground, linking four educational institutions in Srikakulam district.
 
 However after initial support, the Centre seems to be putting brakes on the white space Internet: seemingly some babus have advised it that there is money to be made by licencing and selling this `free' spectrum as well. This goes against worldwide practice. So Kerala has no time to lose as yet the spectrum is free for all takers.
 
