Wondering what   Shenaz Treasuryvala is upto these days? Well, the news is that the actor and travel vlogger is all set to turn an author with her   All He Left Me Was a Recipe. Shenaz's book is a compilation of memoiristic essays about the men who have influenced her life or been a part of her life -- from her first kiss to her first breakup, the book has it all.
 
  Talking about her debut book and what to expect out of it, Shenaz said in a statement, "The book is a candid and funny collection of pages out of my (very personal) diary, dedicated to the men in my life. The men whose roles have morphed between my best friends, lovers, teachers, fathers, sons and boyfriends. From when I was three to this very moment. The men I’ve laughed with, cried with, shared food with, had adventures with, travelled the world with, the men who made me laugh, the men who made me lunch, the men who took me to dinner, the men who later unfriended me on Facebook, those men... my men. The recipe reference in the book title (besides being a metaphor for a life lesson) is an actual recipe that each one left me with."
  
  "I've always had stories in me. When I was 10, I used to make grown-ups pay Rs 10, arrange chairs on the terrace of my building and tell them stories. They'd ask me, 'Where did you come up with that?' and I would say, 'But it really happened!' as they’d stare at me in disbelief. As I got older, I made the kids in my building act my stories out. I still do open mic sessions in New York where I now spend half my time." she added.
  
  Shenaz's All He Left Me Was a Recipe would be published by  . While the book has instances taken right out of the actor's life, it is said to be partly fictionalised too.
  
  "This is not your average celebrity memoir—in the best possible way. Shenaz’s debut book is a funny meditation on her hilarious and at times grief-stricken encounters with members of the opposite sex. Beginning with her first love at age three on a cargo ship, her stories range from funny to heartbreaking to profound. This will be a delightful read," said  , Associate Commissioning Editor, Penguin India.
  
  
