Laughter is the best medicine, they say. And in our troubled times, who can you always depend on for a dose of h e a l t h y, boisterous, rip-roaring laughter?
For decades, clowns in circuses have been serving that purpose, as they fumbled, tumbled and rumbled their way around the arena to hoots of laughter from chil dren and adults alike. But this win ter, as CT went looking for these diminutive performers, we realised that circuses were having a tough time finding the right people for the job.CLOWNS GOING EXTINCT?
 
 According to several   companies in Kolkata, in the past 10 years, at least 50% of   have left their jobs or opted for other professions. “The number of the clowns is falling rapidly. Till last year, we had seven men working as jokers, but this year we have only four left. In more than a decade, their total number across circuses has fallen by half. Most are doing other odd jobs, while a few have opened their own shops.Some are working as daily wage labour,“ said Sabidullah, managing member, Ajanta Circus.
 
 MONEY MATTERS
 
 Almost all circuses have accepted that this form of entertainment is dying, which is the reason why the number of jokers is also dipping.“Turnout, ticket prices, number of shows, profits -everything is going down. Earlier men who were very short would join the circus, thinking they wouldn't get a job anywhere else. They would earn nothing less than `20,000 a month, which has now dropped by `7,000-8,000. While a circus job is seasonal, these men now work with event organisers who give them work round the year, which means more money . In three years, our number of jokers has come down from 10 to three,“ said Sanjib Ghoshal of Kohinoor Circus.
 
 SN Ghosh from Empire Circus, which has put up a tent in Patuli, revealed that half of their eight jokers have quit over the past two years without notice and had started their own business.
 
 NO MORE A FAMILY TRADITION
 
 Madhusudhan Ghosh, 65, has been working as a joker with Kohinoor Circus for 42 years. CT caught up with him on a winter afternoon just before the first show. He was busy applying makeup in his tent. “I have devoted my whole life to this profession. Whatever I've earned from here has helped my family survive. But I was very firm that none of my children should be a part of the profession. Look at how I'm living here. It's not a great life. Nowadays, a family can't survive on just `8-10,000,“ he said.
 
 Like Madhusudhan, Suraj Prasad, who is also a clown in the same circus, said he would not want his family members to become jokers. “Though I like travelling a lot, I know that I wouldn't want this job for my son or daughter. In my family , I'm the only one who's short. Since I didn't complete school, my father put me in the circus. But if you want a better life, circus is not an option,“ he said.
 
 “Earlier the members of a circus would marry among themselves and carry forward the tradition. But these days, most artistes are hired and they work for more than one circus at a time. So, the tradition of working as a joker generation by generation is also getting lost,“ said Sanjib of Kohinoor Circus.
 
 LACK OF ADAPTABILITY
 
 So why are the crowds dwindling?
 Managers and organisers blame it on the lack of innovation and the same old bag of tricks that hasn't changed in years. “Foreign circuses come up with out-of-thebox tricks, but in India, there are no new ideas. Most professional clowns don't have a good idea about the world outside and most don't have access to internet or TV . They are in the same space where they were 50 years back,“ said Manjit Dholakia, who works as an agent for foreign hands in local circuses.
 
 
