Anita Nair has been a regular participant at the   and the third edition of the festival will once again see the writer and publisher donning an active role. Nair will be taking part in a few panel discussions as well as a children's workshop where she will read from her latest book, Muezza and Baby Jaan: Stories from the Quran. Now, that's an exercise she is looking forward to, she says.
“I am increasingly beginning to enjoy sessions with children. With children as an audience, it is very hard to keep their attention but having written for children, I find it satisfying. While they may not appreciate the nuances of the story or writing style, they react instinctively ,“ says Nair who has, with her Attic Books, become a publisher as well.
 
 “I have always been a serious reader of literary fiction. It reflects in my writing too. I am increasingly seeing that the kind of books getting published in India are very middlebrow. Not only are publishers choosing to publish these books there's also a certain dumbing down of readers. I felt I needed to do something to up the reading quotient. The list of books we publish will be carefully chosen,“ she says.
 
 Talking about litfests, Nair admits that she isn't exactly a fan of them. “After the Times Litfest, I may not attend another for a long time,“ she confesses. But when she is at one, Nair prefers attending the  . “Being a writer is a solitary calling, there is no dissemination of ideas daily with other people. For me, a   is a place where I can listen to different writers, and learn about what goes on in their mind. I look for fresh insights, I want to discover something new that I have never heard before,“ she says.
 
 As for  , Nair's advice is simple: “If you are at a particular panel, stay there and listen instead of walking out midway . You are at a literature festival, not window-shopping at a mall. It is debilitating for an author to see the crowd leaving halfway through the session. One of the most important aspects of a litfest is the opportunity it gives readers to interact with writers. So, participate by asking questions. It could be a simple one, but ask questions.“
 
 The Times Litfest, presented by ACT Fibernet, will be held on February 11 & 12 at Jayamahal Palace. For details, timeslitfestbegaluru.com
 
