Visakhapatnam: The three-day zoo summer camp in association with Trendsetters Charitable Trust (TCT) concluded on Saturday at Indira Gandhi Zoo Park (IGZP). For the camp, 32 children had registered. The aim of the camp was to impart the conservation message through practical experience at the zoo.

 Children were taught about wildlife conservation, how efforts are taken in captive management, detailing about carnivores, herbivores, primates, reptiles and their habitat practically at their respective night kraals.
 
 On day-one, retired IAS officer EAS Sarma and zoo curator B Vijaya Kumar addressed the children. Participants were taken to the night kraal to see activities like bathing an elephant, feeding and taking footprints, which helps estimate the age and height of the elephant. Participants were given a presentation on wildlife conservation and exposure to the animal pellets and antlers collected from zoo enclosures.
 
 The second day started with displaying of placards, introduction to carnivores and their vital role in the ecosystem. The day continued with demonstrating pug mark identification and its relevance for wildlife estimation. Children were then exposed to the reptile section, taught how to handle and feed the tortoise and a short snake show was arranged under the guidance of the keepers. The day ended with presentations on field biology and exchange of views from children.
 
 On the final day, trail walk in the zoo, butterfly identification, bird watch and lessons on inter dependencies of species followed. Children were taught about the lifecycle of butterflies and birds as well as other free-ranging animals. They were taken to the hospital and then participants were given chance to understand hand rearing, neonatal care of hyena cubs and sacred-baboon baby. The children were shown the feed and storage section. Preparation, segregation and transportation of feed to animal sections was demonstrated. The camp ended with a keynote speech by the curator and distribution of participation certificates.
 
 
