“The last time I came here was in 2006 when I was sneaked in as a student of this college,” recalled Maanagaram director Lokesh Kanagaraj. “I was pursuing fashion technology at PSG College of Arts and Science and I wanted to be part of the cultural programmes being conducted in this college. I have come here after a decade,” said the director, who was in the city as a judge at the film festival AVTAR (Amateur Visualizers Talents Awards and Recognitions) held at Dr GR Damodaran College of Science on Thursday. The awards are an attempt to encourage and highlight talent and hard work of young and fresh minds of the creative industry. There were 156 entries including 32 ad films and three animation films that competed in 13 categories. Some of the short films- Kattukadhai, Kekka Bakka, Madrasi, Exodus, Alien Harvest and Harvest won appreciation from judges and audiences alike.

 The other judges included   (director of the recent Malayalam hit Aanantham),   (editor of Uriyadi and Aanantham),   (lead actor of Maanagaram and   (director of Dhuruvangal Pathinaaru). Speaking on the occasion, Ganesh said, “I didn’t have the opportunity to attend a film school. I didn’t know what to do, and hence, pursued engineering. It was one of the short films made by a student of this college Abhinav Sundar Naik that inspired me to get into films. I wondered ‘if a college student can make a short film for 50 minutes, why shouldn’t I’.” Interestingly, Abhinav and Ganesh later teamed up for the Malayalam film Aanantham.
 
 Ganesh added, “Today, there is a lot of cultural and talent exchange among film industries. Take the case of Balaji Mohan who is doing well in Kerala and Gautham Menon, one of the biggest names in Kollywood. I believe majority of the films hereafter will be made for pan India viewing. Language is only a medium to tell a story. That shouldn’t be a barrier in pursuing one’s passion in filmmaking.”
 
 When Abhinav got up to speak, he was received with a thunderous rapture, thanks to his association with the college. “When I look at a film, I do not get into the technical details of it, despite the fact that I am a technical person. I just try to enjoy a film and how honestly it is made. It’s the sincerity and passion that matters.”
 
 Shriram, on the other hand, revealed that he wanted to become a filmmaker, but drifted towards acting. “I hope to make a film sometime in future. In fact, I was supposed to assist director Lokesh Kanagaraj in Maangaram. He, however, convinced me to act in the film.”
 
 Karthik Naren of Dhuruvangal Pathinaaru, who hails from the city shared, “Dhuruvangal Pathinaaru has been running for more than 75 days in theatres, but, when it released in December last year, there was absolutely no hype around the film. Coimbatore didn’t have many screens, but the maximum collection for the film was from here. The city will always be special.”
 
 He added, “It’s a tad easier to enter the film industry today. Thanks to social media, word spreads around fast. But, it’s still difficult to get a stage to screen your work. And once your film is made, the biggest challenge is to survive in the market and sustain in the long run. Today, so many films hit screens every week. To carve a niche for yourself is no easy task. I am extremely cautious about my second film after Dhuruvangal Pathinaaru.”
 
 
 
 
 If you want to make a short film, try making a film with lot of mistakes. Don’t aspire to make a perfect film. This way when you make a feature film, you will make one with fewer mistakes - Ganesh Raj
 
 Making a short film itself is a big achievement and it can provide you a platform to be part of the feature film industry. A good film will always work. Make it with utmost honesty and conviction- Lokesh Kanagaraj
 
 I don’t think I have the ability to judge after making a single film. But, there’s one tip- never underestimate your audience- Karthick Naren
 
  
 
