Porvorim: A tripartite memorandum of understanding (MoU) will be signed in two months between the state, Centre and Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI ) on nationalization of rivers in Goa, CM Manohar Parrikar, who also holds the ports portfolio, told the assembly during Question Hour on Thursday. The CM’s statement came in response to a question tabled by Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco.  Seven rivers in Goa have been identified as rivers of national importance under the nationalisation of waterways project. “A tripartite MoU will be signed between the central government, IWAI and Goa government in one or two months,” the CM said adding that discussions are underway on the terms of the agreement and Goa would be entitled to receive funds from the Centre for developing the inland waterways. Allaying fears that the state would lose its hold over its major inland waterways due to the nationalization move, Parrikar said “Centre has assured that powers of operational decision will remain with Goa government.” Advocating the development of inland waterways with central funding, Parrikar said waterways being the cheapest mode of transportation of goods and passengers, the central government is promoting it. It has been proposed that 13 new jetties – four floating and nine non-floating – will be built with funds from the Centre, Parrikar further informed. “However, no action will be initiated unless an environment impact assessment (EIA) is done,” Parrikar clarified in his response to Lourenco’s question after the Curtorim MLA asked whether the environmental impact of the increased traffic following the construction of the new jetties has been taken into consideration. There are 45 jetties of which 39 are private and six managed by Captain of Ports (CoP). He told Lourenco that security at jetties manned by CoP would be stepped up and CCTV cameras installed.  To a suggestion by Congress leader Pratapsing Rane that Goa should explore its inland waterways and introduce catamarans, he said it can be done if any private party is willing to start passenger boat services.