BENGALURU: The spate of   at the   in the past week has brought home the inconvenient truth about the unpreparedness of the   to combat emergencies. Large vacancies in the number of forest guards, watchers and deputy range forest officers, who collectively form the first line of defence against natural disasters such as wild fires, besides keeping the woods safe from poachers, indicates the level of vulnerability of our woods.

 Information obtained through a RTI query about staff strength at the 12 protected forest areas, including tiger reserves in Karnataka revealed that, against a sanctioned strength of 1,345 personnel to man the forests, the current capacity was just 905 – a gaping 33% shortage. With the force stretched thin, gruesome incidents such as the forest fire on February 18 in Bandipur that claimed the life of a guard are bound to recur. 
 
 “At the Bandipur Tiger Reserve, 83 of the 249 sanctioned posts are lying vacant. Of these, 55 vacancies are for the post of forest guards. The department says that they are managing the situation with contract workers. But one can imagine the training, or lack thereof, that these temporary workers have to deal with emergencies,” said Tejus RS, a wildlife enthusiast.
 
 At the Male Mahadeshwara Hills Wildlife Sanctuary, 43% of the posts are lying vacant, the most in Karnataka, trailed by Shivamogga Wildlife Division (41%) and Biligiri Ranga Tiger Reserve (40%). That a single watcher has not been appointed at the Kudremukh Wildlife Division for the past two years, reflects the apathy of the administration.
 
 Across these 12 protected areas, forests are spread over 8,747sqkm. The forests, located along the Western Ghats, are home to several rare species of flora and fauna.
 
 Joseph Hoover, member of the Karnataka State Wildlife Board, pointed to the imminent need to fill these vacancies. “”The staff strength in the state’s forests has been the same for the past two decades. We get huge funds for tiger protection; why can’t we strengthen our force?” he asked.
 
 Fighting fire with tree branches
 
 Besides the crippling shortage of manpower, the other big problem that the forest department officials have to contend with is the lack of equipment and safety gear. In a recent letter to Karnataka chief secretary Subash Chandra Khuntia, members of the Rashtriya Parisara Samrakashana Okkuta, Mangaluru, illustrated how ill-equipped the forest staff were. “They are fighting fire using tree branches. Many of them have no safety gear. Nor do they have oxygen cylinders, vehicles, etc,” read the letter, a copy of which is available with TOI.
 
 Hoover pointed out that the forest department doesn’t have a fire engine of its own. “In the recent incident at Bandipur,   had to be summoned from Gundlupet and Chamrajnagar, which are 19km and 52km from the spot respectively. The department needs to equip its staff with the necessary gear and tools to fight these fires. Drawing fire lines and hiring contract workers will not be enough, with summer just around the corner,” he added.
 
 No room at the top
 
 Ironically, while there are large vacancies for the posts of forest guards and watchers – many have been lying vacant for decades – no such problem is ailing the top brass of the department. While there are no vacancies for the post of assistant conservator of forests – 23 in total – 59 of the 73 sanctioned posts for range forest officers are filled.
 
 However, sufficient manpower on the ground is vital to ensuring maximum security of the forests. “Roads that pass through the forests have to be constantly monitored. Also, guards have to take regular beats round the clock to prevent poaching as well,” said Tejus RS, a wildlife enthusiast.
 
