NASHIK: The sanitation department of the Nashik   has launched campaign to check the quality of   sources across the district to ensure that people in rural areas get clean drinking water.

 Officials of the ZP said that it is pre-monsoon checking of water quality so that measures can be taken to prevent  . The pre-monsoon sanitation survey is conducted by the water and sanitation department from March to May. 
 
 “The campaign is undertaken to encourage villagers to take preventive measures to clean the area around their water sources and prevent outbreak of diseases in the monsoon,” they said.
 
 The sanitation department is also conducting tests to find out the proportion of chemical substances in the  , which is constantly dipping due to the scorching heat. 
 
 The officials said that given the shortage of water during summer, people draw water from wells, hand pumps and borewells. “However, the deeper the groundwater level goes, the more it gets contaminated with chemicals. Villagers use the same water for drinking, which could have adverse effects on their health. On this backdrop, a two-month campaign has been taken up to check the water quality.” 
 
 If there are villages where water contamination is high, the district administration can start sourcing water from other places or take up other projects to ensure that the villagers are not affected. 
 
 In May last year, over 200 villagers from Matori village, 30 km from here, were taken ill after drinking contaminated water from a well. Twenty-six people, including four men, had to be admitted to the Girnare rural hospital for diarrhoea and vomiting. 
 
 Senior officials said that water quality in rural areas directly affected the health of people. Apart from checking the presence of chemicals in water, prevention of bacterial contamination is also important of water sources.
 
 The officials said that they had also explained to the people at the village level about the importance of providing clean drinking water to avoid health hazards and instructed the Jal Surakshaks and gram sevaks to take up water purification programmes, as and when required, as per the guidelines laid down by the authorities.
 
 The officials said that special attention has to be paid to ensure that the area around the source of water in a villages is not dirty and there are no leakages in the pipeline to prevent health risks and outbreak of a diseases.
 
