GUWAHATI:   has suspended CID   N Rajamarthandan for disclosing crucial information of an ongoing investigation on the Silapathar incident, in which an office of the AASU was attacked by a group.

 "Rajamarthandan has violated service rules and also allegedly falsified documents. He has been put under immediate suspension and a criminal case has been registered, besides initiating departmental inquiry," Assam Police Director General Mukesh Sahay told PTI.
 
 It was alleged that he revealed crucial investigation information in reply to an RTI query, Sahay said.
 
 "However, no RTI application was officially received by the CID office. That means he has falsified some documents to get information of the   out from the office. This is a criminal act," the DGP said, he added that the officer unauthorisedly leaked information as the CID was fully exempted from RTI Act and investigation details cannot be revealed.
 
 Incidentally, the SSP was the public information officer of the CID and was heading the Special Investigation Team formed to probe the Silapathar case.
 
 In the mean time,   Commissioner Hiren Chandra Nath said a criminal case has been registered at Paltan Bazar Police Station in connection with the incident.
 
 "The case is a very serious one. We have decided to hand it over to the Crime Branch. A team has been formed and a DSP rank officer will enquire into the case," he said.
 
 Reacting to the development, All Assam Students' Union (AASU) general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi alleged a conspiracy was going on to free the main accused Subodh Biswas, all-India president of fringe group Nikhil Bharat Bangali Udbastu Samanway Samitee (NIBBUSS), which was blamed for the attack.
 
 Biswas was arrested from West Bengal on March 22 and was currently under police remand.
 
 On March 6, NIBBUSS had organised a rally followed by a march at Silapathar in Dhemaji district demanding citizenship to all Hindu immigrants from Bangladesh.
 
 According to a report of an all-party delegation of the Assam Assembly, around 2,500 people marched through the town after the meeting and ransacked the AASU office, damaged a sahid bedi (martyr's memorial) and photographs of Bhupen Hazarika and Jyoti Prasad Agarwala.
 
 More than 40 accused named in the FIR and subsequently found involved in the incident during investigation, were arrested from various parts of Assam.
 
