KOLKATA: For the first time in the country, the official issuing a driving licence or a vehicle fitness certificate will be made accountable in case of a major  , if lapses are detected on his part. The move, the state government believes, would eliminate the two major factors behind road accidents — unfit drivers and unfit vehicles.

 “Incompetent drivers cannot obtain driving licence and an unfit vehicle cannot obtain a certificate of fitness,” transport minister Suvendu Adhikari said in the assembly on Monday, two days after chief minister   expressed concern over the high number of road deaths. 
 
 All driving tests and vehicle-fitness test will be recorded by CCTVs, footage from which will be linked to the driving licence and the fitness certificate. “The recorded footage will be recalled in case of a major accident and the licensing officer will be made accountable,” Adhikari said. The process has already been initiated at   as a pilot project.
 
 Stating that 90% of the accidents are a result of human error, Suvendu Adhikari said, “It is time to take some action and bring transparency. The process for issuing driving licences and vehicle fitness certificates is corrupt. The corrupt system produces corrupt drivers and unfit vehicles, which are extremely dangerous for other road users. We need efficient drivers who will ensure greater road safety,” he added.
 
 “I know there are agencies operating in the vicinity of the RTOs across the state. These agencies supply almost everything brand new — right from the tyres to the brake shoe — to a vehicle appearing for the fitness test. After the fitness certificate is issued, all the new parts are returned along with the rent and the old parts are put back in the vehicle. Such vehicles are bound to cause accidents,” he said.
 
 According to the Union road transport ministry data, Bengal is among the states that record the maximum number of road mishaps. Around 5,000 people die in road accidents in the state every year. The fatality rate from road accidents in Bengal is 52% compared to the national average of 13%. 
 
 Though the number of accidents reduced in 2015 and 2016, the recent spate has left the chief minister unhappy.
 
 “In Bengal, goods and commercial vehicles cause around 45-50% of the road accidents. Overspeeding by commercial vehicles has played a major role in these cases,” said Kamal Soi, a member of the   under the transport ministry. 
 
 
