NEW DELHI:  , the Supreme Court-appointed head of the   ( ) and also the ex-CAG, is positive that the order of the court to implement the Lodha recommendations will be carried out in the next few months. Rai admits the road ahead is not going to be easy but insists at the same time that “it's an order of the country's highest court, so it's not a choice but a mandate“. Rai took time out to speak at length on a variety of topics concerning Indian cricket. 

 Excerpts...
 
 
 
 
 The difficulties we are experiencing are lesser than what we initially thought. We are pretty confident that whatever is on the agenda as far as we are concerned, we'll be able to take care of that. The CoA is working on implementation of reforms and the primary task is to get the state associations to agree to them. That has certainly not appeared all that easy. The SC has given a direction, a ruling, a verdict. Now, our job is to implement that verdict. We're trying to persuade the state associations to accept the model constitution of the articles that have been suggested.
 
 
 
 
 The point is not that COA wants the associations to do something. It is the court order which they are not accepting. It is not that their understanding of the court order is different from ours. The only thing is they are having difficulty accepting the practical aspects of the reforms. Hopefully, within a course of time, they will understand. We will talk to them and see if they need any clarity and will try and help them out.
 
 
 
 
 That's why I'm saying we will sit down and make them understand. All attempts will be to try and persuade associations to accept the court order. As I said, we're willing to have a conversation with them but ultimately they have to understand that it is the verdict of the country's highest court.
 
 
 
 
 When I said things are progressing smoothly, I talked about the IPL, the conduct of the auctions. All the arrangements were taken care of. Please understand that we've been here only for 50 days so far. We've just put out the model constitution two days back. They've (associations) been around for 30-40 years. You don't expect them to turn overnight and adopt something they're not familiar with.
 
 
 
 
 We want to make an attempt to collaborate. But just because it is not suiting (associations), they cannot become a stumbling block in implementing a   order.
 
 
 
 
 For every objective to be achieved, you got to do it in stages. At each stage, whatever “persuasive” powers need to be applied, we will apply. Experience tells us how to go about it. They've been there for so many years and suddenly they've been asked to go. They are not able to accept that. But at some point of time, they'll realise that it's the end of the road for them. And if they don't understand it, then they'll have to be made to understand in a language that they will understand. You cannot show defiance to the highest court in the land. Greater bodies, more authoritative people have tried to defy the Supreme Court and they've not succeeded.
 
 
 
 
 In the last 50 days, the   has functioned smoothly, without any of these functionaries (state associations). It is for the media to decide if they have greater confidence in them (associations) or in us (CoA) and the Court.
 
 
 
 
 The court could've simply said last year itself that all state associations or functionaries are dissolved and that would've been the end of it but that's not for me to say. What I can sense here is that the (court's) attempt has been to try and persuade them to see the writing on the wall.
 
 
 
 
 We'd like to have these things wrapped up as quickly as possible. Maybe by October or on the outside by December is more or less the timeline we have in place and I'm reasonably confident that we'll wrap it up this time.
 
 
 
 
 It is absolutely clear and we've issued a clarification on that: It is nine years.
 
 
 
 
 The Australian press was jingoistic. Maybe we were too. After we put in the complaint, the Australians got in touch with us and had certain concerns. We asked them to back off. But to put it all in a nutshell, let me say this: In true spirit of the game, we decided not to press our complaints. I don't want to elaborate.
 
