BHOPAL: An adult tiger and a leopard were found dead under mysterious circumstances near mid-ghat area of   district in Madhya Pradesh -- around 30 km from the state capital on Thursday morning. 

 This is the third tiger to have died in the state in the last two months, 34th since 2016. The last one to have died was a tigress — coded T1 — found near Sarvahi village in   district on January 21.
 
 Sources in the railway protection force (RPF) confirmed that the leopard was found dead on the tracks with its head severed. 
 
 "Tiger was found around 20 meters from leopard's carcass near a pool of water," RPS Yadav, RPF sub inspector told TOI. Sources say that a wrong chain fencing around the mid-ghat railway track was a major reason for frequent deaths at this spot.
 
 “The fencing has been done on the down side. Problem is that wild animals come downwards for water and find it difficult to return due to this fencing. This has to be corrected,” said a railway officer. "Poisoning of water cannot be ruled out,” he added. 
 
 Earlier in 2015, an adult male tiger, hit by a speeding train at the same spot, had succumbed to injuries due to an undue delay on part of the department’s rescue team. The tiger was found on the same place near the mid-ghat area of Sehore district.
 
 Ratapani, which recorded a population of eight breeding tigers in the area, has not yet been notified as a tiger reserve despite an in-principle approval from   ( ) in 2008.   is spread over 890 sqkm in Bhopal-Raisen forest division.
 
 This is being delayed to facilitate developmental projects in the area. NHAI wants to widen the existing 4/6 lane NH-12 section from   to   through Ratapani. There's also upgradation work on Obaidullagunj to Rehti Road that passes through Ratapani.
 
 Recently, Madhya Pradesh high court admitted a petition over delay in notifying Ratapani area as a tiger reserve. The petition was moved by RTI activist Ajay Dubey through his counsel Siddhartha Radhelal Gupta. Notices were served to department of forest, PCCF Wildlife, State Wildlife Board, National Tiger Conservation Authority and environment ministry asking them to reply as to why the proposed Ratapani reserve has not been notified till date despite approval by NTCA.
 
 A proposal for notification of Ratapani as a tiger reserve was moved in backdrop of rising tiger population in the sanctuary and big cats repeatedly straying into Kerwa forests in Bhopal district resulting in man-animal conflict. 
 
