BATHINDA: Farm labourer Joginder Singh is cutting stubble in a patch of two acres after harvesting paddy at village   on  . He has to prepare the field for the next wheat crop immediately after the paddy crop on another 38 acres is harvested within couple of days. The stubble is being chopped so fire could be set to the rest of the field easily.

 These 40 acres are owned by farmer Sandeep Singh, who nonchalantly claims that he is going to burn the straw as he has no other option. Sandeep says that agriculture department officials simply ask the farmers not to burn the stubble but miserably fail to provide any alternative or compensate the farmers for mixing the residue in soil without burning.
 
 Just 2 km away, farmer   of the same village is also determined to clear his six acres by the same method. Both of these farmers readily agreed to let their names be printed, even though they knew they would be defying government and   orders.
 
 They are not alone. Dozens of farmers in villages Kot Shamir, Tungwali, Katar Singh Wala, Sangat and others in Bathinda have openly announced to burn the stubble even if it means paying fines.
 
 “We have to spend at least Rs 3,500-4,000 in clearing one acre of the residue. Burning it cost next to nothing and is quicker too. We are doing so for the past many years and will continue. This practice can be stopped only if the state government fully compensates farmers,” said Jagroop Singh.
 
 A score of village panchayats are openly coming out and announcing to burn stubble while defying the clear orders. This could well lead to confrontations situation. “Either the state government provides us the machinery free of cost or provide Rs 3,000 per acre compensation. Else we will go ahead with burning stubble and are ready to face the cases”, said farm organisation BKU Ekta Ugrahan general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri and BKU Dakonda vice-president Manjit Singh Dhaner.
 
 Punjab agriculture department director  , when contacted, said that state government was serious to deal with the issue due to various high courts and NGT to stop the environment from getting polluted.
 
