KOLKATA:   has got a vital court nod that will allow them to access the recorded conversation between an   and the   (ATC) officials on November 30 last year. The police had moved Barrackpore court seeking the tape. DGCA though is likely to contest the court ruling citing laws that state such tapes can be released only when a judge himself conducts a court of inquiry. 

 Public prosecutor   said the audio "was very important" for the case. With the DGCA probe over, police told court technical analysis can be conducted and the accused -- if identified - can be arrested based on the transcripts.
 
 On November 30, CM   and some other Trinamool leaders were returning to the city on an IndiGo flight. The flight reached Kolkata but kept circling in air for some time before landing. When Mamata and others finally came out of the plane, they found ambulances and fire tenders ready. "The focus of our probe is to ascertain if the incident was man-made or negligence," said an officer. The cops had registered a suo motu case in this regard at airport police station under IPC Section 307 (attempt to murder).
 
  The investigators feel, DGCA giving a clean chit to the ATC raises "questionable doubts" on the role of officers on duty that day. "We might seek the help of DGCA itself for this purpose," said an officer.
 
 AAI officials termed the police move "extra-ordinary". An official also questioned the police's intent in filing the case when a probe had was already on. 
 
  Kolkata: Bidhannagar police have got a vital court nod that will allow them to access the recorded conversation between an Indigo pilot and the Kolkata Air Traffic Control (ATC) officials on November 30 last year. The police had moved Barrackpore court seeking the tape. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) though is likely to contest the court ruling citing laws that state such tapes can be released only when a judge himself conducts a court of inquiry. 
 
 For the time being, public prosecutor Pallab Chowdhury stated the audio "was very important" for the case. With the DGCA probe over, police told court technical analysis can be conducted and the accused -- if identified - can be arrested based on the transcripts.
 
 On November 30, CM Mamata Banerjee and other members of   were returning to the city in an Indigo flight. The flight reached Kolkata but kept circling in air instead of landing. When Mamata and others finally came out of the plane after it landed, they found ambulances and fire tenders ready - a clear sign airport officials were bracing for an emergency landing. "The focus of our probe is to ascertain if the incident was man-made or negligence," said an officer. The cops had registered a suo motto case in this regard at airport police station under IPC section 307 (attempt to murder).
 
 "The technical details are beyond our knowledge. It is best we sought technical help" said an investigating officer. The investigators feel, the DGCA giving a clean chit to the ATC, raises "questionable doubts" on the role of officers on duty that day. "We might seek the help of DGCA itself for this purpose," said an officer. 
 
 Officials of AAI though were not pleased with the police move terming it "extra-ordinary." An official also questioned the police's intent in filing the case when a probe had already been constituted. Recordings of that evening's conversation between the pilots and the ATCOs would not pointed to anything significant, they claimed.
 
 Bidhannagar police had earlier sent same set of questionnaires to both ATC and Indigo Airlines asking them to explain what led to Mamata's flight from Patna hovering "dangerously" in the sky. Trinamool had claimed that the aircraft was forced to hover over Kolkata despite being low on fuel with the intent to trigger a mishap.
 
 "The questions were basic in nature and will be treated as an official statement from both sides. If required, we might ask the DGCA to ascertain if their independent probe has found anything similar to what our team finds out. However, it is this conversation between ATC and the airlines that will form the crux of this probe. We are in no hurry," claimed an officer adding, they have not fixed any time limit for the concerned authorities to reply to the questions. "We are depending on their goodwill to help us probe the case," said an officer.
 
 
