MUMBAI: Superstar   was among the first few on Monday to download the traffic police's app that can be used by anyone to capture traffic offences on a cellphone camera. From illegal parking to speeding to jumping signal, now there's no traffic offence that cannot land a violator with an e-challan if it is caught on camera and submitted to the police through MTPapp (  app).

 “The app will create a more alert citizenry and help our police bring down traffic offences. I will personally click pictures of offenders and alert the traffic police,“ said Bachchan as he inaugurated the 28th Road Safety Week at a packed NCPA auditorium on Monday. He also offered to be the “brand ambassador“ for road safety in Maharashtra.
 
 The app can also be used for paying fines under e-challans, locating traffic diversions, identifying parking space, and locating towed vehicles.
 
 Various other traffic measures were reiterated or announced, including the e-challan system, which is CCTVbased. The police have collected data on over 20 lakh motorists and bikers registered with RTOs in Mumbai. Daily , at least 5,000 motorists are slapped with fines through e-challans.
 
 State transport commissioner   said in three to four months, the 50 RTOs across the state could be linked by a central server, and thus integrated with the traffic police's e-challan system. The digital system will enable the easy tracking of repeat offenders. He also said, “We have made driving tests at the RTO stringent. Recently , 25-30% driving licence applicants were declared 'failed' at most RTOs. In future, we will have computerised driving tests.“
 
 Additional DGP (traffic)   said, “We have observed that even educated people violate traffic rules with impunity . It is also noticed that 90% of motorists don't use indicators, which easily could reduce traffic accidents. Even people who drive high-end cars don't value money and throw cash at the traffic police when slapped with fines.“
 
 
 
 
 The path of good intentions is often littered with haphazard implementation. In the e-world we live in today, every bit, every app that reduces manual intervention and enhances speed and efficiency of systems-bringing traffic offenders to book in this case--is welcome.However, care should be taken to ensure that the e-linking of RTOs to a central server doesn't end up being a white elephant with tons of actionable data, but no action.At the same time, instead of relying solely on citizens' complaints, the traffic cops on duty must do their job diligently to curb rampant violations on the road.
 
