Kolkata: Customers who have shopped at New Market for generations are fast deserting the heritage mart. The reason: car parking lots have simply disappeared. If the customer owns a car, New Market is now completely out of bounds for him/her. 

 On the paper, there is space in and around New Market to park 410 cars. But in reality, there is hardly any. Half the car park has been shut down by KMC and most of the remaining lot has been taken over by hawkers. On Friday evening, only 42 shoppers could park their cars in the vicinity. 
 
 If the KMC’s arbitrary decision to shut down Parkomat — the underground car park with a capacity of 210 vehicles — wasn’t a big enough blow to the market, the influx of hawkers and their rapid takeover of not just pavements but the streets alongwith the KMC designated parking lots has left shoppers in the lurch. Such is the situation that car parking cooperatives that had won the contract are desperate to terminate it as they are now incurring a loss.
 
 Take for example the parking space on Bertram Street allotted to a cooperative agency. The KMC had in 2012 allotted spa0ce for accommodating 60 cars on this stretch. Five years down the line, the parking attendants have to manage only 12 cars during the day. Worse, an entire flank of Bertram Street, which would accommodate no less than 25 cars, has been gobbled up by new hawkers who have come down till carriageway to ensure no car is parked in the flank.
 
 Similarly, car parking space has reduced drastically in other areas around New Market. Humayun Place, which has a capacity to accommodate 40 cars, can hardly adjust 10 cars. Parking capacity in Lindsay Street has also shrinked considerably. Here, out of a capacity to accommodate 50 cars, the agency can at best make space for 20.
 
 According to an attendant, the flourishing hawking business has sidelined the parking business. Even parking attendants are being offered lucrative incentives by a section of hawkers for each car parking space. “Our volume of business is continuously dwindling. Every day we are being offered lucrative price for parking space left in the area,” an attendant who manages a parking space on Bertram Street told TOI.
 
 This is not all. The attendants feel the heat from a section of hawkers who habitually turn an entire car into a business vehicle. “Some hawkers don’t pay heed to our requests and keep their wares on cars to make up for the loss of space,” said Mohammed Imtiaz, a parking attendant.
 
 “We have brought the matter to the notice of the civic authorities and police several times. But all requests have fallen on deaf ears. We want them to free up parking space immediately,” Uday Sahoo, secretary of the Joint Traders Federation (JTF), said. A KMC car parking department said: “We have brought the matter to the notice of the civic top brass. We, too, feel an initiative should be taken to restore car parking space in the locality.” 
 
 
