PANAJI:   Green Tribunal (NGT) has ordered the initiation of a procedure to prosecute  , a property owner from Anjuna, for perjury, after he   about the demolition of illegal structures in a no-development zone (NDZ).

 The tribunal, however, acquitted three government officials: the deputy collector of Mapusa, mamlatdar of Mapusa and a technical officer of the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) after giving them the benefit of doubt.
 
 While disposing of an application filed by Kashinath Shetye and others with an order to demolish remains of illegal structures in property bearing survey Nos. 213/23-A of Anjuna, the tribunal had issued showcause notices to Pereira and the three government officials asking to explain why prosecution under IPC Sections 193 and 219 should not be initiated against them.
 
 The tribunal had passed an order for demolition of the structures on August 6, 2015, but Shetye, in his plea, had alleged that it had only been partially complied with.
 
 The counsel for the respondent submitted that Pereira had filed a compliance report dated August 10 that same year and asked for permission to erect temporary huts in his private property. Pereira had not made any false statements before the tribunal, but there was inadvertence or misconstruance of the terms of the order, his counsel had added. 
 
 However, Pereira was exposed after the NGT registrar’s inspection report of February 2016, confirmed that two wooden sheds of restaurants with a concrete base, furniture, compound wall and other structures had not been razed. 
 
 “Hill-cutting activity has divided the disputed site into two partsupper and lower and the staircases between the two are intact,” the report further stated.
 
 It was further stated that the Mapusa deputy collector and the   had acted in a bona fide manner in filing the compliance report after being satisfied with the GCZMA official’s statement that all structures had been razed. NGT has directed the state to provide all legal, ministerial and logistical assistance to the NGT registrar in the matter and recover costs from Pereira.
 
