AMRITSAR: The   has announced to hold the byelection to the Amritsar Lok Sabha constituency along with the Punjab assembly polls on February 4. The seat was vacated by sitting MP and   chief Captain Amarinder Singh, who had resigned in protest against the   judgement in the Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal accusing the state government of failing to protect the river waters of Punjab. 

 Immediately after the announcement, hectic activities began in political circles immediately after announcement of Amritsar Lok Sabha byelection date by the Election Commission on Friday. Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Captain Amarinder Singh, who is spearheading the party's assembly election campaign in the state, had defeated Arun Jaitley in the Lok Sabha elections held in 2014 but vacated the seat in protest against Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal issue.
 
 While talking to TOI, Amarinder, who had won the elections with a margin of over 1.20 lakh votes, said party would be fielding a winning candidate who would not only be the best but would also serve the constituency. "Congress has much acceptability in Punjab and we are sure our candidate will win a historic win as had happened last time," he said.
 
  (AAP) Punjab convener Gurpreet Singh Waraich claimed, "We are not only forming government in Punjab but are also sending one more MP to the Lok Sabha in March." He said following announcement of date for the Lok Sabha byelection, AAP would hold a meeting to mull over the name of candidate. "In all probability we will try to field a local candidate," said Waraich. He also claimed that people of Punjab wanted AAP to represent them not only in state assembly but also at Centre.
 
 Former BJP state vice-president Rajindermohan Singh Chinna, who is considered close to Union finance minister Arun Jaitley, had already begun preparation for the Lok Sabha elections much before the announcement of bypoll date by the Election Commission. Sources informed TOI that there was probability of former BJP MP Navjot Singh Sidhu's wife Dr   could be the choice of the Congress to contest from Amritsar. "According to agreement with Congress leadership, Sidhu will contest assembly elections from Amritsar (East), which is represented by his wife, while she would be fielded MP candidate by Congress," said a source in the Congress.
 
