Poriem: Wrapped in the green blanket of the Sahyadris, the cluster of eight villages that comprise the Poriem constituency appears to be cut-off though they lies barely 50km from Panaji. The buzz surrounding the February 4 assembly polls seems faint in this long-time bastion of opposition leader,  .

 The   (BJP), Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP),   (AAP) and Congress have fielded their candidates — Vishwajit K Rane, Suhas Naik, Sitaram Gawas and Pratapsingh Rane, respectively, but the contest is almost invisible. The usual election paraphernalia — posters and banners — are difficult to spot in laid-back Poriem. Sloganeering and campaigning are missing overall, though some late evening campaigns are witnessed sometimes.
 
 Looked upon as a benefactor, the senior Rane undoubtedly holds sway in Poriem despite a lacklustre campaign.
 
 His son, Vishwajit Rane, has taken it upon himself to canvass for his father.
 
 After BJP’s parivartan mantra calling to ring in change from Congress’ rule of corruption and poor governance engulfed the March 2012 assembly polls, the Ranes are cautious. At the time, Rane Sr had faced a tough challenge, probably for the first in his entire political career. Many had seen Rane campaigning door-to-door, something he had not done much in the past. But, the BJP wave failed to hit him. Rane defeated BJP candidate, Vishwajit K Rane, his relative. But, his winning margin dropped to 2,547 votes.
 
 Vishwajit K Rane is contesting yet again on the BJP ticket. Sources said that he has been campaigning, but has avoided those areas where the Ranes enjoy substantial clout. 
 
 Many in Poriem are in awe of Ranes, but 50-year-old widow, Rama Naik (name changed), who does not have a regular source of income, could not hide her disappointment with them. When Vishwajit Rane was health minister, he had recruited many youth from Sattari in the departments of agriculture and health.
 
 Rama said that her son, who now works for a private company, was not one of the lucky ones. “Jobs went to those who has connections with the Ranes,” she said.
 
 The MGP has fielded Suhas Naik and AAP, Sitaram Gawas, but many are not aware of their presence. Babi Naik, a girl in her twenties, and another youth voter, Gaurish Naik, did not think any other candidate will impress voters in Poriem.
 
 “What has the BJP done for us in the last five years?” Gaurish, who is unemployed, questioned. His attempt to join the police department has been put on hold after the government cancelled the recruitment process.
 
 People think it will be Rane v/s Rane in Poriem, though the fight may not be as intense as witnessed last time.
 
 While the villages of Poriem are picturesquely set, the degree of unemployment and backwardness seen here puts the constituency in stark contrast with other constituencies in the state. 
 
 A few people of the constituency are employed in various government departments, jobs that they probably secured during Rane’s long tenure as chief minister. Most others work in fields for daily wages or in cashew plantations during the season.
 
 Some are into horticulture cultivation, but their numbers are likely to be less when compared to that of neighbouring constituency, Valpoi.
 
 Life moves in slow motion in Poriem. People seem content that "Pratapsingh Rane’s doors" are always open to them, and his opponents will probably miss yet another chance at making a breakthrough in the constituency.
 
 
