Heritage connoisseurs will soon be able to get a peek of the haunting beauty and rustic charm of Telangana’s long-forgotten stepwells, a hundred of them, all at once. After nearly a year’s research and painstaking field trips criss-crossing the countryside, the   (HDF) — a posse of history and heritage enthusiasts — has tracked down 100 ancient, neglected stepwells, that will be documented in a book titled ‘Forgotten   of Telangana’.
Slated to be unveiled in January, the 200-page book will showcase the rich legacy of the techniques of stepwell construction in the state, and the deplorable state in which most of these structures are today, says architect AR  , who heads the documentation and research wing of the group.
 “Backed by historical documents, photographs and essays on history and climatology, it will serve as a one-stop resource on the topic for researchers and architects,” says Yeshwant. 
 While the group has identified about 100 stepwells in the state, official records of the Dept of Archaeology and Museums, Telangana state put the figure at only 35. “Fifty per cent of these priceless structures can be revived if the authorities initiate restoration efforts immediately. Otherwise, they will be lost forever,” says Yeshwant, lamenting that neither the Archaeological Survey of India nor the   department has undertaken any steps for the facelift.
 Apart from their rich heritage aspect, he says, the stepwells can once again serve as drinking water sources for local communities, depending on maintenance. “Centuries of neglect have put heavy pressure on these wells, but they still get back some of their old-age charm when monsoon fills these treasures of the past. But the irony is that slowly, they have been turned into dumping yards by locals, and no one cares for them anymore,” points out Yeshwant.
 
 
 
 Formed in 2015, the HDF today comprises 20 active members and has a dedicated 10-member research team. The group was instrumental in the resurfacing of a 65-feet stepwell in Uppuguda, Hyderabad, recently. “This vertical deep structure belongs to the Qutb Shahi era, and its architectural style is similar to that of other stepwells built by the dynasty in Telangana and other parts of their kingdom,” says Yeshwant.
 This was the first-ever discovery of an ancient stepwell in city by the team. “That discovery prompted us to unearth similar forgotten structures,” says MBV Bhargav, a member. 
 The team recently conducted documentation of the structure with Google Maps using exact coordinates. Unlike well-known historical structures in the city, such documentation is required to understand the design and other physical aspects better. “This will shed more light on it, and enable historians and architects to explore the structure in detail,” adds Bhargav, asserting that they encourage locals to protect the structures by sensitising them about their historical and ecological importance.
 
 
 
 It seems the enthusiasm of the activists has rubbed off on the locals to step up restoration work. 
 Recently, local residents pooled in resources to protect the structure by de-silting the well and removing sundry litter.
 Terming it a great achievement, city-based lake conservationist   says, “It’s high time we stopped dumping plastic waste in lakes and wells. Initiatives such as this will help revive our history by preserving our priceless traditional wisdom passed on us to us by our forefathers.”
 
 
