Last week, GL Bajaj Institute of Technology and Management’s campus turned into a battlefield as students from 15 colleges of Delhi-NCR engaged in a face-off in Turf War, an indoor football championship, which allows only five participants from each team. 

  
  All smiles:   (BCCL)
 
 
 Held in a specially built indoor court, more than a dozen matches were played over two days, which lead to teams from   and Greater Noida Institute of Technology making it to the final. Between the matches, fun games involving students were organised. While some battled in push-up challenges, others danced to the beats of a dhol band present there.  , a freestyle football expert, also entertained the crowd by performing skills and tricks with a football, receiving loud cheers during his five-minute performance. 
 The final was a largely one-sided affair with the boys from Sharda University trouncing their opponents by a huge margin of 10-0. The Sharda team received plenty of support from the students at GL Bajaj, with a section of students standing in the balcony of the adjoining hostel cheering and whistling at every goal.
 
  
  Freestyling with the ball: Nick
 
 
  
  It’s snap time: Martina Thariyan
 
 
  
  Let’s take a crowdfie:  
 
 
 
  
  Cheering up: VJ Benafsha
 
 
 
  
  Students cheered from the hostel’s balconies
 
 
 
 A lot of whistling and cheering was also reserved for the celeb guests at the event. Contestants from Splitsvilla – Martina Thariyan and Sreeradhe Khanduja – along with VJ Benafsha were cheering for the players from the stands, while VJ Clince hosted the evening. “The energy here is unbelievable. I'm totally loving the vibe. These guys know how to have fun,” said Martina, while clicking a selfie with her fans. Singer and actress Sophie Choudry was also present as the guest of honour during the final match. Ankit, a first-year student, said, “I love the carnival-like atmosphere of the event. More than just the games, it’s the party ambience I liked. It was a fun weekend on campus.”
 
 
