BHOPAL: An SAF constable who was posted at Raj Bhavan masterminded the Rs 13.16 lakh ATM heist in Piplani on September 22. Police made this explosive disclosure on Wednesday after arresting the cop, 22-year-old Pan Singh Gautam, and his childhood friend, Surjeet Singh Pawaiya, who worked for an agency that handles ATMs.

 It was Pan Singh’s face under a hoodie that was captured on   that night but police were flummoxed because none of the bank staff or agency employees recognized him. When cops pulled CCTV footage of nearby areas, Surjeet was immediately identified and seen standing with the ‘hoodie suspect’. Police say the duo has admitted to the theft, saying they wanted to buy a car. Most of the money has been recovered. 
 
 Pan, who lives in the SAF barracks near old  , is only a year into service. Investigating officer SKS Chouhan said Pan came in contact with Surjeet, his former schoolmate from Bhind, when he was posted to Bhopal after training. On May 2, Surjeet joined a firm that manages ATMs and was made cash custodian. It was then that Pan gave him the idea of stealing from an ATM, say police. On June 23, Surjeet switched firms with the same job profile.
 
 They did a recce of several ATMs for two months and selected the one at Piplani because it was unguarded, say police. Each cash van has two ‘custodians’ and both have half the password. This password is supposed to be changed every month, but it hadn’t been done for six months, SI Chouhan said. Surjeet knew that this and had got the other half of the password from a former colleague.
 
 Surjeet was wary of the CCTV cameras and started training Pan to break into the ATM, say police. On September 22, they went to Piplani on a bike and stopped a little distance from the ATM. Pan entered the ATM around 11.30pm but as soon as he tried to open it, the hooter went off. Terrified, the cop ran out to Surjeet.
 
 They waited for some time to see if police respond to the alarm, but the siren was drowned out by music from a puja pandal nearby. When nothing happened for 15 minutes, Surjeet borrowed Pan’s hoodie sweatshirt and went to the ATM. He opened the cash vault with the password, took the money, and they fled on their bike. Surjeet had replaced everything so perfectly that police didn’t suspect anything when they checked on the ATM the next morning, SI Chouhan said. It was at 11am that a firm employee filed an FIR.
 
 Pan was caught on ATM cameras but nobody from the agency could recognize him. Surjeet hid his face in the hoodie and couldn’t be recognized, either. Surjeet calmly answered questions on Saturday when police called all former and current employees of the agency who knew the password. He claimed he was elsewhere during the heist. But when police scanned CCTV footage from nearby cameras they spotted Surjeet and Pan standing near their bike close to the ATM.
 
 “Their location was further established by their call details,” said Chouhan. They were tracked down and nabbed by the crime branch from Surjeet’s house in Sai Board Colony. “Both confessed to robbing Rs 13.9 lakh. Pan Singh spent Rs 6,500 on a mobile. The rest of the money — including Rs 1.26 lakh they loaned a shopkeeper — were recovered,” said Chouhan. 
 
 The SI said that agency employees avoid changing passwords because they are fined Rs 40,000 if they enter the wrong password or forget their password to unlock the ATM. DIG Santosh Kumar Singh said the responsibility of changing passwords was with the agency but they did not conduct an audit. Ideally, the agency should have reported about the breach immediately but they informed in the morning, he said. Both the firms have been served notices and a case will be registered against them if their reply is not satisfactory, police say.
 
 
