MUMBAI: A four-member committee has replaced the previous panel of three doctors, which included two orthopaedic surgeons, to probe the racket of unlicensed medical implants being sold out of   in Crawford market. JJ Hospital’s head of microbiology department Dr Abhay Chowdhary will head the new panel that is expected to submit its report within eight days.

 Dean of JJ Hospital Dr TP Lahane, who constituted the new committee, said, “This committee will be totally unbiased.” Besides Chowdhary, surgeon Dr Ajay Bhandarwar, JJ’s head of orthopaedic department Dr Eknath Pawar and medical superintendent of St George Dr Madhukar Gaikwad will be a part of the inquiry.
 
 The three-member panel had already started questioning a few staffers of GT Hospital when they were informed about the new committee.
 
 The   (FDA) had raided GT Hospital on February 2 and caught  , brother of an orthopedic surgeon, staying on the hospital premises and selling implants to patients of JJ Group of hospitals without licence. Pimpale purchased the implants from a Nanded-based firm which too was operating without a licence. 
 
 The investigation trail has led the FDA to five more districts. An FDA official said the department has been carrying out raids across centres in Aurangabad, Latur, Chandrapur, Yavatmal, Beed and Mumbai. In the city, a pharmacy in Dongri and another store right opposite the KEM Hospital in Parel have come under scrutiny.
 
 In Parbhani, the FDA team seized implants worth a Rs 1 crore from two firms that did not have licence. In Chandrapur, a team carried out a raid on the house of Jayant Murtizapurkar, owner of Shri Krishna Enterprises, a firm that does hold any drug sale licence. They seized a total of 15 types of orthopaedic implants of nearly a lakh from his house. In Nagpur, raids in the unlicensed premises of Arun Enterprises yielded unlicensed implants costing about Rs 30,000.
 
 “We are yet to find any instance of a manufacturer making implants without licence. However, many unlicensed sellers are involved in the business. The raids are likely to continue for a while,” said an FDA official.
 
 
