She hails from purono Kolkata, Sovabazar to be precise. But there’s nothing old world about  , when we meet her on a rainy afternoon for a chat. Dressed smartly in jeans, boots and a sexy jacket, the 28-year-old singer spoke to us about leaving Kolkata for Mumbai, wanting to sing for AR Rahman and   and how her song Beparwah from   is making waves. Excerpts:

 
 
 I am a Sovabazar girl who left for Mumbai nine years back with the dream of becoming a singer. As a child, I was a student of Sipra Basu and my great-grandmother was a thumri singer. There was music all around me and I developed an ear for it. My mother used to let me practise with small bands before I left for Mumbai to learn music. I enrolled for a year’s residential course, where I was taught Indian classical and contemporary music. They also taught me Urdu diction, which helped me develop as a singer. I can proudly say I am a versatile singer who can render any type of song!
 
 
 During that time, I got to know big names like Shaan,  ,   and got a chance to perform with them on stage. So, I decided to stay back. I love to do stage performances, as singing in front of thousands gives me a different high. My first stage performance was with Sukhwinder, where I sang Beedi jalaile, and the response was fascinating. As a child I used to perform at birthday parties, but performing in such huge shows was like swimming in an ocean. Though I have performed with all the leading singers, but I love to perform with Sukhwinder the most, because his energy levels are very high.
 
 
 
 After struggling for nine years and performing with many singers, I finally got a break with Beparwah. The industry doesn’t accept you as a singer till you get a big break! So, I guess my journey has begun with this song; or rather my struggle has just started. Now I have to battle it out and hold on to my position. I thank music directors Gourabh and Roshan for this break. The peppy song has been sung by Siddharth Basu and me. Tiger Shroff even shared the link of the song on Twitter. In fact, the music director duo asked me to come over to record a song and I had no idea for which film it was. In Bollywood, there is a high chance of your song getting scratched after the recording. So, after a month, when they told me my song had got selected in Munna Michael, I couldn’t believe it. That first recorded version was the take which featured in the film! So, it was a one-take okay!
 
 
 Yes, but I don’t know for which film. Savvy is the music director. I’ve sung for this film called Rakto earlier. The music scene in Tollywood is quite happening now and I want to be a part of it.
 
 
 
 Well, it depends on my mood. On some days, it’s for an hour and on other days, it is just for five minutes. But I hear a lot of music, be it eastern or western.
 
 
 
 I try to, as I get to meet so many friends and family members then. It’s like a reunion.
 
 
 
