PUNE: The   has supported the government’s proposal to impose   and sugar-sweetened beverages.

 India has seen a tremendous rise in youngsters suffering from lifestyle disorder, like obesity, which leads to complications such as poor heart functioning, hypertension, uncontrolled diabetes, high cholesterol as well as a decline in a person’s fertility potential. Higher tax, experts say, will help encourage healthier dietary choices.
 
 Pramod Jog, national president of the   (IAP)said, “Imposing higher taxes will attract public attention and eventually help sensitize consumers to stay away from such unhealthy food choices.”
 
 Gynaecologist and infertility expert Manish Banker, co-chairman and medical director of Nova IVI Fertility Clinic, added, “Nearly 38%-66% women in India with   (PCOS) are overweight, which ultimately leads to metabolic complications. Obese men tend to face problems such as reduced libido or erectile dysfunction.”
 
 “Changing lifestyle, reduced time spent in physical activities, high calorie diet or consumption of unhealthy food on a regular basis collectively contribute to obesity. With India being reported as the third most obese country in the world, such laws by the government are welcomed in order to keep the increasing obesity rate under control,” Banker said.
 
 Sharing the view, founder and chief executive officer of NephroPlus Vikram Vuppalasaid, “Measures like imposing higher tax will promote and encourage young India to lead a healthier life. We see an increase in the obesity rate among the youth and school-going students by 20%. This calls for an immediate attention to tackle the unconstructive trend. Apart from various other health risks, obesity remains the number one preventable risk factor for chronic kidney disease.” 
 
 At the same time, some of experts feel that the government needs to take up further initiatives to sensitize the masses and only imposing higher tax may not serve the purpose.
 
 “Imposing higher tax on junk will not solve the problem. I feel people will still buy such products. The government should take up more initiatives on branding these high sugar, transfats, empty calories more boldly on the pack, more awareness among consumers on what they are actually consuming and how much calorie percentage of the day with the nutrients they are consuming,” said consultant nutritionist and registered dietitian Geeta Dharmatti, national executive member of Indian Dietetic Association (IDA).
 
