ALWAR: Local villagers and   (STR) guards are at loggerheads over the ‘intrusion’ of villagers into the STR area.

 Villagers are letting their cattle graze in Sariska, which is objected to by forest guards. Over the past few days, the situation has become worse and clashes have broken out between the two groups.
 
 Forest officials claimed that the villagers had beaten up guards several times after they objected to villagers grazing cattle.
 
 During monsoon, a large number of villagers come to   as it turns into a lush green field conducive for cattle grazing. They settle down in the area and construct makeshift huts. 
 
 The forest officials are worried because the intrusion of villagers and their cattle into Sariska disturbs the normal life of tigers and other animals in the reserve. They are apprehensive that tigers may leave Sariska’s core area if this continues in the area.
 
 The Sariska administration took stern action against illegal occupants and removed their makeshift huts and also chased them out of the STR area near Dabli village.
 
 The clashes between forest officials and illegal occupants are not being frequently reported and so even the police do not file cases until the violence becomes severe.
 
 On Wednesday, forest guards were allegedly beaten up in Sirawas village. Despite the violence, the   police station did not initially register a complaint. But, when senior forest officials got involved, the police registered the complaint.
 
 With officials finding it difficult to keep illegal occupants away from Sariska, the forest department has now appealed to the district collector to impose Section 144 in the area.
 
 Deputy conservator of forest (Sariska) Balaji Kari wrote to district collector and informed him about increasing intrusions by villagers into Sariska for grazing cattle over the past four years and frequent clashes with forest guards.
 
 He said complaints have already been registered with the police and called for imposing Section 144 to maintain law and order in the area.
 
 According to Kari, the illegal grazing of cattle in Sariska area makes tigers restless.
 
 During monsoon, officials appeal to district collector to impose Section 144 to prevent illegal activities in the forest. They want Section 144 to be imposed in Rotkyala, Umri Tiraha, Siliberi, Bhaisota and Kabri from July.
 
 Kari said that though they had appealed many times, the district administration does not take any action to impose Section 144.
 
 
