We have often heard of  , stalking, fishing and other instances of misuse of social media. As India takes its definite steps towards digital money transactions, threats of   crime still looms around. In the incidences of cyber crime faced by youngsters, it has been often observed that the wrongdoers are also young. Therefore, city’s first ever college   is comprised students who teach their counterparts to be safe online. “Not just that, they also make youngsters realise pitfalls of committing a cyber crime,” shares VN Suryawanshi, principal of   where the student cyber cell has been established. 

  “The students of our computer-science and electronics departments were already working with some of the cyber awareness programmes. Then on the suggestion of   police commissioner Ravindra Singhal and in association with a private company, we decided to give an organisational form to our initiative by forming a cyber cell,” informs Ashish Chourasiya, college professor and head of the student cyber cell. 
 
  
  The students of the cyber cell are trained by police commissionerate. “There is a core committee of senior police officials, social activists and journalist who impart training to us,” say Neha Pathak, a FY BSc student. “There were many things that we didn’t know before. It was the first time we learnt about cyber fishing, stalking, bulling and much more. Now I can proudly say that at least students in this campus are equipped with measure to fight cyber crime,” she further adds. 
 
  
  The members of cyber cell also work as a pressure group for college students. “One friend was a cyber crime. The person who committed crime against her was also a girl and they were friends. One day they had a fight and her female friend posted some photos of her with her number and ill message. It all ended very badly. If cyber cell would’ve been in existence back then, the situation would have been handled differently. Now as the members of cyber cell, we help our counterparts who are in trouble but at the same time we also work as a pressure group for those who might want to misuse social media,” shares Devashree Hingane, an Msc student. 
