AHMEDABAD: The multi-agency probe into India's biggest ever heroin haul of 1,500kg - worth more than Rs3,500 crore in the international market - seized from a merchant ship by the   off the Porbandar coast has revealed a tale of greed and betrayal. 

 The ship's captain double-crossed his bosses and diverted the vessel to Mumbai from the pre-decided destination of Egypt to earn Rs50 crore, instead of Rs5 crore promised for delivering the shipment to Egypt. 
 
 Top sources in the   said Supreet Tiwari, the captain of Hennry (alias Prince-II), ended up in the Coast Guard's net after he fell prey to the offer of a bonanza from a Mumbai-based sailor, Vishal Yadav, for diverting the heroin consignment to Mumbai. 
 
 "The drugs were to be shipped to Egypt according to the directions of the vessel's owner, Syed Al Morani, a Dubai-based businessman, who is originally from Iran and works for Pakistan's ISI," said a senior ATS officer. "Tiwari was, however, swayed by Vishal Yadav's offer. Yadav placed a call to Tiwari when the ship was mid-sea and told him that the drugs could be sold locally for Rs150 crore. He vowed to give Tiwari one-third of the earnings. This was ten times the amount Tiwari was to get for making the trip to Egypt."
 
 Tiwari was drawn in, and he roped in his brother Surjeet to collect the money from Mumbai. 
 
 "Sailing towards Mumbai, Tiwari realised that he did not have enough fuel. He contacted Yadav, who, in turn, asked his accomplice, Irfan Shaikh, to contact a ship-breaking agent at Alang in  ," the ATS officer said. "A deal was struck at Rs15 lakh to dismantle the ship. The haul was to be secreted from Alang. The agent had no inkling about the large cache of heroin in the ship." As the ship approached the Gulf of Khambhat, it was located by Coast Guard's Dornier and later intercepted following an intelligence input.
 
 Yadav's interrogation has revealed that he had no intention of parting away with the big bucks and had planned to ditch Tiwari once the consignment reached Mumbai. ATS sources said during Tiwari's interrogation, it came to light that a secret compartment had been made in the diesel tank of the ship at Al Morani's instruction at Chabahar in Iran.
 
 ATS officers said all the eight crew members - Supreet Tiwari, Monish Kumar, Manish Patel, Sanjay Yadav, Divyesh Kumar, Dinesh Kumar, Vinay Yadav and Anurag Sharma - have been arrested. ATS has also detained Tiwari's brother Surjeet, Vishal Yadav and Irfan Shaikh, and a man, identified as Vijay, whose phone was used to contact Tiwari. 
 
