SHIMLA: The Union government has approved Rs 5.24 crore e-governance project for   under good governance and best practices in India which would lay the foundation for online examination (paperless exam) in the state. The project would be launched within a week. K S Tomar, chairman,  , said the project approved by the department of electronics and information technology (DEIT), Union ministry of communications and IT, is a pilot project.

 He said as per the communication received from joint secretary R K Sudhanshu, Union IT ministry, the project will be implemented in three years and would be replicated in all state public service commissions (PSCs) in India.
 
 He said the pilot project would focus on providing online services to applicants, conducting online study material, speedy disposal of departmental promotions committees cases, establishment of facilitation and database centres and use of cloud technology.
 
 He said the project would be executed with the assistance of National Institute of Electronics and Information Technology (NIELIT), which falls under the Union IT ministry, and NIC which had prepared the detailed project report (DPR) submitted to the ministry.
 
 He said the World Bank-funded project was cleared by working group of senior officials of Union IT ministry and HP Public Service Commission would create its name in the history as other PSCs would be provided modules which would be laced with ‘cloud enabled configurable multi-tenant system' to improve functioning and efficiency of the commissions.
 
 "Similarly, a delegation of standing committee led by me recently visited   to study the online examination system which needs to be implemented on mandatory bases by all PSCs," he added.
 
 He said the commission visualizes total work flow-based functioning in its various branches with web-based interfaces to share the information with the client organizations. For the benefit of aspiring candidates, the commission plans to set up a facilitation centre as well as a database of examination held, syllabus prescribed for various examinations, sample question papers and in some cases, wherever possible, shareable database of material for exercises by the candidates in their places, he said.
 
