PHULIA (NADIA): A first-year student of a Nadia college, whose father is an auto driver, returned a bag full of currency notes amounting to Rs 1 lakh to its owner on Sunday, a day after picking it up in front of her shop at   in Nadia’s Santipur.

 The humble roots of Kuheli Basak (20) couldn’t lure her to take the money home, which is not far from her shop. After spotting the bag falling off a two-wheeler that whizzed past her shop, Kuheli picked it up and found it contained a large number of Rs 500 and Rs 2,000 notes along with some receipts and documents. Counting the notes, she found the sum amounted to Rs 1 lakh. From the documents, she learnt the bag and its contents belonged to someone named Ujjal Haldar. Examining the receipts, she was certain Ujjal was a trader but had no other details about him. She kept the bag in her shop on Saturday night.
 
 Ujjal, the biker from whose shoulders the bag had fallen off, runs a garment shop in Phulia’s Kalitala adjoining Mathpara. On reaching his shop, he turned frantic on realising he had lost the bag with Rs 1 lakh. Fortunately for him, word spread from Mathpara that a shopowner there had picked up a bag that had fallen off a bike. 
 
 On learning this by word of mouth, Ujjal reached Kuheli’s shop on Sunday morning. He introduced himself as a garments store owner in the neighbouring locality. To Kuheli, this was enough to convince her that he was the owner of the bag. She returned the bag with the money to an extremely grateful Ujjal.
 
 A BA student of  , Kuheli set up a photocopy and computer printout shop at Phulia’s Mathpara in December 2016 with the Rs 25,000 she received before last year’s Puja as a beneficiary of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Kanyashree scheme. Her father   drives a three-wheeler and mother Aduri is a homemaker. “She has done us proud with her display of honesty,” said Kalu, which was echoed by his wife and brother (Kuheli’s uncle Gokul Basak). Kuheli’s younger brother Koushik is a Class-X student of Phulia Soksha Niketan. “I dream of making it big in business walking the honest path,” said Kuheli.
 
