LUCKNOW: In a departure from its earlier claim of having a direct fight with the   in the UP assemby election, national   chief   claimed that the party had a direct fight with the BSP. He also claimed that the BJP would win over 50 seats out of the 73 seats that went to poll in the first phase. 

 Shah further said that the BJP's fight in the phase II would directly be with the  . Together, the BJP would get more than 90 seats in the first two phases, Shah emphasised. He, however, said that in rest of the phases, the BJP would have a direct contest with the Samajwadi Party, a claim that the BJP leadership has been making for the past few months. The move was then seen as the BJP's bid to polarise the voters. 
 
 However, addressing a press conference in Lucknow on Sunday, Shah's statement that BJP was in direct contest with the BSP, in the phase I and would also remain so in Phase II, came as a surprise and is being seen as BJP thinktanks bid to divide minority votes between SP and BSP in a bid to consolidate Hindu votes in BJP's favour. 
 
 Interestingly, other than claiming a direct contest with the BSP in the first two phases, Shah's attack remained pointed towards SP government and its alliance with Congress. He said that the alliance was not on ideological lines and it was an unholy tie-up. 
 
 Nothing was new with the Samajwadi Party electoral strategy, almost all the sitting MLAs have been repeated by the Samajwadi Party, Shah said and added that SP has a feeling that it was losing election that is why it devoid around 100 workers from contesting election by giving over 100 seats to Congress. 
 
 Replying to a question on change in claim about BJP's direct contest with the BSP, Shah said now after the first phase of election, he has a feeling that BJP is in direct contest with the BSP and same will be the case in the second phase also. Citing reason, he said that since both the phases are being held in the same region, the BJP believes it would have a direct contest with the BSP and later on it would have direct contest with the SP. 
 
 To a question on the hurry to announce Chaudhary Charan Singh Ganna Bhugtan Yojna a couple of days before the first phase election, Shah said that the scheme was already in the manifesto. Since the election committee had decided that the name of the scheme should be decided in Baghpat, it was done so by him at Badaut, the bith place of Chaudhary Charan Singh. 
 
 He once again reiterated that the law and order situation was poor in the state and that Akhilesh has failed to bring "acchhe din" in UP not the Centre. From March 11, the people of the state would see "acchhe din" in the state, Shah further added. 
 
