LUDHIANA: Ludhiana (Rural) police on Wednesday arrested two Nigerians from Delhi for   in the state. Following their disclosure, two kilograms of heroin was recovered from the district. The accused -- 37-year-old Celestin Ikwerta and 33-year-old Edeh Sunday Chukwudi, presently living in Vikaspuri, New Delhi -- run vehicle spare parts export and import business.

 DIG (Ludhiana range) Yurinder Singh Hayer and SSP (Ludhiana rural)   said they were arrested on the basis of details revealed by Balvir Singh, who was nabbed with heroin on May 4. During the interrogation of Balvir, booked at Sidhwan Bet police station, it came to light that two Nigerians were suppliers of drugs and also operated a network in Punjab. They said the SSP sent a special team, led by Dakha SHO Lakhbir Singh, to Delhi.
 
 “The team nabbed both the Nigerians from New Delhi on Wednesday and brought them to Jagraon. During questioning, they made alarming disclosures. A packet of one-kg heroin was buried in a deserted place near a brick kiln at Chowkiman and another of equal quantity near an abandoned railway platform in Mullanpur. The drug has been recovered. They also disclosed that drugs were supplied to them from across the border and delivered as per the instructions received from their mastermind,” said the DIG.
 
 “Celestin Ikwerta came to India five years ago on business visa and married an Indian citizen from Manipur. The accused covered their acts of smuggling by showing themselves as businessmen. A Honda Civic car was also recovered from them, which was used for smuggling. A case under Section 21-61-85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against them at  ,” he added.
 
 They said after arresting drug peddlers and retail sellers, the police have identified the supply chain. They were now zeroing in on the kingpins, who were delivering bigger consignments. Cops were also focusing on the masterminds and expecting more recoveries.
 
 DIG said, “The accused were not just couriers, but had bigger role.” He did not rule out the role of Pakistan’s ISI in the trafficking. 
 
