PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at   has held that   of Goa   (GCS) officers is to be determined from the date of actual appointment and quashed and set aside the report of the government ombudsman and order of 2015 that gave seniority to those appointed at a later date.

 Six senior officials - Maya Pednekar, Varsha Mandrekar, Gaurish Kurtikar, Neetal Amonkar, Mahadev Araundekar and Gaurish Shankwalkar - had challenged the report of the ombudsman dated February 16, 2015, and the order dated September 9, 2015, regarding the seniority. 
 
 They had filed a petition against government officials, including Paresh Faldessai and Sudhir Kerkar. According to the petitioners, the respondents were recommended by   (GPSC) on June 3, 2003. 
 
 The petitioners were recommended by GPSC on different dates between February 15, 2002, and January 14, 2003.
 
 A division bench held that seniority is to be determined from the date of appointment.
 
 Justices F M Reis and Nutan D Sardessai observed, “The impugned order passed by the ombudsman as such would result in persons, who were appointed much later and were entered into service only subsequently, to claim seniority on the basis of the select list prepared by the respondent No. 2 GPSC by applying the 'catch-up' rule principle, which cannot accrue to them unless they have been duly appointed in service to a vacant post.”
 
 A right to appointment of a member of the service can accrue against a vacancy and, as such, it does not create a right to seniority unless a person is declared in terms of the rules to be a member of the service, the bench said.
 
 The court stated that when the petitioners were appointed, there were no substantive posts available to appoint the respondent 3 and 4 (Faldessai and Kerkar). In such circumstances, without being borne in the cadre as there were no substantive posts available at the relevant time, it would be grossly unjust to accept that persons who are already in service would be deprived of their seniority on the basis of the subsequent appointment, the court noted.
 
 In this case, GPSC had published an advertisement for recruitment of mamlatdar, joint mamlatdar on August 31, 2001, inviting applications for 11 posts and 11 vacancies likely to occur in the future. Initially, 11 candidates were recommended by GPSC on November 21, 2001. Subsequently, 19 more candidates were recommended and appointed on different dates between February 15, 2002, and June 3, 2003.
 
 During the hearing of the case, senior advocate N N Sardesai, who appeared for the petitioners, argued that the respondents cannot claim seniority over five out of six petitioners as they belong to reserved category and were appointed earlier.
 
 On the other hand, additional advocate general D Lawande pointed out that the seniority list is based on the merit list prepared by the GPSC. He submitted that the respondents were found more meritorious compared to the petitioners Pednekar, Mandrekar, Kurtikar, Amonkar and Araundekar. Pointing out the service rules, Lawande argued that seniority is not based on date of joining, but on the merit list prepared by respondent 2 (GPSC) based on the 'catch-up' principle.
 
 The court said that the select list prepared by the respondent 2 can be used to fill up the notified vacancies, and not future vacancies. The select list gets exhausted after all notified seats are filled up, the court said.
 
 “In such circumstances, the seniority of respondent 3 and 4 would have to be reckoned from the date of their appointment and they cannot claim it with retrospective date when admittedly they were not entitled to be appointed nor recommendations sought to such posts as there were no vacancies then available,” the court remarked.
 
 The high court has directed that the government shall maintain status quo of seniority for a period of eight weeks after the lawyers of the respondents sought a stay of the operation of the judgement for eight weeks.
 
 
