Ram Gopal Varma has decided to finally start living by his life’s motto — Love doesn’t break hearts; egos do — by extending the olive branch to his favourite filmmaker protégé,  . 

 It was Ramu who had given Anurag his first big break with the acclaimed film ' ', but the duo had been at loggerheads for the last six years, publicly criticising each other’s work and routinely dragging each other to the cleaners on social media.
 
  
  
 On Tuesday, they met with a bunch of friends for dinner and drinks. Spirits were high and they ended their feud by planting kisses on each other. Ram Gopal Varma, who had bid Twitter adieu in May stating that he had become "too predictable", broke the happy news on Facebook. "A kiss is not a sexual expression but the purest form of love, which can happen between a mother and child or the thickest of friends or bitterest of enemies. But my kiss to Anurag is for his sexy mind," he wrote cheekily. This was followed by more pictures through the next hour and more pearls of wisdom. "A connecting point with Anurag is that we both like women and our kiss is an acknowledgement of our common love for women! His lips on my cheek felt better than the sexiest girls’ lips on my mouth. No matter what horrible people think about us, I doubt they will suspect our sexual orientation. We truly love each other," he gushed.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 A guest present at the dinner told Mirror that they had seemed at ease, making fun of each other’s films. "Ramu even told Anurag he could work for his production house again and the two went down memory lane. They were loud and hilarious," added the source.
 
 Anurag, who started his career as an assistant writer with Ram Gopal Varma’s 1998 film 'Satya', followed by co-writing 'Shool' a year later, had first taken a dig at his mentor on the 'Koffee with Karan' in 2014, when he retorted to the question, "Ram Gopal Varma is…" with "Ram Gopal Varma was… what is?" alluding that he was no longer relevant. When Anurag’s directorial 'Bombay Velvet' tanked, Ram Gopal Varma had tweeted, "A director standing by his film that was rejected by the audience is like him telling a girl, 'I love myself and I don’t care if you don’t love me'." Anurag had replied, "I love you too much sir. Now, put that vodka aside and go to sleep. Kisses and kisses."
 
 In May 2015, Ram Gopal Varma tagged Anurag in a post pointing out that he was neither into alcohol nor into kissing men. Anurag offered him a "filter coffee date to celebrate 'Aag' ". The conversation ended with them agreeing to meet   for coffee and learn "how to make a 'Kuch Kuch Hota Hai' ". Ram Gopal Varma had also taken a dig at the production house founded by Anurag,  ,   and Vikramaditya Motwane. Anurag had responded simply, "I love Ramu more than anyone knows."
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
