KOLHAPUR: An inmate of the  , who was taken out on Friday for a court hearing was found carrying a cellphone hidden in his chappals while reentering the jail on Saturday.

 Kalamba central prison authorities filed a case against him at the Juna Rajwada police station.
 
 The culprit has been identified as Pravin alias   (30), hailing from Pune. The Pune police detained him under the Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Slumlords, Bootleggers, Drug Offenders and Dangerous Persons Act (MPDA) and was shifted to Kalamba central prison.
 
 Sharad Shelke, Kalamba Central Jail superintendent, said, “Kharat is in Kalamba jail under MPDA. The was a hearing related to his case at the Bombay high court on Friday and we handed him over to the Kolhapur police who took him to Mumbai. They then handed him back to us at around 3am on Saturday. While checking Kharat before taking his custody, a jail officer spotted that a part of the chappal on his left foot was cut. When we checked the chappal, a cellphone was found hidden in the lining.”
 
 He added that the Juna Rajwada police station was told about the incident and a complaint has been lodged against Kharat.
 
 According to an official from the Juna Rajwada police, a case was registered against Kharat under sections 188 disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant and 120 (b) punishment of criminal conspiracy of the Indian Penal Code and several sections of the Prisons Act, 1954.
 
 “The alertness of the jail officials and constables on duty at the Kalamba central jail gate has helped us detect the culprit carrying the cellphone inside the jail. We had handed him over to the Kolhapur police. As per the rules, it was the duty of the police department to keep a close watch on the prisoner’s activities when they are taking him to court and they must pay attention to each movement of the prisoner outside jail,” Shelke said.
 
 He added that they did not know how the cellphone was handed over to Kharat. “I have sent a letter in this regard to the superintendent of police, Kolhapur to take note of this and further probe the incident to find who is responsible for this negligence,” Shelke said.
 
