THANE: A study conducted by the pollution control department of the TMC reveals that the excessive discharge of sewage water and pollutants are threatening to destroy the marine ecosystem in majority of the lakes in the city.

 Nearly 15 of the 35   in Thane were found to have contained excessive limits of contaminants. The pollution control department surveyed quality of water in all the lakes in the city since the last one year and collated the readings to identify the most contaminated lakes in Thane with Siddehswar lake recording the highest volume of pollutants. 
 
 The water bodies at Masunada, Siddheshwar, Kausa, Diva, Shil, Kolshet to name a few had the highest volume of nitrate and phosphate content that activists confirmed could easily harm marine life inside it (see box). Experts said such high level of metals in the water could produce water weeds easily that could impact growth of other vegetation inside the particular natural body. 
 
 One of the main reasons for the degradation of water in the natural bodies is the rampant dumping of waste, sewage water in them including the feedings of bread crumbs in the lakes. Also, the frequent concretization of the lake walls and bed should also be stopped and percolation of ground water and natural springs should be allowed to keep the oxygen levels intact in these bodies. 
 
 “The dumping of food particles like bread crumbs, floral waste is one of the main reasons for the increase in phosphate and nitrate levels that directly promotes chlorophyll,” informed environmentalist Dr Prasad Karnik, director of Paryavaran Dakshata mandal. 
 
 The volume of total dissolved solids was also higher in several of the lakes that is caused by dumping of debris and pollutants in the water bodies. The Kharegaon, Diva, and Mumbreshwar lakes saw the highest impurities in the contents. The pH value of water at   was 12. The value has to be between 6.5-8.5mg/ litre else it can turn the water quality as acidic or alkaline both which are not recommended, inform officials.
 
 Meanwhile, the quantum of pollutants in some of the lakes was also high wherein the pH at Siddheshwar while the chemical oxygen demand at the Kolshet, Makhmali and Shivaji nagar lakes was also notches higher than the prescribed limits. The high COD means presence of pollutants in the water that reflects in the unusual rise in demand for oxygen or less oxygen available for the existing bionetwork. The biological oxygen demand was also high in some lakes including the Kharegaon, Gokulnagar, Dativli and Mumbreshwar. 
 
 Activists have claimed the administration has been completely neglecting the upkeep of the water bodies in the city by allowing rampant dumping and discharge of pollutants into it. 
 
 When contacted, civic officials said they have started few remedial measures in some of the lakes to ensure they remain healthy and the biodiversity is kept intact using artificial methods of introducing oxygen in them. 
 
 
