NAGPUR: Who is the Prime Minister of India? Or for that matter President? Any school-going children would answer the query without a blink. But according to a book published by the Meerut-headquartered Arihant Publication, for preparation of Common Law Admission Test (CLAT), the President is still   while PM is Manmohan Singh. 

 Moreover, even Chief Justice of India (CJI) is still shown as SH Kapadia even though he retired on September 29, 2012, and even expired on January 5 last year.
 
 These shocking blunders are part of entrance examination book for Common Law Admission Test (CLAT)-2017 published by Arihant. It was being sold at a fancy price of Rs495. Arihant is a national publisher with registered office in Delhi and sales offices in major cities and state capitals.
 
 TOI tried to contact officials at both, Meerut and Delhi but there has been no response since two days. Those who picked up the calls refused to reveal their names while advising to contact on other numbers. A couple of times, calls were abruptly cut off. 
 
 Anjan Chatterjee, a parent who purchased the book for his daughter, was shocked to see the contents when she pointed out to him. “I purchased the book from Venus Book Depot, as Arihant is national publisher and has a good reputation. Its books are being referred to in the entire country. They don’t realize that with such blunders they’re playing with lives of the thousands of students who refer their books for preparing for competitive examinations.”
 
 He then made corrections by hand so that his daughter could read the correct names and postings. “At least President and Prime Minister’s names should be correctly published. I am concerned about those law aspirants who may be reading wrong information and would solve them accordingly in the exams, leading to deduction of their marks. The publisher must immediate withdraw this book from the market,” said Chatterjee.
 
 Besides errors about President, PM and CJI’s names, the book still shows old income tax slabs of 2002-03, while Planning Commission, which was replaced by Niti Aayog, is still shown to be working with Singh and chairman and Montek Singh Ahluwalia, as his deputy. 
 
 Moreover, in the list of law universities across India where admissions are made through CLAT, the Nagpur-based Maharashtra   (MNLU) is missing, even though it was added from this year. 
 
 “In the chapter of non-constitutional bodies, there is no mention of   (NGT),” said Chatterjee.
 
 Reality | Now, the planning commission is replaced by Niti Aayog after NDA government assumed power in May 2014 with Prime Minister Narendra Modi as its chairman and Arvind Pangariya as his deputy 
 
 * Chapter 9 | Taxation | Still old income tax slabs of 2002-2003 were published whereas those were replaced by new slabs.
 
 * In list of national law universities across India where admissions are made through CLAT, city-based   (MNLU) is missing, despite the fact that CLAT conducting body added it from this year
 
 * In the chapter of non-constitutional bodies, there is no mention of National Green Tribunal (NGT)
 
 (With inputs from Viraj Deshpande)
 
 
