Ludhiana: Even as the Ludhiana police has enforced ban on covering faces, city continues to witness crimes involving masked miscreants. On Thursday evening, three   — one of them masked — struck at a house in SBS Nagar, held an elderly woman and domestic help hostage and decamped with gold and Rs60,000 in cash. On Thursday evening, when the elderly woman Surjit Kaur (60) and domestic help Neetu were at home, three robbers came on a bike and struck at their house. Two of them carried big knives, which they pointed to the elderly lady and the domestic help, who were sitting inside the bedroom and robbed them.

 The elderly woman told police: “My husband and both sons were at their shop, while my daughter-in-law had gone to the gym. Around 4.30pm, my grandson left the house for tuition and the gate, mistakenly, was left open. After 15 minutes, three men — one of them masked — barged into the house and pointed their knives at us. One of them removed my gold bangles and gold rings. I was so scared that I gave them the keys of the locker, but pleaded with them not to kill me. The robbers got Rs60,000 in cash from the locker and fled on their bike.”
 
 While fleeing, the robbers also took away the CCTV and DVR, installed in the house. Further, as soon as the robbers fled, the woman raised an alarm and called her son. The SHO at SBS Nagar police station, inspector Mohan Lal, said it seemed the robbers had done a recce of the house, or were known to the family, as they exactly knew at what time the daughter-in-law Ravinder left the house for the gym, and when the grandson went for tuition. He further said an FIR had been registered in this context, and police were scanning CCTVs installed in the locality to find a clue. 
 
 BOX
 
 PURSE SNATCHED
 
 In another case, a motorcycle-borne, masked miscreant snatched a purse from a woman outside her house in Ashok Nagar of Salem Tabri, the same area where pastor Sultan Masih was killed by masked assailants, on Thursday afternoon.
 
 Complainant Preeti Nanda (45) told police that on Thursday afternoon, after she came home from work, that as soon as she reached outside her house and parked her two-wheeler, a motorcycle-borne, masked miscreant snatched her purse. The woman gave him a chase on her scooter, but to no avail. Her purse contained three mobiles, Rs6,000 in cash, an Aadhar card, PAN card, and other important documents.
 
 Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-I) Rattan Singh Brar said the police had scanned CCTVs installed in the locality in which the accused was captured. The police will soon trace the accused with the bike’s number plate, which has also been captured. In the CCTV, the accused was seen roaming around in the locality. As soon as he noticed the woman, he started following her. When she stopped outside her house, the miscreant covered his face with a black cloth, snatched her purse, and fled from there. An FIR was registered in this case. 
 
 
