PATNA: Despite shortage of teachers in different colleges, the   seems to be in no mood to fill up the vacancies quickly as the selected candidates are still waiting for the appointment letters from the department.

 For instance, 170 candidates were shortlisted by the   ( ) in May last year for the posts of assistant professors in the English departments of various universities. Altogether 14 candidates were selected for Patna University, 21 for B R Ambedkar University, 23 for Tilka Manjhi University, 31 for  , eight for Kameshwar Singh Sanskrit University, 18 for Lalit Narayan Mithila University, three for Maulana Mazharul Haque Arabic and Persian University, 20 for Magadh University, 18 for Veer Kunwar Singh University and 14 for Bhupendra Narayan Mandal University.
 
 However, despite the lapse of nine months, these selected candidates are still running from pillar to post to get their appointment letters. The candidates got to know through an RTI application that the BPSC had sent the list of selected candidates to the education department on October 31 last year. “They took five months to send the list to the department concerned, which shows the laxity on the part of BPSC,” said a selected woman candidate.
 
 Another candidate, Vibhas Ranjan, who was selected for Patna University, said they have written to senior bureaucrats as well as chief minister Nitish Kumar, but to no avail. “It has been four months since the BPSC sent the list to the education department, but nothing has been done yet,” he rued. 
 
 What has added to the woes of these selected candidates is the statute for the appointment of teachers (assistant professor grade) for the universities of Bihar. Chapter 5 of the statute mentions, “The merit list prepared by the Commission shall be valid for one year from the date of issuance”.
 
 Recalling the entire selection process, Ranjan said, “We had applied in September 2014 and the shortlisted candidates were interviewed in December 2015. In May 2016, the final list of selected candidates was uploaded on the BPSC website. Now, just three months have left for the merit list to expire.”
 
 Education department principal secretary, R K Mahajan, however, said the process would be expedited and the selected candidates would be handed over appointment letters soon. Mahajan said one year would be counted from the date the education department got the list of selected candidates from BPSC. “That way, the merit list will be valid till October 31,” he added.
 
 
