PUNE: A group of soldiers, including an officer from 2  , is on a 10-day   in the district to motivate youths to join the Armed Forces.

 The aim of the   is to reach out to ex-servicemen of the Maratha Regiment and apprise them about the various welfare schemes being run by the government for their benefit. Though there are several welfare schemes for veterans, but their reach is limited to larger cities while a majority of Army personnel come from rural areas. 
 
 Col Dayanand Sharma, Commanding Officer, 2 Maratha Light Infantry battalion, said, “This provides us an opportunity to revisit their roots and pay tributes to the veterans who contributed in shaping us today.” The expedition team, comprising one officer, a junior commissioned officer and 30 from other ranks, is being led by an officer of the Captain rank.
 
 Covering approximately 550km over a span of 10 days, the team will mainly visit forts in Junnar and Ambegaon talukas. “The soldiers will hold meetings with youths in villages and educate them about the Armed Forces’ recruitment process and brief them on MLI history, thereby motivating them to join the Armed Forces,” Sharma said. The expedition is a part of the overall celebration of togetherness and achievements of Maratha soldiers.
 
 The team will cover 10 forts in 10 days. One of the forts is Shivneri, which is a 17th century military fortification located near Junnar. It is the birthplace of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj.
 
 The Maratha Regiment receives maximum number of recruitments from these areas of the district. As a result, there are a large number of ex-servicemen in theArmy team on trek se areas. Last year, Maratha soldiers had conducted a cycle expedition in Konkan region to motivate youths.
 
 A section of Maratha veterans lauded the efforts saying that such initiative has to be taken on a regular basis so that more youths, who are jobless, can get employment. Early stage guidance to these youths is needed as they are unaware about the intricacies of Armed Forces’ recruitment.
 
