PUNE: Human error continues to be the most important factor leading to accidents on the   expresssway, a year-on-year road accident study of the e-way shows.

 Conducted by city-based research firm JP Research India Pvt Ltd in conjunction with non-governmental organisation  , the study has identified improper lane cutting (30%), over-speeding (29%) and driver fatigue sleep (27%) to be the biggest reasons causing fatalities on the expressway. Infrastructural shortcomings, including absence of lane markings and road shoulders, open medians and stray animals and even villagers strolling on the e-way are some other reasons.
 
 The ghat section of the expressway towards Mumbai, and the section of the expressway after the Kamshet tunnel towards Pune have been the most accident prone areas, the study found.
 
 The report, submitted by the association to the office of the state's additional director general of police (traffic), is based on 155 reported accidents from January to December 2016 that involved 256 road users (240 vehicles and 16 pedestrians) and resulted in 118 deaths and about 300 serious injuries.
 
 Of the 155 crashes, 87 occurred in the Mumbai direction, while the remaining 68 crashes occurred in the Pune direction.
 
 The state's highway police say they are working on reducing fatalities through stricter enforcement, particularly for improper lane changes and driving in the first lane of the expressway strictly meant for overtaking vehicles. According to its records, more than one lakh offenders have been caught and challaned since July last year for lane cutting, not giving indicators while changing lanes and driving in the first lane, almost all through its `invisible patrolling' technique.
 
 Stressing on the importance of enforcing lane discipline on the expressway, state's additional director general of police (traffic)   said, “We have been focusing on this critical problem since the past six months. We have resorted to invisible patrolling to identify errant drivers along the way. The information is then relayed to police teams stationed at the toll nakas who fine them at the spot. Highway police are watching all rash drivers, even though it may seem that there are no police teams at the spot.“
 
 Admitting to the safety hazards caused by infrastructural shortcomings, Padmanabhan said, “We issued a notification to   (MSRDC) to make separate lanes for different vehicles. The request for rumbler strips towards Khalapur has also been discussed. They also need to urgently close all illegal entries for vehicles and even animals on the highway by putting up the necessary fencing“.
 
 Counter measures for the infrastructural gaps have also been taken at over 1,000 locations between August 2016 and January 2017 on the e-way by SaveLIFE Foundation to convert it into a zero fatality corridor (ZFC) with an objective to reducing the number of road accident fatalities from an annual average of 140 to 0 by 2020. The initiative has been taken by Corporate Social Responsibility ( ) support of Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M) in partnership with MSRDC and the state government.
 
 Just plugging these basic safety hazards has helped in bringing down fatalities on the e-way over the past six months, informed Saji Cherian, director (operations) at SaveLIFE Foundation. “From the average death rate of14 every month between January and July 2016, the figure has decreased to an average monthly death rate of nine since August. About three out of ten accidents involve infrastructural issues, so even fixing guard rails and crash barriers, closing gaps in medians, improving visibility among others has helped in saving some lives,“ he said.
 
 At least two to three serious accidents every year involved flower pots placed in the median, each weighing more than 200 kg, revealed Vernon Chinnadurai, the project lead of JPRI's Pune office, which has been working on the e-way since 2012. “The flower pots were removed in June 2015, and thankfully not a single accident has taken place since then,“ he said.
 
 Regular users of the expressway, however, say a lot still needs to be done to make the e-way safe.
 
 Vinayak Salunke, a driver, said, “I recently encountered a dog strolling on the e-way and just managed to avoid hitting him. Trucks don't follow any lane discipline at all. Rather, they are routinely seen driving on the fast lanes, which end up slowing down traffic. Those in a hurry are then forced to negotiate through multiple trucks on the way. I sometimes feel scared driving on the e-way“.
 
