NAGPUR: “You can become a ‘smart citizen’ for a safe and smart Nagpur, by alerting cops about illegal activities in your area,” said commissioner of police K  . He asked citizens to come forward to make the city secure by making persistent calls on ‘alert citizen number’ until the nuisance ends permanently.

 The top cop assured citizens that unlawful activities, including consuming liquor in public areas, creating nuisance for locals, especially late in the night, would be prosecuted.
 
 Two days back, TOI had highlighted many areas where people were openly consuming liquor, with no action by the cops. Many people were having alcohol in front of wine shops, sitting on their bikes parked close to roadside stalls, which serve starters and snacks, without any fear.
 
 The police top brass, who had discussed the issue with officers in a meeting last Sunday, said that after the high court banned   on highways, drinkers had shifted to the interior parts of the city. “We have seen many cases, and received complaints, that residents had to change their schedules following the disturbance due to wines shops. The police department has no ‘right’ to shut down the wine shops, but by taking swift and strict action against those creating nuisance and making passers-by uncomfortable, the nuisance could be rooted out,” informed the CP.
 
 “We intend to come out with ‘smart citizen’ concept, wherein a citizen can ensure his area is clear of  . He can inform us and follow-up on the taken action so that criminals do not continue their activities,” the CP told TOI.
 
 The concept of appealing people to become alert citizens would shortly rolled out across the city by concerned beat marshals and police inspectors, under the supervision of DCPs. The contact numbers of local officers will also be provided to citizens once the concept is fine-tuned, added the CP.
 
 “Those who are alert, enlightened and responsible, would become ‘smart citizen’ for safe and smart Nagpur,” said Venkatesh while elaborating on the concept to TOI. He added the objective would be to curb all illicit activities which lead to abrupt and heinous crimes.
 
 When TOI asked about action taken on calls received from some affected areas, he replied, “Cops want to take strict action, but if we get people’s support by informing about the immoral activities, the action would impactful.”
 
