

 
  Carrying excess passengers, signal violation, invalid route permit
 
 
 Licence and vehicle papers seizure, spot fine
 
 Cops swung into action chasing autos carrying excess passengers or violating traffic signals, a day after TOI reported how rogue drivers accused of violating every traffic norm were having a free run in  .
 
 On Friday, teams of traffic department officers of Bidhannagar City Police camped themselves at key crossings, as well as alleys and bylanes, to nab autorickshaw drivers violating traffic norms. 
 
 The drive began from noon and continued well past afternoon and TOI was there to report the ground reality.
 
 
 
 
 Four officers were posted near   to nab autos carrying excess passengers. While most were surprised to find officers blocking them and reluctantly stopped, some tried to flee. Two officers on bike chased one such   (in the photograph) and nabbed him at the juncture of IA and GA blocks. By that time, one of the passengers had already got off, but that did not deter the officers to book him at the spot.
 
 Cop action: Penalty of Rs 350 under sections of MV Act 125 (obstruction of driver) and MV Act 179 (disobedience of order).
 
 
 
 
 Autos on the Kankurgacchi–Karunamoyee route usually take an illegal free left from EM Bypass to Salt Lake from Hyatt Regency. On Friday, however, they were being booked, perhaps for the first time, accordng to many auto drivers along the route. TOI spotted one such auto (in the picture) who took a left turn from Hyatt Regency and was stopped immediately. “I did not have a clue that this is a no free left zone. I am used to turning here for the past several years,” said the driver.
 
 Cop action: Penalty of Rs 350 under sections MV Act 119 (disobeying traffic signals) and MV Act 177 (traffic signal violation)
 
 
 
 
 As news spread that the cops had started a drive, auto drivers started plying through lanes and bylanes. However, the officers were there too. One such auto (in the photograph) was spotted plying through a small alley in HA Block to escape policemen on the main road. As the officers checked his papers, it was found that the auto had a permit to ply in the Baguiati area and not in Salt Lake.
 
 Cop action: Vehicle documents seized under sections of MV act 192 and 66 (driving vehicle without permit)
 
 
