This weekend, how about hopping onto a train to meet a polar bear, tiger,   turtle and learn how to save the environment while you’re at it? We’re not kidding. All this will actually happen aboard a new train that’s at CSMT ( ). Called the  , the 13-coach air-conditioned train aims to teach people how to adapt to   and learn from past mistakes. And judging by the queues to see it, it’s got a great response from the city. Says Ravinder Goyal, DRM, Mumbai division, Railways, “It is so nice to see this train arrive in Mumbai. Climate change is an issue that affects everyone, so it’s crucial for people to take notice and see how to use science and technology to help make things better.”

 
 
  
  
 Several schools were present at the flag-off and the kids lined up patiently to wait their turn to walk through the themed express. The exhibition is spread over different coaches and each are a delight with special lit-up panels, interactive stations, kid zones, activity booths and more. As one walks in, you are greeted with a pop-out figure of planet Earth wearing a worried expression and a thermometer sticking out of its mouth; its caption reads, ‘The Earth has a fever’ — quite a telling picture of environmental hazards taking a toll on it. As you watch, this message plays out to you, “Climate change is a pressing global challenge and it calls for a collective human action and a comprehensive response.” A walk through the other coaches will also have you being greeted with ideas for greener ways to use transport — such as the need to go carpooling to work, saving the mangroves, panels on shifting weather patterns and how oceans matter to us, the need to plant more trees, use of agroforestry to create a better ecological system and more. An interesting exhibit showed how solar photovoltaic (SPV) systems on rooftops and terraces helps generate electricity. 
  An area filled with used plastic bottles drove home the idea of segregating waste to keep the city clean. Says program officer Amalendu Maji, “There is little understanding still about the impact of climate change. But efforts like this help motivate people to take positive action. Many initiatives here are community-oriented, such as replanting mangroves, so more citizens can get involved.”
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 One of the highlights in this themed train is definitely the coach that has information on marine and animal life. A panel on ‘novelties in the Western Ghats’ showed the different species of frogs here. A large sea turtle sits in glass exhibit with a chart about how many sea turtles there are in India — from the Leatherback to the Hawksbill, Olive Ridley and Green Turtles. One with a tiger relates how biodiversity is used in the conservation of tigers, their history and gene pool, how far tigers move and the routes they use and more. The school kids loved stopping and posing by these animals.
 
 
 
 
 
 
