NEW DELHI: Two small patches of land -a 286-metre-long stretch in Trilokpuri and a 100m plot in Hasanpur - are set to derail Metro's expansion into east Delhi this year. Delhi   chief   said because of these yet-to-be-acquired pieces of land, only a part of the Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar corridor will be ready this year.

 In an exclusive interview with TOI, Singh said no deadline can be set for the east Delhi stretch -Lajpat Nagar to Shiv Vihar -of the corridor. “Land acquisition issues are yet to be resolved, so this section may be delayed,“ said Singh. Stations in this section include Ashram, Hazrat Nizamuddin, Mayur Vihar, Patparganj and Maujpur.
 
 “The other section, from Majlis Park to Lajpat Nagar, will be ready by the end of September,“ he said.
 
 December 2017 was the new deadline set for the phase III corridors after   missed the original 2016 deadline. The good news is that line eight -Janakpuri (west) to Botanical Garden -could get commissioned fully in 2017. Delhi Metro, said Mangu Singh, was planning to open the 38.2km long corridor in phases, with the first phase set to be operational in April-end.
 
 “The Kalindi Kunj to Kalkaji section will be ready for commissioning by the end of April. The next section will be from Janakpuri (west) to T1, that is, the domestic terminal.This will likely be ready by June,“ said Singh. Completion of the rest of the corridor, from Kalkaji to  , is being targeted for September, though the deadline is December 2017, the   chief said.
 
 In line seven (Majlis ParkShiv Vihar), one of the problems is a piece of land in Hasanpur which is yet to be acquired.The viaduct going from IP Extension (Patparganj) to   via Vinod Nagar depot will be coming up on this land, said Singh, making it imperative that it is acquired.
 
 “Without this connecting section, the alignment from Anand Vihar to Vinod Nagar cannot become operational,“ said Singh. Vinod Nagar, where the depot is located, is in tegral to the line, as the corridor will be fed by the two depots at each end of the 59km-long corridor. While the depot at Majlis Park can feed the section till Lajpat Nagar, the rest of the corridor needs to be serviced by the Vinod Nagar depot. “There is no clarity over the ownership of the land in Hasanpur, which we were told was with DDA. It's actually a private property ,“ Singh said.
 
 Trilokpuri is the other bottleneck on the Lajpat NagarShiv Vihar section. “The matter is in court and we cannot put a deadline to this section,“ he said, adding that alternative accommodation for the 380 units that are to be razed for the Delhi Metro construction is being developed.
 
 Singh said the extension of the Central Secretariat-ITO corridor to Kashmere Gate is also going to be ready by the end of March, said Singh. The reason for the delay in the section -ITO to Kashmere Gate -was due to various factors, including a severe labour crunch, Singh claimed that led to almost two-month delay in construction.He added that final trials will go on till February 20. Delhi Metro also plans to commission the Dwarka-Najafgarh section by December 2017. Before that though, the Mundka to Bahadurgarh section will be ready by June this year, he said.
 
 
