CHENNAI:   were killed near Injambakkam on   on Wednesday after they were thrown off their bike and came under the wheels of a state transport corporation bus. The accident took place at 12.45pm and the whole sequence was recorded in a   camera at a shop near the accident spot. 

 Police said Shajan, 20 and M Logesh, 20, who was riding pillion, were proceeding towards a crossing on the busy stretch when the accident occurred. "Shajan, who was riding the bike, tried to avoid hitting a two-wheeler rider who suddenly came into their path. But he failed and both bikes collided," a senior officer said, based on witness accounts and the CCTV camera footage.
 
 In the impact, they were thrown off their vehicle and came under the wheels of a   ( ) bus. The other bikers also fell down but escaped with minor injuries, police said. Everything happened in a matter of a few seconds, witnesses later told police. Shajan was wearing a helmet, but the pillion roder was not wearing one police said.
 
 Preliminary inquiries revealed that the riders of both bikes may have been at fault as they were proceeding in the wrong direction. A few people present at the spot told police that Shajan was proceeding at great speed.
 
 On receiving the information, a team of the Adyar traffic investigation wing rushed to the spot and sent the two bodies for postmortem to a government hospital. A case was registered under Section 304 (A) (death caused due to negligent driving) of IPC. The bus driver, who police identified as Ramesh, 55, will be arrested after detailed inquiry as per the procedure, said an investigation officer. Witnesses told police that the driver of the bus, coming from Puducherry to Koyambedu, made a big effort to avoid hitting the two youths but failed.
 
 Logesh was a second year visual communication student at a private arts and science college in the city, while Shajan worked as a house painter. The bike belonged to Logesh, but Shajan was riding it. Logesh is survived by his mother and a younger sister, police said.
 
 
