GHAZIABAD: In a last-minute rethink, the   in UP changed its poll tactics for Loni and Modinnagar in Ghaziabad on Tuesday by declaring two new candidates for the seats. The candidates submitted their nomination forms on Tuesday before the counters were finally closed.

 The alliance, however, did not make any changes for the remaining three seats of Ghaziabad, where Congress fielded its candidates whom it had named on January 22. In GB Nagar too, there was no last-minute change in the SP-Congress candidates.
 
 On Tuesday, SP candidate   (35), filed his nomination from Loni. The seat had earlier been awarded to Congress by the alliance. In a list declared by Congress on January 22, the sitting vice-president of the party in Ghaziabad,  , had been named for the Loni seat. However, following late-night deliberations on Monday among alliance leaders, it was decided to field an SP candidate from Loni. The name of Rashid Malik, who had been named as SP’s Loni candidate in the party’s latest list released on January 20, was finalised.
 
 In Modinagar, Ram Ashray Sharma (63) of SP submitted his nomination form in place of Ram Kishor Agarwal who had earlier been named for the seat. Agarwal had been named for Modinagar in a list released by SP on January 20. 
 
 On the other hand, Congress had not named any candidate for the Modinagar seat in its list released on January 22. Sharma had earlier contested the Modinagar assembly seat as an independent and on a BJP ticket on two occasions. He had lost on both occasions.
 
 “The Modinagar seat was not in the kitty of Congress according to the understanding reached by alliance leaders on January 22. From among the 41 seats for which we had declared candidates on January 22, SP asked us to hand over three seats. Apart from Loni in Ghaziabad, the seats of Khair in Aligarh and Baldev in Mathura have also been given away to SP. It’s likely that Congress will swap three other assembly constituencies when we declare our second list for the elections,” AICC secretary in-charge of UP, Naseeb Singh, told TOI.
 
 SP now has two seats each in GB Nagar and Ghaziabad while Congress has one and three seats, respectively, in the two districts. However, disgruntlement has been witnessed in certain sections of both Congress and SP. On Tuesday, local SP functionary Dishant Tyagi filed his nomination as an independent candidate after being denied a ticket by his party. Similarly, Sultan Singh Khari, a Congress councillor from Vijay Nagar, who was a ticket hopeful, filed his nomination on an RLD ticket on Tuesday.
 
