MYSURU: The food and civil supplies department which had taken up   across the state has completed the process. Digitalization is expected to reduce irregularities in the   and   from availing the benefits meant for the poor.

 This was revealed by food and civil supplies secretary Harsh Gupta during a press meet held at the DC’s office on Sunday. Earlier in the day Gapta conducted a review meeting on various programmes of the department with deputy commissioner D Randeep, department’s deputy director K Rameshwarappa and other officials.
 
 Briefing presspersons, Gupta said that there are around 20,000 fair price shops (FPS) in the state and they have been entirely digitalized. There are 1,014 FPS in Mysuru district alone. Computerization will not only result in easy and speedy services, it also completely removes manual entries.
 
 “With computerization, the coupons system which is being provided to ration cardholders for availing food from FPS will be extended to rural areas too. Chief minister Siddaramaiah is expected to launch the programme by the end of January. At present coupons are being issued only in around 6,000 FPS. By March-end coupons will reach almost all shops in the state,” he said.
 
 Stating that computerization of FPS had caused delays in distribution of ration in January, Gupta said that beneficiaries should not be worried as the deadline for the issuing of January ration had been extended till February 5. As per the records, there were delays in distribution of ration in around 2,000 FPS in the state. 
 
 Aadhaar seeding
 
 Gupta said the department had been successful in seeding Aadhaar number to ration cards. “There is cent percent achievement in linking of Aadhaar number to ration cards. Nearly 4.10 crore ration cards were there in the state. But after Aadhaar seeding process was completed we found that 65 lakh people were yet to link their cards to their Aadhaar numbers. We have suspended such cards from the list. At present only 3.40 crore are eligible to avail the benefits. But for those who are genuine ration cardholders and have failed to link to their Aadhaar number, the department has extended additional time to link their cards,” he said.
 
 Gupta said that under the   (PMUY) LPG connection scheme, nearly 2.25 lakh beneficiaries have been identified in the state. “The beneficiaries will be provided free LPG connections. Those who want to avail this benefit have to register their names at the gram panchayat offices. The state government will provide gas stove at a subsidized rate. The scheme will reduce the usage of kerosene and eliminate irregularities.”
 
