AURANGABAD: The city   team’s raid at a corporator’s residence to catch students writing a civil engineering   has blown the lid off a major scam, but the institute and its activities were   for the past couple of years.

 The Sai Institute of Engineering and Technology was under the scanner of the Aurangabad rural police since 2016. Based on a tip-off, the then Aurangabad range special inspector general of police Vishwas Nangre Patil and a team led by IPS officer Harssh Poddar had secretly collected information about the racket. But by the time the information and location of the suspects was confirmed, the engineering exams were over.
 
 “Based on specific information, we started collecting details and even did recce of the engineering college running this racket in 2016,” said Patil, who is now posted as Kolhapur range special IG.
 
 An officer privy to probe said that much to their dismay, by the time the information was confirmed, the engineering exams were over, following which, it was decided that the police would bust the racket during the exams scheduled for 2017.
 
 The Aurangabad city police crime branch on Wednesday raided the house of Sitaram Sure, a Shiv Sena corporator from Surewadi in the city, and bust the scam. The students were caught red-handed while they were filling the blank answer sheets of a   exam paper held a day earlier, with the help of answers taken from textbooks and other materials.
 
 Thirty-three people, including 27 second-year students of the Sai Institute of Engineering and Technology and teachers, were arrested from Sure's house. Sure and his son, Kiran, who is pursuing a civil engineering course from the institute, were also arrested.
 
 Among the others arrested were institute director Gangadhar Mundhe, his brother and college trustee Mangesh, college principal Santosh Deshmukh and lecturers Amit Kamble and Vijay Andhale.
 
 Out of the 33 suspects produced before the court on Thursday, three girl students were released on bail. All the remaining 30 suspects, including 24 students, have been remanded in police custody for six days till May 23.
 
 A day after busting the scam, several authorities from the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University and also a number of colleges have come on the radar of the city police. City police chief Yashasvi Yadav told TOI, “Primary probe has revealed that many colleges are involved in similar kind of activities in the city and the role of university authorities has also been found suspicious.” 
 
 The officer went on to state that soon the police would arrest senior BAMU authorities for being hands-in-gloves with the suspects.
 
 The officer reiterated that there was a lot of pressure on the city police, after it arrested the corporator. “Not bending down to kind of pressure, we have not only arrested the corporator but have also bagged his police custody,” said Yadav.
 
 
