KOCHI: The Tripunithura police investigating a case in which a   buried her   near the kitchen of her house at Choorakkadu on April 25 said that the woman had buried the infant on her own.

 The police said the woman kept her pregnancy a secret saying that she had a thyroid disorder. 
 
 According to preliminary investigation, the woman had buried the newborn on her own and there was few chances of a conspiracy behind the incident. 
 
 According to police sources, they are not planning to arrest the woman considering her health. But, a case under Section 318 (concealment of birth by secret disposal of dead body) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the woman. 
 
 The death of the newborn boy hit headlines after the police exhumed his body which was buried near the kitchen of the woman’s house at Choorakkadu in Tripunithura.
 
 “The body was not buried by digging a pit. The woman had removed some soil to keep the body there. After putting the body there, she covered the infant with soil and kept a vessel on top of it. It seems to have done in haste as we were able to see the body right after we removed the vessel,” said S Sanal, Tripunithura station house officer. The woman had told the police that the baby died after suffering a fall while delivering in the bathroom. 
 
 Police said that the autopsy report confirmed that the death happened due to head injury.
 
 “This was the third delivery of the women and it happened abruptly. The death is due to head injury suffered in the fall,” said P S Shiju, Tripunithura circle inspector. 
 
 While acknowledging the claims by the woman’s husband that he was unaware of her pregnancy and that he remained distant from her for over one-and-a-half years, the police said that the parentage of the child or the quarrel with her husband would not have a direct impact on the investigation. 
 
 “The concealment of birth has nothing to do with the parentage,” said Shiju.
 
 The woman had approached a private hospital in Tripunithura complaining of excessive bleeding. She told doctors that she was suffering from thyroid disorder. The same excuse was given to her husband who inquired about her enlarged belly.
 
 Doctors, however, identified that the woman had a natural delivery and refused treatment after finding her claims of thyroid disorder a sham. 
 
 The hospital intimated the police after she confessed that she had delivered a baby. She also reportedly told the doctors that the infant had died at birth.
 
 The police team later found the infant’s body buried near the kitchen.
 
