MUMBAI: The Zakir Naik-led Islamic Research Foundation’s   had a huge impact on   in   who joined   in  , read statements in the chargesheet filed against him as well as absconding accused  . 

 A copy of the chargesheet, filed last month before special judge V V Patil, was handed over on Friday to incarcerated accused Qureshi, a manager with  . He is accused of instigating the group along with Rashid, who was employed with a Kerala school. Qureshi was arrested in the city in August 2016. 
 
 The chargesheet includes a statement by the mother of Ashfaque Majeed, one of the youths who fled the country to join ISIS in 2016 with his wife and daughter. Ashfaque’s father, who runs a lodge in Mumbai, had filed a complaint for alleged radicalization of his son by four accused, including Qureshi and Rashid. “Arshi works for IRF, he knows a lot about the right principles of Islam,” Majeed allegedly told his family. 
 
 In her statement to the National Investigation Agency (NIA), Majeed’s mother said that whenever he used to speak to his friends—some of whom went with him to join ISIS—he would tell them to seek advice from “Arshi bhai”.
 
 “He even used to call his friends to meet at IRF in Dongri.” She said when she asked who was funding his trip to Sri Lanka for studies on the holy book, Majeed allegedly replied, “All expenses will be borne by Arshi bhai from IRF.” He made the trip with his wife and toddler daughter on February 27 last year and returned to Kerala two months later. He left home one day in May with his family despite his mother’s requests. 
 
 “Around June 20, 2016, other group members started leaving home with their families on false pretext,” she said and added her son told her that everyone was in Sri Lanka and would return for Ramzan Eid. However, two days before the festival, fellow renegade, Dr Ijaz Rehman, and others contacted their families and friends asking them to download an instant messenger application called Telegram where they sent messages about joining ISIS and never returning to India. Ashfaq had sent similar messages to his brother. The families filed missing complaints with local police. 
 
 The chargesheet includes statements of youths who had gone to the same institution as Rashid in Sri Lanka. A witness disclosed that Rashid was one of those who was extremely inclined towards the ideologies of ISIS. One of the persons from the authoritative position of the school, Shaikh Navas, had even called all Indian students to the terrace and warned that no one should discuss the ISIS ideology in the school.
 
 Rashid and one more person then went to Navas’ cabin where they had a discussion and he cleared their doubts. However, later Rashid and the person accompanying him booked tickets back to India. 
 
 Another student, who claims to be a big fan of Zakir Naik and who had a few experiences of classes taken by Rashid in Kerala, said, “During that session, one video was played on one laptop in which it was shown that ISIS people were punishing by chopping hands of some culprit. I could not watch that, so I immediately left from there.”
 
 
