CHENNAI: A   who issued a false medical certificate to a man five years after his death is facing disciplinary action, including suspension of medical licence, after a   found him guilty. 

 Ariyalur chief judicial magistrate A S Ravi has directed the   to initiate departmental action against Dr B Anand, a civil assistant surgeon of Vedaranyam Government Hospital, and submit the result of the proceedings to the court.
 
  The magistrate attached copies of the orders he had passed on March 13 along with a copy of the 'medical certificate' and the deposition of the doctor during cross-examination. 
 
 Council president Dr K Senthil said the issue would taken up on Thursday. On February 16, 2016, Dr B Anand issued a certificate saying Ramachandran, an agricultural worker who met with an accident on April 11, 2010, had suffered hip fracture with severe loss of blood. 
 
 He also said the accident caused his death because injuries to the abdomen aggravated the wound caused by a previous surgery. 
 
 During cross-examination, he told the court he did not treat Ramachandran but issued the certificate after checking him. He worked in Perambalur hospital in 2010 and was moved to Vedaranyam in 2013. During another cross-examination, he said he wrote the certificate based on Ramachandran's medical reports. But Ramachandran had died on February 9, 2011.
 
 Ramachandran and his family were travelling in a van when it met with an accident on Chennai-Kumbakonam Main Road in April 2010. Ramachandran moved a tribunal, seeking 4 lakh saying the driver's negligent driving caused the accident in which he broke the right thigh and injured the left foot and neck. 
 
 During the pendency of the application, Ramachandran died and his family enhanced compensation claim to 7.5 lakh. The New India Assurance Co. Ltd, a respondent, said Ramachandran suffered simple injuries that did not cause his death. 
 
 Holding there was nothing to disprove negligent driving, the court wondered how the doctor could have seen Ramachandran on February 16, 2016, when he died on February 9, 2011. 
 
 Pointing out that Ramachandran did not state anything about hip injury in FIR, and that doctors who treated him too were silent about it, the court concluded his evidence was false. Dismissing Ramachandran's petition, the magistrate flayed Dr Anand for issuing a false certificate and giving false evidence.
 
