NAGPUR: In an act of benevolence, Helplink Charitable Trust and other organizations distributed CAFE Kits that contained school uniforms and education material to over 1,000 children at a programme held at   on Saturday.

 Helplink runs a programme called Child Adoption For Education (CAFE) with social organizations and business firms under which children are given kits consisting of a schoolbag, uniform, shoes, socks, slate, pencil box, pencils, erasers, sharpeners, notebooks, drawing book and water bottle.
 
  The aim of this annual distribution is to provide underprivileged kids with basic necessities of schooling.
 
 1,000 students of Jeevan Shikshan Vidyalaya, Vidyabhanu Jeevan Shiksha Vidyalaya, Gandhi Vidya Mandir, Mother’s Convent, Purva Madhyamik Vidyalaya, Mahatma Phule Primary School, Mahatma Phule Kanya Shala, Ekatmata Vidyalaya, Sudarshan School, Shivangaon School, Zilla Parishad School, Nav Maharashtra School, Madhavi High School, Akhil Bharatiya Apang Kalankari Bahudeshiya Sanstha, Snehangan Apang Mulanchi Shala and Shishu Vihar School became beneficiaries of these kits.
 
 The 9th CAFE Kit distribution programme was inaugurated by MLA Sudhakar Deshmukh. The guests of honour were mayor Nanda  , national president of Bharatiya Jain Sanghatana Prafulla Parakh and CEO of RC Plasto Tanks and Pipes Vishal Agarwal.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, Jichkar said, “I extend an invitation to such NGOs to join hands with our schools and help us improve the quality of education that we offer to students. It is not the roads, lights and flyovers that will make Nagpur a ‘smart city’; it is the quality of new generation that we are moulding which will contribute in making our city a smart city.”
 
 Speaking about goals, Parakh said, “We must aim at higher targets and focus on the things that are bigger. We are full of potential and our country has a lot to cope with. We must use our resources and expertise to help mobilize the downtrodden. We must not settle for what is done but keep going and always think that what we’ve done is just a drop in the ocean so that we keep working for the betterment of our society.”
 
 “It was 11 years back when at a school within the city limits that I saw kids who carried their copy and pencil in a plastic bag, and walked bare feet. They used just one notebook for all the subjects they were taught. It was a disappointing sight. That’s when we decided to come up with the initiative of distributing CAFE Kits,” said founder  .
 
 The venue was full of smiling faces filled with joy and excitement waiting to receive their kits.
 
 (Reporting by
 
   )
 
 
