PUNE: Environmental conservationists on Wednesday called for   from authorities in protecting the forest region and areas surrounding   in the  . The demand comes just months after a   (NGT) ordered four developers to stop work on projects in the area.

 Members of Devrai Foundation, NisargSevak, Jividha, Foundation for Ecological Conservation and Sustainable Development (FECSD), and Vruksham stated that despite the NGT order the concerned department isn’t serious about happenings in the sanctuary.
 
 “The biggest threat we see in this region is from farmhouse developments, construction of resorts and hotels, as well as unregulated tourism. Unauthorised bars and hotels are selling liquor to tourists, and irresponsible visitors are littering sensitive areas, such as the waterfalls and valleys, which are in the source region of the city’s water bodies,” the conservationists stated.
 
 The group pointed to activities affecting the Mulshi river basin in Pune district, a part of the Western Ghats. Pointing to the importance of the Sahyadris, Devrai Foundation’s Dhananjay Shedbale said, “The region comprises only 12% of the Indian Peninsula but it is responsible for 58% of the recorded rainfall here. This should be reason enough to protect the water sources here.”
 
 The conservationists claimed that a restaurant at Nive village apart from a fuel pump and a bar in Adarwadi village are both in the 10-km periphery of the forest region. As per law, there should be no development in the sanctuary region and within the 10-km eco-sensitive zone around the sanctuary, Shedbale told TOI.
 
 The group stated that any development activity here will compromise the eco-system services provided by the region apart from contaminating groundwater resource, the most crucial of them being safe drinking water to the city and surrounding areas.
 
 Among their demands is weekly patrolling by the forest department to check any further deforestation, displaying sanctuary signage that was stolen, forming local bodies to monitor littering in the region, and for developers to compensate authorities for deforestation carried out before the NGT order.
 
