CHENNAI: Less than 5% of   who cleared the   ( ) in   will be able to get into one of the 22 government   this year if 85% of seats are not reserved for state board students.

 This will be one of the arguments the state health department will put forth on Monday when it is likely to go before a division bench of the Madras high court against the judgment of a single judge bench that quashed its reservation policy. This year, 3 of 10 students from CBSE and other boards will get a seat against 1 in 20 for state board students. 
 
 Though the rank list is not yet out, directorate of medical education officials said that more than 1,400 state board students and around 1,000 from CBSE and other boards would secure government college seats. This year, 48% of seats are likely to go to students of CBSE and other boards. 
 
 Educationists and legal experts, however, see this as a testimony to the poor quality of education offered under the state board. Students from state board are now paying the price for poor standard of education in the schools. All state board syllabus were taken into consideration by NEET. CBSE students have been able to crack the examination because they are well trained. Once, the quality of state education improves, more students from the state will compete,” said Medical Council of India (MCI)  . “This year, nearly 48% of seats are likely to go to students from CBSE and other boards. Until last year, 2% of seats went to students from other boards. That was fair because it was proportionate to the number of applicants,” said health minster C Vijaya Baskar.
 
 State board students this year were forced to write NEET in which 50% of questions were out of syllabus, he claimed. Students from CBSE termed the single judge order “social justice”. Subramanian S, a parent, is not sure if his son will make it, but feels it is now a level-playing field. “My son’s chances will not be ruined just because he is from CBSE. Like the judge said it would have been a step-motherly treatment if TN reserves seat for state board students,” he said. 
 
 Senior educationists and legal experts, however, said that the wide difference in ratio exposed the quality of school education offered by the state. “Students from state board are now paying the price for poor standard of education in the schools. All state board syllabus were taken into consideration by NEET. CBSE students have been able to crack the examination because they are well trained. Once, the quality of state education improves, more students from the state will compete,” said Medical Council of India (MCI) vice-president Dr Bhirmanandham.
 
 The state selection committee in-charge of MBBS/BDS admissions received 50,558 applications, of which 31,323 were for seats in 23 state-run colleges. The remaining 19,235 were for 783 government quota seats in 10 self-financing colleges affiliated to the state university. 
 
 The committee, which was to release the rank list on Friday, put it on hold after the government order (GO) on reservation was quashed by the high court. Of the 2,880 seats in government colleges, the state surrendered 435 to the all-India quota. Of the 2,445 seats that are remaining, 74% of the top 300 seats are set to be grabbed by CBSE students. Students in top ranks will find themselves a seat in the top colleges — Madras Medical College, Stanley Medical College or Kilpauk Medical College in Chennai. “But more state board students caught up with CBSE students in ranks below that. Over all more than 1,400 state board students will get into government medical colleges,” the official said.
 
