HYDERABAD: With 469 lives lost in 2016, pedestrians were the biggest victims of   in the city. Yet, the requirements of this community seem to be overlooked during the ongoing road safety week. This, despite inadequate infrastructure like footpaths, foot-over-bridges, zebra crossings and pedestrian islands standing out as the most critical concerns of road safety, experts said.
As per data available with the Cyberabad traffic police, 290   were recorded in the belt in 2016 while 1,516 people were left injured.As many as 1,600 accidents involving pedestrians were reported. In Hyderabad, the co unt was 179 deaths and 810 injured in 941accidents.
 
 Such alarming figures notwithstanding, the campaigns launched by the road safety authority and other departments largely aim at raising awareness about issues like helmet-less driving, not wearing seatbelts, driving by minors, drink driving, speeding, overloading of vehicles, mobile phone driving etc. Pedestrians and their safety find no mention.
 
 Transport experts aren't amused as they draw parallels with other countries where pedestrians are at the core of planning traffic norms that eventually help in reducing the number of fatalities. “Worldwide, pedestrians get high priority in transport planning -be it for safe mobility or safe crossing of roads.Pedestrians and cyclists are the victims in a majority of road accidents in Indian cities.Unfortunately , they are nobody's concern even in road safety campaigns. While it is im portant to focus on prevention of accidents, it is equally important to bring pedestrians and walking into the main agenda of mobility in cities," said C Ramachandraiah, expert in urban transportation.
 
 In fact, pedestrian woes have only worsened in Hyderabad over time, say locals. “I usually walk to the bus stand from my house in Ameerpet and also to my office in Abids (from the stop there), which might be less than 1 km. Over the last few years, navigating the stretch has become extremely difficult. It takes about 30 minutes to cover it, especially because it involves crossing the road twice. Each time I have to wait for long before I get an opportunity to cross the road amidst the speeding traffic,“ said Bhavani Reddy .“The traffic conditions are now chaotic and most footpaths are either broken or encroached upon," said Sridhar Rao, another pedestrian.
 
 For few others, the horror of witnessing road accidents remains etched in their memory. “After I saw a road accident last year at  , the fear of being mowed down by a speeding vehicle is constantly in my head,“ said Balakrishna Goud, a pedestrian.
 
 While the pedestrian community agrees that there is a need for more dialogue between all stakeholders, they confess that they aren't surprised by the attitude of authorities who have always treated them as their last priority . Time to make a change, maybe?
 
 TIMES VIEW:
 
 Pedestrians form the core of any city's transport network, but it is disheartening to see them being neglected by successive governments in the state. First, a dialogue must open up to look into the various concerns of the city's pedestrians. Only then can solutions come about. Building footpaths and more foot-over-bridges are the most obvious measures that the government can take on a war footing.
 
