 Pilibhit: A sloth bear allegedly attacked and injured a villager near Pilibhit tiger reserve early on Thursday, in the second such attack on humans in less than a week here. The frequency of the incidents has triggered alarm among wildlife experts and conservationists, since sloth bears are not known to venture out into human habitations and aggressively attack humans.   Thursday’s incident happened at Mala Colony village, a short distance from the Mala range of the reserve, at about 10 am. The victim, Mangal Patari, 50, said he was inspecting his crops when three sloth bears came out of the forest and one of them attacked him. “The bear gripped my arm in its jaws and pinned me down. I was rescued when the other villagers heard my cries and came out and drove the bears away with sticks,” Patari told TOI.    Patari was shifted to the district hospital. The medical officer and an orthopaedic surgeon who treated Patari said he had suffered deep wounds from the animal’s canine teeth, but there was no risk to his life.    On April 1, a bear had attacked a resident of Basantapur village under similar circumstances and had injured him. In that incident, the bear had ventured more than 1.5 km from the forest into the human settlement, where it attacked the villager.    Sloth bears, a vulnerable species, are found in isolated forest pockets across India, and are known to be reclusive. Although known for defending themselves when cornered, they seldom venture into human habitations or attack humans in a vicious or unprovoked manner, as in these two instances, wildlife experts pointed out, adding that the issue needed to be tackled urgently.     T H Khan, environmentalist and secretary of Save Environment Society, an NGO, said that both carnivores like tigers, and normally reclusive omnivores like sloth bears, have started showing increasingly aggressive behavior towards humans. “It is because of this drastic change in behavior of wild animals that we are seeing rising instances of man-animal conflict near national parks and reserve forests across the country,” he said.    “There is an urgent need for a comprehensive study of such behavioural change by a panel of scientists, if we are to prevent such incidents from recurring,” Khan added.    Harish Guleria, head of Tarai Arc Landscape project of Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF) said, “The sloth bear is a very sensitive wild animal. It is possible that unauthorized entry of humans in forest areas has begun disturbing their natural habitat. This might have led to the bear travelling so far outside the forest and venturing into Basantapur, where it attacked the villager on April 1.”    In the second case, however, social forestry officials have not entirely believed the claims of Patari that the attack was unprovoked. “We have not found any eyewitnesses to the incident. Patari’s field is just 12 feet or so from the forest boundary, and it is possible that he had gone inside to collect firewood,” said divisional director of social forestry Adarsh Kumar. He added that because the department had doubts about the precise sequence of events, Patari would not be compensated for his injuries.