MANALI: After a woman had died post the delivery of her baby in Shakoli village of Lahaul-Spiti district last week, another woman in Geu village of   valley has died as she could not get medical help on time. Snow has blocked roads here while extreme cold has made many people sick.

 Main highway connecting Spiti with Kinnaur and Shimla is open but roads connecting remote villages are under deep snow. Geu resident Yankar Chhomo was suffering from a disease and failure to reach hospital due to road blockade lead to her death on Thursday. Although, five other patients of the village have managed to reach the hospital and are under treatment. Two patients from Udaipur were airlifted to Kullu on Friday. Sources said many others in the landlocked district are ill.
 
 Former minister from Lahaul-Spiti Dr   said the people of the district are at God’s mercy. “Death of both the women is unfortunate. Health and other services in the district are in poor state and the government is not taking measures. Sorties too are dependent on weather conditions. While snowfall brings prosperity to the district, the same brings trouble to people, especially elderly, kids, pregnant women and patients,” he said.
 
 Lahaul-Spiti MLA Ravi Thakur said it was painful to hear about both the deaths. He added, “Administration has been asked to keep an eye on people in emergency. PWD and Border Roads Organization (BRO) have been asked to clear snow and open internal roads as soon as possible.”
 
 Emergency helicopter service has continued to carry people between Lahaul-Spiti,   and Kullu. Chopper service liaison officer at Kullu, Yog Raj Dhiman, said two sorties were conducted on Friday and two patients from Udaipur were brought to Kullu. “While 19 persons including a child went to Pangi and Killar from Kullu, 21 persons were brought back to Kullu. In second sortie, 20 persons were taken to Udaipur and Tingret, while 22 persons including a child and two patients were brought back to Kullu,” he said.
 
 The conditions are now improving as weather has turned clear. Lahaul-Spiti deputy commissioner   said, “Power and water supply to the valley has been restored. Things are coming to normalcy.”
 
