VISAKHAPATNAM: Nagavali and Vamsadhara, two main rivers in   Andhra Pradesh, continue to be in spate with the flood situation remaining grim.

 A flood alert was issued in mandals around rivers Nagavali and Vamsadhara. Incessant rains in the last three days under the influence of a vigorous southwest monsoon in the catchment areas of the two rivers caused flash floods at several places, leading to displacement. While people living close to the riverbanks had a tough time with the water swirling towards their dwellings, the state machinery was on high alert to meet any exigency .
 
 Internal roads and highways were battered because of torrential rains and flood water overflowing at several places. Railway tracks on the Vizag ­ Rayagada route suffered damages, causing disruption of 13 trains. Four trains were cancelled. Senior Met officials said Nagavali will continue to receive heavy flood. The situation in small streams and catchment areas of the river in Odisha will ease in the next two days, they added. However, IMD officials said rains would conti nue to lash north AP region and Odisha for two more days.
 
  Though the local officials had taken preventive measures like discharge of the Nagavali flood waters from the Thotapalli barrage in Vizianagaram and Vamsadhara waters from the Gotta barrage in   from Sunday night, high inflows into the two rivers on Monday kept the situation serious. On Sunday night, the State Disaster Response Force rescued a 20-year-old shepherd A Sitaramudu, who was struck in the flood in Nagavali at Cholapadam of Komarada mandal.
 
 One unit of SDRF is stationed in Vizianagram . Two units are in Srikakulam district. Eight villages of Jiyyammavalasa, Garugubilli and Komarada mandals were partially submerged in the flood, said Vizianagaram collector Vivek Yadav . An Indian Navy helicopter from INS Dega also participated in the flood relief operation in Odisha's Rayagada and Vizianagaram by dropping relief materials.
 
 “We released over lakh cusecs of flood water from the reservoir. The flood water level in Nagavali suddenly rose to 1.3 lakh cusecs on Sunday night from 30,000 cusecs on Sunday afternoon,“  , superintending engineer of the reservoir, told TOI.
 
