MUMBAI: Unlike the state assembly where the party with the maximum number of seats gets to install the chief minister, Mumbai’s   are a different ballgame.

 In Mumbai mayoral polls, which are scheduled to be held on March 8, it is not necessary that the candidate who becomes mayor should get votes above the halfway mark of 114 (in the House of 227 corporators) to get elected. The winner simply needs more votes than his/her rivals. Since the   and BJP fought the civic polls separately, it is likely that the two may field their own nominees for mayor. The Congress, which won 31 seats in the civic polls, also seems to be in the mayoral race.
 
 In the current scenario, the BMC’s municipal secretary department has sent out the agenda of the March 8 meeting to all the newly elected corporators for electing a mayor and deputy mayor. Elections to important panels like BEST, improvements, health and standing committees will take place.
 
  One of the officials in the BMC, who has been part of mayoral elections in the past, said, “The elections are presided over by the existing mayor who is assisted by the municipal secretary staff.” 
 
 In the process all the names of the candidates in fray for the mayoral post are listed down and then a civic official goes to each of the 227 corporators’ desk and asks him/her to put their signature against the candidate they are supporting. In the past there have been instances where some parties have abstained from voting or walked out of the meeting halfway.
 
 In 2012, when   (Shiv Sena) got elected as the mayor, 28 MNS corporators walked out of the meeting halfway without voting. Nine Samajwadi Party corporators abstained from voting although they were present in the meeting. 
 
 Among the 190 corporators who were present at the meeting, 125 backed Prabhu and 65 voted for Congress nominee Sunil More. More lost the election. Protocol mandates that mayoral polls must be videographed. Most political parties usually take out a ‘whip’ directing corporators to be present. 
 
 In its Feburary 27 edition, TOI reported that Sena stalwarts were jockeying for positions of power in the BMC. Party insiders feared ego clashes and infighting as senior corporators had staked claim on the two key positions in the BMC, the mayor's chair and the post of standing committee chairperson.
 
 This year, the entire election process on March 8 may go on for almost three hours. 
 
 
