THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The district is set to observe the 28th edition of National   Week from Monday, but it would take much more than a week to ensure road safety here. Thiruvananthapuram has recorded 10% increase in number of accidents in the past one year, indicative of the need for intensified awareness campaigns on road safety. 

 A total of 2,199 accidents occurred in 2015 in the district. The number has escalated to 2,452 by the end of 2016. The increase of 253 accidents in 365 days in a district calls for an effective traffic management system, according to traffic experts.
 
 Transport commissioner S Aananthakrishnan said that the rise in number of vehicles is one of the reasons for accidents in the city. “The statistics indicate that vehicular traffic has considerably increased, which leads to accidents. Rash driving by young two-wheeler riders and the habit of not following traffic rules like wearing helmet are some of the reasons for fatal injuries. The enforcement of traffic rules and other awareness programmes are effectively conducted, but there is need for change in attitude of people toward traffic rules,” said Aananthakrishnan.
 
 The city traffic police officers say that a major percentage of vehicles involved in accidents in the city are light motor vehicles, especially two-wheelers, which almost matches the state percentage. “It has been noted that 90% of the victims are pedestrians and the 50% of vehicles involved in accidents are two-wheelers,” said traffic CI (south) Jayachandran V. As per the statistics of   compiled by state crime records bureau for 2015, of the 3,937 accidents,1,305 accidents involved two-wheelers and 280 accidents involved three-wheelers. 
 
 The soaring volume of vehicles adds to the crisis. Around 150 vehicles were registered per day at the office of regional transport officer in 2016, according to transport officials.
 
 “The driving style should change. It is observed that negligence in part of the driver leads to accidents most of the times. There is tendency for people to rush, instead of leaving a few minutes earlier,” said B Muraleekrishnan, RTO. 
 
 Jayachandran added that  , indifferent attitude of driver towards traffic rules and condition of roads contribute to accidents.
 
 “There needs to be more effective driving tests for issuing the licence like in foreign nations. Also, there should be a system to control the registration of vehicles in the district considering the volume of vehicles. Drivers do not follow stipulated road speed in good roads and the poor condition of roads also leads to accidents,” he said. 
 
 The National Road Safety Week, observed to curb the number of accidents and to create traffic awareness among people, will be inaugurated by minister for tourism Kadakampally Surendran at Kanakakunnu auditorium at 10am on Monday. A series of traffic awareness programmes will be conducted by the motor vehicle department as part of the observance.
 
 Enforcement of traffic regulation,   in association with NSS and SPC units in schools and vehicle checking, distribution of traffic safety pamphlets in junctions and removal of traffic obstructions in association with PWD are some of the activities that will be conducted as part of Road Safety Week.
 
