KOLKATA: Non-resident Bengalis have voted the Suruchi Sangha puja as the winner of the   2017. The runners-up are Nalin Sarkar Street Sarbojanin and Alipore Sarbojonin.

 The “tourist-cum-judges” for the Biswas Sharad Samman 2017, organized by the Midlands Bengali Association, Birmingham, Wales Puja Committee, Cardiff, Indian Cultural Society, Cambridge, Prabashi of Hounslow and London Sharad Utsav (LSU) of Ealing, had to choose the top three and one for the “sabeki” (traditional) category from 14 shortlisted Pujas, seven each in north and south Kolkata. The trophy for the best traditional puja has gone to  .
 
 The unique project is supported by the state tourism department and British Council Kolkata. “Congratulations to all the award winning puja committees,” said Anirban Mukhopadhyay, president, LSU that has conceptualized the project and tied up with Kolkata-based NGO Banchbo so that marginalized kids could also visit the pandals.
 
 Finance executive Milli Basu Roy (35), who has flown in from  , south Germany, found the whole effort extremely motivating: “There are so many aspects to this project. On one hand it connects us ‘pujo deprived’ people with our roots. On the other, it integrates the underprivileged into the festive fervor.” Some of the pandal-art left Roy spellbound. “The Pujas here are absolutely world standard, and not just a para affair,” she said. Harrow-born Jaydeep Chakraborty echoed: “Kolkata’s Puja is on par with the best global festivals. The Biswa Sharad Samman project is a great idea; it epitomizes promotion of Bengal’s creative talent.”
 
 Canadian-Italian physician Marcelo Scopazzini wasn’t prepared for the magnitude of the celebrations, though: “I googled and found out that the city goes through a total closure during this one week. After being witness to the smell, sound and sight of the Pujas, I think the shutdown is worth it.” The massive structures of intricate craftsmanship has bowled over Steve Rochat, a nurse from Switzerland: “This is once-in-a-lifetime experience for me -- something beyond the imagination.”
 
 It’s LSU member Nilanajana Nag’s first Pujo in Kolkata since she settled in London in 2002: “The pleasure is twofold; I get to visit the top pandals, and am also in some way being a brand ambassador, promoting Durga Pujo internationally.”
 
  of Banchbo that works for the poor in Sundarbans is happy to be able to “bring my kids for pandal-hopping along with NRIs.” Santanu Chakraborty of DeColours that’s managing the event reckoned: “The NRI response has been fantastic. We had to turn down several requests this year, but I’m sure of touching the three-digit mark next year.”
 
 The initiatives involving the Indian diaspora “will go a long way establishing Bengal’s Durga Puja in the world forum”, viewed Subir Das of Bhowanipur 75 Palli from where the CM launched the idol-making workshop organized by LSU and SOAS, University of London, through a video conference on Friday.
 
