NEW DELHI/CHANDIGARH: The   ( ) on Sunday called off its plan to besiege   on Monday after a marathon meeting between leaders of the community and the Haryana government resulted in a truce.

 AIJASS chairman Yashpal Malik claimed that demands set forward by the community have been accepted by the Haryana government. The organisation said that they will continue with their efforts to ensure that Jats get   at the central level.
 
 Malik said the demands of AIJASS — which included reservation at the Centre, release of those arrested in the stir last year, jobs for kin of victims of violence, and compensation to the injured — have been accepted by the state government and they will be implemented in a time-bound manner.
 
 The decision to call off the stir was reached “with mutual agreement and understanding” after three rounds of talks between Malik and his team, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Union ministers Birender Singh and P P Chaudhary (both Jats).
 
 Malik said the Jats would now not march to Parliament. “Keeping in view the assurances given by the Haryana government on all issues, we have suspended the ‘Delhi Kooch’ protest. We will take a decision on future protests in a state executive meeting on March 26. Peaceful dharnas at some places in Haryana may continue till then,” said Malik, adding that the organisations agitating across the state will end their stir within five days after the umbrella organisation addresses them.
 
 PP Choudhary, Union minister of state for law and justice, said that the matter of reservation had not been resolved until now because certain posts in National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC) had not been filled.
 
 The government assured the community that the process to add Jats to the category of   in the central list would begin after a new chairman and members of NCBC were appointed.
 
 “The committee will take its time to make a decision. The previous reservation quota allotted did not meet the legal parameters, so it was quashed by Supreme Court. But this time the government will address the issue after conducting a thorough check on the ground,” said Choudhary.
 
 Khattar, however, stressed that he has not been arm-twisted into accepting the demands. “The reservations have been made only at the state-level. The MoS has informed us about the due procedure that needs to be adopted for implementation at the central-level,” he said.
 
 The chief minister said an inquiry committee will be formed to look into the recent case of violence at Fatehabad where protesters pelted stones at Haryana Police, injuring a cop.
 
 The Khattar government has also assured that it will reassess the criminal cases registered against Jats since 2011 and offered relief and rehabilitation to the injured and the kin of those killed in agitations so far.
 
 The Jat community, which is demanding reservation in government jobs and educational institutions, among other things, had resumed its agitation on January 29. They had threatened to lay siege to Parliament and cut off New Delhi from all sides on Monday.
 
 Thirty people had been killed and around 300 injured in the four days of the Jat violence that began on February 18 last year. This time, prohibitory orders were clamped in Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan to stop   from marching to the national capital. Paramilitary personnel had also been mobilised to maintain peace and ensure smooth traffic.
 
 Meanwhile, mobile Internet services, which were blocked in view of the protests, have been resumed in all districts of Haryana.
 
 
