CHENNAI: Domestic structural changes because of   and  , coupled with an uncertain global scenario due to   visa issues, has turned the job market tepid. Getting employment this year appears tougher than in previous years as industrial growth is yet to gain traction. The pace of   this year could be flat or a moderate 5-7% - lower than 2016's 12-15%. 

  While retail, hospitality and fintech show a small increase in hiring, a major reason for the reduction in job growth forecast is the IT layoffs and slowdown in that sector. Data from Kelly's Services shows a 15% increase in hospitality, 8% increase in retail and an 18% reduction in IT jobs in 2017. "Going by early trends, increased hiring in other sectors, including retail, hospitality and fintech result in 5% growth on an average, which is lower than 7-8% that we saw in 2016," said Thammaiah BN., MD, Kelly Services. While PeopleStrong's hiring intent report indicates 7-10% growth in jobs this year, it showed 25% and a 12-15% growth rates in hiring in 2015 and 2016 respectively. The report also says that the growth rate would be lower than last year in the BFSI, internet businesses, IT services and hospitality sectors. 
 
  Global uncertainty, H-1B visa issues and internal policy changes such as demonetisation and the GST are contributing to a slowdown in hiring. "Now the positive sentiment that stemmed from introduction of various initiatives such as ' ' and 'Make in India' have normalised and hiring has slowed down from last year. As of July, we see close to 7% growth in jobs in the hospitality and fintech sectors," said Shailesh Singh, business head (RPO services), People Strong. 
 
  Aditya Mishra, CEO, Ciel HR services, said, "The little increase in hiring is seen in the BFSI sector, with sales and operational roles on the rise. Some senior positions are being filled in the core engineering sector." He sees a 1% fall in overall hiring. 
 
  With respect to salaries, companies in retail, fintech and hospitality have been dishing out similar remuneration or a 3-4% increase over 2016, similar to the raise in the previous year. "However, IT salaries do not follow this trend. Considering an employee who leaves a position, a replacement resource in traditional roles in application development, testing and maintenance, would see decrease in salary by 2-3% in 2017. For new technologies like Big Data, Hadoop and Cloud, salaries have increased by 1.2-1.5 times," added Thammaiah. 
 
 
