Visakhapatnam: Water woes of Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) is likely to be solved in the ensuing summer as the Purushothapatnam Lift Irrigation Scheme (PLIS) at the border of Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts will be in a position to pump 275 cusecs of water from river Godavari to Yeleru canal, which is one of the major water source of Vizag’s GVMC and industries like Vizag Steel Plant.

 The PLIS is being revamped to supply Godavari’s water directly to Vizag city, but due to unavailability of sufficient storage facilities in the city, Vizag is not able to get the allocated 1,300 cusecs of water.
 
 For the time being, the PLIS will pump the water to Yeleru from where GVMC can get it for this summer, said irrigation sources.
 
 “We are ready to supply 1,300 cusecs of the water from Godavari to Vizag city directly by completing the Rs 1,550-crore worth PLIS project by end of July as per the instructions from chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu. However, GVMC is not in a position to store the water as they don’t have sufficient storage tanks or reservoirs. Hence, we will supply nearly 275 cusecs of water to Vizag to its main water source, Yeleru canal, from where GVMC can collect through its existing system,” a senior irrigation official told TOI.
 
 While admitting the lack of storage facility, a senior official from GVMC said they were working in major water storage projects including building five major reservoirs within its limits to store the water collected from various sources including PLIS.
 
 “We have already identified certain places in association with Vizag Steel Plant, Visakha Industrial Water Supply Company (VISCO) and AP Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) to develop the storage points. It is progressing well and surveys have also been completed,” GVMC engineer said.
 
 The citizens of Vizag and industries like Vizag Steel Plant suffered severe water shortage problems last summer. Operations at Vizag Steel Plant were also partially hit last summer due to lack of sufficient water.
 
 
