KOLKATA: Just 15 days ago,   had called up Sandip Ray. It was one of his regular calls where he insisted on speaking in Bengali. Ray had directed him in a film called “Target”. Puri was curious to know when the DVDs of the film would be out. Such calls were not unusual. Hearing the news of his demise has therefore come as a big shock to the Ray family.

 Of course, the association of Puri with the Ray family dates back to the time when Satyajit Ray had cast him in “Sadgati”. “Baba had watched him in a Govind Nihalini film. He was the first choice for the role,” Ray recounted. The enthusiasm to work in a Satyajit Ray film was palpable. Puri had called up Ray to find out if he could join the unit before the shooting began in Raipur. That was to get acclimatised with the world of Ray’s cinema. “Sadgati” is a vicious indictment of the Indian caste system when an out-caste village shoemaker Dukhi (Om Puri) goes to village priest (Mohan Agashe) to get the date of his daughter’s marriage fixed. The Brahmin, in turn, asks for labour without pay in exchange. The ensuing events, however, turn the table against the priest, who in the end has to give up all the lofty tradition, including that of untouchability. “We had this trend of going to the location before the shooting began. So when Om wanted to accompany us before shooting began, we were OK with it. It was the role of shoe-maker and Om would deliberately roam around in the sun to ensure that he got tanned. His dedication towards the role was unparalleled,” he said.
 
 Shooting for the last scene of the film where Mohan Agashe was supposed to pull Om’s body was memorable. “Om had contacted herpes then. Since Baba was concerned about his skin issue, he had wanted to use a dummy for this scene. But Om was insistent that he would shoot for it himself. Baba argued saying that it would be a long shot and people wouldn’t understand the difference when the film would be shown on television. But Om wouldn’t buy the logic and he still argued saying that since it was Baba’s film, there was always a chance of it being shown on the big screen. Finally, he actually shot the scene.”
 
 Much after “Sadgati”, Puri had come down to Kolkata to shoot for “City of Joy”. As part of the rehearsals, he would practice pulling a rickshaw. “One day, he decided to pay a visit to Baba during his rickshaw-pulling rides around town. With kids riding, he pulled the rickshaw straight to our house. The durwan didn’t recognise him and tried to shoo him away. Thankfully, a pan-wala spotted him and said he seems to resemble some actor. That’s how he got recognised and finally was allowed inside the house. Baba met him and they had a long adda before he left home again with the rickshaw!” he smiled to recollect.
 
 Puri’s full-throated laughter still resounds in Ray’s memory as much as the shooting experience of working with him in his own film titled “Target”. The film was shot in Odisa’s Dhenkanal where the mercury had shot up to a sweltering 40 degrees celsius. Along with Mohan Agashe, Anjan Srivastava and Champa, Puri would shoot in the heat all day and night. The film was about an ageing, modern-day zamindar (Mohan Agashe) who loves to hunt. The zamindar wants to cling on to his declining clout and eventually meets a violent end at the hands of an untouchable hunter (Om Puri) he hires to shoot for him. “While interacting with the crew members, he never made any distinction. Perhaps, that was because of his theatre background. He came across as extremely down-to-earth. He would wash his own clothes and never had an airs of being this celebrated actor on the set,” Ray pointed out. It was delay in the launch of a DVD of this film that had bothered Puri quite a bit. “He would often call up to find out if anything could be done to get that DVD out,” Ray said.
 
 For the television series titled “Satyajit Ray Presents”, Puri had featured in one too. “It was called ‘Mayurkonthi Jelly’. That was one of Baba’s adult science fictions. Om Puri had acted in it alongside Anupam Kher and Tanuja. He did a lot of homework on the script. It was a sheer delight to work with him. We have lost a pillar of acting,” he said.
 
 Year 2016 was terrible, said Ray. This new year, Ray insisted, seems worse. “What a bad way to start the year! Om’s demise is a big loss. He was a sheer delight to work with. I still can’t believe that Om is no more. He was such an intense actor who knew how to hold the attention in a frame. Not just as an actor, I will also miss him as a good human being – someone who treated a spotboy as an equal.”
 
