AHMEDABAD: The   is fast turning out to be the nerve centre of   in the country.   on Friday night busted what could be country’s first ‘illegal call centre on wheels’ run by five   in their mid-20s. These youths allegedly duped US citizens by offering them low-interest weekend loans over phone and made $700 to $1,000 a night. The Crime Branch also seized three cars and several gadgets used by the accused. The accused have been identified as Anuj Giri (25), Abhishek Rajput (24), Saurabh Yadav (21), Deepak Banwari (24), and Vivek Thakur (24).

 They are natives of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar and came down to Ahmedabad six years ago in search of jobs. They have prior experience of working in city-based call centres. “The accused earlier ran the call centre from a shopping complex, but shifted to cars three months ago to avoid police’s attention following a massive crackdown on illegal call centres in the city,” said Assistant Commissioner of Police Rajdeepsinh Zala.
 
 
 
 The accused parked their vehicles on the roadside – two people operated out of one car -- and made calls to US citizens seeking cheap loans. The accused would seek ‘processing charges’ through iTunes gift cards. Once the scam victims put money on iTunes cards, they would be asked to read out the 16- digit code on the back of the card. Using this code the scammers would obtain cash in a quick, untraceable way. After redeeming the cards, they would cut off the contact with victims. The person redeeming the cards would then transfer the amount to the call centre’s bank account via netbanking.
 
 The accused used ‘MagicJack’ application which enables making calls without revealing the number or location. “We are carrying out further investigation to find out where from they got the data of victims and an application like Magic Jack, and who did they employ to process 16-digit iTunes gift cards (and collect the money),” Zala said. Suspicious movement of cars It was on Friday evening that cyber cell officer K G Chaudhary and his staff received a tip-off about the mobile call centre operating in east Ahmedabad and on Sardar Patel Ring Road.
 
 During patrolling, the cops found three cars moving around suspiciously near Sadbhavnanagar in Vatva. The police questioned five occupants of these cars, but they failed to provide satisfactory answers. The accused were later arrested and nine cellphones, three WiFi devices and a laptop seized from them. Dr Rajdeepsinh Zala, ACP, Cyber Cell said, “The accused are residents of Vatva and operated the mobile call centres in Vento, Swift Dzire and XUV 500 cars. They lived in different societies and on rent. Earlier they operated out of a complex but following a crackdown on illegal call centres, they became more alert and used vehicles to run their business. They usually operated between 8 pm and 2 am.”
 
 “They offered paid online weekend loans which is quite common in the US. People take loans to manage their weekend expenses. The accused asked the victims seeking loans to pay the processing fee in the range of $100 to $250 through iTune cards. The were then asked to share the 16-digit code and the card was redeemed for cash without the victims finding out,” he added. Abhishek was the mastermind of this operation. The accused, who have worked previously for other call centres, used Magic Jack application on phone to remain anonymous.
 
 Usually, such call centre operators receive customer data after paying a specific amount. But in this case, the accused sent out bulk SMSes of loan offers, specifying a US-based contact number along with a link of genuine banks that offered such loans. And the victims walked right into their trap by making the internet calls first. “They received success in eight out of 10 calls and earned $700 to $1000 a night,” said Zala.
 
 
 
 Accused revealed that they had been questioned many a time by patrolling cops who had no idea about such a scam. Though the cops often got suspicious seeing the cars parked on the road in the dead of the night, the accused would get away by convincing them that they were making calls to their friends and relatives in the US. The accused would also start calling their victims just to convince the cops who, finding it difficult to grasp the heavily-accented English, would let them go.
 
