PANAJI: The state government took a week to respond to temporarily shut down the ore transportation route through   after the local police submitted its report anticipating a violent protest.

 The report sent to the deputy collector of Bicholim by the police inspector of Valpoi police station on April 12 said that the village population was facing immense sound and noise pollution. This was happening due to heavy movement of trucks, who were making 4,000 trips through that route.
 
 “Nearly 800-900 trucks ply daily through this road. There are about 60-70 families residing at the starting point of these mines. There also exists a school in this area wherein   transportation is done. About 20-25 trucks ply in a minute through this route,” the police report, a copy which was also sent to the office of the   collector said. The report further adds that due to heavy iron ore transportation, there is a high possibility of vehicular traffic in the area. The situation further deteriorated when 117 additional trucks started passing through the middle of the village.
 
 The above mentioned details were sent a day after 45 villagers from Sonshi were arrested and detained in the Colvale prison. Chief minister   convened an emergency meeting on April 18. It was attended by the leaseholder’s representatives, the director of mines and geology and the principal chief engineer (PWD).
 
 Apart from measures such as induction of geonet fencing along the road passing through the village and wheel-washing system, the government also issued a temporary diversion of routes to bypass the road passing through Sonshi. Villagers said that they were detained multiple times before as well, including an incident when 60 people were detained for blocking the road and taken to Bicholim police station.
 
 “We attended a meeting with the mining companies on April 28. The representative of only one company attended. He asked us to submit a list of people who wanted jobs and went away,” Santosh Gaude said.
 
 
