PUNE: On   in Kondhwa, the thoroughfare is well-maintained yet there is scant regard for road discipline. Driving on the wrong side of the road has turned into a major cause for concern among local residents. 

 In particular, a large number of foreigners, mainly students, living in Kondhwa, Undri, Mohammadwadi and Wanowrie are seen flouting road rules quite frequently. Most students hail from Iran, Iraq, Sudam, Oman, Yemen, Yuganda, Kenya and Nigeria. 
 
 On NIBM Annexe road and near Anusaya Lonkar Garden, locals say foreigners regularly ride their sports bikes at high speed, generate loud noise, perform stunts and create a nuisance. The problem gets worse towards the end of the day.
 
 Ajit Lonkar, a resident of NIBM Road, said, “Most foreigners use high-end motorbikes and ride zigzag on the wrong side of the road. When the roads aren’t so crowded in the early morning and late at night, they ride at full speed. Minor accidents are rampant here and riders have also been issued warnings. But they continue to speed without realising that they could be involved in a major accident.” 
 
 Lonkar further pointed out that local residents have made numerous representations before the police to control over speeding vehicles. Local police officials and residents have also written to embassy officials in some cases but to no avail.
 
 Pisoli resident Shridhar Katkar added, “I have seen cops stop foreigners and advise them to drive slowly but they don’t seem to pay any heed. The problem of driving on the wrong side and over-speeding is rampant after 7pm. They don’t care for their own or others’ safety. It is high time that the police take cognisance of our complaints and discipline them.”
 
 Businessman Sachin Zambre from NIBM Road recalled a recent incident, “A Omani national was under the influence of alcohol when he drove on the wrong side of the road and hit my car, which was parked outside my shop. He immediately fled from the spot but we chased and nabbed him. We confronted him with the   footages but he refused to pay a compensation. The nuisance created by such reckless motorists poses a serious threat to residents and it’s high time that the police take stringent measures.” 
 
 Residents are also concerned that in a number of countries motorists are accustomed to left-hand drive and so riding on local roads requires additional effort. “Most foreigners residing here are not used to the change and they land up driving recklessly. Embassy officials should sensitise them to follow Indian laws and maintain traffic discipline,” said  , a local resident. 
 
 On condition of anonymity, a senior traffic official stated, “Only 5% of the offenders, who are foreigners, possess valid international driving licenses. The rest simply get away by paying a fine. In most cases, they rent or buy the vehicle from locals for the duration of their stay here so it is difficult to take any other action against such violators.” 
 
 Moreover, officials admit that the language barrier plays a major factor in implementing rules as well. Another traffic official explained, “We are constantly taking action against motorists driving on the wrong side of the road and over speeding but the problem persists. It is difficult to convince foreigners because most cannot speak English nor do they understand Hindi or Marathi. If we intensity our drive against foreigners, they file harassment complaints with the concerned embassies and we face a tough time handling the situation.”
 
