

  Puppetry is going mainstream and Bengaluru is championing the cause of bringing this centuries-old art form to the fore. Essentially a kind of   or performance arts, puppetry — in its own charming manner — strings together elements of   and storytelling too. The city is now gearing up for the latest edition of the Dhaatu International Theatre Festival, which will see puppeteers from different corners of the world exhibiting their art. Describing puppetry as a grand, versatile and entertaining form of art, festival director Anupama Hoskere says, “This year, we have as many as 16 artistes taking part in the event, who, apart from performing, will also run workshops and conduct conferences.”
 
  
 
 
  According to Anupama, unlike some other art forms, audiences do not necessarily require prior knowledge to understand and appreciate puppetry. “It has a vibrant and universal appeal that makes way for a curious quest. In India, our traditions are contemporary cultures too,” she says. 
 
  Anupama adds, “An art form may become stagnant for a while, but does not actually die out. The way things are practiced may change with time, people and social structures. The goal of this festival is to blur the difference between urban and rural artistes, and make puppetry mainstream. This will not only lend a modern perspective to this art form, but also craft and create a platform for struggling artists from remote areas of India. Participation of international puppeteers means there will be a lot of exchange of ideas too.” 
 
  In Karnataka, Bengaluru, Mysuru, Tumkaru, Mangaluru, Bellary and Belguam are places that majorly nurture puppetry. Shadow and stringed puppetry are the popular types practiced in the state. The Dhaatu puppetry group have had performances in Russia, China, France, Belgium and the US, apart from conducting sessions in various schools, universities and corporates in India.
 
  
 
 
  “We are bringing a special Ramleela performance, which comprises 11 characters, to the festival, this year. We travel to different parts of the country and also work in association with the Sangeet Natak Akademi. Puppetry is a progressive form of storytelling that speaks for a cause. Beti Bachao Beti Padhao has been a constant theme of our shows. Through our art, we want to eradicate superstitions and blind beliefs that engulf our society. Our shows are popular in some places, but financial constraints remain. Last year while travelling to Bengaluru by train, we failed to get seats reserved and so had to keep standing throughout the journey. Puppet shows get lost in big cities, where people prefer big music and theatre events. The payment we get are sometimes not enough to sustain,” says Rajan Kumar Srivastava, a puppeteer from Varanasi.
 
  
 
 
  Traditional puppeteer from Hassan, Gunduraju, says, “Puppetry shows are very popular among in the villages of our district. In a year, we carry out up to 300 shows. Children like comic performances more, while the elderly are moved by kathas particularly stories from Ramayana and Mahabharata. I specialize in leather puppetry, and have conducted shows and workshops in India and abroad. I believe that puppetry has all the potential to go mainstream. All we need is to invoke a little more interest among the urban folk.”
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  Puppets are an ancient and popular form of folk entertainment. Puppetry is said to have originated in 5th century BC in India. There are four types of puppets — glove, rod, shadow and string. Glove puppets are worn on hands, and the middle finger and thumb act as hands of the puppet, whereas the index finger acts as the head. Rod puppets are manipulated by rods, and usually three joints. Shadow puppets are made from leather and the moveable joints are supported by a thin bamboo strip. String puppets are made of wood, wire, cloth stuffed with cotton, rags or saw dust. They are manipulated with 5-7 strings that are tied to a prop-up.
 
  
 
 
  Translating to ‘a play of leather dolls’, this form of shadow puppetry is unique to Karnataka. The first mention of leather puppets are found in the puranas. The earliest patrons of Togalu Gombeyatta were the Rashtrakutas, and subsequently, the Pallavas, Kadambas, Chalukyas, Hoysalas and Marathas of Kolhapur. In Karnataka, shadow puppetry owes its origin to chitra katha or scroll paintings.
 
  The Gombeyatta presents stories from epics and the puranas. The music is dramatic and is a blend of folk and classical styles. The performances usually start with an invocation to Lord Ganesha, Goddess Saraswati or any other Hindu god, and usually begin at night and continue till dawn. It can sometimes go on for as many as nine days. There are over 40 types of composed scenes, where as many as 10 puppets are in a scene. There are a 6-8 people in a group. Most puppeteers are said to be farmers, who believe that a show brings long life to their cattle and protects them from draught and other natural calamities. There are 4-5 musicians, who sit behind the screen and play instruments such as madalam, harmonium, tal, cymbal and mukhabeena.
 
  Some scholars have classified Gombeyaata into three broad categories — Badagalapaya (North Karnataka), Tenkalapaya (Old Mysore state) and Mudalapaya (the border of Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh). This is based on parameters such as the size of the puppets, the stage and the positioning of the artistes.
 
  
 
 
  The puppets are usually made from goat or deer skin as they absorb colour easily. The characters are then drawn on the skin, cut out, decorated with dots, lines and holes, and painted using the mural style. The puppets are supported with a thin strip of smooth bamboo that is fixed vertically along the middle on either side. The puppets have joints on the neck, shoulders, elbows, waists and hips, and are styled on the figures depicted in the Chalukya, Vijaynagar and Hoysala temples. Red, blue, green and black are the colours used for the puppets.
 
  
 
 
  Bengaluru is said to have the largest collection of leather puppets in the world, which is housed at the puppetry gallery at the Karnataka Chitrakala Parishat. The over 3,000 leather puppets have been sourced from the erstwhile Hyderabad State, Mysore State and Madras Residency, apart from Adoni, Madhugiri, Ballari, Ananthapur and Nagamangala areas.
 
  
 
 
  This string puppet play is highly stylized as it adheres to the norms and standards of Yakshagana Bayalata. This form involves wooden puppets that are about 18 inches high, which are adorned with costumes, elaborate makeup, heavy jewellery and colourful headgear that look like those worn by the characters of Yakshagana Bayalata. Episodes enacted in this Gombeyatta are usually based on Prasangas of the Yakshagana plays. Like Togalu Gombeyaata, the music that plays at these shows is also dramatic and blends folk and classical elements. This puppet show is a big draw in the Uppinakudru village in Udupi’s Kundapur, where it has survived the onslaught of social and economic ravages. It is now practiced by a handful of devoted practitioners.
 
  
 
 
  The puppets are made out of light wood, and have joints at the legs, shoulders, elbows, hips and knees. They are manipulated with 5-7 strings that are tied to a prop-up. Some of the more complicated movements are manipulated by 2-3 puppeteers at a time. Some puppet troupes have now replaced strings with rods for easier manipulation. The puppets look different, depending on the region. Those made in North Karnataka are short and slim in appearance, having a pair of legs and hands, whereas those of South Karnataka are three-feet-high and without legs.
 
  - 
 
 
 
 
