   is an unassuming man who has seen the commercial city of   transforming over the 45 long years that he has stood at his bhelpuri handcart, parked in front of the State Bank of India.
 
  “The State Bank of India was originally a residence given out on rent for the bank to start its services, but now what you see is different,” he says.
  
  Gawas, a native of Dodamarg—a bordering taluka of Maharastra—crossed over to Goa when he was just 12, in the year 1967. Today, he is 68 and for the last 45 years he has had Goans eating bhelpuri, shevpuri, pani-puri, ragdda pattis and pav bhaji out of his hands.
  
  Gawas goes on to narrate his long journey from then to now. When he first came to Goa he got employment at   the ‘khanavoll’ (traditional eatery) near the Mandovi hotel.
  
  After working there for four months, he along with couple of other workers, were lured by a businessman with the promise of a higher salary and brought to Margao to work at   hotel and ice cream parlour.
  
  He recollects that at the time, sometime in 1967, nowhere in Goa could you find ice cream that could be cut and served like slices. His employer had already brought in people from Mumbai, then Bombay, to teach his workers how to prepare such ice cream.
  
  To Gawas’ bad luck the employees formed a   within two months of joining work in Margao, and the owner promptly sacked them. “It did not end there; the owner made sure we didn’t get employment anywhere in the town. The moment we were engaged as waiters, the previous owner would send word to the new employer that we would ruin his business by forming an union and we would be sacked outright. Since there were only a few hotels it was easy to keep tabs on us.”
  
  He went to reminisce how for two years he worked on daily wages, whenever work was available, for mere Rs 2 or sometimes, Rs 3. “On other days when there was no work I would eat at a friend’s house,” he says adding that those days nobody would refuse a person food.
  
  At the time, he slept in a carpentry shop at Pedda, Margao. In 1971, the owner of the carpentry shop, seeing him struggling to get work on a daily basis, built him a hand-cart and told him to start selling bhel-puri.
  
  There has been no looking back for Gawas since. “Whichever theatre in Margao was running a good movie, I used to be there outside with my handcart, selling bhel, sev and pani puri. At the end of the day I would park the cart at the municipal garden,” he says further recalling how on Sundays he would go to Colva at 3pm and return at 7pm.
  
  “Those days I used to charge 10 paise for a plate of bhel, shev or pani puri. This way I would earn Rs 30 a month, which was equivalent to the salary I earned at the hotel.” A few years down the line is when Gawas moved to his present location in from of the bank.
  
  He proudly tells STOI: “Some of my customers from 1971 still patronize my gadda and they bring their grandchildren along.”
  
   , who has eaten at Gawas’ bhel puri stall for three decades and more, says, “My father used to bring us here 35 years ago, and I have continued to patronize the gadda, and, in turn have brought my children here. I have stuck to Gawas because the taste of his preparations has not changed ever.”
  
  Retired teacher of the Fatima High School, Nina  , recollects that she was introduced to this gadda by her friend. “It is now 32 years that I have been eating Atamaram’s delicacies, sometime even twice a week. He is like a family member to me.”
  
  Sayyed Khalik says, “I first ate bhel at Gawas’ stall in 1980, as a 13-year-old. Till date I relish his preparations. What is important is that he has managed to maintain consistency in taste. Gawas, too, remains unchanged, a man of few words, but one who is quick to laugh.”
  
    lost his wife Rukmini two years back. He has two daughters and two sons, who are all employed in Margao.
