AHMEDABAD: City police raided yet another  , this one in the heart of the city, early on Thursday morning and nabbed 10 persons, including one woman. Police said the accused would promise US citizens bank loans on easy terms and swindle their money by illegally using their bank details.

 Investigators sent nine   for forensic examination to get details of transactions conducted. After busting city crime branch busted two call centres in November 2016, this is the first such major raid.
 
 According to Ellisbridge police, sub-inspector J S Kandoriya got information about a call centre at   near Central Mall in Ambawadi and a team raided the premises on the sixth floor at 4.50am on Thursday. The team found 10 persons operating from nine computer systems and one laptop.
 
 Those arrested from include six natives of Devbhoomi Dwarka district, including prime accused Prashanti Gadhvi, 28, of Dwarka. The others accused are Yash Vayda, 20; Akshay Vayda, 22, both Premchandnagar residents; Harsh Dholakia, 23; Abhishek Pathak, 24, both Ambawadi residents; and Utsav Dave, 24, a resident of Vastrapur. Sohel Wadiwala, 23, a resident of Danilimda; Prafuldan Gadhvi, 28, a resident of Viramgam; Tejveer Yadav, 22, a resident of Narol and native of Uttar Pradesh and Jolly Singh Sengal, 21, a resident of Ambawadi and a native of Uttar Pradesh.
 
 “The call centre promoters got leads on US citizens seeking bank loans from their US-based contacts. The operators would make calls through VoIP and would display US numbers and offer loans on lucrative conditions. Once victims agreed to apply for a loan, the callers would tell them to ask the person to provide their user ID and password for the bank and transfer a fraction of the loan sought. For example, for $10,000, they would ask for a transfer of $ 1,000 to assure them of good faith,” said Kandoriya.
 
 The accused also sent images of forged cheques to the victims. Once the group got a hold of the crucial details, they would operate the bank account and transfer funds. As the calls were made through VoIP, they could not be traced back to them. Investigators have applied sections of IPC and IT Act against the accused. Investigators said this call centre had been functioning since mid-January and had rented the premises.
 
 Vidhi Chaudhari, DCP Zone VII, said all the accused had experience at legal and illegal call centres in Ahmedabad and elsewhere. “Prashant first tried to operate from his home but soon realized that he needed a team and got together youths from his native place and their acquaintances. We are going through the digital records to ascertain the transactions so far and the roles of the various accused,” she said, adding that the modus operandi is a variant of the pay-day scam.
 
 Investigators said the premises was sealed by   for not paying property tax. The seal was broken either by the owner of the premises or the accused running the call centre.
 
