HYDERABAD: Three persons died in two separate road accidents in the city since Saturday night. Police suspect that drink driving was the reason behind the mishaps. Even as as elaborate arrangements were made to check untoward incidents, police said they registered as many as 1,594   cases across the three commissionerates on  .

 Two private security guards - Vishnu Murthy and Kiran Kumar, both 32 - died and their colleague, Rastarang, 31, suffered severe injuries when their bike crashed into a road divider near Doyen's Colony on Sunday morning. Vishnu and Kiran died on the spot with critical head injuries, while Rastarang was shifted to nearby Archana Hospital for treatment.
 
 "The drink driving angle can be confirmed only after post-mortem results," Chandanagar sub-inspector (SI) P Saidulu said. When the accident occurred, the victims were travelling from Nanakramguda to Lingampally.
 
 In another mishap, 21year-old painter Parameswar died in a hit-and-run case involving an autorickshaw at Nizampet on Sunday. The accident occurred at 12.20 am when Parameswar, along with his co-workers, was standing in front of Sri Jaya Empire apartment at Srinivas Colony of Nizampet as New Year celebrations were in swing in the locality. According to the complaint lodged by Parameswar's coworker Bhavesh Ravi Das, a driver of an auto (TS 07 UA 4762) heading towards Rajeev Gruhakalpa from Nizampet drove in a rash manner and hit Parameswar.
 
 "The victim succumbed to multiple injuries while undergoing treatment at a local hospital. The accused is now absconding. Once we arrest him, we will check his blood alcohol content," Bachupally sub-inspector (SI) G Vijay Kumar said.
 
 Cops of the three commissionerates had made elaborate arrangements to prevent incidents of drink driving on the city streets and registered 1,594 drink driving cases.
 
 Vehicles of the offenders were seized on the spot. At one point,   had to slow down because of the lack of home guards to drive the seized vehicles to police stations and insufficient parking space at traffic police stations to keep the vehicles.
 
 Hyderabad police commissioner M Mahendar Reddy said the New Year celebrations in the city passed off without any untoward incidents. "With the cooperation of the people, 15,000 police personnel, including, 100 SHE Teams, 50 teams of traffic cops, supported by the Rapid Action Force and Telangana State Special Police were on the streets between 10pm and 5am and ensured mishap-free New Year celebrations," Mahendar Reddy said.
 
 
