JAIPUR: How far will a woman go to marry her lover? According to startling discoveries made by the   (SOG), which arrested a 26-year-old NRI woman on Thursday for being part of a sex racket, to any extent! The woman,  , was arrested by the SOG wing from Kota on charges of extortion and blackmailing at least six people. She was part of the   busted in the city on December 24.

 The gang was involved in honeytrapping wealthy people. Two persons were also arrested by the SOG in this regard. But the story of Ravneet Kaur, who was born in Hong Kong and staying with her grandmother in Faridkot in Punjab, reads almost like a film script.
 
 “In 2008, she came to her native village in Punjab and did a one-year certificate course in investment management. She came to Gurgaon in 2009 and stayed with the family of her friend. In 2012, she met a man, identified as  , who was pursuing a MBA course from a private university where she was doing her BBA. They both fell in love,“ said Karan Sharma, additional superintendent of police, SOG.
 
 After completing their course, she wanted to marry Rohit. But the boy's family was against the relationship as both of them were jobless. “During interrogation, she confessed that rejection by Rohit's mother forced her to take the easy money route. Later, in 2013, she met the kingpin of the sex racket   who offered her a job at Rs 12,000 a month. She also met other gang members,“ Sharma added.
 
 “The gang realized that the girl was desperate to earn money by hook or crook. In 2014, they sent her to a leading builder in the city as a client. Later, the gang blackmailed the builder for Rs 1.20 crore with alleged rape. This was her first deal for which she received Rs 30 lakh,“ Sharma said.
 
 The gang hunted other soft targets, ranging from doctors and engineers to builders, among others. “In February 2016, when she married Rohit, she had nearly earned Rs 1 crore plus and had blackmailed at least six men,“ he said.
 
 After marriage, she stopped being part of the racket.“Following her marriage, she wanted to lead a normal life and, more importantly , her husband was unaware of what she had done,“ he said.
 
 She lavished the money on Rohit by buying him expensive gifts, from imported perfume to jewellery. “She claimed that she wanted to prove to the boy's family that she can earn well,“ he added.
 
 
 
 
 The alleged culprit in the sex racket, Ravneet Kaur, had a miscarriage almost a fortnight before her arrest on Thursday.Despite the fact that she was arrested on charges of blackmail and extortion, her husband Rohit Sharma was seen bringing her medicines and clothes at the SOG headquarters. “She was ill, so on humanitarian grounds, we have allowed her husband to bring whatever is required, including medicines,“ said an officer.
 
