One of the four accused was known to the woman from  
 
 
 
 
 A 27-year-old woman was allegedly gangraped by four men, who had lured her to Bengaluru from her native Dakshina Kannada with  . The victim, who is married, was looking for a job and had sought the help of one of the accused, whom she knew and identified as Manju.
 
 Manju had called her up, asking her to come to Bengaluru immediately as he had found a suitable job for her.
 
 When the victim arrived in the city, Manju along with three others took her to an apartment and allegedly raped her. Police said they are yet to check the background of the accused, but have obtained the mobile phone number of the man who had called her and are looking for him as well as the other three accused, one of whom, according to the victim, was addressed as Chandu by the others.
 
 The victim claims to have left her native place on Tuesday night after receiving the call from Manju. She reached the city in the wee hours of Wednesday, and called up Manju from Jalahalli cross.
 
 "Manju came in an auto to Jalahalli cross and asked the victim to board it. Along with Manju, there was another man in the auto apart from the driver. On the way, two more men got into the auto. When the victim asked about them, Manju told her that they were the ones who will be helping her in gettoing the job. The four men then took her to an apartment flat in the vicinity. After entering the apartment, the accused asked her to take a bath and to get ready as she had to attend the job interview.
 
 They are said to have gone outside after locking her inside. After an hour, the four returned to the flat, by which time, the victim had taken her bath and was ready," said an officer based on the statements of the victim.
 
 However, instead of taking her for the interview, they threatened her with a knife and raped her one after another. The victim has claimed that she was repeatedly raped by the four men till 5.30 in the evening. "Around 6 pm, three men went outside, and just one was left to guard the woman. Somehow, the victim managed to lock him in the toilet and escaped from the apartment,” the officer added.
 
 From there, she hired an auto to Majestic, from where she took a bus to Horamavu to meet her children who were staying at an ashram there.
 
 She came back to Majestic at around 11.30 pm and was to take a bus back to her native place at 6 am the next day.
 
 “While she was sitting at the bus stand, she became overcome with grief over what had happened to her. She then dialled the police control room to make sure that the accused were punished,” the officer added.
 
 The North Division police have registered a case of   (IPC 376D) along with other sections and are investigating.
 
 
 
 
 The victim, who is married and hails from Dakshina Kannada, was looking for a job and had sought the help of one of the accused, whom she has identified as Manju. The victim arrived in the city in the wee hours of Wednesday and was taken to an apartment flat by Manju and three other accused. They threatened her at knifepoint and took turns at raping her till 5 pm. She managed to escape and made her way to Majestic bus stand. While she was waiting for a bus to go back home in the early hours of Thursday, she called up the cops and filed a complaint.
 
