INDORE: The ‘traditional’ illicit liquor selling points have turned ‘mobile’. After cellphone became part of everyone’s life, the illegal ‘daru adda’ have been closed down while the peddlers have switched to ‘mobile adda’ - a term used by excise officials.

 “In the span of last few years, about 90 per cent of ‘daru adda’ have vanished from the city while the peddlers have started   over mobile phone” said a senior excise official wishing anonymity.
 
 As time changes, those have been involved in selling of illicit liquor has started maintaining their customer base in the mobile’s phone diary. Besides, they have started offering the feature of home delivery and thus, no one needs to visit ‘daru adda’ to purchase liquor.
 
 As the law permits to keep two bottles of liquor, the paddlers take its benefit when caught.
 
 “When we catch the peddlers with maximum two bottles of liquor, they claim to purchase it from liquor shops for own use as they know that carrying maximum two bottles of liquor is legal,” the official added.
 
 If the same person is caught repeatedly, the department starts keeping a close eye on his/her activity and wait till the paddler is caught with big amount of illicit liquor to take legal action in the matter.
 
 “Switching from   to the concept of   reduces the chances of the peddlers being caught. Besides, they have also started selling liquor of high-range brands to their customers at their doorstep,” the official said.
 
 The official said that all the liquor being sold in the district, around 20 per cent is illicit liquor.
 
 “The peddlers usually three sources of illicit liquors. Most   being sold in the market is made available by the liquor licence holders to meet the target of liquor consumption given to them and to recover whatever amount of loss they can,” the excise official said.
 
 He added that illicit liquor being imported from other states and illicit ‘distillery’ being run in the city is also a source of supplying illicit liquor to the peddlers for selling in the market.
 
 “We have managed to control the illicit liquor trade in the city to a great extent. While no liquor selling point is left in the city, we have launched a massive crackdown against those involved in home delivery of illicit liquor by operating the business on mobile phone” the assistant commissioner (Excise),   told TOI.
 
