VIJAYAWADA: The acting chief justice of Hyderabad high court, Justice  , observed that the atmosphere in the courts is intimidating and stressed on the need to make them people friendly.

 Speaking at the one-day state-level interaction on the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, Justice Ranganathan recalled that about 30 years ago he was scared of visiting a police station. But now he felt that police stations, over the time, have become people-friendly. He said that this change, however, has not taken place with regard to courts. He explained that an outsider visiting a court finds it difficult to adjust with the court’s atmosphere. “When adults find the atmosphere in the courts intimidating, one can imagine how the children, especially those who are victims of sexual abuse, feel when they are brought to the courts,” Justice Ranganathan observed.
 
 While talking about the menace of sexual abuse of children, the acting chief justice recollected one of his visits to a juvenile rehabilitation home, run by Padmasree Sunitha Krishnan, a few years ago. He said that he had tears in his eyes while listening to the stories of the children. He said that sexual crimes against children are on the rise. He thanked the officials of the high court who organised the talk session and said that society is cruel to children and that such sessions must be held not just to create awarenss about the problem but also to raise awareness among judicial officers about the various existing legislations on the issue. He urged, “ There is so much to be done. Parents, the police, the courts and other institutions must be friendly with children and not victimise them.”
 
 Director general of police N   said that 84% of the persons who commit crimes against children are first-time offenders while only 16% are repeat offenders. Among the 84% about 45% are below 18 years of age. It has also been found that offenders are most often known to the children. They are either family members, relatives or neighbours, he said. Sambasiva Rao advised parents to keep an eye on their wards and the offenders too.
 
 Chief secretary   said that the state government in the last one year has rescued over 150 children who have been victims of sexual crimes and rehabilitated them. He further added that the government has provided medical assistance to 300 victims during the last one year and asserted that it was serious about eradicating the problem. He echoed the chief justice when he underscorred the need to create awareness among the people and save children from sexual exploitation. He assured that the government would organise more such meetings to create awareness among the stakeholders.
 
 Several senior police and judicial officers, members of non-governmental organisations engaged in protecting children presented papers at the interactive session. 
 
 Critical times
 
 Acting CJ worried about the intimidating atmosphere in courts
 
 He favours people-friendly atmosphere 
 
 Says society is cruel to children, calls for collective effort to stop crimes against children 
 
 DGP says 84% are first-time offenders 
 
 Offenders are mostly family members, relatives or neighbours 
 
 Chief secy calls for more interactive sessions to create awareness about  
 
 
