 was only 19 when he was straddled with the responsibility of carrying forward his father Gulshan Kumar’s legacy. Today, apart from being a big player in the music industry, his company,  , is packing an interesting mix of films, which include smaller content-driven movies and big-starrer projects. In a chat with Bombay Times, Bhushan talks about his upcoming films and how he wants to fulfil his dad’s dream. Excerpts…

 
 Our focus is to make content-driven films because that’s what the audience seems to like. Pucca commercial projects haven’t done well at the box office recently. This year, our film, 'Hindi Medium', became a huge success. That movie was a real test for us and we didn’t expect it to open big at the ticket windows. We were of the opinion that if it doesn’t work, then we are on the wrong path. But clearly, realistic narratives and films with strong and relatable stories are making a mark. Our recent film 'Raabta', which was based on the concept of reincarnation, didn’t work. People couldn’t relate to it. 'Baadshaho' was a big-budget multi-starrer, but the backdrop of the film was based on a real incident. That helped pique people’s curiosity. Two of my upcoming projects, ' ' and 'Raid', are also based on real events. While the former is a love story set during the 2013 Uttarakhand floods, the latter is a thriller about a real-life income tax  .
 
 
 Today, people either want to see meaningful cinema or are demanding a film like Baahubali. With the latter, the audience knows that willing suspension of disbelief is a prerequisite. In such a film, the protagonist fighting a thousand adversaries alone and emerging victorious without a scratch is palatable because of the superb quality of production and visuals. On the other hand, mere star-driven films fail to earn box-office revenue. 
 
  
  
 
 
 With women empowerment becoming a talking point, the number of films with women as protagonists has been on the rise. While some women-centric films are impactful, some are not. I recently saw the rushes of our film 'Tumhari Sullu', starring Vidya Balan, and realised how relevant it is to our times. 'Bhoomi' is a father-daughter story which also highlights a current issue.
 
 
 I am a passionate filmmaker, but at the same time, I also ensure that my films are budgeted smartly. I don’t believe in pumping in any amount just to fulfil my passion. Producers who don’t keep a check on their budget end up losing money. We put in our own money, we don’t borrow from anyone. I earn from my music business and use it to produce films. Actors now insist that a movie’s budget shouldn’t be on the higher end of the spectrum, and often reduce their remuneration to help make the film a profitable venture.
 
 I have been in the music business for close to 18 years. Now, filmmakers consult me before they zero in on the songs for their films. So, as far as music is concerned, I know the game. However, I haven’t nailed it as far as ascertaining what makes for good content in movies. In fact, I have green lit films that I was not sure about and admitted ki mujhe nahi maloom ki yeh chalegi ya nahi. I did that because I wanted to take a chance and learn. The turning point for our production house was the Salman-starrer 'Ready', which turned out to be a huge hit. That’s when we decided to get into full-fledged production. At that time, franchises like ' ' and ' ' were in vogue and so, I thought of making 'Aashiqui 2'. 'Aashiqui' was my father’s first film, and I was anyway keen on taking it forward. It was my father’s dream to make films after music, and I wanted to carry his legacy forward. Talking about my father, 'Mogul' is a very special film for us, as it’s his biopic. Akshay will essay the lead role; I didn’t even narrate the script (penned by Subhash Kapoor) to him. I simply told him that we wanted to make the film. While my father is my idol and inspiration, my mother has been my biggest support. Twenty years back, when I took over the business, it was her encouragement and belief that helped me. She would keep telling me that my father would guide me and help me take the business forward even though he was no more. 
 
  
  
 
 
