MYSURU: Former minister   on Tuesday took potshots at JD(S) leader   for seeking to join   ahead of the Nanjangud  .

 “I’m not worried if some Murthy joins Congress,” Prasad said, referring to the BJP’s prospects in the bypoll and asserted that he will see the saffron party reach the winning post easily. “Why should I be worried if he joins Congress? There are 30 probable candidates for as many days in Congress,” he stated, belittling the Congress’ strategy to take on him. 
 
 “BJP has decided to field me, and we are united to take the fight to the Congress camp,” Prasad told reporters on the sidelines of the executive committee meeting of Mysuru district BJP. Prasad, a two-time MLA from Nanjangud, said that he will tour the constituency from this week. “BJP is hosting the party leaders’ meeting in Nanjangud on February 14 to devise the party’s strategy,” he said, adding that he will tour 15 assembly constituencies in Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts after the bypoll. According to him, people of Karnataka are looking for change and will vote out the Congress government in the 2018 assembly elections.
 
 Work unitedly, BJP men told
 
 The bypoll to Nanjangud figured prominently at the daylong executive committee meeting of Mysuru district BJP unit on Tuesday. The party activists were instructed to drop indifferences and work for the party.
 
 Former minister and the unit chief M Shivanna asked the workers to stay united, especially during the poll season. 
 
 “After the Najnagud bypoll, the state will head towards the assembly polls in April-May 2018. We should organize better and reach out to people,” he told the activists after inaugurating the meet. “There is need to strengthen the hands of PM Narendra Modi and former CM B S Yeddyurappa,” he added.
 
 Referring to the exit of former chief minister S M Krishna, he said: “Congress is a sinking boat. Some leaders have quit, while others will follow suit. We should organize ourselves and take on Congress.” 
 
 Shivanna admitted that the party received a setback in APMC polls in the district, where it drew zero.
 
 Former minister V Srinivas Prasad, State SC Morcha vice-president Nagaraja Malladi and the district unit vice-president S Mahadevaiah attended the meeting.
 
 
