LUCKNOW: Even by his own standard of somersaults, Mulayam Singh Yadav’s latest was unsettling. Two days after the SP patriarch insisted he was against the SP-Congress alliance and he wouldn’t campaign for it, he made this sharp U-turn: “I’ll campaign not only for SP, but also for the  .”

 “This radical course correction shows the SP patriarch’s dilemma – whether to go with his son and endorse the Congress, or stick to his brand of Samajwad the bedrock of which is anti-Congressism,” says a political analyst.
 
 As   and   held their three-hour roadshow in Lucknow on Janauary 29, Mulayam dropped a bombshell in Delhi. He rejected the alliance. The outburst didn’t surprise those tracking his politics for decades. Mulayam’s opposition to any alliance with Congress should be viewed with a historical perspective. “His entire political career rests on samajwad drawn from Lohia’s socialism. Therefore, there was no compulsion for him to accept what his son had decided.”
 
 The SP patriarch has been opposed to this alliance ever since reports about a the growing camaraderie between Akhilesh and Rahul-Priyanka Gandhi started doing the rounds in December. On December 28, in the middle of a worsening family feud, he openly announced that SP was capable of winning the elections on its own, therefore, it was not have any alliance. This is the fi rst time that the SP and the Congress are in an electoral tie-up. In 1989-90, Rajiv Gandhi supported Mulayam’s minority government. Later, MSY extended outside support to UPA-1 and 2. He saved Manmohan Singh’s government after the Left withdrew support over the Indo-US nuclear deal.
 
 But Mulayam’s rise coincided with the Congress decline in UP. He knows if his party gives the Congress any space, it could bounce back. UP, a Congress fortress of 40 years since 1947, banked on Brahmins, Dalits and Muslims. After the Congress weakened following the Mandal-Mandir wave, Brahmins switched to the  , Dalits to the BSP and Muslims to the SP. Mulayam had a key role in the Congress’s decimation, poaching its Muslim voters.
 
 “One example shows how critical this minority vote has been. In the 2009 LS polls, when Mulayam embraced Kalyan Singh, blamed by Muslims for the Babri demolition, Muslims voted en masse for the Congress, it won an impressive 22 seats,” an observer recalls. Apart from ideological issues, this was why Mulayam opposed a Congress tie-up. “A Congress revival would push the SP to the margins, he feared,” an aide concedes. “Netaji also believes the party unleashed the CBI on him in a DA case,” he adds.
 
 In 1999, after A B Vajpayee’s government fell, Sonia Gandhi staked claim to form government. Mulayam — who had 32 MPs — reportedly went back on his promise of support. Ever since, the two parties have been suspicious of each other. Despite Mulayam’s readiness, Sonia didn’t include the SP in the UPA. The party extended outside support. Mulayam has been equally belligerent against the BJP. The SPCongress deal never had his mental sanction.
 
 “He was uncomfortable with the every thought of endorsing Congress candidates,” says an observer.
 
 So, why this turnaround? It’s a battle between his heart and head, says an SP leader. “Mentally he can’t disassociate himself with the anti-Congress ideology. But his heart goes out to his son, who his fi ghting against odds,” he says.
 
 
