SECUNDERABAD: Finally some good news for nearly one lakh commuters who travel to   and other parts of the city using Mastan Point, Diamond Point and the  . 

 A proposal for widening the road in the two major junctions made nearly a decade ago, has now become a reality. Traffic jams on these stretches cause severe problems to commuters and more so during the rainy season. Knee deep potholes, road congestion and narrow junctions used to cause inconvenience to commuters.
 
  In fact, commuters ran from pillar to post to resolve the traffic problems, but Secunderabad Cantonment authorities were delaying the widening of junctions due to various reasons.   was encroached by shopkeepers. Though   authorities asked them to vacate the area, they ignored their pleas.
 
 Finally, last year due to heavy rainfall, traffic jams and inundated stretches sent traffic flow haywire. Keeping in view the trouble faced by road users, the   wing swing into action and razed all encroachments on the Mastan Point Junction, said to be one of the busiest junctions after Tadbund, Bowenpally and Trimulgherry junction in the Cantonment. 
 
 "It was a 30-feet road and due to encroachments, the junction becomes narrower and as a result, traffic hardly moved. Particularly during peak hours, road-users spend their time in traffic jams. We therefore decided to widen the road to 70-feet road on Mastan Point and MES Pump House," a senior SCB Engineering official told TOI. "We pulled down all the encroachments and have cleared the area in a three month operation. Later, junction widening to ensure free flow of traffic on these stretches were taken up. From last week, we re-carpeted the stretches after widen the junctions and new tiles were fixed on pavements ," he said. 
 
 Commuters from Safilguda, Malkajgiri, Medchal, Alwal and other areas also travel on this stretches. "It's a long wait. Since two decades, I travelled on these stretches and now its a much smoother ride, thanks to SCB officials who widened the junction," said T Sekhar Gupta, a businessman from SP Road.
 
