CHENNAI: The twelve-hour leakage in the   well in   2,000 litres of crude   and 18,000 cubic metres of gas, damaging under an acre of land, senior officials of the state-run company said on Wednesday. 

 At a press briefing, ONGC’s Director (Onshore), V P Mahawar, said, “Two thousand litres of crude oil and 18,000 cubic metres of gas leaked out of the well,” adding that they had launched an investigation to ascertain the causes. He said the land owner had been paid compensation of Rs 59,000 and that ONGC is taking steps to restore the land.
 
 Senior officials of the PSU, which is in the eye of a storm after the Kathiramangalam   sparked protests, clashes between villagers and police and the subsequent arrest of activists, said they will make available information regarding their project sites in TN, and will release a white paper.
 
 Locals have complained that water used for drinking and domestic purposes is now a muddy brown colour. ONGC officials said Tamilnadu Water Supply and Drainage Board tested samples and found that water in nine bore wells in the village was potable, while in three, “only iron content has increased”. 
 
 The ongoing protests at   began after the villagers noticed the leak on June 30. An ONGC statement on Wednesday said they observed a leakage from the pipeline at the Kuthalam-35 well in Kathiramangalam, at 8.30 a.m on June 30. Their crew was unable to close it till 6.30 pm as “local public gathered at the leakage site and obstructed ONGC crew from entering the well site”, it said.
 
 Environment activist G Sundarrajan of Poovulagin Nanbargal said locals are concerned about depletion of ground water levels, and contamination of water. “There are carcinogenic chemicals and radioactive materials in the water that comes out during drilling. They are not addressing the issue of seepage,” he said. 
 
 ONGC officials said drilling requires 25,000 litres of water a day or “or the daily water consumed by 250 people”. Steel casings prevent contact between well fluids and ground water, and the water-based mud used for drilling operations “consists of harmless chemicals”, they said.
 
 They denied there were any coal bed methane and shale gas operations in TN, depletion or pollution of ground water, and any adverse impact on agriculture. 
 
