Amid mudslinging between   and   officers over the issue of arrest of former   chairman Sudhir Kumar, secretary of Bihar chapter of   Arvind Pandey told TOI’s Piyush Kumar Tripathi in an exclusive interview on Saturday that the IAS officials who think that IPS officers suffer from an inferiority complex, must be having superiority issues themselves. Excerpts:

 
 It is a matter of investigation. All I want to say is that Bihar is one of the best states in terms of governance and Bihar Police is one of the best police forces in the country. The police take action instantly in case of wrongdoings, whoever may be the accused.
 
 
 No association – IAS or IPS – should take up individual cases. The constitutions of these associations allow them to take up only issues of collective interest. Even the state governments give recognition to the associations because they work for collective interest.
 
 
 Yes, there is no bias in actions of the police. In fact, police is the only service which acts against its own officers. There have been many cases in Bihar in the past when the police took strict action against IPS officers as well. For instance, a DGP-rank officer was arrested in 2006. His house was confiscated and later a school was opened on the premises.
 
 
 I would not like to comment on this. However, I would only like to say that if at all human chains are to be made, let us make it for greater causes like prohibition, poverty elevation and Bihari pride.
 
 
 Actions taken for justice may cause pain, but people should have patience as it is done for the benefit of the society. I am disappointed by the retired Bihar chief secretary V S Dubey’s philosophy that IPS officers suffer from inferiority complex. Such a thinking betrays he suffers from superiority complex, which is not a helathy sign. I know officers who had got IAS but opted for the IPS. How can then anyone say that IPS is inferior to IAS? As for competition, it is there among IAS officers too for getting the post of, say, chief secretary or home secreatry. Just as this competition ends once the appointment is made, the student-day competition also ends once the student joins a service. This is human nature, and it is unwise to attribute any individual’s actions throughout his life to the sense of competition he had as a job aspirant. 
 
