AGARTALA: The state assembly witnessed two adjournments on Thursday over the   moved by   against the act of showing   to chief minister   and preventing him from making his way to the capital complex. 

 Seeking justice for the death of engineering student Anwara Choudhury (18), a group of students gheraoed the CM for more than 8 minutes, showing black flags and raising slogans demanding his resignation. 
 
 After question hour, CPM chief whip Basudeb Majumdar moved a censure motion, stating that Trinamool Chhatra Parisad (TMCP) had prevented the chief minister from entering the assembly premises. "In parliamentary democracy, this type of activities by a political party is highly condemnable. The attempt was made to create anarchy in the state", he said. 
 
 Supplementing him, health minister Badal Choudhury said, "Preventing chief minister from joining assembly is highly condemnable. The House to adopt the censure motion for the act". Deputy speaker Pabitra Kar passed the censure motion, leading to protests by the opposition. MLAs from Congress and Trinamool Congress jointly opposed the move and stated that the CM was shown black flags by the students on VIP Road - outside the capital complex, as part of a democratic movement, and the incident is no way related to parliamentary democracy.
 
 "As per the procedure, chief whip can move a censure motion for discussion on the issue justifying the stand of their claim and afterwards it may pass with the unanimous resolution. Most undemocratically the ruling party was favoured by the deputy speaker Pabitra Kar and it was adopted, which we did not approve," alleged Congress legislative party leader Gopal Roy.
 
  "The ruling from the chair for passing censure motion was totally against the Parliamentary democracy", alleged Trinamool MLA Sudip Roy Barman.
 
 Some opposition members stood on top of the table of the assembly secretary , who sits in front of the Speaker's podium, and raised slogans and threw paper balls in his direction.
 
 
