JAUNPUR: For most of the people in   Assembly constituency of the district,  , contesting as candidate of a little known political outfit   or NISHAD Party as it is commonly known, is just like a  . He is accessible to people seeking his help to settle petty disputes and solve local problems related to drinking water and drainage. 

 Considered to be a strongman in the area, 41-year-old Dhananjay faces many criminal cases, including murder charge, and was also sent to jail. In December 2014 he was acquitted in a case related to rape and criminally intimidating a woman. But, for locals he is their trusted ‘caretaker’ and ‘saviour’.
 
 “Humko to inka hi sahara hai, yehi nyay dilayenge (We depend on him for justice),” said an elderly woman, who approached Dhananjay during his visit to Dronipur village with a complaint against a ‘pattidar’ whe had beaten up her family members over a land dispute. A number of villagers met him with demands ranging from a pontoon bridge over the Sai river to laying drains in their villages and installation of handpumps. “It is because of him that every village in this area has link roads and handpumps,” said one Trilokinath Mishra.
 
 Dhananjay’s door-to-door campaign begins early in the morning from his ancestral village Bansafa, about 20km from Jaunpur district headquarters. Before leaving home on a four-wheeler, he gives a smiling look to his black horse. On Saturday he visited many villages, including Shekhpu, Chitawa, Kotwa, Bhutaha, Chitauri and Shekhpura.
 
 Holding a considerable clout in the region, Dhananjay is giving a tough fight to his rivals, including sitting MLA of SP and minister Parasnath Yadav, Vivek Yadav of BSP and Satish Singh of BJP. 
 
 Malahni assembly constituency, which has 3.41 lakh voters, is dominated by Yadavs. The remaining electorate constitutes of Kshatriya, Brahmin, SC, Nishad, Muslim, and Vaishya. Other castes, including Chauhan, Maurya, Pasi, Khatik, also exist in this constituency. “Abhi sabhi candidates Dhananjay se hi lar rahe hain (All candidates are directly in fight with Dhananjay)," said a local, Ashok Singh. 
 
 Dhanajya’s wife Jagriti Singh, a medical professional, had contested 2012 assembly election as an independent candidate, but lost to SP.
 
 “We never saw KP Singh, the BJP MP from Jaunpur, in our area after he was elected to Lok Sabha in 2014. It was not the victory of K P Singh. He had won because of the Modi wave. Why should people vote for such ‘ghost’ leaders,” wondered a shopkeeper in Buxa area, who was a BJP supporter. “Dhananjay has never ditched his constituency. He has always been here. It hardly matters whether he wins or not,” he added.
 
 Dhananjay was elected to Lok Sabha from Jaunpur on the BSP ticket in 2009, but expelled from the party before 2014 parliamentary elections. Although he contested 2014 Lok Sabha election, but lost. He had also unsuccessfully contested 2004 Lok Sabha election. For the first time he won the assembly election from Rari assembly constituency as an independent candidate in 2002, and then in 2007 on the JD (U) ticket.
 
 
