NEW DELHI: The prime minister may visit the US after the assembly   are over, as New Delhi and   work towards an early Narendra Modi-Donald   meeting to sustain the momentum in bilateral relations that has picked up in recent years. The new President invited   to the US during a phone call late Tuesday.
 
  The Indian PM was one of the first   leaders Trump telephoned since his inauguration on Friday, signalling his administration’s intent to give priority to the strategic partnership between the two democracies.
  
  While no dates have yet been fixed for a visit, it will most likely happen after the assembly polls that start early next month and stretch into March,   in the know of the development said. Since being elected as the PM, Modi has visited the US thrice — in 2014, 2015 and 2016 — and also addressed a joint session of the US Congress. “President Trump looked forward to hosting Prime Minister Modi in the   later this year,” according to the   readout from the call.
  
  Modi, on his part, invited Trump to visit India. “Had a warm conversation with President Trump last evening. President and I agreed to work closely in the coming days to further strengthen our bilateral ties. Have also invited President Trump to visit India,” the PM tweeted.
  
  In 2009, the then Indian PM   was the first state guest that   hosted as US President. Trump and Modi discussed economic and defence cooperation and   security issues including Af-Pak situation, the White House said following the call.
  
  Trump resolved India and the US will “stand shoulder to shoulder” to fight global terrorism, the White House said. “President Trump emphasised that the United States considers India a true friend and partner in addressing challenges around the world.”
  
  Expanding Indo-US counterterror cooperation will be a priority for the Trump administration, indicated a person familiar with the matter.
  
  The conversation took   at 11:30 pm India time on Tuesday. Modi was one of the first leaders to congratulate Trump after his victory in the November elections and the inauguration last week.
  
  
  
