NEW DELHI: Ahead of the hearing at the   ( ) on 
  , who is facing death sentence in Pakistan, the government seemed confident on Saturday that it had a compelling case on what it said was essentially a consular issue.

 India believes that its case is built around the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations (VCCR) optional protocol which both countries are signatory to and which accords primacy to ICJ in disputes arising out of interpretation and application of  .
 
 
  that its own national laws and that its 2008 bilateral agreement on consular access with India take precedence over VCCR. The problem with this argument, as Indian officials pointed out, is that this agreement has not yet been registered with the  .
 
 Article 102 of   Charter clearly states that every treaty and every international agreement entered into by any UN member must be registered with the secretariat and that no party to any such treaty or international agreement which has not been registered can be invoked before any organ of the UN.
 
 The Indo-Pak 2008 agreement is yet to be presented before the UN.
 
 Pakistan media has gone to town in the past few days with reports that   had modified its 1960 declaration before ICJ, just ahead of the announcement of Jadhav’s sentence, to limit the latter’s role on issues related to its national security.
 
 India believes this in no way dilutes its decision to approach the ICJ as its petition is focused on adherence to VCCR optional protocol which Pakistan is signatory to. 
 
 Until the time Pakistan withdraws from that protocol, officials said, ICJ will have jurisdiction in the case.
 
 “The important thing is that they have retained the optional protocol. They have mentioned national security in their list of exceptions but the question to be asked is how does giving consular access to   affect Pakistan’s security,” said former foreign secretary Kanwal Sibal.
 
 According to agency reports, Pakistan media said on Saturday that Islamabad was preparing a strategy to “forcefully” defend its position before the ICJ, quoting attorney general   as saying that he had sent his recommendations on defending the Pakistan military court’s death sentence to Jadhav to PM Nawaz Sharif.
 
 Ausaf is expected to represent Pakistan before the ICJ. But he did not rule out the possibility of engaging someone from abroad, said agency reports.
 
 A report from Pakistan quoted an expert on international law as saying that Pakistan could raise the issue of jurisdiction before the ICJ, citing a 1999 case pertaining to the shooting down of an Atlantique aircraft in which India had refused to accept the court’s jurisdiction on the pretext that it could not hear cases related to disputes between the Commonwealth countries.
 
 Jadhav, who was apparently arrested on March 3 last year, was 
  .
 
