In an era where anybody can become an artist with the help of a mobile application, the members of Nagpur for Kids (NFK) Club on Wednesday dared pick the brush and palettes to paint. Creative Craft, painting and drawing classes organized a two-day Warli painting workshop for NFK Club members, with an aim to promote ancient Indian cultures, especially Warli Culture. 

 The workshop, held at the centre’s Civil Lines premises, was conducted by proprietor  , who has over 20 years of experience in the field. Kawre conducts different art workshops throughout the year.
 
 Kawre kicked off the day one of the workshop with a discussion on Warli tribe. Children were excited to learn about different aspects of the tribe and how they had developed a unique painting style.
 
 The workshop was divided into two sessions, presentation and painting. Explaining the intricate details of Warli art, Kawre said that though the paintings appeared easy, a lot of attention is required to create them. “It is one of the most beautiful and satisfying arts and it is recognized worldwide for its unique style.”
 
 She further said that Warli paintings consisted of geometric figures which usually symbolized nature in different forms. Kawre taught children how to draw figures in Warli style and also explained the significance of different symbols used in the paintings. 
 
 Sushant Jaiswal, an NFK Club member, said, “I did not know anything about Warli paintings. The drawing is not very hard but it requires intricate detailing. I love this art.”
 
 Later, children painted and designed envelopes and bookmarks.  , a parent said, “Children were introduced to new concepts. It helps them broaden their horizon.”
 
 Concluding the workshop, Kawre said that every child is an artist but the challenge is to keep the artist alive when one grows up. 
 
 Creative Craft’s team, including Sangita Das,  , Snehal Mane, Rakhi Shirke, Aarati Kothe, Vaishnavi Gore, Ummehani and Tejas Kawre assisted the children.
 
 (Reporting by  )
 
 
