BHOPAL: Almost eight long years after preparing a draft,   may enact a law aimed at putting a check on practice of arbitrarily   by private institutions. State school   confirmed to TOI the bill, based on proposals of fees  , will be tabled during the   of the assembly. Similar assurances came from Shah's predecessors in last seven years, wherein each one went on record claiming the bill would be enacted soon, but to no avail.

 Taking a leaf from states like Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan, the state government drafted a bill for the Act in 2008. The act, if approved, would have regulated and monitored fee of private schools in the state.
 
 Despite all tall claims, the government failed to table the bill in past state assembly sessions. Later, Shah claimed the bill would be tabled in winter assembly session, something that did not happen. Parents association had written to the government in past years to pass the bill expeditiously while the Madhya Pradesh High Court (MPHC) served notices to the state over arbitrary hike in fees by private schools last year. "We have been made to run from pillar to post for many years. Despite hard work and efforts, the government is not doing anything, but only giving statements without any substance," said Prabodh Pandya, general secretary, MP Parents Association, Bhopal.
 
 States like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Delhi have already taken a lead by enacting the 'Fees Regulation Act', "Madhya Pradesh government has been only mulling over the issue since 2008." Shah is not the only minister, who vowed to get the bill passed for bringing in the act, but several other ministers promised the same in past, failed to deliver on their commitment.
 
 In 2011, former principal secretary, school education department, Sanjay Kumar Singh, agreed and assured about "act being introduced to restrict arbitrary fee hike by all private schools." In 2012, then director public instructions (DPI) Sabhajeet Yadav said, "For the Act to be implemented before new session in July, 2013, it needs cabinet approval." In May 2015, during declaration of board results, former school education minister Paras Jain announced forming fees regulation committee to enact law. In March in 2016, minister of state for school education Deepak Joshi said Act would be implemented in current academic session. Current academic session is coming to an end with many schools already gone ahead with admission process. Speaking to TOI, Shah said new draft of the bill has been prepared. "We will bring it in next budget session. All schools, including the CBSE-affiliated will come under the act," he said.
 
