CHANDIGARH: He was called the giant killer when he defeated sitting MP   from Patiala -a traditional Congress bastion -in 2014. Now, mid-term, Patiala MP Dr  , who had contested the polls on   (AAP) ticket but was later supended from the party, has decided to leave electoral politics for good.You've decided not to   after completing the present term. Are you disenchanted with the  ?

 That's not the case. After taking the plunge in politics, I've worked dedicatedly and tried my best to raise issues pertaining to Patiala in Lok Sabha. The demands for Pass port Sewa Kendra and new rail links have been accepted and condition of over 700 schools has improved. But the thing is, I will be 67 in 2019 and don't think my health will allow me to be active in electoral politics. I would like to go back to my practice.
 
 You were a giant killer and many of your supporters would like you to keep representing them.
 
 Well I can always reconsider my decision, but as of now this is what I have resolved.
 
 
 
 
 It is true, AAP is not the same party that I had joined. It does not boast of the same ideology . Had I still been part of the large team comprising Yogendra Yadav, Medha Patkar and Sucha Singh Chhotepur and others, as envisaged in the beginning, things would have been different.Not possible for one person to spearhead the movement.
 
 
 
 
 
 It has happened in political and social movements earlier.Activists eventually get disillusioned and never become politically active again. You cannot resurrect AAP to the 2012 Jantar Mantar days, or to its political origin in 2013.A good number of them have gone offshore or return to their own businesses or switch to other parties.
 
 Candidates fielded by political front led by you did not do well.
 
 Our idea was to raise pertinent political issues about the state, and not to just win elections. We did end up highlighting issues and making the voters aware.
 
 
 
 
 Right now, the Punjab unit is in contradiction with the central leadership. They are holding the high command responsible for the poll debacle. At the same time, the state leaders have their own individual identities. There is no common ideology.
 
  The ideology of AAP too has lost its political relevance. It is not possible to build another `Swaraj' or anti-corruption movement now. It was an aftermath of the corruption charges against the then UPA government. AAP no longer has any internal democracy or financial transparency. It is a party that conspired against its own leader Sucha Singh Chhotepur. These state-level leaders, who are criticizing the Delhi leadership now, had kept mum then.
 
