GURUGRAM: Cops probing the Ryan International case have reported several irregularities in the implementation of guidelines issued by the CBSE, the Haryana government and the  , that relate to safety and security of students, before the Sohna court on Wednesday. Police also said the amount spent on safety and security of children by the Bhondsi branch of the school were, going by the guidelines, insufficient.

 With the three-day police custody of the two Ryan officials arrested on Monday — Francis Thomas, the north India head, and Jayesh Thomas, the HR head of Bhondsi branch — ending on Wednesday, police produced them before judicial magistrate 1st class (JMIC) M Z Khan in Sohna court for extension of remand.
 
 Public prosecutor Ramnivas Yadav requested four-day police custody of Francis, but did not press for extension of custody of Jayesh, saying his part of the probe is complete. 
 
 In their submission before court, police highlighted the school and its officials had not followed guidelines related to safety and security of children in school, issued by CBSE, Haryana government and Supreme Court. “Several irregularities in implementation of guidelines have come to light, for which Francis Thomas and Jayesh Thomas have been booked, under Section 75 of JJ Act and Section 34 (joint liability) of IPC,” said police.
 
 The public prosecutor said police has recovered some documents, including a proposal by the principal to improve the school branch’s security. Branch officials claimed they had forwarded it to their head office, though police are yet to verify whether it was actually received in Mumbai. “The bus conductor remains the prime accused, but the case may have more dimensions, so we’re trying to widen the probe,” said a police official who is part of the probe.
 
 Police told court they are looking for documents related to members of the school’s controlling trust, their roles and responsibilities, and financial documents detailing the amount spent on security by the branch. “These can be recovered from the school’s Mumbai headquarters, for which we need Francis’s custody,” said police. Claiming innocence before court, Francis said, “Proposals relating to safety of children were approved without delay. There’s no lapse from our end. It was an unfortunate incident beyond our control.” 
 
 The court extended Francis’s custody by three days and directed police to produce him before the Sohna court on September 16, while Jayesh was sent to judicial custody, to be produced before a special court on September 18 along with prime accused Ashok Kumar.
 
 
