JAIPUR: The   on Tuesday directed Jaipur collector   to examine if   could be supplied to the  , which was presently getting ‘hard water’ that was adversely affecting the bovines there.

 The Jaipur collector, along with officials from the water resources department, is likely to visit the cow shelter for the purpose on Wednesday. The district administration would also undertake a drive to check sale/purchase of polythene from January 30.
 
 Mahajan, along with Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) commissioner Hemant Gera and animal husbandry director Ajay Gupta were present in court when the matter was being heard on Tuesday. The cow shelter had hit national headlines last monsoon when thousands of bovines sheltered there died due to mismanagement.
 
 During the case’s hearing by the bench of Justice Mahesh Chand Sharma on Tuesday, the Akshaya Patra Foundation that was later handed over management of the JMC-owned cow rehabilitation centre told the court that hard water was affecting the animals’ health.   assured the court to explore the possibilities of supplying Bisalpur dam. The animal husbandry department assured the court to soon begin tagging of animals at the rehabilitation centre.
 
 The Foundation suggested that the government set up fodder plant and build fodder godowns at the centre. It also informed the court that its bills were yet to be fully cleared by the JMC.
 
 After hearing all the parties, the court formed a committee of three lawyers to visit the cow shelter to ascertain the claims of improvements made there. The Foundation’s bills would be cleared once the committee submits its report. The matter would be heard again on March 1.
 
 In another matter, the high court postponed the land allotment matter of DPS School for next hearing on February as the case’s investigation officer Yogita Meena sought more time. Former chief minister Ashok Gehlot is one the accused in the matter that pertains to alleged illegal allotment of land in city’s Vidyadhar Nagar to a trust managed by one Ravikant Jaipuria. The matter was being probed by state CID (CB). The petition by Sanjay Garg and others in the matter sought high court’s intervention for a fair probe.
 
 
