Surat: While garba revellers are thronging the streets and indoor venues to swirl and groove on garba tunes, there is a unique venue in the city where women power has taken centre stage. For here, musicians and singers are young girls. 

 Every year Anavil Samaj organizes Navratri festival for its community members residing in the Diamond City. At the venue, only members of Anavil Samaj are allowed and they perform garba for nine nights at the sprawling ground of Dayalji Ashram at Majura Gate. However, this is first time that Anavil Samaj has decided to invite a music band for live performance. Earlier, the members were dancing to the tunes of recorded music played on giant speakers. 
 
 Two young sisters — Mala Patel and Kailash Patel — are major attractions at the garba venue this year. The duo —lead musicians in the band — play various musical instruments, including drums, octopad and keyboard. Three singers — Laxmi Thakore, Apexa Pandya and Vaishali Patel — perform live at the venue every night. The sisters from Navsari have been trained in musical instruments since the past 17 years. Their father Kalubhai Patel and other family members are musicians and play during marriage ceremony, Navratri etc. 
 
 “There is a vast difference in live music performance and recorded music. It requires a lot of energy to continuously play the music for five hours. We are indebted to our father who taught us music. We are grateful to Anavil Samaj leaders for inviting us,” says Mala Patel. 
 
 Laxmi Thakore, who hails from Jambusar, said, “I have been singing in Navratri festival for the last couple of years. This is first time that all the lead musicians and singers are girls. I am very proud that there are people who actually promote women empowerment.” 
 
 Dayalji Kelavani Mandal president Mukesh Desai said, “We do not allow any other community at Dayalji Ashram ground. This is for the first time that we have broken our old tradition and invited music band of girls from other community to promote women empowerment. Believe me, our community members are so happy that we are witnessing more than 10,000 crowd every night.”
 
 
