MANIPAL:   will have two new Pro VCs in   and   – heading separate faculties to better position the University as it endeavours increasingly to make a mark in world rankings. “The last two years have witnessed rapid changes and growth within Manipal University. We are going to sustain this pace over next few years in our pursuit of world rankings,” said  , VC said on Wednesday.

 “With sheer volume of effort involved, it was decided to restructure the University into faculties with effect from April 1, 2017,” Vinod Bhat said, adding there will be three faculties – faculty of health sciences; faculty of technology and management; faculty of humanities, liberal arts and social sciences. While Dr Poornima Baliga will be Pro VC of faculty of health sciences, Gopalakrishna Prabhu will be the Pro VC of technology and management.
 
 Dr Poornima and Gopalkrishna Prabhu will continue to shoulder their present responsibilities as dean, Kasturba Medical College and director, Manipal Institute of Technology respectively. The third faculty will be under the Vice Chancellor.
 
 Faculty of Health Sciences will comprise of KMC, Manipal, KMC, Mangaluru, MCODS Manipal, MCODS, Mangaluru, MMMC, MCON, MCOPS, SOAHS, SOLS, SORM, Bengaluru, department of public health, department of statistics, department of virus research and department of library and information sciences. All the 20 Centers set up in the last 20 months in these streams will be attached to the faculty of health sciences.
 
 Faculty of technology and management will have MIT, Manipal, faculty of architecture, SOIS, ICAS, SOM, WGSHA, WACA, department of allied hospitality studies, department of culinary arts, department of commerce and department of atomic and molecular physics. All 19 centers set up in the above disciplines will be attached to the faculty of technology and management.
 
 Faculty of humanities, liberal arts and social sciences will have School of Communication, department of geopolitics and international relations and department of European Studies.
 
