HYDERABAD: Pharmacy colleges in the state offering   can now breathe a sigh of relief as the   (PCI) has made it optional to have faculty with pharmacognosy specialisation. The new rule says that colleges can now recruit faculty members with MPharm in pharmaceutical chemistry or biotechnology in place of faculty with pharmacognosy specialization.

 In a letter addressed to registrars of   Technological University, Osmania University and Kakatiya University, a clarification was given on two issues — principals doubling up as teachers and recruitment of pharmacognosy faculty. 
 
 “A principal having MPharm, PhD qualification can be considered as professor/HOD of the department and is eligible to teach the subject/specialization concerned in UG and PG courses in pharmacy,” the letter read. 
 
 “Faculty members with MPharm (pharmaceutical chemistry) and MPharm (pharmaceutical biotechnology) are eligible to teach pharmacognosy subjects in UG and PG courses in pharmacy.”
 
 Earlier, PCI made it mandatory for colleges running   courses to have three faculty members with pharmacognosy specialisation. However, citing an acute shortage of qualified candidates in that particular specialisation, colleges said that the rule was difficult to implement and asked PCI to give some relief. The colleges, however, did not get any clarification about student-teacher ratio and lab equipment. 
 
 “We wanted PCI to send clarification about these two issues before Feb 8 so that we can upload details of faculty and principals on time. We are hopeful that once the minutes of the executive committee meeting are released we will get clarification on the rest of the regulations,” said Dr K Ramadas, president of Telangana Pharmacy Colleges Managements Association. “Till now, PCI had common rules for all colleges across the country irrespective of courses. But now, as our parent universities are asking us to implement all the requirements, we requested PCI to give us clarity on course-wise requirements so that it will be easy to implement,” he added.
 
 The pharmacy colleges in Telangana are expecting to get clarity on other regulations by the end of February. There are only two universities in the state -Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad, (JNTUH) with 15 seats and Kakatiya University (KU) with six seats -that provide pharmacognosy courses.
 
 
