Nagpur: The first college allocation list for Std XI online admissions was declared late on Monday night, kick-starting the admission process in city. This is the first time ever that Common Admission Process (CAP) is being done online. Now that colleges have been allotted to students, they can start applying for bifocal seats in that particular institute. Till July 13, all admissions have to be completed as per the first merit list rankings. Students can start changing online college preferences from July 15 onwards, if they have not taken admission as per the first merit list.  While everyone agreed that online CAP added to the transparency of the system, academicians believe that a few more changes can make it even better. Madhusudan Munde, principal of Major Hemant Jakate junior college said, “The online admission process is more efficient and clear process compared to the old one. This will enable student to choose their ideal college directly based on their obtained marks. If a student isn’t happy with the outcome of first round of admission process, he/she could apply for next three rounds to choose their ideal college.” Sapan Nehrotra, lecturer at Jupiter College said, “Students are unaware of new admission process, due to which parents and students are a bit worried. I believe that this process is totally waste because even if there is online admission, centre committee has given all the rights to colleges to divide students in bifocal and general. With the intent of obtaining more profit, there are chances that colleges could mislead students in choosing bifocal.” Rajendra Zade, management member of Navpratibha Junior College said, “Though this online process showed tremendous positive effects in metropolitan cities, I don’t think this process will beneficial for Nagpurains. As we have many small colleges in city, this process will cause shortage of students among them. And as it is a first year of implication, we can’t predict anything more accurately, we have to wait for its outcome.”