KOLKATA: Whoever said pavements belong to pedestrians? Sidewalks in   and   of the city are going at rates so high that pedestrians may soon fear to tread on them lest they be charged with encroachment. 

 A sliver of pavement measuring 10x8 ft along   exchanged hands last month for an eye-popping Rs 25 lakh. That works out to Rs 31,250 per sq ft, more than the going rate for The 42, the bungalow in the sky project around 2 km down the road and one of the costliest piece of real estate in the city.
 
 According to sources in the trading community, a businessman paid the princely sum to purchase the 80 sq ft space under the Grand Arcade balcony. 
 
 “The original quote for the dala (a wooden platform on the footpath used to hawk goods) was Rs 30 lakh. The offer came to me last month but I let it pass. A fortnight ago, someone I know paid Rs 25 lakh to seal the deal,” a New Market trader told TOI.
 
 Crazy though it may sound, the buyer seized the business opportunity as hawkers retailing ready-made garments along this stretch have a daily turnover of Rs 50,000, more than thrice the average sale clocked by traders in New Market. 
 
 The deal doesn’t take place only between the seller and buyer but also involves the local union leaders, politicians and police, all of whom get a pie of the daily sales proceeds. 
 
 According to sources, each dala owner shells out arou-nd Rs 200 per day to various ‘associates’ to ensure trouble-free business.
 
 “The protection fee takes care of all issues. There are no eviction drives or political intervention. Political leaders and police officers are aware of the business and keep off it,” a hawker union leader said.
 
 Two years ago, mayor Sovan Chatterjee was forced to step out of his office and walk the streets around New Market after an agitation by traders from the locality against encroachment of the entire footpath, parking lots and half the road by hawkers. More than 4,000 New Market traders had observed a three-day trade bandh in protest against the menace. After the visit, Chatterjee was forced to admit that the encroachment had crossed all limits and asked police officers to rein them in. Though streets were partially cleared, the hawkers returned after a fortnight.
 
 With huge cash paid to buy the right to hawk on footpaths and roads and a long chain of beneficiaries, it is no surpirse that the hawkers are left untouched. With the stakes getting higher, various unions operating in and around New Market — the most lucrative hawking zone in the city — have come together under an umbrella of a joint hawkers’ forum to protect their interest. 
 
 So lucrative is the hawking business that last year a businessman offered to buy out the owners of six dalas on Bertram Street for a whopping Rs 1.5 crore. He could not clinch the deal because the dala owners stood their ground.
 
 “Bertram Street has a steady flow of customers all day. After 4 pm, it becomes a walking street with hawkers taking more than half the road. So business is brisk all year round. During the festive season, it reaches astronomic proportion,” said another New Market trader. 
 
 Outright sale apart, dalas are also rented out for Rs 25,000 a month at the Grand Arcade; Rs 15,000 a month on Bertram and Lindsay Street and Rs 7,000 a month on Hogg Street. 
 
 Till a couple of years ago, a quasi-legal system was in place to ensure a smooth transaction of public space. Agreements on non-judicial stamp paper, similar to ones used to draw up sales agreements for a house or shop, with terms chalked out in legal language, were drawn up. After TOI exposed one such deal at Bertram Street between Md Parvez Alam and Md Iqbal that had taken place in 2010, written sale deeds were dispensed with to avoid legal hassle.
 
