DEHRADUN: Faced with dissent in many   where party workers were denied ticket, both the Congress and the BJP have together expelled over 160 functionaries till now. Sources said that both parties may expel more members who were found to have campaigned against the party.
 
  Since the Congress released its list of candidates on January 22, the party has shown the door to over 100 members for anti-party activities while the BJP expelled over 60 leaders and their supporters after announcing its list.
  
  More expulsions are in the offing as the Congress state unit has written to chiefs in all 13 districts to expel those who went against the party line during the election.
  
  Talking to TOI, Congress state spokesperson Mathura Dutt Joshi said, “All members who have gone against the party lines - either by contesting as independents or by campaigning against the party - will not be spared.” He said that not just the state unit but also the disciplinary wing of the party was keeping an eye on the developments. “Till date we have expelled over 100 members and the number is expected to rise in the next few weeks,” he said.
  
  The Congress had undertaken a similar exercise in 2012, when over 50 senior leaders, including Mantri Prasad Naithani, Harish Chandra Durgapal, Dinesh Dhanai and Ambarish Kumar were expelled. The four heavyweights, after being denied ticket by the Congress, had contested as independent candidates. Except for Kumar, the other three won elections and also went on to become ministers in the Harish Rawat government.
  
  In 2017 elections as well, the party had to crack the whip on over 100 members, including   and Aryendra Sharma. Both are contesting as independent candidates from Devprayag and Sahaspur respectively.
  
  In Dehradun alone, the party has expelled 65 members, out of which maximum were from Sahaspur assembly seat. In the latest instance, 30 members, including former Dehradun district chief Deen Mohammad and state secretary Ram Singh Maurya, were thrown out on February 17.
  
  The BJP camp also witnessed revolt on many seats, especially the ones where party workers were denied tickets to accommodate Congress turncoats. After the candidates were announced, 60 workers were expelled for six years for indulging in anti-party activities. The members were expelled for filing their nomination papers or for supporting rebel candidates during campaigning.
  
  BJP state general secretary, Naresh Bansal, said, “The decision was taken only after all talks with rebel workers failed.”
  
  The prominent leaders to be expelled included Surat Ram Nautiyal in Gangotri, Asha Ram Nautiyal in Kedarnath and Om Gopal Rawat in Narendra Nagar.
  
  The BJP, however, maintained that the rebels would not dent chances of party candidates. BJP’s electoral vice president, Jyoti Parsad Gairola, said, “Without the backing of the party organization, the rebels who were expelled stand no chance against the party nominees.”
