Nagpur: In preparation for President Ram Nath Kovind’s visit on September 22 to inaugurate the Suresh Bhat Auditorium at Reshimbagh, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is taking up numerous works in this usually neglected part of the city. Most works, though, are happening only close to the auditorium. NMC workers were working on fixing potholes, street lights, sidewalks, painting dividers, and planting medians (dividers) with grass, marigold saplings and other plants on the route the presidential convoy is expected to take. Residents of the locality are happy that NMC is paying attention to their neglected area. “Until last year, we only saw facelift of south-west and west Nagpur, especially around Vidhan Bhavan periphery and alongside Wardha Road. But this time we are happy that NMC has undertaken beautification works in this part of the city,” said Mahesh Tidke, a resident of Juni Shukrawari. TOI also found that NMC is working overtime to cover manholes on the stormwater network that were lying damaged for last many years. Shakuntala Shirbhate, a resident, pointed out, “Since we too pay NMC taxes, we too deserve good roads, and footpaths. But since years, our area remained neglected. We are happy that this part of the city is finally getting a facelift,” she said, citing the example of a footpath being constructed alongside the cement road. Though construction of cement road was completed a year ago, the footpaths are being constructed only now, pointed out Shirbhate. NMC’s intensive beautification drive here is being implemented by some 500 employees, who are also unclogging drains, clearing bushes, and cutting grass along the Suresh Bhat Auditorium premises. As part of the drive, the roads around the venue are being washed, grills cleaned and potholes on service lanes repaired. All entry and exit points on this stretch will be manned during the arrival of high-profile guests. To a query, a senior NMC official admitted they have to carry out scheduled maintenance every November, ahead of the winter session of state’s legislature, and only concentrate on west Nagpur. However, in view of the President’s visit, they have started works early this year and included Reshimbagh area too. “The central barrier, grills, and the greenery is being spruced up. Service lanes and roadsides are being cleaned,” the official said. Footpaths along the Great Nag Road — especially the patch between Ashok Square and Jai Bhole Ganesh Chowk — are being repaired. Major junctions such as Medical College Square, Ashok Chowk, Ajni Square are being refurbished. The high-mast lights on the entire route that the President’s convoy could take were checked and some lights were repaired to ensure that there is no hitch during the President’s visit.