RAIPUR: Citizens have come up with innovative ideas for Raipur   project under the '36 Chhattisgarhi' initiative launched by   (RMC) recently. The ideas selected will get funding to develop a smart city with unique facilities for the public. 

 The '36 Chhattisgarhi' project has received several ideas related to making city energy efficient and conserve environment. City residents have posted their suggestions on a web portal www.mygov.in launched for the purpose.
 
 Priyanka Indolia, a city resident, suggested that solar panels should be installed on the houses, flats and petrol pumps to make the city self-reliant on clean energy.
 
 Another resident   is of the view that all diesel vehicles should be phased out and new diesel vehicles should be banned in a phased manner over the next five years. 
 
 "Speed-breakers must be constructed on every road before every crossing to avoid accidents. There should be a metro train and buses should ply on outer and inner ring road clockwise and anti-clockwise. To reduce pollution levels and to manage the traffic, footpaths and exclusive cycle lanes should be developed to encourage people to walk and cycle. Many of us want to do so, but are not able to do so in the absence of dedicated lanes."
 
 Ramnath Karnataki maintained, "Every residential project with more than 10 houses should have a compost pit for disposal of organic waste. Local bodies can provide some concession on property tax for developing such facilities." 
 
 Onam Patle said, "There is no proper waste disposal facility in the city. A plasma gasification plant should be set up for proper waste disposal." Sudhir Bansal proposed the idea of developing herbal chaupals. He said that Chhattisgarh is a herb rich state and there is a provision for the 'chaupals' in Smart City project. 
 
 Herbal 'chaupals' or platforms should be developed across major market areas where tribals can display and sell their herbal products. 
 
 These major junctions could be advertised through social media and must be well connected with internet and ATM. 
 
