CHENNAI: The Madras high court has declined to quash the Enforcement Directorate (ED) summonses to Karthi, son of former Union minister  , and directors of Advantage Strategic Consulting Pvt Ltd, saying all 2G spectrum scam-related cases are being directly monitored by the Supreme Court.

 Pointing out that the apex court had specifically ousted the jurisdiction of all other courts in the country in entertaining any matter pertaining to the scam, Justice B Rajendran dismissed a batch of writ petitions filed by Karti and others against the ED summonses to them. The judge also rejected an affidavit filed by P Chidambaram, who had claimed that the ED searches were politically motivated to malign his family reputation.
 
 Justice Rajendran refused to interfere with the ED summonses and investigation. “As the investigation carried on by the ED is being monitored by the Supreme Court, which is seized of the investigation, this court cannot entertain these writ petitions. As far as this case is concerned, when the jurisdiction of this court has been ousted by an express order passed by the Supreme Court, it cannot pass any orders in these writ petitions, thereby directly or indirectly impeding the investigation carried on by ED,” he said.
 
 While the company and its directors wanted the searches and summonses to be declared illegal, the ED raised a preliminary objection saying the high court had no jurisdiction to hear the case since it was related to the 2G spectrum scam case lying before the special court in Delhi besides the Supreme Court. In an unusual gesture, Chidambaram too filed an affidavit attributing motive to the searches.
 
 However, concurring with the ED, Justice Rajendran rejected senior counsel Gopal Subramaniam’s argument that the ED had no jurisdiction to probe the matter and that no predicate offence had been made out against them. The judge said, “this submission cannot be countenanced at this stage. Unless an investigation is carried out by the department, it cannot be concluded whether any predicated offence has been made out or not. It is too early on the part of the petitioners to contend that they have not committed any predicated offence warranting an investigation by the respondents.”
 
 More importantly, the judge said the ED complaint had clearly stated that investigation was required to be carried out relating to the manner in which FIPB approval had been granted by the then finance minister… “the ED has got every right to continue the investigation and to file a supplementary charge sheet. Such a course of action adopted by the ED cannot be restrained by this court by entertaining these writ petitions, especially when the entire case is monitored by the Supreme Court.”
 
 The prosecution’s argument that the investigation carried on by the ED against the petitioners was “relatable and referable” to 2G spectrum case and that, consequently, the high court has no jurisdiction to entertain these writ petitions is “acceptable”, said Justice Rajendran, adding: “It is well open to the ED to seek any documents. Reliability or necessity of such documents cannot be questioned by the petitioners in these writ petitions, at this stage.”
 
 The petitioners had challenged the validity of the searches and the consequential charges slapped on them under the Prevention of   Act (PMLA), the   Management Act (FEMA), 1999 and the   Act.
 
 
