Raja Bhaiya, who would probably not waste time in niceties like getting in touch with cops had the matter been local, has alleged that Chhabria accepted Rs 1.24 crore for a   but failed to deliver the vehicle

 Legend has it that he feeds people who cross his path to crocodiles in a private pond inside his   in Pratapgarh. His name spells terror in Uttar Pradesh. But then, Mumbai spares none. 
 
  Raghuraj Pratap Singh, alias  , who has multiple cases of abduction, murder, attempt-to-murder, and land grabbing against him, has accused Mumbai-based car designer Dilip Chhabria of cheating. A police complaint on his behalf in this connection has been filed by his father  . 
 
 Raja Bhaiya, who would not have wasted time in niceties like getting in touch with the cops had the matter been local, has alleged that Dilip Chhabria after accepting Rs 1.24 crore from him for a modified ISUZU 4500 WB luxury van has failed to deliver the vehicle. Chhabria, however, claims that he has received only Rs 1.01 crore from Raja Bhaiya's family of the total cost of the van. He claims that Raja Bhaiya asked for several extra features which escalated the cost of the vehicle to Rs 1.25 crore. But instead of paying the excess amount, the Kunda MLA filed a police complaint. Chhabria, however, on Wednesday said that the matter has been resolved and that the luxury home-on-wheels would soon be on its way to Kunda. 
 
 Interiors of the modified version of ISUZU 4500 WB luxury van that Raja Bhaiya had ordered
 
 
  
 
 Raja Bhaiya and his father Raja Uday Pratap Singh met representatives Dilip Chhabria's DC Designs in December 2015 and placed an order for the van. Raja Bhaiya, in his complaint registered at the Kunda police station, has said that he paid Rs 1.25 crore in installments for the van. DC Designs was supposed to deliver the van in mid-2016. But despite several reminders, the van, which boasts of a lounge, a bedroom and pantry, was not delivered to the family, the complaint says. 
 
 Raja Bhaiya, who is a six-term MLA from Kunda and has held several portfolios in various UP government is known for his love for fast cars, microlite aircraft and horses. The police complaint against Chhabaria and several representatives of DC Design, which is based out of Andheri, was filed in the third week of April this year. 
 
 Senior Police Inspector of Kunda police station A K Singh confirmed an FIR has been lodged against DC Design.
 
