HUBBALLI: As the government is taking time to announce   as a  , activists, writers and seers from all over   are coming together under one banner to exert pressure on the government to look into this issue on priority.

 Social activist S R Hiremath and several others, under the banner of Jana Sangram Parishat, are all set to start a day-and-night dharna in Gadag for three days from Monday. Seer Siddalingaswami of  , Gadag will also lead the dharna. Writer Devanur Mahadev, Chamarasamali Patil, Ravi Krishna Raddi, Raghavendra Kushtagi and others will take part.
 
 The people are very upset at the way in which the government is handling the issue. Activists, environmentalists and people of Gadag and surrounding villages are focusing on the state government’s wildlife board to discuss and give its opinion on declaring Kappatgudda a conservation reserve. The   and the Gadag district administration have submitted its report on the public consultation meeting held to collect public opinion on January 16 at Dambal where 249 people gave their petitions. Of these, 217 people were in favour of declaring it a conservation reserve while 32 had opposed it. 
 
 But, the delay on the part of the state government to convene a meeting to discuss the report has angered people. Their wish to see it a reserve gained more weightage since district in-charge minister H K Patil showed interest in declaring it a conservation reserve.
 
 Earlier, bowing to pressure from people, government had issued a notification declaring Kappatgudda a conservation reserve area on December 19, 2015. But the state government withdrew this notification November 4, stating ithat public consultation was not held before declaring it as a conservation reserve. It had forced people, seers and environmentalist to protest against the decision .
 
 Coming under the pressure, the CM asked the district administration to conduct a public consultation meeting to collect public opinion on this issue. As per the government instruction, Gadag district administration and the forest department conducted a public consultation meeting on January, 16, at Dambal. Many people had participated in the meet and expressed their opinion in favour of declaring Kappatagudda as conservation reserve. 
 
 S R Hiremath told TOI, “Kappatgudda should be protected as a conservation reserve. During the public consultation meeting, many elected representatives, activists, environmentalists and others attended and gave their opinion to protect it as a conservation reserve. The government is not taking any interest in this issue. Local people, organizations and seer Tontadarya Swami are joining us to step up pressure on the state government. After three days of dharna, if the government fails to take any decision, we’ll continue our fight to take it to the logical end.”
 
 
