LUDHIANA: Having witnessed one of the biggest  ,  's industrial area branch in Ludhiana hasn't changed much since the incident that took place 30 years back.
 
 On Tuesday,   had acquitted nine persons accused of masterminding Rs 5.7crore robbery that rocked PNB branch on February 12, 1987.
 
 Notably, the double-storey building of the bank still retains the old shape and colour as it was 30 years back.
 
 As one enters the bank on the left is the bank's chest from where the cash was looted by the robbers. Unlike the other banks of the city, that have bare minimum security, this branch has been provided five police personnel by Ludhiana police and is now guarded round the clock.
 
 This branch sees a huge footfall of customers as it is located near several commercial areas.
 
 But three decades after the high profile crime, not even a single employee of the bank has any first-hand account of the incident or knows any of the employees who were witness to the crime. However, many of them recall the incident as they heard from others and read in newspapers.
 
 A former bank employee, who lives nearby and was in the branch to withdraw his pension, recalled that at the time of the incident he was posted in Khanna and was passing through the branch to go to his duty that day. “I was a bit surprised to see trucks parked outside the bank. Later I was shocked when I heard that the branch had been robbed of Rs 5.7 crores by miscreants who had arrived at the branch in trucks. After decamping with the money, they had dis tributed cash amongst themselves which they had filled in briefcases, sacks and quilt covers and had then escaped in separate vehicles.
 
 Meanwhile, it is learnt that the   (CBI), the agency which was investigating this case, had been given a room permanently in the PNB's guest house adjoining the branch since their officers still visited the city for formalities and examining the case property.
 
 A   personnel is still stationed in the guest room to coordinate with CBI officers whenever they come. He, however, refused to speak to visitors saying that he does not know anything about the incident and is also not authorized to speak to media.
 
 But one can still witness a fleet of vehicles dumped in the parking lot. The open parking lot which has turned into a small jungle houses two trucks, a matador, two Fiat car, two Maruti cars and a scooter, which are now part of the case property.
 
 THE BIG ROBBERY
 
 A day after Rs 5.7 crore heist, news reports had described the incident as the biggest daylight bank robbery of India. Later to be probed by the CBI, the twohour long heist involved around 20 terrorists. Posing as cops, six of them had entered the bank at 9.10 am under the pretext of checking the security arrangement.Later when the employees started arriving, the armed intruders had asked them to sit down and lower her head.After collecting the cash, they had locked bank employees and clients inside the strong room and went away in two matadors and one Fiat car. All the robbers were aged between 20-40 years.
 
