THANE: The awareness drives on water conservation held last year created a long-lasting impression on the minds of Thaneites, as most of them continue to save water this year as well and choose to play a dry and eco-friendly  . 

 Manohar Kataria, the secretary of Tarangan society in Thane said, “Holi is celebrated to mark the victory over evil. Then how can we be evil to our environment? It’s our duty to keep the environment safe and secure. We faced a draught-like situation last year and nobody wants a repeat. We all have decided to celebrate by showering each other with flower petals and   herbal colours. We are also providing residents with these colours.” 
 
 Another resident Madhu Menon from Hiranandani Estate on Ghodbunder Road said, “We too shall be playing Holi with dry and eco-frienly colours. We have urged our residents to avoid water balloons and instead play Holi using just  . We have also requested residents of the other buildings in our complex to not use water this year as well.”
 
 Whether it is by playing with eco-friendly colours and flower petals or just reducing or completely curbing their use of water, these residents of various complexes intend to keep this tradition alive for the coming years as well.
 
 “We have been playing an eco-friendly Holi for last four years and a dry Holi for the past three years. We enjoy it even more abd we plan to continue in the years ahead as well. The main reason of celebrating a festival is to come together and spend some time knowing each other, it does’nt really matter how you do it. By playing with dry colours we think we are saving some water for the days ahead,” said Parag Walanj, a resident of Thane’s Brahmand area.
 
 “I don’t understand why people want to hurl water balloons on each other, that only hurts. You are not celebrating a festival to get hurt. These chemical colours only give allergies. We have been requesting everyone in our society to give up on water balloons and instead go for eco-friendly colours,” said Pankaja Ahire from a housing complex in Vartak Nagar.
 
 Holi is celebrated to mark the victory over evil. Then how can we be evil to our environment? It’s our duty to keep the environment safe and secure. We decided to celebrate Holi using flower petals and eco-friendly herbal colours
 
 
