MEERUT: A sigh of relief swept through the Western UP region for the   candidates with the announcement of RLD that it will go alone in the   and will not be part of the proposed grand alliance. The candidates have got a fresh lease of life and the mention of their names in the updated list of 191 candidates on Friday has lifted their sagging spirits. West UP with a sizable population of Jats (18%) is considered to be the stronghold of RLD with Baghpat as the epicentre. An alliance would have certainly resulted in the cancellation of these leaders’ tickets.
 
  Speaking with TOI, SP candidate from Baghpat, Kuldeep Ujjwal, said, “Had there been an alliance, my ticket would have certainly been cancelled as Baghpat is a stronghold of RLD. But now with formal announcement by the RLD leadership that it will go alone in the polls, all SP candidates of the region are upbeat and can get into the campaign mode with full throttle.”
  
  On Thursday afternoon, all efforts of the party to forge an alliance with SP-Congress combine failed and the party announced to go it alone. According to reports, RLD wanted more than 35 seats while the SP was not willing to concede more than 20. According to the sources in the RLD, there are close to 80 seats in western UP districts where Jat influence dominates the vote-bank politics.
  
  Another seat, for instance, is Nahtor assembly constituency in Bijnor with close to 35,000 Jat voters.
  
  “Although the party had announced my candidature from Nahtor, I was more than sure that the seat would go to the RLD in case the grand alliance comes into existence. Because of this, my campaign efforts so far were half-hearted. But now I will go to the voters with full confidence,” said a beaming Munna Lal Premi, SP candidate from Nahtor.
  
  Now with uncertainty hovering over the fate of SP-Congress alliance as well, candidates are keeping their fingers crossed.
  
  According to the sources in Congress, the party had demanded   seat, but in the list released on Friday, SP has announced   as its official candidate. However, he played it safe, saying, “I had been assured of this seat months ago and I have been consistently working in my constituency. There is no doubt that I deserve to fight from my region on a SP ticket but the party’s decision is final. I do not have to say anything on the proposed alliance.”
