When love is in the air, it’s always good to have romance on your plate. Foods that promote that lovin’ feeling have been around since the time of the ancient Greeks, if not earlier. While some — like chocolate or whipped cream — have dubious nutritive value even if they make you feel good, there are other healthier options that boost the feel-good chemicals in your brain. These chemicals include dopamine and  . Other foods boost your energy levels. So if you are going to shop for foods this Valentine’s, here are some healthy choices...

 
 This peppery passion food has been thought of an aphrodisiac for over 2,000 years. Brimming with antioxidants and minerals that help fight environmental contaminants (that interfere with the libido), you can use this versatile food as a main salad or as a crunchy side dish. 
 
 
 This little green man has got the V-Day nod since the time of the Aztecs. While there is some debate over whether it’s a genuine aphrodisiac, there is absolutely no debate about its health benefits: high levels of vitamin E and energy booster. 
 
  
  
 
 
 Cherries brim with ‘happy’ vitamins like A, C and E, not to mention minerals like potassium, iron, magnesium and more. It also has an antioxidant (melatonin), which helps with regulating heart function. 
 
 
 It was the Greeks who believed that olive oil boosted male virility. It also helps with the production of hormones, with blood flow, and contributes to a healthy heart. 
 
 
 This little red jewel works well for the flow of blood, apart from being a versatile and delicious food.
 
 
 High in magnesium, pumpkin seeds have been known to increase testosterone in the blood stream.
 
 
 A more familiar addition to the love menu, strawberries are packed with vitamin C, great for blood flow to all parts of the body.
 
 
 This luscious fruit is associated with pumping up circulation and relaxing blood vessels. Additionally, lycopene, a powerful antioxidant, loves watermelon so much that it’s made quite a home for itself in it. Eat watermelon to be both healthy and happy. 
 
 
 
 
