RANCHI: Smriti (name changed) would often hear voices, conspiring against her. She complained about this to her husband, an engineer with a reputed private firm but he refused to believe her. When the complaints grew, so did the arguments at home. Her husband decided to relocate to Ranchi. Smriti again complained of the sounds that she could hear but also about people following her round the clock. 

  (name changed) had visions of God giving him commands. A resident of Mudma village in Ratu block of Ranchi, he used to be the centre of attraction during village fests as he would talk to God about the villagers. Few months later, he stopped taking questions from devotees but continued murmuring. He was thrashed several times by the villagers, who thought he was abusing them and that he had no special powers.
 
 Both cases are examples of severe mental disorder, known as schizophrenia but often mistaken for 'godly powers' or 'creating wilful nuisance' to disturb others. Both the patients were finally brought to Ranchi Institute of Neuropsychiatry and Allied Sciences (Rinpas) and are undergoing treatment.
 
 Dr  , a psychiatrist from Rinpas, said though rehabilitation of patients suffering with schizophrenia is a big challenge the patients can be treated to lead a life on their own. "It's one of the most severe manifestations of mental disorder, symptoms of which are clear to   experts but often diagnosed very late by family members," he said.
 
 Schizophrenics see a different world around them. Starting with auditory and visual hallucinations they often reach a stage where their ability to interpret senses decreases and they are unable to support their day to day personal needs. 
 
 Several such cases have also reached the   (CIP) at Ranchi and patients have obtained very long treatment regime. Quoting figures of National Mental Health Survey (NMHS), assistant professor of psychiatry at   said there is a huge treatment gap for schizophrenics in the state. "Out of 33% patients suffering with severe mental disorder in the state, nearly 66% schizophrenics have no access to expert help," he said. 
 
 At least 11.13% of the population are found to suffer with some sort of mental turbidity out of which 0.23% patients suffer with schizophrenia and other psychotic disorder. "As per NMHS-2016 incience of schizophrenia is more in urban metros and rural Jharkhand whereas no case was reported from non-metro urban areas," Goyal said.
 
