NEW DELHI:   jumped to a five-month high in August on the back of rising food prices, while industrial growth made a mild recovery in July from the impact of pre-GST de-stocking by companies in the previous month, data showed on Tuesday.

 The acceleration in retail prices is likely to prompt the   (RBI) to hold interest rates when it reviews monetary policy in October. Data released by the   (CSO) showed retail inflation, as measured by the consumer price index (CPI) rose an annual 3.4% in August, higher than previous month's 2.4%. Retail inflation had hit record lows which had led to calls for sharp rate cuts.
 
 The RBI has consistently flagged rising inflationary pressures as an obstacle to cutting rates.
 
 Vegetable prices firmed up, rising an annual 9.9% in August and housing prices rose nearly 6% during the year.Economist said they expect the RBI to hold rates for now.
 
 “Will the RBI cut rates?
 
 Probably not now considering that there is an upward bias to inflation. The move last time was a bit surprising as inflation was poised to increase after GST but the RBI chose to decrease rates. Hence, it may cut rates later, but not in October. This may not help growth until demand recovers and in vestment picks up,“ said  , chief economist at Care Ratings.
 
 Separate data showed, industrial output rose an annual 1.2% in July, led by expansion in mining and electricity sectors. Industrial growth contracted 0.2% in June. The manufacturing sector remained sluggish, while the capital goods sector, a key gauge of industrial activity, contracted 1% compared to a growth of 8% in the same month last year.
 
 “With the impact of demonetisation waning, imp lementation of GST behind us and the festival season round the corner, IIP growth would improve over the next few months,“ said  , principal economist at India Ratings.
 
 “However, this growth pickup is unlikely to reach high single digit on a sustained basis notwithstanding that monsoon has been reasonably good so far and employees of several state governments are likely to get benefit of 7th pay commission's recommendation,“ Sinha added.
 
