NEW DELHI: Delhi University’s   ( ) will start with its online admission process for its five   from June 1.

 SOL currently offers 10 courses for undergraduate and postgraduate degrees. The undergraduate degrees include BA (Programme), BA Political Science(H), BA English(H), BCom(H) and B.Com (Programme). “Last year approximately 1.4 lakh students had enrolled in the five undergraduate courses,” said HC Pokhriyal, executive director of SOL.
 
 The institute will release its prospectus along with the application form on its website sol.du.ac.in. While the last date for application is July 31, students can apply after paying a penalty fee of Rs 100 till August 31 and Rs 200 till September 15.
 
 Most students who opt for SOL pursue multiple courses or take up jobs alongside to support their families. “Students who apply for BCom often pursue chartered accountancy (CA) or company secretary (CS) courses alongside. Students pursuing BA (Hons) often opt for fashion designing or fine arts courses. This way they can specialise in multiple courses within three years,” said an administrative official at SOL.
 
 The fees at SOL for students residing in India are lower as compared to other   colleges offering regular courses. “The minimal fees ensure that students from all financial backgrounds get a chance to pursue higher studies in the course of their choice,” said Pokhriyal.
 
 The annual fees for general category students for BA Programme is Rs 3,430, BA(H) English and BCom (Programme) Rs 3,530, BA(H) political science Rs 3,630 and BCom (H) Rs 3,830. The fees are lower for reserved categories.
 
 The institute offers video lectures and access to library both online and offline. Most of the study materials can be accessed on its website. SOL does not have a cutoff list like regular colleges and the eligibility criterion for students is lower. The highest eligibility criterion in 2016 was for BA English(H) at 65% aggregate with at least 75% in English Core or 65% in English Elective or Functional English.
 
 The eligibility for the rest of the courses was 60% or below. The new prospectus will carry all the details regarding eligibility and guidelines for the admission process.
 
 
