Nagpur: Ten plays of ten minute duration each by ten writers and directors formed an eclectic mix of humour, drama and philosophy at the VII edition of Sugar & Spice staged by   on Friday evening at Chitnavis Centre.

 Writers and directors in the age group of 18 to 25 years made their short presentations that were brought to life with livewire acting. 
 
 Starting with ‘The Appetite’ written by Shefali Hardas a Std XII student and directed by Pranay, the story bordered on the scary as a hungry man looks for some food in a restaurant that could have been haunted. The second presentation was a sassy statement on feminism. ‘Of Feminist and Flat Tyres’ written by Bianca was tongue-in-cheek take on women empowerment.
 
 Ayushie’s story ‘The Hostel Life’ showed the tricks young girls living in hostel play on their parents while ‘The Birthday Present’ written and directed by Moiz Haque was a not-so-serious take on parenting that had the audience actually sighing with relief as the father decides to withdraw the rather unconventional gift he had planned for his son’s coming of age birthday.
 
 Keeping to contemporary themes, the play ‘Human Resource’ written by Raveesh dealt with the slimy side of an HR manager while ‘Chakkar Mein Phase Ghanchakkar’ was a hilarious spoof on saas-bahu serials. Written by Eshan Sharma, the play had audience in splits as it poked fun at not just the plots on which tele serials revolve but also the players.
 
 ‘The Blackberry Bush’, ‘Johnny is Late’ and ‘The Drunk’, ‘The Scared’ and ‘The Elevated’ were based on varied themes revolving from fantasy to ephemeral thoughts.
 
 The clear show stealer was ‘Bittu Bechara’ written by Nitish and directed by Shantanu. The story veered around homosexuality and culminated at inter-religion acceptance. The racy ride brought the house down with not just quick wit dialogues but commendable body language and acting by the cast.
 
 Starting off as a platform for budding writers and directors, Stagecraft Adda has bloomed into a fine repository of talent. “Out of the seven editions of Sugar & Spice, three have been held this year, such is the rush of young talent flooding this adda,” said theatre director actor Vikash Khurana, the founder of Stagecraft.
 
 
