PANAJI: With the D-Day approaching,   seems inclined to go with   in the event of a hung assembly, sources said. Enquiries by TOI revealed that following reassessment of the political situation, MGP appears in favour of aligning with   in case no party gets a majority. In the house of 40, the magic figure is 21 to form the government.

 “Well decide only on March 11 after the results,” party president Pandurang ‘Deepak’ Dhavalikar said. He nonetheless, agreed that MGP would prefer to go with “like-minded” party though he didn't want to name BJP. The buzz in the political circles is that Goa is heading for a fractured mandate. But with so much of uncertainty over the “silent votes”, it is not clear which party will emerge as the single largest one.
 
 The possibility of a hung assembly brings into focus the role of MGP. Goa’s oldest regional party,  , had projected Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar as the next CM. Now as the dust has settled down, it appears the party is not sure of getting more than five to six seats. Considering that it would not stand a chance of leading a coalition, Dhavalikar, according to sources, prefers to join hands with like-minded BJP than the  .
 
 In an interview with a TV channel, Dhavalikar seemed to have agreed with BJP’s point of view on two issues—casinos and MoI. “We cannot cancel casino licences as they would go to the court and get a stay. But we’ll try to get them out of the Mandovi,” he said.
 
 On MoI, Dhavalikar said it is not easy to withdraw grants to the 134 Diocesan society-run primary schools. 
 
 Since 2000, MGP has manoevured itself well to remain in power and that too with major portfolios like PWD and transport in almost every dispensation. But the question is whether BJP will welcome MGP winners with open arms. The answer to that question is ‘No’. Going by what former CM Manohar Parrikar had said a month ago, the party will tread the path cautiously as far as MGP is concerned. If BJP needs three MLAs or less to form the government, they would prefer some others rather than MGP. Parrikar in an interview with TOI last month had said that “it’s time to keep MGP out of government”.
 
 No doubt, MGP leaders have a good equation with Union minister for transport and highways  , but, according to sources, Parrikar will try to keep them out unless there’s no other alternative. 
 
 There’s also a possibility that MGP may join BJP only if Parrikar heads the government. Dhavalikars had said that Parsekar was not acceptable as the chief minister. 
 
 As for Congress, there are too many senior leaders. In such a situation, no other party gets convinced of any assurance given by its leaders, sources say. Secondly, non-Congress camps feel that going by the manner in which Congress leaders didn’t work for a strong pre-poll alliance and lacked the killer instinct in the last leg of campaign, not much can be expected from them to keep BJP out of power, after the results.
 
