MUMBAI: Onion prices sank to their lowest this season at Rs 460 per quintal at Lasalgaon market yard in Nashik on Friday . It takes about Rs 950 to produce a quintal of onions.

 Lasalgaon, the largest onion market in the country , is witnessing a glut. It is receiving 40,000 quintals of red onions daily against an average 12,000-15,000 quintals every day . The bumper crop has resulted in traders demanding more railway wagons to transport onions to other parts of the state and country.
 
 On Monday too, the rate was ranging from Rs 330 to Rs 600, depending on the quality and size of the crop. At the moment, stocks enough for four days' business are piled up at Lasalgaon and will require at least 40 rakes to transport. The traders have got only get 15 wagons so far.
 
 “There has been a close to four times jump in the amount of crop that comes to the market yard.But there has not been any increase in the transportation facilities despite writing to the government,“ said Jaydutta Holkar, chairman of the Lasalgaon APMC. If the traders were to use road transport, they would require 200 trucks per day , as they can carry only 20 tonnes each. They are also more expensive than the railway wagons.
 
 The situation outside the farmers bringing truckloads of produce and not finding even a place to park.
 
 “The shelf life of these red onions is one month and currently, it is peak harvest season.Farmers are being forced to accept whatever price as the shelf life is so low and they cannot afford storage costs,“ said an APMC official.
 
 This year, the onion crop has been unrewarding for farmers because of high production.Huge losses were also reported due to the four-day traders' strike at Lasalgaon in August 2016.
 
 The summer onion crop, whose season ended in October, also fetched low prices. Lack of proper storage facilities and a skewed supply-demand ratio meant that farmers recorded a cumulative loss of 20 lakh tonnes of the summer crop.
 
 The state decision to give Rs 100 per quintal to farmers hasn't worked out yet since the Centre, supposed to foot half the bill, has not approved the scheme.
 
 
