HYDERABAD: It took a giant from England to breach  's citadel this season. After having withstood the onslaught of five teams, the hosts finally tasted a loss at their favourite haunt 足 Rajiv Gandhi International Cricket Stadium 足 here on Saturday evening.

 Big Ben stoked Rising Pune Supergiant's 12-run win and thereby strengthen their position in the points table. Stokes all-round show (25-ball 39, 330 and two catches) was supplemented with a brilliant hat-trick by left-arm seamer Jaidev Undakat (530). Pune have 16 points with two games left, while Sunrisers are left in pursuit of a place in the playoffs.
 
 
 
 
 Chasing what turned out to be a tricky 149 for victory, Hyderabad openers   and Shikhar Dhawan gave their side a good start but two quick strikes by Stokes in the fifth over pegged the charge.
 
 Warner and Yuvraj Singh kept their side in the hunt with a 64-run stand for the third wicket before Stokes again came into play. The English all-rounder had the dangerous looking Warner (40), who became the first batsmen to score 500 plus runs in four successive   seasons, caught by Shardul Thakur.
 
 It was left to Yuvraj to ensure a win for his side and the southpaw almost obliged. Yuvraj (47) kept pace with the scoring till Unadkat joined the party. The left-arm pacer struck twice in the 18th over and then mopped up the tail with a hat-trick in the final over to clinch the issue for his side.
 
 Earlier, put into bat, Pune batsmen struggled to come to terms with the conditions. The ball stopped and came to the bat and that made stroke play extremely difficult.
 
 Rahul Tripathi (1) was denied the chance to play his natural game. As a result, he lost patience and attempted a single where there was none to be run out by Bipul Sharma's direct hit from short fine leg.
 
 The progress was very slow as runs came in singles and an odd two. The first boundary 足 a six 足 of the innings came in the sixth over when   hit Moises Henriques over the long on fence.
 
 Smith, who lived a charmed life, struggled to score runs but the arrival of   eased the pressure on the captain. The big-hitting Stokes did the bulk of the scoring as the duo added 60 for the third wicket. Stokes used the long handle to good effect as he struck Bipul for three sixes to perk up the scoring. 
 
