MUMBAI: Languages have always played a vital role in communication but their utility has now gone beyond that. In today’s global economy, knowing a foreign language can give students added advantage that may help them score over other candidates at that coveted job interview. 

 Students who have higher education in foreign languages are in great demand in multinational companies and multinational organizations. Besides, they can work as specialist in foreign language, work in schools as teachers or in various institutions as interpreters and translators. Learning foreign languages can also land you jobs in entertainment organizations, tourism departments and public relations firms. Besides,   experts are in demand in public sectors like  , agencies of  , ministry of external affairs and embassies.
 
 Jahanvi P K, a Spanish translator at DHL Global Forwarding, said, “Along with my post-graduation course, I did a three-year diploma in Spanish. Knowing a foreign language has always been a plus point in getting a job. It also ensures a better pay cheque. Besides the professional benefits, a foreign language, if you like travelling, helps explore the world.”
 
 Ankita Gujar, center coordinator at Alliance Française de Bombay said, “Foreign languages are taught for different tasks like speaking, listening, writing and reading. In our institution, it’s not a rote-learning approach, you’re taught to have situational conversations from Day one. For example, if you’re studying a foreign language as a corollary to your main educational degree—say an MBA or engineering with French—you can study further in France for a master’s degree in the field of technical education and start working in research and development or at management positions.” Further, she added, as Indian companies have invested in industries overseas or have their set-up abroad, Indian managers or administrative staff have to essentially know the language and culture of that particular nation for better communication. 
 
 Students graduating in social sciences with foreign language certifications, like a Delf or Dalf, can find jobs in international NGOs and IGO’s such as the World Trade Organization, International Labour Organization and United Nations—almost all this organizations require the knowledge of English, French and/or Spanish. 
 
 “Learning foreign language with another professional course helps. Especially if you’re planning to work in corporate fields like banking or IT, having knowledge of the profession and a foreign language makes you an intermediator,” said Padmavati Iyer, French translator in Capgemini
 
 
