Two days after a Mumbai Mirror reader exposed how off-duty railway policemen ran a racket at  ,   by charging them fines without giving them receipts, four Government   (GRP) constables have been caught on   from the station.

 The GRP constables, dressed in civil clothes, would round up ticketless commuters or able-bodied men caught travelling in compartments reserved for handicapped and take them to an abandoned cabin located in a remote corner of the station and charge them fines.
 
 While the constables would ask for a hefty Rs 1000 or 1200, they would negotiate and settle for whatever the harried commuters agreed to part with. None of the commuters would get a receipt.
 
 Mumbai Mirror reader Kishor Gokhru was similarly pulled off a compartment reserved for handicapped commuters on January 10 around 7.40 pm and taken to the abandoned cabin that did not look anything like a railway police chowkie. He grew suspicious when he asked for a receipt for the fine and the constables let him go. He also noticed a rate card lying on a dusty table in the run-down cabin. The constables did not allow him to click a picture of the document.
 
 Gokhru later called the railway helpline number and was told that both the GRP and the Railway Police Force (RPF) do not maintain a chowkie at Mira Road. He was also told that on the evening of January 10, there were only two GRP constables posted at Mira Road – a male and a woman.
 
 Mumbai Mirror’s story on Tuesday spurred senior railway officers to investigate and they came across January 10’s CCTV footage from Mira Road station when Gokhru and six others were caught. The four   constables visible in the video escorting Gokhru and others away from the train have been identified as -- Police Naik Baba Saheb Thomare, head constable Satish Waghmare, head constable Pandurang Dubal, and Police Naik Arjun Palav.
 
 GRP Deputy Commissioner Deepak Deoraj on Wednesday, however, refused to confirm that the culprits have been identified. He, however, did not deny that the men caught on camera were GRP personnel. “We have got hold of the CCTV footage and we are investigating,” he told Mumbai Mirror.
 
 The CCTV footage shows the GRP men standing at the spot where middle coach for handicapped commuters comes to a halt at Mira Road. They are on several occasions seen going into the compartment and coming out with commuters. They can then be seen leading them towards the abandoned cabin outside Virar end of platform no. 1.
 
 According to GRP sources, none of four GRP men were posted at Mira Road on the day Gokhru was detained by them.
 
 Talking to Mumbai Mirror, Gokhru said the four men, who he had earlier suspected were posing as cops, should be punished so that it teaches a lesson to their GRP colleagues carrying out similar activities. “They should be producing guilty commuters before a court. No wonder, they didn’t have receipt books. The moment I asked for a receipt, they panicked and let me go. But other commuters who were off-loaded with me were made to pay,” he said.
 
 The GRP has already recorded Gorkhu’s statement. GRP Commissioner Niket Kaushik did not respond to calls and messages left on his mobile phone on Wednesday. In the first report Mirror carried, which detailed Gokhru’s experience, Kushik was quoted as saying: “We (GRP) don’t inspect reserved compartments. That is done by RPF.” He had also denied that any cabin was being used by his men at Mira Road.
 
