Mumbai: The   has raised questions about the Maharashtra government’s decision to   from its Flipkart-styled portal set up last year to buy government supplies. 

 On Monday, TOI had reported that the   had adopted the   (GEM) portal for all state departments, except IT. The exclusion had been opposed by the  .
 
 The decision raised eyebrows because IT products form a large chunk of government procurement and are considered the backbone of the GEM portal. Also, central officials say Maharashtra is the only state which is procuring through the portal, but has chosen to exclude IT. Some states are procuring IT hardware from the  , but the software through e-tendering.
 
 Senior sources said the Centre has sought details from state on the price differential for IT products listed on the GEM portal versus those sourced by the Maharashtra IT Corporation.
 
 Maharashtra IT Corporation, set up last year, is tasked with purchasing IT equipment for state departments through e-tendering on quantities that are fixed annually. By contrast, the GEM portal links 11,773 buyers in the government to 32,002 sellers and 1.66 lakh products ranging from pens to cars. Orders can be placed for small volumes and the prices offered keep changing.
 
 When asked about the exclusion, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who holds the IT portfolio, had told TOI that IT products will be included on the GEM portal at a later stage. “They have not been excluded. A policy is being made on how to include them. A decision will soon be taken,” he had said.
 
 In its proposal to the state cabinet, the industries department said purchasing under the GEM portal would fetch prices which were 10-20% lower than the MRP, sources said. Bulk purchasing on the portal could fetch prices 30-40% lower. The department added that procurement through rate contract had turned controversial with multiple complaints being received in recent years. It also said that various government departments were still waiting for IT products ordered last year though they had made advance payments.
 
 However, the state IT department raised objections saying the Maharashtra IT Corporation had been tasked with buying IT hardware and had already received funds worth Rs 73 crore. The IT department also argued that if each office placed orders separately on the GEM portal, the government would not benefit from a bulk order discount.
 
