AHMEDABAD: Better CCTV surveillance during the   (GSHSEB) exams this year seems to have had a deterring effect on copying. Compared to last year's 90%  , this year, the   had claimed that CCTV and tablets were used to watch all exam rooms, without leaving out any.

 As a result of the enhanced surveillance, copying cases in Amreli district dropped from 643 last year to just 101 this year.
 
 Copying cases registered in class XII exams dropped from 1,468 cases last year to 899 this year ­ an almost 39% drop. However, copying in class X exams went up from 1,007 last year to 1,157 cases this year.
 
 Meanwhile, the board began proceedings on copy cases involving students of class XII on Thursday. Around 100 students were called. Results of a centre in Anand district has been kept pending as officials found problem with the CDs.
 
 Most students called by the board admitted that they were in possession of material, but denied having copied from it. An external student in Kheda was allegedly found with a chit by the supervisor, who snatched and threw it out the classroom. This was recorded on CCTV and landed her in soup.
 
 The board also sought explanation from   on why no copy case was registered against a girl, who was caught copying while sitting behind three boys, who have been reported.
 
 Controller of exams, Bharat Panchal said that the hearings on this year's copy cases for class X will begin in June once the results are out.Board's joint secretary , BN Rajgor said that the board would hold hearing in nearly 100 cases on a daily basis. Parents would be shown the video footage in case of disputes.
 
 The most copying cases came from Gir-Som nath district in class XII where there was video footage of 174 cases. The DEO of the district said copying is rampant in interior areas of Gir.
 
 “There were efforts to disconnect power supply in order to avoid recording by CCTV and tablets. But with whatever footage was available, 174 copying cases have been reported to the board,“ he said.
 
 In class X exams, siddhartha Morbi district recorded highest copying with 308 cases, followed by Patan district with 94 cases.Morbi's DEO, B N Dave, said, “In a centre at Maliya village, we noticed an incident of mass copying. When a vigilance squad went to the centre, copying stopped, but resumed as soon as the squad members left the centre.“
 
 Board officials said that those caught copying on video were given punishment. They were not allowed to pass in the paper in which they were found copying. Some were made ineligible to take exams for a couple of terms, and those who used dummy candidates were debarred from taking exams for three years.
 
 
 
 
 A 35-year-old external student taking Class XII exam at a centre near Rajkot city was debarred from taking exam for one year.This was after a woman supervisor complained before the board that the student ogled at her for three hours instead of writing his test. This was verified during scrutiny of the video footage. He was also found to be in possession of a chit. He was held guilty of copying. There is no provision of taking any action against students for gestures other than copying.
 
 Jamkandorna case
 
 In 2014, there was a case of mass copying reported about class XII general stream students in Jamkandorna town in Saurashtra region. This irregularity was discovered by examiners while assessing answersheets. The board arranged for a re-test in the particular subject and 70% of students, who appeared in exams again, cleared the exam. The board bypassed all norms to be followed in case of copying. When asked, concerned minister told TOI that it is an old incident and hence irrelevant now.
 
