GURUGRAM: All   in   will now have to attend to   at  

 To tide over the severe manpower crunch in the state’s healthcare system, the health department has ordered that all government doctors, including the ones holding administrative posts, as well as the director general of health services (DGHS) will have to perform clinical duties.
 
 Against 3,250 posts of doctors, Haryana has barely 1,700 general physicians and specialists taking care of a population of 2.25 crore. Out of these, around 200 doctors across the state are holding administrative posts such as chief medical officers, principal medical officers, senior medical officers, nodal officers etc.
 
 In Gurgaon too, 18 out of 115 government doctors are holding administrative posts, leaving barely 97 doctors to attend to 6,000 patients daily at the three General hospitals in Civil Lines, Sector 10 and Sohna, and 33 primary health centres.
 
 “Health department, Haryana, is facing acute shortage of doctors. Large number of doctors are working on administrative posts and they are not performing any clinical duties. Therefore, in order to improve health services for the public visiting government-run health institutions, the government of Haryana is pleased to order that all doctors belonging to Haryana Civil Medical Services and the doctors belonging to Haryana Dental Services will perform clinical duties,” says the order.
 
 According to the new rules, DGHS will have to do clinical duties at least once a month, while the additional director general and all directors twice a month. 
 
 Similarly, all civil surgeons and equivalent-rank doctors will have to devote one day in a week, while principal medical officers, medical superintendents, deputy civil surgeons, senior medical officers, deputy directors and all medical officers and dental doctors posted in the offices of DGHS, National Health Mission, AIDS Control Society etc will have to serve two days in a week at state-run hospitals.
 
 “The order has been implemented with immediate effect, and DGHS is devising a mechanism for keeping a record of the clinical duties performed by all doctors, and no exemption will be granted to any of the doctors,” said Dr MP Singh, vice-president of Haryana Civil Medical Services’ Association.
 
 
