AJMER: Theto palak pugado deenanath sewa mein tumhre dasi kad ke khadi (Oh lord! Your servant is standing at your door. Open your eyes and bestow). The repeated rendition of   spark a deep wave of mysticism among devotees who start whirling on their feet. It is a common sight at 80-feet-high Mehfil Khana in the 12th century   in  . 

 The mausoleum probably is the only place where we hear the mesmerizing couplets/poetries in centuries-old Indic languages— Hindavi, Braj, Gujarati, Marwari, Hindi, Sanskrit, Punjabi, Rekhta, Sindhi along with Urdu, Persian and Arabic. Echoes of qawwalis and recitation give a delightful experience to linguistic connoisseurs during the ongoing annual Urs. The qawwali sessions by qawwals (traditional singers) malangs (mystics) and devotees set off a night-long melodic journey after the sun sets behind the Aravalli hills. 
 
 The Mehfil Khana also known as Mehfil-E-Sama turns a platform for six-day spiritual singing. Shahi qawwal, Qurban Hussain, accompanied by two tabla virtuoso, one harmonium and six back singers sitting cross-legged at Mehfil Khana start the day with a 13th century Hindavi poetry: khelo re chisthio khelo re holi, aaj rang hai aai ma rang hai re. (Chisthis play Holi today to celebrate your beloved), written by Hazrat Amir Khusro. 
 
 This 45-minute power-packed session in Marwari is followed by a rendition in Hindi and Sanskrit languages. Har jat aur sifat se ho nirmal, simar simar simran bane, narain hare narain hare (You are above caste and race. Oh lord! I swear allegiance to you.). 
 
 The couplets, ‘Alak niranjan tore jaisa, koi nahi maharaja, mola ali ke sadke mein khol jara darwaja , kripa karo maharaj (Oh Lord ! nobody is like you, open the doors of love for the sake of Ali) in Apabhramsa language, which was popular among Jain literature, leave the devotees in trance.
 
 “The toughest part of our job is to maintain the phonetics, semantics, grammar and syntax of each language along with voice modulation, which is different from each other,” said Hussain, while chewing on betel leaves which keep his throat infection-free. Qawwals from across the country paid a visit during Urs. 
 
 Lord Krishna’s Braj language in its original vocabulary, articulation, dialect and utterance could also be heard at the closing ceremony of shrine. ‘Hai tu sahi moin-ul-haq banda sawara, chishty chiraj jag mein ujiara...peero ke suni   aao aja. Roora mithu ka dard door kijiyo khajwaja’ (O Ye Moinuddin truly lord protector who graces fortunes. Whose prayers are accepted at Mecca. You are pillar of peace. Mercy on Roora Mithu, relieve him from all pain of life and heart).
 
 The shrine displays multilingual harmony through qawwalis, underscoring religious harmony that it is propagating since 12th century. Sardar Aatif Hussain Kazmi, a research scholar on Sufism at Jamia Milia Islamia University and a khadim at  , said, “The linguistic diversity starting from 13th century till today symbolizes the openness that this shrine epitomizes. The value system it disseminates is universal and stems from the core of Islam.”
 
 
