GURGAON: Concerned over rising pollution due to construction activities, the department of town and country planning (DTCP) has directed all field officers across Haryana districts to issue notices to colonies and private developers if they don’t following guidelines issued by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) for dust pollution. 

 A centralised monitoring committee (CMC) was formed to monitor implementation of NGT’s direction for checking pollution, in compliance of its order on Vardhaman Kaushik versus Union of India and others issued on April 6, 2016. DTCP issued its directions accordingly, as the Haryana government has to submit details of action taken to the tribunal.
 
 So far, NGT’s direction has remained on paper. No serious efforts have been made to implement the NGT order. “Senior town planners (STPs) in field offices were directed to issue notices to all colonies and private developers, where building plans have been approved and construction work is in progress, to comply to NGT directions,” said Ravi Sihag, chief town planner (HQ), DTCP, in his letter issued recently to all field officers.
 
 For compliance, district town planners (DTPs) in the field have been requested to monitor construction sites for which plans have been sanctioned at their respective levels, and submit reports to their STPs every month. The STPs will prepare consolidated reports and send it to the directorate.
 
 A senior DTCP official in Gurgaon said a meeting was held for implementation of the direction, and concerned officials have been directed to visit sites. “Officers have been directed to visit construction sites in compliance of the NGT order,” said the official. He, however, clarified that till now, no challan has been issued.
 
 According to   (HPCB), respirable suspended particulate matter (RSPM) in Gurgaon has increased significantly over the past few years. HPCB attributed it to construction activities on Golf Course Road, and in new sectors along   (SPR) and   (NPR). “A large part of Gurgaon remained covered in a layer of dust,” said the official.
 
 The prime reason for the problem is negligence of guidelines issued by Ministry of Environment and Forest (MoEF) and National Green Tribunal (NGT). As per construction norms, sites should be covered with tarpaulin sheet to prevent spread of dust. However, on ground; these norms are nowhere seen being implemented. According to the July 2016 order, a person/builder will be liable to pay compensation up to Rs 5 lakh per violation, in relation to construction activity, and Rs 5,000 for transportation of construction material or debris without cover.
 
