PUNE: The   on Sunday arrested a 40-year-old primary teacher for allegedly stabbing his   at her flat in Azadnagar in the early hours of Sunday.

 After stabbing Sneha (35) to death, Sunil  , currently residing at Loni Kalbhor, kept a kitchen knife in Sneha’s hand to portray she had ended her own life. He fled the spot afterwards.
 
 “Kadam’s 12-year-old son is an eyewitness to the incident. To save his mother, the boy had hit his father with an iron object,” said Machhindra Pandit, inspector of the Wanowrie police station.
 
 Kadam was arrested on Sunday evening before he could escape from the city. “He was produced before the court on Monday and has been remanded to police custody till March 24,” Pandit said. Sneha’s father Babasaheb Chavan, who is a retired assistant police inspector, lodged the complaint against Kadam.
 
 Pandit said that Kadam teaches at a primary school and his wife too was a primary teacher at a civic-run school. They got married in 2000 and have a 12-year-old son and a five-year-old daughter. “In the last couple of years both husband and wife grew apart, suspecting each other’s involvement in extra-marital relationships. Following which the suspect started harassing Sneha,” Pandit said.
 
 In 2015, Sneha had filed a complaint against Kadam with the Wanowrie police station. Kadam was arrested and later released on bail. “For the past one year, Sneha was living separately with her two children in Azadangar. Kadam used to visit the flat to meet his children,” Pandit said.
 
 On Saturday night Kadam, Shena and the children hung out together till 8pm. Later, around 1am, Kadam again came to Sneha’s flat while she was asleep and so were the children. “In sometime, his son was waken up by a heated argument between the couple,” Pandit said.
 
 Pandit said that Sneha was annoyed because Kadam was in a drunken state. She told him to leave the flat. while Kadam resisted,” Pandit said.
 
 In a sudden fit of anger, Kadam drew a sharp weapon and stabbed it into his wife’s chest. On seeing the brutal attack, his son immediately started alerting the neighbours. “In the meanwhile, Kadam brought a knife from the kitchen and placed it in Sneha’s hand and fled,” Pandit said.
 
 On Seeing Sneha in a badly injured condition, her neighbour alerted the police and rushed her to a hospital, where doctors declared her dead on arrival, Pandit said. “Kadam was arrested later in the evening,” Pandit said.
 
 
