THANE: The   retained the post of   and deputy mayor unopposed in the Thane municipal corporation (TMC) on Monday after nominees from rival camps withdrew from the race ahead of the elections. Sena candidate  , third time corporator from Ghodbunder Road, was elected as the 21st mayor of Thane, while party colleague and two time corporator from Diva, Ramakant Madvi, was appointed as deputy mayor. Sena president Uddhav Thackeray was present for the occasion.

 The elections were conducted on Monday morning at the first floor assembly hall at the TMC headquarters in an open voting manner. Outgoing mayor Sanjay More and his deputy Rajendra Sapte handed over the reins to Shinde and Madhvi at a glittering ceremony held in the presence of senior Sena leader and guardian minister Eknath Shinde. A huge victory rally was taken out by the Sena across the lake city till late evening. 
 
 Uddhav, accompanied by his wife Rashmi and son Aditya, congratulated the new mayor and deputy mayor after the coronation ceremony. “I am thankful to the residents of Thane who have supported the Sena and ensured our single-handed victory. The city shares a unique bond with the Sena since decades. We also thank the Opposition for realizing the mandate of the citizens and gracefully backing out before the elections,” Uddhav said. 
 
 The Sena that had managed to secure a majority of 67 corporators in the 131-member strong house reportedly got indirect support from six elected representatives who remained absent from the polling process.
 
 Three corporators from the BJP—Kewladevi Yadav, Vilas Kamble and Varsha Kamble—in addition to the two from AIMIM, Azmi Shahalam Shahid and Shaikh Hazra and Independent candidate Vishwanath Bhagat remained absent from the process. 
 
 The BJP that saw a neat jump in its seat tally from just eight to 23 this time had nominated Ashadevi Singh and Mukesh Mokashi for the posts of mayor and deputy respectively, while the Congress had nominated Vikrant Chavan for the post of deputy mayor. The NCP had fielded Ashreen Raut and Arati Gaikwad for the mayor and deputy posts, respectively. However, the nominees later withdrew their names.
 
 
