PATNA: The   (BSEB) has asked the   and heads of the examination centres to ensure foolproof preparations and take special measures for   for the upcoming Bihar Teacher Eligibility Test (BTET) examinations scheduled to be held on July 23. 

  said the differently-abled candidates would get half an hour extra than other candidates. “CCTV cameras will be installed at all the centres to ensure strict vigil. Even the board officials, who will inspect the exam centres, have to sign the register, so that we can know who goes in and out,” Kishor said.
 
 Over 2.43 lakh candidates will write the   exam for primary schools at various exam centres. The exams would be held in two shifts - from 10am to 12.30pm for lower primary teachers (class I to V) and from 2pm to 4.30pm for upper primary teachers (class VI to VIII). The admit card will be available on the board’s website www.bsebonline.net from July 16.
 
 “There are 50,950 examinees for paper I and over 1.92 lakh for paper II. Candidates who provided their own cellphone number and email while submitting the application form will receive the message,” Kishor said.
 
 Apart from candidates from Bihar, around 30 candidates from other states, including four from Jammu and Kashmir, 14 from Andhra Pradesh, 11 from Assam, two from Arunachal Pradesh and one from Andaman and Nicobar, would write the papers.
 
 Talking about precautionary measures taken by the board, Kishor said, “Candidates will be allowed to enter the examination hall with valid admit cards with identity proof, i.e. voter ID card or Aadhaar card. Thumb impression of candidates in biometric system will be taken before their entry into the examination hall.”
 
 He added: “The answer sheets will be bar coded like matriculation and intermediate exams. OMR sheets will be introduced in BTET exam and attendance of the examinees would also be marked through OMR sheet. The invigilators must ensure that the examinees fill the OMR sheet correctly.”
 
 BTET was previously conducted in December 2011 and January 2012 in which 26.79 lakh candidates appeared and 1.47 lakh had cleared the exams.
 
