NOIDA: Senior bureaucrat  , who has been posted as CEO of Noida and  , took over the reins of the twin authorities on Thursday.

 He met officials of the two authorities and said his focus would be on reviving industrial development in the two areas and to bring in investment and generate employment. Prasad also promised to tackle the problems faced by the public and ensure a transparent working environment.
 
 With a master’s in Economics, the 1989 IAS officer who currently holds additional charge of investment commissioner of Uttar Pradesh in New Delhi, is also a specialist in governance and development having received his training from London. Prasad has trained in leading Tata institutes in the country including   (TISS), Mumbai, gathering expertise in social policy and governance along with strategic leadership in policy matters.
 
 Even though Prasad said it was too soon for him to list his priorities, he said his focus was on understanding the issues plaguing the two cities in GB Nagar. “On Thursday he met all the officials and took stock of the situation. He said he needs to first know the problems and issues specific to Noida and Greater Noida and then study them in detail before he works out his priority schedule,” said Saumya Srivastava, deputy CEO (DCEO),  .
 
 However, he said, since all infrastructure development was incidental to industrial development, his aim would be to provide entrepreneurs with a conducive environment for setting up industry and for ease of doing business.
 
 Srivastava said the CEO promised to address problems of residents, entrepreneurs, homebuyers and farmers. “Civic maintenance, solid waste management, parking, encroachment and traffic management will also be on Prasad’s agenda for overhauling in the two cities,” he said.
 
 “He conducted an inspection of the Authority premises in Noida and found the property department to be teeming with people even though online facilities have been launched. He has asked officials to expedite the release of documents related to completion, transfer, extensions, mortgage, etc so that people do not have to come to the Authority office,” Srivastava said.
 
 
