KOLHAPUR: The   is yet to repair the 35 roads that were constructed at an expense of 7 crore and were damaged during last year’s  .

 The   (KMC) spent Rs 33 crore to construct 66 roads in 2013 and 2016 through the Nagarotthan Scheme. The KMC appointed Walchand Engineering College, Sangli to conduct a technical audit of roads damaged and to zero in on the amount of damage.
 
 According to the agreement, the contractor is responsible for   if it gets damaged within three years of construction. The KMC got 18 roads repaired by contractors. However, 17 road stretches are yet to undergo repairs. This year, the number of damaged roads may increase as the city was hit by heavy rain last week.
 
 A senior KMC official said, “The patchwork of potholes along 17 roads has been done. We have decided to undertake the complete repair work after monsoon ends. We have experienced that the roads are further damaged when repair work is undertaken during the rain.”
 
 Amal Mahadik, MLA from Kolhapur South constituency raised the issue in the ongoing state assembly session a few days ago. Mahadik had claimed that the road quality was poor and therefore, the cost of damage is higher.
 
 The MLA also alleged that the civic body had deliberately refused to disclose the report submitted by the Sangli-based college. Now, after the corporators raised voices against the report, the KMC decided to appoint the Karad-based Government Engineering Collection for the technical audit. The officials claim that they are awaiting this audit report.
 
 “Recently, a Karad-based college was hired for the work. Surveys have been carried out and the drafting of the report is currently on. We will get the report soon and we will identify roads which got damaged during the defect liability period and then ask the contractor to get them repaired. For the rest of the roads, the KMC will have funds from its own budget for the repair work,” the official said.
 
 In the meantime, many road stretches from areas such as Shivaji Peth, Timber Market, Race Course Road, Rajarampuri, Mangalwar Peth and Lakshimipuri were damaged in the recent heavy monsoon. The civic body has directed ward officials to conduct surveys and report the number, name and period of construction of the damaged roads. 
 
 
