CHANDIGARH: The   observed on Thursday that the statements of some witnesses and the   indicate that rapes had taken place at   in February 2016. The court asked the state police special investigation team to find the culprits to instill confidence in the public.

 A division bench made these observations in open court. The judges also observed that witnesses  , a taxi driver, had said that women were dragged out of their vehicles, which indicated that rapes had taken place.
 
 The HC has stayed the framing of charges in the rape case being heard in a trial court in Sonipat. Haryana Police filed an FIR after the HC took suo motu cognisance of newspaper reports. Police had accused five alleged rioters of rape, but the charge was dropped as their blood did not match semen samples from the undergarments.
 
 The HC also asked the SIT to file an affidavit before the trial court that rape charges haven't been dropped and are still under investigation.
 
 The observations came after senior advocate and amicus curiae in the case, Anupam Gupta, accused the SIT of working in lack of good faith and in an unprofessional manner.
 
 He alleged had the Sonipat trial judge not informed the high court about rape charges being dropped against the five accused, the SIT would have closed the case much earlier.
 
 Gupta also opposed the SIT's efforts to record the statement of one of the wit Gupta also opposed SIT's efforts to record the statement of one of the witnesses, Raj Kumar, before the trial court under section 164 CrPc. He said that the SIT was acting as defence in the case and making deliberate attempts to drop rape charges in the case. He asked the court to hand over the case to CBI.
 
 On this, bench asked the CBI counsel to inform if the agency is ready to probe the case, the CBI counsel said though the agency is overburdened with the work, it would follow the directions of the court.
 
 The counsel for the state government, however, informed the court that the SIT was still probing the case trying to find both victims and the accused. The case will now come up for hearing on February 28.
 
