AURANGABAD: The city police have registered as many as three suicide cases including one of a 16-year-old girl in different parts of the city on Thursday. 

 The girl - identified as Chhaya Dilip Jadhav - stayed with her elder sister and brother-in-law in   area. She committed suicide around 7 am by hanging herself to the roof.
 
 Around 8 am, Chhaya's sister found her hanging from the roof and rushed her to the Government Medical College and Hospital ( ) where doctors declared her dead on arrival.
 
 "The victim, who has four siblings - three sisters and a brother, was staying with her married sister. She has left a suicide note too, but it is not readable and we are trying to find its content," said a police officer.
 
 "Chhaya studied up to Class 8 and had lost her mother when she was very young. She was staying with her sister, while the other siblings stayed with their father at Ambad in Jalna district," he added.
 
 In another case, 27-year-old Kedar Sheshrao   - student of city-based MSW College - was found hanging to the roof around 6 am on Thursday.
 
 He was currently staying in   in a rented apartment with three of his friends, said an officer from Kranti Chowk police.
 
 "His friends slept on the terrace of the house while he preferred to stay in the room. However, when they stepped down, they found Gaikwad hanging from the roof with the help of a scarf. They immediately rushed him to the GMCH where he was declared brought dead. According to his friends, he was upset for the last 15 days and was to appear for his annual exam on Thursday. Since we didn't find a suicide note, exact cause of his suicide would be known after we question a few people," he added.
 
 In the third case, registered at Jawahar Colony police station, 23-year-old Sujoy Sudhakar Khewale - an engineering student studying at   - was found hanging from the roof by his mother on Wednesday evening.
 
 "His mother had gone out of the city and returned on Wednesday evening to find him hanging from the roof. Khewale's father was a government official and had died about two years ago while Sujoy stayed with his mother. We have registered a case of accidental death and the exact cause of Sujoy's suicide is not known," an officer said.
 
