MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Friday directed that no excavation work for   should take place in front of the 119-year old Grade-II heritage J N   building in Fort for two weeks till a fresh and independent structural survey is completed. The court appointed a three-member committee of structural engineers. 

 The committee members would include an expert from IIT-B and one each suggested by   Institute trustees and Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation Limited which is constructing the underground Metro-III line from Colaba to Bandra to Seepz. 
 
 A bench of Chief Justice Manjula Chellur and Justice Nitn Jamdar who on Thursday had made clear that they did not want heritage buildings to be affected by the Metro work, said the independent survey of the building, which houses a library and its garden ground, is to be completed in two weeks. Two trustees of the Petit Institute had moved court after an ornamental limestone finial fell off on August 25 after “drilling work caused vibrations four times in excess of the permissible 5mm per second”. 
 
 The trustees had sought a stay on the Metro line 3 construction for Flora Fountain section till a comprehensive independent survey by structural engineers is done for the Heritage Mile building. On Friday counsel for the trustees, Ferzana Behram Kamdin said that the staff at the Library was still concerned as the vibrations could still be felt though there was no work going on immediately outside the building. The finial had fallen in the garden area of the building, which in 2015 had been conferred the award of distinction from   for Cultural Heritage Conservation after it was restored. Constructed with a shallow, 3 meter foundation, the neo-Gothic revival styled building has a circular staircase and bouquets, finials and tower turrets. It houses over a lakh of books including 2,400 rare books and 12 manuscripts some dating back to the 17th century. It even houses the Jam-e-Jamshed from 1936 and Times of India from 1933 onwards.
 
 In February 2014 during the initial meetings, the Mumbai Heritage Conservation Committee had even asked MMRDA to consider an alternate arrangement to D N Road for the Metro as the close construction would be harmful for a ‘large number of heritage buildings in the vicinity’.
 
 But in December 2014, the civic chief said he was satisfied that “there is no viable alternative to DN Road’’ and permitted the underground Metro III alignment to pass through the road, but asked MHCC to “take all measures” to ensure no structural damage to heritage buildings along DN Road. “It is an infrastructure project of extremely vital importance to Mumbai,’’ the BMC chief had said.
 
 
