TRICHY:   need not go to waste any more. All you have to do is call ‘No Waste Food’ at 90877 90877 and their staff will come collect it and distribute it to the needy.

 Started by a group of youths in Coimbatore about a couple of years ago, the firm takes excess food to the needy in 8 cities across the country, including Chennai and Delhi.
 
 The Trichy chapter of   was launched on Sunday. The staff will pick up excess food from hotels, marriage halls and educational institutions and distribute it to the needy at 22 places in the city. 
 
 “We have identified 22 hunger zones in the city which are mostly slum areas where people struggle to get even one meal a day,” said A G Padmanaban, founder of the organisation. When so many people are starving, it is disturbing to know that many hotels and marriage halls are just throwing away excess food, he added. “The aim is to bridge the gap between the haves and the have-nots,” he said.
 
 It’s not that people are not willing to help, clarifies another member of ‘No Waste Food’ Dinesh M. But due to the lack of proper channels, the needy remain hungry while others throw food down the drain.
 
 While the city corporation has extended its support by providing them space on Butterworth Road, Rotary Club of   has donated a vehicle to be used for the recovery of untouched excess food and utensils for the purpose.
 
 However, it is going to be challenging to run the show in the upcoming days as more people come to know about the initiative. It would require more volunteers to distribute large amounts of food with the marriage season just round the corner.
 
 “Instead of making this initiative an NGO, we find it more suitable to have stake holders who are members of civil society who will take it forward,” said Padmanaban. While the city corporation has provided space, many youngsters from the city have volunteered their time. Corporates and other organizations can fund it as part of their   initiative, he added.
 
 Organizations based in Trichy like Trichy Trekkers, Shine TREEchy and social media forum I love Trichy have come forward to extend their support to the cause. 
 
 The Association of Hoteliers, marriage halls and educational institutions will be sensitized on this initiative in the coming days.
 
