JAIPUR: Is stress returning to haunt students with the compulsory Class X   examination from 2017-18 session?

 Most schools believe that board examination will make Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation ( ) insignificant as the main focus will be shifted to the unit test and the main examinations. Since many schools are beginning the new session from April 1, they have dropped the CCE—Formative Assessment and Summative Assessment. Both the assessments made the evaluation of a child based on different activities. It was introduced in 2009 to de-stress students from the examination pressure.
 
 Principal of   Lata Rawat said, “The weightage of final examination is 80% and 20% of marks are with schools in the new system. It means that students will work hard for the final examination. They may not participate in the school activities required for the CCE likely to make this system unpopular.”
 
 The principal, however, disagrees that the move would led to stress. “Every school has experience in holding this examination and they will ensure that stress would not affect students.” 
 
 Holding a contrary view, principal of   in Jodhpur Tabassum Khan says, “Students have to memorise the whole syllabus in order to reproduce it at the end of the session for scoring high marks. In the CCE system, students had to remember 50% in each summative examination allowing them to enhance their creative side also.”
 
 Currently, there are four Formative Assessments (FA) and two Summative Assessments (SA) for Class X. Here, teacher’s evaluation covers 70% marks.
 
 Now, it is clear that students have to focus final board examination in Class X will lead to stress-like situation. 
 
 Experts say that it will increase the tuition culture among students. “I will study for throughout the year as I cannot take the risk of forgetting any part of the syllabus during my final examination. I don’t know how good or bad it is but I have to study for the whole year,” said  , a student who is entering in Class X.
 
 Since the board examinations became optional, majority of students started opting for school-based examination leading to pass percentage of close to 100% result.
 
