PUNE: The traffic police on Wednesday suspended   on Pashan and Baner roads around   junction, just six hours after it was implemented. 

 Officials said it was suspended to ease traffic in the area for the ongoing SSC, HSC and CBSE examinations. They have not yet announced when it would be reinstated.
 
 The traffic police announced the suspension on its Twitter handle around noon even as department personnel manned entry points around the junction to clear the massive traffic chaos that had started to build up since early morning.
 
 The new traffic arrangement was notified a few days ago to facilitate long-pending water pipeline works in front of the CID office on  .
 
 Explaining the reasons for withdrawing the plan, Kishore Mhaswade, police inspector (planning) of the traffic department, said, “We have taken cognizance of ongoing exams. We don’t want to cause inconvenience to anyone and are postponing the one-way traffic enforcement. We will reintroduce it at a more appropriate time.”
 
 Residents of the area had been opposing the change since it was announced as they feared it would lead to traffic snarls and confusion. 
 
 Four schools and colleges are located near the junction, and residents said reworking the traffic arrangement could hamper movement of students appearing for exams. Some parents had also approached area MLA Vijay Kale on Tuesday to seek his intervention.
 
 Santosh Jagdale of Baner said, “My daughter’s final exams started from Wednesday. I usually take   to go towards the city. To avoid the chaos that was bound to occur at University junction, I went to drop her to the exam centre via Khadki. Even on ordinary days, it takes at least 15 minutes to cross that signal. The authorities should postpone the roadwork to April or May to avoid inconvenience to students.”
 
 Another affected citizen, Ganesh Kalapure of Aundh, said, “Parents were worried their kids might reach exam centres late due to the one-way traffic rule.”
 
 Local political party workers also staged a protest at the junction around 11.30am and forcefully removed the barricades placed by the police to enforce the one-way traffic, thus allowing many harassed commuters to use the roads normally.
 
