We first saw   live in 2016. It was a cold December evening in Sohra, a sleepy town in the Eastern Khasi Hills, Meghalaya, and wintry winds were cutting through our skin when they came on stage. Just two songs into their set and the coarse weather became irrelevant to us; such was the virtue of their music — vigorous, passionate and replete with warmth,” we overheard an audiophile say minutes before the gig on Saturday.

 And the band brought the same energy from the hills of  , and performed a groovy set for the first time in Hyderabad. “This is our first gig as a band in the city. Previously, many of us in the band have come here as session musicians supporting other acts, but as 4th Element, this is our first,” says  , the keyboard player and frontman of the band.
 
 “I remember performing at one of the sports bars here. If my memory serves me right, it was sometime in 2009-10… It’s been a while. I hope the audience hasn’t change their musical tastes by now,” he quips. 
 
 After they came together in 2007, 4th Element has evolved like fine wine, getting better with age. Over the last decade the ensemble has strived to stick to their musical preferences, and has matured into an eclectic brand of music unique to their own. “The name of the band has nothing to do with classical elements — earth, water, fire…etc. Instead it is derived from the four genres of Western music which everyone in the band truly believes in and has been pursuing since the time we learnt how to – funk, jazz, R&B and soul,” informs Ribor, who runs his own recording studio in Shillong and previously has been a part of bands such as   and SRF.
 
 Over the years, the band has undergone, though not many, but notable lineup changes. And the latest to join the list of ex-bandmates is vocalist Sara Lee, who left the band recently after being a part of it since its initial years. “Sara had to quit the band because of some personal and irreconcilable issues with the members. We don’t want to talk about it but I am assuring fans that she will be back soon, real soon,” says Ribor when asked about her. 
 
 Of late, 4th Element has been featuring a lot of artistes in their gigs and their set on Saturday was no different. “We have been performing with a young vocalist named Amabel for the last 4 to 5 gigs. She is an amazing artiste who has just finished her graduation in Music Studies. So, yes, it will fun on the stage,” says Ribor.
 
 The band’s Saturday’s gig was a special one, not just for the city’s audiophiles but also for the band. Firstly because, this is the band’s tenth anniversary and secondly, they will be sharing stage with another profound band from their state, which many tout as India’s best blues export to the world –  . 
 
 “I didn’t play rock, blues or jazz when I was a kid. It was   (Wallang), guitar player of Soulmate, who once saw me playing and invited me to jam with his then band, Mojo. I guess it was sometime in 1997. Later, I played as a session musician with legendary Lou Majaw’s band, in fact I still do when ever he needs my services. So, we all — I, Rudy, Sam (Shullai), drummer of the band— are all part of the same musical fraternity from Shillong,” he says adding that he has also played as a session keyboard player for Soulmate during the early 2000s. “Rudy is like a friend, mentor and brother to me and so is Sam. I think I have been performing with Sam for the last 20 years,” he informs. 
 
 While their songs such as Break My Solitude and Wonder Why I am Dancing are already huge hits among fans, the band with their subtle pop/jazz sound got the crowd to groove to their newer songs. “It was such a wonderful experience to play to an audience who knows their music,” says Ribor before signing off. 
 
