BENGALURU: At a recent book launch, when writer-critic N S Sridhara Murthy asked why there has been no celebration to mark the birth centenary of Kannada novelist  , many didn’t know what to say. While some were clueless about the date (January 5), others felt the government should have done the needful.

 But the query left the members of Ee Hottige, a literary group, ecstatic. “We will line up 3-4 sessions in early May. Besides discussions on the writer’s works, the event will include interactions with woman writers who have seen Indira up, close and personal,” said Jayalaxmi Patil, who moderates the group’s activities. 
 
 Ee Hottige will also invite readers to write essays on their favourite characters created by Indira. “We are planning to reward the best ones,” added Jayalaxmi, elaborating their plans.
 
 Kannada Sahitya Parishat president   said they will support the organizations which celebrate the centenary in a meaningful way. “Indira is a big name the occasion calls for celebrations,” said Baligar, writer and former bureaucrat. 
 
 KSP has been associated with Karnataka Lekhakiyara Sangha (KLS) in observing such occasions. KLS president Vasundhara Bhupati said they have approached the Kannada and culture department. “We are awaiting their reply,” she said, adding that KLS recently held a symposium on Indira’s works.
 
 The government celebrated the birth centenary of poet K S   last year and poet Gopalakrishna Adiga this year. Ee Hottige, too, has marked the centenaries of Jnanpith awardee Masti Venkatesha Iyengar and Adiga. “It would be good if the government lines up events in memory of women writers like Indira,” said Jayalaxmi.
 
 Usha P Rai, novelist and a friend of Indira’s, said: “She is a great writer and deserves a befitting fete. The government should consider women writers too for centenary celebrations.”
 
 100 titles to her credit
 
 Born into an agricultural family in Theerthahalli taluk of Shivamogga district on January 5, 1917, Indira studied Kannada poetry and was fond of Hindi literature. A chance meeting with novelist Triveni inspired Indira to write short stories. She started penning novels when she was 45. Indira, who died at the age of 77, has 100 books — novels, travelogues, essays etc — to her credit.
 
 Her first published novel was Tungabhadra (1963), which was followed by Sadananda, Gejje Pooje and Navaratna. Gejje Pooje was made into a film by director  . Her most well-known work is Phaniyamma, a novel based on the life of a child widow whom Indira knew during her childhood. It was made into a film by the same name, which was directed by Prema Karanth. 
 
 Will rope in Academy
 
 We are planning to celebrate M K Indira’s birth centenary in association with the Sahitya Akademy. We will involve interested organizations and work out the modalities
 
  A, director, Kannada and culture department
 
 
