NEW DELHI: The   which is already battling a foreign invader from   — a highly invasive tree species called vilayati kikar (Prosopis juliflora) — may now be up against another tree from the same country. According to  , environmentalist and author of Trees of Delhi, the green lung of the capital has seen an immense growth of   (Leucaena leucocephala), which if unchecked could lead to disaster or the Ridge.

 Krishen explained that the tree grows in tough conditions and propagates readily. In the past three years, it has flourished alongside the vilayati kikar and the two invasive species threaten to take over large portions of the Ridge and drastically reduce the space for other species to survive and grow.
 
 “While the species reached   in the 1970s, the spurt in its numbers came in the past few years. Its propensity to spread easily and quickly can prove a disaster for the Ridge and it has to be checked,” cautioned Krishen, who uproots all subabul saplings he comes across during his morning walks with his dogs.
 
 The tree expert pointed out that a similar problem had occurred at the  , where subabul was planted for its fast growth, but had soon colonised a large area. “They grow quickly, and fully grown you cannot chop them down without the permission of the forest department,” Krishen added.
 
 The species was chosen for its farm-forestry utility in 1970 for its quick growth and usefulness as cattle feed. In time, experts across the country soon discovered its invasive nature. The leaves could also prove toxic if consumed in large quantities by cattle, experts said.
 
 Faiyaz A Khudsar, scientist in-charge at the  , however, feels while the subabul may be thriving and increasing at a fast pace, it isn’t too late to control its spread. “Subabul’s properties are different from vilayati kikar’s in the sense that it does not degrade the environment like the latter does,” argued Khudsar. “Yes, it grows very quickly and has shown a spike in numbers, but a systematic action plan can be made to tackle its unchecked spread.” 
 
 The forest department will focus on reviving the   this year after the Delhi government’s budget earmarked Rs 50 lakh for the cost of ridding the green expanses of vilayati kikar. Forest officials say a patch will initially be chosen for the replacement of kikar with native species. Indian trees considered to have the highest rate of survival will be chosen.
 
 
