KANNUR: CPM state secretary Kodiyeri   said the CPM is ready to support a common candidate against the BJP for the presidential election. However, there is no question of an alliance with the Congress, which is a 'daydream' of senior Congress leader A K Antony, he said.

 “The CPM is strongly fighting the RSS but it will not join hands with the Congress,“ he said interacting with the media after the inauguration of the seminar, 'Mainstream politics and Muslim minorities' organized by the minority culture council, an organization under the CPM, here on Thursday.
 
 Citing Antony's remarks that the CPM in Kerala was the roadblock for the national-level alliance, the CPM leader said the party congress held in Visakhapatnam had taken the decision not to join hands with the Congress. This is not the decision of any one state unit of the party, as mentioned by Antony, said Balakrishnan.
 
 “We had supported the Congress in 2004 to keep away the BJP from power, but instead of implementing the common minimum programme, the Congress executed its own programmes, which led to issues like inflation, unemployment and farmer suicides, which ultimately lead the BJP to come to power,“ said the CPM state secretary, who added that the Congress does not have the strength to fight the BJP at the nationallevel and an alliance with them will be counterproductive.
 
 He also said the opposition in Kerala is weak and they do not have any aim.Their only agenda is antiCPM propaganda, he added. Referring to the apparent move on the part of the West Bengal unit of the CPM to accept the support of the Congress to field party general secretary Sitaram Yechury in the   election, he said Yechury never decided to take the support of Congress.
 
 Earlier, inaugurating the seminar, he said the CPM supports Muslim women in the triple talaq issue, whereas parties like the BJP give it a communal angle. He also said this should not be made a political issue and the Muslim community should reach a consensus in this regard.
 
 He also alleged that the imposition of UAPA and AFSPA has shown an increase after Narendra Modi assumed power.
 
 He also said PDP leader Abdul Nasser Madani, CPM leaders   and   were arrested after implicating them in fake cases.
 
