Taking a   can lead to a multitude of experiences in a young adult’s life that can eventually make them a better person in their life later. A gap year is a lengthy, often year-long break taken between high school and college. Although seemingly unpredictable, there are various things that a student can do during that period — such as travelling, volunteering to work for an NGO, pursuing a   or taking up a job. At the end of the gap year, the youngster not only learns about a lot of things, but also becomes more mature and independent. Here are a few successful gap year stories...

 
 
 Ramya Devaraj, who is now pursuing media studies, took a year off because she had a lot of   and couldn’t narrow it down to one. She started with interning and volunteering at an NGO that provides educational facilities to underprivileged children after their school hours. Ramya taught an 8th grader there, apart from helping the organization with marketing and fundraising activities. “I gained experience as well as developed people skills, as I was working in a professional environment. It was an invaluable experience that I’m glad that I took it up,” she said. 
 
  
 
 Sunidhi Gupta, after her PU examinations, found herself suddenly unsure of the prospects for joining college. “I didn’t want go to college simply because it was expected of me. I wanted to take a gap year since I had some psychological issues. I needed some time off for myself and to do what I love. So, I moved to Mumbai and joined a one-year dance programme. It was super hectic, but it gave me a lot more perspective about what I want to do in life and where I stand mentally,” she says.
 
  
 
 Pratham Sheshadri, who was previously a science student, set out to take a year off from college. “I took a year to rekindle my interests and find out what I am good at. I was ready to experiment with things, and finally chose multimedia. Movies, visual effects and graphics interested me. I found myself working for a filmmaking firm. The year passed quite fast and I learned a lot about movie-making,” he says. Pratham is currently studying at a media and design college.
 
  
 
 While studying medicine, Abhijeet Singh found out that he was losing interest in that field and he decided to leave the course. He, then, took up volunteering work at a primary school. “I collected money from the sponsors and bought study materials like bags, books and other stationery items,” he says. He is currently looking for a university that offers a psychology course.
 
  – Anusha Nag
 
 
