PANCHKULA: Many   and   here were flooded in just a few hours, and this was just the first day of the  . The marooned people cursed the municipal corporation for delaying the pre-monsoon cleaning of road gullies.

 Water gathered in poor colonies and around the major roundabouts of Sectors 19, 16, 12, and 15. In Sector 19, the water rose up to 3 feet and entered the houses. The affected people said the local councillor and the   administration were aware that the streets were vulnerable to   but they had not acted on repeated complaints.
 
 Suresh Kumar, a local, said: “Every time the rain is heavy, we have to stand outside the house, ready with suction motors, to stop the street water from coming in”. Housewife Savita Kalra said: “Still, the water always beats us. Today, it damaged all our furniture.” Several two-wheelers skidded near open sewers and the water stalled the engines of many cars.
 
 Ravinder Pathak (52) of Sector 19 said: “For 10 days, the MC ignored the broken lid of a gutter in the area and today a truck and a car got stuck in the hole and caused a traffic jam.” Local councillor Ravi Kant Swami said: “I have raised this issue in the House several times.” Mayor Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia said: “Sector 19 gets flooded because it’s a lower ground than the railway crossing area of Baltana. The councillors of both wards have met to work out a solution.”
 
 The engineering wing of Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA) denied the city streets were flooded. “The drainage system of Panchkula maybe 25 years old but it still works during heavy showers. It has more than 150 pipes of different size under the surface. Panchkula is 100 feet lower than the lowest Himachal Pradesh, so whenever it rains in the hills, water gushes into Sectors 1-to-12 first and takes half an hour to clear,” said an engineering wing official of  .
 
 “The rainwater was stranded on some uneven internal roads where the drainage gullies had not been repaired,” an engineering department official said. It made the potholes invisible and made driving even more difficult. Citizen Welfare Association president SK Nayar said: “Complaints to the deputy commissioner and the municipal commissioner have no effect. The broken road gullies keep giving   a bad start.”
 
