Giving up was never an option for Sister Teena Jose. At the age of 10, she had decided to become a nun, inspired by  , and for permission, she fought with her ‘strict’ ex-military dad until he relented. Now, in her 60s, Sister Teena’s soft spoken exterior belies the firebrand inside, but start talking about law and she instantly transforms into a tough-talking legal professional.

 So what made Sister Teena, principal of a successfully run vocational training institute in Ernakulam, study law? “One among our orphanage inmates, who was married off to someone in the outskirts of the city, was found dead under mysterious circumstances at her in-laws’ house. We were really upset. She was one of the smartest and sweetest children we had. Though we wanted to find out what caused her death, none of us sisters knew how to go about it. Prayer was our only recourse and we gradually started living with the grief.” 
 
 Tears roll down her cheeks even now as she recollects the incident, which happened around 1989. “It was difficult for us to recover from the shock. And the children in the orphanage started airing their concerns about marriage. ‘Will this be our fate too after marriage? Won’t there be anyone to speak for us?’ they asked us.’’ Sister Teena didn’t know the answers. “We were ignorant about the police, court and law. Above all, we were scared as well,” she says.
 
 That was the first time Sister Teena felt the urge to study law but she had no clue where to begin. In course of time, the children at the orphanage went back to their daily routine but it was always there at the back of her mind. “A few more instances occurred, when I felt that there was a need to react. One day, I decided that enough was enough and spoke to my Provincial. To my surprise, she asked me to proceed,” Sister Teena recalls.
 
 Like most nuns who choose teaching or nursing to serve the world, Sister Teena too had opted for teaching as her mission. “I joined the evening batch of LLB at  . During the day, I continued teaching at the school and took care of the orphanage after returning from college.”
 
 After successfully juggling her classes and duties, Sister Teena completed her LLB in 2004. “I was excited. I went and paid `4800 at the sessions court bar on January 16, 2005, under the aegis of the Bar Council of Kerala. The enrolment was on a Monday. On Friday evening, I got a call from the Bar Council. When I went there, they said that I was not entitled to enrol, as sisterhood was a vocation in itself. And that a lawyer was not supposed to have another salaried profession. I couldn’t enrol that year.”
 
  She was shattered but the law graduate in her knew what to do next. “I filed a writ petition in the High Court and a single bench passed a judgment in my favour, permitting priests and nuns to enrol as advocates. However, the Bar Council filed a writ appeal challenging the single judge’s order,” she says.
 
 By then the news had spread. A priest named Fr Thomas Puthusserry and another nun named Sister Tessy who also faced the same predicament as Sister Teena, joined in her fight. And finally, in March 2006, a division bench of the High Court, comprising Chief Justice V K Bali and Justice J B Koshy, declared that “the clergy — be it a priest or nun — as a class professing religion, would not attract the bar for entry into the profession as created under the Bar Council Rules.” In other words, the ban was not applicable to the clergy anymore.
 
 Thus, on May 21, 2006, Sister Teena, along with seven others, enrolled as advocates. “We were six priests and two nuns. We met for the first time on our enrolment day. It was a day of victory and rejoicing,” says Sister Teena. Not only was she donning the long cherished lawyer’s robe, she was also creating history as the first advocate in her congregation, Mother of Carmel, and also the catalyst in bringing out the momentous decision from the Court.
 
 “However, the Bar Council wasn’t happy with the decision and they approached the Supreme Court. The battle continued for 13 years, until the SC rejected the Bar Council’s appeal against the HC ruling, and said that there was no objection to priests and nuns pursuing the legal profession. The order was issued last week,” she says.
 
 Since 2008, Sister Teena has been practising as a lawyer in Kerala. “Even as the legal tussle continued, I started my job as an advocate. It wasn’t easy in the beginning as I was entering a world whose horizons were beyond Satyadeepam and Deepika that we get to read in our library. But by the grace of God, I always received support from my colleagues,” she says.
 
 Soon, Sister Teena started receiving independent cases as well. “People trust me better as I am a nun. They know I won’t lie. I have been handling different kinds of cases and have never found any of it beyond my capability. I work for the poor and needy,” she says, adding that she has never hesitated to speak against the clergy as well, if needed. 
 
 “Once I found some misappropriation of property in a school under their congregation at Njarakkal. “I spoke against them, but the very same people who supported my studies alienated me for it. But I clearly told them that we should always stand up for truth,” says Sister Teena in a firm voice, while quietly telling the photographer that she doesn’t want her picture taken outside the convent.
 
