HYDERABAD: Two young and influential leaders of the   (TRS) will be on stage together at a political rally in Armoor of Nizamabad district on April 6. The   siblings, minister   and   member  , will share the dais at the ' ' in Armoor, one of the series of such events being addressed by Rama Rao. 

 Though the Armoor meeting will not be the first in Nizamabad district for Rama Rao, who holds multiple portfolios in the Telangana cabinet, he had not shared the dais with his sister Kavitha at a public meeting in the past two and half years. The '  (district development meeting) is one where all the district MLAs, MLCs and MPs have been asked to take part. Similar district meetings are to be held in the weeks to come where the TRS leaders will elaborate on several development programmes taken up by the TRS government so far. The meetings will also highlight the successful implementation of different schemes by the TRS government in the past 32 months. 
 
 Sources in the TRS party said the meeting in Armoor assumes some significance as TRS supremo and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had announced his party's first candidate for the 2014 assembly elections at a public meeting in the town. In that meeting on May 13, 2013, Chandrasekhar Rao had declared that A Jeevan Reddy would contest as the TRS candidate for Armoor assembly constituency. 
 
 This year, while the TRS plenary is being organized in   on April 21, the formation day public meeting is being planned in   district. "The state government has taken up several developmental activities in the state, especially in Armoor. The Armoor municipality got 6 crore recently and is expecting more funds from the municipal administration department. We are planning to mobilize about 30,000 people for the meeting to be held at the mini stadium," Armoor MLA Jeevan Reddy told TOI on Tuesday. 
 
  KT Rama Rao, who holds multiple portfolios in the Telangana cabinet had not shared the dais with his sister Kavitha at a public meeting in the past two and half years. 
 
