GURUGRAM: Two weeks after the Supreme Court order banning   within 500m of national and state  , almost all prominent pubs, restaurants and hotels in   have managed to find a way around the restriction. Without moving an inch. Thanks to innovative ways adopted by the outlets in changing their entry and exit points.

 On Wednesday, the excise department re-measured motorable distance of   and restaurants in Sector 29, and found those which were within the 500m zone earlier, are all now beyond the limit. Measurement was already completed in   and nearby areas. Only pubs and restaurants on Sohna road await re-measurement.
 
 Although most of the Sector 29 joints have been marked safe, many haven’t yet started   liquor again. They are waiting for a final approval from the excise department. “The measurement was completed today, but we’re awaiting final approval before starting to serve liquor,” said Ashwin Chaudhary of Adda by Striker, adding they had stopped serving liquor on their own, and applied for re-measurement.
 
 He, however, lamented the huge loss to the industry and threat to large number of jobs caused by the uncertainty. “Business is down for two weeks,” said Chaudhary, adding they are hoping to get approval from the authority at the earliest.
 
 Deputy commissioner Hardeep Singh said measurement of most places have been completed, but not all. “After completing the measurement of all eateries, the excise department will submit a report,” said Singh, adding the final decision to reissue licences will be taken by the excise commissioner. 
 
 Two day ago, entries and exits to Sector 29 were shifted to increase the motorable distance from NH-8. Measurements in Sector 29 had earlier been taken on April 1, at the end of which, 11 joints, among them big names like Warehouse Cafe and Adda by Striker, shut shop, while six others, including Prankster, closed their bars.
 
 In the reworked route, traffic entering from NH-8 into the road going towards Huda City Centre, and, instead of the left turn into Sector 29 after Crowne Plaza, take a left after Gymkhana Club. Exiting cars will take Leisure Valley road, take a left back towards Gymkhana Club, before taking a U-turn towards NH-8.
 
 Liquor ban within 500m of a highway
 
 
