GURUGRAM: The   has come under scanner yet again as the   arrested a 33-year-old sweeper of an NGO-run private school for allegedly molesting two Class 3 students. The accused,  , was produced in a city court on Thursday and sent to judicial custody. Kumar is from Jharkhand, and now is a resident of Nathupur village in DLF-3 area.

 According to police, Kumar tried to sexually harass the girls studying in Vidya School in DLF-3 S-block, when they had gone to the school washroom on Monday. Kumar was caught on CCTV camera trying to forcibly hug the girls, police said.
 
 The girls revealed their ordeal during a counselling session on “good touch and bad touch” in the school, following which the school authorities swung into action and reviewed the CCTV footage, which showed Kumar following the girls who were coming out of the washroom, and trying to forcibly hug them. 
 
 The school authorities then approached the police on Wednesday and handed over the accused to them. “The girls told us that Kumar misbehaved with them. He held their hands and tried to hug them, but they managed to escape. We examined the CCTV footage which strengthened the girls’ claims. We called their parents to meet our POCSO (protection of children from sexual offences Act) committee. Even the accused was summoned. 
 
 “We approached the police after he confessed to have committed the crime,” alleged school principal V Suprabha in a complaint filed by her at the women’s police station.
 
 Despite several attempts made by TOI, the school principal could not be contacted for her comment.
 
 Acting on her complaint, an FIR was registered against the sweeper under section 10 (sexual assault) of the POCSO Act at the women’s police station. He was later arrested.
 
 Police said the authorities of schools in the city became more vigilant. In this case, the principal of the school took the initiative to file a complaint against the sweeper for misbehaving and harassing the students. Though the police contacted families of the girls, they are yet to record their statements.
 
 “After receiving the complaint, an FIR was registered against Kumar with immediate effect. We have summoned the students to record their statements, which will be done before a city court under Section 164 of CRPC soon,” said inspector Kailash Yadav, SHO, women’s police station.
 
 
