March 2016: Ritwik Shah*, 35, an investment banker based in Singapore, was packing to attend his college alumni meet back in Delhi. The expectation: to be ‘one of the boys’ again, crack the same ol’ jokes in a “language all our own”. The reality: It was all that and much more. “It was like putting a fish in water – a fall back to my natural self without any baggage,” he says.
 It’s not like Shah considers his wife and kids as baggage, or his life as drudgery. Male friendships like Shah’s where they meet once a year — be it at an alumni meet or an all-boys outing — are absolutely typical. Researchers say women’s friendships are face-to-face: they meet, talk, share secrets and even cry together. Men’s friendships are side-by-side: they play golf, watch football games, and meet for drinks.
  
  
 
  
  Psychiatrist and stress expert Dr   says, “The three stages of friendships for both remain the same: finding, making and keeping a friend. Finding friends is equally difficult for men and women; it’s the making and keeping friends where   excel.” Psychiatrist Dr Sanjay Chugh attributes it to the difference in male/female communication style. He says, “Men are problem solvers while women are nurturers.” Life coach Milind Jadhav says, “For women, a large part of their emotional support comes from being heard. Men too have the need to feel heard but for them support means an active conversation where they get ideas on how to fix things.”
  
  
 
  
  Consciously or otherwise, many men believe that talking about personal matters with other men is not manly. The result: less intimate, more casual friendships. A 2013 survey found that 79% of men would need “a strong, loving marriage” to feel they were “having it all”, while 66% of women felt the same. For most men the spouse becomes the confidant, which puts a lot of pressure on romantic relationships. Women, on the other hand, hold on to their platonic friendships and don’t use a romantic relationship to meet their connection needs. So, after a breakup, usually men tend to feel more alone and isolated.
  
  
  
 
  
  Studies show that women start rekindling friendships around age 40. Men, meanwhile, tend to build friendships until their school or college, but there’s often a fall-off after that. Reasons: Male friendships are the first casualties of career growth, geographical moves and also marriage. Chugh notes that the male need for communication goes down after they get involved in their career. In his book Lonely at the Top: The High Costs of Men’s Success, writer Thomas Joiner analysed decades of research to conclude that manly pursuit of status, power, wealth, may have led to great rewards in work but at the expense of loving, caring friendships. Men disproportionally strive for wealth, success and power compared to women.
  
  Author and life coach   also attributes it to the classic male ego, “where they don’t want to appear weak.” Rao regularly comes across men in the corporate world who may be professionally high but emotionally stunted. He calls depression “No. 1 non-communicable disease in corporate India”.
  
  While not all depression can be linked to a lack of friends but friendship plays a big role in overall health. A 10-year Australian study found a link between friendships and long life. In 2015, Harvard researchers reported that strong social ties promote brain health.
  
  
 
  
  Barmi says that men need to rethink their conversation style. “Men talk facts, maybe it’s time to talk feelings. In fact, a lot of men go for therapy because they claim they have no one to talk to,” says Barmi. Rao would like to encourage men to build a solid network of confidants.
  Maybe pick a thing or two from women friendships? For starters, leverage friendships for its core benefit – emotional support. Friendship is an undervalued resource. The consistent message of most friendship studies is that friends make your life better. Don’t lose that friend. Call up now.
  
  *Names have been changed
  
  
