AHMEDABAD : As the world celebrates ‘World Sparrow Day’ to create awareness of the decreasing number of house sparrows especially in urban areas, non-government organizations have joined hands to estimate a count of house sparrows in Gujarat.

 The  , Surat, in coordination with the  , will be collecting data of the sightings of the house sparrow in the respective areas for a week beginning from Monday World  . Apart from collecting data from the people through social media app, hundreds of volunteers across the state will also report sightings of house sparrows in urban and rural area.
 
  Snehal Patel of the Nature Club, Surat, said, “We decided to have a count when I realized that sparrows were decreasing fast in urban areas while there was still sizeable population in rural areas.”
 
 =Patel said the count will pave way for formulating policies to save sparrows. “Since the sparrow was not a scheduled bird it was not a priority of the government, and now the NGOs are joining hands to save the birds from extinction.”
 
 “Volunteers and members of the Bird Conservation Society will be conducting the count. Apart from the rough count, we would also mark areas with high populations of sparrows,” Patel added.
 
 “While increasing urbanization has pushed sparrows out of the city, even in rural areas increasing use of pesticides has led to a drop in their populations,” Patel said.
 
 Dr Bakul Trivedi, an ornithologist and member of the Bird Conservation Society in Ahmedabad said, “Nature Club proposed the count and the BCS, which has members spread across the state, decided to join hands.”“The sparrow count will now be taken every year for a week beginning from World Sparrow Day. This will also help NGOs to learn where and why the numbers are reducing more than others,” Trivedi said.
 
 What the IUCN Red List says
 
 The red list of the   (IUCN) has classified the house sparrow, scientifically known as Passer domesticus, in the category of ‘least concern’ and not in vulnerable categories given their range size. The IUCN has stated that the count of house sparrows are decreasing but remain around 54 crores. It observed that changes in agricultural practices such as the increased use of pesticides and herbicides and the autumn sowing of cereals have led to decreases in food for this species and resulting in a declining population.
 
