NAGPUR: While the   (DMER) claims to be strictly following the promotion policy for teachers in Government Medical Colleges (GMCs) and has even revoked promotions of certain teachers across the state for not qualifying as per the   (MCI) norms, there is no transparency in its method. 

 There seems to be clear bias in the process, according to insiders.
 
 State government had given ad hoc promotions to 212 medical teachers across the state in 16 medical colleges to meet the MCI requirements of number of teachers in each college about one and half years back. 
 
 In recent inspections, MCI refused to recognize these teachers in different posts if they did not qualify for the post as per MCI norms. One of the major norms for this was the number of publications by the teacher.
 
 DMER is learnt to have found 21 such non-qualified teachers in different colleges who did not either have adequate number of publications or they lacked quality as per MCI norms. However, instead of demoting all 21 teachers, DMER has demoted only eight. 
 
 DMER justifies its act by saying others were promoted through the   ( ). “It is the responsibility of DMER to ensure these teachers too meet the norms. They cannot be ignored on such flimsy ground,” said a senior teacher at   (GMCH).
 
 TOI has letter of demotion of only two teachers-- Dr Pankaj Thathe, associate professor (AP) of orthopaedics from the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), and Dr Shailesh Bijwe, AP also in orthopaedics at GMC Gondia --citing the issue of no publications by them. 
 
 Director Dr Pravin Shingare told TOI his office had not transferred or demoted other teachers in order to protect enough number of undergraduate seats for the colleges they are working in. “I cannot allow the loss of seats on account of these teachers. I am working on the issue and will shortly come out with some solution,” he said.
 
 Sources in GMCs said DMER had conveniently skipped demoting certain teachers like Dr Makrand Vyawahare, professor and head of forensic medicine at Gondia GMC who was rejected by the MCI during the last inspection as a professor as he didn’t have a single publication in his name. 
 
 A few others also seem to have been ignored purposefully. These include Dr Mukteshwar Deshmukh, AP surgery and Dr Smita Kumbhalkar, professor of medicine in GMCH Nagpur.
 
 “How can the terms of promotion differ for MPSC selected teachers or those promoted through the departmental promotion committee? MCI norms are applicable to all,” said a senior professor at the GMCH.
 
 INFO-
 
 The publication norms as per MCI include: 
 
 · Indexing agencies are: Scopus, PubMed, Medline, Embase/Excerpta, index medicaus and indes Copernicus
 
 · Types of articles to be considered: original research articles and original research papers
 
 · Criteria for national/international journal: Published by a national/international- Specialty Journal/Journal of a national/international society provided it is included in one of the indexes mentioned above
 
 · Authorship: First author, second author
 
 · E-Journals: e-journals are not included
 
