HYDERABAD: Their hopes of a draw were faint after India set an imposing target of 459 runs, but Bangladesh showed remarkable grit in not caving in without a fight. Whether India's 208-run win on a shirtfront in the one-off Test was a smokescreen to lull the Australians -who are up next -into a false sense of complacency remains to be seen. But in playing the waiting game, India were stretched to the limit at the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium on the final day , sometime frustratingly so. Bangladesh can't be faulted if they entertained hopes of saving the match after they started the day at 103/3, needing 356 to win.

 Two mid-wicket fielders, two fielders crouching in front of the bat as the ninth Bangladesh wicket loomed, a dropped catch by Vijay at slip off Ishant Sharma -the standout bowler on the day -and a stumping chance wasted by Wriddhiman Saha all added to the drama before   applied closure with a successful review against Taskin Ahmed. India, thus, sealed their sixth successive series win since beating Sri Lanka in 2015.
 
 A total of 19 Test wins is an incredible feat by man of the match and skipper Kohli, who eclipsed Sunil Gavaskar's record to continue the Indian party that started in Sri Lanka and blazed a trail that singed South Africa, West Indies, New Zealand, England and now Bangladesh.
 
 The visiting side's hopes hinged on Shakib Al Hasan and Mahmudullah when play resumed here on Monday. But   had other ideas, like making good use of the rough. There was little that Shakib could do after a delivery pitched in the rough to the lefthander, took the glove and went to Cheteshwar Pujara at short leg nine minutes into the day's play .
 
  discovered lightning doesn't strike twice and his wicket in the second hour raised India's hopes of a quick win. The Bangladesh skipper, flush with confidence from his century in the first innings, looked in excellent touch till he chanced his arm against Ashwin. The off-spinner, who received an autographed match ball from the Bangladesh skipper for being the quickest to 250 wickets, claimed Rahim for the second time soon af ter he was introduced into the attack in the day's 18th over, with Jadeja having a role to play in the first two wickets to fall.
 
 Mahmudullah (64; 200min, 149b, 7x4), stood firm, though. With two partnerships ­ 56 for the fifth and 51 for the sixth ­ the Bangladesh No.4 took his team past lunch at 202 for five, but it was a grim battle for survival on resumption. Sabbir Rahman survived India's review off Jadeja with umpire Joel Wilson proved right, but not for long.
 
 Three seamers, two spinners and runs in the bank gave Kohli options to attack. Ishant answered his skipper's call during his afternoon spell of 6-1-12-2 that opened the door for India. The ability to `reverse' the ball make him a dangerous customer and Rahman had no answer to a delivery that jagged back.
 
 Bangladesh unsuccessfully reviewed that decision of Marais Erasmus, but there was no doubting the next as Ishant lured Mahmudullah -who failed to cash in on Saha's largesse off Jadeja -with a short delivery and top edged an intended pull to Bhuvneshwar Kumar. It was a continuation of his fine show in Chennai and Ishant could have had his third, but for Murali Vijay, making a mess of a Mehedi Hasan edge at first slip.
 
 But the double spin attack -after India claimed the second new ball -quickly mopped up the tail, as Taskin survived the soft signal, but not Kohli's indefatigable spirit and a keen sense of opportunity .
 
 
