NASHIK: The presence of   at housing societies and commercial and industrial establishments is hardly a novelty. But many of the agencies in Nashik that provide security services are operating without a licence. 

 Illegal private security agencies have been mushrooming in Nashik, which is also an important industrial hub of the state. Sources in the industry said at least 1,500 agencies are functioning in Nashik, though only 39 are   with the city  .
 
 According to authorised security agencies, there is a need to ensure that all agencies follow norms and hire staff after checking their backgrounds thoroughly. “When one starts a   without fulfilling the norms, there is every possibility that the background check of the employees could be shoddy or never done,” said an official of a security agency.
 
 There are over 3,500 industrial units in the twin industrial areas of Satpur and Ambad. Further, there are thousands of commercial and business establishments that hire private security personnel. 
 
 Security agency operators said it was essential to have permission from the police commissioner and state labour department. However, many agencies take advantage of the rule that firms with less than 20 employees do not need police permission. This reduces the number of agencies registered with the police, they said. 
 
 Nashik police commissioner Ravinder Kumar Singal has decided to chair a meeting of all the top brass of the various private security agencies to inform them about the imperative to follow norms. “The police will crack down on all those security agencies found operating without necessary permissions,” he said. 
 
 Residents had their share of complaints. Vandana Shelke, who resides in a complex with 300 flats and row houses on Nashik Road, said there are frequent changes in the security guards deployed on duty. “A few months back, there was quite a scene in our complex when a security guard shouted at a resident for filling water from the tap in the garden as they had to fill the tank first. Moreover, wrong manner of looking at women is routine among security guards. Nonetheless, we get such security guards removed whenever things go out of control,” she said. 
 
 In November 2012, the city police arrested four persons, including an ex-serviceman, who were planning an armed dacoity at two places in Nashik Road and Upnagar areas on the day of Laxmi Pooja. During investigations, the police found that one of the suspects owned a gym in Nashik Road and also ran a security agency that recruited nearly 60 to 70 personnel.
 
 In July 2013, the Deolali Camp police booked a person for running a security agency without any permission of the police commissioner. The agency was asked to shut down and end their services. 
 
 Santosh More, a proprietor of a security agency, told TOI that generally persons having enough financial and political backing own these security agencies. They continue to operate without appropriate permissions and licences. “Even when these agencies suddenly find themselves in the midst of some problem or come under the scanner of the government, they use their influence to wriggle out of such situations,” he claimed. 
 
