The under-17 squad emphatically voted for Amarjit to lead India. He will not disappoint

 Except for   Kiyam, nobody was surprised when coach Luis Norton de Matos announced the captaincy poll results and anointed the midfielder as India captain for the Fifa U-17 World Cup at home.
 
 From among the 27 players who voted, Amarjit was in the list of 26 players, most of them as their first choice. It showed his growing popularity within the team but, surely, there was one player who opted not to vote for him.
 
 “That was me,”laughs Amarjit, as he sits down to speak about his new-found status and increased responsibilities.
 
 “I don't think it would be fair on my part to nominate myself for the post. Who praises his own self ? I didn't vote for myself but I am delighted that my teammates did,”says the 16-year-old from Manipur.
 
 Amarjit's admission that he didn't nominate himself, when all others did, is in tune with his personality . Shy , almost unassuming, Amarjit had the captaincy in the past, but former coach Nicolai Adam, who had given him the honour in the first place, later chose his midfield partner Suresh Singh for the AFC U-16 Championship last year.
 
 It never mattered to Amarjit that he didn't have the captain's armband. “We are all juniors and at this stage, it doesn't matter.
 
 Perhaps if I was leading senior India and my captaincy was stripped, I would have felt it. But at this level, we are all learning. I feel everyone should get a chance to lead,”he says.
 
 His quiet nature on the field had prompted Nicolai to strip him of the captaincy but for him it was business as usual on and off the field. He was the undisputed Mr Popular in the team and, now, he was assertive on the field too.
 
 For instance in the last friendly against Mauritius, the No. 8 of the India's junior squad lost his cool when his teammates gave away the ball too easily, or came up with a terrible first touch.
 
 “Yes, it's true that I'm generally quiet but sometimes I need to shout. There is a limit to what I can see and keep mum. There is time for everything. But, generally, I tend to stay close to everyone. We have to help each other,”says Amarjit.
 
 It is this trait that has endeared him to everyone. On the field, of course, nobody works as hard as him; coaches who have worked with him testify how he drags himself to the training ground even on an off day .
 
 “If my teammates had chosen someone else for the captaincy, I would have been happy with that as well. We have many leaders in the team and because they need one to represent them on the field, they chose me.
 
 “Even during our World Cup preparations, we have had many captains. I am happy that I have been given the chance to lead India the World Cup but, honestly , all that I ever wanted and dreamed was to be in the starting eleven when India play the World Cup,”he says.
 
 On October 6, when Amarjit leads India out in the opener against the US, it would be a proud moment for the Manipur lad. His parents would be even prouder but the proudest will be his teammates. As the poll results showed, nobody deserves the honour as much as the unassuming midfield lynchpin.
 
 
