BENGALURU: Though assembly elections are a good 14 months away, Karnataka is already seeing netas shifting loyalties. And this party-hopping is only expected to grow with close to a dozen sitting legislators planning to switch sides over the next few months.

 The BJP, which managed to get senior Congress leader and former minister V Srinivas Prasad on its side, seems to be the favourite choice of party-hoppers. Prasad turned against the Congress after he was dropped from the Siddaramaiah ministry.
 
 On Tuesday, sitting legislator from JD(S) Dinakar Shetty crossed over to the BJP camp along with Pramod Hegde, a prominent Congress leader from Uttara Kannada and a former close aide of industries minister R V Deshpande. The trend will intensify with the saffron outfit set to admit former Congress ministers M H Ambareesh and Kumar Bangarappa, besides former JD(S) MLA Parimala Nagappa and former Congress MLA JD Naik, point party sources.
 
 Former minister K Jayaprakash Hegde and independent MLA from Kundapur, Halady Srinivas Shetty are already in the BJP fold. Shetty who had left the BJP after his name was dropped from the list of ministers has now decided to return to his parent party. With Udupi-Chikkamagaluru MP Shobha Karandlaje planning to contest the assembly polls by resigning her   seat, BJP plans to field Hegde in her place. Hegde had lost to Shobha by a close margin in the last Lok Sabha polls.
 
 The eight JD(S) legislators who were suspended from the party for cross voting in favour of Congress candidates in the Rajya Sabha and legislative council polls last year are reportedly in talks with the Congress and BJP. While many are keen to join the  , some are desperately hoping that the party will take them back.
 
 Suspended JD(S) MLA   representing Chamarajpet in Bengaluru is seriously contemplating joining Congress or the Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). Former minister and Nagamangala MLA N Cheluvaraya Swamy is desperately looking to return to the Gowda camp.
 
 Rebels want their way
 
 Chief Minister Siddaramaiah is hoping to net at least five of the seven rebel JD(S) MLAs ahead of polls, but the legislators have reportedly told him that they won’t join unless they are assured of party tickets in constituencies of their choice. He along with energy minister D K Shivakumar has reportedly held talks with Madhu Bangarappa, president of JD(S) youth wing, to rope him into the party. The intent being to strengthen the party’s base in BJP state president B S Yeddyurappa’s home district, Shivamogga.
 
 However, seeking to make light of the defections, Congress leaders here said that those who had left the party had been told that they won’t be renominated. “The rush to join BJP is an indication of the wave that is building in favour of the party,” said BJP state general secretary Shobha Karandlaje. 
 
