As the mercury rises, the inhabitants of Trivandrum and   are getting some extra help to cool down

 Two-and-a-half year old Sravan used to be hesitant when it was time for a bath, but lately with the temperature soaring, he eagerly waits for his caretaker Raman to help him with a shower. Sravan is the youngest white tiger of the   who gets a daily bath during summer.
 
  With the mercury levels rising, it’s not an easy task for the zoo authorities to keep the animals ‘cool’ and healthy. In Trivandrum, the zoo officials have come up with special plans to ensure that the scorching summer   doesn’t hit its total of 128 species housed in about 36 acres of area. In Thrissur, the vets have made arrangements to provide proper shade and enough drinking water for the animals and birds.
 
 
 
 
 The zoo authorities in Trivandrum have started giving showers to animals around two-three times a day. Though the bath is given to all, the furry inmates find it more ‘relaxing,’ say the caretakers. It has become a routine affair for caretaker Raman to start his day with a shower to Malar, a female white tiger. Talking about the cub Sravan, Raman says, “He is very playful and behaves like a small kid when we call him to give a bath. He enjoys the scrub we give him with hands, the most. Additionally, we have kept a pedestal fan near Sravan’s enclosure. We also refill the tigers’ pond regularly so that they could take a dip whenever they feel so.”
 
 Apart from Sravan, Bengal tigers like George, Rahul, Kiran, Manu and Ponni (lone female) and the three lions are also given baths. Deers and bears too are given baths to maintain their body temperatures.
 
 Similarly, in Thrissur zoo, which houses tigers and leopards, a large pool is where these felines venture out to chill. Binoy Babu, veterinary surgeon, says, “While we ensure regular water supply, we also look for symptoms such as panting and drooling in animals.
 
 If we notice such discomfort, we give extra care.” The ostriches in the zoo are sprayed water at regular intervals, to keep them calm.
 
  Elaborating on Trivandrum Zoo’s summer plans, its superintendent, TV Anilkumar says, “For summer we have installed water sprinklers, fans and coolers in some of the animal enclosures. We already have a water recycling plant for gardening purpose. While the animals are provided drinking water by the city corporation, water from the natural pond inside the zoo is used for bathing them. Plans are also afoot to set up more air conditioning systems if the temperature rises abnormally.” 
 He adds that the aquatic birds like herons, white ibis, storks and pelicans do not face much problems during summer as they have been housed in spacious open enclosure with provision for sprinklers and an artificial pond.
 
  The zoo’s reptile house has even seven anacondas, which are kept in glass cages.
 C Thulaseedharan, supervisor of the reptile house says, “Since their arrival from a Sri Lankan zoo in 2014, the anacondas have been kept in air-conditioned cages as they are accustomed to cold environment. We refill the water in their cages every now and then.”
 
 
 
 
 As part of the summer care, the diet plans of animals have a lot of cool food items in the menu. While the Thrissur zoo houses animals who are used to the tropical climate, Trivandrum has even Himalayan black bears.
 
 “For herbivores, we have modified their diet and provide seasonal fruits which have more water content. The black bears are given ice punch with fruits like watermelon,” says Jacob Alexander, senior veterinary surgeon of the zoo. Radhakrishnan Nair, an animal keeper says, “We give them a balanced diet with fruit ice punch and honey which are their favourite. Cucumber, rice, pineapple, pumpkin pieces and two boiled eggs form their daily diet.”
 
 To keep the apes hydrated, the zoo has been providing a menu that has groundnuts, bananas, variety fruits, sugarcane, sprouted pulses, vegetables and spinach.
 
 
 
 Just like humans the animals are also prone to summer diseases and heat strokes. The zoo authorities have added health supplements to animals’ diet to ensure their wellbeing. According to the zoo vet, Jacob Alexander the medical add-ons are given by mixing it with food items. “Every animal is provided with essential vitamins and B-complex supplements apart from their diet. For birds and deers, we mix electrolyte solutions and vitamin powders in the drinking water to reduce dehydration and heat stress. For carnivores we sprinkle the vitamin E and B-complex powder on the meat pieces. Monkeys are given tonics and vitamins using syringe dips in their mouths,” says Jacob.
 
