NEW DELHI: The new guidelines for   admissions may do away with the  . Officials in the directorate of education said all   in the open category — 75% — may be handed over to applicants accepted on the basis of neighbourhood criteria.

 The guidelines for the 298 private schools on public land are yet to be released. On Wednesday, a meeting was held between the director of education and members of various committees and school principals. They discussed about the definition of a school’s neighbourhood. 
 
 The back and forth between the various stakeholders and the government on definition of neighbourhood can be a reason for delay in the release of guidelines, as the new rules might lead to scrapping of management quota. 
 
 Senior DoE officials said keeping 75% seats entirely for the neighbourhood criteria might nullify management quota for schools on public land. These schools reserve 25% seats for students from economically weaker sections. Not denying   to children from neighbourhood is a condition on their land allotment deeds. 
 
 However, sources said, the extent of impact will depend on a range of other factors — the number of seats a school had at entry level, how densely or sparsely populated its neighbourhood is, presence of other schools close-by. For any seat left vacant , the old criteria and quota being followed by the remaining 1,400 schools might be applicable.
 
 “Schools said their autonomy will be hit and that private schools on government land are being further divided into two categories. We also discussed the legal provisions related to distance and neighbourhood in the Right to Education Act and the Delhi School Education Act and Rules,” said an official.
 
 According to Ameeta Mulla Wattal, principal of Springdales School, Pusa Road, the neighbourhood criteria cannot solely be used to fill a majority of seats in a school. 
 
 “Delhi is not a neighbourhood school city. There are areas like Sarita Vihar and university areas that have none or few schools. Meanwhile, my school is in a line of seven others in a market area. So picking out students on the basis of neighbourhood is not a viable option, because it will make the school very inclusive and cut down on the aspirations of parents who want to send their wards to certain schools,” she said. However, she said, the whole process of taking stakeholders’ opinion was a positive move.
 
 
