SURAT: All is not well in the Indian diamond industry ahead of the   festival. More than 15 diamond companies in Surat, Mumbai and   owned by Gujarati diamantaires may lose crores of rupees following the Antwerp-based diamond company, Exelco NV seeking bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 in the US court. 

 According to the court filing documents accessed by TOI, Exelco NV, which also owns other diamond and jewellery firms in Antwerp and the US, has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the Delaware district court in the US on estimated liabilities of $50 million to $100 million.
 
 The company has given a list of 99 creditors including banks, financial institutions, diamond and jewellery companies in India, Antwerp and Dubai. The company has listed top 20 largest creditors, where names of 10 diamond companies owned by Indians are mentioned. 
 
 Industry sources said the company in question was a   sightholder until March. Earlier, it was in the list of De Beers’ accredited buyers, including many Indian diamond firms, who have the liberty to buy rough diamonds on ad hoc basis according to their requirement. 
 
 The company has been a major supplier to some of the world’s leading jewellery brands in the US, Hong Kong, China, etc. The polished diamonds were purchased directly from the companies located in Mumbai, Surat and Antwerp in Belgium on credit. 
 
 Sources said co-founder of Exelco, Jean-Paul Tolkowsky, is the great nephew of Marcel Tolkowsky, who is famous for inventing the ideal-cut round brilliant diamond in 1919.
 
 According to the reports, Belgium-based  , a leading financial institution, had seized assets belonging to Exelco NV from the company’s offices, in an attempt to recover unpaid loans. An Antwerp court later ordered KBC to return the goods as Exelco was on track to repay loans to the bank by 2020.
 
 Diamond industry analyst Aniruddha Lidbide told TOI, “The diamond industry worldwide is financially unstable and the bubble is set to burst. This has started with Antwerp’s Exelco NV. In the recent past, three companies have gone bust for loan defaults to the tune of over $150 million. The bankruptcy filing has created a huge impact on Indian diamond industry. The industry is totally unsecured ahead of the Diwali festival.”
 
