BIJNOR: “While Prime Minister   is a ‘maha-thug’ (big conman) because he did not stand by the various promises he made, Jama Masjid Shahi Imam Syed Ahmed Bukhari is ‘bikaau maal’ (for sale) because he was with the   till a few days ago but has now announced support for Mayawati,” said Samajwadi Party leader and UP minister   at a rally in Bijnor on Sunday. Khan further said that a CBI investigation will be set up to inquire into the Peda clashes.
 
  At the rally, held at Bijnor’s BIC College, Khan lashed out at Modi and said, “The PM betrayed the people of India. He showed false dreams by making hollow promises. The BJP did nothing for the common people of India. The good days have come only for Adani, Ambani and Vijay Mallya. Modi had promised during the   election campaign in 2014 that black money will be brought back to the country and over Rs 15 lakh each will be deposited in the bank accounts of the poor. But not a single paisa has been given to the poor. Instead, people have been made to stand in long queues to get their own money from banks.”
  
  The senior SP leader added, “Modi talks about giving respect to women but he himself does not follow it, as he made his old mother stand in a queue to get money from a bank. He does not give proper respect to his wife. How can a man who does not care about his mother and wife care about other women of the country?”
  
  “The Prime Minister called me a puppy. Sakshi Maharaj of the BJP called me a dog. These people do not have etiquette and manners. Their language is filthy,” Khan said, adding that the BJP was always trying to create enmity between communities to form the government.
  
  “That party is sowing the seeds of hatred in the minds of people. Hatred begets nothing except destruction,” Khan added.
  
  Speaking on the Peda riots last year, the SP leader said, “The inquiry should be entrusted to the CBI, so that the truth is revealed. So far, four villagers have been killed in the riots.”
  
  Khan also alleged that while the BJP had made the Ganga and cow protection its electoral agenda during the Lok Sabha election campaign, the Modi government had done little for it after coming to power.
  
  Calling the Imam of Jama Masjid a person ‘for sale’, Khan said, “A few days ago he was with the SP and now he is appealing to Muslims to vote for the BSP. We should be careful of him.”
  
  In a broad hint at Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM, Khan added, “We should also avoid eating Hyderabadi biryani because it is very indigestible for us. SP is going to form the government again, but Muslims should get united at this important moment.”
