HYDERABAD: Continuing its special   drive, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) pulled down eight structures in the city on Thursday. 

 Encroachments at   and Banjara Hills Road number 3 were removed by the civic body, and pillars erected for an unauthorised floor were also demolished in Banjara Hills Road number 10.
 
 Authorities also pulled down a building in   for not following the sanctioned plan. In the  , three dilapidated buildings in   and one in  , were demolished. 
 
 The demolitions were carried out peacefully, according to the GHMC officials. "Prior notices have been served to the people before the demolitions were carried out, and people have vacated the houses and demolitions carried out peacefully," said Keshav Reddy, a GHMC official from the town planning department of the civic body. Meetings to create awareness among people about the danger posed by dilapidated buildings were held at zonal level. The GHMC has completed serving notices to the house holds, according to the officials. "The initial notice, the caution notice and the final notice has been served to almost all the houses in dilapidated condition. The notices prepared are self-explanatory" GHMC chief city planner (CCP) S Devender Reddy.
 
  "Caveats have been filed in the lower court so that the demolition process is carried forward without obstacles," said Reddy. Since May, atotal 297 structures have been pulled by the civic body as part of the special drive. The structures include dilapidated buildings, unauthorised constructions, encroachments near storm water drains and encroachments near footpaths.
 
  The drive will continue, according to officials. "The drive will continue till the bottle necks on nalas and dilapidated structures which are a threat to citizen, especially during monsoon are removed," said GHMC in a statement. 
 
 In the month of July, two encroachments near storm water drains, 25 dilapidated structures, 36 unauthorised constructions and 18 encroachments were pulled down by GHMC.
 
 
