PUNE:   continue to be the flavour of the season.

 Kites bearing images of the new currency notes, Prime Minister   and even Bollywood actors who featured in films on wrestling are all the rage ahead of   on January 14. 
 
 The wholesale market in Bohri Ali was flooded with these makes, besides the ever-popular cartoon and superhero-themed kites.
 
 Nylon manja was not on sale at counters, though shopkeepers admitted the demand for the variety was high despite the ban on it by the state government and the National Green Tribunal.
 
 Kites made of glossy gift-wrapping paper, plastic and even ordinary paper sold thick and fast. While many customers came looking for them to use with their family members, many also bought them in bulk to celebrate Sankranti in corporate offices and residential societies. 
 
 Kites of small decorative sizes were also popular among customers who sought them in bright, colourful varieties to decorate office desktops and homes.
 
 Describing the mood ahead of the festival, Godfrey Joseph, who had come to purchase kites in bulk for his software firm located on  , said, “All employees of our company are going to fly kites on Friday. A large chunk of our staff is Gujarati and they consider this an essential part of the festivity. It’s unfortunate that celebrations have toned down over the years. I have bought kites in plain colours and those which bear images of superheroes,” Joseph said.
 
 Atharva Dave, who had come with his mother from  , was excited about buying a lot of kites. “I will fly kites in school on Friday and then with my friends in my neighbourhood on Saturday. The skill is entirely in holding the spool of thread properly, and I can do that well; so I am quite excited,” the 13-year-old said.
 
 Sale has picked up in the last two to three days, said Razia Tamboli. “People come here to buy in large quantities. Kites on children’s themes are the most popular,” she said.
 
 Kites are priced from Rs 3 to Rs 300 a piece, depending on its size and texture. Wholesaler Mansoor Bagwan said, “Kites of Modi and kid-friendly themes are the most popular. We also have some film-based varieites. We are not selling nylon manja this year though there is a huge demand for it. However, people are continuing to source it online and from friends in Mumbai and Bangalore,” he said.
 
