NEW DELHI: After rejecting several PILs seeking video recording of court proceedings, the   finally appeared inclined to relent on Monday and said that as a first step, it would like installation of CCTV cameras in one district court in each state.

 The experiment will be first carried out in the Gurgaon district court. Before passing the direction for installation of cameras in one court in each state to record proceedings, a bench of Justices Adarsh Kumar Goel and U U Lalit decided to send a twomember team -senior advocate R Venkataramani and additional solicitor general Maninder Singh -to the Gurga on district court to examine the working of CCTV cameras. It asked the two senior advocates on Monday to file a report on the feasibility of installing CCTV cameras for recording court proceedings. The Supreme Court has asked two senior advo cates to submit a report within four weeks on the feasibility of installing CCTV cameras for recording court proceedings. It asked the Gurgaon district judge to help the two lawyers make an on-the-spot study . The move is path-breaking, as the apex court had till now refused proposals for installation of cameras inside court rooms to record judicial proceedings in the three-tier justice dispensation system.
 
 The decision came about in an innocuous matrimonial case where the husband had petitioned the apex court seeking a direction for “audio-video recording of proceedings by the trial court to ensure fair trial to the petitioner, may be at the cost of the petitioner“.
 
 Justices Goel and Lalit recalled that the Centre had written to the SC in the past for video recording of court proceedings and also that the   had made a similar recommendation. The bench said it wanted to consider issuing directions for installation of CCTV cameras initially in one court in each state and take the matter forward on the basis of the result of this experiment.
 
 ASG Singh said the ministry of law and justice was yet to file its response and it would be appropriate if the SC examined the issue after the ministry filed its affidavit. The bench agreed and sought a report on the Gurgaon court in four weeks and posted the matter for further hearing on March 21.
 
 In March 2016, an online survey found that 97% of citizens wanted video recording of court hearings and were even willing to pay for recording of their cases. LocalCircles, a citizen engagement platform, conducted the survey , evoking responses from 13,000 persons -75% male and 25% female.“Over 80% of participants said they were willing to pay a retrieval fee for that video if it was a paid service,“ LocalCircles founder Sachin Taparia had told TOI.
 
