GURUGRAM: Youths in Bandhwari, a village on the Gurgaon-Faridabad border, have been struggling to find a prospective match for marriage with stench from a defunct waste management plant turning out to be a major spoiler.

 Villagers claim that the 32-acre landfill, which receives over 1,100 tonnes of garbage from Gurgaon and Faridabad daily, is fast emerging as a social crisis, sending out enough hints as to how environmental issues are impacting most aspects of human life.
 
 A TOI team visited the area and found out that at least 10 girls turned down marriage proposals from young men of the village recently simply because they do not want to spend the rest of their lives amid air, soil and water pollution that threaten serious health hazards.
 
 According to the villagers, there are around 200   here who are hunting for brides without any luck. Apart from spreading diseases and contaminating groundwater, the defunct plant off the Gurgaon-Faridabad road is now also undermining the eligibility of unmarried men.
 
 Twenty-three-year-old Nitish’s fiancée called off their engagement after her family visited the village. “My nephew got engaged in January. After the engagement, we invited the bride’s family to attend a wedding here. During their visit, the family raised serious concerns about the constant stench coming out of the plant. Two days later, the girl turned down the marriage proposal,” Gajraj, Nitish’s uncle, told TOI.
 
 “It has become a big problem for youths here. Reports of rising diseases, groundwater contamination and air pollution have spread to villages across Haryana. Nobody wants to marry off their daughters into a family in this village. Also, there has been a sharp rise in cases of cancer, kidney and liver failure, and skin disease. Why will a girl make this village her home?” said Mangal Tanwar, a Bandhwari resident. He led a group of villagers to meet an NGT panel last month, demanding relocation of the waste plant.
 
 Many youngsters have migrated to other villages and cities while those, who are still living here, are planning to move out. “I am well settled in transport business and earning enough here. But I have decided to move out of the village, to get married and live happily. Many of my friends have already left,” said Shruti (22), another bachelor. 
 
 Raje (40), whose husband Shyamvir is suffering from throat cancer, will never recommend any girl from her village (Baliawas) for marriage into a house at Bandhwari. “Stench has become a part of our life. We always keep our nose covered, still we cannot avoid it. Children fall sick every now and then,” she complained.
 
 Now, the villagers are worried about a proposed waste-to-energy plant to be set up by a Chinese firm here. 
 
 “We were living here peacefully, co-existing with the wildlife of the Aravalis. However,   came up in 2007 as a curse. The Chinese waste-to-energy plant will cause massive air pollution and destroy the village completely,” said Balbir, another resident.
 
 An environmentalist, Vivek Kamboj, has already moved NGT, demanding relocation of the plant which lies in the ecologically-sensitive Aravalis. The plant turned defunct in 2013 after a fire.
 
 
