Cleared/Anil

 Erode: One was killed and two others injured after a truck laden with   turned turtle on the Dimbam Ghat Road near Sathyamangalam in Erode district on Saturday. Following the incident, vehicular   between Tamil Nadu and Karnataka was halted for more than six hours.
 
 The truck fell from hair pin bend 9 to 7, after it failed to negotiate the narrow ghat road. The truck driver was killed, while two bikers sustained injuries in the accident. The deceased was identified as P Kandasamy, 48, of Tirunelveli.
 
 The incident took place when Kandasamy was on his way to Bengaluru via Sathyamangalam and Kollegal through Dimbam Ghat Road from Avinasi in Tiruppur district, transporting chemical spirit in a tanker truck. When he neared hairpin bend 9, he could not turn the tanker at the narrow sharp curve. “So, he decided to reverse the truck,” highway patrol police said. While reversing, Kandasamy lost control over the truck, which turned turtle and landed on hairpin bend number 7.
 
 In the impact, the tanker was completely damaged and chemical spirit was spilled over the road. Two bikers sustained burn injuries as the chemical spilled over their bodies. “The injured were identified as M Sathiesh Kumar, 27 and G Venkatachalam, 34, of Nambiyur near Gobichettipalayam,” the police said. The duo was rushed to the government hospital in Sathyamangalam where their condition was said to be stable.
 
 After the incident, hundreds of vehicles were stranded on both the sides of Dimbam Ghat Road. “As the chemical spirit was spilled over the road, bikers complained of eye irritation and breathing trouble while passing the ghat road,” the police said. They said water was sprayed on the road to reduce the impact of the chemical spirit.
 
 Highway patrol police and Sathyamangalam and Hasanur police officials, meanwhile, stopped vehicles bound towards Coimbatore at Hassanur check post. Similarly, vehicles bound towards Mysouru and Chamaraj Nagar were stopped near Bannari Amman Temple at Bannari near Sathyamangalam in Erode. The traffic was resumed after 6pm.
 
 
