KOLKATA: The city's location, often touted as an advantage due to its proximity to SouthEast Asia, is actually a handicap in attracting direct  . For unlike Delhi and Mumbai, which are barely 10 hour flight from London, the 12hour time between Kolkata and London pushes it just beyond the deadline that can allow an aircraft to do a return trip within the same day.

 “An international flight requires two-hour turnaround time. Thus a flight to Europe from Delhi or Mumbai can return the same day. But for Kolkata to have a daily service, an airline will have to put two aircraft on the sector. That may not be viable at present,“ said   vice-president (commercial) Praveen Iyer.
 
 Air India operated a direct flight from the city to London a decade ago, but it wasn't a daily service.   also withdrew services from Kolkata as it could not introduce a daily frequency. While passenger load has never been a problem, deploying two aircraft to do a daily flight on a route with low yields due to poor occupancy of premium seats has prevented European carriers from venturing into Kolkata. Lack of business in the east has not helped the cause.
 
 Iyer said out-manoeuvring the Gulf-based airlines that serviced the needs of Kolkatans flying West was a big ask. “It is difficult to match the tremendous network that Gulf carriers offer out of Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Doha. The journey is also not bad with a five-hour flight to the Gulf, followed by a 7-8 hour journey to Europe and then another eight hours to the US east coast,“ he said.
 
 Iyer though did not rule out the possibility of a European flight from Kolkata as new generation planes reduced travel time. “There is also a possibility of combining the Europe-bound traffic from Dhaka and Kolkata. Jet Airways has a Dhaka-Delhi flight that carries many who take the Delhi-London connection,“ he said.
 
 While full-service Indian airlines, such as Jet and AI, do minate long-haul international routes, low-cost carriers (LCC), like IndiGo,   and GoAir, consistently clock high loads of 90-95% in the domestic sector. In contrast, Jet and AI are doing 80% loads.
 
 India has been witnessing strong growth in air travel, unaffected by demonetisation.Even demonetisation hasn't affected the growth, with load factor in the industry going up from from 76% before November 80%-85% now.
 
 Aggressive capacity addition by LCCs that have been inducting planes has helped it increase market share. They are reaping the advantage of a price-conscious market by offering tickets at 5%-8% lower rates. Now, full-service carriers are trying to pitch their value anew and offer incentives to fill the price gap. Both airlines offer bonus reward points that can be converted into tickets, bridging the price differential with LCCs. “If one takes into account the food on board and free baggage allowance, we actually offer flyers more value for money,“ an AI official said.
 
