NAGPUR: There was a scene in movie  's 3 Idiots where he tells his friends to follow their passion. 

 Dr  , a Wardha-based physiotherapist, seems to have taken the lesson to heart. He was always passionate about cricket. In fact, he led Wardha in the VCA-organized Inter-district tournament in 2015-16 and also scored four half-centuries. When he was getting admission in BAMS and BDS, Messhram chose physiotherapy, just to remain associated with the game.
 
 The heart and soul he has put in for the last ten years is now bearing fruits. He has been selected for the ongoing West Zone Zonal Cricket Academy Under-19 camp organized by the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( ) at Baroda. It's a big achievement for a small town boy, who resides in the slum area of Wardha where there are more dropouts than graduates.
 
 Last year, the BCCI had invited applications across the country for a five-day exhaustive programme for physiotherapists, trainers and strength and conditioning coaches, updating them about latest trends in sports science and sports medicine. The programme, which was conducted at   ( ), also had information about how Team India functions. Current Team India physio   and former India physio   conducted the programme.
 
 Messhram was one of the applicants at the programme, and later on, was invited for the course. Around 100 physiotherapists attended the course in four batches. While most of them were from state associations, around 30 were chosen based on their impressive CVs. Messhram, 28, was one of them. The invited participants were given study material before they came for the course. They appeared for an examination before the workshop. After five days, the trainees again appeared for the examination based on what they were taught during the workshop. A month later, another online test was conducted. The final result was the aggregate of these three exams. Messhram was one of the top performers with 76 marks.
 
 "I always wanted to be associated with the game. Cricket is my life. It has taught me several things, although I couldn't play beyond Inter-district and Club level. The game has taught me to never give up and keep fighting howsoever adverse the situation you face. To be chosen for ZCA camp is the biggest assignment for me so far. It's great to be working with the next generation of Indian cricket," Messhram told TOI.
 
 His future may be bright, but Messhram's past is full of struggles. There was a time when even basic needs were hard to come by. His late father Madhukar, a clerk, had a difficult time taking care of his four children. In fact, Messhram had to drop out of studies for a year due financial constraints. But he was always a bright student and equally good in sports. "I continued playing cricket even after joining the physiotherapy course. In fact, that was the first time I played proper leather ball cricket. I never found it difficult to manage studies and sports. I am playing Guzder League for the last eight years. I scored 94 in my last 'C' Division match," he added.
 
 Messhram, who is working as a tutor and clinical therapist for neurosurgery department at Ravi Nair Physiotherapy College ( ), encourages the youngsters to take up the sports. "I keep telling youngsters to remain on the field than spending time than be on mobile phones. In India, just like developed countries, morbidity rate due to obesity has been increased to 5%. Whatever I have achieved today is because of my passion. Many people came forward to help me when they saw me working hard. I want to thank Bhaskar Joshi, Purushottam Joshi, Ashok Upadhyay, Ravi Lunge and my late father," he signed off.
 
