GREATER NOIDA: Two months after the   in  , the police on Sunday nabbed   of  , who committed the crime, from   in Greater Noida after a brief encounter.

 The arrested have been identified as gang leader Ashok alias Raju (30), accomplices Rakesh (25), Deepak (20) and Jai Singh. While Raju belongs to Najafgarh in Delhi, Rakesh and Deepak belong to Jhajjar in Haryana and Jai Singh belongs to Alwar in Rajasthan. Two others, Monu and Sanjay, residents of Alwar, managed to escape during the encounter. The main accused, Raju, received bullet injuries in the leg during the encounter and has been admitted to district hospital, Noida.
 
 On the night of May 25, a six-member family of a scrap dealer travelling in a Maruti Eeco was waylaid by the gang on Jewar-Bulandshahr road. The family, accompanied by the driver and his wife, who were also neighbours, was on their way to Bulandshahr to visit a woman relative who had delivered a child. 
 
 The scrap dealer’s four-year-old son was also with them, the family had revealed later. The criminals took the family at gunpoint at around 1.30am. The scrap dealer (42), his brother-in-law (40), nephew (25) and the driver (50) were pushed to the ground. The scrap dealer was shot dead while his wife (35), sister (35), sister-in-law (50) and the driver’s wife (45) were allegedly sexually assaulted. The criminals did not use mobile phones at the time of the crime and hence electronic surveillance could not yield any help. The police formed several teams and also roped in special operations group, surveillance cell, anti-extortion cell, crime branch, STF and teams from Aligarh and Bulandshahr to manually trace the criminals.
 
 A few days ago, the police got information that some members of a Bawariya gang would be meeting under Sabota underpass on Sunday. They police, however, had no clue that it would be the same gang that committed the crime in Jewar. “Six criminals came in a red Maruti Alto to the spot around 2.30am. The police had already made a detailed encounter plan. The gang started firing at police when they saw them,” said SSP Love Kumar. The police returned the fire in which mastermind Raju received two bullet injuries in his leg and tried to flee. The police immediately overpowered him and three others while two managed to escape.
 
 The police found two mobile phones in the car which were switched off. When questioned, the criminals said they had committed rape and murder a few weeks ago near Sabota village and snatched their phones. These phones have been switched off since then. The police later showed the seized phones to the family members of the scrap dealer who easily identified them.
 
 The police also seized a gold chain, a gold ring, a pair of earrings, anklets, three country-made revolvers, 16 live cartridges, a rod and an axle from them. The Maruti Alto had a fake number plate. The male members of the scrap dealer’s family later identified the accused. The family members said the two mobile phones belonged to them but not the gold jewellery.
 
 Giving details of the crime, SSP Love Kumar said that on May 25, six criminals and two accomplices reached the spot near Sabota village in a Mahindra Scorpio. One of the accomplices, a resident of nearby Rabupura, helped others in committing crime. “They had parked the SUV at some distance. Two criminals were waiting in the vehicle while six others got down. They waylaid the Maruti Eeco car by putting a sheet of needles just a kilometre from the Yamuna expressway in Greater Noida. They dragged its eight passengers to a field in Sabota village and allegedly gang raped the four women and killed one family member when he put up resistance,” he said
 
 It was Raju who had fired at the 42-year old scarp dealer, as the latter put up resistance against raping four women family members, he said.
 
 According to the SSP, the forensic report suggested that the two women were gang-raped, refuting the preliminary medical report conducted by the district hospital, which said the women were not raped.“The forensic examination revealed that the women have been gang-raped. The women’s statement to police and court is also part of investigation as they alleged gang rape. The investigation suggests that all the four women were gang-raped. The DNA and other samples of accused will be collected and examined for confirmation,” he said.
 
 
