JAIPUR:   in the Jaipur has led to an alarming spike in fire incidents. The   is receiving two   in every 30 minutes, a staggering rise compared to last two years.

 According to Jaipur fire officials, the maximum incidents of blaze have been reported in VKI area where faulty lines sparked fire and engulfed the entire manufacturing units. “During summer season, the electric wire cables become particularly vulnerable to the increased load capacity which triggers short circuit. Ideally, factory owners should repair cables during the month of February and March to avert such mishaps, but due to their laxity, the incidents of fire continue in areas such as VKI,” fire official Jalaj Ghasiya told TOI, adding that since onset of April, the fire department has reported about 10 to 15 major blaze incidents every day .
 
 The Jaipur fire department operates with 45 fire tenders and 250 personnel, Ghasiya said that unlike previous years, the fire occurrences are being reported in areas like villages and slums. “As the heat conditions in the city intensify, these incidents would only increase. The most common factors that contribute in fire are inflammable chemicals which are stored inside the factory premises. These chemicals are first to go up in flames whenever there is a fire incident,” he added.
 
 Not only industrial units with inflammable chemicals, but villages where dry grass is stacked in open areas under the sun have also caused fire incidents. The fire department faced a major challenge on April 15 when a major blaze threatened to engulf the entire Dhandholi village near Dudu. As many as 20 fire tenders were deployed in the area to douse fire. “The fire in Dudu left behind a trail of destruction, about a dozen cattle were burnt and over 50 cattle sheds were gutted,” Ghasiya told TOI.
 
 The fire department said that all stations have been put on high alert as frequency of calls increases. This week itself, the fire tenders doused fire at major commercial complexes in the city where electric fault engulfed entire shops.
 
 
