CHENNAI:  , whose finances are precarious due to dwindling  , is also incurring huge losses due to ineffective use of locomotives, say insiders.

 Despite little increase in the number of train services and a decrease in goods traffic, the number of locomotives used has increased. Statistics accessed from insiders show there are more   than required.
 
 This is a major contributor to the operating ratio a measure of performance worsening, going from 134.9 to 143.2, in the last two years, say sources.
 
 Statistics show an average of just 80 electric and 60 diesel locomotives are used daily for freight in the zone which has earmarked 170 electric and 110 diesel locomotives for freight. The zone, which has a total of 310 diesel locos, has an excess of around 50 AC locos for passenger operations.
 
 Diesel locos continue to be added despite all major routes being completely electrified.
 
 This has translated into spending more on staff for the excess locos and the average running time of locos being less than 10 hours a day. The Railway Board benchmark is 14-16 hours a day.
 
 Given that a freight locomotive can earn Rs 1.2 lakh an hour, a back-of-the-envelope calculation shows crores of rupees are lost every month due to inefficient loco-usage.
 
 This comes when the zone’s freight earnings are decreasing, leading to an increase in operating ratio money spent to earn every Rs 100. Freight earnings have dropped from Rs 3,045 crore in FY15 to Rs 2,816 crore in FY16 to Rs 2,682 crore in FY17.
 
 In a recent Railway Board review, the zone scored only 40% on diesel loco utilisation and less than 60% on diesel loco failures. It ranked second worst overall based on operational parameters. The zone is also resisting a review which could bring down loco-holding, sources said.
 
 Senior officials are wary of sending these locos to other zones as many are used to hide other failures that can result in train delays. Excess locos can be seen idling at various stations across Tamil Nadu and Kerala, sources say. A number of goods wagons are also unused.
 
 The SR spokesperson denied there were excess locos. “Locos keep moving between railways during train operations. Board reviews loco holdings on a daily basis,” he said.
 
 A senior operations official, requesting anonymity, said this was a temporary issue due to decrease in freight loading and no major increase in passenger traffic. “Once the demand picks up, loco-holding will not seem like an in-efficiency.”
 
