PUNE:   Saurabh Rao, who is also the chairman of the   (RTA), said on Monday they will explore the option of making it mandatory to   to   ferrying school children. 

 As per the existing school transport safety rules, private school vans and autorickshaws are not compelled to deploy female attendants. Such a provision is mandatory only for school buses, whether owned by the school or private individuals. 
 
 Recurring incidents of sexual assault on children by school transport drivers has also prompted the Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO) to plan awareness and counselling sessions in schools as well as for school transporters. 
 
 The collector said that he will soon take up the issue with the school principals, education department and the police. Other options of improving safety aspects will also be considered. 
 
 Rao said, “We will hold discussions with the police department on how things can be worked out with regards to improving safety in private school vans and deployment of female attendants,” he said.
 
 Every day in Pune, over 700 private school vans ferry children to schools. Most of these vans operate on contracts signed with the schools and parents for the purpose. 
 
 Terming sexula assaults on school children as unfortunate, Rao said a comprehensive policy to deal with the situation was being worked out. “We are taking this seriously,” he said, “Meetings have already been held in this regard with school principals and police. Strict steps are being planned. We will apportion responsibility for these lapses, and also intensify action against errant transporters,” Rao added.
 
 He said he will seek details of the latest incident, in Warje, and will ask the authorities concerned to take necessary action. 
 
 Meanwhile, Deputy RTO Sanjay Raut said, “We will seek details from the police station concerned to initiate further action against the offending driver. In such cases, we (first) check if the van holds a valid school transport permit, a driver’s license, character certificate and a contract with the school.”
 
 Raut said his office will also plan awareness and counselling sessions for drivers and transporters. “Constant counselling is vital to preventing such incidents. We will plan sessions for transporters after the ongoing school examinations, with help from experts and lawyers. We will also involve schools and parents. Parents need to monitor the daily transport of their children to schools, and stay in touch with drivers and transporters,” Raut said.
 
 
