LUDHIANA: The government on Saturday unveiled a draft of Punjab’s industrial policy 2017, which promises fiscal incentives for new and existing industrial units and sector wise redressal of some of the biggest issues faced by the businessmen.

 Some of the highlights of the new policy which is likely to be implemented soon, include providing investment subsidy, reimbursement of expenses incurred on host of services and programmes for upgrade of industry and exemption from charges like change in land use (CLU), external developmental charges (EDC), electricity duty and stamp duty.
 
 The policy, to be released on July 25, was by and large lauded by the industrialists. They said the policy promises to address a majority of their issues and concerns and has something for every sector.
 
 Their only concern was the successful and prompt implementation of this policy.
 
 R K Verma, secretary, industries and commerce, unveiled the draft of Punjab government’s industrial policy 2017 in the presence of local industrialists and businessmen in the city on Saturday.
 
 Harish Dua, president, Knitwear and Apparel Exporters Organization, said, “This is for the first time that any state government has taken a serious initiative to solve the real problems faced by the industry including the existing units. We are grateful to the government and officials of the department of industries and commerce for coming out with a policy which has something for all the sectors. The best part is the decision to provide freight subsidy to the exporters, which will prove to be a landmark step in the revival of exports from the state.”
 
 S C Ralhan, former president of Federation of Indian Export Organisations, said, “The fiscal incentive of investment subsidy by way of reimbursement of net SGST is really appreciable.”
 
 Harish Kairpal, finance secretary,  , said, “Whether it’s workers’ issue, skill development or infrastructure development for industry, the draft industrial policy has touched every single concern of the industrialists. My only concern is when will the policy be implemented and in how much time frame the promised incentives will be applicable for businessmen.”
 
 During interaction with Verma, some of the industrialists came up with several suggestions and also shared their problems.
 
 Badish Jindal, president,  , said, “One of the most burning issues which has pushed the state industry towards destruction is corruption in the government departments. The proposed industrial policy is aimed at progress and revival of industry but it won’t be able to meet its goal until we have a strong mechanism to fight corruption.”
 
 Jaswinder Thukral, president, Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association, said, “The master plan of the city has been tampered with by some officials of the local authorities and as a result areas having 60% industries have been declared as residential. Therefore, the master plan should be changed immediately. Besides, the industrial policy of the government is laudable but our only concern is that Chinese company should not be allowed to set foot in Ludhiana by way of investing in cycle valley project.”
 
 Kulwant Singh, president of Chamber of Industrial and Trading Entrepreneurs, said the overall policy looked good but added, “It does not specifically have anything for our machine tool industry which is mother of all industries. Government should also bring one-time settlement scheme for settling dues with the municipal corporation.”
 
 Jatinder Kumar, senior member of the   said, “The cluster allotted to the sewing machine industry does not even have anything at all on the name of infrastructure. A grant of Rs. 100 crores which was released by centre government for the cluster has been returned back due to the apathy of the government officials. State government should take immediate action for revival of this cluster so that sewing machine industry can get a new lease of life.”
 
 Taking note of suggestions, Verma assured that this was just the draft of industrial policy and the issues raised by the industrialists in the meeting would definitely be considered.
 
 Box: Fiscal incentives on cards for MSME units
 
 Reimbursement of net SGST on intra-state sales | 100% for 7 years from date of commercial production with a cap of 100% of FCI
 
 Interest subsidy on term loan | 5% only on border districts and Kandi Area
 
 Support of interest subsidy under   | 5% subject to maximum of Rs 5 lakh per year for period of 3 years
 
 Reimbursement of guarantee fee charged under collateral free credit guarantee trust (CGTMSE) for MSME | 100% of guarantee fee to be reimbursed to micro and small enterprises, subject to maximum of Rs 1 lakh
 
 Exemption from CLU/EDC charges | 50 %
 
 Exemption from Electricity Duty | 100% for 7 years
 
 Exemption from Stamp duty | 100% for purchase or lease of land
 
 Assistance for technology acquisition | 50 % of the cost subject to maximum of Rs. 25 lakh
 
 Assistance for testing equipment for zero defect in the quality of the product | 50% of the cost subject to maximum of Rs 5 lakh
 
 Assistance for environmental compliance | 50% financial support subject to maximum of Rs 25 lakh
 
 Reimbursement of expenses incurred for patent registration | 75% of expenses subject to Rs 10 lakh for domestic patent and Rs 20 lakh for international patent
 
 Reimbursement of expenses incurred on quality certifications | 100% subject to maximum of Rs 10 lakh
 
 Marketing support | Assistance to MSME for showcasing their products at local, national and international events at international and domestic fairs, exhibitions
 
 Freight Assistance to export oriented units | 1% of FoB value of actual freight assistance, whichever is less subject to maximum of Rs 20 lakh
 
