NAGPUR: In   of its own ordinance,   (NU) is not allowing students who have progressed to final semester under the ‘Allowed To Keep Term’ (ATKT) rule to appear for their final examination in the   (MEd) and   (MPEd) courses.

 NU had implemented   (CBCS) semester pattern with effect from 2015-17 for MEd and 2016-17 onwards for MPEd. As per the ‘Standard of Passing’ in the curriculum for MEd, a student is not allowed to appear for the fourth semester final exam until s/he clears all the subjects of first, second and third semesters. Same rule has been included under Letter Grades and Grade Points for MPEd.
 
 However, NU’s Ordinance Number 10, which prescribes ATKT norms, states that a student needs to clear only 2/3rd or 50 subjects in order to appear in the final exam of a course. This rule is applicable to all other courses such as MBA, MSc, MA etc.
 
 Students of MEd were also threatened with dire consequences when they tried to draw the attention of Vice Chancellor SP Kane towards the lacunae on Friday. “Kane had come to Barrister SK Wankhede College of Education on Friday for a meeting. NU PG HoD of MEd Rajashree Vaishanav noticed us waiting to meet him and sent a peon to summon us. When we refused, they noted our names and threatened to fail us,” the aggrieved students said. 
 
 Kane said, “I know about it (the anomaly) and will take corrective measures on Tuesday.”
 
 Vaishanav pleaded ignorance about any anomaly in the ATKT rules for MEd. “I am not aware of any such rule. I wasn’t part of the committee that drafted the new syllabus. No student has failed in my department,” she claimed. 
 
 Pro-Vice Chancellor Pramod Yeole requested TOI not to disturb him on holidays and referred the issue to director, Board of Examinations and Evaluation Neeraj Khaty despite the issue being related to his office as per the new varsity Act.
 
 The students told TOI that many students have failed in one or two subjects or couldn’t appear in third semester for different reasons. They would lose a year because of this rule, they said. Even NU officials agreed that some MPEd students couldn’t appear in third semester as they had to represent the varsity in sporting events. 
 
 NU sources said the rule was wrongly included as there is no such provision that makes it mandatory for ATKT students to have cleared all backlog papers to appear in the final exam of a course. 
 
 When TOI scanned notifications uploaded on the NU website, it found ‘pass all’ rule doesn’t apply to other streams. 
 
 Dean of Education Keshav Bhandarkar admitted that the rule was wrongly prescribed by the committee set up to frame the new CBCS syllabus in 2014. He said though it was amended last year only, the same couldn’t be uploaded on NU website. “By Tuesday, the rule will be repealed,” he said.
 
 When asked why it took so long for the varsity to identify the flaw, Bhandarkar said this is the first batch to which the new syllabus was made applicable and thus skipped the attention of even students. 
 
