NAGPUR: The name of dreaded   has resurfaced within a week’s time in the case of extortion of Rs one lakh on the pretext of seizing vehicles on behalf of a private company. Last week, a special investigation team (SIT) of city police, formed to deal with cases pertaining to land-grab, had booked the gang members for obstructing the management of a primary school from using a building for education.

 Kallu Imran Khan, learnt to be associated with the Jarman Japan gang, has been slapped with extortion charges, along with Monu Sharma, for harassing transporter Santosh Singh   for Rs one lakh to ensure that his vehicles were not seized by them. The two were claiming to represent the private finance company from which Gadri had taken a loan. However, it is unclear whether they were actually representing the firm or were merely using its name to extort money. 
 
 Khan and Sharma also demanded Rs30,000 per month from Gadri for ensuring that his two load carrier vehicles, financed by a private finance company, were not seized. Gadri had around Rs two lakh dues for his two vehicles.
 
 Gadri said Sharma and Khan, along with handful of their accomplices, had whisked him away in their car to Bhandara bypass from Dattawadi before driving away one of his two vehicles to an unknown destination on May 19. They had also forcibly taken him to an ATM at Dattawadi to withdraw Rs5,000 which the gang wanted immediately, despite having already taken Rs5,000 from Gadri. Later, Khan and Sharma informed Gadri that the load carrier which they had driven away was kept in a yard at Mahalgaon Kapsi. Gadri then lodged a complaint against Sharma, Khan and others at Wadi police station.
 
 Last week, an offence of assault was registered against the seizing team of a private financing company, based at Law College Square, after they had attacked another transporter Ghulam Ashrafi at his residence at Teka. An offence was registered against Ravi Tayade and others at   police station for allegedly attacking Ashrafi.
 
