NAGPUR: The Congress party appears to be an apt case of  . While   ( ) president   was on Sangarsh Yatra in the region to demand loan waiver for farmers, his party men in the   (NMC) supported BJP candidate in Ashi Nagar zone for the zone chairperson’s election.

 The election to Ashi Nagar zone chairperson was the highlight of the mini-mayor polls held on Thursday. 
 
 The elections to 10 zones began at 11am at the NMC’s standing committee hall. By the end of the day, the BJP posted a resounding win and claimed all the 10 mini-mayor’s posts.
 
 Additional commissioner Arun Unhade from the divisional commissionerate was the presiding officer. The election concluded at around 1.30pm.
 
 In the last body, the BJP had mini-mayors in eight zones, while the BSP and Congress had won Ashi Nagar and Mangalwari zones, respectively. But this time, the BSP lost Ashi Nagar zone to BJP’s Bhagyashri Kantode.
 
 The BJP lacked majority in Ashi Nagar zonem which comprises 16 corporators with the BSP having 7, Congress 6 and BJP 3. Sources told TOI that the Congress refused to support BSP or take its support to keep BJP away. In fact, the party fielded Bhawana Lonare for the coveted post. Instead, Congress corporators including Manoj Sangole, Parasram Manwatkar, Dinesh Yadav and Bhawna Lonare voted for Kantode.
 
 Senior Congress corporator Sandip Sahare remained absent from the poll indicating his support to the corporators’ decision. The sudden political development also jolted BSP’s camp which relied heavily on Congress support.
 
 “BJP leaders managed to convince Congress corporators to vote for Kantode. BSP fielded first-time corporator Vaishali Narnaware. Kantode got eight votes with Congress support while Narnaware could win only seven votes,” sources said.
 
 Sangole told TOI that there was no whip from senior party leaders. “With a view to continue development works in our respective wards, we extended support to the ruling BJP in Ashi Nagar zone,” he said.
 
 Sandip Joshi, ruling party leader in the NMC and senior BJP corporator, said that as five Congress candidates extended support, Kantode easily won the election.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, city Congress president Vikas Thakre was not available for comments. Leader of opposition Sanjay Mahakalkar said the party had decided to abstain from polling. “I have to check what forced the party corporators to support the BJP,” he said. He, however, refused to comment whether the party will take any action against the five corporators.
 
 In Mangalwari zone too, the BJP easily won the mini-mayor’s post. With eight corporators, BJP fielded Sushma Chowdhari, while BSP with three corporators proposed Sanjay Burewar as its candidate. But the Congress neither fielded any candidate nor supported BSP. As a result, the BJP won this seat without any trouble.
 
 The BJP, however, won mini-mayors’ elections in other eight zones unanimously. Prakash Bhoyar became mini-mayor of Laxmi Nagar zone, Rupa Rai of Dharampeth zone, Bhagwan Mendhe of Hanuman Nagar zone, Pramod Chikhale of Dhantoli zone, Rekha Sakore of Nehru Nagar zone, Sumedha Deshpande of Gandhibagh zone, Sanjay Chawre of Satranipura zone and Deepak Wadibhasme of Lakadganj zone.
 
