NEW DELHI: Taxis with All India Tourist Permit (AITP) will not be allowed to ferry passengers within Delhi once the City   Scheme 2017 comes into force. Delhi government is giving a   to the   scheme, which is expected to be completed soon.

 Sources in the government said that the ban on taxis with AITP to ferry passengers within city limits would be enforced strictly once the new   in place. 
 
 “These taxis can only be used for outstation trips and are not allowed point-to-point pick up and drop within city limits,” an official said.
 
 The government is also deliberating on banning cab sharing. “Vehicles running on contract carriage permits are not allowed to pick up and drop passengers at multiple points, so cab sharing can’t be allowed. However, as it is a beneficial service to commuters, we are mulling on a balancing act,” the official said.
 
 Allowing cab sharing, however, would require amending Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, which currently has no provision to allow sharing of a ride in taxis operating on contract carriage permit.
 
 Under the new scheme, taxis would be divided into two segments — economy and deluxe — based on the length of the vehicle. Sources said that the government also plans to put a cap on the maximum fare that can be charged by cabs, apart from the number of cabs one operator can run.
 
 The City Taxi Scheme 2017 will be an amalgamation of all previous schemes, including the 2015 one. Sources said the draft scheme also draws heavily from the suggestions of an expert committee set up earlier by Union ministry of road transport and highways.
 
 “There is definitely going to be a cap on the number of taxis run by an operator. Other features include mandatory installation of GPS and panic buttons in taxis. We have also formulated penalties for violations of norms,” the official said.
 
 The 2015 scheme mainly aimed at regulation of radio cabs. “However, since then there has been a proliferation of cab services in the city and currently there are no proper regulatory measures for them,” the official added.
 
 
