SOONDH(BANGA): Banga MLA Tarlochan Soondh has become the first leader to sound the bugle of rebellion in the Congress in Punjab’s Doaba region, where the party’s prospects are considered better. Soondh announced to contest as an independent candidate at an event organized at Soondh village to mark the death anniversary of his father, Chaudhary Jagat Ram, on Wednesday. 

 Soondh made the announcement while accusing the party candidate from the seat, Satnam Singh Kainth, of being “opportunistic” and “corrupt”. That trouble can spread to other assembly seats in the region was visible, as the even was attended by five-time Congress MLA from Ludhiana (North)  , former MLA and Bholath candidate Gurbinder Singh Atwal, and former MLA Malkiat Singh Dakha. The trio also appealed to the party to be careful in allotting tickets.
 
 Atwal said he came to persuade Soondh to wait for a few days, but the announcement had already been made by the time he reached the function. Addressing his supporters, who had turned up in good numbers, Soondh said it was a “bluff” with the Congress and the constituency that somebody who had “damaged” the roots of the party was given the ticket from Banga. He left little scope for reconciliation with the party nominee, saying that Kainth was first with the BSP, then formed his own party and allied with the SAD, and then joined the Congress. 
 
 He said   president Captain Amarinder Singh was backing his candidature and also took a stand for him, but “some forces” managed to get the ticket denied to him, pointing to Congress MLA  , who belongs to the Mazhabi Sikh community.
 
 “Denying the ticket to me would damage the party’s propects at other seats in Doaba region, which is very crucial for Captain to form the government in Punjab,” he said. “The ticket to Kainth was given even though the party had decided at the outset that no two-time loser or someone who lost an election by a margin of over 10,000 votes, would be given a ticket; people don’t remember which election Kainth won the last time, and from which party, because he switched loyalties several times,” he said.
 
 He said he was now against a particular senior leader of Congress and the party candidate. While he did not name the leader, sources close to him revealed that there was a feeling among his supporters that Congress campaign committee head Ambika Soni, who lost the parliamentary election from Anandpur Sahib and trailed from Banga also, had turned against Soondh.
 
 He said he had consulted his supporters, especially the young, in the last few days and he was told by them to contest as an independent. On this, his supporters raised their arms and cheered with slogans of “zindabad”. He also asked his supporters to give their nod if he should contest as an independent. He said if he would win the election, he would again ask his supporters about which party to extend support to.
 
 2004 rebellion: Same venue, same occasion
 
 The venue where Banga MLA Tarlochan Soondh announced to contest as an independent on Wednesday, was the launchpad of another dissent in the party when present state chief Capt Amarinder Singh was CM in 2004. Even the occasion, the death anniversary of Soondh’s father, was the same when party heavyweight Rajinder Kaur Bhattal demanded Amarinder’s removal as the CM. At that time, rebel MLAs of the party had attended the death anniversary function of Sondh’s father, Chaudhary Jagat Ram, and then left for Delhi to meet the party high command. However, this time Tarlochan Soondh was batting for Amarinder from the same stage and training guns at a Delhi -based party leader without taking any names. 
 
