VISAKHAPATNAM: The security forces involved in anti-naxal operations in the   district would get technical and sophisticated arms support from Israel very soon. The security forces are set to launch a series of major assaults on Maoists, top sources said.

 AP would be the first state affected by the naxals to utilise the services of a foreign nation to tackle the naxal menace. Apart from this, the state police department had already got the strength in the form of former DG of   and also PM’s security chief Kode Durga Prasad, who was appointed as advisor to state home department.   had served as Greyhounds chief and also initiated many actions against naxals in Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and   in the capacity of  . 
 
 A two-member Israeli team along with DGP N Sambasiva Rao, higher officials of intelligence, state intelligence bureau (SIB), anti naxal special force Greyhounds and CRPF conducted an aerial survey of Visakha agency on Monday. The aerial survey was conducted to give a picture of the difficult terrain of the Andhra-Odisha border, especially Visakha agency, to the Israel experts.
 
 According to sources, the expert team had a comprehensive picture over the terrain and also the problems facing by the security forces after the survey. “They had well experience over the issues involved in anti- extremist operations as they have been facing on the borders of Israel-Gaza borders. They would give suggestions about what are the changes to be adopted while combing and facing the ambush planted by the naxals. We are expecting a report of suggestions and advice from the expert team,” one of the senior officer involved in the anti-naxal operations told TOI.
 
 The expert team would focus more on the surveillance and the safety aspects of the combing security personnel. “We are facing the enemy in the form of difficult terrain and not the naxals. The terrain has been giving ample space for the reds to their advantage. Now, the expert team is expected to give suggestion about how to protect ourselves from the ambush, booby traps or other tactics of the naxals, who have been enjoying the advantage of the terrain in AOB,” a senior IPS officer said.
 
 According to sources, the expert team was brought following the initiative of the chief minister of the state. A technical team would visit Israel soon to learn about the technical aspects in dealing with the naxals and also about the modern weapons usage. The state would get sophisticated weapons from Israel soon. A trial would also be conducted in the next four months about how to use the modern weapons of Israel and precautionary methods suggested by the experts, sources said.
 
 The state government would also reportedly asked the police department to focus on the proposed outposts at various places in   stronghold areas. “At least two outposts’ construction will also be started in couple of months. Once the outposts were constructed then the cops will get more inputs about the safety and security, besides assault from the experts’ team,” sources said. 
 
