KOTTAYAM: “Informalisation of labour has seriously affected the social conditions of women in India” said former vice chancellor,   and member,   B Ekbal. He was speaking at a book releasing function of the alumni of the   (SIRP), Mahatma Gandhi University on Monday.

 He said that though the women workers in Anganwadis have multiple responsibilities in their domain of activities, the wages they get from their hard labour are unimaginably low. In places like Attappady, where Anganwadis are almost defunct, cases of infant deaths are still looming, Ekbal said.
 
 Speaking on the political economy of women’s work in India and its relationship to the Indian state, M S Sreerekha, faculty at the Global Studies Programme, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, US pointed out that the withdrawal of state support under globalization, coinciding with the demand for expansion of state welfare schemes, is progressively weakening the social-service sector in the country.
 
 More and more women, particularly from the lower social strata, are employed in new social-welfare schemes where the form of work is defined as voluntary social service. She said that the process of the expansion of scheme-based social welfare projects in contemporary India is a symbol of further marginalization and exploitation of its women workers.
 
 It shows how the entry of more women workers into state social welfare projects also coincides with and contributes to further intrusion of private capital into the local economy with the direct support of state-sponsored social welfare schemes. We can thus see how the Indian state shapes itself into the role of a non-state actor through its own performance or lack of it, she said.
 
 Rekha Raj, Women’s Division manager, Amnesty International, A K Ramakrishnan, Professor, Jawaharlal Nehru University also spoke on the occasion.
 M S Sreerekha’s “State without Honours: Women Workers in India’s Anganwadis” was released by Ekbal. Rekha Raj’s “Dalit Sthree: Idapedalukal” was released by Ramakrishnan.
 
 K M Seethi welcomed and A M Thomas chaired the session.
 
