MUMBAI: From this academic year, all schools in the state will have to give students who   cla-ss IX a second chance by holding a   in July. In addition, schools will have to conduct two months of an ‘accelerated learning’ programme for those who had failed class IX exam in April 2016 or had scored less than 45% in October 2016 semester exams. This was among the KRAs the state had issued in September 2016.

 According to a government resolution issued by the  , over 1.5 lakh students failed class IX in the state in April 2016—most of them had failed in languages, mathematics and science. 
 
 “There are three possibilities for those who fail class IX—repeat class in the same school, appear for SSC exams as a private candidate or drop out. We want to arrest this dropout rate by giving them an extra chance,” said Nandkumar, principal secretary, school education department.
 
 While teachers welcomed the move, they fear that a few schools could make wrong use of the programme. “Some schools may not be willing to do the additional work and pass students even if they are not eligible. As a result, students might not be able to cope in class X, creating a bigger problem,” said Uday Nare, teacher, Hansraj Morarji Public School.
 
 Principals pointed out that if schools ensure that the   is successful, there might not be a need for re-exam. “If students are trained well during the two months prior to April exams, most of th-em will pass. If a student still fails, then he will get another chance as there will be a re-exam, even if it is extra work for the school,” said Prashant Redij, member of the Mumbai principals’ association. 
 
 The state has directed schools of all boards to submit details of students, along with reasons of why they have been failed, by January 31. 
 
 Schools have been asked to use technology to enhance the accelerated training programme such as instal TV screens and use tablets and online content. 
 
 From the 2018-19 academic year, schools will have to provide data on students failed in class IX by the first week of May.
 
 
