CHANDIGARH: With more than 13 people losing their lives in road accidents every day in  , the state government will be setting up a road safety authority to study the causes of what makes Punjab’s roads susceptible to mishaps. 

 In its first meeting on March 19, the new state cabinet of ministers gave its go-ahead to the formation of the authority. However, no further details about the authority, like who it will comprise and by when it will be set up, have been finalised. According to   data, 4,893 people lost their lives in road accidents across Punjab in 2015. A 4.9% growth from 2014, when 4,621 were killed in such mishaps. The figure was 4,127 for 2013. 
 
 Of the 65% road fatalities in Punjab, 4.9% are on core road network of Punjab — 739km of national highways and 1,503km of state highways. A majority of traffic on the core road network comprises two wheelers (40%) and cars (30%). Punjab's traffic adviser   said with the formation of the authority, there should be a focus on promoting public transport among people. “There is need to take a relook at urban, rural and inter-city traffic connectivity,” he said. 
 
 If it goes ahead with the plan, Punjab will become the first state in the region to have such a body. Though, of the three states in the region, Haryana had the highest number of road accident fatalities in 2015, it is yet to form such a road safety authority. The number of road accident deaths in Haryana, shows NCRB data, in 2015 was 5,045 (nearly 14 deaths per day), while those in   were just 1,096 (nearly 3 per day). 
 
 Tractors are among the most vulnerable to accidents. Though they comprise just 9% of the state’s total vehicle population, there are responsible for 20% road fatalities, shows data. According to Asija, it need special focus from the proposed road safety authority. 
 
 Meanwhile, the Punjab Road Safety Policy finalised by the transport department in 2014 has tried to analyse some key trends in road accidents in the state. Following this, the state introduced a road safety management system (RSMS) that aims to make accident-related information accessible to traffic police, road engineering departments, motor vehicles departments, insurance companies and non-government agencies involved in road safety.
 
 Earlier, under the Punjab State Road Sector Project, the transport department had identified over 400 accident black spots on its different core network of highways. Some of them have been dealt with, while others continue to cause fatal accidents.
 
 FOR SAFER ROADS
 
 Agenda for improving road-safety enforcement
 
 Equal focus on violations like speeding, drink and drive, seat belt and not using helmets on two-wheelers
 
 Promoting development and implementation of deterrence-based traffic-safety enforcement programmes, combined with intensive social marketing programmes, targetting high-risk safety behaviours at state and district levels
 
 Setting up dedicated highway-safety patrol capacity on strategic high-risk roads
 
