Thane:   is likely to be appointed as the leader of the 34-member strong   in the newly-elected 131-member municipal general body, it is learnt.

 The NCP, which is the second largest party in the  , is still to firm up its decision on the selection of the candidate for the crucial post of leader of the opposition in the civic body, which is scheduled to hold its first meeting in the first week of March.
 
 The  , who is chosen by a voting process of the newly-elected corporators, is a key position in the civic corridors who can put the ruling party and the administration on the mat on policy issues and financial planning.
 
 It is learnt that another favourite for this post is senior corporator   who is said to have an understanding of the town planning laws, development control rules and is politically savvy.
 
 The names of corporators Shanu Pathan from Mumbra and Pramila Keni from Kalwa are also in circulation for the post.
 
 NCP leader Jitendra Awhad is believed to hold the key for nominating the party candidate as the leader of the opposition. 
 
 The factions within the party seem to have different opinions over whom to elevate to the post of leader of opposition. While there are whispers of staunch supporter of Ganesh Naik, Pramila Keni getting an opportunity as she has had a stellar victory with a decent margin, it is unlikely the Awhad camp that has had a clean sweep at the polls this time despite defections, would accede to the demand.
 
 Meanwhile, the BJP has appointed Milind Patankar as the party leader in the house. The corporator from ward 11 is known for his experience and vast knowledge about town planning.
 
 The Shiv Sena is however likely to disclose the mayoral candidate on Thursday. Heavyweights like Jaishri Phatak, Parisha Sarnaik, Nandini Vichare are doing the rounds along with grass root workers inlcuding Minakshi Shinde and Ekta Bhoir.
 
 The mayor would be selected on March 6 as the tenure of the existing body ends on March 5, informed a senior municipal official.
 
