Visakhapatnam: Cost of superfine rice is the highest in Visakhapatnam as compared to other places in the state. 

 As on May 14, grade-1 variety of superfine rice cost Rs 53 per kilo in Vizag as against the state’s average of Rs 46.45 per kg, according to Directorate of Economics and Statistics under the state ministry of civil supplies. 
 
 “Prices are higher at the supermarkets. At the Rythu Bazar, we sell the rice below Rs 50,” said Potnuri Venkateswara Rao, a rice trader at MVP Rythu Bazar.
 
 “I had purchased a 25-kg rice bag for Rs 900 in March, but now it costs Rs 1,000 per bag. There should be a control over the price rise,” K Radhika, a housewife at Sivajipalem, said.
 
 K Varahalu, estate officer of MVP Rythu Bazaar told TOI, the rise in prices is due to a spike in demand due to increase in urban population. 
 
 Visakhapatnam civil supplies officer Ch Ananda Kumar said, “Rice millers usually less at a cheaper rate. But they do not have direct counters or rice mills in the city. Some of them have opened counters at Rythu Bazaars. The prices are higher in the city as compared with Visakhapatnam rural region.” 
 
 Jangareddy Gudem in West Godavari reported the lowest price of superfine rice in the state. The Godavari districts are known as the rice bowl of the state. A kilo of superfine rice is priced at Rs 40 per kg in the division.
 
 The government considers six items as essential commodities including rice, red gram, groundnut oil, tamarind, red chillies and onions. Apart from rice, price of groundnut oil is also reported to be the highest in Visakhapatnam at Rs 130 per litre as against the state average price of Rs 116.78 per litre. The price of onions was highest in Srikakulam. Grade-1 onions are priced at Rs 15 per kg in Srikakulam against the state average of Rs 13.80. 
 
 G Prasad, estate officer at Kancharapalem Rythu Bazaar in GVMC, said, “Supply of onions are at par with the demand, resulting in low prices.” 
 
 RN Madhavi, secretary of All India Democratic Women Association for Greater Visakha City Committee, said, “High prices of essential commodities are affecting the poor people who are not able to access healthy and hygienic food. The government should take measures to regulate prices of essential commodities for safeguarding the interests of a large section of the society.”
 
 POCKET PINCH
 
 The government considers six items as essential commodities including rice, red gram, groundnut oil, tamarind, red chillies and onions 
 
 Gap between demand and supply is reason for rise in prices 
 
 Huge demand in urban areas due to high population
 
 Rices millers missing in the city; Prices sold at miller counters are lesser than other places
 
 Commodity
 
 Highest
 
 Lowest
 
 AP’s average price
 
 Superfine rice
 
 Rs 53 in Vizag
 
 Rs 40 in Jangareddy Gudem
 
 Rs 46.45
 
 Groundnut oil
 
 Rs 130 in Vizag
 
 Rs 100 in Nujiveedu
 
 Rs 116.78
 
 Tamarind without seed
 
 Rs 140 in Vijayawada
 
 Rs 80 in Vizag
 
 Rs 87.96
 
 Onions
 
 Rs 15 in Srikakulam
 
 Rs 12 in Jangareddy Gudem
 
 Rs 13.80
 
 Red gram
 
 Rs 100 in Paderu
 
 Rs 70 in Gurajala
 
 Rs 80.20
 
 Red chillies
 
 Rs 110 in Paderu
 
 Rs 70 in Markapur
 
 Rs 90.06
 
 
