PUNE: Smog hanging over the city in winter and summer, stinking and stagnant rivers, ugly hoardings, unauthorized flex boards and garbage burning leave a pollution trail that needs urgent correction. 

 All round efforts from corporators and citizens who care about the city may still undo all that has gone wrong on the green city, clean city front. 
 
 Vandana Chavan, NCP’s Rajya Sabha MP and the president of its city unit, has taken up environment issues within her party forum and organized training camps for party workers to apprise them about climate change. 
 
 “We have to address environmental issues in a political campaign. We have been doing it for long and hope that setting aside political differences, all parties show concern and offer a plan to protect the environment,” she said.
 
 On the other end of the spectrum,   of Parisar, said citizens’ activism is vibrant in Pune and activists can fuel a people’s movement to erase pollution. “Every citizen must participate in the movement to care for our rivers, trees, hills and our future generation,” he said. 
 
 Over the years, air pollution in Pune has become a serious problem. The respiratory suspended particulate matter (PM 10) in the air is more than the standard national level and causes respiratory ailments. The rivers and nullahs are sewage carriers while a depleting green cover and rising concrete jungle choke the green spaces.
 
 It does not end here. The city releases around 46,61,064.20 tCO2e emissions, mainly contributed by vehicles, power and residential sectors, a huge threat to stabilizing climate change. The draft report from TERI’s study on the carbon inventory of Pune, the maximum emission of CO2 is from the residential (31.6%) due to consumption of electricity and petrol, followed by electricity and the transport sector. These key areas should reduce the CO2 emission.
 
 But none of these concerns agitated elected representatives in the last five years. In September 2016, the general body of   (PMC) met to discuss the annual environment status report.
 
 The House which generally witness full quorum when land proposals come for discussion was nearly empty with 20 of the 152 elected members participating in the discussion. Every year, the approval of the environment status report has become a mere formality as elected representatives are least interested in the exercise and the civic administration is more than happy about the apathy shown by the corporators since the least action is required.
 
 The sanitation report indicates that water pollution is the main source of rising typhoid, gastroenteritis, diarrhoea, dysentery and jaundice cases. Water logging after heavy rain has also seen an increase in leptospirosis cases. Of late, the number of people suffering from malaria, chikungunya and dengue has gone up.
 
 According to the development plan, the vegetation pattern of the city is conducive for almost all types of tropical species, indigenous and exotic. The city has a tree cover distributed throughout the urbanscape, but it is vanishing. Approximately, 380 species of trees are spotted in the city and about 23.33 lakh trees stand on 170 sq km area. 
 
 Katraj and Sinhagad area have the maximum forest cover. “Over the years, there has been a change in the native fauna because of urbanization and introduction of exotic species. Development has resulted in the habitat loss and posed a threat to the fauna,” PMC’s revised city development plan said. 
 
 Some politicians and citizens have tried to protect the city’s natural assets. When the PMC decided to cut down 96 trees on  , citizens formed a human chain to protest against the move. Pressure from citizens forced the civic body to amend its plan. 
 
 Individuals like Rajesh Niwal on Sinhagad Road plant and look after trees. Niwal has planted saplings on Sinhagad Road after he felt the green cover was depleting. Many individuals and groups that regularly go for a walk on Parvati and other tekdis have planted and watered trees for years and the movement grown. 
 
 Citizens started Pune Tree Watch blog which connects citizens and civic officials. Local mohalla committees have draw PMC’s attention to debris dumping and garbage burning. 
 
 There is affirmative response to citizens’ initiative from the civic administration and politicians like Chavan. 
 
 Municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar set up a five-member core committee which will draw up a citywide plan to improve the tree cover, beginning with the river fronts, hills and amenity spaces. The team will also devise awareness and knowledge-sharing campaigns to involve citizens in conserving the environment. Sub-committees will also be formed in every area to take the message to every household. 
 
 
