KOLKATA: Arjuna awardee shooter  , who stood fourth in the  , has said that cricketer Virender Sehwag and Olympic medal-winning wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt shouldn’t have hit out at   Kaur. 

 The 20-year-old Delhi University student had been trolled for a video about her dad, a Kargil martyr, and how she believed that it was not Pakistan but “war” that had killed her father.
 
 Karmakar has watched Gurmehar’s video. “Everyone has the right to express his or her opinion. Politicizing this whole incident is the worst thing that could have happened,” he said.
 
 ‘Pink’ director Aniruddha Roy Chowdhury, in whose movie Pakistani singer Quratulain Balouch sang the ‘Kaari Kaari’ number, also spoke in support of freedom of expression. “War needs to be stopped. That’s the ideal situation. What this young girl has said is extremely meaningful,” he said.
 
 Over the years, Karmakar has often interacted with athletes from Pakistan. “They are a very friendly team. We have shared food, too. If we have to live with fear, we will not be able to speak the truth because we might get branded anti-national,” Karmakar said.
 
 Music director Debajyoti Mishra, who scored the music for Pakistani film ‘Ramchand Pakistani’, recounted how during Partition, his father had taught him that war-mongers don’t have a nationality or a religion. “A country may be mobilized to fight a war in the name of religion or justice. But the final decision to strike is always taken by four or five people,” Mishra said.
 
 Kaur, maintained Mishra, had expressed a standpoint that propagates the right philosophy about patriotism. “Celebrities like Sehwag have to be more responsible with their public comments. Sehwag’s comment will only give more power to trolls,” Mishra said.
 
 Karmakar added that even if one chose to disagree with Kaur, she shouldn’t be trolled. The shooter said: “Sehwag has a quirky sense of humour and uses sarcasm in his tweets. But being an experienced athlete, he should have exercised more restraint in this comment.”
 
 Theatre personality and TMC MLA Bratya Basu said: “Whoever is targeting Kaur is only making a political comment. Calling her an anti-national for airing her independent views is subscribing to the ideology that RSS is trying to propagate.”
 
 However, many have also criticized poet-lyricist Javed Akhtar’s jibe at Dutt and Mahavir Phogat (coach and father of wrestlers Geeta and Babita) while slamming Kaur’s trolls. Akhtar had tweeted: “If a hardly literate player or a wrestler troll a pacifist daughter of a martyr its understandable but whats wrong with some educated folks.” 
 
 Sahitya Akademi winner Subodh Sarkar said: “I fully support Gurmehar and her views about war and peace. But Javed’s tweet was in bad taste. You can’t take a dig at someone for being hardly literate. A celebrated song writer ought to have been more careful with his language.”
 
 
