NEW DELHI:   finally apprehended the man behind the numerous extortion threats sent to several people in the city. The accused, Pranay Tiwari (27), is a resident of Rewa district in Madhya Pradesh.

 Tiwari had been sending the threat messages under a pseudo name of one Rizwan Khan.
 
 “Tiwari was   from the jungles of Rewa District by a team of Delhi Police’s crime branch on Monday afternoon. A case under Section 387 (putting person in fear in order to commit extortion) of the IPC was registered against him,” deputy commissioner of police (crime) Rajesh Deo told TOI.
 
 Police sources said that Tiwari had moved to Delhi in 2012 and worked as a supervisor at an eatery in a south Delhi mall. He was simultaneously pursuing his under-graduate studies through correspondence.
 
 The eatery was often frequented by business families and offered a feedback form to its customers where personal details like phone numbers and important dates such as birthdays and anniversaries were meant to be shared for special offers.
 
 Tiwari used the information from these feedback forms to target his victims. He started sending threat messages, introducing himself as Rizwan Khan. He claimed that he was a member of a terror group based in Mumbai. To legitimize his threat, Tiwari would mention the birthdays or anniversaries of the victim to make them panic.
 
 The accused would then call up the victim and threaten them on phone, telling them that his men are monitoring their movement and would kill the family members if the police was informed. An hotelier’s wife from Vasant Kunj, a businessman from Greater Kailash and a banker from Dwarka were targeted by Tiwari, who filed individual police complaints.
 
 A team from the inter-state cell of the crime branch started investigating the case and zeroed in on Rewa district in Madhya Pradesh after tracking the phone number of the accused. The team set up its base there and started narrowing down on the exact location of the accused. On Sunday night, the accused was contacted and informed that one of the complainants was ready to pay him the extortion money.
 
 The money was then taken in a parcel to a place in the dense forest nearby. The team then waited for Tiwari, who came to collect the ransom next morning. He was apprehended as soon as he came to the spot. With his arrest, Delhi Police has claimed to have worked out four reported cases in Delhi and are also working with teams from Mumbai, Haryana and   who were also after Tiwari.
 
 
