NEW DELHI: The long-running feud between the   and the government over procedures for appointments in the higher judiciary could end with Chief Justice of India   saying on Monday that the   (MoP) would be finalised by the month-end.

 Hinting at a consensus over the contentious MoP that was at the centre of a tug of war between the judiciary and the Centre over issues like a national security clause and vetting of candidates by a screening committee, the CJI said, “We will be finalising the MoP quickly, may be within this month.”
 
 Justice Khehar’s remarks came while he was hearing a petition seeking the court’s direction to change the selection process for   in higher courts.
 
  While the   struck down the national judicial appointments commission (NJAC), the previous CJI, T S Thakur, was reluctant to concede the Centre’s contentions on the MoP.
 
 The MoP, as proposed by the Centre, aims to increase the scrutiny of judicial selections that will remain the preserve of the collegium. Differences over the MoP have affected judicial appointments, with the Centre returning reccomendations and the judiciary blaming the government for the heavy backlog of cases in the SC and high courts.
 
 The petitioner Satya Veer Sharma, a practising advocate from Haryana, contended that there was no transparency in the appointment of judges, and that people should be invited to apply for judgeship. He said only lawyers practising in the SC and HCs were being considered for judgeship, and advocates of lower courts, who constitute 95% of all lawyers, are kept outside consideration.
 
 Justice Khehar, who was sitting with Justice Ramana, refused to entertain his plea and said his grievances would be taken care of in the new MoP.
 
 The MoP has been hanging fire since December 16, 2015, when the apex court directed the framing of new procedures to bring transparency and accountability in appointment of judges.
 
 The court had passed the order after quashing the NJAC Act and reviving the collegium system. It was a bench headed by Justice Khehar, that had directed the framing of a new MoP, and given a slew of recommendations to be incorporated.
 
 It had said the MoP should indicate the eligibility criteria, such as the minimum age, for the guidance of the collegium, after inviting and taking into consideration the views of the respective state governments and the Centre from time to time.
 
 The bench had said that the eligibility criteria and procedure for appointment ought to be made available on the website, and that the MoP should provide for a procedure for minuting the discussions, including recording dissenting opinion in the collegium.
 
 It had also said the MoP may provide for the establishment of a secretariat for each HC and the SC, and prescribe its functions, duties and responsibilities for better management of judicial appointments.
 
 The bench had also recommended that the MoP should provide for an appropriate mechanism and procedure for dealing with complaints against anyone who being considered for appointment as a judge.
 
