Nagpur:   Industries Limited (JNIL), the Nagpur company whose name featured in the second list of defaulters issued by RBI, can hope for some relief now as it has secured an in-principle approval for a corporate   (CDR) plan. The RBI, last month, had called for proceedings under the insolvency and bankruptcy code by lenders of the companies mentioned in the list.

 JNIL, which was once among the biggest employers of the city, is now sitting on over Rs4,000 crore bad debt. A week ago, it secured an in-principle approval for a corporate debt restructuring (CDR) plan from the consortium of lenders led by PNB. PSU behemoth SBI is also among the lenders in the group.
 
 A senior official in the company said, so far only an in-principle approval has been obtained from the lenders, due to which further details of the deal cannot be divulged. However, the source confirmed that there will be no fresh lending under the debt revamp plant. The official said the company is ready to infuse fresh capital if needed as per the final plan submitted by the lenders. The announcement on the in-principle approval by lenders was also made at the stock exchanges. 
 
 “The company will be saved from insolvency and bankruptcy proceedings after the revamp plan is approved. It may take another couple of months or so for the final approval,” said the source. 
 
 “The company source said it had fallen into bad times due to a slump in the steel prices, and due to issues related to the coal block allocations made during the UPA regime. The overall market conditions had hampered the profitability,” he said.
 
 “Things are appearing to look up now with the steel prices seeing an upward correction. The prices need to further improve,” said the source.
 
 JNIL is headed by Basantlal Shaw. In 2013, Abhijeet Group was created after a partition in the family business. The latter is led by his son Manoj Jayaswal who is also embroiled in the coal allocation case. 
 
 The company reported a net loss of Rs98 crore for the quarter ending on June. Its interest outgo for the period stood at Rs140 crore.
 
 
