LUCKNOW: 'If we fail to avert one suicide because of   we need to revisit our strategy': this tweet on Wednesday morning by a senior officer in the   refers to the suicide by an   in Lucknow. The incident that came to light in the wee hours of Tuesday, has promoted   and   to review the process for counselling of HIV positive people.

 “The incident shook us and has underscored the need for re-evaluation of the counselling process,“ admitted Alok Kumar, director, UP State Aids Control Society and National Health Mission, UP. He has also called a meeting of officials in UPSACS next week. “This is the second incident in the past year where we realized counselling has not been enough,“ Kumar told TOI. He was referring to the April 2016 incident in Bareilly wherein a truck driver was allegedly killed by his wife and in-laws when they came to know about his HIV status.
 
 Experts associated with National Aids Control Programme second that. “The process will have to recognize that there is a psychological aspect to the condition. Also, the affected individual is a part of the system which needs to understand the nuances of the responsibility,“ said Prof AK Tripathi, head of clinical haematology department, KGMU, supervising the university's Anti Retro Viral Therapy Center. There are over 400 ART centres which run Integrated Counselling and Testing Centers. Talking about the psychological dimension, founder UP Welfare for Persons Living with HIVAIDS society and HIV issues trainer, Naresh Yadav said, “I often ask people in workshops as to which part of body is first attacked by HIV... no one says `mind or brain'. The counselling process also misses on the account.“
 
 Offering a solution, project lead of PLHIV empowerment programme, Vimlesh Kumar, said, “It's time to expand the range of peer counselling (wherein a positive person breaks the news and supports the newly diagnosed person).“ Kumar believes that seeing someone like oneself leading a normal life may mitigate denial, depression and stigma.
 
