CHENNAI: A   helped police bust a   who went on a   in various parts of the city over the last two months. Police seized 55 sovereigns of gold jewellery from the duo who were identified as Saravanan, 23, of Erukkanchery, and Ghouse Basha alias Riaz, 23, of Pattalam.

 A special team headed by deputy commissioner, T Nagar, Saravanan, was formed after a series of chain snatchings were reported in the area. Police said Ghouse Basha was a small time racer, while Saravanan had been accused in a murder case and detained under the Goondas Act before coming out of prison recently.
 
 The duo had stolen a motorbike parked in front of a house at Chinmaya Nagar on Thursday and targeted two women walking on the street at Virugambakkam and Vadapalani. The incidents were caught in CCTVs installed in both localities.
 
 As they sped away, police intercepted the bike near Virugambakkam suspecting the registration number to be that of a stolen vehicle. The duo tried to escape but were nabbed. The men later revealed their involvement in several chain-snatching incidents in T Nagar, Ashok Nagar, Kodambakkam, Teynampet, Mambalam, Vadapalani, Virugambakkam, and Valasaravakkam in the past two months.
 
 The duo were school dropouts who became friends when they met at a Tasmac bar. Saravanan and Basha used to visit a place in Vyasarpadi for smoking pot during weekends. Saravanan was impressed by the different bikes Basha came in. All of them were stolen bikes which Basha had modified for bike racing.
 
 Saravanan joined hands with Basha to steal bikes and the duo later proceeded to steal mobile phones. Not satisfied with their earnings from mobile phones, they decided to target more expensive items. “They switched over to chain-snatching after Saravanan watched ‘Metro’, a movie that features chain-snatching and shows how the offenders escape from being caught,” said an investigating officer. “It was also easy for them to dispose of the jewellery in parts of North Chennai,” he said.
 
 A case has been registered and further investigations are on to find out whether the duo was involved in any other cases.
 
 
