NAGPUR: In yet another case of   coming to light, a sub-adult male cub of resident tigress of Katlabodi in   and Kondhali ranges has travelled over 135km to reach   reserve forest adjoining Amravati city.

 This is the second recorded migration of a male tiger, fondly called Nawab, in two years. On April 8, 2015, TOI had reported dispersal of a young male that had also travelled 150km from Bor Tiger Reserve to Pohra-Malkhed, a 90 sqkm forest. However, whereabouts of that tiger are not known but Amravati forest officials are now upbeat about finding it out.
 
 It is surprising how Katlabodi, which is not even a reserve or a sanctuary and has farms on all sides, hosts a source tiger population. It needs to be conserved in a better way. Conservationists too have for long suspected that every year tigers are dispersing from Katlabodi to other areas, especially to Pohra-Malkhed. The recent extensive camera trapping has enabled detection of such dispersal incidents.
 
 Nawab (KKFR-4), which is 2.5 years old, must have reached Pohra-Malkhed through small fragmented forest patches and risked passing through agriculture fields, NH6, villages, industrial areas etc. 
 
 “This dispersing male was first sighted by Chirodi villagers in Malkhed forest in December. Later, pugmarks were seen regularly. It is a fragmented forest and needs serious management inputs,” says young naturalist Yadav Tarte.
 
 When Amravati deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) Hemant Kumar Meena learnt of tiger’s presenceit, he immediately installed camera traps and intensified monitoring. “The tiger is constantly being recorded in camera traps. We identified with WCT, which had jointly conducted Phase IV estimation with the forest department in 2015. The report identified the tiger as offspring of Katlabodi tigress. We will also find out where the earlier tiger from Bor migrated,” Meena told TOI.
 
 DFO & wildlife spokesperson GK Vashishtha said, “In 2014-15, camera trap estimation showed presence of four adults and 10 cubs in the entire Bor landscape including Katlabodi. The dispersed male is one among them.” 
 
 “Nawab is from the second litter of Katlabodi tigress. It was born in early 2015. The dispersal indicates why every patch of forest is important,” says district honorary wildlife warden Kundan Hate. “We too have sent a report to PCCF (wildlife) Shree Bhagwan that the tiger in Pohra-Malkhed is from Kalmeshwar,” Hate added.
 
 Wildlife biologist Aditya Joshi said Vidarbha had a vibrant functional corridor network and this needed to be strengthened for long-term genetic viability of tiger population in Central India. This also reflects value of robust camera trapping exercise outside protected areas. With the recent dispersal of individual tigers from Kalmeshwar and Bor, it is now crucial to safeguard Bor-Melghat connectivity from NH6 that passes through  , says Joshi.
 
 “A few leopards have died in road hits in the recent past on NH6. The department should identify this corridor patches and take corrective and necessary steps now,” said Udayan Patil of Srushti Paryavaran Mandal.
 
 
