MUMBAI: Every year, between 50,000 and 60,000 Indians pass out of the coveted undergraduate MBBS   course, only to hit a major roadblock. They now have to compete for   seats that are less than half the   seats.

 Senior doctors cite this mathematical inequality as one of the reasons why the Centre shouldn’t deny   certificates for doctors who wish to go to the US for higher studies and jobs. NORI stands for “no obligation to return to India”. Since 2011, India has stopped issuing NORI to doctors aged under 65 because of a severe shortage of medicos. The NORI issue was highlighted once again when the Centre recently refused the certificate to Karnataka-based Dr Sunil Noothi who incidentally doesn’t practise medicine but was pursuing post-doctoral research in the US till two years back. 
 
 “While brain drain is a problem, the government has to consider the fate of 42% of doctors who don’t get PG seats,” said leading cardiac surgeon Dr Ramakanta Panda of Asian Heart Institute. He pointed out that the ratio of MBBS:PG seats in many western countries is 5:4. “This means almost 80% of MBBS students have a chance to get a PG seat.” But the number of post-graduate seats in India is around half of the MBBS seats. He said the government should do more as doctors unable to pursue post-graduate studies here .
 
 Dr Sagar Mundada, who as president of MARD (Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors) moved the Bombay high court against the NORI development two years ago, said, “We serve two bonds for the government. Once, after we finish our MBBS degree and another after the post-graduate degree. It then seems unfair to be subjected to such restrictions.” He said that before filing the petition, MARD worked out that barely 4% to 6% of MBBS graduates go abroad every year. “So, how is this ban going to help increase the number of doctors back home?”
 
 India’s problem vis a vis medical human resources is not only a shortage of doctors (see box) but also their skewed distribution. More doctors are present in urban areas than in rural. Transplant surgeon Dr Sanjay Nagral, who is part of the editorial board of the Indian Journal of Medical Ethics, said, “People who go abroad are mainly specialists or super-specialists who would anyway not go to rural areas.”
 
 Dr Anant Bhan, a researcher in global health and health policy, said the government should focus on creating an environment where medical students and young doctors want to stay and work in country. “We need to encourage exchange programs, scientific and clinical training and fellowship opportunities abroad for young doctors and scientists.”
 
 A doctor said the government believes in the “overflow” theory. “Government officials believe if there is a surplus of doctors in the country, some may opt to go to rural areas. But the overflow theory may not always work. Infrastructure development needs to go hand-in-hand with such management plans.” A senior medical teacher said, “The best would be to decide on a case-to-case basis.”
 
 
