AHMEDABAD: With goods and services tax (GST) to be implemented from July 1, hoteliers say that  , typically those with tariffs below Rs 2,000 per room per night, will be adversely affected if budget hotels are put in the higher tax bracket, say the 18% slab. Industry players want budget hotels to be put in the 5% GST slab.

 Hotels with tariffs below Rs 2,000 per room per night presently attract 13% tax in total, including service tax and luxury tax. For those below Rs, 1,000, service tax of 9% is not levied.
 
 “If budget hotels are put in slabs above the present tax rate, the tax liability of hotels will rise. Hoteliers will have no option but to pass on the burden to consumers and budget hotels will consequently get more expensive. Considering the huge size of this segment, this will significantly affect the market,” said  , the owner of a city-based budget hotel.
 
 Industry stakeholders estimate that budget hotels account for 80% of the hotel market in the state. Currently, service tax is applicable only on hotels whose tariffs are Rs 1,000 and above. These hotels will adversely affected by a higher tax liability, hoteliers said. Hoteliers indicate that tariffs for such rooms will rise by 10-15% to compensate for the higher tax after GST.
 
 Narendra Adwani, who owns an 18-room budget hotel in Vadodara, said, “Currently there is no service tax for rooms below Rs 1,000 per day but GST will cover such rooms too, leading to an increase in costs. We will have to recover it from customers.”
 
 The hospitality sector is currently saddled with multiple taxes including VAT, luxury tax and service tax under the indirect tax administration. While the industry welcomes a uniform tax regime, they expect budget hotels to be kept in the 5% slab.
 
 Sanat Reliya, vice president of   (SHARA), “A composite scheme of 5% GST will be beneficial for small budget hotels. In this scheme, we will not charge our guests and will not take any input credit either.”
 
 With inputs from Tushar Tere and Himanshu Bhatt
 
 
