BATHINDA: A case has been registered at Bathinda’s Civil Lines police station after gunshots were fired outside Congress candidate Manpreet Singh Badal’s election office in Janta Nagar around 4am on Tuesday.

 Manpreet, the estranged nephew of CM Parkash Singh Badal who left SAD in 2010 and joined the Congress in 2016, is contesting the assembly elections from Bathinda Urban. In his complaint to the  , Punjab chief electoral officer (CEO) and Bathinda returning officer, Manpreet’s election agent Rajan Garg has alleged that SAD had used goons to carry out the firing for intimidating Congress workers. 
 
 The case was registered after the returning officer forwarded the complaint to the police.
 
 The latest incident has come two weeks after Manpreet’s wife Veenu had met with an accident on January 17 with a car that had a sticker of SAD on it. She is still under treatment for the multiple injuries and fracture suffered in the accident. When contacted, Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) Swapan Sharma said two empty cartridges had been recovered from outside the Congress election office and a case under Section 336 (endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC had been registered against unknown persons.
 
 In his complaint, Garg has requested the authorities to deploy more central forces in Bathinda and also sought action against police officials who had not been able to make locals deposit their firearms. “We have told the authorities that all 202 polling booths in the constituency should be declared sensitive and hypersensitive, and adequate security should be provided to revive people’s faith,” he said.
 
 No one was present in the office at the time of the firing incident. “The persons sent by Akali Dal had fired at my office with an aim to terrorise Congress workers. We demand strict action against those responsible for it. We also want that all the weapons be deposited. Central security forces should ensure free and fair polls,” said Manpreet.
 
 When asked about firearms not being deposited with the authorities, the SSP said that there were 25,588 licenced weapons in Bathinda district. “Only 630 weapons possessed by jewellers, banks and security personnel have not been deposited. They had obtained permission to keep the firearms for the safety of their valuables,” he said.
 
