LUCKNOW: For 6-year-old Irfan, who has recently started learning Urdu, it was the first visit to a  . He picked a book in   on teachings of Islam. Irfan’s choice was unlike that of other children of his age who were more inclined towards drawing books and stationary at the ongoing Lucknow Book Fair.

 Stalls selling books on religion and theology are witnessing a high turnout, with readers from all age groups buying them at the 15th edition of the fair at Moti Mahal Lawns.
 
 “There are nine stalls on spirituality and spiritual leaders. Some are by Hindu organizations, two from the Muslim community and one on Christianity,” said convener Manoj Chandel.
 
 There are also books from Happy Science, a religious organization from Japan with more than 10 million followers. The organization spreads teachings to solve all problems with love.
 
 Besides Vedic texts and books on Indian spirituality, there are interpretations and commentaries on the Gita and Upanishads. Biographies of noted spiritual leaders such as Ramakrishna Paramahamsa, Swami Vivekananda, Osho and Sree Narayana Guru are also popular. 
 
 There is also a stall from the   community which preaches world peace and looks at women rights in Islam. “We believe in the philosophy of love for all, hatred for none. Our books are based on promoting world peace and ending religious wars. They condemn bloodshed and reinstitute morality, justice and peace,” said Shaharool Saifi, a member of Ahmadiyya Muslim community.
 
 Delhi-based Wilayat Foundation had various books on Shia literature in Urdu as well as English and Hindi. Aradhya Nigam, a teacher bought 15 such books. “It’s a wonderful collection for insight into Shia Islam. I had been looking for something like this for long,” said Nigam.
 
 Likewise, Prashantadvait Foundation of Noida had 19 titles on understanding and dealing with human emotions.
 
 “Fiction may be an all-time favourite among the youth but we have received an overwhelming response from youngsters,” said Akarsh Dubey of Avatar Meher Baba Centre.
 
