PATNA: RJD boss Lalu Prasad and BJP senior functionary Sushil Kumar Modi on Sunday once again taunted each other over the elevation of Yogi Adityanath as UP chief minister.

 At a time when large number of politicians in Bihar had set their eyes on TV sets to watch political developments in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh especially the high-profile swearing-in ceremony of Yogi Adityanath in Lucknow, Lalu and Sushil Modi took to their official twitter handles to take swipes at each other.
 
 Lalu suggested Modi to get his ears pierced, head tonsured and robes changed like Yogi Adityanath, so that he can get a chance of being elevated to the post of CM. RJD boss also said the BJP people didn’t even invite Sushil Modi to the swearing-in ceremony of Yogi.
 
 "Tum bhi kaan chhidva lo, sir chhilva lo, vesh badal lo. Shayad tumhara kuch bhala ho jaye. Zada dukhi mat hona, ye log tumhe shapath graham mei nahi bulaya" Lalu tweeted in Hindi (You too pierce ears, tonsure your head and change attire for a turn of fortune. Don't be sad for not being invited to the swearing-in). He was responding to a previous tweet of Sushil Modi in which the BJP senior said that the RJD chief was so much in deep mourning because of Yogi becoming the chief minister that he can’t even decide on the choice of abuses. 
  
 "@laluprasadrjd Yogi ke banne se itne sadme mei hai ki kya gaali de samajh nahi aa raha hai," Sushil Modi had earlier tweeted to Lalu. 
 
 Sushil Modi, former deputy chief minister of Bihar, later posted a separate tweet and tried to clarify that he was actually present at the high-profile swearing-in ceremony in Lucknow. Modi tweeted, “Sitting in Pandal to be witness to oath ceremony of Yogi Adityanath as CM”. Soon after, Modi tweeted some of his pictures sitting in a Pandal with former Bihar BJP president Mangal Pandey.
 
 In another tweet, Sushil Modi also mocked Lalu’s son and Bihar deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav by saying, “Lalu’s non-matric son is terming ‘Science graduate Yogi Ji’ as ineligible.” 
 
 This is not the first time Sushil Modi has took potshots at Lalu Prasad and his son.
 
 Earlier on March 11 just after the BJP's thumping win in UP, Sushil Modi sent a tweet to Lalu Prasad, who was rooting for the Congress-SP alliance, asking him about his well­being, but trying to put salt on the RJD chief’s wound after the poll setback.
 
 But Lalu, who is known for his sense of humour, was quick with a retort. “I'm fine. Not letting you enter Uttar Pradesh has worked to the BJP’s benefit," Lalu tweeted back.
 
