NEW DELHI:   actor  , about three months back, 
  of central paramilitary forces who get killed in the line of duty in Naxal affected areas, Jammu and Kashmir and other parts of the country. He discussed the idea with Union home ministry officials, who then initiated the plan with a team of expert.

 On Sunday, while celebrating CRPF Valour Day, a 
  , where people can donate up to Rs 15 lakh to family of a martyred jawan or officer of CAPFs, was launched at Vigyan Bhawan by home minister Rajnath Singh in the presence of Akshay Kumar.
 
 Addressing thousands of jawans and top brass of all central paramilitary forces (CRPF, CISF, BSF, ITBP, SSB and others), Akshay Kumar, who also 
  killed in a Naxal ambush in Sukma, said, “today, I am here with you not as an actor, but as a son of an Army officer”.
 
 Kumar said that some youths of the country get distracted and choose the path of terrorism but they don’t realise that they have very few (terrorist leaders’) supporters. “Our Jawans fight them with all their heart and do good work. We need the support of 1.25 billion people to do the good work,” the national award winning actor said.
 
 Earlier, Kumar and Rajnath Singh gave away medals to the brave Jawans/officers of CRPF, including Head Constable Baljit Singh, who had fought the Chinese troops in 1959 at Hot Springs, Ladakh.
 
 Home minister Rajnath Singh and home secretary Rajiv Mehrishi thanked Akshay Kumar for taking this initiative.
 
 “Akshay Kumar is always in action while doing social work. It would not be wrong if I call him today ‘Action Kumar’. He is a hero for so many people, but for him, Army and CAPF jawans are the real heroes,” said Singh, as the crowd burst into huge applause for the Bollywood actor.
 
 Singh said that government is trying to ensure that every family of a martyr gets at least Rs one crore in compensation. “Usually, the compensation amount when somebody was martyred while fighting for the nation varied from Rs 40 lakh to Rs 50 lakh. We want to make sure that they get Rs one crore. There was some gap of compensation in some states. But we have told states that we (central government) will fill that gap,” Singh said.
 
