Earlier in March, music composers   were expected to perform at Renaissance, the annual cultural festival of  , but the performance was cancelled a day before the fest. The reason cited by the artists was that the members of the students' union of the college were not able to meet all the requirements as agreed. Their contract included flight tickets, hotel booking and expenses on local travelling. A day after the duo’s performance was cancelled at KMC, Punjabi actor-singer   also left his performance at Confluence, the annual cultural festival of Hans Raj College, midway due to a cylinder leak. 

  With both incidents taking place one after the other, many questioned the poor management by the organizers. As the fest season in DU comes to an end, artists who have performed at different colleges tell us that glitches are common at such events, but they still try and perform. On the other hand, students and fest organizers say that despite working hard for fests, some technical issues tend to go out of control.
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 Ayush Gupta, drummer and percussionist of Astitva, tells us that mismanagement and sound issues are some of the recurrent problems at fests. "We have encountered these problems twice in the past. I wouldn't like to take any names, but the technical requirements were not up to the mark, and since there was no technical support, we had to cancel our performance." Ayush adds, "Jab performance achhi nahi hoti, toh log sound ko gaali nahi dete, artist ko dete hain. The students often think, 'Artist college mein aa gaya, toh perform karega hi'. Par aisa nahi hota. They promise a lot of things, but they do not have the budget to meet all those requirements. Many a time, even the sponsors back out at the last moment. Instead of hiding these things, they should directly tell the artist about it."
 
  
  
 
 
  Rajarshi Sanyal, guitarist and songwriter of  , adds, "We have performed at different DU colleges, and one of the most common problems that artists face is related to the sound system. Technical glitches hote hain, but we try and perform, as we know that the students have worked hard in organizing the fest. They tend to manage a lot of things at the same time – jo debate competition kara raha hoga, woh hi sound system dekh raha hoga, toh technical issues hote hi hain."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Subir Malik from Parikrama, who handles more than 20 bands in the city, tells us that no performer wants to leave a gig midway unless there is a major problem. "No artist wants to disappoint his/her fans and I think the number of events that are cancelled at the last minute due to mismanagement is negligible. These fests are organized by students and not professionals. Sometimes, they hire event managers who work as a medium between the artists and the members of the students' union. However, one has to keep in mind that there are certain industry standards – if an artist is travelling from Mumbai, he will require a hotel to stay and other basic facilities – these are basic requirements, and it is the responsibility of the event manager to handle this. But a cylinder leak can happen anywhere. It is a machine which did not work well, we can’t even blame the event manager."
 
   , the drummer of Them Clones, adds, "Mostly, only a small group of students who are part of the students' union take the responsibility of organizing the whole event, and it becomes difficult for them to multi-task. Plus, once the show ends, the organizers disappear, so you cannot even talk about the payment after the show. That’s why we take 75% of the fees in advance, and the remaining 25% right before the sound check."
  
  Even before Diljit arrived, the crowd had broken the barricades near the stage at HRC (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 
 
 Ankit Khanuja, an event manager who manages DU fests, says that students often assign the responsibility of handling their fests to inexperienced event managers. "Artists are often flexible when it comes to payment or accommodation, but the sound equipment is non-negotiable. Yeh naye event managers paisa banane ke chakkar mein sound, security aur barricading par dhyaan nahi dete, tabhi mismanagement hota hai," he says. 
 
  Another event manager who has been organizing fests in DU for several years, adds, "Poor management happens because students are inexperienced in handling the artists. We keep telling them to book tickets for the artists in advance and make other arrangements, but they keep procrastinating, saying, 'Haan, kara denge.' Teachers and principals should also be involved in organizing fests, as we need mature people to handle such events," he says. 
 
  After leaving his concert midway at HRC, Diljeet told us, "I love my fans and it was unfortunate that the incident happened." Yogesh Chaudhary, general secretary of the students' union of HRC, says, "We had everything, a fire brigade and an ambulance. We never expected the situation to go out of hand this way. The cylinders were put there only for effects by our event manager. We can't even blame the artist in this case. In fact, we should have handled it better." 
 
  Bharatendu Verma, the president of the students' union of SRCC, adds, "We do not have the experience of organizing such big concerts. The finances and sponsorship for the fests are done by members of the students’ union, but other things, including managing the artists, booking their travel expenses, etc have to be done by the event manager. We work hard to make things possible, so it is not right to just blame the students for this."
 
  
 On March 5, Sachin Saipanwar, the president of the students' union of KMC, told us Sachin-Jigar had pulled out of their performance. However, Romil Ved, Sachin-Jigar's manager, had said, "We were dealing with them through an agency and on March 4, we wrote a mail to the KMC president, informing him that we decided to cancel the performance as we did not receive the airline tickets, hotel bookings, local travel confirmation and balance performing fee as discussed, till March 4 (the duo was to perform on March 5). We have performed at many institutes and universities, but we have faced this problem only with Delhi University. Even before the advance payment was made to us, they went out and put the posters everywhere."
 
  Later, the president of the students' union of KMC told us, "It was our mistake. We had promised them air tickets and hotel bookings, and they had also told us that they wanted the payment in cash. But we couldn't meet all those requirements, and that is why they cancelled. We had been working day and night for the fest, so nobody got time to look after these things. Seniors bataate nahi hain ki kya karna hai, aur phir humein jo experience hota hai hum wahi karte hain, aur yeh sab ho jata hai."
 
 
