NEW DELHI: As the saying goes, every criminal leaves behind a clue.   was no different. For  , he managed to   the   as he didn’t   a  . But in the age of smartphones and social networking, the temptation to stay connected proved too strong. 

 Dariyapur bought a cellphone with a Himachal Pradesh number that ended with 2632. He never called anyone from the number, but used the call feature of WhatsApp which is difficult to track. What he didn’t realise was that after killing his old rival Monu Dariyapur and a policeman, Special Cell was tailing him non-stop. 
 
 Cell sources said DCP Sanjeev Yadav had three teams stationed in Mandi, Palampur and Dharamshala since July. The information sent by the field officers was analysed and developed by another team in Delhi. The hardwork bore fruit in May when the Cell nabbed a man named Satish who was in touch with Dariyapur’s close aide. 
 
 This was followed by a series of arrests, including that of Dariyapur’s aide, Rajesh Rajje. Police also found their rented flats in Delhi where people who killed Monu had stayed. 
 
 Police then hacked into Dariyapur’s Facebook account and got hold of his WhatsApp number. Finally, the police had figured out two things—how he was hiding, and how he was meeting people. 
 
 “Dariyapur had rented five or six flats in different areas in Himachal Pradesh. To all his landlords and neighbours, he was a marketing manager who toured the country for the better part of the month. So he stayed at one flat for four or five days and then moved into another. This way, he would return to the first flat in two months or so,” said DCP Yadav. 
 
 Whenever Dariyapur had to meet a very close person, he would call on WhatsApp. For others in his gang, he would drop a message through Facebook messenger. But he was always careful not to give out his whereabouts or any other detail.
 
 “Anyone Dariyapur wanted to meet was asked to come and stay at a particular hotel in a different area and convey his vehicle number. He would then sneak into the hotel in disguise, meet the person and leave,” an officer said. 
 
 In the last few days, the police came close on his heels and posted personnel near his hideouts. People at mobile recharge shops and grocery stores that Dariyapur frequented, and his landlords were all taken into confidence by the police. 
 
 But then there was a problem—Dariyapur switched off his number for a month. But that’s when manual surveillance came into play. Last week, Dariyapur’s cover in Mandi was blown. But the police didn’t hurry and let him walk into their trap. 
 
 On Wednesday night, Sonu drove his i20 for the last time. The minimum sentence he is likely to get is life imprisonment. 
 
 
