AMRITSAR: Nearly two years after the   had ordered his excommunication from the Panth,   (HSGMC) president   has volunteered to appear before the Sikh authority to clarify the charges of trying to divide the SGPC levelled against him. 

 Jhinda told TOI on Monday that the Akal Takht had summoned him before his excommunication, but he couldn't comply with the orders due to "some reasons" at that time. "Now, the situation has changed. I have written to Akal Takht jathedar Giani Gurbachan Singh. I want to appear before Sikh high priests and clarify my position," Jhinda said.
 
 The change of heart by the   appears to have political undertones, as no excommunicated Sikh is allowed to contest the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) elections, which are expected to be held anytime in near future.
 
 On July 16, 2014,   had excommunicated Jhinda along with Haryana's then finance minister Harmohinder Singh Chatha and HSGMC senior vice-president Didar Singh Nalvi from the Panth. They were excommunicated for forming a separate gurdwara body in Haryana. At that time, the Akal Takht had claimed that trio had "connived with the Congress for dividing Sikhism's single largest representative body, SGPC.
 
 Akal Takht jathedar Gurbachan Singh said Jhinda could appear before the Sikh authority. "We will certainly talk it out," he said. 
 
 On the other hand, Nalvi, who was also excommunicated, said he was not going to appear before the Akal Takht. "We have fought the battle for the Sikhs of Haryana and can't betray them now. I am ready to appear before the Sikh high priests if SGPC withdraws its case against the formation of HSGMC from the Supreme Court and gives it due recognition," he said.
 
 After their excommunication, Jhinda and Nalvi had ruled out appearing before the Akal Takht in immediate future. "This is an issue between sangat (people) of Haryana and Shri Akal Takht Sahib. We shall do as directed by Sikhs in Haryana," Jhinda, the ad hoc committee president had said. 
 
