NEW DELHI: In what might be a first, a special   court on Monday awarded a two-year jail term to three former coal ministry officials, including former Union coal secretary H C  , in connection with a Coalgate case. 

 Along with Gupta, then joint secretary K S Kropha and former director K C Samaria were also handed jail terms with regard to allocation of Thesgora B/Rudrapuri coal block to Kamal Sponge Steel and Power Ltd (KSSPL).
 
 A fine of Rs 1 lakh was imposed on each of the former government employees. KSSPL managing director Pawan Kumar Ahluwalia was awarded a stiffer three years in jail and slapped with a fine of Rs 30 lakh, besides the company being directed to pay a fine of Rs 1 crore. 
 
 All of them were granted bail on personal bonds of Rs 1 lakh and a surety of like amount to enable them to appeal to the high court against their conviction. A special court had on March 19 convicted all the accused pertaining to alleged irregularities in allocation of the Thesgora-B Rudrapuri coal block in Madhya Pradesh to KSSPL. 
 
 As the coal secretary, Gupta used to head the screening committee which had recommended allocation of the blocks during the UPA-2 regime. The sentencing set off ripples of concern in the bureaucracy with some arguing that Gupta had taken the rap for a political decision.
 
  Another section of opinion was that senior officials must be responsible for decisions if they ignore guidelines and norms. While the sentencing of a former secretary was the subject of considerable comment in official circles and social media, it is not the first sentencing in Coalgate. 
 
 Two directors of Jharkhand Ispat Private Limited were convicted in connection with the allocation of a coal block in March last year. In the latest case, the court observed that the screening committee was given the task of verifying the claims of various applicants before recommending their names for allotment of coal blocks. The   too, when hearing the Coalgate cases, was critical of the screening committee which was seen to have acted on a political prompt, often failing to include even a comparative evaluation of contending claims in its official paperwork. 
 
 The court said the accused withheld the aspects of non-compliance with the guidelines from then PM Manmohan Singh, “knowing full well” that he would approve allocation on the basis of the screening committee’s recommendation. The three officials made “dishonest misrepresentation” of facts to the then PM while recommending allocation of a coal block to KSSPL, the CBI court observed. The court found that KSSPL’s application was “clearly incomplete” as it was not accompanied with the requisite documents, thus liable to be rejected at the initial stage itself. “The fact that the then PM of the country   thought it appropriate to retain the charge of ministry of coal with himself only clearly shows as to how important the work of said ministry was,” special judge Bha-
 
