Gurgaon: Like the sun on a freezing winter’s afternoon, or a cool breeze on a day of hot summer, the strains of classical music are a remedy for the frenzies and frictions of our lives. And there was plenty of therapy on offer over the weekend.

 The ‘HCL Concerts’ series, held concurrently in Gurgaon, Delhi and Noida, came to a stately close on the back of a performance by Shubha Mudgal that mixed tenderness with intensity. Mudgal observed, with some satisfaction, that the question need no longer be asked, whether there is an audience for India’s hoary traditions of classical music. On Sunday, Shiv Nadar School’s packed auditorium provided a ringing answer. 
 
 Kishori Amonkar, the fine Hindustani classical vocalist who passed away last week, was never far away from the musicians’ thoughts, and fittingly, the festival opened with Kaushiki Chakraborty honouring the memory of Amonkar with a contemplative rendition of ‘Mharo Pranam’, the Meera bhajan she made her own.
 
 That opening evening’s quintet collectively stopped just shy of reaching the heights their individual skills hinted at. Chakraborty’s voice floated sweetly and sparkily, counterpointing the pastoral tones of Rakesh Chaurasia’s flute and the depth-and-shimmer of Purbayan Chatterjee’s sitar. 
 
 The trio’s contributions were underpinned by the workmanlike Satyajit Talwalkar on tabla, while the pyrotechnics came via the percussion of Taufiq Qureshi (who, perhaps, was a little too keen to play to the gallery).
 
 The middle night represented the best of fusion, a term that, unfortunately, continues to be disparaged by the purists. 
 
 Of course, fusion need not be exhibitionist or abstruse, and Niladri Kumar, Gino Banks, Vijay Ghate, Sridhar Parthasarathy, Rhythm Shaw and Agnelo Fernandes were intent on proving so.
 
 And from the moment he stepped onto the stage, it was clear that Kumar was the bandleader. He gently mocked the habits of modern audiences to request for any which composition (or reach for their smartphones to record the music).
 
 On the sitar, Kumar was virtuosic. On the ‘zitar’, he was extraordinary. The zitar, incidentally, resembles an electric sitar, its tones at once invoking the blues-rock canon as they do the musical lore of classical India.
 
 Getting things under way was a number called ‘Priority’, which Kumar playfully introduced (without a hint of braggadocio) as ‘soundcheck’. 
 
 A paragraph alone could be devoted to ‘Priority’, its oceanic synth intro leading into blue-sky atmospherics that soared high towards the clouds, the melody washing all over the listener. 
 
 And that wasn’t all – their Raag Bhairavi found musical byways and alleyways one didn’t know existed, seguing this way and then that, while the sway and rhythm of ‘Raghupati Raghav Raja Ram’ didn’t make the hymn feel any less timeless. 
 
 Then, on the final day, there were Amaan and Ayaan Ali Bangash, accompanied by Anubrata Chatterjee and Shubh Maharaj, tabla players with impressive pedigree and twinkling talent. 
 
 Where their father combines felicity of expression with an understated majesty, Amaan and Ayaan bring rare flair and a light-fingered brilliance to the sarod. Excitingly, their best is yet to come!
 
 Finally, beholding Mudgal’s beautifully – and effortlessly – crafted Raag Yaman, one could have been sitting under a sky at dusk, as the twitter of birds give way to the chirp of crickets. 
 
 Sudhir Nayak was quite superb on the harmonium, as was Anish Pradhan on the tabla.
 
 
