BENGALURU: Silicon Hill's booming economy, especially its real estate sector, has led to a dramatic rise in the number of petty rowdies operating here, and this has triggered a major escalation in clashes between petty gangs and a huge increase in rowdy murders.

 While there are around 50 organised gangs, around 9,000 petty rowdies ran riot last year. Clashes among them resulted in 26 rowdy killings in 2016, compared to six in 2015. The escalating rowdy menace not only vitiates the atmosphere but becomes a huge prob comes a huge problem when these small-timers graduate to the big league. 
 
 According to sources in  , the enumeration of “budding rowdies“ till last December threw up 8,956 of them.
 
 “The rowdy activity is at its peak in parts of south Bengaluru like Banashankari, Hanumanthnagar, Subramanyapura and Achukattu, locations adjoining Nice Road and areas including Upparpet, Chickpet, Kamakshipalaya, Jnana Bharathi and Kengeri in west Bengaluru,“ said an officer with the Organised Crime Wing which keeps tab on them.
 
 The primary reason for petty rowdies striking roots in these localities is real estate, as they are often mediators in property disputes. The turf war among smaller gangs is also the motive for clashes and killings with parts of northern Bengaluru like Rajagopalnagar, Yeshwantpur, Peenya and Banaswadi also witnessing ex tensive rowdy activity last year.Central Bengaluru witnessed the least rowdy activity .
 
 Former cop and anti-gangster specialist BB Ashok Kumar terms budding rowdies “alarming" and said they must be dealt with an iron hand immediately. “A similar series of killings took place in 1995. It was dealt with strongly by police, resulting in gang activity being curbed. The increase in rowdy murders is a serious threat which needs to be nipped in the bud, else gang wars will erupt on a bigger scale," he said. 
 
 These petty rowdies start in small, like-minded groups and gain local notoriety through clashes in local drinking joints. They then clash in turf wars and also demand hafta from local businessman. A few are known to have affiliation to larger organised gangs.“In the Avinash murder case, we found that Bakery Raghu, believed to be an associate of notorious gangster Cycle Ravi, was involved. Ravi is wanted by police for numerous crimes including murders and offences under the Arms Act," added another officer attached to the anti-gang investigations.
 
