Pravin Krushna Tatkari from Khed in   owned a   which was insured with  . His driver parked the vehicle at Varal village in front of the cleaner’s house and during the night intervening 20 and 21 June 2010, his driver informed him that the vehicle was missing. A complaint was lodged and the   was intimated.

 The insurer repudiated the claim on May 7, 2011 on the ground that “reasonable care” had not been taken to safeguard the vehicle as required under the policy terms. So Tatkari filed a complaint before the district forum for a direction to pay Rs 11 lakhs towards the price of the vehicle along with interest, compensation and costs.
 
 The   company contested the complaint. It claimed that Tatkari himself had told the surveyor that one of the widows in the vehicle did not have any glass and that the car door was not locked. The company contended that failure to take reasonable   constituted a   of the policy terms and conditions, and so the rejection was justified. Upholding the insurance company’s stand, the complaint was dismissed. Takari appealed against this order.
 
 The Maharashtra State Commission considered the relevant clause which cast an obligation on the insured to take all reasonable steps to safeguard the vehicle. This clause provided that in the event of any accident or breakdown, the vehicle shall not be left unattended without proper precautions being taken to prevent further damage or loss. The commission noted that the policy did not define the meaning of “standard reasonable care”. The company’s contention that some security person should have been appointed was considered to be unreasonable. The only inference was that the “reasonable care” clause was being invoked by the insurance company to get an excuse to reject the claim.
 
 The state commission concluded that there was no fundamental breach of the policy terms so as to repudiate the claim. It directed the company to settle the claim together with 9% interest from the date when the complaint was filed. It also awarded Rs 50,000 as compensation and Rs 20,000 towards litigation costs.
 
 New India questioned this order in revision. The National Commission, through its order of July 13, 2017 delivered by M Shreesha for the bench along with justice D K Jain, concurred with the state commission’s reasoning that the claim was payable. However, it modified the quantum by directing 75% of the claim to be paid on non-standard basis, together with 9% interest from the date of repudiation. Four weeks were given for compliance, else interest would be payable at 12% for the period of delay. Since interest was awarded, separate compensation was not considered necessary and so the award of Rs 50,000 was set aside. The order for payment of litigation costs was also upheld.
 
 Conclusion: An insurance company must not have unrealistic expectations. When there is some minor breach of a policy condition, the claim has to be settled on non-standard basis. The insurance company cannot capitalize on it to reject the entire claim.
 
 (The author is a consumer activist and has won the Govt. of India's National Youth Award for Consumer Protection. His email is jehangir.gai.columnist@outlook.in)
 
 
