KOLKATA: The pasting that the Sri Lankan team has got in the first Test of the ongoing series must have gladdened cricket enthusiasts all over India. But three Indian fans from one south Kolkata neighbourhood are watching the proceedings with more interest than usual. 

 All hopes of their life returning to “normal” any time soon, they believe, depend solely on the Team India member who has given Sri Lankan batsmen a torrid time.
 
 Life has turned upside down for Swarup Sarkar (34), Jayanta Sarkar (39) and Shiva   (32) since July 15, when they were accused of abusing cricketer Mohammed   and his wife after a roadside spat in Poddar Nagar, off South City. Swarup and Jayanta are brothers and own a neighbourhood salon; both have become social pariahs in their own locality and have not been able to open their salon. And Pramanik, their friend-cum-assistant who helped them run the place, is nowhere to be seen since being hauled to the police station after the incident, which the entire locality now calls “shameful”.
 
 “We just want him (Shami) to come back after the series and seek his forgiveness. Life has become absolute hell for us in our neighbourhood, with our long-time friends and neighbours shunning us and our salon remaining closed for lack of customers,”   Sarkar, brother Swarup and Jayanta told TOI on Sunday. 
 
 Shami was abused in front of his   home on a Saturday night, two weeks ago, and then was told he would be taught a lesson if he dared step out because his BMW X1 had allegedly blocked Swarup’s bike. Shami lodged a police complaint after the caretaker of his building was assaulted. Police identified one of the three alleged harassers from CCTV footage at the three-storey apartment building, whose first floor Shami occupies, behind the South City mall. The three suspects were arrested a day after and released on bail.
 
 “My brothers had even called him up in Sri Lanka despite knowing how busy he would be, just to seek forgiveness,” said Suman.
 
 Forgiveness is something that Sri Lankan batsmen have not found from Shami so far as he scalped three of their key wickets for just 88 runs in the two innings combined as Indians wrapped up the match in four days. But the Sarkar brothers hope for a better deal. “We know how large-hearted he is,” Suman said. “He knows us by our face and only he can help get our life back to normal,” he added, considering “the type of treatment we have got in our locality since the incident”.
 
 Since the incident, the Sarkars had to shut down their salon and Pramanik was threatened by the cops to “never enter the area again”. The bike belonging to Swarup is still with the Jadavpur police station, the brothers are constantly under police watch and everyone — from the Sarkars’ children to neighbours — now avoid speaking much to them. “Since the incident, Swarup mostly stays out of the locality. Jayanta, who also runs a chicken shop, has only started business recently but few people in the locality buy from him,” said an uncle of the brothers who lives in the ground floor of the same building where the two stayed, but requested not to be named in fear of more embarrassment. When TOI visited Poddar Nagar on Sunday, the two brothers were not home and their relatives said they would be back only late at night.
 
 Swarup has three children — a son and two daughters — all below 10 years old and Jayanta has a daughter who studies in Class VI. “Swarup’s daughter still questions him how he could leave the home bare-chested and barge into the house of someone as popular as Shami. But even my nephews are apologetic for what they had done. We had personally met Shami after the incident and the brothers had called him while he was in Sri Lanka. Shami has received their apologies and said he would speak to the police and people in the neighbourhood to get them out of this current state of despair,” the uncle said.
 
 Shami is currently touring Sri Lanka as part of the Indian team that takes part in three Tests, five ODIs and a T20 match. The tour is scheduled to end on September 6 and Shami is expected to return home sometime in the second week of September.
 
