THRISSUR: The decision of the festival coordination committee to step up their agitation for sanction to conduct fireworks displays in the traditional manner, without any restrictions, shows where they stand on the  .

 There are about 1,450 registered temple festivals across the state and out of them 550 arrange fireworks displays according to  , convener of the festival coordination committee. Many churches have joined the bandwagon in the recent years.
 
 The current crisis was triggered by the decision of Thrissur district administration to prohibit the use of hazardous and high-decibel items like gundu, amittu and kuzhiminni, as they are not permitted by central laws. The decision to strictly enforce the rules was taken in the backdrop of the tragedy which occurred during the temple festival at Puthingal, Kollam claiming 112 lives on April 10, last year.
 
 The rule prohibiting hazardous items was introduced by the Centre in 2008 by the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) in 2008.
 
 The current crisis is also a pointer to the highly disorganized manner in which many festivals are conducted.Festival organizers plan them often without realizing that the rules regulating fireworks display and use of elephants are largely framed by the Centre and the state government or the district administration have only limited powers.
 
 The Union industries ministry had deputed joint secretary Shailendra Singh last month to make a groundlevel assessment of the demands made by Thiruvambady and   festival committees in Thrissur and Palakkad.
 
 He had submitted his report to the Ministry early this month but the ministry is yet to take a decision on this.Interestingly , the BJP leaders who extended support to the hartal by the festival coordination committee have not commented on the delay .
 
 Activists like V K Venkitachalam of the Heritage Animal Task Force point out that 451 people have lost their lives in 213 firework accidents during the last three years across the state.This is in addition to the 112 people who died in Puttingal tragedy . Out of 451 deceased 113 had died at display sites and the remaining had died in explosions at illegal fireworks production units.
 
 Despite the mishaps festival organisers in Kerala have not taken efforts to adopt technologies to make fireworks displays a safe visual entertainment, which is the current trend all over the world.
 
 “It should not be forgotten that casualties were very few this year in Thrissur. The tough stance of the administration was an important factor in averting those tragedies,'' Venkitachalam said.
 
 Pointing out that several festival organisers have migrated to less hazardous and low decibel fancy fireworks this year, the district collector Dr A Kowsigan said with the enforcement of the laws more will adopt the trend.
 
