BENGALURU: Karnataka government on Wednesday admitted that 765 hectares of the ecologically sensitive   were encroached upon by 639 individuals. The controversy revolving around the withdrawal of the ‘Conservation Reserve’ tag triggered a spate of allegations against the government, with civil society members and seers claiming that the forest area would be opened to mining operations.

 Congress leader VS Ugrappa tabled the Kappatagudda issue for discussion in the legislative council on Wednesday. Seeking details on   of the forest, Ugrappa said, “The rising pollution levels and soaring temperatures point to the need to conserve forest areas. The government must not yield to pressure form vested interests, and must not allow plundering of Kappatagudda forest’s mineral wealth.”
 
 The Kappatagudda issue has been a particularly thorny one for the Siddaramaiah government to deal with in the past few months. The forest is spread over 32,093 hectares in   district. In an order dated December 19, 2015, the government assigned the ‘Conservation Reserve’ tag to 17,872 hectares of the forest in Mundaragi and Shrihati taluks in Gadag, citing the importance of protecting the flora and fauna in the biodiversity-rich area. “There is a need to conserve this precious area, and the irreplaceable unique wealth of nature,” the order read.
 
 However, on November 4, 2016, the government did a volte-face, rescinding the December 2015 order. Justifying its decision, the government said that the withdrawal of the reserve tag was taken in the wake of objections from public. Moreover, the government said, Kappatagudda forest was not contiguous with national parks and sanctuaries. The explanation did not go down well with the civil society, and allegations of schemes to exploit the forest’s mineral wealth were hurled at the government.
 
 Forest minister   said that just 191 cases of encroachment had been registered till 1978. “But a total of 639 cases have been registered in the last four decades. Action will be initiated to evict encroachers from forest land,” he added.
 
 When queried if the ‘Conservation Reserve’ tag would be restored to the forest, Rai said, “We are awaiting the submission of a public consultation report. Once we get the report, it will be placed before the State Wildlife Board, and the right decision will be taken.”
 
 
