NAGPUR: Packaged milk major   from Friday by Re1 for a half-litre pack and Rs2 for a litre. With this, prices of basic toned   will touch Rs41 a litre and Rs21 for a half-litre packet. The high fat variety of the brand will cost Rs52 a litre.

 This hike, coming eight months after the last hike, is required to pass on the increase in   to consumers, said the milk producer. The procurement rates have gone up due to a major shortage in  . The shortage is due to a cyclical down turn in  , which is directly related to milk output.
 
 Low milk production leads to lower earnings for farmers, while other expenses like fodder cost have gone up. To offset this, procurement prices have been hiked.
 
 Prior to the increase in 2016, Amul had hiked prices over two years ago. Once Amul increases prices, other branded producers are expected to follow suit, said sources in the dairy industry.
 
 TOI inquired with other private brands like Dinshaws and Mother Dairy as well as the government milk scheme, but officials said there have been no orders to increase the prices so far. However, it has been a practice in the industry to increase rates after one brand does so.
 
 This is because mainly hikes are due to an increase in procurement price given to farmers. Since farmers are likely to shift to the producer who pays a higher rate, other producers too go for a hike, ultimately increasing sales price.
 
 A source in Dinshaws Group said the company is yet to take a decision on the issue. There was no decision at Mother Dairy too. The latter entered Nagpur market a month ago and is selling at Rs40 to 41 a litre.
 
 However, Maharashtra Rajya Dugdh Kruti Samiti, an association of both cooperative and private milk producers in the state, held a meeting last week, where it was agreed that a rate hike was imminent, said Karan Ramteke of Bhandara Milk Producers Union. “There has been a major shortage of production, with many cooperatives in the region having closed down over a period,” he said.
 
 According to the state’s dairy development department, milk collection during February came down by 50,000 litres at 4.07 lakh litres a day in the five districts of Vidarbha as compared to last year. 
 
 Despite the hike, the margin for producers will be only slender and in many variants the producer may even incur a loss, said a source in Amul here.
 
 The situation was exactly the reverse last year, when surplus milk from other districts landed up at Nagpur and had to be sent to Mumbai and other consumption centres, said a source in government dairy department.
 
 There is a shortage of milk worldwide, which has taken the rates of powdered milk to $3,500 a tonne from $1,900 last year.
 
