KOLKATA: In the 1940s, the sprawling Bose family with   as the matriarch living in two addresses —   and 1 Woodburn Park — owned several cars. The large Studebaker was used for family outings. The compact Opel was preferred by men for going about town to carry out errands. The   was also there for everyday use. When   was finalizing the Great Escape in the winter of 1940, he decided on the Wanderer W24.

 On the face of it, the Wanderer was an unusual choice. It’s powerful engine made a racket, not quite the getaway car in the dead of night. The Opel was quieter. But Subhas’ decision lay on an unusual quality in the German-made saloon: unlike the other cars in the Bose family fleet, the Wanderer could do long distances without the need to stop and water the radiator. In those pre-coolant days, overheating caused problem, particularly on long drives.
 
 There was another consideration. His nephew Sisir, then barely 20, drove the Wanderer and had the endurance to be at the wheel for hours. On the fateful day, Sisir drove all night to reach his elder brother Ashok Nath’s bungalow at Barari in the morning. Subhas, disguised as Md Ziauddin, an insurance agent, alighted from the car well before the bungalow. Sisir drove down, while Subhas walked cautiously. The duo spent the day in the house. Later that evening, Sisir, Ashok and his wife, Mira, dropped Subhas off at Gomoh station from where he took the Kalka Mail.
 
 “Subhas was supposed to catch the train from either Dhanbad or Asansol. But Ashok Nath advised him to take the train from Gomoh because it was less busy and the chance of being spotted was low,” said   Subhas Chandra Bose’s grandnephew Abhijit Ray, who has researched on the Great Escape, a clandestine journey that began in the wee hours of January 17, 1941 from 38/2 Elgin Road in Kolkata and ended three months later in Berlin when Goebell’s radio service announced to the world that he had evaded the British intelligence and reached the German capital to seek Hitler’s help.
 
 Sisir returned to Woodburn Park on the evening of January 18. 
 
 Despite being tired, he then attended a wedding at CR Das’s house, on his father Sarat’s insistence.
 
 Netaji’s niece Chitra Ghosh recounts that on January 26, 1941, she and her sister Roma, along with their parents, were at the Rishra family house, when cousins Dwijendranath and Ganesh (sons of Suhbas’s brother Satish) burst into the room and announced that Rangakaka aka Subhas was missing. Subhas had actually slipped away nine days earlier, crouching on the sedan’s footboard and clutching onto the door handle. “As the car left Elgin Road, Subhas did not shut the door but held onto the handle; only Sisir shut the door on his side as they wanted to give the impression that only one person had boarded the car. Only after they had traversed some distance that Subhas closed shut the door,” recounted Ghosh.
 
 
  
 
 No one in the Bose household realized over the next few days that Subhas was not living there any more. His absence was expertly camouflaged by nephews and niece Aurobinda, Ela and Dwijendranath, who pretended to take fruits to his room and actually ate those themselves. They even flushed the toilet to create the illusion that Subhas was around. 
 
 “The Great Escape stunned the British. Teams were sent to Belur Math, Dakshineswar and Kalighat to ask if Subhas had taken refuge there. Musician Dwijendralal Ray’s son Dilip, Subhas’s close friend, had become a monk at Aurobinda’s Pondicherry ashram. My father sent a telegram to Pondicherry to find out if Subhas had joined Dilip,” said Chitra. But neither the telegram nor the frantic searches found mention in the declassified files. Researchers, such as Chandrachur Ghosh of Mission Nataji, also found it odd there was no record of the event that shook the British pride and led to the launch of a nationwide manhunt.
 
 Netaji’s grandnephew Chandra wondered if the British looked the other way and allowed Subhas to flee so that they could liquidate him once he crossed over to Afghanistan. “It isn’t impossible. The British were aware if they harmed Subhas in India, it would start a rebellion. I believe the Great Escape actually began from Kabul on March 17, 1941, where he gave the British sleuths a slip and travelled to Russia en route Berlin, in the guise of an Italian, Orlando Mozatta,” he said.
 
 
