THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state budget, which had proposed restoration of   canal in the previous budget, has rolled out a series of schemes to revamp   of historic importance in the district in the budget 2017-18. An amount of Rs 50 crore has been fixed as estimated amount for deepening Parvathy Puthanar from Kovalam to Pallithura as per the state waterways norms. 

 The announcement comes in the wake of survey department inching towards conclusion of a survey to determine the present boundaries of Parvathy Puthanar and to identify encroachments. Five footbridges have been proposed across Parvathy Puthanar at a cost of Rs 2.05 crore. The locals have always objected to cleaning of Parvathy Puthanar saying that they would not let any activity to be undertaken in the canal unless their demand for footbridges is met.
 
 The historic waterway connecting Anchuthengu backwaters to Nadayara backwaters, which also includes the famous tunnels, will be revamped at a cost of Rs 129.5 crore. An amount of Rs 7.09 crore has been allocated for protecting boundaries of Kadinamkulam backwaters till Pallithura. The budget proposes Rs 10 crore to complete the balance works from ISRO bridge to Kadinamkulam backwaters and for Kovalam - Akkulam waterway.
 
 The state government has proposed use of granite stones measuring 1-2 tonnes to resolve an issue at Kunnumanal arising from natural deposit of sand as part of various project components to restore Parvathy Puthanar. The inland navigation department had earlier undertaken a project to resolve the issue by demolishing the mountain of natural sand deposit that have blocked the flow of Parvathy Puthanar to sea. 
 
 The project is centred at the point called Kunnumanal. Various drains from city converge at Thekkanakkara canal eventually leading to Parvathy Puthanar. From the point at Kunnumanal water naturally flowed to both sides; either to Veli or to Poonthura. The natural design was such that water never spilled over and caused flooding as it was directed to both sides. Once the sand deposits piled up creating a mountain like heap at Kunnumanal, the flow of flood water to Poonthura was completely blocked. This deposit also formed a natural bridge between Edayar and Poonthura and the area had been notorious for communal tension between two sects and the locals objected to demolition of this passage. 
 
 A security divider will be constructed at the point between   and Vazhavila bridge at a cost of Rs 1.7 crore. Dredging activities will be carried out from Moonnattumukku to Akkulam at a cost of Rs 1.6 crore. 
 
 
