MADURAI: Implying that long-term study of   is crucial while addressing issues like climate change,  , associate professor of the department of History at the  , said that it should be taught as a core programme in educational institutions.

 Inaugurating ‘Networking on Eco-historic and Cultural Heritage of India’, a two-day seminar organised by the   here on Tuesday, Vipul Singh talked about Rapa Nui tribe of the Easter Island. “The mystery of nearly 900 monuments with oversized heads in the island and its declined population could be better explained with the help of Environmental History of excessive deforestation leading to catastrophic results. Environmental History should be approached with inter-disciplinary research. The subject has got huge potential and employability,” he said.
 
 Talking to reporters later, Vipul Singh said that Environmental History is a relatively new area in India, though the subject was introduced in the United States and Europe by 1970s. “Environmental History should be introduced in undergraduate level as a core programme with inter-disciplinary approach. There should be scientific elements along with history,” he said. 
 
 Singh also shared his hypotheses on stepwells found in states like Rajasthan and Gujarat. “The system was evolved in Indus Valley civilisation in the Kutch area of Gujarat. They became useful in areas experiencing torrential rainfall in short periods. It is interesting to see how such a model expanded towards further west of Rajasthan and towards the east like Delhi where the sultans established their cities on the banks of Yamuna. But when rulers sought protection of hillocks or elevated landscape away from the water bodies, stepwells were dug. A long-term study on stepwells has bring out the environmental issue and its mitigation,” he explained.
 
 The subject could provide employment for students in sectors including journalism and non-governmental environment organisations, he added.
 
 Principal of the college A Mercy Pushpalatha also spoke.
 
