PANAJI: The RSS-rebel-faction-backed Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM) party has set its eyes on Panaji and Mandrem, two prestigious constituencies, with an eye to demolish the   (BJP) base in the state. The move proves that GSM is willing to go to any extent to settle scores with chief minister   and defence minister  .

 The RSS breakaway outfit has a strong presence in Mandrem and Panaji, with around 3,500 sanghchalaks in Mandrem and around 1,500 sanghchalaks in Panaji, and the GSM has decided to field sanghchalak of RSS Goa prant (north), Raju Sukerkar, from the Panaji seat. They are yet to finalize their Mandrem candidate.
 
 GSM president Anand Shirodkar told TOI that, as part of their strategy against the BJP government, winning the Mandrem and Panaji seats is the party’s top priority.
 
 “We are flexible in our plans to defeat Parsekar in Mandrem and Parrikar’s candidate in Panaji, and may not think twice before changing our policies towards this goal,” Shirodkar added.
 
 Since inception, GSM has gone hammer and tongs at Parrikar, who is instrumental in continuing grants to Church-run, English-medium primary schools, and has made clear its intentions of favouring the existing Konkani and Marathi-medium primary schools and opposing English-medium schools. 
 
 Further to their endeavour to see the BJP defeated at the assembly polls 2017, GSM has formed a pre-poll alliance with the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) and will contest in around nine constituencies that are Goa RSS prant strongholds, including Mandrem, Panaji, Mayem, Siolim, Sakhali, Curchorem, Panaji, Taleigao and Velim. GSM, though, remained undecided about contesting from the Porvorim and Aldona constituencies.
 
 The GSM and MGP have not come to a conclusion on which of them should contest from the Mandrem constituency. It is a possibility that they may come to an understanding wherein each party may support an independent candidate. “We have not decided on a candidate for Mandrem, but if other parties decided to come together to defeat Parsekar then we can even field an independent candidate from the constituency,” Shirodkar said.
 
 The two names the GSM and MGP have zeroed in for Mandrem are that of MGP leader   and former Pernem MLA Dayanand Sopte.
 
 Sources said the Goa RSS prant cadre wants to field their sanghchalak and Bharatiya Bhasha Suraksha Manch leader Subhash Velingkar from Mandrem, the constituency where he spent his teaching career. Velingkar has rejected the cadre’s request to contest the assembly elections, sources said.
 
 The Goa RSS prant cadre has already started campaigning in Panaji and Mandrem constituencies, and GSM supporters are visiting houses in this constituencies telling people that the government has cheated the state on the medium of instruction (MoI) issue.
 
 With St Cruz MLA Atanasio Monserrate alias Babush already announcing his candidature from Panaji and now GSM’s candidate Sukerkar joining the fray, Parrikar will have a tough time ensuring victory for his protégé and Panaji MLA Sidharth Kuncalienker, a political commentator said. 
 
 With a strong anti-incumbency sentiment building up against Parsekar in his constituency, Mandrem will not prove a cakewalk for him either. Parsekar won the Mandrem seat three times, mostly on account of division of votes, said a political commentator, and added that with GSM moving in on the Mandrem radar, the time has come for the chief minister to put his house in order if he wants to retain the seat.
 
 
