MYSURU/BENGALURU/BELAGAVI: With pressure mounting on the Congress government to initiate action against small scale industries minister Ramesh L Jarkiholi, chief minister Siddaramaiah on Wednesday said he'll get a report on the I-T raids from the  . 

 Siddaramaiah told the media in Mysuru that the   does not submit reports either to the CM or the state government, but nonetheless he will seek one to consider any further action against the minister. Siddaramaiah said he will also seek a report on the raids against KPCC women wing chief  . 
 
  Politically motivated: Ramesh 
 
  Meanwhile, Jarkiholi on Wednesday issued statements to the media citing that the raids against him were wrongfully reported by the I-T department. He admitted that as much as Rs 115 crore worth of property was seized by the department as opposed to the claim of Rs 162 crore and 12.8 kg gold. He said of the Rs 115 crore, Rs 80 crore belonged to Soubhagyalaxmi sugar factory and the remaining Rs 35 crore was related to various transactions of the factory, which is not benami. "I have already declared the source to I-T officials," he said. 
 
 Jarkiholi claimed that most of the transactions of the factory were made through the  , but no rule was violated. "I'm ready to provide all the details to the I-T department. It's not fair on part of officials to highlight the same as a big crime and portray me as a criminal," he said.
 
 He said the Rs 20 lakh and 8-kg gold found in his brother Lakkan Jarkiholi's house and 4.5 kg of gold in their sister's home were also accounted for and there was no black money with them either. 
 
 "Despite producing all the documents, I-T officials have been spreading lies through the media just to embarrass me," he alleged.
 
 Jarkiholi said the conspiracy of his political rivals to defame his image and dethrone him from the cabinet won't work. "I will give a report to KPCC president G Parameshwara about the raid. Such politically motivated raids can't damage my image in the public domain,'' Jarkiholi stated.
 
