PUNE:   at the state-run   attached Sassoon hospital continued to stay off work on the third day of their protest on Wednesday.

 Despite being rapped by the Bombay high court and served expulsion notices by the authorities for striking work under the pretext of mass leave, the resident doctors here decided to continue with their protest stating that they are on   in individual capacity and not on strike, therefore it does not amount to contempt of court.
 
 “All the 260 resident doctors at B J Medical College attached Sassoon hospital have decided to stay off work till the state government gives us the assurances in writing. We stand united on this stand. Even a handful of residents who had joined work on Tuesday night have now gone on leave. Besides,150 interns — (MBBS) students — who are serving a yearlong internship at the hospital have joined us in the protest,” a resident doctor said.
 
 The state government has declared a provision of Rs 43 crore for deploying 1,100 security guards at 14 state-run medical colleges attached hospitals across the state. “This is an old assurance that has been reiterated again this time. Till the authorities give it to us in writing, our mass leave will continue,” another resident doctor said.
 
 The medical services at the   have taken a beating after its resident doctors, who are postgraduate students of the B J Medical College, joined the state-wide indefinite mass bunk on Monday. 
 
 “All planned surgeries have been postponed. We are currently handling only emergency care, including deliveries, road accidents and trauma cases and care of admitted patients,” said an official from the hospital. Authorities, however, claimed that services had remained largely unaffected as about 150 professors, associate professors, assistant professor and lecturers have been pressed into patient care services.
 
 In a meeting held between resident doctors and hospital administration late in the evening, the administration asked the protesting doctors to list down their demands.
 
