KOLKATA: After external makeovers, chief minister Mamata Banerjee has shifted attention to internal changes at state-run hospitals with a move that promises cleaner beds and a dash of colour. 

 Health department officials said a circular has been issued to hospitals that spells out colour-coded bed sheets for each day of the week. The move is aimed at better linen management and improved hygiene. At present, the white and green sheets used in   beds are at times unchanged for days, giving rise to fears of infection. 
 
 Once implemented, patients at government hospitals across the state will be in the ‘pink of health’ on Mondays. The blues, in different hues, will be reserved for Tuesdays and Saturdays. Brown will be the colour on Wednesdays and yellow on Sundays. The familiar green and white will make their appearance on Thursdays and Fridays. 
 
 “This is an initiative to ensure that bed sheets are changed daily. The maintenance and changing will be monitored strictly by the nursing staff,” said Dr  , deputy superintendent at NRS Medical College and Hospital (NRSMCH). 
 
 Some hospitals like NRSMCH had started such an initiative on their own but it was restricted to critical wards that required maximum hygiene. But now, the rollout will be statewide.
 
 According to Swastha Bhavan officials, all health facilities run by the state government has to implement the order. 
 
 “We have started procuring stock and the change will be visible soon. The idea is very scientific. Hospital authorities as well as patients can understand whether the bed sheets have been changed or not,” said  , medical superintendent & vice-principal (MSVP) at  .
 
 “Over the last few years, cleanliness in government hospital has improved markedly. But there is always room for more improvement. This step will help improve it further,” said Calcutta National Medical & College MSVP Pitbaran Chakraborty. 
 
 While each bed will sport a sheet of different colour seven days a week, hospitals have to procure 21 bedsheets for each bed to ensure there are three sets of sheets of each colour, said Supriyo Choudhury, the deputy superintendent of R G Kar Medical College and Hospital. 
 
 With each bed sheet costing Rs 448, the financial implication of the move will be gigantic. The cost of procuring these bed sheets for the five teaching hospitals in the city in itself is Rs 7.5 crore. 
 
 Statewide, the figure is expected to cross Rs 20 crore.
 
 Jayanta Sanyal, deputy superintendent of Calcutta Medical College & Hospital, felt it was a welcome move as it would help ensure better housekeeping in hospitals. But not everyone shares the enthusiasm. Some believe resources could have been used more wisely on enhancing manpower and other facilities.
 
 Earlier, the government had spent several crores on constructing gigantic gates at hospitals and then painting them blue and white. While it did attract criticism, there were others who felt it did spruce up state hospitals.
 
