CHANDIGARH: Swami Vivekanand preached the philosophy of self less service to humanity. As an apt tribute to the great spiritual leader on  ,   &   (ROTTO) PGIMER organised awareness and infotainment sessions in collaboration with Govt Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 20, University   (UILS),   and Rajiv Gandhi National Institute of Youth Development, Chandigarh on Thursday.

 The infotainment session at Govt Senior Secondary School, Sector 20-D, witnessed an enthusiastic response. Starting with an awareness talk on the altruistic cause of Organ Donation by Nilakshi, Transplant Coordinator, ROTTO PGIMER, the session comprised Face Painting competition wherein the students displayed stupendous imagination and creativity as well as sensitivity towards the cause at its best.
 The event culminated with a rally which was flagged off by the Principal Meena Kapur. Sharing her views on the initiative, Kapur said “Encouraging participation from the students to inculcate awareness among family members to promote the cause is really thoughtful. We all must join hands and synergise so that precious lives are not lost for the want of organs.” 
 
 Over 200 students and volunteers pledging their support for this humanitarian endeavour and carrying placards with motivational messages, participated in the rally which was coordinated by s Parminder Kaur, NSS Coordinator. The enthusiasm of the students at the rally was really contagious.
 
 In the second event organised to mark the National Youth Day at Institute of Legal Studies, Panjab University, over 50 students participated in the awareness talk on the subject of Organ Donation. Complimenting ROTTO for taking forward the mandate by tapping multiple windows of opportunities, Pawan Kumar, NSS Coordinator said, "Swami Vivekanand teaches us love and service to humanity and there cannot be a better service than saving someone’s life. We support this noble initiative and would urge one and all in the University to join hands and be a donor.”
  
 Commemorating the National Youth Day, ROTTO organised another Awareness cum Sensitisation Session in collaboration with Rajiv Gandhi National Institute for Youth Development, Sector 12, Chandigarh. 
 
 Stanzin Dawe, Regional Director, Rajiv Gandhi National Institute of Youth Development, “The intent behind organising this session was to build awareness and a positive attitude towards this noble cause. We would motivate more people to come forward, and register their wish.”
  
 The camp concluded with 32 participants registering their pledge for organ donation at the spot and over 50 forms were distributed to those showcasing their interest to register their wish for organ donation.
 
 
 
