NEW DELHI: Aspirants seeking   to BCom(H) and   programmes will not just have to brave high cutoffs, but they will also have cross the hurdle of additional  . 

 The commerce department of   (DU) has laid down additional criteria both in the calculation of best of four subjects (BFS) for cutoff calculations as well as subjects studied.
 
 For admission to BCom(H) or BCom for the academic session 2017-18, aspirants have been divided into three categories — C1, C2 and others (see graphic). Both these undergraduate courses are among the most sought after programmes where cutoffs have been the highest for almost a decade.
 
 A candidate seeking a BCom(H) seat must have either   or business mathematics at Class XII Board exam to be eligible for admission. Moreover, if the list of subjects notified by the university in the two categories is not part of BSF, aspirants stand to lose nearly 2.5% points per subject. This was approved by the standing committee on admissions on Friday.
 
 C1 category candidates are those who have three core subjects among mathematics, accountancy, business studies/ commerce and economics, along with English or Hindi. 
 
 Cutoff will be calculated based on three best scores among the core subjects and one of the languages.
 
 “In case a candidate doesn’t have either of the core subjects in BFS, for each subject enlisted in the C2 category list a penalty of 1% point per subject will be imposed. So, an aspirant who has scored 90% in one subject from the C2 category list, four marks will be deducted from his score before his BFS aggregate is calculated,” said Pankaj Garg, a member of the standing committee.
 
 Similarly, any aspirant who includes subjects other than those listed in C1 and C2 categories in BFS calculation stands to lose 2.5% points per subject. This means that for every subject not listed in either of the categories, 10 marks will be deducted from the score.
 
 For admission to BCom (H), not only will a student need to have studied either mathematics or business mathematics till Class XII, but he should have also passed in the subject in the Class XII Board or equivalent exam.
 
