BENGALURU: Shashank Udupa had invested in a home in Yelahanka in 2013 and the builder had assured him possession by November 2015. Though 80% of the apartment has been completed, he is yet to get possession. 

  The 53-year-old was planning to sue the builder soon after the Karnataka Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act was implemented. But his worst fears came true on Thursday when the cabinet decided to exclude from its ambit ongoing projects where 60% of the work has been completed or where sale deeds have been executed. 
 
  Many buyers like Udupa feel they have been let down by the government. Some are planning to challenge the cabinet decision on the grounds that it is against the spirit of the federal law. The dejected buyers include the beneficiaries of the Kempe Gowda layout and Arkavathy layout developed by   (BDA). 
 
 MS Shankar, convener of Fight for  , Karnataka chapter, said he apprehends the final rules may exclude even projects for which builders have applied for occupancy certificates or part completion certificates. 
 
 "There are also no clear guidelines to determine the stage of completion of a project, so developers could manipulate it,'' he said.
 
 He said the all India chapter of Fight for RERA has decided to file a petition in the Supreme Court over the dilution of rules by various states, including Karnataka. The Karnataka chapter is planning to challenge separately the state cabinet decision.
 
 Some feel the 60% threshold has been fixed mainly to protect BDA and the  . If all ongoing projects had been brought under the Act's purview, then the government would, perhaps, have been forced to pay huge penalties to house allottees and faced thousands of litigation from allottees and landowners in layouts such as Kempe Gowda layout.
 
 Builders, on the contrary, were welcoming of the 60% threshold. Om Ahuja, CEO-residential, Brigade Group, said opening up the rules of the game completely for industry players who had already invested so much would only have adversely impacted project completion. But it's good that projects below 60% will be under full coverage, he said.
 
 M Murali, managing director, Shriram Properties, described it as a win-win for both buyers and builders. Zahed Mahmood, director,  , noted that before the bylaw for building construction came about, there was no need for an occupancy certificate from the BBMP. So there are properties in Bengaluru that would have been completed and occupied some 30 years ago without the certificate. "If it were not for the 60% rule, then all of the old properties would become illegal. The government has kept this in mind in making that decision," he said.
 
 However, he said builders would like the Act to exclude all projects that had received a commencement certificate. There will be differences on how to estimate the percentage of completion of a project, he said.
 
 Harish Achar Brahmavar, founder and director, Homz n Space, said the 60% norm allows builders to breathe a bit now. "If the government had included all ongoing projects, it would have directly impacted the property rates. If 60% is considered towards the number of floors constructed or as per PMC (performance measure certification) / audit records, then it's a decent margin for builders as well as home buyers," he said.
 
