LUCKNOW: Director   lodged an FIR at   police station on Sunday against his predecessor, accusing him of forging documents to cheat the government.

 Accusing B N Tripathi of overlooking payment related anomalies during his tenure and showing undue haste in approving payment of Rs 9 crore for construction work, K K Gupta complained to the police, on the basis of which FIR under sections 419, 420, 467, 468 and 471 was registered against Tripathi.
 
 On the other hand, Tripathi maintained he had informed his senior about the fraud when he came to know about it but Verma questioned Tripathi’s intentions in reporting the anomalies a year after they took place. Tripathi had commissioned various projects related to construction at government medical college buildings in Allahabad, Agra and  . UPCIDCO was given the job for construction work and a budget of Rs 20 crore was approved.
 
 An agency is paid some amount upfront by government to begin work but after that it has to submit a work utilisation certificate according to phases of construction completed, in order to claim balance payment. Verma noticed that Rs 9 crore had been sanctioned even though not much work was done. It was also noticed that no steps were taken to ensure that no more payment was made to UPCIDCO, hence an FIR was lodged against Tripathi.
 
 In his defence, Tripathi said he was being victimised out of departmental rivalry. “I had informed my senior about the matter earlier but got no instructions from his end. I reported the matter to government in writing on July 18 and would tell the investigating officer about the fraud,” said Tripathi.
 
 Hazratganj police SHO Anand Shahi said the statement of the director of the three medical colleges in Agra, Allahabad and Meerut would be sought as they were also involved in the process of approving payments and detecting anomalies. “We will take action against the persons responsible. Overlooking wrongdoings beyond justifiable time period suggests collusion between various stakeholders,” said Shahi.
 
