JAIPUR: Sawai Man Singh medical college will construct an eight-storey   near the Institute of traumatology and orthopaedics, where it will set up its super specialities including organ transplant institute. Earlier, it had decided to construct 14-storey building for the purpose.

 However, SMS medical college administration claimed that to start with they would construct eight floors first but later, it will be increased to 14 floors.
 
 SMS medical college principal Dr US   said, “We will construct the super speciality block, not keeping in mind the need of the present but we will construct it for future needs. We have planned it looking at needs of super specialities for next 20 years.”
 
 However, SMS hospital is developing as a centre for super specialities. The super specialities such as cardiology, nephrology, and neurology need more space for patients. The existing facilities of super specialities in main building is not enough for patients as they are often seen getting treatment on the floor of the wards as beds remain occupied with patients.
 
 SMS medical college principal Dr US Agarwal said for the construction of new super speciality block, Rs120 crore will be provided by the Centre while Rs80crore will be spent by the state. The Centre’s share would be 60%, while 40% of total cost of the project will be spend by the state.
 
 The super specialities block will come up at two MLA quarters near Institute of Traumatology and Orthopaedics on  .
 
 The SMS medical college has also issued tenders to demolish the two MLA quarters allotted to the SMS medical college for construction of new block.
 
 Dr Agarwal said, “One of the most ambitious projects of the government, which is institute of organ transplant, will also be accommodated at the new super speciality block.”
 
 The focus of the health department is more on organ transplant. In the financial budget 2017-18, chief minister   had announced Rs20crore for developing the heart transplant facilities in the SMS hospital. The hospital has recently conducted its first liver transplant. 
 
 
