MUMBAI: The ongoing   has left organisers of the   having to make do with reduced space at Azad Maidan and certain others spots for this year’s edition. The organisers said on Wednesday that this was an inevitability they saw coming last year itself.

 The holding area at Azad Maidan, where the amateur runners usually assemble before their start time, has had to concede ground to metro work underway in South Mumbai. A total of 6,342 runners have registered for this year’s full marathon which, for amateurs, flags off just outside the   (CST) at 5.40 am. 
 
 “There is crunched space available to us at Azad Maidan as a result of the metro work, but metro authorities have given us special access to Gate Two just for the marathon day,” Vivek Singh, joint managing director, Procam International, the race promoters, said at a press conference on Wednesday.
 
 Two other locations along the 42km route —at Siddhivinayak Temple in Prabhadevi and on the return leg close to the finish at Flora Fountain—also have to contend with metro work, though Hugh Jones, the event race director, made light of it posing any hurdles to competitors. “The course is the same as last year. The road has narrowed down at the 23-km mark near the  , but enough space is there for the runners to go through unhindered,” said Jones, a former marathon runner from Britain who has been associated with the event right from its inaugural edition in 2004. “There is enough road space at Siddhivinayak while Flora Fountain on DN Road is close to the finish line and there won’t be bunching of runners. Besides there is a designated lane for the elites towards the finish so they should be completely unimpeded for the last 800 to 900 metres,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, Asian Heart Institute, the event’s medical partners for 12 years, have also stepped up preparations to ensure they are ready to intervene should their services be summoned at any point. “This marathon is one of the safest marathons to run in,” said Dr. Nilesh Gautam, medical director, Asian Heart Institute. “This year, we have 600 volunteers with us. For the first time we will be training 60 volunteers to perform CPR (Cardiopulmonary resuscitation). We have also trained some policemen who will be participating in the 7K Dream Run.”
 
 
