INDORE: Indore bench of   on Thursday issued notices to the district administration,   (IMC) and others on a petition challenging the move to convert land near historic   into temporary trenching ground.

 A division bench of Justice PK Jaiswal and Justice Virendra Singh, issued the notice on a petition filed by one Chandresh Khandelwal. The petitioner alleged that the move to convert the land into a garbage collection yard for the locality violated laws aimed at securing historic monument and was creating a health risk for the residents nearby.
 
 The court has also issued notices to the IMC, administration, departments of culture and archaeology. Petitioner’s advocate Manish Yadav said that the court will hear the matter next week.
 
 The IMC had developed a temporary trenching ground on the land near the Lalbagh Palace collecting garbage from the colonies in the vicinity and then later shifting them to the main trenching ground on the Indore Bypass.
 
 Yadav said the move was in violation to norms laid down to protect the Lalbagh Palace. The archaeology department had issued a notification in 2006 banning any kind of construction or mining activity at a distance of 200 meters of the monument.
 
 The department had written to the district administration and the IMC against the move, but the communication was ignored.
 
 The dump yard also posed a grave health risk for the residents of the locality, who had staged several protests in this regard.
 
 The tourism department had also raised objections since they are constructing a rail coach restaurant nearby.
 
 IMC officials had been claiming that the site was being used only as a temporary dumping ground for garbage, which is later shifted to trenching ground in Devguradia.
 Officials said that they were in a process to install portable garbage collection machine in the area.
 
 The Lalbagh Palace was one of the palaces of the Holkar dynasty. It’s construction work was started by Tukoji Rao Holkar (1844 - 1886) and completed by Shivaji Rao Holkar (1886 - 1903) in 1890. Tukoji Rao Holkar (1903 - 1926) was the last king to reside in this palace.
 
