BHUBANESWAR: BJD president and chief minister   on Sunday exhorted party leaders to work wholeheartedly for the organization. Addressing block and district-level observers here at the end of a workshop, Naveen set two key agenda for the party workers with an eye on the 2019 assembly and general elections - to counter the false propaganda by the opposition parties and to popularize the welfare programmes of the state government.

 The two-day workshop for observers was organized by the party to effectively carry out two major people-connect programmes - 'ama goan ama vikash' for rural areas and 'ama sahar ama unnati' for urban areas. "It (BJD) is your party and you should work single-mindedly for its success," Naveen told the workshop that was attended by around 600 leaders.
 
 With an aim for horizontal expansion of the party, the ruling dispensation has decided to form ward-level committees involving people from various walks, both in urban and rural areas. A BJD leader said the move aims to counter the 'mo booth..sabuthu majboot', a programme by the BJP to strengthen its base in all 36,000 booths across the state.
 
 While interacting with the block and district-level observers, Naveen said he would review the reports of the block-level observers and also assured them of holding similar interactions in future.
 
 Emphasizing on the use of social media for better communication among cadres and to educate people about the good works done by the state government, Naveen enquired whether the leaders are using WhatsApp, Twitter and Facebook.
 
 Though he did not take the name of any opposition party in his speech, the strategy to check the saffron surge in Odisha remained the key point of the discussion, a BJD insider said. 
 
 "The purpose of the workshop was to enlighten the observers on issues they will take up while visiting the wards. Altogether 21 topics were discussed in the two-day workshop and we have finalized organization plan for all 314 blocks and 113 urban local bodies," said BJD vice-president  .
 
 The topics which were discussed on the second day of the workshop include strategy to be adopted in building organization, coordination among frontal organizations, responsibilities of observers, media relation, social media and contribution of the BJD government for development of western Odisha, tribal communities, women, students and youths. 
 
 The BJD president came out with the people outreach programmes after the party's below-the-expectation performance in February panchayat elections.
 
