It cannot be denied that   is on the rise. Chew on the following statistics sourced from the 
 : 

 - Somewhere between 5.74 per cent and 8.82 per cent of schoolchildren in India are obese.
 - In urban south India, 21.4 per cent boys and 18.5 per cent girls aged 13-18 are either overweight or obese.
 
 Worldwide, in the year 2000, the International Obesity Task Force (IOTF) declared about 10 per cent of children aged 5-17 (about 155 million) were overweight, out of which two to three per cent (30 to 45 million) were obese. 
 
 Among the reasons for childhood obesity were ubiquitous processed foods, fast foods, and foods that don’t unfortunately love your child back as much as your child loves them. Add that to the fact outdoor activities have been replaced by digital ones, and you have a scenario where children are eating more calories than they can expend. But while we’ll get into ways of getting your child have better nutrition in subsequent articles, I just wanted to use this space to clear some misconceptions surrounding children and weight gain:
 
 
 
 There’s this notion that a chubby baby is a healthy one. But a baby only needs so much nutrition for growth and development, and the more fat a child stores, the greater the tendency to store fat as the child gets older. Keep checking in with your paediatrician to make sure the baby isn’t biting off more than he can chew.
 
 
 
 Overweight children are far more likely to grow up to be overweight adults. Comprehensive studies over the years have made clear the linkage between   and corresponding obesity in adults. Likewise, research has also shown the link between overweight children and sick adults.
 
 
 
 Not all of it is bad news, though. Overweight children - especially overweight younger children - can grow into their height. Which means that if a child seems to be tipping the scales at a relatively young age, the chances are that as s/he gets taller, the weight gained will simply redistribute itself and even things out. This may not hold true for children who have already reached their full height, or close to it. Consult your paediatrician about a healthy, calorie-controlled diet.
 
 Which brings me to my last point. When it comes to childhood obesity, to eat or not to eat is not really the question. Because weight gain in children can never be countered with extreme diets or persistent criticism about being overweight. 
 
 Overweight children need both food and love, and a healthy dose of understanding. With good nutrition, exercise, and a lot of support, they can learn how to develop healthy eating habits and live happy, healthy lives.
 
 
 
 
 
 
