GURUGRAM: For many, the rainy season feels like day upon day of unpleasantly clammy heat, every step (and even non-step) bringing beads of sweat. But there are some days that make the monsoon all worthwhile, and Sunday was one of them.

 On Sunday, the skies over   and Delhi resembled an artist’s palette. Blues gave way to greys, purples made room for lilacs, and teals and turquoises tried to elbow each other out, even as enormous balls of white fluffy cumuli looked to blot out the sun. The clouds scampered and scudded here and there, threatening a downpour for much of the day until, late in the afternoon, the heavens finally opened.
 
 The rain was heavy and came down with an intensity thus far not seen this season. Old Gurgaon received more precipitation than the new city, but those on the other side of the highway weren’t about to complain. Certainly, the rain, lasting between 30 and 45 minutes, brought relief to Gurgaon residents, accompanied as it was by a cool breeze rather than the suffocating   which Gurgaonites have had to put up with for much of July.
 
 And even after the rain-bearing clouds had left (to be replaced by ones bearing no menace to anyone), the canvas remained the same. For those who love staring at the heavens, the evening gave them plenty of opportunity to do so, as patches of blue sky swapped space with grey, white and sun-bleached yellows and pinks. Even the sunset was to die for (as it often is after a day of monsoon magic).
 
 Mercifully, because it was a Sunday, the showers didn’t throw the traffic out of gear, simply because there weren’t enough cars on the roads to give rise to a typically weekday snarl so common in these parts (a cricket World Cup final in another part of the world may also have had something to do with the empty streets). Still, if it rains on Monday, expect the queues of barely-moving sedans and hatchbacks and buses and trucks to be back. The   Department has forecast more rain in the coming week. Expect daytime highs to be between 32C and 34C.
 
 Delhi also exprienced fresh spell of thundershowers that brought the down the maximum temperature to 36.4 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature remained at 26.5 degrees Celsius.
 
 
