HYDERABAD: The   is mulling cutting down   from 1,200 to 300 for  .
All   are required to serve in   for one year after completing their courses.
 
 There are about 1,200 PG medical students. Instead of appointing all of them for rural service for one year, the government has decided to take only 300 candidates as a cost cutting measure. It costs the government Rs 100 crore a year to pay their stipend. By reducing the number of appointments, it wants to bring down the financial burden on the state exchequer. Presently , all the doctors, who have completed their PG and PG diploma, are posted in government hospitals across the state including Gandhi and Osmania in Hyderabad. 
 
 However, most of them dodge the rural service rule and use their influence with authorities for getting posting in cities and towns. “There is no meaning in appointing them for one year as they don't want to work in rural areas,“ said a top official. Last year, nearly 1,200 PG students were appointed in government hospitals to meet the compulsory rule with a monthly stipend between Rs 38,000 and Rs 45,000.Officials have estimated that as per the Medical Council of India (MCI) norms the state requires only 300 senior resident doctors to maintain the quota of PG medical seats. As per the MCI norms, there should be four resident doctors for one professor, one associate professor and two assistant professors. They make up one unit. Based on these units, the MCI decides on the PG seats in medical colleges. “We need 300 seats to ensure that the PG medical quota is maintained,“ said Dr Karunakar Reddy, vice-chancellor of   of Health Sciences.
 
 According to officials, compulsory rural service was ma de mandatory by the state government in undivided AP. “This is only a state government rule. We can change it,“ officials said. They said only those candidates willing to work in rural areas should be appointed under compulsory service. “The government should fill up 250 vacant posts of assistant professors. We will welcome any decision to do way with compulsory service,“ said G Sriniavas, advisor to  .
 
