CHANDIGARH: A day after being appointed as   president of AAP, Sangrur   tried to reach out to two disgruntled senior leaders of his party – Bholath MLA   and former   Gurpreet Singh Waraich (Ghuggi). The two were reportedly not happy with the way party supremo Arvind Kejriwal appointed Mann as the new state president in Delhi on Monday.

 Mann told TOI, “They are not annoyed. Gurpreet and I have been together for two decades. He put his career at stake and worked hard for the party. When he was made the convener, I was the one to recommend his name. I remember I had said that take some load off my shoulders. Khaira too is an asset to the party. I just spoke to both of them. There was a time when H S Phoolka was a bit upset but now he is very much with the party and playing the role of leader of opposition. Khaira’s offer to resign has not been accepted.”
 
 Asked about infighting in the party, the MP said, “I am not part of any group and will take everybody along. For that matter, there are groups in every party – be it the Congress or BJP. The difference is that AAP is a party of equals and there is internal democracy. Aman Arora (co-president) and I, and Phoolka in the Vidhan Sabha, will play the role of a constructive opposition in the state.”
 
 The new state president said his first task would be to put in place a new state body in Punjab according to the new organizational structure. “I will be going to the volunteers to boost their morale to start afresh. If someone is upset, I am willing to go to his house to clear the differences,” he said.
 
 Mann said the new organizational structure would be simple and easy to understand. “The posts of convener, circle in charge and so on will be changed. Instead, we will have district presidents and district heads of the frontal organizations, besides in charge of assembly constituencies and block presidents. The new body will also accommodate more party workers as office-bearers,” he added.
 
 On the possibility of rehabilitating Waraich as he was learnt to be upset with the way he was replaced, Mann said the party would be willing to do what whenever he wants. “He too is a dedicated soldier of the party like me,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Mann said there has still not been any discussion on the party’s plans for the forthcoming municipal elections in four key cities of the state, besides the Gurdaspur by-election, which the party plans to contest. “I am still in Delhi and will discuss these issues in due course,” he said.
 
 Fissures were apparent in the state unit after party supremo Arvind Kejriwal took a meeting of the legislators from Punjab and announced Mann as president and Aman Arora as the co-president. While Khaira was hopeful of getting elevated to the post, Waraich was reportedly expecting a more ceremonious exit.
 
