HYDERABAD: Art director Dharma Rao alias Chinna, whoworkedfor several movies directed by Puri Jagannadh, appearedbefore the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the excise department for questioning in thedrug case at Abkari Bhavan, Nampally on Tuesday. The   wrapped up interrogation of Chinna in threehours. 

 The investigators reportedly askedhim about the drug consumption pattern in Tollywood andhis linkswiththe arrested   “We have corroborated the information providedby Chinna with what other Tollywood personalities, who appeared before him for questioning, disclosed. He cooperated well and gave some relevant information,” an SITofficial said. In a related development, actress   would appear before the SIT sleuths on Wednesday. 
 
 Charmee would be the seventh Tollywood personality to appear before the SIT. As per the directions ofthe High Court, SIT sleuths were planning to question Charmee between 10am and5pm. “Charmee Kaur is to appear before the SIT for questioning at 10.30am tomorrow,” the SIT said in an official release issued here. Excise sleuths said that if SITsleuthscannotfinish questioning by 5pm, they might summon the actress to appear again. Cops would have woman excise official during the questioning.
 
 “Even during the questioning of men from Tollywood, we alwayshad a woman officer present and the entire process has been videographed from the firstday,” director, enforcement,Akun Sabharwal said. Excise sleuths would not collect blood, hair or nail samples of Charmee as shedid not want to give them voluntarily. However, her reluctance to give the samples would be recorded in the case diary. 
 
 “Actor Navadeep also refused to give blood sample. We did not collect the samples and mentionedthesamein the case diary,” an SIT official said. SIT sleuths have also grilled businessmen Sourabh Banothu, Akula Rithikesh and   on Tuesday. “Based on the evidence gathered,we areconducting raids at multiple places and also questioning a few persons.
 
 The people who are being questioned areof variouswalksof life, not just film industry people,” the SITofficial said.   is scheduled to appear before the SIT sleuthson Thursday
 
