AHMEDABAD : With two months to go to the   polls, the state government late on Friday night transferred 61 IPS officers. DGP Geetha Johri continues to remain in-charge chief of the state police. The transfer list includes the promotion of four assistant superintendents of police (ASPs) to SP rank. Two SPs, Ashok Yadav and Deepankar Trivedi, have been raised to DIG rank.

 The most surprising transfers are those of two IPS officers — additional DGP (Surat range) Shamsher Singh and SP Surat district, Nirlipt Rai. Both of these officers were rushed to Surat after the 2016 hooch tragedy, to curb the liquor menace in the area. However, they have both been shunted out in just over a year. Shamsher Singh has been posted as additional DGP of State Crime Records Bureau (SCRB) and Rai has been placed in the State  ,  .
 
 The post of DIG, Gandhinagar range, which was vacant for long has filled with MA Chavda posted there. This post is considered sensitive as Gandhinagar range includes the Patidar strongholds of Mehsana and Kadi.
 
 Ahmedabad range also saw a change with Border range IGP Anilsinh Jadeja being posted here. Jadeja was at the helm of the investigation into the Naliya gang rape case. Kutch (west) SP Makrand Chauhan has been posted as SP in the central Gujarat district of Anand.
 
 Vipul Agarwal, a 2001 batch IPS officer, has been shifted from Gujarat Medical Services Corporation Ltd to DIG administration (Ahmedabad). Incidentally, Agarwal, an accused in the   encounter case, spent about four years in jail before he was granted bail in the encounter case.
 
 Two Patidar IPS officers — H G Patel and Piyush Patel — have also been transferred. While DIG H G Patel has finally got out of the State Intelligence Bureau in Gandhinagar and been posted as DIG sector-1 in Surat, Piyush Patel has been made Border range IGP from Sector-1, JCP of Ahmedabad city. IGP Abhay Chudasama has been posted as IGP Vadodara range, in place of G S Malik who has been posted as IGP Surat range.
 
 Geetha Johri relieved of civil defence
 
 In-charge DGP Geetha Johri has been relieved of the additional charge of DGP, Home Guards and Civil Defence. DGP   is the new DGP, Home Guards and Civil Defence.
 
 Surat (crime) DCP post still vacant
 
 Even after transfer of 61 IPS officers, the post of DCP (crime), Surat, has been kept vacant. Sources said the post may be filled later.
 
 Ahmedabad traffic dept finally gets IGP
 
 Ahmedabad range IGP, 1993 batch IPS officer Neerja Gotru, has been posted as IGP traffic department. 
 
 It has been nearly two years since that the post of IGP traffic has been been filled with a regular posting. 
 
 Till now, DCP Sudhir Desai was in charge of the post. The city has recently seen an increase in traffic problems.
 
 State traffic branch gets addl DGP
 
 The 1983 batch IPS officer Vipul Vijoy has been posted as additional DGP State Traffic Branch (STB). Surat police commissioner Manoj Shashidharan had additional charge of the post.
 
 
