MUMBAI: The   sentenced three share brokers who allegedly cheated a   broker to two years’   and also directed them to pay a compensation of Rs 10 lakh each to the complainant.

 The court told Jayesh Doshi, Dharmesh Solanki and Hiten Raichura to “pay jointly or severally compensation of Rs 10 lakh each within three months, and in default to suffer one year’s rigorous imprisonment”. The sessions court altered an earlier sentence from simple imprisonment to rigorous imprisonment after the accused challenged their earlier conviction by a lower court.
 
 The court also cancelled bail applications of Doshi and Solanki and told them to surrender before police. Raichura, a Borivli resident, has been shown as absconding accused.
 
 The three got close to Nimish Shah, a registered Sebi broker, and assured him good business in 1999. They said they had started J D Investments and Raichura Investments, and presented a proposal to Shah. They allegedly sold 6,720 forged and bogus shares of Agrevo India, Rotla India Ltd, Bayer (India) Ltd, Shriram Honda, Silver Line Industries, KEC International, worth Rs 8.32 lakh in May 1999. But four months later, the companies returned the shares to Shah stating that they were duplicates or signatures were not matching.
 
 “When Shah called up the three, they avoided him. Shah had to purchase shares from the market at a higher price, which cost him Rs 11.22 lakh, so he decided to teach them a lesson,” said Shah’s advocate, Sharmin Borcarro. Shah filed a private complaint under CrPC 156 (3) before the 33rd metropolitan magistrate, which directed MRA Marg police to register an FIR. Police then booked the three under IPC sections for cheating, forgery, breach of trust and criminal conspiracy. They challenged the prosecution at various levels but courts dismissed their attempts.
 
 “The 16th metropolitan magistrate, after examining all material evidence and witnesses, convicted the accused to one year’s simple imprisonment. They challenged the conviction, while the state sought enhancement of punishment. We stated that we had suffered a loss and we should get compensation, after which the court considered it, altered the conviction, and told the accused to compensate us,” said Bocarro.
 
 
