PATIALA: A Venu Prasad, principal secretary (power), assumed charge as the chairman- cum-managing director(CMD) of the   State Power Corporation Limited ( ) on Thursday, replacing former technocrat K D  , who had resigned from the post on Wednesday.

 "I am leaving the corporation after putting in eight years and six months of service, as a satisfied professional who contributed to making the power utility a more people oriented entity," said Chaudhary, who was due to vacate the office in February but was given two-year extension by the previous SAD-BJP combine government.
 
 During Chaudhary's tenure, Punjab had become power surplus after commissioning of two private sector thermal plants in the state. Speaking about the criticism that PSPCL had to face for having shut down its public sector thermal units, Chaudhary said they had taken a more professional approach and started buying power from sources where it was available at cheaper rates.
 
 He said there had been problems with billing and redressal of complaints. "We had got third party audits conducted of the complaints and sent the reports to the state government periodically. While we managed to streamline the complaint redressal system, a lot is yet to be done still," added Chaudhary.
 
 "I brought professionalism in the working of PSPCL and got huge support from officials and staffers. We succeeded in bringing down the aggregate and transmission losses (AT&C) to 14.643%, which was the lowest in the country. We also managed to upgrade the transmission and distribution networks and ensured that 24-hour power supply was given even to the remotest of the villages," he said, adding that at the time he joined the PSPCL there used to be six-hour power cuts and 70% of the grids were overloaded.
 
 Prasad is an   officer of the 1991-batch and has done MBA (finance) and MA in public policy from the US. He was the deputy commissioner of Faridkot and   and the commissioner of excise and taxation.
 
 Meanwhile, a delegation of PSEB Engineers' Association lead by Baldev Singh Sran met Prasad on his first day in office and assured the new CMD of full cooperation for providing better services to the consumers and to improve efficiency of PSPCL.
 
