KOLKATA: The blackout of the   of channels on Manthan has sparked off a churning in the cable business. While 4000 subscribers are believed to have quit Manthan following a switchover to other MSO platforms by their cable operators over the last fortnight, the blackout has also broken an unwritten no-poaching agreement between some MSOs.

 The Manthan blackout ended on Thursday, minutes before the second ODI between India and England. But even before the Star Sports channels returned on Manthan screens, several cable operators had switched loyalty. Behala resident Bumba Ghosh ­ a Manthan subscriber - had been pestering his cable operator to get the channels back. A day before the channels returned on Manthan, he found that his settop box had been changed and the MSO logo at the bottomright corner of his screen now read Siticable. “My operator told me that he has switched platform. I don't mind as long as I have all the channels," said Ghosh. Several other operators in north and central Kolkata have moved as well.
 
 But the number eventually shifting platform will be very small. It is not easy to move to another MSO within a short span of time, pointed out industry sources. “The technology is such that the process becomes time-consuming, especially for those with a large consu mer base. So, the signals may be fetched from another MSO, but acomplete transfer will involve changing the set-top box, which is not easy,“ said Mrinal Chatterjee, director of  , an MSO.
 
 An unofficial consortium of four MSOs -Manthan, Siticable,   and   -had a no-poaching agreement that was broken during the last fortnight, some industry insi ders claimed. The majority of Manthan cable operators shifting loyalty have moved to Siticable along with their subscribers while some have shifted to Hathway. GTPL has apparently received no new subscribers.
 
 Manthan, which claimed it has lost less than 1% of its subscriber base, is contemplating legal action against operators who have dumped their signal. “As per the   rule, they ne ed to serve a 21-day notice to subscribers, informing them and us about their decision to quit," said Sudip Ghosh, director, Manthan. He added that an agreement between MSOs did exist that has been broken. “One of the MSOs has been offering a lower rate per subscriber to cable operators. This price undercutting is unethical and sad. Even more unfortunate is the fact that this price benefit is not going to be passed on to the subscribers," added Ghosh.
 
 Siticable, on the other hand, claimed that only operators with access to both Manthan and Siticable signals have switched. “Some have changed over to our signal to keep subscribers happy. They have neither sought our permission nor informed us. But the number is not a large one,“ said Suresh Sethia, Siticable director.
 
 Hathway , on the other hand, denied knowledge of operators shifting to their platform. “We are not aware of this. It is a free market and subscribers are free to choose their platform. They have the option of moving to DTH platforms as well,“ said Amit Nag, director, Hathway.
 
