SHILLONG: People from all walks of life celebrated the 2579th  , marking the  ,  , or death, of  , the  , in the city on Wednesday. Devotees thronged the Buddha Mandir at Forest Colony, one of the oldest shrines in northeast India, having been set up in 1935. 

 East Khasi Hills deputy commissioner P S Dkhar hoisted the World Buddhist flag at the shrine to mark the beginning of the celebration. 
 
 Devotees visited other Buddha temples in the city and lit candles and incense sticks, prayed and offered sweets and fruits before the statue of Gautama Buddha. Sermons on the life and teachings of Buddha were delivered by the bhikshus (monks), which were attended by followers in larger numbers.
 
 Large number of people waited patiently for their turn to partake in 'khichdi prasad', prepared of rice, lentil and mixed vegetables, at the Buddha Mandir. An early morning procession through the main thoroughfares of the city marked the beginning of the observation of Buddha Jayanti.
 
 "Lord Buddha preached non-violence, equal love and universal brotherhood. Let all of us faithfully follow his teachings, which is for love for all, hate for none and non-violence as a way of life," a monk at the shrine said.
 
 "As part of its services to the community and general public, the Shillong Buddhist Association has established institutions of social service like the Buddha Vidya Niketan Lower Primary and Secondary School, Pali and Sanskrit Tol (traditional centre of knowledge), Dharmasala and guest house," pointed out a member of the Association.
 
 Arya Bangsha Bhikkhu, high priest at the Shillong Buddha Mandir, expressed hope that the festival would spread the Buddha's message of love, peace and compassion. "Gautama Buddha is a friend to each and every human being on earth," the young monk declared. On the other hand, several other Buddha shrines in the city, including the Tibetan Buddhist Monastery atop the Lumparing Hills and the Buddha Temple at Jhalupara area drew hundreds of people who paid homage to the Buddha.
 
 
