MUMBAI: Land and security-related issues seem to be the top two concerns of people of Maharashtra as the state government's   received maximum queries and complaints about these. The   received 5,312 grievances and queries related to the urban development department's town planning and local bodies’ divisions, followed by 4,744 about the  , data obtained under the   show.

 Among cities, people from Pune, Thane, Nashik top the list in using the portal to raise issues, shows the data obtained by RTI activist Chetan Kothari on January 6, 2016. 
 
 In Mumbai, most people had used the portal to express grievances over policing. 
 
 Interestingly, the portal has received a large number of queries and grievances related to rural development, cooperatives and power sectors, which, experts say, indicates people from rural areas are making the best use of IT to avoid trips to Mumbai and Pune.
 
 Around 82% of the issues were resolved, according to the data revealed under RTI Act.
 
 The department-wise data suggested that a larger number of complainants are satisfied with the online grievance redressal system. However, city or district-wise statistics shows that a majority of people are dissatisfied with the answers and assistance given by staff of the online help desk. 
 
 The portal was set up by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis a couple of years ago to help people avoid making frequent visits to Mantralaya and other departments located in Mumbai, Pune and other major cities. “When satisfaction level will increase, automatically this objective will get achieved,” said Kothari.
 
 In Mumbai, 98% of complaints regarding the civic body are pending: one out of the total 47 complaints has been resolved. Kothari explained there’s a possibility that either complainants or the administration concerned might have got the issue resolved at BMC level, so the portal shows pending. Mumbai has the lowest number of complaints against the civic body as people directly approach BMC offices.
 
