KOLKATA: The tunnel-boring machine (TBM) is passing below   at top speed — almost 22-25 metre a day. And the good news is, the buildings that had been marked ‘unsafe’ earlier haven’t shown any signs of distress so far. The engineers now expect the   to reach the Mahakaran station site in record time.

 “By Tuesday morning, the TBM will cross the Brabourne Road flyover stretch. The flyover will be thrown open to traffic after that,” said deputy commissioner (traffic) V Solomon Nesakumar. The project does not need any more traffic restriction. But if any diversions are required, it will be informed in advance, he added.
 
 “Not a single crack has appeared in any of the buildings we have kept under watch. Meanwhile, we will keep reinforcing the structure of other unsafe buildings. Evacuation notices have been served to 44 and 45 Armenian Street buildings for structural reinforcement of these buildings,” said Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation ( ) spokesperson A K Nandy. The residents of these two buildings will be evacuated for four days, from July 15 to July 19.
 
 The residents of 42, Strand Road, who are now staying at a hotel, will return to their homes after lunch on Wednesday. So will be the traders. Residents of 2 Raja   will also return but they need to be evacuated for the second time some time in July end when the second TBM starts moving. The machine will be moving directly below the structure. But there won’t be any traffic restriction at that time.
 
 However, the residents of 111, N S Road will have to stay at a hotel for a few more days as work for structural reinforcement is going on in full force. Meanwhile, Afcons engineers are keeping a watch on minutest structural distress and soil settlement. They will keep recording the safety parametres of the building for next one and a half months.
 
 The repairing, reinforcement of building structures and periodic evacuation will be carried out simultaneously. “The initial resistance we faced during the building-condition survey is no more there. Now, people understand that we are not there to evict the residents. They also understand that our work will stabilize the buildings and extend the life of the buildings by another 100 years,” said a KMRC official.
 
