MUMBAI: The   rejected model-actor Kanishka Sodhi’s plea for   of Rs 50,000 from her  . 

 A division bench of Just-ice Rajendra Savant and Justice Sadhana Jadhav upheld the   that at the interim stage with regard to the fact that Kanishka was also working and able to “maintain and sustain herself, she would not be entitled to the grant of maintenance”. 
 
 Kanishka claimed that Gurpreet earned Rs 1 lakh a month besides “also earning huge amount by doing films”. The HC bench referred to the the family court’s conclusion that nether Kanishka not Gurpreet had produced any documentary evidence about their remuneration. “It is only after evidence is led that it can be decided whether Kanishka is entitled to maintenance,” the family court had said. The HC agreed. “Having regard to the facts and circumstances, which have been relied upon by the principal judge of the family court (its order) does not merit any interference,” said the HC bench.
 
 The couple got married in 2005. Five years later, Gurpreet filed for divorce. In her application for maintenance before the family court, Kanishka claimed till date, Gurpreet had not provided any money for her maintenance and she was dependent on her parents. She also filed an application under the Criminal Procedure Code claiming Gurpreet was neglecting to maintain her. On his part, Gurpreet claimed that till 2010, he was working with a leading television production company, but now worked as and when he got an assignment. He also alleged that due to the dispute with his estranged wife, he was not getting any work. 
 
 The HC referred to evidence that revealed that Kanishka was working as an actor since she was 20 years old. The records also showed that Gurpreet had spent on Kanishka’s parents when they were staying in his flat and also spent on other expenses, including money to maintain the couple’s pet. 
 
 The HC dismissed Kanishka’s plea for interim maintenance, but added that the decision with regards to the final order on maintenance would be as per law.
 
