NEW DELHI: Having stacked the wooden desks at one end of Room 101, the students — around 100 of them — lie sprawled among the blankets and pillows on the floor as others look on encouragingly. This unique protest, the students hope, will focus the attention of the authorities at GB Pant Government Engineering College on the many lacks of the institution, among them good infrastructure and hostels. 

 Graffiti on the outer walls of the college pleads: All we need is a campus.
 
 For three days now, the students of the college at Okhla have slept in the classroom, passing the hat around to pay for meals and other necessities. “It is part of our struggle to demand better facilities,” said Manish Singh, who is in his fourth year of studying computer science at the institute. “Our classes are in terrible condition with peeling paintwork and poor electrical wiring.”
 
 Reminding that the college started in an abandoned hostel building in 2007, Singh pointed out that the dormitories were repurposed as classrooms and so didn’t have the acoustics required for academic pursuits.
 
 On Wednesday, Delhi deputy chief minister had mentioned the college in his budget speech and promised to increase the student strength. “How can he announce an increase in seats when the 860 incumbent students of the college do not have proper facilities?” asked an incredulous student as others nodded assent. Girl students complained that the college did not even proper washrooms for them.
 
 One of the biggest grouse is the lack of hostel accommodations. Pradeep Kumar, a first year mechanical engineering student, lives as a paying guest, 6km from the college. “I pay an annual rent of around Rs 70,000. Add to this the college fee of Rs 35,000. This is hard on my farmer father,” said the 20-year-old from Kota, Rajasthan.
 
 Apoorva Saxena talked of how tired he was by the end of the day, commuting to and from Ghaziabad. The third year mechanical engineering student said, “I travel to college every day by bus or Delhi Metro because I cannot afford to pay rent and stay close by.” But like for many others, commuting is eating into his study time. “I worry I won’t get time to prepare for my Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE) exams,” he said.
 
 Travelling is particularly hard on girls. Besides the time they waste, they also face security issues. “It takes me three hours to reach home, so I leave as soon as my classes end in the evening,” said Deeksha Palliwal, a second year student.
 
 Repeated attempts to contact Professor S Maji, college principal, for his response to the students’ grouses proved futile.
 
 
