THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Justice G Sivarajan commission, which probed into the solar scam that had shaken the Oommen Chandy-led UDF government, is expected to submit its final report to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday.

 The tenure of the commission will expire on Wednesday, and it is learnt that the commission decided to submit the report a day before. Sources in CMO said Justice Sivarajan has sought an appointment with CM on Tuesday afternoon. The commission was set up in October, 2013, by the then chief minister Oommen Chandy after the solar scam snowballed into a big controversy.
 
 The scam was that a company floated by Saritha S Nair and her partner Biju Radhakrishnan had du ped several influential people by offering them to install solar power units. The allegations became serious when the links Saritha had with the chief minister's office and other   leaders were exposed.
 
 Saritha had allegedly used her links in the CM's office to establish her business and also used the services of CM's personal staff to influence people. She had also alleged that she had personally met Oommen Chandy and handed over a cheque to the chief minister's relief fund as a contribution from her company.
 
 The scam had badly haunted Chandy, who had to expel two of his personal staff members -Tenny Jopan and   and his gunman Salim Raj, whom the police had found links with Saritha.
 
 The names of several UDF leaders, including the then ministers A P Anil Kumar, K B Ganesh Kumar, Adoor Prakash, and   mad, and leaders like K C Venugopal, Hibi Eden and Mons Joseph, were dragged into the controversy for their alleged links with Saritha.
 
 The commission had examined 127 witnesses, including Chandy. It had a detailed examination of Chandy for 14 hours first and he was again called five times. About 15 various political leaders, including former ministers, were examined. Though Saritha spent a few months in prison, she got out on bail by settling almost all cheating cases. Her partner Biju Radhakrishnan is still in prison, sentenced to life imprisonment for murdering his first wife
 
