VISAKHAPATNAM: Little Kaamya Karthikeyan’s adventure started in the womb. When faced by road blocks, her mother had to trek all the way up to Vaishnodevi in Jammu. By the time she was 7 years old, Kaamya had already done high altitude  , Roopkund, Chandrashila, Kedarkantha and so on — all ranging from 11,000 ft to 16,500 ft. At 8 years, she is now going to the   (18,200 ft) to see off her father, who is part of an Everest expedition team. She would be the youngest girl from   and second youngest from the world to reach the base camp.

 Kaamya was introduced to the world of trekking and nature when on a baby sling, she would be carried by her parents on their numerous treks. By the age of 3 years, she was trekking in the Sahyadris and later braved strenuous treks in Rajgad near Pune.
 
 The inclination and endurance for trekking and love for mountains was spotted right from her early childhood. As a birthday present, she even requested her father to organise a trek for her and her friends on Dolphin Hill. That was her licence to hit the Himalayan trails, undertaking four treks in the last one year. She climbed her first summit to Chandrashila at 12,000 ft in May 2015 at the age of 7 years and scaled higher altitude in the subsequent three treks in the Himalayas, completing two back-to-back treks through inhospitable terrain to Har Ki Dun (11,500 ft) and Kedarkantha (12,850 ft) in May 2016 and the arduous trek to Roopkund lake at 16500 ft in October 2016. He mother Laavanya, a teacher and an enthusiastic trekker herself, had accompanied Kaamya in her trekking expeditions and would come along to the Everest Base Camp as well.
 
 “I want to accompany my father as high as I can on his Everest expedition to wish him the best and I am confident of doing it. I was interested in this trek since I came to know in 2014 that my father is preparing to summit the Everest,” said the class IV student of Navy Children School. “For my upcoming Everest Base Camp trek, I am walking and running 14 kilometres daily with a heavy backpack simulating the real trek besides,” adds Kaamya.
 
 In her upcoming adventure in April, Kaamya will be trekking from Jiri, the last road head, all the way to the Everest Base Camp in Nepal. This two-week long trek will see her climb from 6,250 ft to 18,200 ft. This is the long route taken by world’s first Everest summiteers Tenzing Norgay and  . The trail passes through an entire spectrum of landscapes from the grassy terrai to dense forests to green meadows and finally to the arid and rocky reaches of higher Himalayas, unfolding the beauty of the mountains in all its grandeur. Nowadays, almost all trekkers and climbers fly to Lukla and commence their short trek to the Everest Base Camp.
 
 So, what’s it that interests Kaamya the most in her treks? “I simply love to walk amidst colourful nature, the hills, green forests and flowers, white snow below and blue sky above. And I love to make new friends in the course of my trekking,” quips Kaamya, who wants to be a forest officer when she grows up.
 
 But, the little trekker is not going to stop at the base camp. “My next target is Stok Kangri and Mount Kilimanjaro and of course Mount Everest after a few years,” says Kaamya.
 
 Not only is she an avid mountain trekker but also accomplished in swimming, cycling, running marathons, Carnatic classical music and Bharatnatyam as well as western piano. “Recently, she completed her intermediate snow skiing course in Gulmarg and was judged the first ranker in the course. Kaamya has also performed consistently in academics and has performed well in all Olympiad examinations, spellbee and so on. We are supportive of her treks and would welcome help from any sponsor for her EBC expedition,” said Kaamya’s mother.
 
