SRINAGAR: J&K chief minister   on Saturday said that only PM   can resolve the Kashmir issue and extricate Kashmiris from the ongoing crisis.

 The Mehbooba Mufti-led PDP-BJP coalition government has been fighting rising militancy and widespread violent protests in Kashmir since last year following the killing of Hizbul commander Burhan Wani.
 
 Speaking at the inauguration of a flyover in Jammu, Mufti said, “I say today with authority and I know, I will be criticised for it. But if anyone can find a solution to the Jammu & Kashmir problem, it is PM Narendra Modi. He has a strong mandate; whatever decision he takes, the country will support him“.
 
 “If anyone can pull us out of the sticky situation we are in,“ she reiterated, “it is Prime Minister Modi.“
 
 Taking an indirect dig at former PM Manmohan Singh, she said, “Before Modi a Prime Minister had also de sired to go to Pakistan for over 10 years. He wanted to see his home there. He also could have tried to end the confron tation between the two coun tries and bring J&K out of this unfortunate situation, but he had no courage to do that.“
 
 Mufti lauded Modi's visit to Lahore on December 25, 2015, and said it was “a sign of strength.“
 
 She gave credit to former PM A B Vajpayee and her father, former CM Mufti Sayeed for initiating the dialogue for peace in J&K in 2002.“They tried their best to bring Kashmir out of this unfortunate situation,“ she said, recalling that Vajpayee implemented a ceasefire along Indo-Pak border, Advani held talks on Kashmir and the NDA government opened the roads between the two countries via LoC.
 
 She pointed out that militancy in Kashmir had declined during that period and there was peace on the border. “These were not small developments. But unfortunately Mufti was out of the government and Vajpayeeji left, and the process came to a grinding halt,“ she said.
 
 Blaming the then UPA government at the Centre and the state government for not carrying forward the dialogue, she said, “There was pent-up lava and it started to come out during the street protests in 2008, 2009 and 2010. That lava has now spread in the Valley and we are facing it“. 
 
 
