General Manager of Monday night   Kurt Angle kicked off the show in New Jersey and announced that Braun Strowman shattered his elbow during the   tour of UK and underwent a surgery and he may be out of action for over six months. Angle went on to say Strowman had set his eyes on the universal title, but with him out of action, RAW exclusive pay-per-view Extreme Rules will feature a fatal-five way main event match between Seth Rollins, Samoa Joe, Finn Balor,   and   to determine the number one contender to face Universal Champion Brock Lesnar.

  
  
 Reigns confronted Angle saying this is his yard and he beat the Undertaker and put Strowman in an ambulance and he is the only one you can beat Lesnar. Balor came out to proclaim he never lost the Universal title. Joe's music hit and he stated he is going to win the fatal-five way before being interrupted by Wyatt and finally by Rollins who went after Joe. Wyatt went after Balor and Reigns went after Wyatt and the lone man standing was 'The Demon' Finn Balor. 
 
 Angle then made the match with Rollins set to face Wyatt and Reigns was pitted against Balor. 
 
 
 
 
 After couple of interventions from Cesaro and  , Jeff hit the Twist of Fate followed by the Swanton Bomb to pick up the victory.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 After possibly injuring herself when falling from the ring apron (hamstring) Sasha Banks looked in trouble and a hurried finish to the match meant Fox hit the scissors kick on Banks to pick up a surprise victory.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Dean Ambrose kicked out of the Skull-Crushing Finale, before Maryse tried to protected her husband The Miz against a top rope elbow from Ambrose but he went for the move. Maryse distracted the referee allowing Miz to try and hit a low blow on Ambrose, but Ambrose blocked and proceeded a low blow on Miz in full view of the referee and Ambrose was disqualified. Miz won the match but Ambrose remained the Intercontinental match.
 
  
  
 Alexa Bliss and Bayley got in to a confrontation after Bayley asked for a rematch for the RAW Women's Championship and Bliss got the better of the exchange with a kendo stick strike on the former Women's Champion.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The team of Neville and TJP picked up the victory with TJP pinning Gallagher with the detonation kick after Neville grabbed Gallagher's leg not allowing 'The Gentleman' to hit the running corner drop kick on TJP.
 
  
  
 Angle announced stipulation for RAW Women's championship between Bliss and Bayley at Extreme Rules - Kendo Stick on a Pole match 
 
 
 
 
 Reigns was banged up and it became worse after hitting the steel post hard but he managed to overcome a determined Balor and countered the Coup de Grace before hitting the spear on Balor to notch up the victory.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 After a failing in the tag team turmoil match the previous RAW, Goldy turned on his good friend and tag partner R-Truth and laid waste to Truth. 
  
 
 
 
 Titus Brand continued to roll on with Titus O'Neal mocking Enzo and Cass's entrance hyping Apollo Crews vs Enzo, but he found out that the sanctioned match was between Titus and Big Cass. Cass earned the victory with a big boot before Crews hit an Enzogiri on Enzo while he was trying to take a selfie. 
 
 
 
 
 An incredible main event was interrupted by Samoa Joe and Wyatt and Joe teamed up to punish Rollins before Wyatt hit Sister Abigail on Joe and on Rollins to stand tall in the middle of the ring 
 
  
  
 
