NEW DELHI: On a day the   government in UP took a bouquet of decisions to improve   supply, Union power minister   said a White Paper was needed to expose the “deep rot” of the past 15 years in the state's  .

 “Some of the statistics which came out in last two weeks are mind-boggling and terrible. I cannot even share it with you... Some of the figures and statistics that have come out, have strengthened my feeling that we should come out with a White Paper on state of affairs in UP so that the people know that deep rot that has been set into the system for the past 15 years,” Goyal said after launching a scheme to monitor rural feeders and 'Urja Mitra' app for real-time tracking of blackouts.
 
 Coming a day after Goyal read the riot act to UP power department officials and asked them to shape up or ship out, his statement on Tuesday is a clear indication that the Centre will not cut any slack in improving power supply in the state.
 
 The state saw a high-decibel war of words between the BJP and Samajwadi Party over electricity supply. While the BJP claimed darkness all around, the SP hit back with claims of 24-hour supply to Varanasi, PM  's Lok Sabha constituency.
 
 But as TOI first reported on February 24, ground data collected by Prayas, a Pune-based independent NGO, indicated the SP government was making tall claims. Power supply in the week before and after voting in areas covered in the first two phases of assembly polls showed a sharp rise in the duration of blackouts after polls.
 
 No wonder, the BJP hit the ground running as soon as the results were out. Even before the party formed the government, the Centre prodded state officials to prepare the groundwork to sign the 'Power for All' document, which binds states to a roadmap for 24X7 power supply, first reported by TOI on March 15.
 
 While UP was one of the first states to sign up for the Centre's scheme to turn around financially distressed discoms, it refused to finalise the terms for signing the power for all document. It will now do so on April 14, Babasaheb Ambedkar's birth anniversary. Goyal expressed the hope that with the change of guard, the Centre will be able to make it a model state even in the area of power supply.
 
 “You see the power of good governance and change. The same officials, who until March 10 were unable to enter into that agreement, now it is clear that they were able to do it but possibly the political masters were holding them back,” Goyal said.
 
