NAGPUR: People can now withdraw up to Rs4,500 from ATMs after the   (RBI) instructed banks to raise limits, on Friday.

 The RBI has also directed banks to dispense this amount predominantly in Rs2,000 and Rs500 notes in hope to improve availability of Rs100 notes in the market. Experts and bankers in the city said the move will ease cash crunch, though not by much. The general public believe there is still considerable shortage of change even for Rs500 notes, while businessmen felt that cash crunch has now softened after several changes made by the government after  .
 
 The manager of   (PNB), Kingsway branch, said the bank has enough Rs100 notes to pay its customers over the counter. However, customers prefer the denomination to be disbursed through ATMs since its requirement is mainly for daily expenses, the manager said.
 
 An official of a major private sector bank in   welcomed the increase in the daily withdrawal limit at ATMs stating that the amount is more than enough to meet the people’s expenses.
 
 The ATMs at his branch still dispense Rs100 notes, along with Rs2,000 and Rs500 bill. The official said, “Though I believe that the RBI has merely recommended filling ATMs with larger denominations, banks are at discretion to allow withdrawals in Rs100. As far as liquidity in urban areas is concerned, cash availability is fairly strong. The situation in rural areas may not be as good.”
 
 “People are slowly transitioning over to digital payment methods and dependency on cash will reduce further. So, even if liquidity improves by introducing more Rs 500 notes into the market, it will have little effect on the people’s daily transactions,” said economist and chartered accountant Jayant Ranade.
 
 “Increasing the limit to Rs4,500 was much awaited and will meet the public’s daily requirement,” he added.
 
 Chairman of ICAI’s   Julfesh Shah believes the move will ease the cash crunch to some extent, but it will still take a few more months for the situation to become normal. “There should be a two-fold increase over the current withdrawal limit of Rs24,000 at cash counters if liquidity is to be improved,” said Shah.
 
 At the ground level, the success of this move is not met with much optimism. Vamsi Manne, an IIM student, said managing daily expenses is still difficult with Rs500 notes since cab drivers and food joints are apprehensive to provide change for services costing less than Rs200. “My daily expenses are not too much to begin with. It would be better if ATMs dispense Rs100 notes,” said Manne.
 
 Businessman Kailash Kotwani, however, said he has found that people now have enough change for Rs500 notes. “Further availability of the denomination will increase the people’s chances of finding change in their daily transactions, something that was very difficult with a Rs2000 note,” said Kotwani.
 
 
