
Assisting a journalist friend on a news story recently, I met the SP (Rural) for Greater Noida. Not something I’d normally write, but here before me stood  , a young IPS officer, confounding my expectations. Not only did she command respect with her clear and fluid intelligence, she wore her power lightly, radiating with it a beauty that did nothing to neutralise her authority. Forget dynastic actresses or pontificating elites, here was a daughter of the soil, succeeding on her brains and hard work, in work that mattered. 
 
 In a follow-up meeting, I learned a little about her life. One of four sisters, she was a 2nd place Bihar state topper and   graduate who passed the UPSC exam the first time. While her horizons opened drastically studying philosophy alongside engineering in college, she had earlier studied by lamplight in her village school. After joining the IPS, she’d served in Meerut, Moradabad and Mau before being posted to Greater Noida. 
 
 Throughout our discussion I noticed how the attending male staff member referred to her only as “Sir”. It happens, she said. It was habit, and also a compliment. In fact when her fellow officers wished to praise her, upon realising that her initial appearance belied her efficacy, they told her, with a level of surprise: “You’re not like a woman at all, you’re just like a man.” It was funny, she observed, how a male officer was always simply an ‘officer’, while she was a ‘lady officer’ until proven otherwise. “But I am an officer,” she went on, “And separately, my gender is female.” Neither was diminished by their separation. 
 
 Being feminine in traditional male territory is a tightrope walk. At risk of being undermined or objectified, successful women often internalise or project the patriarchal and divisive attitudes that surround them, a process that can see women becoming ‘more male than male, as if supposedly female qualities such as empathy are anathema to action, and feminine appearances — long hair, the most obvious example — are irreconcilable with decisive command. Or else, especially in politics, women who do succeed while being feminine exist as an adjunct to a man, as the wife, daughter, sister, mother or disciple. But to be independent, feminine and powerful, to be respected and do good work, to not be the product of privilege or patronage… that’s the dream! It can sometimes seem impossible in our land. Which is why seeing Sujata felt so good. If only there were more like her. 
 
 This in mind, I thought back to the UP elections. The   successfully contested, among other things, by highlighting the issue of ‘eve-teasing’ and sexual harassment. But while the intentions may be laudable, one cannot help but feel that the emphasis on guarding and protecting, on keeping women safe by way of prohibition, is a mentality fraught with long-term dangers, and ultimately at one with the mindset that causes harassment in the first place, since it accepts an essential helplessness at the heart of being a woman. 
 
 But what if women had more authority, on every level? What if women were given a greater presence outside, if they were more widely represented in the public sphere, if they were making laws, policing the streets, guarding our borders, working in government offices in greater numbers, would their presence itself not act as a corrective? If there were more women like SP Singh in all branches of society: strong, independent women who command and project authority, the need for external protection would surely diminish. 
 
 Maybe it’s a dream. How to make dreams happen? Education is the key. Yet education alone is not enough. I know of a village in Bihar where girls were removed from school after one ran away with a boy: education was too dangerous. Elsewhere, education is simply pointless if the girl is to be married off. For others, women are educated to improve their marriageability. What incentive, then, to coerce families to educate their girls seriously? 
 
 One word: reservation. Born out of foeticide and infanticide, women are the greatest minority around. But if we want to change society, what better way than guarantee real opportunities down the line, across all aspects of public life? If this happened, perhaps a majority of Indians wouldn’t consider their daughters’ lives as burdens to be managed, and wouldn’t consider their education as an afterthought. If there was a greater potential for good jobs with earning power and status, how much headway could be made toward creating a society that doesn’t need to act as protector of women but instead regulates itself? 
 
 It wouldn’t be easy. The 108th Constitution Amendment Bill, seeking 33% female reservation in the   and state assemblies, was introduced in 1996, reintroduced in 2008, passed by the Upper House in 2010 and has languished ever since. Left to the majority in charge, this simple bill, with a 15-year expiry date, will never happen. Many people are content with the status quo, but ultimately it diminishes us all. 
 
