An inspiring   of Chan Vekaria, which will surely change your outlook towards your health and body. We got Chan to share her master plan to lose weight:

  
  Chan Vekaria
 
  
  104.7 kgs (231 lbs )in July 2009
 
  
  43.9 kgs (97 lbs) to date
 
  
  My whole life I have been overweight. My mum recalls I started putting on weight at the age of 11. What she thought was just a little puppy fat turned into tipping the scales into obesity.
 
  I had several turning points. The first was when I was 16 years old and went to a theme park with my friends. I wasn’t able to go on the rides as I was worried the harness wouldn’t close.
 
  Before my wedding, I had an incentive to lose weight and look good for the big day. I lost over 2 stones in the lead up to the wedding. I put this back on and then some as soon as the wedding was over.
 
  Every time I went out to try and buy new clothes, it was a complete nightmare. I’d return home with nothing, as nothing in the popular high street stores fit me. I had vowed to lose weight every time but then ended up ordering clothes online from stores, which specialised in plus sized clothing. I'd cut the labels out as soon as the clothes arrived so I didn’t have to face looking at the size 24 tags.
 
  Every New Year I would have the same resolution; to lose weight and get healthy.
 
  The day I decided to change my life was the summer of 2009 when my daughter was five years old. I had avoided taking her to the park and other kids play areas as I was too embarrassed to be in public places. I used to ask my mum or sisters to take her and make up an excuse why I couldn’t go. That summer, I took her to our local park with my sister. It was such a hot day, but I refused to take off my jacket. I waited by a bench sweating while the two of them had a great time. I remember my daughter kept looking over at me and calling me over, but I refused to go. The look of disappointment on her face will stay with me forever. I felt like a failure as a mother. I was missing out on doing the fun things she wanted me to do with her because I was too lazy to do something about my weight. That was the day I decided enough was enough, I had to get serious about losing weight.
 
  
  Most of the time I have oats with either fruit or nuts. Overnight oats made with almond milk, chia seeds, honey and berries is my favourite at the moment.
 
  
  I love steamed vegetables, especially broccoli and spinach. So I prepare a big batch of steamed vegetables and have that with either quinoa, couscous, eggs or a baked sweet potato. I also have some form of protein so either cottage cheese, or a yogurt. At the weekends I make healthy roti by adding oats, flax seeds, and spinach into the dough. I have that with eggs or curry made from vegetables, soya or quorn.
 
  
  My family enjoy soya and quorn products so I try to add this in with any vegetable I am using that day to make a curry. I try to eliminate carbs in the evening so I will have a curry with cauliflower rice or salad. Cauliflower is my favourite vegetable right now. I have used it to make pizza bases, hash browns, Frittata and pattis.
 
  
  I have such a sweet tooth so I need to have healthy snacks when the sugar craving hits. My favourite is homemade banana ice cream or energy bars, which I make myself using dates and dry fruits to sweeten them up.
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  I enjoy all forms of exercise so I incorporate a mixture of weights, cardio, resistance and core strength training. My favourite workouts are boxing and weight training. My training schedule is broken down so I get at least two days break before working for the same muscle group again. I have 1 rest day a week where I do not exercise at all.
 
  
  I'm a real foodie. I have adapted many of my favourite foods so that I can still enjoy them but with lower fat ingredients. My favourite and easiest is baked oats with berries, nuts and honey.
 
  The low-calorie recipe I swear by is oat roti with flax seeds and spinach. This is far healthier than traditional roti and tastes better too.
 
  
  The biggest thing I have learnt is the importance of weight training. Many women shy away from this type of exercise because they feel they are not strong enough or they will end up looking masculine.
 
  This is definitely not the case. The more lean muscle we have, the more our bodies will burn even at rest. This is because, after each strength workout, our muscles need the energy to repair their fibres, meaning our metabolism can be raised for as long as 39 hours after the exercise was completed.
 
  I've learnt a lot through my journey and continually get asked how I did it. So I have created a site called SlimSumo.co.uk which is aimed at Asian women. The site offers healthy recipes, health and fitness tips and soon I'll have an exclusive membership programme. So watch this space. 
 
  
 
 
  I stay motivated by looking back on my progress and seeing how far I have come and what I have achieved. Not only do I look different physically, I feel different on the inside. I am so much more confident, happier and fitter. Being able to inspire others is also hugely motivating.
 
  
  Losing weight and getting fit is not a temporary thing, it’s a lifestyle change. I changed the way I cook and eat in 2009 when I started my weight loss journey; however, I will always continue to eat clean most of the time. I do of course have cheat meals and days off but I don’t let that stop me from reverting back to healthy eating.
 
  Exercise for me is a reward for my body, not a punishment for what I ate. It’s important to find exercises that you enjoy so that you are likely to keep doing them. If you see exercise as a chore, you are unlikely to persevere.
 
 
  
 
