CHANDIGARH: A new legislation on renting out property may soon govern Chandigarh. In what seems as a sign of the   finally deciding to dump the “outdated”   Act, 1949, the legal remembrancer of Chandigarh administration is said to be studying the Punjab Rent (Amendment) Act, 2013, and central government’s Model Tenancy Act to draft a legislative bill exclusively for the city.

 The proposed bill is aimed at reducing issues between   and landlords, and safeguarding the interests of both. A source in the UT administration said the Punjab Urban Rent Restriction Act, 1949, which is in force in Chandigarh at present, had lost its relevance and it was about time that a new law was introduced in the city.
 
 The plan is in the initial stages. Once the legislation proposal is finalized by the administration, its draft will be sent to the central government for a nod from Parliament.
 
 According to a senior official in the administration, the remembrancer is examining the two acts to ensure that the bill framed for Chandigarh covers all elements when it comes to guarding the interests of tenants and landlords.
 
 The bill, once finalized, is expected to keep a ceiling on rent, annual increases of rent, and security deposit. The rate of rent is likely to be linked with inflation. It is expected to have a clause to ensure there is no arbitrary eviction and it is expected to also spell out obligations for tenants and landlords. It may also have a provision for compensation in case the tenant does not vacate the property on time.
 
 To redress rent-related disputes, the Model Rent Act has made for setting up of rent authority\rent tribunal mandatory. The vice-president of   (CBM),  , who had raised the issue of having a new rent act in a recent held meeting with the Centre’s Home Minister Advisory Committee (HMAC), said having a new was the need of the house. “We need to have a legislation that is in sync with the present times,” he said.
 
 The general secretary of  , BS Sani, said the administration should make a balanced law. “It should be fair to tenants and landlords, both,” Sani said.
 
