RANCHI: Former chief minister   on Tuesday called the   a "maha chintan shivir of land grabbers" and claimed that it is being organised to loot the land of  , Moolvasis and the farmers of the state. 

 Soren, the leader of opposition and working president of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), mocked at the summit by calling it a "Gareeb Intimidation Summit" which has nothing to offer to the farmers and rural population of the state. 
 
 "We thank the government for organising this summit because the crores of rupees it has spent in security of the great gathering of land grabbers will give relief to Ranchi people from growing crime. The summit has nothing to offer to the villages," Soren said in his Kanke Road residence on Tuesday. 
 
 With two days left for the summit, Soren accused the Das government of working hand-in-glove with corporate houses against the tribal communities and farmers. "This government is in the grip of corporates. When these companies will begin capturing the land, this government will assist them," Soren said.
 
 Soren further claimed that amendments to the Tenancy Acts, new industrial policy and land allotment regulations by the   government reveal its "demonic face", which is out to destroy the socio-economic foundation of Jharkhand's tribal communities. 
 
 Soren, who held the chief minister's office briefly between 2013 and 2014, questioned the benefit of the summit when the future of several agreements with various corporate houses remains uncertain. When asked about industrial health during his tenure as CM, Soren said, "Though we did not ink mega MoUs, we were in favour of investments and developments. We did not have time. But what about the BJP, which ruled the state for 14 years?" 
 
 Toeing former CM  's line, Soren also turned down the Das government's invitation for attending the summit. He referred to the Section 144 that will be imposed around Khelgaon, the venue of the summit, and said, "This act itself shows the desperation of the government." 
 
 
