
V: When Srijit came to me with Rajkahini, he said he wanted to shoot it as a bilingual. He told me Ritu was doing the Bengali film and asked me if I would be part of the Hindi version. That time, I had decided to take a break. I thought he must have made the film. He did. When he came to me next, he didn’t have a script. I saw Rajkahini and was blown over. Ritu’s performance was unbelievable. When you see a great performance, it makes you think. So, even if I wouldn’t normally do a remake, I was game for it. 
 R: We know each other and it has always been a mutual admiration club.
 V: We met but I know her more through her work. I am happy I did what she has already done.
 
 
 
 R: I will be in Mumbai for the screening as Bhatt saab has invited me. I am looking forward to Vidya’s scintillating performance. She has been ruling the roost for a long time. 
 
 
 
 R: I was in Singapore when he called me to say, ‘This is Bhatt saab, my girl. I have never seen such a strong characterisation of a woman in Indian cinema.’ Coming from the maker of Saaransh and Arth, it was a huge compliment. I was told during the shoot, ‘Never giggle or gossip as you have to feel the pain’. We shot in extreme cold; for the gang of girls and me it was, ‘do or die’. 
 V: We, on the other hand, shot in extreme heat! 
 R: During the shoot, one mashal almost fell on my feet!
 V: The first time I saw the film, I was like, ‘Is this Ritu’s voice!’
 R: Begum Jaan was unknown to me, there was no reference point. I had to take out the femininity out of me. Rajkahini will be close to my heart, but 
 
 
 
 
 V: There already is. I am okay with that. Ritu has done a wonderful job. 
 R: I am fascinated by all her films. 
 V: I hope people feel I have done justice to it. 
 
 
 V: The thing with National Awards is you don’t know what might be happening in the rest of the country.
 R: When   was given importance (  for  ), I wondered if regional cinema was taking a backseat. I thought Vidya stands a better chance as Bollywood has more visibility. 
 V: We feel everything other than Hindi cinema stands a better chance! I have no doubt that she was among the top contenders. Itna appreciation jab milta hai toh kahin thodi kami reh jati hai…
 R: I am over it now. I am hoping Vidya will make us proud. To be a woman and rule the Hindi film industry isn’t easy.
 V: Thank you soooo much…
 
 
