VARANASI: The pandit has begun chanting Vedic mantras for the Banarasi silk clad-Gujarati couple when the family breaks into unanimous calls of `Har Har Modi'. Earlier in the day , the baraat party had walked through various streets of Kashi, shouting 'Modi Bhai's' name before reaching the Maidagin situated Jain temple whilst dancing to popular Bollywood tunes.

 “Modi bhai is our godfather. It fills our hearts with pride to see that the Prime Minister is a Gujarati who is working for the country ,“ said Roshan Gujarati, the groom's eldest brother. On the radio at a shop in Gol Ghar, Modi's vote appeals blares through the speaker enchanting bystanders with the connection he draws between Gujarat and Varanasi as his `janm bhoomi' and `karm bhoomi' respectively.
 
 “He has come home. Banaras is Modiji's home!“ said Ruchida Bajaj, eyes sparkling at every reference to Modi.“Krishna bhagwan was born in Mathura but he settled in Gujarat much like our ancestors for whom Gujarat was the birth place but Varanasi the professional land. For Modiji, our respect is the same as that for a family member that has brought us Gujaratis in Kashi even closer,“ she added.Settled around the many areas of the city, including Chaukhamba,  ,  , Gopal Mandir and Ram Ghat, there are more than 50,000 Gujaratis in Varanasi. With a puffed up chest, another resident Rajesh Kumar Gujarati said, “Hamara sampoorn parivar Modi ji ki wajah se gauravanvit mehsoos karta hai (our entire family feels a sense of pride because of Modi). It was because of him that people came to know of Kashi and of us.“ For the business commu nity, the idea of a developed Gujarat is a factor that can bring prosperity to Varanasi, boost its tourism and infrastructure that the community claims would be profiting all businesses in the city . “Even our non-resident Gujarati (NRG) cards, made under the joint Shri Kashi Gujarati Samaj, were possible because of Modiji's efforts. 
 
 Earlier, we were neglected as a minority here,“ said Sushma Joshi.“Not just here, he has echoed the chants of `Bharat Maata' even in Arab nations. His work is phenomenal,“ she added. “With him, there is scope for our community in UP.Otherwise, our children had to migrate from here," said  .
 
