KOLKATA: Call it the sign of times.   of   are now using a website —   (a   that one can use to start a campaign on a wide range of issues) — to draw the young to the Left Front’s   on May 22. 

 Within days of its launch, as many as 884 Netizens have supported the cause to bring the focus back on issues affecting households — spiralling prices of cooking gas, electricity, kerosene — along with problems like low availability of digital ration cards and MNREGS wages being held up for months. 
 
 This is not all. As part of activities on the ground, CPM’s Kolkata secretary Niranjan Chatterjee announced at a gathering held at Rani Rashmani Avenue on Wednesday that party activists have started reaching out to the localities. “Our party activists have collected 3.08 lakh signatures from the people that we will hand over to the chief minister on May 22,” Chatterjee said.
 
 Figures say it all.   has been able to reach less than 3% of Kolkata’s population, and the hit rate in the social media is also not encouraging. “We have little less than two weeks to go for the mega demonstration. We will reach more people,” a CPM district secretariat member said.
 
 Even as CPM state committee member Rupa Bagchi wanted the media to take notice of the “mammoth gathering” in Kolkata, there was scanty participation from the CPM’s target group — the urban poor. There was feeble participation from the slums when one-third of the city’s population dwell in slums. CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra, however, kept harping on the cause of the downtrodden to hit out at state and central governments. 
 
 “Where have all the promises gone? How many jobs have been created for youths? How many new industries have come up in Bengal,” demanded Mishra. Takign a dig at the CM, Mishra said: “She created history. She has demolished an industry that was nearing completion. There is no such precedence in the world. She has bulldozed an industry and returned the land to farmers to grow brinjals.” A round of applause came from a group of grey-haired Bengali genteel whose daughters have left the state for jobs elsewhere.
 
 Middle-ranking party organizers could make out the difference. “We have to do such routine exercise to protect our support base. We need to go beyond these central gatherings and take up aggressive programmes at para-levels in front of ration shops or sit on dharna in front of oil companies or electricity offices. The main thing is to gain back our public credibility that has come under question,” a CPM organizer said.
 
 
