NEW DELHI:   officially announced on Thursday that party vice-president   has initiated the much-awaited surgery in the organisation in which youth and experience were being balanced to run the AICC and state units. 

 Avinash Pande, AICC secretary and former Rajya Sabha MP, has been appointed general secretary to manage the party in Rajasthan, to be assisted by four secretaries in Vivek Bansal, Qazi Nizamuddin, Devendra Yadav and Tarun Kumar.
 
 The party also named new state chiefs in Punjab and Uttarakhand, with Sunil Jakhar replacing chief minister   in Chandigarh and Pritam Singh taking over from Kishore Upadhyay in Dehradun. Noted lawyer Vivek Tankha has been appointed the chairman of AICC's legal and human rights cell.
 
 The changes follow the earlier appointment of Ashok Gehlot and K C Venugopal as general secretaries. They were given charge of poll-bound Gujarat and Karnataka while Chella Kumar was made in charge of Goa. A team of secretaries has been appointed to assist these functionaries.
 
 However, these appointments were made public on a piecemeal basis through low-profile press releases in sharp contrast to AICC spokesman   taking to the party podium to announce fresh inductees on Thursday, as has been the tradition.
 
 The initial preference for quiet changes was interpreted by many as a sign of wariness in Congress, which was unsure of the reaction that Rahul's reshuffle may attract, especially in view of the perception of a "GenNext vs Old Guard" tussle.
 
 The organisational rejig is a precursor to the Gandhi scion's elevation as party president, likely at the end of internal polls in October.
 
 Junking the perception of caution over changes, Surjewala said, "It is a unique mix of youth and experience. " In a dig at BJP, he added, "We do not reject people with credibility and experience, and send them to 'kop bhavan' as 'margdarshak mandal' ." 
 
 As a matter of fact, Congress named party president   and Rahul as authors of the reshuffle.
 
 Surjewala said out of the 17 new office-bearers, 10 were below the age of 50 years, and seven were OBCs and MBCs. All of them have risen through the ranks, having served in Youth Congress or NSUI.
 
 
