Allahabad: The Allahabad   on Friday reserved its judgment on a writ petition challenging the decision of the Election Commission of India (ECI) to reserve Obra and Dudhi assembly seats of Sonebhadra district for Scheduled Tribes (STs) in this Assembly election. 

 A division bench comprising Justice Vimlesh Kumar Shukla and Justice Sangeeta Chandra was hearing a writ petition filed by one Chandra Mani Prasad, who had challenged the decision of the ECI on the ground that the norms provided by the Constitution as well as Representation of People’s Act were not followed while converting the status of these two constituencies. 
 
 As per provisions of the Constitution and the Representation of People’s Act, public hearing is organized and advertisement is published before converting the nature of an assembly seat. In the present case, no such steps were taken, therefore, the decision of ECI was illegal, the petitioner claimed. Moreover, a seat can be reserved for Scheduled Tribes only when they have considerable population in that constituency. But in these areas, they do not have a considerable population. 
 
 The petitioner also contended that earlier Dudhi was reserved for Schedule Caste while Obra was a general seat. However, as per notification of ECI, these seats are now reserved for Schedule Tribes on the basis of an ordinance issued by the Central government in 2013, which according to the petitioner, has lapsed after six months, hence reservation of seats is wrong.
 
 Since life of an ordinance, issued by the Central government, is just six months, it automatically lapsed after six months. Therefore, the Central government must again issue an ordinance if it wanted to continue its effects on the subject matter, it was pleaded in the petition.
 
 However, the counsel for the ECI B N Singh defended the reservation of the two seats on the ground that both had considerable population belonging to Scheduled Tribes category. Hence, the decision is in accordance with various provisions of the Constitution.
 
 
