AURANGABAD: A massive fire spread over a very large area of the Gautala wildlife sanctuary near   and nearby areas since Saturday evening has damaged the local flora and fauna. 

 A portion of a mountain range, ravines and cliffs located in the sanctuary in the limits of   and Chalisgaon tehsils were engulfed in the fire, which produced flames of nearly 40 feet in height, on-duty forest staffers said. Such was the huge spread of fire that it also reached up to ancient Pitalkhora caves, a heritage site dating backing to 2nd Century BC, eyewitnesses said. 
 
 The ground staff of forest department along with shop owners from the local areas put brave efforts to douse the fire hours after it caused havoc in the forest areas. 
 
 Divisional forest officer   said it was difficult to control the fire considering the tough geographical conditions of the sanctuary area. "We had deployed our staff equipped with fire-blower machines to douse the fire, but reaching deep ravines and cliffs was a tough task. Nevertheless, untiring efforts by staff could bring fire under control," he said.
 
 The latest fire, which broke out on Saturday evening, was in a series of such blazes reported from the sanctuary over a period of last one week. The forest department is facing flak for poor patrolling and vigilance in the protected area and its surroundings. 
 
 Located around 70km from  , the Gautala- Autramghat wildlife sanctuary is home to 30 species of mammals, including schedule I species like Wolf, Leopard, Sloth Bear, Black Buck and Four Horned Antelope and more than 210 species of birds including 20 species of migratory status and a variety of reptiles, amphibians and fishes.
 
 In turn, the forest department, which has ordered an inquiry into the fire, has blamed locals for the series of fire incidents at Gautala sanctuary. "We have been strictly enforcing restrictions on cattle grazing in the sanctuary area. Locals, who are unhappy with our stand, create mischief by lighting fire in the forest area. As lot of hay, plants and shrubs are found in forest area during summer, the fire spreads quickly," Dhamge said. 
 
 Environmentalists, however, flayed the forest department authorities and staff for alleged negligence of duties. "Absence of patrolling and proper vigilance are two main reasons behind destruction of biodiversity at Gautala wildlife sanctuary. Forest department authorities and staff choose to remain at taluka or district place, leading to dereliction of duties. Such lapses have been taking heavy toll on local flora and fauna," claimed   of  .
 
 Assistant conservator of forest P V Jagat said an inquiry ordered into the whole incident and it would bring more facts in public domain. "We have initiated an inquiry into the matter and final report would be submitted soon," he said. 
 
 It may be noted that the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) has recently declared eco-sensitive zone with an extent of up to one kilometre from the boundary of Gautala Autramghat wildlife sanctuary, which is spread over Aurangabad and Jalgaon districts of Maharashtra. 
 
 Environmentalists said that it makes no sense to declare an area as an eco-sensitive zone if the core and protected area of the sanctuary is vulnerable to attacks. The MoEF as well as the state government should take serious note of series of fires at Gautala wildlife sanctuary and initiative action against the guilty, they said.
 
