HYDERABAD: The six persons, who were burnt alive at the   illegal air cooler manufacturing at Rajendranagar in the early hours of Wednesday, got trapped in the make-shift unit as it had just one entryexit point. Also, the workers locked the entry exit shutter from inside and kept its keys at a location, which was probably near the source of the fire.

 Om Avone owner Pramod Kumar had employed four workers from Jharkhand -Saddam, Irfan, Mujahid and Saha. During the night, they used to lock the shutter from inside and sleep on the premises. On Tuesday night, two more persons joined the four workers and they too slept there. After downing the shutter for their safety and locking it from inside, they left the keys at a safe location before sleeping, police said.
 
 Around 5.10 am, when the fire broke out and the victims realised that they would be roasted alive, they frantically searched for the keys. However, the place where they kept the keys was already engulfed in flames. As the fire started to spread from the rear towards the front (i.e. towards the shutter), the six trapped persons reportedly moved towards the shutter and started banging on it desperately to get out of the inferno. “Irfan called up Pramod Kumar and told him how they were helplessly trapped. The owner told them to break the wall and get out. Within a matter of a few minutes, they were burnt alive. The inaccessible keys might have pushed them into the jaws of death,'' Rajendranagar inspector Umender told TOI.
 
 By 5.20 am, in a span of just 10 minutes, the whole unit was on fire as about 400 cooler bodies and a huge quantity of mats were stored there. As police were preparing to round up   (JAC) members since morning, the Rajendranagar police, who were moving in that area, saw the fire and some locals at the scene. By the time police went to the spot, they could still hear victims screaming for help from inside the unit. Police called up the fire department, who too rushed to the spot quickly, but it was too late by then.
 
