With so many dance reality shows and foot tapping Bollywood number ruling the roost of entertainment, it is of little wonder that dancing has quickly become a popular form of workout for the citizens. Be it much disciplined classical forms of Bharatnatayam, Kathak or contemporary forms like Salsa, Zumba,   and Bollywood dancing, the city is upbeat about all the forms. On international Day of Dance, Bhopal Times brings to you the newest path of wellness in the city.

  
  Bouncy, trippy and jazzy ways are showing the path to complete fitness. A movement to incorporate dance into fitness regime that started some ten years back is at the peak in the city right now. Many dance studios are including international dance forms like Zumba, Bokwa, Belly dancing, Hip-Hop into workout formats to make the process fun and light-hearted. Monica Sahai, owner and instructor of a dance studio says, “Dancing is good cardio workout and definitely more entertaining than the monotonous running on a treadmill. Age is no bar in dancing these days, as people of all ages take up contemporary, salsa and zumba. In a week we have four dance classes, wherein we keep a consistent rotation of forms so that the crowd remains enthused and they learn as amny dance forms as they can in their period of enrolment. We also introduced Bokwa, an African form of dance that increases agility and swiftness with its movements where dancers try to bend their body in the form of alphabets.” Belly dancing is also being seen as a fun workout in the city as millenials are pursuing the form passionately. Shreeprada Shrivastava, a 21-year-old belly dancer has been grabbing attention on social media with her moves shares, “Belly dancing is one form that lets you relax and be comfortable in your own skin. More often than not people feel are more inclined towards hip-hop and zumba, but fitness conscious ladies are picking up belly dancing to lose the tummy fat. It is one of the best abs workout that can give you sculpted abdomen over the years. With healthy lifestyle and belly dancing as exercise one can have a strong core workout. Cherry on top however is the fact that being a belly dancer makes you feel exclusively exotic which is a special feeling altogether!"
 
 
 
  
 The graceful mudras and exquisite dance of the eyes leaves everyone enamoured by a classical dancer. But there is more to classical forms than just grace and poise.  , a 24-year-old   dancer who has gone on to win laurels for the state shares, “I started learning Odissi from my aunt and guru Bindu Juneja when I was nine. As the years progressed my will to pursue it as a career got stronger. By 11
  grade I had got into dancing professionally. For classical form I would say that it inculcates a sort of discipline in your life which can be implemented in all phases of life. In fact to be a classical dancer one has to have complete mental fitness to be able to sink into the character. That is how we learn to have a wider perspective on things and train to be more accepting and tolerable of all that is happening around us. Therefore I believe classical forms bring about a holistic fitness to its proponent.” Another dancer Shivam Gupta, who performs Kathak says, “It trains your mind to be alert and strive for perfection. Even in our career, this trait becomes handier as we push ourselves to give the best under every circumstance. Kathak improves your concentration and while portraying the characters, makes you a generally happy person. Above all, performances on stages bigger than you make you a humble person which I think is need of the day.” 
 
 
 
 Everyone who has turned into naagin and sapera at friend’s bridegroom procession will have to agree that it the zealous   has always made their muscles ache the next day. “An average Indian’s freestyle dance is one of the best ways for energetic workout in the current day and age” says Sahai. She goes on to add, “It is one form where a person does not fear being judged and dances with utter abandon. Even when they get carried away with ballistic movements, they are giving their bodies a full-body workout. A typical baarat can last anywhere upto one hour, during which they can easily burn a considerable amount of calories. In fact, some families have even approached us for lending baraatis from our dance crews!”
  Similarly, folk and martial forms like   have become the latest inclination of city youngsters. A recently conducted month-long Chhau workshop saw hearty participation from the denizens. Conductor of the workshop Chandra Madhav Barik says, “Average age of the participants in the workshop was 25, which means youngsters in the city are back to exploring roots for a different form of exercise. In one month they learnt Purelia, Mayurbhanj and Seraikella Chhau forms which incorporate a lot of martial movements. The forms strengthen the extremities while retaining a grace to depict the art. As dancers are completely on their feet and knees it also develops stamina in them.”
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
