NEW DELHI: Of all the organisations promoting Pakistan’s ongoing showpiece   ( ), there’s one which might be of 
  . It’s the   ( ).

 Some will see a conflicting signal in this, given all the talk here about isolating Pakistan, but the government’s flagship cultural body, which promotes India’s relations with the external world by executing the foreign ministry’s projects abroad, is one of the sponsors of the event. 
 
 Government officials told TOI, India was not giving up on people-to-people contact even if political differences with   were insurmountable. 
 
 This is the first time ICCR is sponsoring the event, which began in 2010.
 
 "We are working to increase India’s cultural footprint across the world under the leadership of PM  , including in Pakistan,” ICCR director general Amarendra Khatua told TOI.
 
 The Karachi Literature Festival (KLF) has gained tremendously in significance since it was launched in 2010 and now counts foreign missions of several countries in Pakistan as sponsors. The organisers of KLF attribute this “momentum” to the depth of Pakistan’s literary and cultural roots.
 
 ICCR’s presence at the festival comes at a time when there’s a veritable ban on Pakistani artistes performing in India and when missions on both sides remain reluctant to issue visas to people who can help encourage cultural contact.
 
 While some may see India’s involvement with KLF as coming against the run of play, the government seems to be finally veering round to the view that holding aloof completely from a troublesome neighbour may prove to be of little help.
 
 As it has repeatedly declared, the government will not dilute its position that there can’t be any dialogue with Pakistan until it takes demonstrable action against India-specific terror groups. However, it’s also wary of appearing churlish by shunning cultural bonds and people-to-people contact altogether.
 
 ICCR’s role as a sponsor of KLF comes shortly after India’s invite to Pakistan to attend the   Speakers’ Summit, as reported first by TOI on January 30, in Indore next month. Islamabad declined the invitation and Pakistani media has attributed this to India’s “hostile policies”. 
 
 India had, in the wake of the Uri attack last year, boycotted the   summit in Islamabad, leading to its postponement as several other nations too pulled out. Indian and Pakistani officials last week participated in a Saarc meet in Nepal though.
 
 While some see signs of a thaw in recent developments, the foreign ministry continues to maintain that there’s no question of lowering the bar on the issue of terrorism.
 
