A day after the   police arrested four people in connection with the stalking-molestation case, another sexual and physical assault was reported, BT finds out what our law keepers and victims have to say about the pressing reality of stalkers turning into molesters... 

 Last September in Delhi, a 21-year-old woman was stabbed to death in broad daylight by a man who had been   her for months. In October the same year, a 34-year-old beautician was brutally assaulted and stabbed to death by her  . Chennai reported three such incidents last year and in Bengaluru, this year, apart from the incident of mass   on NYE, another woman was molested the same night near her home. CCTV clippings of a couple of these incidents have gone viral, proving once again the brazen and unabashed nature of crimes committed against  . It has been established by the police that the Bengaluru woman was being stalked before it escalated to molestation. Do we see a pattern here?
 
 Advocate Mrunalini Deshmukh, who deals with women’s issues, refers to the amendment that was made by the Varma Committee after the Nirbhaya case, that has defined 
 sections for stalking, be it physical or cyber. “Stalking is the initial stage where the ultimate intention could be molestation or  . Hence, women need to issue stern 
 warnings to their stalkers, who usually use random mobiles or public phones. In fact, most of them don’t even know the age of the women they’re stalking. One should complain against stalking and after that, it is the duty of the police officers or the counselling cell to track them down, summon them, give them a dressing down 
 if needed along with a stern warning to ensure they don’t repeat it,” says Mrunalini. 
 
 Sharmila Kher, an activist who works for women’s rights, affirms that according to National Crime Records Bureau ( ) statistics, a stalker is almost always known to you — they know your daily routine. She says, “Women should not expose their vulnerability, and should always be alert. The way to deal with a stalker is to face him. If it’s a call or message, make sure you inform the stalker that his calls are being recorded and the messages will make it to the police diary. Similarly, if it’s a physical stalker, make it a public concern. Shame the crowd for not helping you if needed, and involve them in dealing with the stalker. Women must trust their intuition. If you notice a common face around you too often, go and confront him. Click a picture, post it on social networking sites, so that people are in the know.”
 Is the legal system supportive? 
 While there are many women who have approached the system for help when harassed by stalkers, there haven’t been many law-keepers who have risen to the occasion. Amu Ibrahim a city-based NGO worker, says, “There are many women who approach us for help in cases such as eve-teasing and being groped in public places. When they go to the cops, they often just register a diary entry and ask the woman to not bother much about such miscreants. What they do not understand is that this only boosts the confidence of such men to commit sexual assault.”
 Do helpline numbers really work?
 If you are being stalked and you attempt to call on the Mumbai Police’s Women and Child helpline number, 103, chances are your call will be diverted to the local police station. After receiving such feedback from several women we interviewed, we tried to test this ourselves. The police officer who answered our call, said, “It's a helpline for all — children, senior citizens, not just women. And if it’s about stalking or molesting, you need to go to the nearby police station. We won't be able to help you, since cyber-crime is not dealt with here. Only if it’s an extreme emergency, can we send a message to the nearby police station who will then send you help.” We were left wondering if a woman being stalked will have that much time on her hand. 
 Ananya Dasgupta (*name changed on request) had approached the local police station when she kept getting lewd calls for a week from an unknown number. She says, “One night, I started receiving calls from a guy who was talking loose and was constantly calling from different numbers and harassing me. Initially, I gave it back to him but then realised that he was only having fun by provoking me. When I called the women’s grievance cell and the cyber cell department, they asked me to lodge an official complaint with the local police station at 12 in the night! This appalling response came after I had specifically mentioned to the lady police officer that I stay alone and it might be someone residing nearby. The next day, when I approached the police officials at the local station, they just took down his number and asked me not to take the calls anymore. The lady inspector even went to the extent of saying, ‘He is just calling and threatening you, he hasn’t raped you yet!”’ 
 Mrunalini adds, “If you think blocking the stalker will settle the matter, you are living in a bubble.”
 usual suspects
 Nitika Rohira, a student of NM College, Vile Parle, says, “Stalking is extremely common, especially for girls who live alone in the city. There’s a group of these suspects, like courier or food delivery guys, neighbourhood guards, etc. who easily get hold of our phone numbers. Almost every fortnight, I get a series of lewd messages from different numbers. I’ve realised that the only way to tackle this is to ignore them.” However, the mistake women make is to ignore them and turn a blind eye after a while, since they lack persistence. The need to follow-up on the matter gets diluted once we get busy with our lives, which is exactly what works in the favour of the stalker.
 While it is highlighted that the girl who was molested in Bengaluru was new to the city, city-based advertising professional Maansi Gore says that the scenario is no different for women who are long-time residents of a city either. “I’m a Mumbaikar, and have been repeatedly stalked, not just by nameless men, but by people known to me. I have resorted to different routes of commute to avoid them as well as raised a complaint with the police. I have even made my male friends and family members warn them, but they seldom budge. Blocking them is the only solution, even if it means skirting the issue." 
 Society’s biased opinion
 Often, women don’t get support from those around them. Vrinda Kaul, a 28-year-old advertising professional, says, “I was living alone in a rented flat in Santacruz and used to frequent a grocery store in the area. After a few days, the vendor started calling me and frequenting my house. He would ring the doorbell at odd hours. My building secretary helped me lodge a complaint at the local police station. After the cops threatened the man with dire consequences, he started entering the building and defecating in the garden while the watchman was away. The people in my society started pressurising me to leave the complex, stating that this was happening because I was a single girl.” 
 Cases can be registered under special sections
 A top lady cop, who did not wish to be named, says, “FIR can be lodged in such cases under Section 354 and Section 354 D of the Indian Penal Code. This is in lieu of a woman being stalked physically or via SMS, instant messaging, social media and calls. However, there are many women who just ask us to identify the stalker and threaten him. Many girls do not come forward to register a formal complaint because of the fear of their families, who might misunderstand them. The possibility of the miscreant causing harm to them or their families in the near future is also a concern.”
 
 
 
 Stalking is passive-aggressive in nature and even if you think that it is not physically harmful, it could turn so soon enough. Here are a few ways you can recognise a stalker…
 
 
 
 
 According to statistics, more than 80% of the time, the stalker is someone you probably know. Look out for signs. See if someone is following you while you are going to work or getting back home. If possible, do not take the same route every day.
 
 
 
 The basic aim of a stalker is to try and scare you. They may try to prove their power over you by their actions. They will try to increase their proximity to you. However, instead of getting scared, you must be brave and call for help in case you sense danger. Don’t wait for him to physically harm you.
 
 
 This shouldn’t come as a surprise to you — the stalker will make every possible attempt to approach you – either physically or through the virtual world. Constant messages or calls could be one sign. The other could be that you spot the same person around you whenever you are travelling alone.
 
 
 
 
 
 Resentful stalking happens when the stalker feels as though they have been ill-treated or that they are the victim of some form of injustice or humiliation. Resentful stalking can also be the result of severe mental illness, where the perpetrator develops paranoid beliefs about the victim and uses stalking as a way of ‘getting back’ at her.
 
 
 
 
 Stalking arising out of rejection often happens because of the breakdown of a close relationship. Victims are usually former sexual intimates. However, family members and close friends of the stalker can also become targets. The initial motivation of this kind of stalker is either to attempt a reconciliation or to exact revenge for the rejection.
 
 
 
 The stalking behaviour is usually initiated as a way of obtaining sexual gratification (e.g., voyeurism targeting a single victim over time), but can also be a way of obtaining information about the victim as a precursor to a sexual assault. “It’s basically a kind of obsession which is the main component of the stalker’s thoughts. In some cases, it’s an OCD (Obsessive Compulsive Disorder), where the stalker feels an uncontrollable urge to follow, chase or harass someone. For others, it's just ‘fun’, rather, an exercise to prove their manhood. Some stalkers could have a history of rejection or it might also spring from an impulsive fondness for the target. They basically suffer from a complex, which urges them to cause harm without 
 worrying about the consequences,” says Padma Rewari, a psychologist who deals with women and children’s issues.
 
 
 1. Women must start using technology to protect themselves — instantly click a picture of the stalker, take a screen grab of the messages, post them on social media.
 2. Make a noise if someone tries to forcefully touch you, approaches you and passes lewd remarks. Get as many people as you can to support you, use the crowd as a weapon of self-protection.
 3. Keep the local police station’s number saved on your mobile. If you sense someone following you, call someone and tell them your current location, or at least pretend to, loudly enough for the stalker to hear.
 4. Save security apps on your home screen and enable their emergency features. Stalking, when left unattended, escalates to molestation, rape, acid attack and sometimes, even murder.
 
 
 
 
