CHANDIGARH: Punjab’s new Congress chief   after assuming charge on Wednesday made   on the functioning of  , saying that politicisation of both from   is refusing to cease.

 “Politicisation of cops and bureaucracy is running so deep. There was a time when the then deputy chief minister, Sukhbir Badal, wanted to permanently change the colour of the turbans of Punjab police to blue. That temperament of officers has not changed. This has percolated right to the lower ranks,” Jakhar said. “If they (babus and cops) fail to do so, the government knows how to bring the change around. It’s not jathedar politics any longer,” he maintained.
 
 The comments triggered sharp reactions from several MLAs, who came in support of Jakhar. As many as 20 MLAs in Kapurthala, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Bathinda and four cabinet ministers had recently raised a concern with chief minister Amarinder Singh that many deputy commissioners and SSPs have started giving legislators’ constituency programmes a miss. Many in the Congress also wanted Amarinder to announce a change of guard in top police machinery.
 
 Three weeks ago Amarinder had issued a warning to his ministers and MLAs following the Muktsar, Nabha and Tarn Taran incidents that no political interference in bureaucracy and policing would be tolerated, which led to a bit of disagreement in the Congress. The MLAs had expressed unhappiness over the fact that they did not have any say in either appointing police or civil officials of their choice.
 
 Earlier, AICC leaders Harish Chaudhary, Asha Kumari and Ambika Soni, along with ministers like Manpreet Singh Badal, Navjot Singh Sidhu and senior leaders like Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Rajinder Kaur Bhattal and Lal Singh, reached Congress Bhawan to join Jakhar’s coronation ceremony. Congratulating Jakhar, Amarinder said that, “He is the best person to strengthen the party and help the government fulfil all promises made to the people of Punjab.” He announced that the new PPCC chief would have full support of the government in the implementation of all party promises.
 
