LUCKNOW: The apex court's advice to find an amicable solution to the   puts the spotlight back on similar exercises undertaken in the past 30 years. The only difference in Tuesday's development is that that earlier bids for mutual settlements were mostly initiated by central governments and Prime Ministers, while this time, the proposal has come from the highest court of the land.

 Earlier, just two months before the high court pronounced its judgement on September 30, 2010, the three-member bench had advised all parties to solve the issue amicably. But none of the contesting parties came forward. However, a week before the judgment, a plea for an out-of-court settlement reached  . The apex court heard the plea on September 28, but turned down the plea, clearing the way for delivery of verdict two days later.
 
 While the Ayodhya title suit is dragging on since 1949, efforts for negotiated settlement started in 1986 when the Shankaracharya of Kanchi Kamkoti and president of   Ali Miyan Nadvi started discussing it, but it couldn't take off.
 
 After the arrival of a non-Congress government at the Centre, both VP Singh and Chandra Shekhar tried to reach a solution to the vexed issue.VP Singh formed a Janmabhoomi Cell headed by a Bihar IPS officer Kishore Kunal, who held a series of meetings with representatives of the Nirmohi Akhara and Janmabhoomi Nyas, besides the VHP and the   and the AllIndia Muslim Personal Law Board. But by the time he could give shape to his plans to settle the raging dispute, Singh had to resign amid escalating infighting in the  , and Chandra Shekhar became the Prime Minister. The latter, too, failed to resist the Sangh Pariwar's pressure which forced him to intervene.
 
 V P Singh's suggestion for the temple on the first floor and masjid on the ground floor had already been rejected by both warring parties. Chandra Shekhar designated controversial godman Chandra Swami to settle the dispute which was plaguing every government and the nation. The high profile godman would land frequently in Ayodhya in a government helicopter and meet the warring leaders. He also organised a grand `havan', but by the time any substantive ground could be made, Chandra Shekhar's stint as PM was over.
 
 After the 1991 elections,   returned to power with PV Narsimha Rao. The BJP, which had been supporting the Janata Dal governments from outside, was defeated in the elections. With the backing of the Sangh Pariwar, they warned the PM to settle the dispute at the earliest or Hindus would organise karseva in Ayodhya.
 
 The karseva led to the demolition of the Babr Masjid despite an appeal from the then-PM Rao. “He was actually trying to divide the saint community which hurt the pro-mandir group,“ recalled 71-year-old Triloki Nath Pandey, officially designated as a friend of Ram Lalla, who was given one-third of the disputed land by the HC. Pandey said there were documents in the custody of the court and the government to testify that Muslims had given in writing that if any archaeological evidence was found establishing the existence of the temple before the   they will have to withdraw their claims.
 
 “The HC in 2003 ordered the excavation of the disputed land. A Japanese company conducted laser tests and   excavated and submitted its findings that there was a temple at the same place,“ claimed Pandey, adding that discussions would be held on the same lines, otherwise there would be no negotiations with anyone.
 
