BENGALURU: The Aero India show started in 1996 at the Yelahanka Air Force Station near Bengaluru. With the growth of Indian economy and India becoming one of the largest buyers of military hardware, and also the growth of civil aviation, Aero India slowly grew in stature and reputation and is now acknowledged as Asia's largest airshow for civil and military aircraft. Bengaluru, with its brand image and aided by salubrious climate and home to many aerospace establishments like HAL, BEL, Isro, NAL, IISc, has become a backend design hub for aerospace industries like Airbus, Bombardier, GE and other international companies. It was the right place to attract aerospace investors into India, both for software and manufacturing as well as civil and military aviation. In 2009, Aero India attracted 592 exhibitions for static display as well as many foreign firms displaying their military jets, including the IAF, in dazzling aerobatics.

 Unfortunately, due to politics of rivalry and ego clash between the defence and civil aviation ministers and their ministries and shortsighted vision, a few years ago, the civil aviation ministry felt it must have its own airshow independent of Aero India conducted by the IAF under the aegis of the defence ministry and shifted the civil part to the   and, eventually now to the  , thereby taking away the sheen off Aero India built assiduously over the years and denting the economics of both Bengaluru and Delhi shows. Aircraft manufacturers, already fatigued with too many airshows worldwide, have now scaled back their participation from India as was evident in the just-concluded airshow. Apart from hundreds of major air shows in the US and Europe, there are prominent shows in Istanbul, Dubai, Singapore, Hong Kong, China, Malaysia and Australia. Airshows cost large sums of money and are also environmentally disastrous. Companies like Airbus and Boeing build air-conditioned chalets which are like luxurious resorts with plush carpets and furniture where business meetings are held and VIP customers are entertained over wine and gourmet food. All chalets built for airshows are destroyed at the end of the show.
 
 For static displays, the airport builds a series of huge hangars where hundreds of companies exhibit their wares with spectacular displays using plywood and other disposable materials costing crores of rupees. A large aerospace company, which builds chalets and entertains business guests over a week, brings their aircraft and executives for an airshow spends close to $8-10 million. With half the show shifting to Delhi, our political leaders have not shown the prudence and vision for not only Brand Bengaluru but Brand India.
 
 Now, there is again talk of winding up the Delhi show and combining it back with Bengaluru, so that like the Paris and Farnborough shows, Aero India can grow from strength to strength over the years. It is pertinent and wise to remember that shows at Paris and Farnborough showcase both military and civil aircraft and are not held at the   or Heathrow international airports but in alternative airports nearby so that civil flying is disrupted to the minimum.
 
 There are also hairbrained ideas floating around to shift the show from Bengaluru to Goa. This is typically an Indian trait to set up factories or airports or run railways lines or construct terminals or build dams not based on their suitability and sustainability or economic sense but because the minister hailed from that constituency, throwing away, with scant disregard, public money.
 
 Bengaluru has nurtured an aerospace ecosystem, both civil and military, over decades since independence and we must build on that diligently. Besides, one should bear in mind that the defence ministry and the IAF have built massive infrastructure for the show at the Yelahanka Airbase, costing hundreds of crores of rupees which will be rendered redundant if the show is shifted to Goa and who knows where else depending on where the next defence minister hails from.
 
 Hope good sense prevails.
 
