AURANGABAD: An   in Aurangabad is set to become a reality soon as the proposal in this regard has been approved by the state finance department.

 “The commissionerate should start functioning within a maximum of two months,” state water conservation minister   told TOI on Thursday.
 
 He was in the city to attend the wedding of state BJP president’s son and MLA Santosh Danve.
 
 “Now that the finance department has give its nod, the proposal will be cleared by a high-powered committee and the Cabinet shortly,” he said.
 
 Shinde said the commissionerate in Auragabad would have jurisdiction over the entire state with key mandate for water management. “Judicious use of water is still not the norm in agriculture, industrial and domestic sectors. The commissionerate will deal with effective water management.” 
 
 The minister added that minor irrigation, water conservation, irrigation at the level of local self-governing bodies, soil management and the state flagship scheme of Jalyukta Shivar will be some of the prime focus areas of the commissionerate.
 
 An official of the water conservation department said, “The commissionerate will have a staff strength of 187, including an IAS-level officer who will oversee operations. It will also have three joint commissioners, eight deputy commissioners and a joint director for the accounts section.”
 
 The commissionerate is most likely to be established on the premises of the   (WALMI) here. An expenditure of about Rs 2.5 crore is expected to be incurred on the commissionerate annually. 
 
 A formal announcement for setting up the commissionerate in Aurangabad was made by chief minister   during the state cabinet meeting on October 4 last year. 
 
 Water activist Abhiji Joshi-Dhanorkar said that setting up the irrigation commissionerate in Aurangabad could rekindle the hopes of the drought-prone Marathwada region for equitable water distribution.
 
 “Marathwada can expect a share of water from upstream dams if a powerful authority is headquartered in the region. The commissionerate will remove barriers such as distance in following up on key water-related issues,” he said.
 
 Maharashtra had set up the   in 1992, but never constituted a separate commissionerate for it. The department remained clubbed with the agricultural department for more than two decades, allegedly causing policy paralysis and thereby making regions like Marathwada and Vidarbha suffer perennially.
 
 According to experts, the state was losing funds running into crores of rupees sanctioned by the Centre in the absence of a dedicated commissionerate for irrigation. 
 
