It’s a no-brainer that when a celebrity supports a health cause or associates themselves with it, the kind of leverage the issue gets is remarkable. For example, Amitabh Bachchan’s association with polio eradication and tuberculosis awareness and   talking about her experience with depression. So, when it comes to premature babies, Karan Johar’s surrogate twins Yash and Roohi, may just be a blessing in disguise, say doctors.

 Senior neonatologist Dr  , who also runs a neonatal intensive care unit ( ), says, “Doctors have been working in this field for many years, but even if we shout from rooftops, we can’t bring the kind of awareness that a celebrity —   star, sportsperson, or someone at the level of a health minister — easily can. Their support will translate into more lives saved. It can make a world of difference.”
 
 
 
 Neonatal mortality rates in our country are very high — around seven to eight lakhs infant deaths a year, say doctors. The leading causes include premature delivery, infection and infant failing to cry after birth, says consultant pediatrician Dr Sonal Saste. 
 Senior consultant pediatrician Dr Jayesh Sheth adds, “Approximately 16 to 20 per cent newborn babies require NICU care. Premature babies are not fully equipped to deal with life.”
 
 Doctors say that their tiny bodies have underdeveloped parts that include the lungs, digestive system, immune system and skin. Dr Avasthi says, “India needs many more NICU units for its preemies so that they can survive the first few days, weeks or months of life until they are strong enough to make it on their own. We doctors have been able to reduce mother mortality and under-five mortality, but we have still been unable to significantly reduce neo-natal mortality” 
 Dr Jayesh adds, “Urban, private NICU care is expensive, while government and BMC run NICUs are always full and overworked.”
 
 
  
 
 There are many cardiac care ICUs and other critical care units for adults across the country, but NICUs lag behind, feel doctors. People who start multi-specialty hospitals feel that they don’t need to have more than a five-bed NICU. The sensitivity towards the ‘born-too-soon’ needs to increase, feel pediatricians. Dr Avasthi says, “Government hospitals should have more NICUs. Young medical students should be taught about neonatology. They should be incentivised.” Dr Saste adds, “Adults are resistant to a lot of things and can avoid catching infection, but the neonatal do not have any resistance whatsoever, so they need all the specialist care that can be offered.”
 
 
 
 Doctors say that when the mother or the gynaecologist suspects that the baby might be premature, they must give the right medicines to the mother to help the baby fight it out later. 
 
 Dr Avasthi shares, “They can be given steroids to help in the maturity of the lungs. When a baby is born early, usually the lungs are not developed. This can make a lot of difference in the morbidity and mortality of the babies. Magnesium injections are also helpful because they provide neuro protection.” Since their vessels are very small, premature babies have bleeding in the brain, which may lead to mental retardation or spastic babies later and magnesium helps to deal with that. Dr Jayesh adds, “Some are correctable if the mother receives proper care during pregnancy and at the time of birth.”
 
 
 
 Dr Jayesh says, “Some of the long-term solutions include improved maternal care at all levels, specially for low socio economic group mothers whose babies often need NICU care. This preventive strategy is the single most factor, which will reduce burden on NICU. Also, compulsorily covering medicare insurance for all mothers and babies is important. And last but not the least, many more NICUs are needed practically in every suburb and large maternity homes.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 There are different types of NICU...
 
 
 Baby just requires close looking after or needs phototherapy.
 
 
 The baby requires additional support and needs to be properly monitored.
 
 
 This is where there is everything — all facilities including ventilators.
 
 
 Nitric oxide availability, high frequency.
 
 
 
 Babies born before 37 weeks are premature. Dr Avasthi says, “Parents need not worry if premature babies are at 35-36 weeks. But when the baby is less than 32 weeks, one must be careful. KJo’s kids were born at 30 weeks on Feb 7. The last week of March, on 28th, they would’ve completed 37 weeks. But since they were twins, anything more than 35 weeks was good enough.” 
 According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), every year, nearly 15 million babies die due to complications with premature births and survivors can face a lifetime of disability, including learning disabilities, visual, and hearing problems. “We can save lakhs of lives if we have more centres and trained doctors to take care of them,” adds Dr Avasthi.
 People used to believe that a 500-gms baby should not be saved because it may be mentally retarded or have cerebral palsy. However, this does not hold any longer because of the advancement in medicine and the kind of facilities available here.
 Dr Avasthi concludes, “Preterm babies are the biggest fighters — they are just 500 gms or 700 gms and fighting alone in the incubator or warmer with so many tubes, machines and artificial respiration. Yet, most of them emerge victorious.”
 
 
 
