PUNE: The   has   in the   observing that they were provoked and  .

 The trio — Vijay Rajendra Gambhire, Ganesh alias Ranjeet Shankar Yadav and Ajay Dilip Lalge — recently moved their bail pleas seeking parity with the 11 accused released on bail. They stated they had been attributed a role identical to that played by the co-accused granted bail.
 
 IT professional Mohsin Shaik was attacked by a mob at Satav plot in Hadapsar around 9.15pm on June 2, 2014 during the violence that erupted in the city’s eastern suburb over an objectionable post on the social media. Half-an-hour prior to the attack, Hindu Rashtra Sena chief Dhananjay Desai had addressed a meeting, allegedly instigating the audience to commit the violence. The Hadapsar police then arrested 21 suspects, including Desai, in connection with the murder. 
 
 The high court granted bail to 11 co-accused between April and June last year, but Desai’s bail plea was rejected in March 2015. He is lodged in Yerawada jail.
 
 In an order on January 12, Justice Mridula Bhatkar referred to the high court’s March 5, 2015 order that rejected Desai’s bail plea, and observed that he was the one who was the speaker at the meeting and he instigated the audience. “It is observed in the said order of this court that the transcript of the speech given by Dhananjay Desai was sufficient to show that he had incited the feelings of the religious discrimination. The meeting was held half-an-hour prior to the incident of assault.”
 
 The bench further observed, “The applicants/accused (Gambhire, Yadav and Lalge) otherwise had no other motive such as any personal enmity against the innocent deceased Mohsin. The fault of the deceased was only that he belonged to another religion. I consider this factor in favour of the applicants/accused. Moreover, the applicants/accused do not have a criminal record and it appears that in the name of religion, they were provoked and have committed the murder.”
 
 The bench went on to order the trio’s release on bail against personal release bonds of Rs 40,000 each with one or two solvent sureties of equal amount. The trio have been restrained from pressurizing the complainant or the witnesses and from associating themselves with any religious organization of such nature like Hindu Rashtra Sena. They have to report to the Hadapsar police on the first and fifteenth day of every month between 6pm and 8pm till March 31.
 
 
