MUMBAI: The  , one of the busiest in the country, claims the lives of scores of commuters annually, prompting the courts to often prod the railways to adopt better safety measures. Now, the perils of manning the system are visiting the  .

 Five railway officers,   and a   have been run over by trains while on duty in the past eight months, setting off alarm bells in the Mumbai division.
 
  Officials have been forced to admit that there are, shockingly, no protocols to ensure the safety of railway employees while on duty on the tracks, despite the frequency at which trains run.
 
 “It is shocking to learn about these deaths, which include those of a deputy station master, three engineers and a guard in the past few months,” said a senior official. The latest incident was that of a deputy station master, who was run over by a local train near Vile Parle on Thursday night. 
 
 The number of fatalities in such a short span has sharpened focus on the hazards faced by officials working on the tracks where trains go past every two minutes. Friday’s victim, Vile Parle deputy station master Ashok Azad, was run over while attending to a case of trespassing which held up a train on the Virar-bound fast track for 40 minutes, around 9pm.
 
 “We do not have any standard operating procedure for railway officials when they are on duty on tracks. They have to safeguard themselves and watch for oncoming trains,” said a senior official. “It is a challenging task to work on tracks, especially at night. A train may come every two minutes from any direction. You have to perform your duty while at the same time step aside when a train arrives,” he said.
 
 Gangmen have a system of manually signalling their team members to move away when a train approaches, by whistling or waving a red flag. But in case of operations staff, the onus of their safety is entirely on them.
 
 An official, who requested anonymity, said it was very difficult to carry out operations near the tracks at night. “Sometimes the headlight of an oncoming train is so bright you are not sure whether you are standing on a live track or between two tracks,” he said, recalling his own experience.
 
 Earlier this month, several WR staffers were shocked when one of their colleagues, a junior railway engineer, was knocked down by a speeding local while on track electrification duty near Ram Mandir station. An official demanded that there should be a ‘standby watcher’ for every railway officer/engineer/station master inspecting the tracks or on mega-block duty. He also demanded use of walkie-talkies by the ‘watcher’ to give ample warning to the official on inspection duty at mid-sections.
 
 According to union sources, 44 railway workers, which includes contractual labourers, have lost their lives on tracks in Mumbai division since 2010. “The railways should be concerned about the workers’ safety,” a source from the union said. More than a dozen gangmen alone have died on track duty in the past three years, sources added. 
 
