NEW DELHI: In a first of its kind order, the   asked chief justices of 11 high courts to initiate suo motu proceedings against state governments and force them to appoint special public prosecutors in cases under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.

 A PIL by an advocate accused these 11 states of negating the mandate of Pocso Act, enacted five years ago to expeditiously punish culprits through speedy trial by designating a sessions court as special court in every district for such cases and appointing a special public prosecutor who would conduct trial only in these cases. 
 
 The petitioner told a bench of Chief Justice   and Justices D Y Chandrachud and Sanjay Kishan Kaul that these states had not discharged their obligation to appoint special public prosecutors to conduct trials in an overwhelming number of districts.
 
  As a result, speedy trial envisaged under the Pocso Act was getting frustrated, he said.
 
 He alleged that several district and sessions courts designated as special court under Pocso Act also tried cases under laws dealing with organised crime, thus forcing abused children to come in contact with persons accused of other serious crimes as also hardened criminals. 
 
 The bench said the PIL canvassed an issue of “extreme significance” needing “prompt and immediate” measures. It said the petitioner alleged that SPPs had not been appointed in the states of Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab,  , Maharashtra, Tripura, Haryana, Mizoram,   and   and the Union territories of   and Andaman & Nicobar Islands.
 
 Section 32 of Pocso Act provides, “The state government shall, by notification in the official gazette, appoint a special public prosecutor for every special court for conducting cases only under the provisions of this Act.”
 
 The bench said, “We consider it just and appropriate to direct the registry of the Supreme Court to transmit to the high courts of above states, the desire of the SC that the chief justices of the high courts will initiate suo motu action for implementation of Section 32 of the Pocso Act regarding appointment of special public prosecutors. 
 
 The high courts may also examine available infrastructure so that child friendly atmosphere is provided in the concerned courts where Pocso cases are taken up for hearing.”
 
