KUNERU/ VIZIANAGARAM:   (NIA) sleuths who visited the Hirakhand Express accident site in Vizianagaram district on Monday ruled out the possibility of an   (IED) being used to trigger the mishap.

 “There is no indication of an IED blast,“ NIA sources told TOI. In all, 39 persons were killed in the mishap late on Saturday night. The condition of 12 people admitted at King George Hospital in Vizag continues to be serious.
 
 
  
 
 Even as IED was ruled out, NIA sources said it is too early to say whether there was an ISI or Maoist hand behind the accident. “Forensic experts have gathered a lot of material evidence from the spot. They will analyse it at FSLs in Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam. Only after that can we completely rule out a human hand in the mishap,“ an NIA official said. NIA is already probing the alleged role of Pakistan's ISI in the Indore-Patna Express derailment near Kanpur that claimed 150 lives. It was roped in to probe the Kuneru mishap to assess the possible involvement of terrorists or Maoists.
 
 
 
 On Monday , a team of AP CID also visited the accident site. “We are not ruling out any possibility till the forensic report is out,“ AP CID chief Ch Dwaraka Tirumala Rao said. FSL experts will analyse the pieces of railway track to see if it was cut with the help of a hacksaw or whether it got broken due to the derailment.The   has transferred the accident case registered by the Vizianagaram Government Railway Police (GRP) to the AP CID.
 
 Both the NIA and CID teams quizzed several persons, including train driver DN Raju and guard L Lakshmana Rao. Tirumala Rao told the media that five probe teams have been constituted. “One team will investigate the explosive angle, the second will probe whether any chemicals were involved, a third will inquire into the technical angle. The clues team will examine post mortem reports and the fifth team will question injured persons,“ he said.
 
 Railway authorities confirmed on Monday that the death toll stood at 39 and that all the bodies have been identified.Contrary to the earlier reports that eight of the victims were from AP , only four were from the state -M. Krishna (35) and P Pillai (21) of Chinna Kudama in Vizianagaram, Kosuru Ravi Kumar (20) of Rangala Veedhi in Viziangaram and Yella Krishna Murthy (70) of Gopalapatnam in Vizag city . Ex gratia of `2 lakh each was handed over to the family members by the railway officials.
 
