TRICHY: In an attempt to avert accidents caused by drivers dosing off at the wheels and also save fuel consumption, TN state transport corporation buses in   will soon be fitted with a “safety speed control unit”. The device developed by a technical employee at the corporation’s Kumbakonam divisional office in   district has passed muster in some vehicles. The unit has now been fitted to a Chennai-bound corporation bus on a pilot basis and is reportedly serving its purpose well.

 R C  , 42, a mechanic at the Kumbakonam TNSTC workshop, says he has been nursing a strong urge to help avert accidents and save lives as he has been regularly attending to buses involved in accidents. “According to Road and   (RTMC), most of the accidents are due to human error. I observed that it was the driver who caused most of the accidents and much depended on his alertness,” he said.
 
 Many drivers had also told him that most of the accidents occurred during the early hours when they tend to doze off at the wheels. When a person falls asleep while driving a vehicle, he or she would unknowingly be accelerating the vehicle to the maximum leading to accidents, Durai said. “When a person deviates from the normal way of safe driving, a green light that is fixed beside the switch box on the right side of his cabin will blink. This happens when the safety device fitted to a fuel injection pump recognises fluctuations in fuel flow based on changes in the acceleration. Subsequently, if the fluctuation continues, the alarm which is also installed near the green light, goes off. This will caution the driver to correct his driving”, he added. 
 
 Though all corporation buses are equipped with a speed control device, its role is to stop the fuel flow when the vehicle crosses 70 kmph and will not help bring the vehicle under control. It will not also raise any alarm during the process. Thus, anything can happen before the driver takes control of the situation, he said.
 
 “When a vehicle is operated without violating any safety norms, it would ultimately bring down fuel consumption too to an extent. The crew of the Trichy - Chennai bus on which the device is fixed said they have managed to save 10 litres of fuel. Earlier they had been using 110 litres of diesel to cover 600 km”, he said. Durai has also secured the patent for his device. 
 
 When contacted, K Elango, general manager, TNSTC, Kumbakonam division, told TOI that the device had proven its worth in averting accidents and saving fuel. “Since it needs certain modifications, we have asked Oomadurai to make the required alteration. Once it is done, we have planned to fit it on all our buses”, he said.
 
 The device will be fitted with Fuel Injection Control Pump. On the basis of acceleration given by the driver, the fuel flow will also fluctuate. When the driver pressing accelerator in an improper way, the flow of fuel will also change. When the fuel injection control pump recognize fluctuation in fuel flow, the new device connected with the control pump also detected some abnormal flow of fuel and subsequently make the green light to blink first. Then the fluctuation continues, the alarm will sounds on the second stage. 
 
 
 
 When a driver breaches safety norms, the device sounds alarm 
 
 Subsequently, a green light blinks to caution the driver
 
 Device costs Rs 2,000 as against existing speed control unit which cost Rs 5000 to Rs 6000. 
 
 It is fitted with fuel injection pump
 
 Will not disturb passengers as its sounds fall within 20 decibels
 
 Helps crew drive the vehicle steadily
 
 When a bus is being operated steadily, it will not emanate black smoke
 
 Existing speed control unit will not caution driver, only stop fuel flow on breaching speed norm
 
 
