BHOPAL:   are getting ready to replicate famous ' ' in New Delhi. The main architect of the protest,   aka Kakkaji, has brought together farmer leaders from many states and plans to hold a meet in Bhopal on January 11 under banner of   to work out a strategy. 

 The farmers, demanding a complete waiver of farm loans and implementation of the Swaminathan commission report, plan to choke streets of the national capital in coming days. In 2010, Kakkaji led farmers, who came in thousands by tractor trolleys in Bhopal from across the state to stage protest in front of chief minister  's residence and brought Bhopal to a standstill for over three days in what was dubbed as 'Operation 20/12' and considered one of biggest intelligence failures. 
 
 A peasant leader with huge backing of agriculturists, Kakkaji has been travelling to states aiming to bring together powerful leaders under one umbrella to protest against Centre's policies. 
 
 "Bhopal is going to host first meeting of the revolutionary movement. We have already got confirmation from 19 states, including one from north eastern side," said Kakkaji, a national convenor of Rasthriya Kisan Mahasangh and national president of Rasthriya Kisan Majdoor Sangh. "This time, there won't be tractors. Farmers would reach Delhi using various modes of transport," he said in a lighter vein.
 
  During 2010 Bhopal agitation, local administration, police and the ruling party were taken by surprise as nearly one lakh farmers from all over the state drove tractor-trolleys into Bhopal city. They shocked everyone turning their convention into an indefinite dharna and road block at prominent locations of the state capital forcing government to accept 50 out of 183 demands in 48 hours. Demands included a minimum 12-hour power supply to rural areas, fertilisers, good quality seeds and a substantial return for their produce and water. 
 
 This time, district collector allotted   to Rasthriya Kisan Mahasangh for their convention. But when they came to know that brain behind this convention was Kakkaji, the allotment was immediately cancelled.
 
 
