It’s being touted as the biggest fashion trend of recent years, and it’s here to stay. In fact,  , is not just a trend anymore, it has become more of a lifestyle option. The technical definition is casual wear that can be worn both for exercising and general purposes. However, we feel that the definition doesn’t do justice to this blessing of a trend. Why? Well, because, in a world that’s increasingly leaving us pressed for time, and comfort, this trend seamlessly blends our two biggest requirements — practicality and fashion. So, you look trendy without having to worry about high-heel blisters or an accidental show of sideboobs.
 While the trend has been in place all of last year, we predict it will stay put this year too, and only get brighter an quirkier. In fact, for the Mumbai summers, and the upcoming rains, we advise you take a refresher of your athleisure style and how to blend it with the   that this city offers.
 The thing with athleisure is that, it complements street-style, which adds colour and fun to boring gym clothes. Says  , an actress and stylist, “It’s a fun way of clothing and crazy comfortable. It can go mad colourful and there are no rules. I usually wear it with my printed joggers and monotone gunjees and high sneakers!” Ooh, bye bye denim-chafing and chub rubs. For VJ and fitness freak  , this trend has been her go-to choice for even before it was a trend. “I am in athleisure almost every day. I have no choice of course while working out but I even travel like that. It makes up 80% of my wardrobe,” she grins.
 
 
 1. Get your bralettes, crop tops and 
 ganjees out.
 2. Next, make sure your sneakers and slides are in place. To make it interesting, buy colourful laces to add an edge to your white converse.
 3. Printed leggings and tracks that speak your style.
 4. You might need to sneak a shirt or two of your dad or boyfriend, to tie across your waist for a chic look.
 5. Put away the shrugs and replace them with jackets for some shrobing.
 
 
 
  
 1 Do not show up for a job interview in athleisure, even if 
 you are a spitting image of  .
 2 For the upcoming rains, replace the jackets with raincoats. And the sneakers with crocs, rubber flats open toe flatforms.
 3 Tie the hair up in a top knot. Or a half top knot, which makes this trend look uber cool (Check out   below). Boxer braids are another hairstyle that is in perfect sync with this trend. Says makeup artiste  , “You can slay this look by keeping it minimal. No heavy accessories, hair neatly braided, makeup natural and fresh, lips nude. Play around with different styles of braids.”
 4 If the leggings feel too sticky during the monsoons, shorts can be your best friend.
 5 Yes, your tracks are the basic of this trend. However, mix and match your gymwear elements with other casual items. Don’t go out dressed head to toe in your tracksuit.
 6 For a more dressy athleisure, you can pair your tracks or leggings with a pair of booties. They add the pizzazz and yet, keep you high on the comfort meter. Your inspiration:  .
 7 If you are into socks, compliment your monotone kicks with crazy printed ones. Pull on a calf-length leggings and your socks will be doing wonders.
 8 For a fun evening, layer your knee-length dress with a summer jacket and put on the classic white sneakers. 
 9 Add a cap. It makes a regular outfit pop, just like that!
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
