NEW DELHI: Wednesday’s cross-examination of finance minister   by   ended abruptly after the veteran lawyer used defamatory language against the BJP leader and defiantly brushed aside protests claiming he had used the expression on instructions of his client, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.

 Jethmalani, representing Kejriwal in the   brought against the Delhi CM by Jaitley, started the cross- examination but soon addressed the finance minister as a “crook”, triggering heated exchanges between the two.
 
 The hearing also saw the court of Jt Registrar   disallowing five out of the seven questions asked by Jethmalani.
 
 Angered by Jethmalani’s use of defamatory expressions, Jaitley demanded to know if it was on instructions from his client Kejriwal. "If this is so, I would aggravate the charges against the defendant," Jaitley warned, saying there is a limit to personal malice.
 
 In response, Jethmalani maintained he “used the word on instructions from his client” and added that “he (Jethmalani) received the instructions in his meetings with the client for the purpose of this matter in absence of the instructing counsel”.
 
 However,  , advocate on record for Kejriwal since the beginning of the suit and who is also the instructing counsel, clarified before the jt registrar that he had no instruction on the use of this word.
 
 Senior advocates Rajiv Nayar and  , appearing for Jaitley, slammed Jethmalani for using scandalous language. They told the court that the senior lawyer should restrain himself from asking irrelevant questions "as this matter is Arun Jaitley versus Arvind Kejriwal and not Ram Jethmalani versus Arun Jaitley". 
 
 Jaitley has filed the civil defamation suit seeking Rs 10 crore damages from Kejriwal and five other AAP leaders — Raghav Chadha, Kumar Vishwas, Ashutosh, Sanjay Singh and Deepak Bajpai — for accusing him of financial irregularities in DDCA of which he was the president from 2000 to 2013.
 
 The verbal exchange between Jethmalani and Jaitley began when Kejriwal’s lawyer asked a question in the form of the allegation that Jaitley had blocked publication of an article authored by him on irregularities in DDCA in a weekly magazine.
 
 Jethmalani said the article referred to alleged corruption in DDCA during the period when Jaitley was its president.
 
 The jt registrar disallowed the question pointing out that she had already termed the article irrelevant on Monday on the ground that it has no relevance to the current proceedings.
 
 However, Jehtmalani persisted and maintained that the article had been killed from the publication at Jaitley’s behest. He then alleged that the finance minister is “guilty of crimes and crookery” , drawing once again angry response from the minister’s legal team. The lawyers strongly opposed the choice of words by Jethmalani, saying he must stop insulting the minister.
 
 With Jethmalani continuing with his defamatory attack, the jt registrar too objected to it and warned that the senior lawyer and other lawyers should allow the court to proceed.
 
 At this stage, Kejriwal’s counsel sought a deferment of the the hearing as angry exchanges continued between both sides. The court then listed the matter for further cross-examination on July 28 and 31 when it will record Jaitley's statement. 
 
 On Monday, Jethmalani had dragged in the name of Prime Minister  . In his cross-examination Jethmalani questioned Jaitley why the BJP leader had not listed the PM as a witness to testify to his reputation, a query that was disallowed by the court.
 
 “Since you are a minister in the Cabinet, the best character witness for you should be the Prime Minister himself. Do you intent to examine him?” Jethmalani asked. 
 
 But the court intervened to disallow the question pointing out that the list of witnesses for Jaitley is already on record. 
 
 
