Bengaluru: The conviction rate in the state with regard to cases of atrocities committed against members of   (SCs) and   (STs) plummeted to 3% this year (up to March).

 Data accessed from the State-Level Vigilance and Monitoring Committee set up to oversee the implementation of SCs and STs (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, pointed to the falling conviction rate: While it was 6% in 2015, it dropped to 5% in 2016 and has stopped at 3% in the first three months this year.
 
 The low conviction rate in atrocity cases has been viewed by chief minister Siddaramaiah as a “serious lapse” as it comes at a time when his government is leaving no stone unturned in appeasing the   vote bank, which forms about 24% of the state’s electorate. Atrocity cases refer to insulting SC/ST members, physical attacks against them, preventing them from using common properties such as burial grounds, wells and rivers, banning their entry into temples or ostracizing them by regulating their entry into restaurants or hair cutting salons.
 
 What is more appalling is the fact that the conviction rate has been low despite special courts having been set up in eight districts across the state. In fact, the conviction rate in special courts at Raichur is 0%, in Belagavi 1% and in Vijayapura 3%.
 
 Miffed by the low conviction rate, Siddaramaiah had pulled up senior officials of the police, prosecution and social welfare departments. A source in the chief minister’s office (CMO) attributed it to lapses in police investigation, witnesses turning hostile and false allegations. While directing officials to ensure that investigations are done meticulously, the CM suggested that law minister T B Jayachandra speak to high court judges and request them to approve an additional seven special courts to try atrocity cases.
 
 Though the CM’s concern over the dismal conviction rate is acceptable, a source in the Congress maintained that any “additional thrust” to the issue would backfire for the party at the grassroots, as caste dynamics play a vital role at the hustings. “This should not result in false atrocity cases being filed against people from other castes, we cannot afford to anger the non-Ahinda vote bank, especially in rural areas, in the run-up to assembly polls next year,” a minister told TOI.
 
 
