MUMBAI: The   led by CM   is set to revoke the letter of intent granted to controversial developer,  , for redevelopment of slums on   plot. In lieu of the massive FSI for redevelopment of slums, Chamankar had agreed to construct Maharashtra Sadan in New Delhi, High Mount Guest House in south Mumbai and staff quarters at Andheri RTO.
 
 SRA had accepted his proposal for redevelopment of slums in Anna Nagar, Kasam Nagar and Vithal Rukmini Nagar in 1999. The letter of intent was granted on October 27, 2004 for one slums and on June 26, 2006 for two other slums. Amended letter of intent was granted on July 9, 2007 and March 27, 2012.
  
 On January 12, 2017, SRA CEO Vishwas Patil served a notice on Chamankar enterprises, PS Chamankar and associates and all the promoters of the cooperative housing societies set up by the slum dwellers, asking why a new developer should not be appointed for completing the project. Under rule 13(2) of the Slum Rehabilitation Rules, 1971, SRA has powers to appoint a new developer for development of slums if the developer who has been granted letter of intent fails to complete the project.
  
 According to a senior SRA official, Patil has completed the quasi-judicial process, he had heard the promoters of the housing societies, the developer and the architect. “Now Patil has to pass an order," he said.
  
 The developer has to rehabilitate 204 hutments in Anna Nagar, 159 in Kasam Nagar and 99 in Vithal Rukmini Nagar. In his notice, Patil said 10 years after the letter of intent was granted, the work has not been completed. “You have failed to provide hutments to the slum dwellers, as a result, the basic purpose of the scheme has failed. Under such circumstances, show cau se as to why action under rule 13 (2) should not be taken against you," Patil said in his notice.
  
 Even as the dispute between SRA and the developer was on, Fadnavis had granted permission to the anti-corruption bureau to conduct an open probe into corruption in the Maharashtra Sadan case. Following CM's order, the ACB on June 8, 2015 registered a case against former PWD minister Chhagan Bhujbal, his son Pankaj, nephew Sameer, Chamankars and high-ranking officers of the public works department for causing a loss of Rs 749 crore to the exchequer.
  
 On SRA 's notice, Chamankar has said his organisation was not at all responsible for the delay. “The scheme was halted due to pending decision from the PWD's Superintending Engineer, due to which SRA was not issuing permissions to start the construction of work of rehabilitation and sale building. Housing minister Prakash Mehta did ask all the concerned bureaucrats to convene a meeting.In fact, a few meetings were held at the minister level for completion of works. While there was no progress in the orders issued by the minister, SRA issued a show cause notice," he said.
 
