JAIPUR: It is not just the office-bearers of the state BJP that party national president   will meet during his three-day visit to Jaipur. The party has also invited sants from all over Rajasthan to meet Shah who will seek their advice and blessings.

 Replying to a question at a press conference on Thursday, BJP state president   said that Shah, who begins his visit today, would also meet sants from the state. “We have invited only sants from Rajasthan and not outside,” he said.
 
 When asked if the party wanted to showcase its Hindutva agenda by inviting sants to meet the party president, he said BJP had always believed in Hindutva, which continues to be the core ideology of the party, though Prime Minister   had given the new slogan of “development’’.
 
 Parnami said that all arrangements for the meet have been completed. He released a minute-by-minute account of the programme.
 
 As reported it was confirmed that Shah would have lunch at a Dalit home on the last day of his tour on July 23 in Jaipur. Apart from a short visit to Delhi to attend the felicitation function of the newly-elected President of India, Ram  , on July 22, Shah would remain in Jaipur for three days, he said.
 
 Parnami said the party president would return to Jaipur on the same day after attending the function in Delhi. The party office where the meetings have been scheduled and the   where the party president will stay have been given a facelift.
 
 Though it’s mainly a party affair, the ministers will give presentations highlighting the achievement of the BJP government in the state. The ministerial groups have been formed to give presentations highlighting the achievements in various sectors.
 
 The only outdoor activity planned outside the party office is the interaction with the intelligentsia scheduled to be held at   on July 21 evening between 4pm and 6pm.
 
 In a goof up ahead of Amit Shah's three-day visit to Rajasthan, BJP state president Ashok Parnami canceled appointment of ministers and board chairpersons as the party's spokespersons. As per constitution, ministers and board chairpersons cannot be spokesperson of a political party. On July 19, Parnami appointed seven ministers, Jaipur mayor and chairpersons of the state women commission and the state finance commission as BJP spokesperson. Late Thursday night, Parnami issued a statement cancelling the appointments citing constitutional restrictions.
 
 
