PUNE: In a bid to make way for more infrastructure projects with the state government's ease of doing business, they have issued a   which will ensure conversion of agriculture land to non-agriculture land in just one month. The procedure which would take months and many rounds to the revenue departments, will be made easy with an amendment being made in the   1966 (MLRC), which states that certification of non-agriculture land will not be required for a land for which development plan for the area is approved. An ordinance was issued in this regard to delete sections 42 B and 44 C of the MLRC which require a landowner to obtain permissions from the collector to convert and carry out a non-agriculture assessment of his land.

 The permissions for conversion usually takes months and with the new amendment in the MLRC, things will speed up for those applying for the same, stated a senior revenue official. The process was pending from last year where the revenue department had called to make the necessary amendments to make way for infrastructure projects in the state. The change means the land is reserved for a certain purpose in the development plan of the corporation so permissions of the Collector will not be needed for the  .
 
 The agriculture land has to be converted into   before starting with any development work. The GR issued on January 5, states that if the charges are paid_conversion tax, non-agriculture fee and other taxes, then the land should be converted for non-agriculture purpose within 30 days of all the necessary payments.
 
 The GR states that the receipts of such payments would be considered as valid proof in   procedure. The land in the state is broadly categorized for agriculture and non-agriculture certification and the delay in conversion was delaying many infrastructure projects which were sanctioned, stated revenue officials. The officials stated that the amendment was made to clear up the pendency of such projects without facing any administrative delay.
 
