Ahmedabad: In the 2011 edition of Saptak, Pandit Birju Maharaj — the kathak icon whose art is an epic katha by itself — noticed a nail or two on the stage. He summoned stagehands to pound in the irritants only after his opening presentation ended. “Musicians can cover nails with a mattress, dancers have a problem,” Panditji said pithily. The audience loved his sangfroid. Faces of many rasikas from 2011 were seen on Day 2 of the 2017 edition, on Monday, when Panditji took the stage for the final baithak.

 For Saptak veterans, these remembrances enclose great art in everyday grace — and grace, after all, is the tune of a life lived with beauty. 
 
 In fact,  , who ruled the second baithak, opened her vocal recital with her customary notes of high refinement. She turned to look at her tanpura accompanists and nodded at them to ask if she could begin. That gesture has always been the prelude to her performances, sounding the flourish of compassion and humility.
 
 Mudgal elucidated Bihag and the composition was “Laalan vaaroon tore mukh par shat shat Madan chhavi” (the import: child Krishna’s beauty is so infinite that even Madan or Kamadev’s beauty pales in comparison). Tabla maestro Aneesh Pradhan, Mudgal’s longtime collaborator, told TOI: “She had planned to present Raga Darbari Kanada, but at the last moment we settled on Bihag.” That change exemplifies the versatility of Indian classical traditions: programming is determined not by rehearsed sureties but by sudden inklings. 
 
 In Mudgal’s paean, devotion was set aflame not by her vocal mastery alone but also by her capacity to recall some divine revelation of beauty.  , the   idol, told TOI in an electronic exchange: “Bihag brims with the shringar ras, denoting romance, and is also suffused with spirituality.”
 
 Of her own raga choice, Vidushi Manju Mehta, the Saptak custodian who opened Day 2, told TOI: “I had first played Bageshri long ago with Pandit Kishan Maharaj. I had not played it recently.” Pandit Kishan Maharaj is the Banaras Gharana tabla legend. Those who have seen that concert will have another great backstory to share in the Saptak venue’s forecourt, with chai or paan.
 
