LUCKNOW: Elections in UP are a battle, literally, if the number of gun holders is anything to go by. Infamous for violence during election time, the state has more individuals possessing a gun than the entire police force of the state. 

 According to  , 10.76 lakh commoners in the state have a gun compared to just 2.30 lakh police personnel who have a firearm—that is more than five times the figure. 
 
 Even when compared to other states, UP takes a very comfortable lead. Punjab, with 4.50 lakh licensed firearms, is a distant second. Madhya Pradesh is at the third spot with 2.70 lakh such licences. 
 
 Across India, 26 lakh licence holders were registered with the   by July 2016. 
 
 With poll dates announced, the police department recently carried out a survey to identify arms licence holders across the 75 districts of the state. They found that in 14 districts, arms licence had been issued to more than 20,000 people. The situation was more alarming in west UP, where the proportion of such people to population was quite high.
 
 An analysis of numbers shows that gun culture was very popular in the Yadav bastion of Etah and Mainpuri districts where the density of gun-toting people was highest. For example, while in Kanpur, one out of 168 individuals possess a gun, in Etah and Mainpuri one in 58 and 77 persons, respectively, flaunts a gun.
 
 The Awadh region, considered laidback and urbanized, is not far behind regions of Poorvanchal, Bundelkhand, Rohilkhand and west UP (upper, middle and lower Doab). In Lucknow, one in 81 people has an arms licence.
 
 “More than for security, guns are used as a status symbol in UP. In Chambal region, people are so obsessed with a firearm that they often sell their land holdings to buy rifles. A person without a gun is considered an outcast in some villages,” said former DGP Shri Ram Arun.
 
 High court advocate Rohit Kant said, “Criminals-turned-politicians have a tendency to intimidate voters. They move around with supporters carrying guns in a convoy of vehicles. They are unable to get over the feudal gun culture.”
 
 Between September 2015 and February 2016, 12 cases of violence were reported in UP during panchayat polls. According to the   (ADR), in the 2012 assembly polls, 340 candidates in the fray had serious criminal cases against them. These included murder, attempt to murder, kidnapping, robbery and extortion. 
 
 Celebratory firing is another menace the state is well aware of. In 2013, the high court came down heavily on the state government over the increasing number of deaths caused due to celebratory firing incidents. 
 
 With 5,730 people with licensed guns facing criminals charges, the court had directed the government to reduce the number of licensees.
 
 DGP S Javeed Ahmad said, “We have been extra cautious while dealing with applicants for the past year. Those seeking licences as family heir are the only ones who have been entertained. The numbers of licence holders has come down from 11.23 lakh in 2013 to 10.76 lakh at present.” 
 
