NAGPUR: An   revealed that the   Redressal Forum, looking after cases in  , received maximum   and developers who had duped people.

 The reply by manager stated that 432 complainants, who had filed cases against builders and developers, were granted respite in the last few years. Maximum complaints were received from areas like Besa, Beltarodi, Hingna and Wadi, where a large number of flat and plot schemes have mushroomed in the last decade, flouting all norms.
 
 A PIL is also pending in the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court regarding large-scale violations in various flat schemes at Besa Beltarodi, where even the government had admitted that builders failed to provide proper parking area, fire safety measures and other mandatory facilities.
 
 There were also serious violations of floor space index (FSI) by the builders who had taken no-objection certificates (NOCs) from the Gram Panchayat Sarpanch, who badly lacks knowledge regarding rules and regulations, instead of regulatory bodies like NIT.
 
 According to forum registrar Rajesh Bhaskare, there was continuous rise in cases against builders and developers in the last few years. “Our court has jurisdiction outside city limits, particularly areas coming under Gram Panchayats and outside octroi limits,” he said. 
 
 The reply to a query by activist Abhay Kolarkar further revealed that complaints against insurance companies are also on the rise. The forum started functioning from December 22, 1994, and in a span of 22 years, it had successfully solved 5,023 cases.
 
 Usually, consumer forums are known for its verdicts in people’s favour, but this year’s statistics of additional forum threw a big surprise. Of the 490 cases, 227 were pronounced against customers, while 243 were in their favour. In previous years, the verdicts were overwhelmingly in favour of consumers. Bhaskare clarified that it may be due to 899 cases transferred by the city forum to them in 2015-16.
 
 The reply mentioned that about 1,036 cases are pending in the additional forum while fine was levied in six cases. Highest fine of Rs10,000 was levied against an accused who was also sentenced to six-month simple imprisonment.
 
 The number of filing of cases has also increased in the last five years. There was a quantum jump from 192 cases in 2014 to 324 in 2015. This year till November 30, about 349 cases were filed. Even the revenue is on the higher side in the last few years except 2013 and 2014 when it was slightly dipped in comparison to 2012. Interestingly, there is not a single vacancy of either a judge of staff in this forum, unlike other courts.
 
