CHENNAI: Among over 30 Indian origin innovators, entrepreneurs and leaders who are part of the 2017 edition of Forbes’ list of super achievers under the age of 30 is Chennai-origin boy  . The 27-year-old is the cofounder of  , that has developed a portable phototherapy device for jaundice that can be used at home. “It is quite an honour to be part of this list,” said Kopparthi.

 After completing his schooling at DAV and   in Chennai, Kopparthi went on to pursue engineering at Meenakshi Sundararajan Engineering College. In 2013, he moved to the US where he studied at the Arizona State University.
 
 A chance look at the condition of newborns at AIIMS Delhi by a friend led to them setting up the NeoLight. “Typically, a new born infant that is affected by jaundice needs to be given care in the next 2-4 days. Else, it could lead to brain damage or death. Across the globe, over 1290 infants become victims of damage or die,” he said.
 
 The next 2.5 years went into development of a product that would be effective and economical as compared to the bulky devices available in the market. With seed funding from the university and other investors, NeoLight has developed a black sleep slab (similar to a chopping board) which can run on battery or solar. “It is 43% quicker than existing products and is almost 90% cheaper,” he says.
 
 With 12 engineers across two offices in the state of Arizona, Kopparthi is targeting US and India as his primary markets. “Africa has a big incidence of jaundice and we will go there soon,” Kopparthi said.
 
 Kopparthi is not restricting himself to jaundice alone. They are now working on solutions for infant hypothermia and infant sleep apnea. “We are not a company that is after money. We are a company that creates social good,” said Kopparthi.
 
 Kopparthi will be in India next month with a single point agenda. “I am visiting multiple schools, colleges and universities. A Lot of people think there are only two options - get a job or go for higher studies. Not many know that entrepreneurship exists. I am here to tell them that if you have an idea, be bold and pursue it,” he says.
 
