KOCHI: Indian athletes are having a golden run at the Kalinga Stadium in Bhubaneswar in the Asian Athletics Championships. But the least expected of those yellow metals came on Friday from a lithe girl from Mundur, a non-descript village in Palakkad district in Kerala. Twenty-two–year-old   braved the rain and surpassed all expectations to clinch gold in   stopping the clock at 4.17.92 seconds.

 In the process, Chitra sliced off nearly seven seconds from her personal best to seal the   berth. Her superlative show in Kalinga Stadium has earned Chitra the tag, ‘queen of Asia in the mile’. “Of course, I did not expect gold. My personal time before this was around 4 minutes 24 seconds which I did last year. This time I won the Federation Cup gold to make it to the national squad. Before entering the track, all I wanted was a medal as usual. But in the final, with 250m to go for the finish, I got a sudden energy and surged ahead and finished first. It was like surreal and it was great to be called Asian queen in the mile,” said Chitra, the third daughter among four children of daily wage earning parents.
 
 “I was disappointed that I could not speak to my coach ( ) who came all the way from Mundur to Bhubaneswar to motivate me. He did not have the official coach’s pass to be at the dedicated zone for coaches. I just spoke to him before dope test team took me away. But he deserves a lot of credit for my success,” Chitra told TOI over the phone from Bhubaneswar.
 
 Chitra, will be the third Keralite after OP Jaisha and Preeja Sreedharan to represent India in 1500m at the world championships, was realistic about her London dreams. “I’ll try my level best. I hope to maintain form,” she said.
 
 For the past 10 years, Chitra has been trained by Sijin, a physical education teacher at her alma mater Mundur HSS. And the coach is ecstatic after her ward’s exploits in Bhubaneswar. “For villagers like us, sky is the limit. I'm proud of Chitra’s performance and I'm more than glad that a physical education teacher like me could mould an athlete from a village with limited facilities to the world stage,” said Sijin, an award-winning physical education teacher of the Kerala government.
 
 Off the track, Chitra aims to grab a job and support her parents. “I hope I get a state government job as soon as possible. That’s my priority. I have done my best now and it’s for others to recognise it and do the rest,” said the college student VTB College, Sreekrisnapuram who also appeared for trials with Central Excise in Chennai last month.
 
 
 
 
