NOIDA: More than 100 students of DPS Sector 132 face dismissal from the school as their results were withheld on Friday and their parents have been directed to either deposit the fees or face action.

 Simultaneously, the commissioner of Meerut region, Alok Sinha, has directed the joint education director (Meerut zone), Mahendra Dev, to issue a show-cause notice to the school. Sinha’s move followed a meeting the aggreived parents had with with him on Thursday. Five such notices have been issued to the school in the recent past.
 
 “A reply will be sought from the school and a decision will be taken on the no objection certificate (NOC) to the school if the response is not satisfactory,” Sinha told TOI.
 
 According to the parents, the results of 112 students (68 in Class I and 44 in Class II) have been withheld and the list has been displayed on the notice board of the school which also has the promotion list of the students in classes I and II. Parents of the 112 students included the 40 who received an ultimatum by email on Tuesday giving them time until March 31.
 
 Parents fear that the list of students whose results are withheld could be longer as the results for classes III to VIII are still awaited.
 
 The school authorities said results have been withheld for all students who have not deposited the fees even for one quarter.
 
 “I had visited the school for the annual day event and was shocked to see the promotion list which had a small note saying that those whose results have been withheld will have to contact the accounts department,” said a parent whose child studies in Class V.
 
 The school had sent emails to the parents who had refused to submit the fees hiked by 14% in the 2016-17 session. They had offered to pay the fees in keeping with the old fee structure.
 
 On Friday, at least 10 parents cleared their arrears while many others are thinking of changing their child’s school.
 
 Indira Kohli, principal, DPS Sector 132, said, “Forty parents have received the mail but results have been withheld of those who have not paid fees for one, two, or three quarters or the entire year.” She said the students would be dismissed from the school if the fees were not paid.
 
