For the first time in the history of the country, the innermost details of what happened to 19 soldiers, who  , will come to light.

 The   released on Tuesday rare documents pertaining to the execution of these   (INA) soldiers. Details that are in the book will not be found in any   or private documents.
 
 The book Unsung Freedom Struggle highlights the sacrifice of 19 soldiers, whose trial and execution was carried out secretly in an unknown place.
 
 Details of such clandestine operations by the British Raj against Indian Freedom fighters were made available to the Karnataka government by litterateur, cultural thinker and retired judge Ko Chennabasappa. The State Archives Wing of the Kannada and Culture Department has published the details of the trial and the clever tactics adopted by the British judicial system to punish Indian soldiers even though there was no formal law or act under which they could be prosecuted.
 
 Offshore attack
 
 The documents record the brave acts of 19 jawans of INA in September 1942. “They were a group of young men from humble backgrounds. While a few of them had worked as clerks and labourers in rubber estates, a few others worked as naval subordinate staff in the forests. All of them were trained by the Japanese to gather information about the war efforts and strengths of the British in India. While one team landed at Tanur on Malabar Coast, the other landed at Kathiawar Coast in September 1942 in rubber rafts. Their plan was to launch an attack against the British. But, they were arrested and the British investigated the development of espionage by Indians in favour of their enemies. They were put on trial under the Enemy Agents Ordinance Act of 1943! While a few of them were sentenced to death, a few others were acquitted. The death sentence was carried out secretly and nobody knows whether they were burnt or buried,” Chennabasappa said.
 
 According to the book, the trial was carried out by special judge Justice EE Mack who served as district judge of Ballari between 1937 and 1947. The Karnataka government said that it was an extraordinary case as the judge had to conduct trial in the absence of a suitable act that was brought into force at a later date.
 
 “On the dates of commission of the offence in September 1942, there was no law in existence in India under which the accused could be put on trial. An ordinance was conceived, framed and promulgated in January 1943 under which the accused were framed. Evidently the chargesheet was filed in February 1943. Hence the judge was confused whether the ordinance must be passed with retrospective effect in criminal cases. In this case, death was the only punishment with no discretion to the court. Holding the scale of justice between the Crown and the accused, the judge had taken greater care and passed the order,” Chennabasappa said.
 
 The leader of the team CGK Reddy, a marine engineer with the British Raj, was taken as a prisoner by the Japanese and handed over to the Indian Independence League set up by Ras Bihari Bose, who further handed them over to INA of Subhash Chandra Bose. With the Quit India movement reaching greater heights, Reddy and his men had decided to launch an attack from outside. The judge dug deep into the family history of every accused besides classifying them on religion grounds. With a few sharing acquaintance with known freedom fighters, the judge had raised doubts that how could such people act as traitor against their own country?
 
 Of the 19 accused, eight each were Hindus and Christians while two were Muslims and one jawan was a Sikh. Even though the trial was held secretly and out of bounds for anybody in the government, the British Crown had allowed the accused to appoint advocates for defence. A few of them were defended by famous advocates of Madras V Rajagopalacharya, G Chandrashekara Shastri, KM Kasturi of Madras Bar and NM Sastri of Ballari Bar. “They were charged with entering India as enemy agents of the Government of Japan punishable under Section 3 of the Enemy Agents Ordinance of 1943. This apart, they were also charged with conspiracy to deprive his majesty the king emperor of the sovereignty of British India by aiding and assisting Government of Japan punishable under section 121 of the IPC,” the book revealed.
 
 “While the accused pleaded they were not guilty, the court found that five people were guilty under the ordnance and ordered each to suffer to death. Four others were subjected to rigorous imprisonment for five years term. The rest were acquitted,” the book revealed.
 
 British fund the new life
 
 While no court or government orders financial help to the acquitted, the special judge was generous enough to order the British government to fund their life! “The accused whom I have acquitted be given some money on their release to enable them to make a fresh start in life in India. All the Japanese money recovered from the accused be confiscated and surrendered to the government for disposal. As the CID had made special requests, the rubber rafts seized from the team will be handed over to the CID for placement in a police museum,” the judge ordered in his verdict.
 
 
 WHO THEY WERE
 
 VMA Khadir, SA Anand (Thanu Pillay), Mohamed Ghani, KA George, CP Eapen, Leon D’cruz, SC Bardhan, Boniface B Pereira, K Malathi Mammen, CGM Reddy, A Andrew, K Kochu Govindan, KM Cheriyan (CeM George), M Gangadharan, Suprabhath Rajan Paul (Nani), Phanindranath Roy, Jagadish Mitra Kaura, Fouja Singh and G Santha Pillai.
 You Might Also Like
 
