P   is the chairman of the Heritage Conservation Committee which is responsible for the preservation of the Walled City. Ghosh, as the city’s municipal commissioner in the mid-1990s, was instrumental in setting up the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation’s heritage cell. He says real work lies ahead. 

 
 
 
 Ghosh said work must now focus on ensuring that each and every heritage structure is maintained. “Proper plans will have to be made to carry out repairs required by heritage buildings in the Walled City,” he said. “Masons and restorers who can carry out this work without compromising the heritage value of buildings must be found. And finance for the mammoth task will have to be arranged.” He said micro-documentation will be done of each heritage building, highlighting anecdotal memories and history. “A museum will feature relevant artefacts showcasing the 600-year history of Ahmedabad and will portray the complex sociology of development of pols, which have unique habitational patterns,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 Ghosh acknowledged that while the Walled City has been hailed for its ‘living heritage’, it is estimated that migrants constitute 25-30% of its population. They are predominantly from Rajasthan and some are from  . “Newcomers will have to be sensitized to the great heritage they are representing,” he said. “We wish to achieve this through nukkad or street plays localized to heritage buildings.”
 
 
 
 How will the World Heritage City status benefit the people of the Walled City? Ghosh said a flood of money was unlikely. “Our study of other World Heritage sites tells us that the status will bring more tourists, more eateries, and more people — especially foreigners and NRGs — who choose homestays instead of hotels,” he said. “Most importantly, it will bring a sense of pride and belonging to local residents.”
 
 
 
 
 Ghosh said that immediate challenge was to complete the precise documentation work as mandated by Unesco. “This will include measured drawings of all heritage buildings, local area planning, and finding experts who can restore old structures using old technology.”
 
 
 
 
 Ghosh admitted that nothing can be done without money! “We are working on a modality to have separate funds for heritage conservation. Apart from that, we are fine-tuning
 
 Transfer Development Rights (TDR) by which local residents can get better incentives for selling their FSI to builders. That will help residents make enough money to undertake decent repair and renovation in their heritage homes.”
 
 
 
 
 Ghosh said that Unesco has laid down eight-odd advisories which include strengthening of the heritage department, making legal instruments more efficient, and most importantly creating a special centre for maintainence and repair of old wooden houses of immense heritage value. “Stringent norms will now be enforced to ensure that any new development in the Walled City does not damage heritage properties in any manner,” he said. “Even if repairs are undertaken, there cannot be any damage to the facade.”
 
 
 
 
 Ghosh said that   will have to be implemented in the Walled City. “Filth and garbage around a World Heritage site is unacceptable,” he said. “We may outsource the cleaning activities.”
 
