Chennai: Ilaya Bharathi of Preston Education Consultancy is finding himself in a peculiar situation. Where every year Bharathi has hundreds of students aspiring to study in the US, in the last few weeks about 27 students, who were applying to Columbia and Berkeley University, have changed their minds and are applying to Ireland — a country which allows students to stay on with a two-year work permit after graduation. As Trump’s protectionist moves create ripples across the globe, the large international student community seems to be the next in his line of fire.

 According to news reports, the Trump administration is looking to cut the time students in the US can stay on in the country after they finish their studies at American universities. Currently, optional practical training (OPT) extensions for graduates with STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) allow about 1.6 lakh Indian students to stay on for one to three years after they graduate. These students might have to return home as soon as they graduate if President Trump’s proposals for change kick in.
 
 Navin Chopra, chairman, The Chopras, said, “Every year, I send 12,000-13,000 students to various countries, of which US bound-students form the largest percentage. Of this, 15-18% of my clientele are Muslims, who are extremely concerned over recent developments.”
 
 Students are also shifting gears midway. Last year, Bharathi’s firm sent 130 students overseas. “About 90% of them are calling me today as they are worried about their stay. They are consulting me on options for another Masters programme, as they fear being asked to leave the minute their course gets over,” he said. His student clients are mostly engineers from IIT, BITS and MITS.
 
 With Trump’s flaming rhetoric sending shock waves, both government and universities in Canada, Ireland, Germany and Switzerland have come out in support of accepting international students, irrespective of faith. “Students are now looking at more attractive destinations such as Australia, Canada, Singapore, China and European countries, other than the UK,” said Chopra. In recent months, the UK has also severely restricted the stay of foreign students.
 
 According to reports about “leaked documents”, the Trump administration seems to be looking at further “monitoring of foreign students” and site visits or inspections of workplaces that employ L1 visa holders. The administration is also looking to “reform practical training programmes for foreign students to prevent the disadvantaging of US students in the workforce”.
 
 With hardline policies emerging in the US and UK, other destinations are proving more attractive. “At the top of the list is New Zealand, whose neutral political stand is a welcome reassurance for students wanting to study here,” said Edwin Paul, director, Edcorp International. “New Zealand has a unique skill demand for IT talent, specialising in food tech, design, environment.”
 
 Every year more than 20 million international students come to the US — with about 16% from India. In 2015 alone, international students from countries like China, India and Saudi Arabia contributed more than $35 billion to the US economy. That should give Trump’s administration something to pause, as Moody’s Investors Service has warned US college and universities would be under severe financial pressure if the ban persisted. 
 
 “Overseas students definitely are contributing. Parents at times invest nearly $1 million under EB5 programmes, keeping their wards’ future in mind. And if the current regime is seeking to make it more difficult for them to work after graduation, they might have to look elsewhere,” said Mark Davies, an immigration lawyer in the US.
 
 
