NEW DELHI: The   ( ) will announce Class XII exam results on Sunday , May 28. A total of 10,98,891 candidates from 10,678 schools appeared for the Class XII boards this year, which is a 2.82% point increase from last year. The exams were conducted from March 9 to April 29.

 In a statement issued by the CBSE on Friday , unlike previous years, it didn't specify the exact timing of the announcement of the result.It stated that the “Class XII results for all CBSE regions will be declared on May 28, in the forenoon“.
 
 The board will announce the results of all its 10 regions simultaneously . Delhi regions have the highest number of candidates (2,58,321), followed by Panchkula with 1,84,557 and Ajmer with 1,31,449 students. A total of 2,497 candidates with disabilities also registered for the exams this year.
 
 Candidates will be able to access their results on 
 , 
 , and 
 .
 
 The CBSE also announced that it will follow the Delhi high court's order on moderation policy . The court had ordered the CBSE to continue evaluation for Class X and XII board examinations this year as per the grace marks policy that was in vogue when the students submitted the examination forms.
 
 Under the moderation po licy, grace marks are given to the students in exams for difficult questions or errors in the question paper.
 
 The Delhi HC order led to uncertainty with reports that the board may challenge it.Earlier, Union HRD minister   had assured Class XII CBSE candidates that their result would be declared on time. The HRD ministry held a meeting with board officials and the legal counsel on Thursday evening, where a view emerged that moving the apex court may be counter-productive and may delay results if SC refuses to intervene.
 
 
 
 
 For ICSE and ISC students, the results will be available on 
  at 3 pm on Monday. Over 2.5 lakh students registered for ICSE and 1.76 lakh students appeared for ISC. This year, the council has made a provision for the candidates to apply for recheck directly through the council's website.The online module will be open from May 29 to June 4.
 
