 under   (NWR) has re ceived 26% higher budgetary allocation in the Budget announced on Wednesday compared to last year. This has encouraged officials who are now optimistic to complete all ongoing and new projects for the modernization of the railways in the NWR division. This is probably the highest growth in the budgetary allocation given for railways in state in the country.

 The number of new trains to originate from Rajasthan has not yet been announced but officials hinted that the state will get trains under two circuits--tourism and pilgrimage. “These trains will be of two class-passengers and super luxury ones to suit the needs of tra vellers of all category of passengers. Rajasthan has immense potential in both circuits due to the presence of religious sites and tourist attractions. The route and name of these trains will be announced shortly,“ said  , general manager, NWR. Upbeat over the higher budge tary allocation, Tarun Jain, chief public relations officer (CPRO) told media in a press conference that the allocation would accelerate the work under new line, gauge conversion, doubling and manning of railway crossings.
 
 Jain informed that one of the prime objectives of the Budget was safety. “Other than the budgetary allocation, NWR like other 15 divisions to get additional grant for strengthening safety mechanism,“ said Jain.
 
 The funds allocated for NWR in 2015-16 was Rs 874 crore and shot up to Rs 1,405 crores in 2016-17. “The actual figures of budget 2017-18 will be shared once the print version of Budget reaches to us by February 3,“ said Jain. The NWR has also announced the performance of NWR of the current financial year from April 1 till December 2016. The report said that accidents have reduced by 72.7% while the division has maintained 95% of arrivals and departures on time. The officials have claimed that NWR ranked in 4th in terms of on time performance.
 
 The NWR has made a small growth in the revenue generation in passenger load by registering a growth of 4% till December. The revenue generation in goods category is behind 10% from the previous year.
 
 “The total earning made by railways was Rs 5017.66 crores. It includes Rs 1435 crores while in goods it is Rs 3298 crores,“ said Jain, who is hoping that earnings from the goods will register growth by the end of March.
 
