PATNA:   president and former chief minister (CM)   on Tuesday requested Bihar CM   to campaign for the party in the upcoming assembly elections in Punjab.

 Amarinder arrived in Patna on Monday to participate in the ongoing Prakashotsava celebrations and met Nitish on Tuesday over lunch at the latter’s official residence at 1 Anne Marg, after offering prayers at Takhat Sri Harmandir Saheb Gurudwara, the birthplace of the tenth Sikh Guru.
 
 Amarinder was accompanied by party in-charge for Punjab Asha Kumari,   leader Shakeel Ahmad Khan and state education minister   during his meeting with Nitish.
 
 “Captain Amarinder has invited Nitish to campaign for Congress in the upcoming state elections in Punjab,” said Choudhary.
 
 Incidentally, Nitish has still not come in support of Congress in its agitation against demonetisation despite repeated persuasion by the party. Nitish has been repeatedly saying that demonetisation was a welcome move by   government.
 
 It is only in the past few weeks that the Bihar CM started saying that he would personally assess the outcomes of demonetisation in order to take a final stand on the issue. Former Union minister   too had said in the last week at Patna that Congress would persuade Nitish to oppose demonetisation.
 
 Meanwhile, the Punjab Congress chief hailed the efforts made by Nitish Kumar government in making elaborate arrangements for Prakashotsava celebrations. “Nitish Kumar has done a commendable job by organising an event of such grand scale for Sikh religion. Such religious events are organised in Punjab as well by the Akalis, but I have never seen a wonderful and elaborate arrangement like this one in Patna,” Amarinder told reporters at Gandhi Maidan, after offering prayers to   at the makeshift gurdwara at Gandhi Maidan. 
 
 Captain Amarinder first went to Takhat Sri Harmandir Sahib Gurudwara at around 9.30am and offered prayers at the Darbar Hall at the shrine. He later arrived at the tent city at Gandhi Maidan, where he first served food to devotees at the langar and later ate there as well.
 
 
