KOLKATA: A   777-300   aircraft was grounded in Kolkata on Monday after a   caused a dent on its right wing. The incidence, the third in just over a month, has left airlines and airport officials worried. Birds had become a threat to flights about a decade ago but incidents had ceased thereafter, till they resurfaced last month. 

 On Monday, the   flight carrying 275 passengers landed in Kolkata from Dubai at 7.50 am. During post-flight inspection, engineers found a dent on the right wing caused by a bird-hit. Though no bird carcass was found on the tarmac, the incident is believed to have occurred during the descent for touchdown. The return flight was cancelled as the aircraft had to be grounded. Emirates engineers will fly in on Tuesday to inspect the damage. 
 
 Of the 240 passengers booked on the return flight, 10 were flown out via Delhi and Mumbai. The rest either returned home or were checked into a hotel and will take the flight on Tuesday. An aircraft with 400 seats will operate on Tuesday to carry the combined passenger loads. 
 
 Kolkata airport director Atul Dikshit said the recent spate of bird-hit incidents was a worry and it would be taken up on priority basis at the next airport environment committee meeting. 
 
 “We always stress on cleanliness and proper disposal of garbage in municipalities around the airport to prevent flocking of birds. This problem has to be tackled to ensure safety of flights. We have to find out why the bird-hit incidents have increased again,” said Dikshit. 
 
 The environment committee meeting is held every six months.
 
 Bird-hits, especially involving bigger birds like kites and eagles, are hazardous and cause extensive damage to planes. It gets particularly tricky if the bird’s entry into the engine damages the blades. 
 
 There have been several bird-hits in Kolkata in the past but the number of incidents reported has gone down in recent years. Municipal authorities around the airport attribute this to better solid waste management and replacement of open garbage dumps with compactors in many places. But the bird activity around the Rajarhat end is still a cause of worry.
 
