AHMEDABAD: Mitesh Chauhan, 37, has been feasting on his favourite sweets—   — with a childlike glee these days.   13 years ago, these simple pleasures of life eluded him as his   remained at 250-300 mg/dl even after taking multiple shots of insulin. 

 The ‘silent killer’ eventually damaged his kidneys, leaving Chauhan, who is a production controller at a pharmaceutical company, extremely ill. Battling for life with chronic kidney failure, he was forced him to leave his job and undergo dialysis three times a week. 
 
 Mitesh underwent transplant of kidney and pancreas on April 11. A month later, doctors discharged him. They called Chauhan’s treatment the first case of successful pancreas transplant in Gujarat. 
 
 “Mitesh underwent simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplant (SPK) and he has recovered very well,” said Dr Jamal Rizvi, professor of Urology and Transplantation department at the   (IKDRC) in Ahmedabad.
 
 “His blood sugar levels have remained under 100 mg/dl without any diabetes medication. This means his transplanted pancreas is working well and his renal function is normal. This is a big breakthrough for Gujarat which is known as the ‘diabetes capital of India’," he said.
 
 The doctor further said that pancreas transplant is a technically challenging procedure. “This success has encouraged us to expand the program so that more diabetics with renal failure can benefit,” Dr Rizvi said. Mitesh got the kidney and pancreas of Ravi Dewan whose organs were donated after he became brain-dead after a road accident recently. Dewan was 22-year-old when he died. Dr Rizvi said that unlike kidneys, pancreas has to come from a young, healthy cadaver less than 40 years of age. 
 
 “I now eat dal, rice, sukhdi, penda and other sweets and my blood sugar remains under control without any medication,” Vadodara-resident Mitesh told TOI. 
 
 Dr Rizvi said that pancreas-kidney transplant will be a boon for Type-1 diabetes patients with end-stage of renal failure. The pancreas of such patients does not produce any insulin. Type-1 diabetics are highly vulnerable to kidney failure, heart disease, digestive problems and other illnesses. 
 
 Professor of neprology, Dr  , who attended on the patient, said that a double transplant surgery is highly challenging. The patient has to be doubly protected from infections, he said. 
 
