PATNA: The   has embarked on recouping its base in districts which at one time had its vibrant base but have become “weak districts” organizationally over the past four decades, and has already started moving methodically to re-energize them as a follow-up to the decisions taken at the three-day organizational state conference of the party held at Khagaria, beginning March 20.

 “The party is concerned about unequal development of its organization and base in the state, meaning that some districts have strong base, and others weak,” said state CPI executive committee member Vijay Narayan Mishra, adding that the party has embarked on the three-pronged task of reactivating the district units concerned to expand and strengthen the base.
 
 The task before the party is of gigantic nature, as even Mishra put it, because the party’s base has gradually eroded under the impact of fourfold social upheavals — first under “Left extremism from the 1970s till the early 1990s, then under the rise of Dalit versus non-Dalit politics from the 1980s, followed by what is popularly called the “Mandal politics” in the next decade, along with the raging inter-caste and other kinds of violence (including kidnapping for ransom), and finally the “unrelenting rise of the rightists underlined by the Kamandal politics” from the early 1990s. 
 
 Given the enormity of the task in hand, the party has identified 13 districts where its organizational strength has been rendered weak — and, therefore, “unequally placed compared to its organizationally strong districts.” It has put them under three sub-regional committees, each headed by a nominee from the party’s state committee.
 
 The three regional committees are Patna,   and Purnia. The districts of Patna sub-regional committee are Bhojpur, Buxar, Rohtas and Kaimur; Gaya, Nawada, Aurangabad, Jehanabad and Arwal of the Magadh committee; and, Purnia, Katihar, Araria and Kishanganj of the Purnia committee.
 
 Of the three sub-regional groupings, the districts under the Purnia committee presented a peculiar picture, as attempts were made in the past to give shape to its base and expand it, but could not be sustained, said Mishra, who has been made in-charge of this sub-regional committee. Patna committee has been put under central committee member Nagendra Nath Ojha, and Magadh under Janaki Paswan.
 
 As Mishra said, the meeting of the district council members of the Purnia committee would be held on June 11, followed by that of the districts of Patna committee at   on June 13 to decide the chart and course of action programmes. A similar meeting of the district council members under the Magadh committee would be held in July.
 
 The party’s focus is on mobilizing agriculture workers, small and marginal farmers, sharecroppers and other social groups under the banner of its mass organizations, as well as students and youths under the banner of the All India Students Federation (AISF). Already, a ‘jattha’ of the central   has decided to embark on countrywide march on a ‘rath’ from Kanyakumari in July which would enter   on August 28. The party would hold its mass ‘satyagrah’ programme on various issues in October, Mishra said. 
 
 
