NEW DELHI/SRINAGAR: The   deferred on Monday the Lok Sabha bypoll in Anantnag, due to be held on Wednesday, to May 25 following reports from the Jammu and Kashmir administration as well as the state’s chief electoral officer that there may be violent attempts by some miscreant elements to thwart the polling process.

 The postponement comes a day after the Srinagar bypoll saw a record low turnout and unprecedented violence that left eight persons dead and over 150 injured. 
 
 Earlier on Monday, PDP candidate  , who is chief minister  's brother, had demanded deferring the Anantnag poll citing the poor law and order situation.
 
 Around the same time, the J&K administration sent a report to the EC recommending that the bypoll be put off till the situation improved. On Sunday night, two school buildings which were to serve as polling stations were set on fire.
 
 The state administration has, in its report, expressed the apprehension that there may be violent attempts by some miscreant elements to thwart the polling process in the constituency in view of the violent incidents that have taken place in some parts of Srinagar parliamentary constituency, where the poll was taken on April 9, resulting in some casualties and loss of life,” the EC said.
 
 The commission said that on considering the state administration’s report and taking into account inputs from the state CEO, divisional commissioner of south Kashmir, Anantnag returning officer and all other election authorities, it had decided that the Anantnag bypoll be deferred.
 
 The poll panel rescheduled it for May 25, “by which time the commission expects the law and order situation in the constituency to improve and become conducive to the holding of free and fair election”.
 
 Tassaduq, at a press conference on Monday morning, said the atmosphere in the valley was not conducive for holding the bypoll.
 
 In continuing violence, a government school building was set on fire by miscreants in the Padar Pora area of Shopian district late on Sunday night, a police officer said. 
 
 The school building, which was to serve as a polling station, suffered partial damage before the flames were doused, he said. 
 
 Miscreants torched another school building in Arihal area of   district on Sunday night, the officer said, adding the fire was put out by police personnel with the help of residents.
 
 On Monday, one   was killed when miscreants pelted stones on his vehicle at Nund Reshi Colony at Bemina in Srinagar. He lost control over the vehicle which turned turtle. Internet services in Kashmir continued to remain suspended for the second day on Monday.
 
