KOLKATA: It was an English exam that saved the life of 15-year-old Ipsita Das. 

 For over a year, the teenaged daughter of Dr Suman Das had been pleading with her parents to allow her to attend pop sensation Ariana Grande’s concert at Manchester Arena. But her Board exams fortuitously put a spanner in her plan, with her parents not letting her go to the show; the concert ended on a horrific note as a suicide bomber blew himself up, killing 22, including youngsters. Even as he rushed to attend to emergency cases, Suman, a doctor at Stepping Hill Hospital in Manchester, told TOI it was a matter of sheer luck that his family was saved. 
 
 In fact, the Das family learnt about the explosion— many felt it was the worst terror attack on Britain since the July 2005 blast in central London, in which 52 people were killed—from early-morning calls and messages from panic-stricken friends and family from Kolkata. “Presently, I got a call from my hospital, asking me to come down sooner than usual,” Suman said. 
 
 The urgent call was because the emergency ward at Das’s hospital had to be evacuated and the patients sent to other sections to make space for the injured in the blast. “I work in the respiratory medicine and was asked to immediately go to hospital. As my hospital is in south of Manchester, we are not directly affected. Our management has created space in the emergency department to move some of the less critically unwell victims from the hospitals closer to the venue, which is in the north of Manchester. Those hospitals are   and  ,” Das said. Around 20 injured were transferred to Das’s hospital. 
 
 Life at Manchester has, however, not come to a standstill, with even schools being open. Only the train station, Manchester Victoria, wasn’t accessible. On her way to school to write her Latin and German exams, Ipsita told TOI: “It is sad that such a young audience was targeted. I was supposed to attend this show but as I had my English exams, I couldn’t make it. A couple of my friends, who went to the show, were injured.”
 
 The incident has brought the Das family closer together. “We’re lucky that Ipsita stayed home,” Suman said. What if she wants to attend another concert at the venue? “I would be in two minds to let her go. But we can’t let an act of terrorism rule our lives. So, I may ask her to be safe. But if she wants to enjoy an evening out, I have no reason to say no.”
 
