A recent research conducted by a global consulting firm ranked India as the number 1 innovation destination in Asia, with Bengaluru leading from the front. Branded as the ‘Silicon Valley’ of the East, the city is a favourite innovation destination in India, with three out of India’s 11 innovation centres — opened between March and October — being established here, and is currently ranked Number 5 in the global top 10 city list. On this occasion, we make a list of innovations that Bengalureans did in the year that went by…

 
 
 Bengaluru-based doctor-engineer,  , has come to the ‘timely’ aid of the elderly and the epileptic by inventing a wearable device that detects a fall and calls out for help. The biomedical engineering device — developed after five years of research, and wrapped in silicone to be worn around the waist — identifies a critical tilt angle and once this angle is breached, an alarm goes off to alert a doctor or a relative. This is especially useful, since many epileptic patients die not due to epilepsy but because of the fall.
 
 
 
 A female friend who almost got sexually harassed by a bunch of strangers was a reason strong enough for four engineering students to build a safety device for women. They put their heads together and invented a wearable, earphone-like electroencephalogram (EEG) connected to a smartphone that automatically detects panic by analyzing brain wave data and triggers an SOS. Most of the innovation took shape at the  , where the team developed the product using 3D printing, rapid prototyping boards and carbon nanotubes. The four creators — Fausya Amalh, George Mathew, Athul B Raj and   — bagged awards for their inventions.
 
 
 
 Lab research is a very hard job — not just because of its laborious nature, but also the various health hazards scientists can be subject to. A lot of chemicals such as acid stains are used for a lot of tests, and are probably carcinogenic. To combat just that, Fathima Benazir developed a stain that could help researchers reduce their exposure to harmful chemicals, if acid stains are replaced with it. Called Tinto Rang, the stain is made from plants and is even safe for consumption. Fathima Benazir claims that this indigenous invention is also the safest in the world.
 
 
 
 Picture this — a systems engineer, who lives in   and commutes to his office at   — relies on the   (ORR) every day to get to work on time, but is often late due to flat tyres, all thanks to the presence of umpteen numbers of nails strewn on the road.   decided to take things into his hands, and started picking up nails on the ORR using a magnetic stick. Every morning, he leaves home around 7, stops by specific points on the road and collects as much as possible. Till date, the 44-year-old has collected over 70 kg of nails, and his Facebook page ‘My Road, My Responsibility’ has many followers.
 
