ANAND: If Akhilesh Yadav, the leader of the  , was present at the Army recruitment rally in   town of Anand district on Thursday, he would have thought twice before commenting on the patriotism of the people of  .

 A record number of candidates — 71,039 — in total has registered online for the recruitment drive for different categories in the Army, making it the highest turnout thus far in the state.
 
 The final figure of candidates likely to be inducted into the force is also likely to break previous records.
 
 The rally that started from Thursday at Shastri maidan will continue till July 16. Candidates from 21 districts of Gujarat are appearing for selection in the ongoing rally.
 
 The recruitment rally is for soldier general duty, soldier clerk, store keeper technical, soldier tradesman and soldier technical and soldier nursing assistant categories.
 
 “This rally has surpassed the earlier record when 60,580 candidates had registered for the drive that was held in Himmatnagar in December 2016,“ said Brigadier Dinesh Chadhha, deputy director general recruiting, adding that it is after a gap of 12 years that the rally was being held in Southern Gujarat.
 
 “The record registrations both at Himmatnagar and Anand suggest that there is increasing awareness amongst youth of Gujarat where before 2013, registrations were in the range of Rs 30,000 to Rs 35,000,“ he said. It is a significant upward trend which is a welcome sign,“ said de fence spokesman, Wing Commander Abhishek Matiman.
 
 “There was a time when Gujarat vacancies could not be filled but now more youths from the state are getting attracted to the Army which explains the quantum jump in registrations,“ he said.
 
 On the first day, when candidates from Daman, Dang, Mahisagar and Surat were called for the recruitment rally , 2,389 candidates of over 4,000 who had registered turned up.
 
 Of these, 150 candidates were selected after the physical test.
 
 Gujarat government's efforts is also one of the reasons behind more youths applying for army jobs.
 
 “Across the country , it is only in Gujarat that ahead of such recruitment drives, the state labour and employment department provides free one month training to the candidates in all the districts. Each candidate is also paid Rs 100 per day as stipend,“ said a government official.
 
