NAGPUR: In Maharashtra, 75% schools still use firewood, instead of the preferred LPG, to cook   (MDM) according to a report by the  . This point, along with a few more, was highlighted in a December 7 report on  , as ‘challenges in implementation’ of the centre’s biggest  . 

 Environmentalist   said use of firewood results in air pollution. “When you burn a tree you also burn other wastes with it that causes air pollution. Government has started initiative to supply gas to every house holds then they must also take actions on these schools to ensure use of LPG,” he said. “On one side we are inspiring people to plant tree and on other hand you are using it to cook food. In a way you are burning oxygen to eat food, when oxygen is most important for us,” added Chatterjee.
 
 In Maharashtra, Mumbai was specifically singled out for ‘poor’ performance for last three years. The report cited that in 2015-16, 34% children in primary schools remained uncovered under MDM. For upper primary under the same parameter, Mumbai’s performance worsened to 38% children not being covered. 
 
 The report said that 20% schools have still not constructed the mandatory kitchen-cum-stores. This separate room has to be constructed because of the fire hazard it carries if cooking is done inside school building. There are still 15,447 schools in state that have not even started construction of these kitchen sheds. 
 
 While the challenges before Maharashtra are things to be concerned about, there are many initiatives taken by the state which have been praised in the report. Listed among the ‘best practices’ in state, is the construction of pre-fabricated kitchen-cum-stores (fire proof). The report also highlights the introduction of ‘sneh bhojan’ concept in schools that has enhanced quality of MDM. Under ‘sneh bhojan’, citizens serve food to students as part of an extended celebrations of personal events. This usually happens in rural areas, where a family having marriage celebrations decides to ‘treat’ school kids to a special lunch. This practice has been now collated with MDM thus ensuring that kids are treated to a special menu at school. 
 
 In a separate notification issued on February 28, the government has also mandated that all MDM beneficiaries must have an Aadhar Card, or at least started the process of getting one. The notification has also clarified that in case a student has not even applied that his/her identity needs to be certified using government documents. 
 
