When we talk about fitness, the very first thing that comes to our mind is the physical aspect of it — running, working out, stretching, etc., and naturally so, because that’s the part we can see. But what escapes the eye, is the part where staying physically fit nourishes the mind just as much as it does the body, making positive changes to our lives as a whole. 
Bangalore Times takes a look at the lives of a few highly-motivated women in the city, who have made fitness a part of their lifestyle and constantly strive to push their bodies to their absolute limits. These tough women — from across various age groups — draw motivation from various people around them, and in turn inspire others to buck up and follow suit.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Mountaineering, marathon, banking
 Inspiration can come from any quarter, and in varying degrees. When you get to know  , that dose of inspiration comes in truck-loads. The 55-year-old banker is an avid trekker and high-altitude mountaineer, and has been scaling peaks on many continents for the past 25 years. In India, she has ascended mountains such as Kailash, Amarnath, Kanchanjunga, Vaishnodevi and many others, and internationally, she has scaled Mount Kilimanjaro (highest in Africa), Elbrus (in Russia, and highest in Europe) and even completed the 10 peak challenge at the Snowy Mountains ranges in Kosciuszko National Park, Australia, in 28 hours. “It’s my (and my husband’s) most favourite hobby,” she says with a grin.
 But that’s not the best part about her. To increase her lung capacity for mountaineering, Shamala took up marathon training, and found out that she’s exceptional at it, winning the Bangalore 10K challenge for the last two years and Ajmera Thump 21K in the last three years in her age category, and even gold medals in 800m, 1500m, 5K, 10K and half marathon in 2016 Masters Athletics event, to name a few. “Running was always a passion, but I surprised myself when I started to run competitively. When I see all the women around me from different age groups and backgrounds go out of their way to stay fit and do the things they love, that inspires me the most,” says Shamala, who clocked her personal 10K best timing of 1 hour, 55 minutes at the world masters event at Perth, Australia, last year, in which over 108 countries took part.
 Despite her incredible achievements, Shamala remains extremely humble, thanking her parents, her daughter and most of all, her husband KR Manmohan, for being by her side. “All the things that I do, I do it for myself and my family. They’ve been extremely supportive. Best of all is the support I get from my beloved husband, who’s been the best companion in this journey of mine,” she says.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  Zumba,  , fitness training
 In 2011, a 29-year-old Shwetambari Shetty left her job as a banker and took up a job at a fitness centre, which wanted to introduce Zumba, a little-known dance fitness programme, to Bengaluru. She took up the certification, but quit soon after. Three months later, on her husband’s suggestion, she started off with just one class in Koramangala, and today, she’s synonymous Zumba not just in the city, but the entire country. “It was a happy accident,” she says.
 Since then, she has created spaces across the city for people to meet up socially, workout and have fun in the process. She says, “Once I got into teaching Zumba, I met people who had bigger plans for making fitness fun and popular across the city, and that helped me gain direction with where I wanted to take this.”
 Slowly, Shwetambari started getting interested in CrossFit as well, taking part in competitions, finishing as the fifth fittest woman in the country last year. When she introduced it at her fitness centre, it was even better. “Fitness is infinitely scalable, based on how driven and mentally tough the people you train are. And just by looking at people’s physique, you really can’t say if they’re going to be beasts when they workout, or not.”
 Between managing Zumba, fitness centres and her own workouts, she claims to work almost seven days a week, round the year. So how does she manage to keep her motivation levels high? “My nutritionist once told me something I’ll ever forget — muscle is the only age-reversing organ in the body. That is motivation enough for me to workout as often as possible. Besides, the power and ability to transform people’s lives and outlook on life through fitness, that’s an immensely gratifying feeling.”
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Swimming, cycling, running, high-altitude trekking, ultra marathon, scuba diving, yoga, entrepreneurship
 Swimmer, cyclist, runner, high-altitude trekker, ultra marathoner, certified scuba diver, yoga practitioner, entrepreneur, biker and a mother of two — if anyone aspires to be good at time management and stay fit and driven, asking 40-year-old   how to go about it would be a great idea. But how does she do it?
 “I always tell people there is no such thing as ‘not enough hours in a day’. If you’re disciplined and driven, you’ll find that you have a lot more time on your hands than you think. Not only do I get to do the things I love, when my sons see their mum live her life like this, there really is nothing that I have to teach them. They watch and learn these values themselves,” she says.
 Deepa’s list of runs and treks are impressive — not only has she completed she’s run the ultra-marathons in Bengaluru and Malnad, but also at Khardung La (72 kms at 18,000 feet) and Stok, Leh (at 20,000 feet, the highest altitude for amateur runners), clocked the maximum distance (86.2 kms) at the 12-hour Stadium Run 2016 and scaled many mountains in the Himalayan range.
 It’s only natural to wonder how all of this doesn’t take a toll on her body, to which she replies, “I listen to my body, and don’t push it beyond a point. At my age, it’s very important for me to be consistent in my routine and respect my body. Also, I eat right and sleep well because of all this. But what do I love most about being so active? I’m a big foodie, and I get to eat all my favourite dishes without a worry in the world.”
 
 
  
  
 
 
 CrossFit, marathon, rock climbing, vascular radiology
 When Mysuru-born   used to play tennis and run marathons during her undergraduate days in USA, and travelled to India during her holidays, something bothered her. “A decade ago, there were hardly any women trainers. I saw so many in USA but it used to bug me as to why it isn’t the same here,” she says. But today, things have changed. “Now, not only do we have a lot of women trainers, the attitude of both genders has changed so much for the better. Not only do we have women with no inhibition to weight train, men are open and welcoming to be trained by women as well. That’s a big step in the right direction,” she adds.
 The 32-year-old has her hands full balancing between being a CrossFit lover and trainer, a marathoner and a vascular radiologist, and loves them all equally. She’s taken part in marathons in countries such as Singapore, Indonesia and Japan, and was the winner of last year’s Devil’s Circuit in Bengaluru.
 Whenever the rigours of fitness get to her, Swetha has a trick up her sleeve. “Every time I start feeling the drudgery of fitness, I get away from it for a few days. That automatically makes me miss it a lot, and I get back to it with renewed vigour,” she says, adding, “Moreover, the fitter I get, the more curious I am — about fitness-related wisdom, what motivates people to stay fit, what my limits are, etc. There really is no ceiling to push yourself to be the best version of you every single day.”
 She says that there’s one thing that women ask her often — is it too late to start working out. “When people ask me that, I tell them this — with every birthday I only get fitter and fitter, and so I eagerly look forward to the next one. It’s never too late.”
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  Yoga, marathon
 It was all about ‘staying thin’ when 27-year-old Shruthi Jain started running a decade ago. That mentality stayed with her, till around the time her mum forced her to take up yoga over three years ago. “I grudgingly did, and staying fit has become a lifestyle,” she says. From being a hesitant yogi, Shruthi has gone on to become a registered yoga teacher with over 700 hours of experience and is even a prenatal yoga teacher.
 Elaborating on people’s perception of yoga, she says, “When you say yoga, people think only of flexibility. But what most don’t realize is that it’s as much as about strength, as it is about flexibility, and striking the right balance between the two. Gravity and a person’s own bodyweight are more than enough to workout and be strong.” The fitness that yoga offered her is such, that she once completed a half marathon without training specifically for it. “Not only did I manage to complete it, I came out of it injury free. Yoga has helped me become aware of my body and its limits.”
 Today, for Shruthi, yoga isn’t just a fitness activity anymore. She says, “The spirituality side of yoga appeals to me a lot. That doesn’t mean I’ve become enlightened, but just that yoga has become a way of life — in the asanas that I do, in the food I eat and the habits that I follow, I am mindful of the positive effects they all have on my mind and body. Staying fit transforms from being a habit to a necessity, just like eating or breathing.”
 
 
