KOLKATA: Stalls curtailed.   protruding from stalls to display the wares cut short.   above stalls covering the entire footpath removed. Entrances to buildings and markets freed.

 Such was the scene at Gariahat on Sunday afternoon, when the hawkers’ union carried out a self-regulation drive to demarcate the trading territories in a bid to free two-third of the road for pedestrians.
 
 Around 3,500   on the Ballygunge station-Deshapriya Park stretch and the Golpark-Pantaloons stretch suspended business during the peak Chaitra sale season to dismantle their stalls from the morning. Trade was halted till afternoon as union leaders warned the peddlers not to open their stalls till the stipulations were met with. But by evening, a section of hawkers resumed business, without modifying their shops as they found it difficult to resist the lure of customers pouring in to make purchases during Chaitra sale.
 
 From 11.30am on Sunday, a team of hawker union members walked around with measuring tapes, height-bar, hacksaw, and three cans of yellow paint. They measured pavement widths and drew a yellow line from the edge of the footpath on both sides to restrict hawkers within the section. On the 20-ft-wide pavement between Gariahat crossing and Pantaloons, the stalls along the road will be allowed to occupy 3.5-ft space, while the shops across can take up 2.5-ft space to hang their wares. On the 14-ft-wide pavements between Gariahat Market and Golpark, each stall is allowed to occupy 4.5-ft space.
 
 The union members also asked all the hawkers to limit the plastic cover above their shops to allow air and light enter the footpath and asked all the shops not to hang their wares outside the limit drawn up, so that pedestrians did not face problems walking on the stretch.
 
 “We are being very strict with the stipulations. The hawkers have been asked not to resume business until they restructure their stalls according to the guidelines. If anyone is found extending their stalls beyond the demarcated area, we will suspend his business for seven days. Repeat offenders will be permanently suspended from carrying out business here,” said Debraj Ghosh, general secretary of Gariahat Indira Hawkers’ Union.
 
 Some pedestrians and local shopkeepers said only time would tell if this was a mere eyewash or a long-term measure for a permanent solution. “I hope this is not just a temporary action. We will wait and watch whether the hawkers return to their previous space or not. But if they do stick to one side of the road, it will be of great help,” said Abhijit Dutta, a Mukundapur resident.
 
 Rathin Lahiri, who owns a garment store on the ground floor of Jashoda Bhavan in Gariahat since the past three decades, is also wary of the outcome. “If the hawkers stick to one side of the pavement and remove the plastic sheets above to make our store’s sign boards visible, our business will increase manifold. But I hope this is not a one-day exercise,” he said.
 
 Currently, 2,100 hawkers are registered with Ghosh’s union and Ballygunge Hawkers’ Union. However, the actual hawker count on the ground is around 3,400-3,600.
 
 “We welcome the union’s move. If all of us actually stick to one portion of the road and allow people to walk freely, our business will increase,” said Devanan Halder, who sells mobile phone covers at his 5x5-ft makeshift stall. Asked by the union to curtail his stall to 3.5 ft, he was quick to cut down the bamboo sticks and push back the stall within limits.
 
 However, hawker Kaushik Jana said it was impossible to do business within the demarcation. “I sell garments that need to be displayed properly. How can it be possible in a 3.5-ft space and without any plastic cover? What do we do when it rains?” he said.
 
 
