NEW DELHI:  , founder of   ( ), a multi-sporting program that operates in 25 disciplines and hopes to put the country on the global sporting map, is determined to create a difference at the grassroots level and in the   scenario in India. 

 TOI Sports spoke to Joshi to find out more about the initiative how it aspires to change the level of sports in the country at the grassroots level. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 School sports in India has always been a least priority sector in the development of sports in this country. But we at Sports For All have revolutionized the concept of school sports by bringing in a serious and a professional approach of conducting it. It has been our endeavor to make school sports more competitive and have ensured state-of-art infrastructure to every single sport, along with perfect scheduling, digital scoring for every sport. We have also involved professional sport operators, associations & federations, close to 1300+ technical officials are involved during last year's SFA week and every single match is professionally video recorded (11,000 matches in 2016) alongside the statistics and records of every athlete are captured and linked to individual player profile on our website, www.sfanow.in. Most importantly, we have 35,000 students from around 700 schools, which truly make us the largest 'professional' youth sporting championships at the grassroots level, not just in India but worldwide. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 It is for the first time that school games in India have been organized at this scale with the due professionalism, hence I believe the biggest difference that SFA can create is to give such a high impact platform to school games. Issues such as age-forging, transparency, talent not getting opportunity and most importantly enabling talent to speak for itself are some of the key drivers of change that SFA Sports platforms brings to the schools and the students who aspires to make it big in sports. 
 
 Also, in my opinion, majority of the schools are unaware of their sporting prowess. Most schools do not know how many girls or boys in which age group and in which sport participate and may have the real talent to excel. Hence, SFA is that starting point that is enabling schools to have access to these vital information. SFA has built an all-encompassing model which will bring together every school and give every athlete an equal chance across all sporting disciplines to showcase their talent. This is a radical change at grassroots level sport and I think this will go a long way in building a strong eco-system for sports at the grassroots level in India.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Well to answer that I would like to put into perspective that from nine sports in season one, we have had 25 sports in season two. We have seen a huge jump in the interest level as the number of participants have catapulted from 2500 athletes to 35,000 participants last year. We have also added from one venue ( ) to SFA 2016 being spread across three top international venues in Mumbai. SFA is fast becoming a force to reckon with and for this year we are moving on to colleges and expanding the number of sports as well. 
 
 We have grown in every aspect, from one sponsor (Enerzal) in 2015 we had three sponsors in year two (Enerzal, Tata Motors & Honor Mobile phones). We have also seen an increase in the number of participating schools, 300 schools that jumped to 700 schools in 2016. From an organizational point of view, we have grown to 40 people, whereas in the first year it was me alone who started off this project. There has been a radical shift in the mindset of the schools and athletes as now they are calling us to ensure that they will be a part of SFA unlike our first year of presence. In a nutshell, this will give a clear indication of our steady growth and we will only scale greater heights from here on. 
 
 
 
 
 Our initiatives of introducing some of the key drivers apart from the sporting platform has been the introduction of points table resulting in ranking of all the participating schools in sports. Earlier if one would ask you which is the best school for sport in Mumbai or India, you would not have a clue; because there has been no way to measure the same. But the SFA platform has insured they not only are today aware of the sporting DNA of the Mumbai schools but also have created 'accurately measure performance' for all the athletes, coaches and schools there by grading individual school. The School Ranking System has indeed changed and more importantly revolutionized the way schools perceive sports today and with school, district and state level champions also participating, the competition and the platform has gained a serious approach to sport at the grass roots level, which is a big step indeed.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 This year we have come up with various ways to make this competition the most aspirational platform for the athletes. We are coming up with a new version of the portal which will further enhance the digital experience of each athlete and participant in SFA. We are adding video analysis services and virtual talent scouts. They will be pointing out the errors, strengths, weaknesses of individual athletes by way of coaching them through their videos. This year we will be adding four more disciplines of sports and will be reaching out to the colleges in Mumbai and around. Sports For All aims to cater to the sporting needs of individuals from the age of 6 to 60, hence schools, colleges and then we aim to include the clubs in future too. We will also be announcing various scholarship for promising athletes, and recognitions for coaches and schools. 
 
 
 
 
 Well this helps in a lot of ways, like bringing in transparency, keeping a check on age forgery, and virtual talent scouting which saves logistical costs and makes the process more active. We have approximately 32 lakh school children only in Mumbai; our job is to attract each and every child towards sport as I believe the biggest change will take place when there is an attitudinal change which will ignite the desire to perform and compete amongst the athletes, inspire schools to showcase their talents and parents and coaches will find a support system. It will also enable the best training programs from across the world to be able to make a much more "informed" entry into India. We have chosen our training and development partners that have quality coaches, a proper year long program, multiple centers across the city such that they are easily accessible and make sure that these programs are available outside of school hours so that every scouted talent can be catered year long. We intend to replicate this across India so that we will have a nation full of athletes who will have a voice and profile of their own. 
 
 
 
 
 Our platform is completely ready (digitally and on-ground) to be scaled up beyond Mumbai, awaiting funds and sponsor support to give us the much needed impetus to take this pan-India. We have invested a lot of money and now the various stakeholders, brands etc also need to participate in larger capacity for us to take this initiative pan-India. We have firm and concrete plans to be present in eight cities by 2021 and thereby have the best one million athletes across India in 35+ sporting disciplines on a single platform.
 
 
 
  
 To put things into perspective, the number of sponsors does not really matter. What matters is the amount of money they are willing to invest in this system. Year one and year two sponsors could not have taken the plunge as they were not sure of the participation numbers, our execution capabilities and our scale of operations. Now that we have proven both, I hope to see a lot more participation from them. Without which SFA will not be able to sustain itself; they are integral cog in the wheel. It costs us almost a million dollars to do each event, and once sponsors join hands in a bigger way we go pan-India, the economies of scale will kick in and make it a commercially viable model - make it a system that India as a country will be proud of.
 
