NEW DELHI: Much before Srinagar witnessed a record low turnout and widespread violence during the Lok Sabha bypoll on Sunday, the home ministry claims to have warned the   of these very consequences, citing “the atmosphere of fear created by Pakistan-backed separatists”.

 Home ministry sources on Monday said the   was not consulted by the   prior to announcement of the schedule for Srinagar and   bypolls, but added that when the commission later approached its joint secretary seeking deployment of around 30,000 central paramilitary personnel, he had shared the Centre’s apprehensions regarding holding the bypolls in April.
 
 “The ministry formally conveyed to EC that the time was not opportune for holding parliamentary polls as a sense of fear had been instilled in voters by Pakistan-backed local separatists. 
 
 It was explained that with the state government planning panchayat polls, it was better to wait as panchayat polls would help create the right atmosphere for parliamentary bypolls,” said a senior government official.
 
 The EC, however, was not convinced with the home ministry’s contention. 
 
 According to sources in the commission, the bypoll was due in Srinagar before April 16 and it was a constitutional obligation for the EC to conduct it. Sources clarified that the poll panel was not bound to consult MHA before holding elections; rather, the J&K government, which is responsible for law and order, was consulted as required.
 
 The state government informed the EC ahead of the bypoll announcement about preparations being made for free and peaceful elections.
 
 It further said a comprehensive deployment plan was worked out with the state police and the security of political leaders and candidates upgraded. 
 
 The state government also shared its plan to hold panchayat elections in the state, said an EC source.
 
 “In the assessment of EC, if the prevailing conditions were conducive for holding panchayat elections, then holding of parliamentary polls was also possible,” an EC official said.
 
 Home ministry officials, however, argued that the very fact that the EC deployed 10 times more forces than the average 100-120 personnel used per parliamentary constituency, showed that it was apprehending trouble during the bypolls.
 
