When Rahul returned to Doon after living in Mumbai for 10 years, he was skeptical if he will be able to adjust to the slow pace of a   once again. But the IT professional, who was fed up of the stressful life of a  , soon realized he has made the right choice. The city has developed, there were better job options and at the same time, life was much more relaxed. "I left Doon some 10 years ago for studies then took a job in Mumbai and later moved to London. Having lived in two of the busiest cities of the world, I was not sure whether I would be able to adjust here. But the weather, the scenic beauty of Doon tempted me to come back. I took up a job in an IT firm in the city and eventually, I started my own IT company. The best thing about living here is that I get time for myself. I can meet my friends regularly and am far away from the hustle bustle that marks life in a bigger city," he says.

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Rahul, who has worked for IT firms in Mumbai and London, came back to Doon to start his own company 
 
 It is not just Rahul, many  , who had once migrated outside the city in search of jobs, are returning to Doon, looking for a healthier  . Rather than being a part of the rat race in metros, these people have opted for a more peaceful life in their  .
  
 
 
  After working for different production houses in Delhi and Bombay for almost 12 years, Abhishek Tiwari came back to Doon to live a quality life in his hometown. He now owns a production house and has made a name for himself in the city.
 
  
  Abhishek Tiwari, who has worked for various production houses in Delhi and Bombay for almost 12 years, came back to Doon to start his own company 
 
 He says, "I left Doon in 2000 to work for a production house in Mumbai. There I would endlessly work for long hours and would dream of the trees and hills of Dehradun and would yearn to come back to my city. Leaving a full-fledged career and coming back to Doon was a big decision. Though I was a little skeptical, when I came back, I was surprised to see how developed Doon has become. I met a lot of people who were passionate about filmmaking and were brimming with ideas. I soon realized that people here are talented, there's scope and that a production company will do well here. So, I started my own company. My decision brought me my peace of mind back and helped me make a name in this small city."
 
  
 
 
  Anand Kanti, owner of a café at Rajpur Road, says, "I moved out of Doon in 2005 to work as an assistant director in Mumbai. While I had everything there, that one apparently needs - from good job, fat salary to an extravagant lifestyle - I always felt something was missing! I never had time for myself and was always rushing, fulfiling my job requirements. So I came back in 2013 to Doon and started my own cafe. As they say, you can take a Doonite out of Doon but you can never take Doon out of a Doonite! This city has its own charm, it gives you space to breathe and relax. I see a lot of   coming to my cafe and when I see them enjoying, I feel good as I know they can never find this kind of peaceful ambience in the bigger and more prosperous cities across the country."
 
  
  Mohit Jayant, who has worked as a senior business strategy manager in Delhi for six years, came back to Doon last year to start his own café
  
  
 
 
  Akshay Ahuja, a guitarist who has founded a group that connects local musicians, says, "I moved out of Doon in 2008 for my studies and started working with an MNC in 2011. Working for three years with a big corporate company took a toll on my creativity as a musician. I lost my peace of mind and my ability to make music. So, last year I took the decision to come back to my hometown and start my own company. Now, I work as a middleman for city music bands and help them bag gigs at cafes in the city. The best thing about Doon is that people are receptive and here, your creativity gets a boost."
 
  
  Akshay, who has worked in an MNC for three years, came back to Doon to start a group that connects local musicians
 
 
 
 
  Nikhil, a 23-year-old film editor, who has worked for three years in Mumbai with different production houses, returned to Doon this year. He says, "I had never thought I would come back to Doon again as I was earning well in Mumbai. But, in spite of a good lifestyle, I was just not happy there. I would miss my culture and family a lot. So, I finally decided to come back and join a production house in Doon. Also, when I left the city three years back, there were hardly any production houses here but today, a couple of them are quite established in the city and are even doing good work." He adds, "The quality of life that you can enjoy in Doon is amazing. With awesome weekend gateways just a drive away, there is also so much to explore here."
  
  Nikhil working at a shoot
 
 PEOPLE IN DOON ARE BROAD- MINDED, SO YOU DON’T MISS THE LIFE IN METROS
  
  Mohit Jayant, who has worked as a senior business strategy manager in Delhi for six years, came back to Doon last year to start his own café. He says, "The biggest doubt that people have when they move to a small town is whether they will be able to adjust to the city's culture. After all, Doon is a small town. But the fact is people here are really progressive, liberal and therefore, you are unlikely to face the issues that one usually does in a small town."
  
 --Akshita.Vohra@timesgroup.com
  
 
