MUMBAI: In a first, the school education department has derecognized a junior college in the city for giving illegal admissions to over 600 students. On Monday, the government derecognized the Namdar Shri   Junior College in Borivli for cheating parents and students and not following rules of the centralized admission process.

 According to the order issued by B B Chavan, deputy director of education, Mumbai, Namdar Shri Ajit Pawar College of Arts, Commerce, Rao Junior College of Science, IP Technical College, admitted 544 students in the science stream and 86 in the commerce stream offline, instead of doing so online, where sanctioned seats were 120 per stream. Chavan said, “When the system allotted students for the first year junior college (FYJC), the college admitted them but did not upload the information on the portal. Due to this, the seats were considered vacant for the next round as well and more students were allotted to the college. The cycle continued.” 
 
 The Bombay high court had instructed the education department to conduct all FYJC admissions through the centralized admission process only, following which a government resolution was issued to that effect in March 2016.
 
 The department issued the order to de-recognize the junior college after it received an unsatisfactory response to a show-cause notice sent to it on March 1. “The response to the show-cause notice was submitted two-and-a-half months late and does not reflect ground reality. In fact, the reply is intentionally misleading and hence it is rejected,” said the order.
 
 However with the college de-recognized from the next academic year, the fate of its students is uncertain. Chavan said he has consulted education minister   to ensure that students do not lose a year. “There was no other option but to withdraw the college’s approval. We do not yet know what the parents and students were promised. Parents filed a request with the department to help the students. We will draw up vacancies available in the nearby colleges and accommodate the students at those places so they do not lose a year and can appear for HSC as regular students,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, college principal   (29) and the owner of Professor Makarand Group Tuitions, Kandivli, a private coaching centre with which the college had a tie-up, were arrested on Sunday for allowing some students to appear for the FYJC final examination from the coaching centre’s premises. “The principal allowed some students to appear for the exam from a private coaching centre using the same question paper given to students in college. Later, the principal himself lodged a complaint against the coaching centre citing the malpractice. However, during investigation we found it could have been a financial deal that soured and the principal himself was involved in it,” said an official from Charkop police station. The two have been remanded to custody till May 26.
 
 (With inputs from V Narayan)
 
