CHANDIGARH: Coming out with its final list of three candidates on Tuesday,   sprung up a surprise by denying party ticket to former Union minister and ex-MP Manish Tewari and fielding a former Akali leader  .

 The party has chosen Bolaria to contest from Amritsar South, Dr Manju Bansal from Mansa and Sanjiv Talwar from Ludhiana East.
 
 Sources said Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu was against Tewari's candidature as he did not want the latter to regain foothold in Ludhiana.
 
 Tewari had represented the constituency in Lok Sabha before Bittu, out in the 2014 but had opted out in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. Bittu was then shifted from Anandpur Sahib to Ludhiana at the eleventh hour. Now, even if he loses the assembly election from Jalalabad, he will continue to be Ludhiana MP. 
 
 Sources said Tewari was initially interested in contesting from Amritsar (Central) but later insisted on Amritsar (East), considering it a safer seat. However, the party is believed to have offered him candi dature from Kharar, a constituency that also has sizeable Hindu votes, but he declined the proposal. His name has been doing the rounds even though the party leadership maintained that he never applied for a party ticket.
 
 Talwar is a sitting Congress councillor from Ludhiana, “Even if one goes by winnability, the party has preferred to pick a councillor over a former minister. Despite having the support of Amarinder, Tewari lost the battle to Bittu,“ confided a Congress leader. Bolaria had quit the SAD to join the Congress last month. His name is believed to have been pushed by Amarinder even though some members of the screening committee were in favour of local Congressman and hotelier Jasbir Dimpa. Despite two senior Congress leaders ­ MPs Shamsher Singh Dullo and Partap Singh Bajwa red-flagging the issue of Congress giving tickets to Akali entrants, the party decided to pick Bolaria. The Congress, however, denied a ticket to another former Akali leader Swarn Singh Phillaur.
 
 From Mansa, the Congress again declined the claim of   chief  's aide BIS Chahal's son.
 
 The Mansa ticket instead went to Dr Manju Bansal, the wife of former Congress legislator Mangat Rai Bansal. Mangat was named in a corruption case.
 
