BENGALURU: While citizens are eagerly waiting for the entire phase 1 of   to be up and running by April,   (BMRC) is gearing up to roll out   between destinations witnessing huge ridership. Once fully operational, the 42-km network would ferry an estimated 10 lakh commuters per day.

 “There’s a way to measure the train’s weight. Data procured from the   (AFC) gates can help us calculate the number of commuters going from place A to place B. When the north-south line connects to the east-west corridor, we will use the data to figure out the high-density stretches. And accordingly, we will run short-loop trains between important stations to manage heavy traffic during peak hours,” explained Pradeep Singh Kharola, MD, BMRC.
 
 The short-loop trains will be run till BMRC procures six-coach trains. Test runs have already been conducted between Vijayanagar and Indiranagar stations during weekends. Kharola said their analysis shows that Kempegowda (Majestic) and MG Road stations record the maximum ridership at all times. On Friday evenings, most techies from east and southeast Bengaluru hop on to the Metro from Byappanahalli to reach Sangolli Rayanna (Bengaluru city) railway station or Majestic bus station, from where they head to their hometowns or holiday destinations. 
 
 Metro trains will be run at a three-minute frequency once the entire 42-km network is functional. At present, Namma Metro ferries an average of 1.75 lakh commuters per day on the Mysuru Road-Byappanahalli and Nagasandra-Sampige Road corridors.
 
 The proposal to buy six-coach trains is being vetted by international banks and funding agencies. However, the tenders are ready to be floated, Kharola said. It will take about 12-14 months for the trains to reach the city after the order is placed.
 
 Box: Work on in full swing to meet deadline
 
 BMRC is testing trains between National College and Puttenahalli stations on its southern segment. Civil work is under way at KR Market and Chickpet underground stations, and is expected to take long. However, this will not delay operations or inconvenience passengers, officials said. Work like electrification of the tracks and fitting of AC ducts in tunnels and stations is being done with an eye on the April deadline.
 
 Kharola said, “We are working with the directorate of urban land transport (DULT) to design the KR Market station and give the premises a historical touch. While BMRC will carry out the work, the design will be contributed by DULT.”
 
