MUMBAI: Barely a month after their release from a reform home in the infamous   gang rape case, one of the two juveniles in conflict with law, who is now an adult, is on the run. He went missing after two FIRs were registered against him--one at NM Joshi Marg police station for beating up two brothers to extort money and the other at Agripada police station on Tuesday for stabbing one of the brothers.

 He was released from Borstal School, Nashik, after three years. On July 15, 2014, the   had found the two minors' involvement in the two Shakti Mills gang rape cases. The juveniles were directed to be placed under the school's care for good behaviour with directions to provide vocational guidance as well as counselling. Shrikrishna Bhusare, principal and superintendent, said the two were received by their family members after their release.
 
 Bhusare said they had received education and various vocational courses during their time in school. Borstal schools are youth detenion centres run by the state and intended to reform seriously delinquent young juveniles.
 
 Meanwhile, assault victims--Ajay Matkar and brother Amit--were admitted to Nair Hospital. The Matkars have a loading and unloading business at Dhobi Ghat. The accused, the victims alleged, walked into their office a few weeks ago and demanded an extortion amount of Rs 50,000 a month. When they refused to pay, the convict along with several others beat up Amit and stabbed him. The crime was committed near   in Agripada. A case of attempt to murder was registered against the accused, including the convict.
 
 A police team landed at the accused's registered residence. However, they found the chawl has been razed is being redeveloped. “We have got information the accused now lives in another location. Our teams visited that place too, but could not find him. We are working on it and will arrest him soon,“ said a senior police officer. Several police teams have been formed to trace the accused in the assault case. Police sources said they have detained one of the wanted accused, Amit Bhatt, in the assault case. “He was earlier arrested by Antop Hill police a few years ago in connection with a murder case. He was acquitted in the case,“ said an officer.
 
 The juveniles were at a Borstal school in Nashik, for three years. On July 15, 2014, the Juvenile Justice Board had found the two minors' involvement in the two Shakti Mills gang rape cases. They were directed to be placed under the school's care for good behaviour for three years with directions to provide vocational guidance as well as counselling.
 
