 has made the audience wait with bated breath for quite a while, ever since the makers released the trailers that offer a glimpse into its intense plotline. The movie, directed by Jiyen Krishnakumar and written by Murali Gopy, is all set to hit the theatres on July 7, after clearing the roadblocks with the censor board. The settings in the trailers, the fresh star cast and a script on the socio-political drama set in the North Indian milieu, are sure to give the Malayali audience a totally new experience. Here are five reasons why you should not miss it in theatres:
 
 
  
 Mollywood's favourite siblings Indrajith Sukumaran and Prithviraj Sukumaran are coming together in the film after 'Amar Akbar Anthony'. Prithviraj plays the character of Aslan Mohammed while Indrajith’s character is named Pattabhiraman. Both the actors had earlier mentioned that it is one of their most complex and challenging films ever. Indrajith’s post on his social networking page, “Prithvi and me have combined ourselves together in so many movies, but trust me... there was something really really special about this one, thanks to our characters n the way they have been penned! (sic)” reveals that!
 
 
  
 
  
 The movie boasts of an ensemble cast including many actors from North India. North Indian actress Mrudula Sathe will be seen as Prithviraj’s wife in the movie. Other non-Malayali stars include actor Ranjeeth as ‘Khan Sahib’, John Kokken as 'Muttasim Ali Khan', Rajat Mahajan as 'Vikram Singh Yadav' and Sudipto as 'Inspector R C Shukla’. Murali Gopy will play a prominent role, as Remakanth Mahashay. Padmapriya, Ananya, Shine Tom Chacko, Suraj Venjaramoodu, Prakash Bare and Paris Lakshmi are also part of the cast, which includes around 60 character artists. We will also see Indrajith's daughter Nakshatra, who is making her debut in the film.
 Touted to be a socio-political thriller, the film, penned by Murali himself is set against a North Indian backdrop and is based on a how a Malayali finds his footing amid a maze of deceit.
  
 
  
 Padmapriya makes a comeback to   with Tiyaan. The actress plays Vasundhara Devi, the love interest of Murali Gopy’s character in the film. Padmapriya had revealed to us earlier that she is thrilled to play the character, which, according to her is 'simple and straight forward, but unravels the mystery'. “In many ways, my character mirrors the conscience of the antagonist. I will be mostly speaking Hindi in the film as my character is shown as someone hailing from the Hindi-speaking belt,” she had said.
  
 
  
 Another USP of the film is the voiceover given by none other than Mohanlal. Murali Gopy himself had revealed it, which came as a great surprise for Lalettan fans too. Yes, Lalettan has rendered the narration for the movie. Well, do you need anything more to watch the movie?
  
 
  
 With the picturesque locales in North India shown in the trailers, the makers have piqued the curiosity of the audience. The film has been shot in locations like Nasik and Pune and extensively in Ramoji Film City. As per the reports the team shot for months in cities like Varanasi and Ladakh as well. We hear that there are some stellar scenes shot from the Kumbh Mela of 2015, along with several shots featuring 1000 artists in live locations!
 
 The pan Indian movie tells the story on a bigger canvas than that of the usual Mollywood movies. Satheesh Kurup wields the camera and the visuals are top notch.
 
