Potholes and dug-up roads are usually considered civic issues – problems that are limited to electoral promises and grievances. But in several parts of Gurgaon, this civic issue has turned into a lifestyle problem for residents. The roads in and around several societies of the Millennium City are so bad that residents say they have had to sacrifice morning walks, delayed buying that new car, and even bid goodbye to heels!
 
 
 
 Gurgaon loves to run. The numerous runs, races, and marathons held every month in the city are a testament to that. But dug-up and pothole-ridden roads are ruining Gurgaonwallahs’ favourite activity. Amit Rajput, a Sector 71 resident, says, "You go for a morning run or walk because you want to start your day on a refreshing note. You don’t want to twist your ankle or trip because you are running on  . I have given up my morning run ever since I moved here six months ago. Ab toh treadmill ka hi sahara hai."
 
 Some ingenuous Gurgaonwallahs have found a solution to the problem, but they say it is not exactly sustainable. Arundhati Rastogi, a resident of   1, tells us, "In Gurgaon, since the traffic is bad on the main roads, people go for morning runs and walks within their societies. But the roads in Sushant Lok are so bad that that option doesn’t exist for us. So every morning, I drive to the Biodiversity Park, complete my run there, and then drive back home. Who knew I would have to spend money on petrol for a morning run?'
 
 
 
  
    is among the societies with bad roads (BCCL)
 
 
 
 For the residents of Suncity in Sector 54, the problem is more than just lifestyle choices. Residents have complained to civic authorities that the potholes and bad roads are giving them back and neck trouble. Ajit Kumar, a resident, says, "The two main roads for entering and exiting the society are badly damaged and you can’t avoid them if you want to take out your car. Constantly driving on bumpy roads for months has resulted in my back hurting 24x7. I have had to go to a physiotherapist." The RWA of the society says that just this year, at least four accidents have taken place on these roads. Since their complaints have not been attended to, they have now approached the deputy commissioner’s office.
 
 
 
  might have made commuting more convenient, but those living in Gurgaon say that you still need a car to navigate the city. However, for some unlucky souls, bad roads are a roadblock in their new car dreams.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Akash Singh, a resident of DLF Phase 2, says, 'The road behind Cyber City has been dug up for months now. Since I live close by, I have to frequently use that road. I have been postponing buying a car, because I didn’t want the new car to get banged up on that road. As a result, I missed out on all the best festive and year-end offers. Now, the MCG is repairing the road, so maybe if it holds up, I can finally buy a car." 
 
 
 
 Several women say that they have had to give up heels for sneakers, or carry their heels in hand while walking down these treacherous roads. Ridhi Malik, a Sushant Lok resident, tells us, "The road outside the colony is so bad that one can get injured just by walking on it. I have virtually given up wearing heels because I’m seriously worried I might trip and break my foot or something. Even when I have to go for a party, I go out in sneakers, and carry my heels in a bag with me."
 
