GURUGRAM: Fight nights have for long been part of the world  . Now they’re coming to India. And as if on cue, the city will soon boast an academy that will prep boxers for the big time.

 Delhi-based   is coming up with a facility which will have a couple of rings and a top-of-the-line gym. This rooftop academy, being set up inside the Rabindranath Tagore World School premises (DLF Phase-III), is the country’s first training centre dedicated to the pro boxer. 
 
 The academy opens in mid-March, and among those who’ll be sweating it out here are   – a Gurgaon resident (when he’s not in the UK), and India’s main man in the world of pro boxing – as well as stalwarts   and Jitender Kumar. 
 
 The promoters are getting Lee Beard over from   (England) as visiting trainer. He’ll be in town whenever the boxers are in camp. “We’re talking to a couple more trainers, and there will be more visiting coaches coming down from the UK,” Neerav Tomar, promoter, IOS Boxing Promotions, told TOI.
 
 Beard, of course, has been Vijender’s trainer for the last year-and-a-half. “They’re doing very well as a team, and we want them to be involved here.” 
 
 India’s first fight night is penciled in for April 1, in Mumbai. And it sees the return of both Akhil and Jitender to the ring. “The way professional boxing is growing, a centre like this will be of great benefit for the pro boxers,” said Akhil, winner of gold at the 2006 Melbourne Commonwealth Games, of the upcoming academy. 
 
 “It’s a place where they can get fit and ready for pro boxing.” Akhil will be fighting in the super lightweight category when he makes his pro debut in Mumbai, on a night that Vijender will be headlining. 
 
 IOS is looking to host 15 fight nights in the next year or so, each an occasion for fighters like Diwakar Prasad, Amandeep Singh, Neeraj Goyat and Pawan Maan to strut their stuff. “We’ll be having a stable of 25 boxers, and we’ll keep them active, have them training throughout the year.” And, of course, getting them bout-fit.
 
 So it’s a new cast for pro boxing, and Gurgaon’s got a lead role. Come April 1, it will be no day for fools but a groundbreaking fight night.
 
 
