After placing  , the   have plans to provide a  . The move comes after   realised that the   in   has touched an all-time low of 4 kmph.

 Taking it slow and steady, the lanes will be placed at a few places and later spread across the city.
 
 The traffic office has instructed the respective jurisdictional police to get started with the bus lanes at three places in the city. In central business district (CBD), the lane is going to be introduced on Rajaram Mohan Roy Road, starting from Richmond Road till Pallavi theatre next to Hudson circle. Another lane will be introduced on Old Airport Road between Suddaguntepalya and Pai Layout. The third lane will function from Silk Board Junction to Madiwala Traffic Police Station.
 
 Mapping the progress, Additional Commissioner of Police, traffic (ACP) R Hitendra said, “The decision to introduce the bus lane is made by us and it is an attempt to ease traffic. The lane will be used by KSRTC, BMTC and private buses. It is required at some bottlenecks in the city.”
 
 Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) (traffic-east) Abhishek Goyal said, “The reason behind this step is to improve the speed of traffic. We are marking bus lanes in a few places. Over a period, it (the move) will be extended.” A year ago, the average traffic speed was 6-7 km per hour.
 
 The city police have learnt that one of the main reason for the slow traffic movement are the BMTC buses are often driven haphazardly without lane discipline.
 
 They are parked in the middle of the road that clogs other vehicles too.
 
 
 
 The police have procured barricades to make the bus lane. A senior officer said, “We did not go for traffic cones or just painting the lane with ‘Yellow’ colour. Instead, we decided to place barricades to ensure that the buses do not cross this.
 
 The police have put some barricades have already started to stop and move the BMTC buses in the lane. Deputy Commissioner of Police (traffic-north) Renuka Sukumar said, as of now we need bus lane only in Hebbal and it is in practice. The idea of beginning the bus lane was mooted by BMTC especially on Old Airport Road and Whitefield to ensure speed pickup and reduce the travelling time, but the proposal did not find success. Traffic expert, JM Chandra Kishan admitted that the traffic speed has been reduced to three-four km per hour in the city. He said, “Police assigning dedicated lane will help increase the traffic flow. Advantage of having dedicated lanes for buses is they move seamlessly and don’t get stuck in traffic.
 
 However, he pointed out the challenges for implementing the idea. “We can implement it in only few roads as they are not scientifically planned. Also, the heterogeneous traffic of the city, where even an auto moves on the left lane of the road, can be a problem,” he said.
 
 
