BHUBANESWAR: Police are exploring the legal feasibility of attaching properties of   on the ground that he allegedly amassed huge assets via crime path. So far, the Paradeep police in Jagatsinghpur district dug out at least 13 criminal cases against Mishra, who was arrested from Bangkok on December 25 last year for allegedly masterminding the murder of Seaways Shipping executive Mahendra Swain at Paradeep on last October 26.

 Mishra, who owns Orissa Stevedores Limited (OSL), is said to have possessed assets over Rs 10,000 crore. “We already froze his bank accounts having deposits of nearly Rs 5 crore. We are consulting with lawyers whether we can attach his entire property and other bank accounts. We strongly suspect he earned bulk of his assets illegally. Though he forayed into several businesses, his core trade was stevedoring. He forcibly bagged several cargo handling contracts. It was evident from Swain’s murder as Seaways Shipping emerged as a major threat to his business and monopoly,” a senior police officer told TOI.
 
 Police have prepared a strong case diary against Mishra, who enjoyed solid clout in police and power corridor, and submitted in the district and sessions court a few days ago. Mishra’s alleged involvement in crime started from 1995, though he was never sent to jail. Though was arrested in connection with murder of trade union leader Bichitrananda Mallick in May 1998, he had managed to get bail. 
 
 “We have told the court how he set up his business empire and flourished despite getting involved in so many cases. We are hopeful the court will not grant him bail,” the officer said.
 
 In the case diary, the police mentioned suspicious withdrawal of around Rs 80 lakh in cash by Mishra from his company accounts on different dates between August and September last year. “We strongly suspect he was in possession of the huge cash to materialize the murder of Swain,” the police officer said.
 
 In a related development, the commissionerate police here are likely to seek remand of Mishra for interrogation in connection with a case registered against him in February 2016. The Mancheswar police had registered the case against him as well as his associate Basant Bal and Congress leader Arindam Sarkhel, aka Bapi on the basis of a complaint by Mishra’s rival businessman Pranakrushna Nayak, who alleged that the trio hurled bombs on his house on February 26, 2016. Bal and Sarkhel were already arrested in connection with Swain’s murder case. While Sarkhel is still in judicial custody, Bal has been undergoing treatment at SCB medical in Cuttack under police custody.
 
 On Friday,   filed a fresh application before the district and sessions judge of Jagatsinghpur seeking bail, said  , public prosecutor of the court. Before getting arrested, Mahima and Basant Bal, director of OSL, had filed a petition before the Orissa high court seeking anticipatory
 bail. However, the high court denied interim protection to them.
 
 Earlier, the district and sessions judge of   had rejected bail applications filed by other accused persons Rakesh Chaubey of Jharkhand and Congress leader Bapi Sarkhel in this case.
 
