RANCHI: The   will be a riot of colours with   focusing on a variety of  . However, the artists at work at Morhabadi ground complain that they might not be able to showcase their best work in all the tableaux due to lack of time. 

 Sanjay Kumar Verma, a proprietor handling the contract for six of the 23 tableaux, said, "We started work on January 16 which means we do not have enough time to give our best on all the tableaux. Official paper work, which began on January, took up most of our time. However, we are doing the best we can and people will certainly appreciate the work."
 
 As many as 10 departments of the state government will be represented at the parade and will compete against one another for the top prize. The 23 representations which are meant to educate and also narrate the glory of the state, have been prepared by more than 300 artisans.
 
  "We have artists from different places in Bengal and Jharkhand; most of them are from Purulia and Ranchi. They get paid anywhere between Rs 500 and Rs 1,200 for each day's work depending on the kind of work they are doing. I and some people in my team have been making tableaux here since the creation of the state," said Sukhdev Sagar, a seasoned artist who is coordinating with nine people on the ground. 
 
 He also said, "It is true that we have started work late this time as compared to last year."
 
 Sanjay Kumar, principal secretary IPRD said, "I am not aware of any such delay. However, we manage to get the tableaux ready in time every year."
 
 The forest department's tableaux, which is almost ready, is a plea for afforestation and provides an illustration of afforested and deforested areas. A relevant message is narrated by the women and child welfare department's tableau which mourns the act of witch-hunting. 
 
 An illustration theme on Hanuman's birth at Anjandham temple in Gumla has been prepared by   and will give people a chance to revisit the birth of the Ram devotee. Other tableaux such as that of the art and culture department, which is a depiction of Tagore Hill and an anti-drug abuse narrative by the health department are also worth looking forward to.
 
 
