SRINAGAR: A video of a Kashmiri youth tied to the fender of an   jeep as a “shield” sparked a major controversy even as Army sources maintained on Friday that the man was a stone-pelter and that the move facilitated safe passage of a five-vehicle convoy without a bullet being fired. 

 Protests from human rights groups and criticism from most political parties after the video went viral, however, saw the Army order a probe into what was purportedly an operation to “extricate” trapped security personnel.
 
 Former J&K chief minister   posted pictures and a video on Twitter along with a comment: “This young man was tied to the front of an Army jeep to make sure no stones were thrown at the jeep? This is just so shocking!” 
 
 
 
 
 Army sources claimed that the highly controversial act helped save lives. It claimed that the Rashtriya Rifles company commander at Budgam swung into action with his quick-reaction team on April 9 after getting an SOS from a dozen trapped ITBP and J&K police personnel as well as election officials at a polling booth, which had been surrounded by a mob of over 500 stone-pelting protesters.
 
 "The Army soldiers caught one of the stone-pelters and tied him to the bonnet of the jeep to ensure safe passage of the five-vehicle convoy through the stone-pelters, some of whom were positioned on rooftops,” said an officer. 
 
 
 The personnel and equipment was rescued and the alleged stone-pelter was later handed over to local police.
 
 The 16-second video of the human shield sparked outrage in the Valley. The man, in jeans and traditional Kashmiri pheran, was tied with a rope to the front of the jeep with a white sheet of paper scribbled with a warning strapped around his waist.
 
 Defence spokesman Col Rajesh Kalia said the Army had ordered a probe to check the authenticity of the video and investigate the incident. The vehicle was reportedly passing through Gundipora village of Beerwah where re-polling was held on Thursday. A loudspeaker warning that stone-pelters would meet with the same fate as the man, could be heard in the video, which would be forensically examined. 
 
 The Army source said all the trapped personnel were rescued. The Army identified 26-year-old Farooq Ahmad Dar of Chill Brass, Arizal area of Budgam district, as a stone-pelter. But his brother, Fayaz Ahmad Dar, told TOI that Farooq was not a stone-pelter and had even voted at Chill Brass at a polling stationon Sunday.
 
 Later, Fayaz said his brother is a shawl-weaver and was returning home in the afternoon from Gampora village of Beerwah, where he had gone to his sister’s in-laws’ residence to convey condolences over the death of a family member. Fayaz alleged Farooq was stopped by the Army in Beerwah and beaten up and his motorbike damaged. “A poster was tied to his chest which read: I am a stone-pelter,” Fayaz said.
 
 “The family went to the police late evening on Thursday but they refused to lodge a complaint. Later, we went to Arizal Army camp. The Army unit released him, but retained his cell phone and motor bike.”
 
