JAIPUR: About a dozen goons attacked filmmaker   on January 27 in which people were seen slapping him and pulling his hair and the whole incident was caught on camera and later went viral. On Thursday, an activist who has been protesting   and stone crushing was roughed up by goons in the very office of the state pollution control board. The attack, however, has gone largely unnoticed. Activist   sustained stitches on his ear.

 Shuklawas, who has been working on human rights and environmental issues, has received life threats in the past too. On Thursday, he was meeting officials of pollution control board to seek that they enforce the ban on crushing of stone by a private firm, Krishna Mineral, in the Kotputhli area of Jaipur. The private firm had been using an illegal stone crusher in the area and causing pollution despite being barred from such activity by an order from the pollution control authority on January 20. 
 
 A press release from the People’s Union for Civil Liberties on Friday said that Shuklawas arrived at the pollution control board seeking that its earlier orders be enforced at a time when Mohan Singh Shekhawat and two others from the private firm were already present there. The men attacked the activist and left him wounded.
 
 Activists said that it was alarming that the attack occurred within the premises of a government office. “That such a brazen attack should occur within a government office speaks volumes. How can a government functionary be expected to discharge his or her duties without fear? That a government office should be the site of such a vicious attack only shows what kind of challenges we are faced with,” said Mukesh Nirvasit of the Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sanghatan.
 
 What was also surprising was that the pollution control board did not approach police. An FIR was registered at the Murlipura police station after the activist took the matter to cops.
 
 Activists have demanded that action be taken expeditiously against Shekhawat and his associates, who should be arrested at the earliest. Krishna Mineral should not be allowed to continue crushing stone in the area in defiance of government orders. They are also demanding that illegal mining and stone-crushing in Kotputhli and Neem Ka Thana be probed by a retired judge so that the impact of the illegal activity on the health of local people, the environment and agriculture are all better documented.
 
 
