MUMBAI: Having clinched India's lone gold medal in the Asian Wrestling Championships that concluded in New Delhi on Sunday, one would have expected   to take a few days off, soak in the adulation, and then return to the mat to train for greater challenges that await him in the second half of 2017.

 But, that was not to be. On Monday evening, Bajrang was back to sweating it out at the new academy set up by his mentor   in Bali, a village about 30 kilometres from Sonepat in Haryana. "I would have loved to take some rest, but Yogi bhai (Yogeshwar) would have none of it. He told me to come for training straight away, so it's back to work," a cheerful Bajrang told TOI.
 
 Bajrang beat South Korea's   6-2 to ensure a place on top of the podium in the 65kg category on Saturday. But, in earlier years, things had been tricky for the 23-year-old, who fought in the same 60kg category as that of Yogeshwar. In such a scenario, the youngster had to make way for his illustrious counterpart more often than not, but he did it without complaining.
 
 Later, when wrestling's international body ( ) altered weight categories, Yogeshwar moved to the 65kg, and Bajrang was promoted to the 61kg, something he hardly preferred. It's only in the former's absence that the youngster, who took to wrestling as a seven-year-old, got a chance to perform in the 65kg category.
 
 Bajrang now wants to ensure that he keeps performing consistently so that he can carry on fighting in this category in the years to come. "Winning gold in the Asian Championships is a big achievement and it makes me proud. But, as you know, there are bigger competitions that I would like to win medals in. I have already shifted focus to the World Championships that will be held in France in August. The competition there will be much tougher, and I will have to work a lot harder to stand a chance."
 
 So, what are the areas he needs to cover before the global meet? "As of now, our focus is on strength training. That's very important for me as I want to be more aggressive on the mat," explained Bajrang. "I am going to put on a few kilos and then lose it gradually prior to the World Championships."
 
 Although the Asian Championships were being held in the Capital, there were large sections of the stadium that went unoccupied even for bouts that saw numerous Indians feature in them. Bajrang agreed that he would have been happier if more people had come to cheer them. "Obviously, we would have liked more people to come there. It would have boosted our confidence further," he said. Perhaps, things will change the next time round.
 
