KOCHI: If   gets hit in the coming days some of the   have come up with a   their recipes using mutton and beef.

 These city hotels are bracing for innovations in their daily menu in the wake of indefinite strike called by All Kerala Chicken Dealers Association, Poultry Farmers and Traders Association and All Kerala Poultry Federation from Monday .
 
 “In case the supply of chicken gets hit for more than aday or two we will have to consider reworking our menu and recipes. Chicken-based dishes are quite popular with customers, and we will have to try out whether it would be possible to prepare these dishes using other meat,“ said Toufique, owner of Sona Hotel, MG Road. Hoteliers said they would try their best to source chicken directly from farms and other sources they could rely on.Chicken is one of the cheapest meats available in the market.“We will make an effort to reach out to all those who are engaged in poultry farming to source it. Though beef and mut ton is available as an alternate it can create a dent in the pocket,“ said Sajeev, supervisor, Ceylon Hotel.
 
 Meanwhile, most city hotels said they are closely watching the situation. If the strike gets prolonged they fear it could lead to escalation of beef and mutton prices.
 
 However, a section of   said fall in production as the main cause for the recent price hike of chicken.Some of them indirectly attributed the hike to GST rollout.
 
 Ayub of Bismi Halal Chicken Centre said ever since introducing GST, the sale of chicken in his shop has been adversely affected. He is of the opinion that the hasty rollout of GST is one of the reasons for the price hike.
 
 “Public is under the impression that we raised the price of chicken because of GST.But the actual reason is the low poultry production in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka other states.The farmers in the state almost stopped the poultry production fearing GST,“ said Senthil Kumar P , manager, Sree Gurujees Group, Perumbavoor, Kochi. He said the directive by finance minister Thomas Isaac to reduce the cost of chicken to Rs 87kg is not practical. He said when poultry production increases the prices would naturally come down, and it would take another three to four weeks.
 
