NEW DELHI:   chief minister   met Bangladesh Prime Minister   over a private dinner at   on Saturday.

 The bonhomie between the two is expected to find a way for the accord to share   waters without hurting the interests of people on either side of the border.
 
 In fact, during her meeting with Sheikh Hasina, Mamata is learnt to have suggested that since Bangladesh needs more water, both sides should explore water-sharing from other river systems in the region too and not just from Teesta. 
 
 With fears that too much water from Teesta flowing into Bangladesh could leave North Bengal dry, Mamata’s suggestion is to provide water to Bangladesh from Torsha river instead, which would be easier for Bengal as there are three river systems in the region, said sources.
 
 Making sure that she had more on the plate to offer Dhaka as good relations with Bangladesh is to the advantage of Bengal which shares the longest border with the neighbouring country, Mamata offered to provide electricity during her meeting with Hasina in the presence of Prime Minister   earlier in the day. 
 
 Claiming that Bengal has excess electricity which could be sold to Dhaka, Mamata made the offer which Modi immediately accepted, it was learnt.
 
 Soon after, Mamata sent an official letter to Modi on the issue, sources said. It is also easier for Dhaka to take power from Bengal rather than from Bhutan as is the case at present.
 
 During her meeting with Sheikh Hasina and PM Modi at the  , held before an official lunch hosted by the PM with a traditional Bengali spread, sources said Mamata expressed her reservations against sharing too much of Teesta waters with Bangladesh.
 
 Referring to the Teesta agreement, Modi said the pact is important for India-Bangladesh relations and expressed hope that Mamata will eventually support it. 
 
 “I am very happy that the chief minister of West Bengal is my honoured guest today. I know that her feelings for Bangladesh are as warm as my own. I assure you and the people of Bangladesh of our commitment and continuing efforts,” Modi said.
 
 When Hasina arrived at the Delhi airport on Friday, she told reporters that she would be meeting Mamata exclusively on this trip. 
 
 After the Bengal CM arrived in the capital, she sent across her gifts, including a ‘Baluchari sari’, to Sheikh Hasina who is staying at the Rashtrapati Bhavan as a guest of President  . 
 
 Hasina also sent across gifts, including the famed Dhakai sari, to Mamata on Friday evening.
 
 Before her dinner meeting with Hasina, Mamata also met Delhi chief minister  .
 
