Mumbai:   has asked banks to report any cyber security incident within two to six hours. RBI has also warned lenders that any delay in reporting and flagging loan frauds could result in banks and bankers being charged for abetting the criminal offence.

 RBI deputy governor   said that the central bank has received information on several cyber incidents — including ransomware attack, debit card frauds or unauthorised access to bank servers — and lenders have failed to report incidents in time. His warning comes at a time when the government is pushing digital payments in a big way, including new channels such as the Aadhaar-Enabled Payment System ( ) and the ‘BHIM’ app launched by the National Payments Corporation of India, which runs on the Unified Payment Interface.
 
 The government’s response to cyber security has been to announce in the Budget the creation of a Computer Emergency Response Team ( ) for   in the financial sector. On its part, the RBI has created a specialised cell (C-SITE) within its supervision department to conduct detailed IT examination of banks’ cyber security preparedness, to identify gaps and to monitor the progress of remedial measures. The central bank plans a detailed IT examination of 30 banks in FY17.
 
 The issues were highlighted by Mundra while speaking at a seminar on financial crimes management in Mumbai this week. Mundra said there have been several cyber incidents, both in India and globally. “There is an increasing trend in incidents pertaining to theft of personal information, abuse of ATMs and distributed denial of service attacks.We have witnessed an attempt to defraud a bank by abusing the SWIFT messaging system, which thankfully could be salvaged post event without any apparent monetary loss”
 
 Unlike other countries, India does not have any data breach disclosure norms. However, as a regulator, the RBI has asked banks to share information so that the central bank can warn other banks about the breach on a ‘no names’ basis. However, banks still continue to suppress such information, Mundra said. “The world has learnt that in dealing with cyber attacks, awareness and sharing of information plays an important role. Knowledge on cyber-related aspects is relevant for all stakeholders, including board members. We often observe that this key premise is ignored,” he said.
 
 While cyber security is an emerging threat, a bulk of the frauds (92%) continue to be on the lending side. “In almost all the cases, we observed that the exposure had got seasoned as an NPA for three to four years before the borrower was declared as fraudulent. As a consequence, the gap between the date of occurrence and detection has been widening. Further, the gap between first bank and the last bank reporting the borrowal account as fraud to the RBI is also very long,” said Mundra.
 
 
