KOLKATA:   Arjan Singh deserves the  , former chief of the air staff Air Chief Marshal Arup Raha (retd) told TOI minutes after he passed away at the Army’s R&R Hospital in Delhi on Saturday evening. 

 Air Chief Marshal Raha is on a private visit to Delhi and visited Singh at hospital after coming to know of his condition. 
 
 “He was always fit and had a military bearing. This was noticeable even during his last moments when I was by his side. I was told that he even responded to salutes when they wheeled him into the hospital. This is something great for a person who has suffered a cardiac arrest. I feel that he deserves the Bharat Ratna. For that matter, so does former Field Marshal SHFJ Manekshaw. They were inspirations for the whole country as well as the armed forces,” Air Chief Marshal Raha said. 
 
 According to him, the   (IAF) and the armed forces lost an iconic and visionary military leader. 
 
 “He was the country’s first Marshal of the Air and did exceptionally well during the 1965 Indo-Pak War when he was chief of the air staff. There were several firsts for him. He, along with others greats like former air chief Subroto Mukerjee laid a strong foundation for the IAF. He led from the front and everybody loved and looked up to him. There was this glow on his face and he would always smile. During my tenure, I had several interactions with him and sought his guidance. He also did very well in public life and served the nation always,” the former air chief said.
 
 Marshal of the Air   was truly a legend. Between February and June 1944, when Imphal was nearly under siege by Japanese forces, pilots of the Royal Indian Air Force’s No 1 Squadron (Tigers) flew nearly 1,928 duly recorded sorties and it was led by Singh, then a young Squadron Leader. 
 
 Later, as Marshal of the Air, he wrote: “World War-II was quite a boon to the IAF. The performance of No. 1 Squadron in Burma in 1942 against the superior Japanese Forces had proved the fighting skills of its pilots and highly recognised efficiency of our technicians against a formidable enemy. That is how the rapid expansion of the IAF took place.”
 
 It was at Koirangee (Imphal Main as it was then known and now, an abandoned airstrip) where Lord Louis Mountbatten pinned the Distinguished Flying Cross on Squadron Leader Singh’s lapel. On April 15, 2016, on his 97th birthday, Air Force Station Panagarh in West Bengal was renamed Air Force Station   Singh in his honour.
 
 
