KOLKATA: A fresh case of   was filed against   on Saturday. The relatives of  , a Beliaghata resident, claim that she developed a major problem in one of her legs and Apollo authorities told her she needed immediate amputation. Accordingly, Chakraborty got admitted at the hospital on February 1. However, the family alleges the operation was not started on time as they could not arrange for money. 

 Apparently, the hospital asked them to deposit the PAN card of the person who issued the cheque until it was encashed. The family also claimed the hospital staffers turned hostile when they asked for the PAN card once the bill amount was deducted from the account. Shocked, the family finally lodged a complaint with the Phoolbagan Police on Saturday. 
 
 Meanwhile, the investigators probing   and extortion allegations made by Ruby Roy against Apollo Hospitals has asked the hospital GM (pharmacy), Shekhar Sharma, to appear for questionning on Saturday. A police source said he is likely to be questioned on the apparent "disparity" of the cost of medicines in the open market and what has been charged from deceased patient Sanjoy as claimed by his wife. Sharma joins a long list of Apollo officials whose statements are being recorded in this regard.
 
 The development comes on the same day when two Apollo servers were sent for forensic testing. The main reason behind sending them to forensic audit was to ascertain if the bills were generated from the billing department without the express consent of the pharmacy wing, a source said. No one from Apollo could be contacted.
 
 Meanwhile, Alipore Police have asked CMRI Hospital to provide a list of all its employees on duty on the ground floor and emergency ward the day accident victim Sunil Patra was allegedly refused admission. A police officer said, after recording statements of the two hospital officials, cops will begin formal questioning from Monday. "We have sought details of his health condition from SSKM where he was finally admitted.
 
