THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: After disrupting the NH widening works for two weeks, the Kazhakoottam-Karode national highway Action Council has temporary called off the   following a meeting with district administration. Road widening works in Mukkola-Karode stretch were resumed after 15 days on Friday.

 The action council began strike demanding better compensation for people in five villages alongside the Mukkola-Karode stretch on May 11.   were affected after the protesters obstructed workers from carrying out construction activities.
 
 A meeting was convened by deputy collector (land acquisition) on Friday where the action council was given assurance that all petitions will be cleared within three months. 
 
 “As a first step, the district administration has informed around 100 petitioners that their cases will be taken up on May 31. We had demanded a compensation which is 30% more than the market value and interest. The district administration has asked us to submit our demands to the arbitrator,” said V Sudhakaran, chairman of the action council.
 
 Former MLA Jameela Prakasham inaugurated the concluding function held at Vengapotta in Kottukal on Friday.
 
 In the district-level purchase committee meeting held in 2013, land from   to   was categorised as A, B, C and D. 
 
 A category plots were offered Rs 5.25 lakh and plots under remaining categories 10% lesser amount. However, people in Chenkal-Karode villages were offered lesser amount, which they protested. Following this, deputy collector (land acquisition NH) arbitrarily fixed fair value for land in the Mukkola-Karode stretch. Thus, A category plots in Kottukal, Kanjiramkulam and Thirupuram villages got only Rs 3.42 lakh and A category plots in Chenkal-Karode villages got Rs 2.6 lakh. Plots under other categories got 10% lesser amount.
 
 Following this, the people in the areas approached district collector, who is the arbitrator in case of complaints against compensation. 
 
 There was a delay in a decision by arbitrator due to issues in appointment of an assistant to arbitrator. With the NHAI recently appointing an assistant, they issue was resolved.
 
