HYDERABAD: About 37 per cent of   victims in the city, till May, are  , statistics show.

  experts say that due to lack of rules and regulations against jaywalkers, these accidents are likely to go up.
 
 According to Vinod Kumar Kanumala, founder of the Indian Federation of Road Safety, jaywalking is one of the main reasons for accidents. Lack of rules and poor enforcement helps jaywalkers to get away scot free. “In most cases, pedestrians themselves are at fault. The pedestrians show negligence while crossing roads and are not held accountable.Who follows rules unless they are penalised.
 
 Jaywalking is common in the city. I have seen people crossing roads even when the signal is green, and traffic police do not act on it ,” said Vinod. The city has five foot-over bridges, however, most of them are not used by pedestrians. They tend to cross roads even in the heavy traffic areas.
 
 “We agree that pedestrians cross the roads in a zigzag manner, which cause several accidents. But this is because of lack of awareness among pedestrians on road safety. We have identified this problem and have started counselling pedestrians in several places ,” said V. Ravinder, joint commissioner of traffic police. Hyderabad traffic commissioner said the situation will not change unless the city creates a proper atmosphere for pedestrians to travel.
 
 The traffic commissioner said that authorities have planned side barricades to prevent pedestrians from crossing the roads negligently. Another problem cited by many pedestrians are lack of proper footpaths in the city. “Police expect us to walk on footpaths, but in many places, footpaths are encroached by hawkers or used as parking spaces. So pedestrians have no option but to walk on the road,” said P Vekannaiah, a pedestrian.
 
 However, pedestrians say that vehicles stop on the zebra crossing, which leaves no space for the walkers to cross the road. “ Drivers are blamed always for accidents, and traffic police do not sensitise pedestrians. Both drivers and walkers should be made aware of the consequences.
 
 If the pedestrians are faulty, police should also make them pay penalties,” said Mohit Jagan, an expert on road safety
 
