HYDERABAD: Heavy dark clouds, which hung over the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium and threatened to spoil the Sunday fun, had induced  ' skipper   to invite   to bat first. The rain gods, however, chose to stay off and watch the Sunrisers' captain   cause mayhem with the willow.

 Rains did come when Kolkata were replying to the mammoth Hyderabad total of 209/3. But it didn't cause a long disruption. The match resumed in a while and Sunrisers duly completed a 48-run win as Kolkata finished at 161/7.
 
 Chasing over 10 an over and the highest score posted against them, the Knight Riders succumbed to the pressure early in their reply. Sunil Narine (1) and Gautam Gambhir (11) perished going for the big shots with just 12 on the board.   continued to display brilliant form, belting 53 off 28 balls but his dismissal all but ended Kolkata's resistance.
 
 Earlier, Warner held centrestage for 80 minutes during which he scored 126 off 59 balls with 10 hits to the fence and eight over it. Kane Williamson continued with his rich form as he chipped in with a useful 40 (25b; 5x4) to take the score past the 200 mark for the third time this season. This is the hosts' best score in the   - the earlier was 208 against Royal Challengers Bangalore in the 2016 final.
 
 Warner began with a boundary off the fourth ball off Nathan Coulter-Nile and there was no looking back thereafter. A couple of close calls notwithstanding, Warner was in supreme command. The ease with which he picked the length of the ball and deposited the cherry in the areas he willed, Warner was at his very best.
 
 In the second over, Warner hit Umesh for a six and took Chris Woakes to the cleaners. Warner then welcomed Sunil Warner with a reverse sweep six which landed among the home side's cheerleaders, who squeaked with utter delight. That more or less set the tone for the evening.
 
 The 31-year-old Warner drove, cut, pulled and even employed the switch-hit with such impunity and cheekiness that the Knight Riders had no clue about how to stop the marauding Australian, who went on to notch his first century for the Sunrisers Hyderabad. This was his third century in IPL - he has two for Delhi Daredevils.
 
