HYDERABAD: In a political masterstroke to derive the maximum mileage out of granting reservations to Muslims, the TRS government on Monday decided to hold a special session of the assembly in order to pass the proposed quota bill for the minority community. To facilitate the same, the budget session which concluded on Monday, was adjourned sine die and not prorogued as is the practice. 

 The special session will be held next week and depending on the number of speakers, it will be held either for a day or two. Sources said the TRS go vernment wants to net the minority vote by bringing pressure on   government to include the expanded quota in the ninth schedule of the Constitution.
 
 “We will convene the assembly to pass the reservation bill on the next convenient date, probably next week. We are not giving reservations on the basis of religion, but backwardness. Muslim reservations are already in place and we are only going to increase the same by four of five per cent based on the   recommendation,“ chief minister   said in the assembly .
 
 While acknowledging the opposition to the reservations, the TRS has decided to use this as its main weapon against the   which is trying to expand its reach in Telangana.
 
 The sources in the government disclosed that though the BC Commission headed by   has already finalised the report, some tech nical issues cropped up in the last minute forcing a delay in the submission of the same.Finally , the law department pointed out to the absence of terms of reference in the commission which should be notified before the start of any activity. The same is being amended, they added. Similarly , there were divergent opinions over the per cent of reservation to poor Muslims. As per the TRS election manifesto, it should be 12 per cent, whereas the commission and the earlier   has recommended 8 to 9 per cent quota. The MIM party and other Muslim groups are demanding fulfillment of the election promise without actually going into the recommendations. The chief minister held a series of meetings with officials of the backward welfare department and some Muslim legislators in the party to chalk out the final strategy . Law department officials cautioned about a prolonged litigation on the proposed reservations in the backdrop of earlier judgments of the high court.
 
