WASHINGTON: US President   and Japanese Prime Minister   have vowed to strengthen defence and   and agreed to make the   more fair.

 "We are committed to the security of Japan and all areas under its administrative control and to further strengthening our very crucial alliance. The   alliance is the cornerstone of peace and stability in the Pacific region," Trump told reporters at a joint news conference with Abe at the White House on Friday.
 
 After the meeting, Trump insisted that it is important that both Japan and the US continue to invest heavily in the alliance to build up their defence capabilities which, under their leadership, will become stronger and stronger, and as time goes by, ultimately they will be impenetrable.
 
 Trump said the two countries face numerous challenges and bilateral cooperation is essential to address them.
 
 "We will work together to promote our shared interests, of which we have many, in the region, including freedom of navigation and defending against the North Korean missile and nuclear threat, both of which I consider a very, very high priority," Trump said.
 
 "On the economy, we will seek a trading relationship that is free, fair and reciprocal, benefiting both of our countries. The vibrant exchange between us is a true blessing," Trump said.
 
 Abe, speaking in Japanese, congratulated Trump on being elected as the US President. Abe was one of the first world leader who travelled to the US to congratulate Trump ahead of his swearing-in in January.
 
 "The mutually beneficial economic relations have been built by Japan and the US," he said.
 
 With Trump taking on the leadership, Abe said big infrastructure investments will be made, including in high-speed train technology.
 
 "Japanese bullet trains are known for their speed, and safety," Abe said, adding, with the latest magnetic technology, it would take only one hour to travel from from Washington, DC to New York where Trump Tower exists.
 
 Japan, with its high-level of technical capability will be able to contribute to Trump's growth strategy, he said.
 
 The two leaders in a joint-statement announced a three- pronged approach of mutually-reinforcing fiscal, monetary, and structural policies to strengthen domestic and global economic demand.
 
 Trump and Abe discussed opportunities and challenges facing their economies and the need to promote inclusive growth and prosperity in their countries, the Asia-Pacific region, and the world.
 
 "They emphasised they remain fully committed to strengthening the economic relationships between their two countries and across the region, based on rules for free and fair trade," the joint statement said. 
 
 "This will include setting high trade and investment standards, reducing market barriers, and enhancing opportunities for economic and job growth in the Asia-Pacific," the joint statement said.
 
 Trump and Abe affirmed the commitment of the US and Japan to the realignment of US forces in Japan, to ensure the long- term, sustainable presence of US forces, it said.
 
 They also confirmed that Article V of the US-Japan Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security covers the Senkaku Islands.
 
 "They oppose any unilateral action that seeks to undermine Japan's administration of these islands," the joint statement said.
 
 The US and Japan will deepen cooperation to safeguard the peace and stability of the East China Sea, it said, adding that the two leaders underscored the importance of maintaining a maritime order based on international law, including freedom of navigation and overflight and other lawful uses of the sea.
 
 "The US and Japan oppose any attempt to assert maritime claims through the use of intimidation, coercion or force.
 
 "The US and Japan also call on countries concerned to avoid actions that would escalate tensions in the South China Sea, including the militarisation of outposts, and to act in accordance with international law," the joint statement said.
 
