AGARTALA: The state BJP on Tuesday announced a series of protest programmes in Tripura from April 7 demanding the resignation of chief minister  . 

 BJP state president Biplab Kumar Deb said BJP's Yuba Morcha will start an indefinite sit-in in Agartala from April 11 demanding the resignation of Sarkar, livelihood for 10,323 jobless teachers, employment for 7.5 lakh youths and implementation of 7th Central   for government employees.
 
 On April 10, the party will stage demonstrations across the state demanding adequate reservation for OBCs. On April 7, the party's women front will hold a dharna followed by a 'secretariat abhiyan' to protest against increasing atrocities and crime against women in the state, said Deb.
 
 Deb pointed out that crime agaisnt women in Tripura has crossed previous records of the country and the   government has not taken adequate measures for providing security to women. "Women are becoming victims of brutal crimes and the government has failed to ensure their protection," he said. He added that unless the Leftists are ousted from the power in the next election, people of Tripura will continue to suffer. 
 
 Referring to the termination of 10,323 teachers by the  , he said the Tripura high court had told the government three years ago that the appointment of these teachers was illegal, unfair and unconstitutional. But the state government indulged in petty politics by appealing to the apex court, he added. 
 
 "They are still giving false promises to the victim teachers that the government will help them in retaining their jobs or provide them other jobs. In the present context, without merit, no one can get a government job. If BJP comes to power, it will provide livelihood to the unemployed by skill development and entrepreneurship development programmes," said Deb. 
 
 He added that after conquering Uttar Pradesh, Uttrakhand, Manipur and Goa in the recently concluded assembly elections, a resurgent BJP leadership is trying to strengthen the organization before the 2018 assembly polls in Tripura.
 
 To provide a political roadmap on how to topple the Marxist government, BJP president   will arrive here on May 7. He is scheduled to hold a brainstorming session with the party leaders here for formulating election strategy, said BJP observer Sunil Deodhar. "Tripura is the main target for BJP although Meghalaya is also on the party's radar. We feel the party can win in Tripura riding on the organization's strength. That's why Amit Shahji's visit holds the key for the state party unit," he added. 
 
