
Excerpts from an interview ...
 
 
 
 
 A. Filtration and purification of water is a complex process and involves many stages. There is not a single unit of unpackaged water that is diligently following all the procedures. Operating in shady small rooms, they don’t even have the basic infrastructure like cleaning room or laboratories. Even if they claim that the water is RO and UV treated, the water does not undergo chemical and microbiological tests, which are made mandatory by BIS to check for microbial growth. Unless there are checks, there is no assurance of the quality of water being sold. Moreover, the gas used in chillers is very harmful for humans.
 
 
 
 
 A. Yes, as the laws clearly state that only packaged drinking water can be sold. What if I start making liquor or petrol at my house and sell it — will that be legitimate? Unpackaged water units have no testing parameters, how can they demand to fit under any law? Even a small paan kiosk or an eatery gets an FDA license. These units don’t have consent from a single authority. There is no code for them in the   (DIC). 
 
 
 
 
 A. Our units are regularly inspected by authorities like BIS and Food and Drug Administration (FDA). They randomly lift samples of our products from any location and test them in their own laboratories. We are under constant watch, but who is there to monitor chilled water units?
 
 
 
 A. In such cases, we are first asked to make changes at the production level. The process is termed as ‘stop marking’. We stop the manufacturing and that entire batch is recalled from the market. The authorities re-check the product for all parameters in their laboratories. If we fail to deliver quality product for over three times, they can take away our licenses.
 
 
 
 
 A. As per the data that was submitted in the Nagpur bench of high court during a hearing, FDA has received over 200 complaints against unpackaged drinking water all over the state. It’s not a commercial fight for us — all we are saying is that rules should be same for everyone as drinking water concerns health of the public. It takes Rs80-90,000 to set-up a basic unit for manufacturing chilled water while we spend Rs30-40 lakhs just to ensure that water we sell is completely safe. If they are poor and cannot afford a proper set-up they should not be in the business playing with human lives. 
 
 
 
 A. Lethargy and corruption are the main reasons. The business has survived so many years because they had support from the authorities. Since last two years, we have been running from one government body to another but our complaints were never taken seriously, despite this being such a serious matter. There has never been a government propaganda against such units, no awareness campaigns. Recently, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Nagpur, over 2000 cans of chilled water were ordered for people. But all the ministers were drinking mineral water. 
 
