BHOPAL: The National Green Tribunal,   bench has given an ultimatum to Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) to   from residential areas of the city failing which they would be closed after the expiry of  

 There are around 750 dairies which need to be shifted from within the city limits. After the intervention of the green panel, it was decided that existing dairies in Bhopal will be shifted out of the city limits and the civic body has submitted before the bench that seven sites have been identified for the purpose.
 
 A petition filed by Sunil Sharma alleged that more than 700 dairies are falling within the BMC’s jurisdiction of 85 wards in 19 zones of the city. The bench while hearing the case was told by the state respondents that the policy in this behalf for the entire state was pending for approval before the Cabinet.
 
 In reply, the bench said the matter cannot be allowed to be kept in abeyance till the said policy is framed and added, “The shifting should positively be carried out by June 15, 2017 and compliance be reported to this tribunal on July 3, 2017.”
 
 The bench headed by Judicial member Justice Dalip Singh further directed that notices to the identified people for shifting their animals and dairies to the respective places identified for them be issued within a week.
 
 “The plans that have been prepared by the BMC for development of the dairy hub at the 7 different locations and also the size of the sheds and the number of animals to be retained being in consonance with the provision made by the Animal Husbandry Department needs to be approved and the municipal corporation needs to proceed with the same,” the green bench said.
 
 “The notice shall also state the period within which the option must be exercised by the dairy owners, failing which the dairies shall be ordered to be closed.”
 
 In the meanwhile, the BMC has been asked to make adequate arrangements for water supply in these areas which have been handed over to them and prepare the basic infrastructures at the earliest.
 
 On March 11, 2016, green panel had ordered for relocation of dairies from city limits within three months upon the submission of the state that it is in the process of formulating a policy for relocation of all dairies.
 
 The state government had said that 46.47 acre of land had been identified at Malikheda for relocation of dairies, but due to grievance expressed by the dairy owners the proposal was changed.
 
 Seven new areas other than Malikheda have been identified. They include village   road, Arvalia and Kalapani villages at Kolar road; village Deedi at Hoshangabad road; Tunda, Mugaliakot and Fatehpur Dobra villages for relocation.
 
 Later, a show cause notice to chief secretary, for non-compliance of its orders was served by the bench.
 
 State has been asked to expedite the completion of the process of relocation of dairies in the larger interest of the public and in the interest of dairy owners in particular.
 
 The state respondents told the bench that existing dairy farms are regularly inspected by Madhya Pradesh Pollution Control Board.
 
