BHOPAL: As Vyapam continues with its image makeover exercise after being tainted by the  , shocker came for   – the young IAS officer heading the board- when a woman approached him with a deal to get her son ‘clear’ the exams of labour inspector.

  As the officer refused to entertain her offer, she went to an extent of tracing his parents address in faraway Shivupri district and asked them to lobby for her. Bewildered Bhaskar has now issued a circular warning that candidates or parents making any illegitimate approach to Vyapam headquarters may face cancellation of their exam or an FIR.
 
 Narrating the incident, director Lakshakar said, “For last couple of day I was getting call from a woman who kept on pressing me to meet one-on-one. I thought she had some queries so I had asked her to meet me in office.” 
 
 He added: “She came to meet me with her son. While interacting she tried to ask me as how her son can get into the labour inspector exam. I told her that only clearing the entrance test was the way to get job.” 
 
 Labour inspector exam was organised in the first week of January. Exam was conducted to recruit in various departments of the state government. 
 
 Woman told Lakshakar, “Vyapam mein toh sab chalta hai pass karwaane ke liye. Aap bataye kaise hoga(In Vyapam candidates could be selected by unfair means. tell me what to do). After listening to such words I reacted and asked her to move out of my room with a warning that she should not approach next time like this.” 
 
 Lakshakar did not know that the shocker was yet to come. The woman went his parental house in Shivpuri. “She forced my parents to talk to me on the issue. My parents categorically refused to entertain her and informed me. She was warned that repetition of any such act would invite police action against her,” said Lakshakar. 
 
 After the incident, director Lakshakar issued a circular that if any employee approached by such people then he must inform it to the vigilance cell. “It has been decided that the candidature of such candidates would be cancelled. Police FIR could be also lodged again such candidates,” he said. 
 
 Sources said Vyapam is also planning to debar such candidates forever in the future from appearing in any exam conducted by the board. 
 
