CHENNAI: On nights that are party time for most people.   has decided to Thank God It’s Friday by throwing open her home and heart to anyone who is game for a homely meal, laughter and fun.

 “Anybody who wants a change from their daily routine and is up for a few giggles and a nice meal can drop into my home on a Friday evening,” says Jennifer, who plans to launch her ‘Friday Friends’ programme this week.
 
 It was a video she viewed on social media that inspired her. “It was about a woman who had fought her depression. She had just had a nasty divorce, was a single mom and depressed. Though she wanted to overcome it by volunteering, nobody took her up on it,” says Jennifer. “So, the woman, who was living on food stamps, realised that the only thing she could do was cook a great meal on a shoestring budget. 
 
 She mailed all her friends in the area and told her home was open on a particular day of the week and asked them to join her family for a meal. It helped her fight depression and also helped a lot of other people.”
 
 Jennifer was so moved by the idea that she thought of throwing open her own doors to people. “I am not a counsellor, but I can be there if someone wants a listening ear, a few giggles and a nice meal,” says Jennifer, who lives on  .
 
 So whether you need to talk about your break up, are an elderly parent away from your children or just a friend who lost touch,   and her family husband  , her furkids (dogs) and little humanoid (her three-year-old daughter) is there for you.
 
 “I know elderly people whose children are overseas who would probably enjoy the company of a young child and family. We can probably be their family for a meal,” says Jennifer. 
 
 All you need to do is give her a ring before Thursday so she can grab groceries. “And don’t expect anything fancy. I will serve anything that I cook for my own family,” she says. Being an animal lover, it will be all vegetarian, though she can customise the meal to be completely vegan.
 
 The few conditions she does have are simple she can only host a maximum of four people at a time, and her doggies run free. “They are part of our family and very friendly, though they are a little attention-seeking and you may find yourself having to pet them,” she laughs.
 
 Though she is planning to kick-start the initiative by reaching out to people she knows, she is not just looking to reconnect with friends. “Anyone is welcome, even if you want to vent about your awful boss,” she says, adding that the conversations will obviously be between just the ‘Friday Friends’!
 
 Though she doesn’t know how the initiative will work, she hopes it helps people including herself. “My husband was very happy with the idea though a little skeptical as to how people will take it. But it will be a break from routine even for us to meet somebody new, somebody nice, every Friday,” says Jennifer.
 
 For a Friday with the family, you can mail jenniferjacob@gmail.com.
 
