Pune: The supply of   is falling short than the demand in the city and the trend is unlikely to ease at least over the next eight quarters, according to separate researches by Jones Lang LaSalle (JLL) and Knight Frank.

 Result: Business houses might consider other cities to set up shop; the average deal size is becoming smaller; rents are getting costlier and offices might look to hire under-performing spaces in malls and other   zones to stitch together some solution in the interim.
 
 According to Knight Frank, the vacancy level now stands at 8.2% — a historic low for the   office market.
 
 JLL estimates the Pune office space vacancy to be further lower at 6% and this it said in a report, “is proving to be a serious challenge for companies seeking large spaces to establish or expand their operations in this thriving city”. 
 
 The supply crunch will ease only by 2019, according to JLL, because most of the upcoming large projects are in initial stages of construction.
 
 As a short-term measure, the market is moving towards using under- or non-performing commercial building in the retail or hospitality segment by converting them into office spaces, said the JLL report authored by Alok Jha, AVP-Research, JLL India.
 
 ToI had reported in November 2016 that e-commerce giant Amazon was likely to occupy prime commercial space in InOrbit mall on the Pune-Ahmednagar road. 
 
 “Two tenants have already signed agreements to lease space in InOrbit Mall, one of which is Amazon,” said a source in know of the developments.
 
 Both agencies stated that there was no major new supply lined up in 2017. JLL said only 20% of the new office space to be set up would be completed in 2017 and Knight Frank said “such a scenario could further push occupiers towards other office markets in the country where shortage is not severe”.
 
 The demand for office space has far outstripped the supply of it from 2012 onwards. Vacancy levels, Knight Frank said, was further lower in “highly preferred” locations like Kharadi, Vimannagar, Yerwada and Ahmednagar Road.
 
 “The city may see the emergence of new commercial district nodes such as Nanded City, Pirangut and the PCMC area. These areas have managed to attract prominent developers due to their strategic location, lower land costs, good connectivity to central areas and predominantly because of their residential catchments,” JLL said in its report.
 
 
