Chandigarh/New Delhi: A fresh controversy has erupted over the contentious farm   in Punjab.

 A month after Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh announced Rs 9,500-crore farm loan waiver in the Vidhan Sabha, the 75-year-old Congress strongman has approached Union finance minister Arun Jaitley, asking him to convince banks to provide a one-time settlement.
 
 Amarinder had, on June 19, announced a total waiver of all crop loans up to Rs 2 lakh for small and marginal farmers (up to 5 acres). He had also announced a flat Rs 2 lakh relief for all other marginal farmers, irrespective of their loan amount.
 
 Amarinder had announced that his government has reserved Rs 1,500 crore out of Rs 9,500 crore as the first instalment. However, neither the rest of the amount nor the terms and conditions of the loan waiver negotiations with the banks were made public.
 
 Amarinder has now asked Jaitley to convince the national and private banks to convert Rs 6,000 crore loans taken by the state’s farmers into term loan.
 
 "Such a settlement will benefit 4.5 lakh of the state’s beleaguered farmers," Amarinder told Jaitely, while asking him to give requisite directions to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).
 
 Of the total debt of small and marginal farmers waived by the state, Rs 3,600 crore relates to loan from cooperatives, and the remaining Rs 6,000 crore from banks.
 
 "These banks were giving unethical loans to the farmers, pushing them into a vicious cycle of debt," said the chief minister.
 
 Amarinder also discussed with the Union finance minister the issue of settlement of Rs 31,000 crore Cash Credit Limit-related debt to ease the cash-crunched state's financial burden. The chief minister requested Jaitley to set up a committee on the issue.
 
 The chief minister had pointed out that Rs 18,500 crore interest on the Rs 12,500 crore cash credit limit (CCL) legacy gap was exorbitant as it would mean that the state will end up paying Rs 270 crore every month for next 20 years at the cost of welfare schemes in the state.
 
 The chief minister also raised the issue of losses incurred by the state on procurement. He pointed out that of the Rs 40,000 crore procurement undertaken every year, the state was suffering a loss of Rs 5500 crore, including about Rs 3,500 crore on payment of instalments and interest on outstanding CCL debt.
 
 Captain also requested Jaitley to reconsider the state’s proposal for pre-payment of the high interest bearing NSSF loan of Rs 22,110 crore and market loans of Rs 33,938 crore to swap these with low interest bearing loans. Such a swap, he said, would help save interest burden of over Rs 3,363 crore for the cash-crunched state.
 
 
