They hail from a family of musicians and ever since their childhood, music has been their breath and soul. Young nadaswaram experts N R Kannan and N R Anand, better known as  , say that the musical atmosphere was so overpowering, they couldn’t but surrender themselves to it soon after school. Kannan, 30, and Anand, 25, are the recipients of many awards and gurus to numerous kids in South India. In conversation with the duo, who performed in Kochi recently. 

 Their grandfather Kunjappan Pillai was a nadaswaram artiste while dad K Ramachandran was a thavil exponent. “I don’t even remember at what age I started training under my grandfather -- may be around 6 or 7. I recall that it was with one of my elder sisters, and that we used to spend a considerable amount of time practising nadaswaram,” says Kannan. Before turning a professional, he also did a three-year course in the instrument at a Guruvayoor-based institute. 
 
 It’s the elder brother who served as the guru for Anand, who also began training and performing at a very early age! “Soon after a few years of training, we started performing together,” Anand recalls. He adds, “We felt that it would be the ideal way ahead as that can be a performance with a difference, and can offer the audience a variety experience in the discipline. I guess that has worked well for us.” The brothers have been performing together for more than 15 years. 
 
 While they are making a name for themselves from a young age, the artistes say Malayali parents don’t entertain the idea of letting their kids pursue disciplines like theirs. “For most parents now, the most important aspect is how lucrative the discipline of art is and this attitude also slowly reflects in their kids. If at all they enrol for courses, it’s with the final aim of getting a job,” Anand says. 
 
 The artistes mostly perform with Tamil instrumentalists as accompanying musicians and they have also drawn flak for it, on and off. “What to do, it’s because they know the pulse of nadaswaram and thavil much better than the artistes here. Performing with them is easier for these reasons. Moreover, the way nadaswaram is performed by Kerala and Tamil Nadu artistes are different and alternating between the two would be troublesome for us too,” explain the brothers, who have won many awards like Nadaswaram Ilam Chakravarthy, Shanmukha Sangeetha Shiromani, Sangeethaswara Kalai Mamani and more. 
 
 Alongside giving performances, their residence at Nenmara is also home for numerous nadaswaram trainees from across South India. Kannan says, “Most of them are youngsters aged around 15 or 16 and except a few, all are non-Malayalis. Here, it’s financial stability that people value, than the love for art. Being an artiste is not easy, unless you are willing to give it your all, especially in the current circumstances. Sadly, that’s not something we can expect to find here, much.” The duo is also trained in saxophone and thavil, but says that their heart belongs to nadaswaram
 
