LONDON: With 29 runs to go and 33 balls and five wickets in hand, history beckoned the Indian women’s cricket team. Already, comparisons were being drawn with the famous triumph of the men’s team in 1983 at the same historic ground of Lord’s. That win had not only changed Indian cricket but also catalysed a complete shift in the game’s balance of power.

 Surely a victory for India’s women would have a similiar transformative effect? Could a women's IPL be far behind?
 
 
 
 Unfortunately, England, and Anya Shrubsole in particular, had other ideas. Shrubsole ran through the Indian line-up, finishing with the best ever figures in a Women’s World Cup final — 6 for 46 — and the player of the match award, as the inexperienced lower order imploded. Indian supporters were left heartbroken, musing forlornly on what might have been.
 
 Speaking at the awards ceremony, skipper   said she was proud of the team. Her pride is certainly justified. A generation of Indian fans has suddenly become aware of women’s cricket. The team may not have won the title, but they have won a million hearts, and that could make a huge difference to the future of the sport.
 
 The final had begun in overcast conditions but that did not dampen the spirit of the Indian fans, draped in the tricolour, who danced and sang right from the outset.
 
 Their optimism was driven by a mixture of pride in Indian women and hope that this would not just inspire a generation of female Indian cricket players, but also elevate the position of women in India.
 
 
 
 Mahesh Patel, 37, a Gujarati builder from Harrow, who moved to the UK 20 years ago from Kenya, was having a drink in the Lord's Food Village.
 
 “It’s the second time India has come to a final so if they win it will be another country breaking the form and women’s cricket will get promoted more in India,” he said beaming with optimism.
 
 His friend Amit Patel, 35, an estate agent from Harrow, said: “There are no equal opportunities in India. If they win, it will help all women In India and encourage women to play sport.”
 
 Then a crowd of British Indians from the Bharat Army burst into singing and dancing of Ganpati Bappa Morya to the beats of dhol drum dancing with flags draped around them. 
 
  
  
 
 Riya Bhambra, 14, from Hayes, whose family is of Punjabi origin, was one of them. Despite being born in the UK, she said she supported India. “Cricket is our national sport in India. It’s where our parents are from. it’s our roots.”
 
 Her father Danny Bhambra, 41, added “ I don’t think women’s cricket has ever had a following like this before. It has always been dominated by men. If India wins, more investment will come in women’s cricket. I wanted to show my daughter that women can make it in a men’s sport.”
 
 With Indian flags painted on her hands, a British Gujarati Keeya Patel, aged 8, who lives in Surrey, said: “At school we just played rounders I always wanted to play cricket at but it was all boys so I have never played it.”
 
 Her father Hiren Patel, 40, a business development manager, said “The fact the women’s team have played so well shows they are better than men."
 
 For the first time in its history the Bharat Army had been allowed to bring their dhols into Lord’s.
 
 About 200 members were dancing, eating and singing to dhol beats inbetween overs in their own zone. “This match is very significant because it puts Indian women’s cricket on the map and shows they can represent India in cricket,” explained Raj Patl 50, who had come down from Leicester. Then bhangra beats started and they all stood up for a quick dance. “We like bringing the dhol because it creates a carnival atmosphere. I think Lord’s was a bit stuffy before. The whole point is it’s a day out,” he said. clutching some cymbals and wearing a Bharat Army shirt. 
 
 Then England won. “I feel gutted,” said Madhu Jain, a London-based solicitor, wearing an Indian flag designed dress. “That is two finals where we have beaten the champions and then lost. We lost to Pakistan and then to England. We were the underdogs so we deserved to win. We got so close.”
 
 “I am still the biggest fan of Indian women’s cricket. They have created millions of fans today,” said Rahul Vyas, 39, who was born in Madhya Pradesh and lives in London.
 
