VARANASI: Bharatiya Janata Party leaders and workers started promotion of ' ' (cleanliness) with the beginning of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday celebrations from Saturday. The PM's birthday is on Sunday.

 BJP activists covered 129 primary schools of the government and municipal corporation to distribute notebooks, pencils, sharpeners, erasers, toffees, sweets and fruits.The only question tossed before the students there was ' ?' The reply was 'Swachhta', which they gave themselves.
 
 The programme was held on Saturday as schools will be closed on Sunday. As per the programme, banners with photographs of Modi and local leaders along with the cleanliness message were already placed alongside blackboards before the children reached classrooms. BJP leaders arrived once school started.
 
 When minister of state for law and justice and youth affairs Neelkanth Tiwari entered a classroom of a Kabirchaura primary school, the English class was in progress. After giving tips on learning English words, Tiwari explained the meaning and importance of cleanliness to children mentioning how Modi loves to see the people living clean and healthy. President of BJP's Kashi pranth unit and MLC Laxman Acharya said, “The only motive behind the selection of these primary schools was to spread the PM's message among children. He wants to see the people learn habits of cleanliness and health from childhood. If children are inspired to live clean they would keep their houses, locality, village and cities clean.“ Acharya, who held celebration at Bhiti and Sadar primary schools of Ramnagar and one at  , said the schools covered on Saturday also witnessed special cleanliness drive before the distribution of stationery and sweets.
 
 Meanwhile, birthday celebration also served the purpose of personal publicity for some. When BJP city chief Pradeep Agrahari entered a classroom of the primary school at  , dozens of his supporters followed him. It led to chaos for a few minutes as all these supporters started distributing stationery and toffees simultaneously.
 
