How did a brilliant batsman and a school topper turn into one of the most feared goondas of Vijayawada? That’s the question debutante director   has lived with for the past four years as he pieced together the life of   alias  , who met a gory end at the hands of his enemies in 2009. The journalist-turned-filmmaker’s search for answers has culminated in the Tanish-starrer Rangu, which turns the spotlight on how the   Police abetted Pawan Kumar’s deadly transformation. 

 “Pawan was a talented left-handed batsman, which is how he got the moniker, Lara (after West Indies great  ). During his intermediate studies, Lara got into a fight with a person over a girl, which escalated into group rivalry. Things got worse and one man from the rival group was killed accidentally in a scuffle that ensued. When Lara went to surrender to the cops, he was so terrified of stepping into the police station that he apparently spent an hour-and-a-half outside to gather the courage to face the cops. The same boy later became so emboldened that he gave the cops a warning in another incident,” explains Karthik, contending that it was the three months that Lara spent in jail which turned him into a monster. 
 
 “Lara spent three months in jail where he lost his fear of the system and learnt that anything could be manipulated. The police started using him as a bulwark against other dangerous gangs in the city. One thing led to another before Lara started hating the police and turned on them,” elaborates Karthik, adding, “A young man is highly susceptible between age 18 and 25. When he gets into any trouble during this period, the onus is on the police department to see that he does not tread such a path again. Unfortunately, in the case of Lara, the system failed. Parents who give us birth, teachers who impart knowledge and the police who maintain security in society are three vital pillars in an individual’s life. When one of these three components fail in its responsibilities, it does not take long for a man to turn into an animal. The lives of many promising young men like Lara end up getting wasted in the bargain.”
 
 Talking about the research that went into the movie, Karthik says, “I studied the life of Lara for one year thoroughly and spent another three years working on the script before we began shooting. I met all the key players involved in the life of Lara. In fact, 15 people who knew Lara personally are playing themselves in the film” Paruchuri brothers have penned the dialogues for the movie, which is currently under production.
 
