HYDERABAD: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI)   said that people could continue to deposit banned Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes in banks and RBI branches till March 31 if they could prove that they were not in the country between November 10 and December 31.

 While the rule applies to only people who were out of the country, many elderly residents and those with ailments have said that they should be given time to deposit money as well. Residents who approached the   in the city alleged that in spite of them stating their problems, they were being turned away .
 
  (60) a retired employee of National Institute of Nutrition, went with   worth Rs 5,000 to the RBI branch on Thursday .He said he was flatly refused and told that old notes could be deposited only in Chennai, Kolkata, Bangalore, Mumbai and Nagpur branches.
 
 “How can old people run to banks in time to deposit money? I kept that money for payment for a court case.But they refused to listen to my pleas,“ Sriramulu, a resident of Uppal, said. Another resident Seshagiri Rao said, “They frequently change rules and how many can we remember? They must consider taking deposits till March end. I had to return with scrapped notes worth Rs 10,000 last week.“
 
 RBI officials said they cannot amend rules. “Even at the Chennai, Kolkata, Bangalore, Chennai and Nagpur branches, there is a limit up to only Rs 25,000 of old notes for deposits. People have to read the fresh rules carefully,“ advised an official.
 
 The   (BEFI) has shot off a letter to RBI headquarters and also to the Union finance ministry on this issue. “Irresponsible and whimsical decisions of the government have put a large number of people, who had, for one reason or the other left the country immediately after November 9, 2016 andor arrived only a day or two before December 30, 2016 to unforeseen perplexity (sic),“ the letter read. “We demand the Union government and RBI rescind the ordinance,“ Venkata Ramaiah, general secretary of AP , Telangana units, said.
 
