AHMEDABAD:   (SAC), at Isro, Ahmedabad has tied up with educational institutes and universities to test its new navigation system, IRNSS (Indian Regional Navigation Satellite System). To test the independent regional   across different geographical locations, SAC has signed memorandums of understanding with 37 educational institutes.

 “The IRNSS receiver is supposed to be tested across the country. It is not possible to deploy scientists at all geographical locations, and therefore, we’ve decided to collaborate with several universities and educational institutes,” said Tapan Misra, director, SAC-Isro.
 
 Misra was speaking at the sidelines of an exhibition inaugurated at Space Exhibition Centre near the Isro campus for National Technology Day on Wednesday.
 
 “The receiver will be installed at several campuses and students will collect data and provide it to SAC,” Misra said.
 
 “SAC has signed   with institutes such as LD College of Engineering, DA-IICT, Nirma University and   – Surat, among others which are based in Gujarat. Students can use the data to carry out research,” Misra added.
 
 The receivers at these institutes will provide time and position related data in real time. The initiative is aimed at capacity building and thereby facilitating research studies among students.
 
 IRNSS is designed to provide accurate position information service to users in India as well as neighbouring region. The satellite network’s primary service area extends up to 1,500km from India’s border.
 
 
 
 
 SAC will now launch GSAT-19, a communication satellite, after the successful launch of GSAT-9, in June. This will be the next big launch for SAC, especially because of the GSLV-MK-III launcher, a satellite launch vehicle of ISRO which is capable of launching four-tonne class of satellites to Geosynchronous Transfer Orbit (GTO). For the first time, this will be a full time development launch. The high throughput satellite will have a 25-tonne cryogenic engine and eight beams.
 
 GSAT-19 satellite will employ advanced spacecraft technologies including Bus subsystem, indigenous Li-ion battery and indigenous Bus bars for power distributions
 
