KOLKATA: The city woke up to a  , as the   plunged to 11.2 degrees Celsius, 0.7 degrees less than that on Saturday. At 22.1 degrees Celsius, the day's temperature, too, dropped four degrees below the normal mark, making it the coldest day of the season so far and the fourth coldest January day in the past 10 years.

 In fact, Kolkata recorded the second lowest day temperature on Sunday, slightly higher than that at Berhampore, where it was 21.6 degrees. The cold spell gripped the districts more, with Cooch Behar recording a minimum temperature of 5.2 and Sriniketan 6.5 degrees Celsius.
 
 The north-westerly winds have been blowing in winds have been blowing in the chill from the snow-capped Himalayan region for the past few days, dragging the mercury down. The Met office, however, predicted that the intensity of the wind system would slow down, as a result of which the temperature was unlikely to dip further, at least for now. “The mercury is not likely to drop any further, for now. In fact we expect it to start rising by Monday, though the upward movement will be marginal, at least in the first two days,“ said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, deputy director-general of meteorology at Regional Meteorological Centre, Kolkata.
 
 According to the Met office a western disturbance over Kashmir was posing a threat to the uninterrupted flow of chilly wind. Putting further brake on the northwesterly winds will be another western disturbance developing over the western Himalayas, likely to form by January 17. “When a western disturbance develops, it affects the north-westerly winds. This system induces cyclonic circulation over regions in the north and northwest. As a result, there is moisture infusion from the  , increasing the temperature,“ Bandyopadhyay said.
 
 Kolkatans seemed more than happy with the chill spell in their otherwise sweltering city. As it coincided with a weekend, popular hangout spots, such as the Alipore zoo and Eco Park in New Town, saw a surge in footfalls. Many also headed outside the city for day-long outings. “Winter is brief in Kolkata. Why not make the most of it? My son and his cousins had a joyuous day, playing in the sun,“ said Sudarshan Bhowmick, an entrepreneur who spent the day at Eco Park with his family. The Mukherjees from Bangur Avenue had planned out a picnic for Sunday long ago. They were overjoyed that the “beautiful weather added to the zing“. “It was even colder on the outskirts of the city and it was fun. I hope the cold spell stays for a few more days,“ said Chandan Mukherjee, a bank employee.
 
