BENGALURU: There was utter confusion on many school campuses in the city on Tuesday, following the education department’s directive that schools must be shut due to the minister’s death.

 In many schools, parents rushed to pick up their children. For those children who travel by school buses, there was further confusion. School managements were clueless, too, since the holiday notice came only one or two hours before school closed for the day. 
 
 Bharathi Suresh, a parent whose child studies in a north Bengaluru school said, "Our parents’ WhatsApp group began to buzz around 1pm, so we started calling up the school to ask them about it. For about half an hour, the school was also confused as they hadn't received word. But later on, they sent us a text message that the school would close at 4pm, the regular time.”
 
 MA Khan, principal, KK English High School, Varthur, said, “We got to know from some parents that the government had declared a holiday for schools today (Tuesday) but we hadn’t received any information. We continued classes till 4pm as usual.” 
 
 However, for all its 2,500-odd schools, the   in the state sent word to discontinue classes for the day at 1pm. D  , general secretary of the association said, “We had asked the teachers to keep students who depend on their own transport, till they were picked up. But classes were suspended at 1pm when we got the order.” 
 
 Shivanna, a bus driver with a school on  , said, “Our school gives over at 3pm and we got to know about the holiday at 1pm, so the school decided to let the children remain on campus for two hours.” 
 
 
 
 
 The sudden death of Karnataka sugar and cooperation minister H S   was, indeed, very unfortunate. While we regret his sudden demise and understand the grief that it has caused  , his close friend and long-time political associate, the decision by the chief minister to declare a state holiday is without precedent. It caused enormous hardship to people, especially parents, as children who were already in school had to be midway picked up and brought home. Banks, too, downed shutters, inconveniencing people who had lined up to withdraw money at the beginning of the month to meet their household expenditure. There are many ways to honour the dead. Declaring holidays is not the best one. 
 
