CHANDIGARH: While Congress and   (AAP) teams plan to keep an eye on the entire state from their ‘war-rooms’ in Mohali, a few candidates are depending on the mobile app-based system of tracking voting trends at the booth level.

 Based on the much-hyped “Get out the vote“ campaign featuring Barack Obama in US, some political parties and individual candidates will be using mobile applications and software to keep track of the voting trends and exhort the people to exercise their franchise if voting doesn't pick up by afternoon.
 
 The mobile app-based system has colour coding red for a favourable vote, blue for other votes and black for total votes at the booth.
 
 The voter data is sourced from the online platforms of the   (EC). Three candidates from Gurdaspur and Bathinda districts will be using the system. AAP Supreme Arvind Kejriwal is likely to follow voting trends in the state from the party control room in Sector 16, said a party leader.
 
 “The data of voters in a booth has been fed into the software that will be available in control rooms and on the mobile apps of party workers at booth level. The voters are categorized into those supporting the candidate and others. When an assumed supporter casts vote, his name will be clicked on the app. If by the afternoon favorable votes are less, voters will be exhorted to get out and vote,“ said Capt Navjeet Sandhu, campaign manager, who is using this system for three candidates.
 
 An AAP leader, said updates will be received using various platforms to keep livewire contact with the party volunteers on the ground. “This will help in coordinating with various teams and also check violations,“ The team of Congress party strategist Prashant Kishor, which has its control room in Mohali, will also be using a software to track voter trends at different polling stations across the state.
 
 Candidates who could not afford such technology will be relying mostly on WhatsApp groups to keep in touch with the field staff in various constituencies.
 
 
 
 
 The Election Commission has also tied up with Facebook to remind first-time voters, to vote on February 4. The reminder links to the Election Commission's website where people can find details on their polling booth and other polling day information, said Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) V K Singh. People also have the option to share with their friends that they've voted by clicking on the “Share You Voted“ button. By clicking the button people can highlight their status as a voter to their Facebook friends, without specifying who they voted for.
 
