Coimbatore: It took forest and police personnel seven hours to rescue a six-year-old female elephant that had fallen into a 30ft deep dry well in Veppalampatti in Krishnagiri district. The rescue operation which had begun at 9.45am ended at 4.30pm.

 Early Thursday morning, villagers of Veppalampatti heard the anguished cries of a herd of wild elephants. Following the sounds, they saw the herd surrounding a bore well on a piece of land owned by Roja, wife of a local farmer. By the time the sun came up, the herd had disappeared into the Durgam Reserved Forest, although villagers could still hear them trumpeting.
 
 Seeing the area cleared, the villagers peaked into the well and found a lone elephant. “They informed the forest department at around 8am, after which we immediately dispatched rangers to the spot,” said one ranger. By 9am they figured that the well was too deep to break down the walls.
 
 After careful assessment of the situation, the officials decided to dig another deep hole next to the bore well and create a tunnel between the two pits, allowing the elephant to walk out through the tunnel.
 
  “Two earth movers were brought in to get the job done but progress was slow. By afternoon, a giant earth mover was brought in to speed up the task,” said a press statement from the animal husbandry department.
 
 The fallen elephant, which had been crying out for help, finally lay down with exhaustion. The forest department immediately dropped sticks of sugar cane into the pit. They also dropped down buckets of water mixed with jaggery which the animal drank. Once the elephant seemed to have regained some of its energy, the officials brought in thousands of litres of water in two tractors, which they doused the elephant with to keep it hydrated and cool.
 
 At 4.30pm, when the pit and tunnel were completed, the animal crawled out through the tunnel. The minute the elephant came out, it panicked and ran for its life across the Veppalampatti railway track and into the Durgam Forest. Animal husbandry minister, Balakrishna Reddy also arrived at the spot in the afternoon to oversee operations.
 
 Meanwhile, Roja, the owner of the bore well, was upset that her bore well was damaged. However, the forest and animal husbandry department assured her that through government schemes, she would be able to install drip-irrigation system free of cost.
 
 
