KOLKATA: With India adopting the vision of ‘Make in India’ and  , the need for   law is taking up a fast-paced path. The more start-ups and new ventures are launched pertaining to new or innovative technologies, the scope of requirement for Patents will improve and that of trademark will also improve with the launch of such companies.

 This would require professionals with knowledge in both domains – technology and intellectual property law. Among the many law schools in India, only a handful have evolved as centres of excellence in intellectual property law. Also the technology expertise is required to enter this profession. This specialized profession is being effectively catered by  . The   (RGSOIPL) runs Bachelor programme in IP law offers admission to 1 st class bachelor’s degree in engineering/technology/medicine or first class master’s degree in science/ pharmacy or first class MBA along with any of above.
 
 The School also has a two-year Master's degree program (LL.M.) The LL.M. programme will offer a wide range of specializations including Intellectual Property, Corporate Laws, Taxation, Criminal Laws, International Law, Constitutional Law and Competition Law. Besides, it offers a vibrant doctoral degree program (Ph.D).
 
 "Today IP is the fastest growing legal profession and there is a lakh of people who could understand science and engineering, IP Law has a tremendous demand. The engineers from IIT can complete their MBA or Law from these schools and become better leaders,” said Vinod Gupta, the founding donor of the School. The RGSOIPL has a long-standing professional collaboration with the Law School of George Washington University, Washington DC, for exchange of students and faculty. The School is ranked today as the second most preferred destination of law education in India with its legal research ranked as the best-in- class in India.
 
 Kushal Vibhute, dean of the RGSOIPL emphasizes the need to produce a new breed of “legal technocrats” in the country, with high acumen and critical thinking capability, who would be equipped with the knowledge and skills to handle sophisticated legal matters in intellectual property disputes hinged upon technical issues or complex commercial transactions.
 
 This is especially important since IP issues have gained centre-stage following India’s compliance with the TRIPS agreement and the country’s increased transnational business dealings. IPR litigation and prosecution have also increased manifold. “The RGSOIPL has played a pivotal role in building awareness around these issues since its inception,” he points out.
 
 "Most law schools in the country open up their   to students who have completed their studies at the 10+2 level; in most programmes again, intellectual property law is at best left to a few course electives. At IIT Kharagpur, we strongly believe that IPR-related legalities and their nuances are best grasped by students with a certain level of maturity and with a technical or science background. So both in terms of the credentials of our students and the depth of our specialization, we are unparalleled. Besides, the academic ambience created by our state-of- the-art infrastructure, small class groups and frequent interactions between students and expert faculty, both in and outside classrooms, provide a unique experience,” said Vibhute.
 
 The Dean’s assertions above are borne out by the fact that while most law graduates have to appear for a special examination in order to be able to work as IP agents, a much-sought- after career in the field, graduates from the RGSOIPL are known to have acquired such positions directly after finishing their programme here. Alumni from the School are well-placed in reputed organizations such as Bosch, Cognizant, Wipro, Siemens, Reliance, TCS, DartsIP and in top law firms such as Amarchand & Mangaldas, Luthra & Luthra among others, while some are practicing lawyers in High Courts.
 
