Madurai: The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), rolled out a decade ago, has impacted households and individuals in a positive as well as negative way, but the adverse impacts of the scheme could impact the nation’s food security, according to an authoritative study.

 What may set the alarm bells ringing is the projected decline in acreage under rice cultivation in states like Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh by three to eight per cent in the next five years. This could be a threat to the nation’s food security, according to the experts, Hari K Nagarajan, professor RBI chair in Rural Economics, IRMA, G Pazhanithurai, Rajiv Gandhi Chair for Panchayati Raj Studies, Gandhigram Rural Institute and Anirudh Tagat, senior researcher, Monk Prayogshala, Mumbai, who conducted the study.
 
 The scheme is implemented in all the districts in states and union territories. Official statistics reveal that MGNREGS has a cumulative generation of 2235.93 crore person days and a total expenditure of Rs 3,70,667 crore. As on date 67,33,214 workers are expected to be working in 4,42,385 sites across the country.
 
 The study took into account 48,000 households and 100,000 individuals belonging to 104 villages in the states of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan for their study. They found that the adverse impacts of the scheme would include decrease in agriculture and decline in crop incomes by 15 per cent in these states. Already, there is a decline in the availability of skilled farm labour.
 
 The data showed that the workers of this scheme were likely to opt for skilled work, which would have a significant adverse implication on the employment generation in rural India. The probability of an average farmer in Tamil Nadu finding skilled labour to work in paddy fields was as high as 85 per cent, as skill levels had declined in places where MGNREGS was implemented.
 
 Also, panchayats spend more time on implementing the MGNREGS with the result that the time spent on core functions like planning and service provision had declined by 75 per cent in the past six to eight years. Hence it was affecting the concept of panchayat raj.
 
 Women, however, have seen the positive impact of the scheme. Financial inclusion has significantly strengthened with women opening their own bank accounts without relying on their male counterparts, leading to relaxation in their budget constraints. Women have also spearheaded efforts to create common property resources like fruit orchards in villages using the income from the scheme. There are also seeking information about market price and acquiring gold and silver more.
 
 In Tamil Nadu where the government has provided free goats, the scheme has resulted in the animals becoming herds and all families owning them. Herd owners have withdrawn from agriculture and are ready to participate in agricultural activities only for a premium wage. Hence, given the current status, the farmers would have no option but to reduce the acreage or leave the land fallow, which could seriously affect food security and impact prices.
 
 Even as the MGNREGS is here to stay the state governments are adopting various strategies to keep the voters interested. They have suggested that the policy makers and bureaucrats ensure that failure in coordination is removed and that incentives and capacity building be given greater focus. The model agriculture produce market committee (APMC) act had to be implemented so that farmers could innovate. Panchayat raj institutions had to be strengthened, the states say.
 
 
