MUMBAI: In a rare instance, a sessions court last week week acquitted a woman on grounds of her being of  , despite the court accepting that she had kidnapped a three-month-old boy from his parents at   in 2015. 

 The court observed: "She was incapable of knowing the nature of her act [as being] either wrong or contrary to law. The offence of kidnapping an infant not appears to be done with any intention or knowledge." The child was eventually handed over to his biological parents after a  .
 
 On August 4, 2015 around 7.45 am, a man, Manoj Waghari, was standing in front of his house at Matunga when he saw the accused passing by with the baby. Looking at the appearance of the woman, he suspected that she was not the infant's mother. Waghari followed the woman and saw her drinking tea. He immediately went to a police chowky close by and informed them. 
 
 Immediately, two head constables accompanied Waghari to the tea stall and asked the accused about the baby. As she could not give satisfactory answers, they took her to Matunga police station. At the police station, a woman police officer once again enquired with the accused. She revealed that she had taken the child from his parents. 
 
 Meanwhile, the infant's mother lodged a complaint at Kurla railway police station. On August 6, 2015, the mother was asked to come to Matunga police station as they had found a baby. The mother showed the cops the baby's picture and her blood sample was taken. The child was kept at a shelter home. After DNA tests confirmed that the baby belonged to the mother, he was handed over to her. The accused was charged with kidnapping a child with an intention to use him for begging.
 
 Referring to the statements of the witnesses, including Waghri and the child's mother, the court said that if the evidence in totality is considered, the prosecution succeeded in proving that she had taken the baby.
 
 The court said that the witnesses had also revealed that the woman did not appear to be mentally stable when they found her with the baby. The court also pointed to a medical report based on the psychosocial assessment of the accused over August and September 2015. The report concluded that she was mentally unstable. 
 
 The court, while acquitting the accused, said that she could be released and was currently mentally fit.
 
