PANAJI: The betting syndicate in Goa has made the ruling   the favourite to retain power in Goa when state assembly election results are declared on Saturday. It believes the BJP will get anywhere between 19 and 21 seats and punters are encouraged to place their bets on any result for equal returns.

 “The formula is simple. You can either place a bet on BJP winning less than 19 seats or winning 21 seats or more. If you place your money on BJP winning less than 19 seats, the party should get 18 seats or below. The alternative bet (of BJP winning seats) is pegged at 21, which makes it the favourite. If the BJP gets 19 or 20 seats, the betting syndicate will laugh its way to the bank as it will win either way,” a source told TOI late on Thursday.
 
 The Congress, which is attempting to regain power after five years in the wilderness, is expected to win anywhere between 14 and 16 seats. It means, the syndicategenerally well informedbelieves it still has a chance of making money even if punters bet the Congress will win only 14 seats.
 
 “You can either bet that Congress will get less than 14 seats, or more than 16,” said the source.
 
 Interestingly, the betting syndicate stopped accepting bets on the   (AAP) after initially offering bets at 3/5. “I tried betting on the AAP pocketing less than three seats but they told me I could (now) only bet on the two major parties. They were accepting bets (on AAP) till Wednesday,” said another punter, who, probably influenced by the exit polls conducted by several national television channels, remained convinced that the fledgling party, at best, will win just two seats.
 
 Betting is also happening on a large scale between individuals in their respective constituencies, with   Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco among the most certain to retain his seat. His supporters are offering odds of 1/5 which means for every rupee, you will get five rupees if Lourenco loses.
 
 Francis Silveira, his supporters feel, will return to power in the St Andre constituency with his supporters encouraging rivals to place bets on any of the remaining candidates, and still taking home double of what they bet. 
 
 In Benaulim, supporters of   and Caetano Silvamany of them in the US are locked in a no-holds-barred battle. For every bettor willing to stick his neck out and back Alemao, there is an equal number throwing their weight, and cash, behind Silva.
 
 Till results are declared on Saturday, it’s going to be a nervous wait, not just for politicians but for punters, too.
 
 Betting is also happening on between individuals in their respective constituencies, with Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco among the most certain to retain his seat
 
 
