COIMBATORE: In a relief to the residents hit by the   in the city, the state government has sanctioned Rs5 crore to the civic body under the state disaster relief fund to fight drought. And the corporation is all set to set up 100 borewell connections in the city using this fund to fight the water scarcity in areas where the supply was currently hit.

 Commissionerate of municipal administration G Prakash confirmed that the state government had sanctioned Rs5 crore to the   under the state disaster relief fund to fight drought.
 
 “The civic body can use this fund to set up new borewells and also repair damaged ones, purchase water tankers, motors, pumps and repair pipes, besides spending it on technical work related to water supply,” Prakash said.
 
 City corporation commissioner K   said they had received the fund a few weeks ago and already started work on setting up borewells. “We have identified 100 locations that are facing water supply crisis. We will set up borewells in these locations. So far, nearly 50 borewells have been set up,” Vijayakarthikeyan said.
 
 Nearly 28 wards in the added areas had been identified for setting up the borewells. As per the corporation engineers, nearly 150 borewells in the city had gone dry due to the depleting groundwater levels.
 
 “Tamil Nadu Water supply and   is incharge of water supply schemes and it has plans to lay bigger pipelines and bores across the state. But since it will take a couple of years for the project to come up, we decided to sanction funds to the local bodies under the disaster relief fund to ensure that people get their water supply without any delay,” Prakash said.
 
 Currently, the civic body supplies 176MLD (million litres per day) of water to the residents, which roughly translates into 106 litres per person. “Since we get only 15-20MLD of water from Siruvani supply scheme due to monsoon failure, we are short of 100 MLD of water. So, the frequency of supply has been raised to 12-15 days,” Prakash said.
 
 Also, the city is dependent on nearly 25 water tankers daily. The water lorries make nearly 150 trips, supplying 15 lakh litres of water to the slums and other areas where pipe water supply had been stopped due to water shortage.
 
 The corporation had earlier announced the 24x7 water supply project, where residents will directly get water from pipe, to tide over the potable water crisis in the city. Referring to it, the commissionerate of municipal administration said the project would ensure 40% reduction in water usage as water metering technology will be introduced.
 
 Engineer in-charge for the project said, “The tenders have already been called for and on March 27 the next stage of tenders will be concluded. Hopefully, by the end of the year, the proposals will be finalized and the project will be started.”
 
