As we all are aware, board  s have always been considered as the milestone in one’s life. They shape your life, they say. Hence there is so much pressure on the students who are appearing for Secondary School Certificate (SSC) and Higher secondary School Certificate ( ) exams this year. However, the same pressure can push students into depression or even worse, make them suicidal. Comprehending the need to reassure students as well as their parents, Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has appointed one counsellor at each division to help distraught kids and their parents. 

 
 
 
 Board exams for HSC have already begun and it seems like parents have only one job in the world - to worry about their children. “Sometimes I wonder who is actually appearing for the exams, students or their parents,” says an amused  , a board appointed counsellor in  , adding, “Almost 60 per cent of the calls I receive on the board’s helpline number are from parents. And they all have the same complaint, ‘My son/daughter is not studying as much as they are supposed to’. They keep asking me ‘What can be done to make them study more?’” Kiran adds that counsellors like him receive 15-20 calls daily.
 
 Kiran has an advice for parents - don’t overdo it. “It is understandable that parents want their wards to do better in these exams. But in the end, when exams have already begun, you can’t really do much. It’s a year-long planning. Therefore, don’t hound your children to study harder. They need some recreational activities and sound sleep. And try to worry less, because even if the students are confident, worrisome parents put excessive pressure on them,” he adds.
 
 
 
 
  Many students experience anxiety attacks before exams. “I have nightmares like I have forgotten my hall ticket, or I have gone blank while writing,” shares Ankita Tipare, an HSC science student from KK Wagh College. Psychologists believe that taking up some recreational activities, for the time being, might help to get over the anxiety. “Go for a walk, listen to music or watch your favourite television programme. It will help your mind to calm down and you can concentrate better. Half an hour of recreational activity is always good during exams,” suggests Rajashree Jundare, a psychologist. 
 
 
