PATNA: The   Central Library, one of the oldest in the state, is likely to be developed as a model library and information centre soon. Necessary steps for library automation and digitization of rare manuscripts have already been initiated and efforts are on to convert it into a full-fledged electronic library.

 The renovation and air-conditioning of the 95-year-old library building has almost been completed with financial support from the state government and infrastructural support from the Bihar Educational Infrastructural Development Corporation. The UGC has also sanctioned Rs 2.64 crore for its automation. The library will soon have a computer lab equipped with internet facility so that it can be linked with the UGC’s Information and Library Network (INFLIBNET) programme. The visitors to the library will have easy access to research journals and publications from across the world.
 
 According to PU library in-charge S R Padmadeo, all the reputed educational institutions of the country are utilizing the applications of information technology techniques for the betterment of library services, including administration, cataloguing and classification, circulation and information retrieval. “Our library has a collection of more than three lakh books and 5,000 rare and valuable manuscripts. The state government has extended its help for installation of ‘e-granthalaya’ software in the library with a view to expediting its automation. Under the National Mission for Manuscripts, the digitization of manuscripts has also been initiated,” he said, adding PU employees would also be trained to conserve the manuscripts.
 
 The manuscript section of the library is considered to be a repository of rich cultural heritage. The manuscripts include 1,530 in Persian, 440 in Urdu, 316 in Arabic and 2,547 in Sanskrit, Maithili and Hindi and are written on leather, ‘Bhojpatra’, palm leaves, Nepali paper and on paper with gold and silver linings, Some based on Maithili Vyakaran (grammar), the Ramayana, the Mahabharata and the history of Bihar and Magadh belong to the 13th century.
 
 
