Indian energy and infrastructure companies have so far successfully hawked   worth $6 billion on the  . Another $1 billion worth of   are expected to be issued by Indian power companies this fiscal. Soon after power minister Piyush Goyal kicked off trading in NTPC’s second masala offering in a year last week, Nikhil Rathi, CEO of the exchange, spoke to TOI and explained the bourse’s popularity with Indian entities...

 What’s attracting Indian companies to the  ?
 
 London has the most ‘international’ financial market in the world. We are able to provide a secure platform to investors from all over the world to access some of the best investment opportunities. India is the fastest-growing economy in the G20, growing over 7% a year. There’s huge demand for  . 
 
 India is looking for global investors. London is proving to be the natural choice for it. We have seen that progress built year after year, more and more money being raised at lower prices to invest directly in Indian infrastructure — whether that’s power, roads, housing, renewable energy. Indian companies are finding a welcome home here.
 
 What’s your risk assessment of the Indian power sector?
 
 The Indian power sector is one of the fastest-growing power sectors in the world. We have heard from the minister (Piyush Goyal) the (government’s) huge ambitions for clean energy. That brings with it huge need for investors, (but also) for projects to be managed effectively. That’s one of the questions that investors have asked. I think there is a lot of confidence in the (government’s) leadership that these ambitious targets will be delivered and delivered effectively.
 
 Does the UK market have the appetite for so much of masala bonds from Indian companies?
 
 I think the best answer to that is the successful issuances of $500 million (masala bond) by NHAI and $500 million by   (one after the other). The market is responding each time new investors are coming. The NHAI issuance had 40% of the mandate from European investors — investors who have never invested in Indian credit before, investing for the first time, and I think more and more investors are sensing that the Indian growth story is exciting one and they are looking for a platform like the London Stock Exchange. With our global reach, we provide access to these opportunities.
 
 How will Brexit effect the UK bond market?
 
 We are global, our investors come not only from the UK but we have a very large number of investors from the US and also continental Europe, Middle East and Asia. We are seeing recurring issuance coming from Indian bond issues and also in the equity market. We had a very large US manager come to our market just a few weeks ago. A Middle Eastern oil company came to LSE this morning. So, we are global and that will continue to be the case.
 
 
