PANAJI: With the results of the assembly elections just hours away, party supporters have already begun to place orders for sweets and fireworks.

 “There have been standard orders of 300-350 kgs of peda and motichur laddus from two parties,” said proprietor of Magsons Mithai Mandir, Nitin Maganlal. He chose to remain silent when he was asked to name these parties.
 
 While the peda is priced at Rs 540/kg, the motichur laddu is at Rs 560/kg.
 
 Ravi Kiran, who manages Big Mishra Pedha, said, “BJP is our regular customer but, so far, we haven’t received any order from them. During the last   elections, they had ordered 100 kgs of sweets: milk peda and cashew barfi. We are hoping that there is an order from them this time as well, if they win.”
 
 Bursting of fireworks is almost a ritual whenever there is a declaration of elections results. Political parties don’t usually place orders for firecrackers in advance but sometimes individual candidates or their supporters do, said Anil Pankar of the Shanu Pankar store in Panaji.
 
 “We have received an order of two cases of firecrackers from a supporter of one of the Saligao candidates, Jayesh Salgaonkar,” he informed.
 
 One case of firecrackers comprises 20 bundles; each bundle is a set of 50 crackers. Such cases cost about Rs 6,000-Rs 7,000 each depending on the brand.
 
 Most of the firecrackers are sourced from Sivakasi.
 
 “Even five bundles at a time are enough for these supporters. When they bargain for rates, we offer them a 5% discount,” said the shop assistant from DK Naik stores.
 
 Orders for flowers, however, have not received that enthusiastic a response yet.
 
 “On any given day, we have marigold garlands ranging from Rs 30-100. On the day of results, party workers purchase these readymade garlands while well-wishers purchase bouquets,” said Mahadev Jaware of Sai Flowers, located in the Panaji municipal market.
 
 Custom-made garlands woven with roses, orchids and marigold are ordered for the winning candidate. The prices for these sometimes go up to Rs 5000, depending on the type and quantity of flowers used.
 
 “One of Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate’s supporters had requested for a heavy rose garland during the 2012 elections.” said florist Abu Salim. “Election results are highly unpredictable this time, so orders have not started flowing in yet. We will have all our readymade fresh flower garlands ready on display on the result day for party workers to pick up.”
 
 
