Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh’s   hopefuls were left stranded outside the crease in Monday’s auctions. Thanks to the dissolved Bhopal district cricket association and lack of ‘lobbying’ by MPCA, the trio of Puneet Datey, Chandrakant Sakure and Harpreet Singh Bhatiya never made it to the bidding chart of any IPL franchise.

 While Bhopal’s Puneet is an all-rounder, Chandrakant is a fast bowler from Indore and Harpreet a hard-hitting batsman from Sagar. It’s not that they are short of talent, their peers and seniors told TOI. The problem is there is no one to ‘network’ for them, unlike cricket associations of other states.
 
 Players are paying the cost for the infighting in Bhopal Divisional Cricket Association (BDCA). For three years, BDCA factions led by Arif Aqueel and Dhruv Narayan Singh are locked in a takeover tussle, leaving no one to bat for the players, said a senior cricketer. Puneet deserves to play IPL but there is no one to make the pitch for him, he added.
 
 This is the second year that MP players went unsold at IPL. There are three players from Madhya Pradesh in the league — Ishwar Pandey and Ankit Sharma for Pune Supergiants and Naman Ojha for Sunrisers Hyderabad. They were not part of the last two auctions as their teams retained them.
 
 The number would have doubled if MPCA had shown interest, say players. Asked about the alleged lack of support to the IPL hopefuls, MPCA CEO Rohit Pandit said, “I can’t comment on what happened behind the curtains. IPL is a commercial-cum-sporting activity. MPCA is always there to support them.”
 
 Senior cricketers don’t agree. “Their recent good performances are available on websites. Still, they went unsold. It means there was no say of MPCA and BDCA officials in the IPL circuit. It is unfortunate,” remarked former Team India player JP Yadav.
 
 Citing the example of Harpreet, Yadav said, “In an inter-zone match played in Delhi on Sunday, he scored a quick-fire 90, which was an amazing innings. It was telecast live but he was still not considered this year by any IPL team. What does this mean? It means these players need support to make it to the IPL circuit which is unfortunately missing in the state.”
 
 Chairman of BDCA (Arif faction) Aruneshwar Singhdeo also feels that there is a need to “assert ourselves” at the selection level. “These are talented players but they need support from MPCA and the state in the IPL circuit,” said Singhdeo.
 
 
