Bhopal: Cupid struck ‘Yeh Dil Mange More’ husbands seem to have to no end to their demand, and are even ready to take legal course to get separated from their better halves.

 These days Mahila Thana,  , is the most sought-after place for the women in distress, who have been cornered by their husbands for having failed to satisfy their husbands. At least 16 cases of divorce citing are being filed every month, on an average, by ‘dissatisfied’ men, who hold their wives responsible for their disappointment.
 
 “A total of 190 cases in which men have sought separation have been received in last one year, and all of them have the same reason,” said Mohib Ahmed, a woman counsellor at Mahila Thana, adding that 40% of these men are in the age group of 50 years.
 
 “I receive at least 10 cases every month in which a man expects his wife to satisfy his sexual desires, some of them even demand unnatural sex, for which is spurned by wives,” said Ahmed, adding, that in many cases the women try and avoid sexual ‘encounter’ citing fast during religious festival or menstrual cycle as the reasons. She said the men seldom understand that body of women tends to become weak after a certain age due to which they are unable to heed to their husbands desire. “Sexual relationship is important as it is a social need in a married couple but men should not take it to the extreme level,” said the counsellor.
 
 Renuka Mehta, another counsellor at Mahila Thana said “Number of such cases are increasing due to the lack of patience in the newly-married men. Every year, I receive around 40 cases in which women are not interested in making physical relationship with their husbands due to which husbands have applied for divorce.
 
 “While counselling in such cases, I initially advice the couple to go to doctors and find out some solution, but if they are not satisfied with it then the case is forwarded to special court for trial,” she added.
 
 Rita Tuli, third counsellor at Mahila Thana, said, “I receive around 30 such cases in a year where men complain dissatisfaction in sexual relationship and opt for divorce. It has become a major reason of dispute among married couple, nowadays. Many a time, women also complained that their husbands are unable to satisfy them, however it is rare, as in most of the time it is men who come here with such complaints.”
 
 She added “Around a month ago I received a case in which the couple was middle-aged as they got married late. On the first night of marriage, the woman refused to yield to demand for sex from her husband. Due to this, the man decided to obtain divorce from his wife however after they were counselled at Mahila police station, their dispute stands resolved now.”
 
 
