CHANDIGARH: Shyam Sundar Chaturvedi (58), who is the current custodian of 'Shree Bhakti Prakash Ramleela Mandal', a sixty-year old Ramleela Committee from Mathura, has been visiting Chandigarh for the last six years and calls its a very soul satisfying experience. The team travels all over India to perform the narrative of Ram and his exile from  , while housing three generations of the Chaturvedi clan, with fifteen to sixteen male members portraying characters on their own. 

 Chaturvedi said, “I love the crowd of Chandigarh. Even the grass here has a soul, I think.” And he added, “This Ramleela Committee was formed by my elder brother, Pt. Shankar Lal Chaturvedi at a very young age and ever since, it started expanding and we travelled all over India to perform this Ramleela.” 
 
 However, the point of interest remains, that a family of fifteen Chaturvedi men do not travel alone, but with a cavalcade of cooks, helpers and security men who are responsible to prepare their food the way they like, comprising of only fruit and vegetable edibles without the use of onion or garlic, thus making them a total of thirty six in number. “We have a strict diet and do not eat food prepared by anybody and everybody. Our deep connection is with Mathura, hence our cooks who have been working with our family since the longest time travel with us," added Chaturvedi.
 
 Besides fifteen family members, they are given training at a very young age. “My elder brother participated in this Ramleela, followed by his son   and now his son   is also displaying his talent. Both my sons also take part in the same manner,” said Chaturvedi. 
 
 When asked about subscribing to the new trend of females playing female characters in the narrative, Chaturvedi said, “I don't think brothers and sisters from the same family work for us,” added another family member. 
 
 Currently based in  , beside the Ramleela ground in Sector 27, the Chaturvedis construct their Ramleela stage on their own and adorn it accordingly. “We treat this Ramleela as 'Anushthan', hence it is very sacred for us. Thus we like to make the stage on our own. We not only enact the epic on the stage, but also perform it on the ground right before the audience," he said. 
 
 The Ramleela committe, has received accolades from former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and former President Pratibha Patil as well. 
 
