AURANGABAD: The ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) has declared   as an eco-sensitive zone to an extent of up to one kilometre from its boundary. 

 Environmentalists and nature lovers have welcomed the status given to the sanctuary, which is spread across   and   districts of  . 
 
 As many as 70 villages come under the ambit of eco-sensitive zone with a total 483.45 square kilometer region getting covered. 
 
 “While the draft notification declaring boundaries of eco-sensitive zone around Gautala wildlife sanctuary was on published on June 12, 2015, no objections were received from stakeholders in response,” a forest department official said.
 
 The developement has caused widespread cheer among environmentalists as the MoEF’s resolve is expected to help in protecting and conserving flora and fauna and other biodiversity features of the sanctuary. 
 
 A P Girhepunje, a senior official from forest department, who was closely associated with the official process of declaring eco-sensitive zone around Gautala- Autramghat Wildlife Sanctuary, said, “Demarcated zone would help in conserving the protected area.”
 
 “Gautala-Autramghat Wildlife Sanctuary is an important conservation unit in the state and declaring it as an eco-sensitive zone would help in nature conservation,” said Girhepunje, who served as the deputy conservator of forest (territorial), Aurangabad before being promoted to Nagpur forest division.
 
 Now, all eyes are on the state government now, as it is mandated to prepare a Zonal Master Plan within a period of two years from the date of publication of final notification in the Official Gazette in consultation with local people and adhering to the stipulations.
 
 Environment, Forest, Urban Development, Tourism, Municipal, Revenue, Agriculture, Maharashtra State Pollution Control Board, Irrigation and Public Works Department are among the departments that would be taken into consideration for charting out a zonal master plan.
 
 “The Zonal Master Plan acts like a road map for nature conservation as it defines restoration of denuded areas, conservation of existing water bodies, management of catchment areas, watershed management, groundwater management, soil and moisture conservation, needs of local community and such other aspects of the ecology and environment that need attention,” a forest department official said. 
 
 Welcoming the government’s resolve in the matter, environmentalist Kishor Pathak from Shrusti Samvardhan Sanstha said necessary rules and regulations must be followed in letter and spirit. “The concept of eco-sensitive zone assumes huge significance in protection of any natural reserve habitat. The Gautala- Autramghat Wildlife Sanctuary has been exposed to manmade threats for long now. This has caused some irreparable damage to the local biodiversity. The eco-sensitive zone can help in containing the further damage if observed religiously,” he said.
 
 Echoing similar views, another environmentalist Pankaj Shakkarwar said local self-governing bodies associated with the 70 villages concerned should be taken into confidence while executing the idea of eco-sensitive zone.
 
 “The local villagers have many apprehensions in their mind about the concept of eco-sensitive zone and therefore local self-governing bodies need to be sensitised about the entire concept. The locals should not think that eco-sensitive zone would hamper their development,” he said. 
 
