UDHAGAMANDALAM: With the fear of attaching the   looming large after the Supreme Court verdict in the disproportionate assets case, more than 500 workers of the estate are a worried lot now. More than 500 workers are employed in the estate, located some 17km away from   in the Nilgiris. 

 The workers are concerned over their future as the ownership of the estate may change to realize for the fine money of Rs 10 crore each imposed by the Supreme Court on AIADMK general secretary   and her relative J Elavarasi. Both Sasikala and Elavarasi have stakes in the estate along with former chief minister Jayalalithaa. 
 
 Till now, the workers are rendered facilities like free transportation, accommodation and hospital by the current employer. “We don’t know if the ownership is going to change or not. If changes, we are worried about our position,” a worker said. 
 
 Kanagavalli*, a worker in the Kodanadu estate said, “Amma had given us all the facilities here, including free housing and hospital. She made us permanent workers of this estate.” She said, “We used to be daily wage labourers before Amma became the owner of the estate. After she owned the estate, we became regular employees and even beneficiaries of EPF.”
 
 Another worker, Sekhar* said, “We also have ATM facility here. A hospital in the estate has been very helpful to us. Whenever Amma stayed in the estate, she would go around the estate and interact with us and enquire about our grievances.” He added, “Our grievances would be sorted out in no time.”
 
 “Yes, we are very much worried now. We are ignorant about the verdict of the court. But people say, the ownership might change,” said another worker Sudha*. 
 
 Around 100 quarters have been provided to the workers. Many come from outside also. “We have been given free transportation to come for work and go back,” said Saraswathi*, a worker. 
 
 The workers fondly remember the moment when they had the opportunity to take a group photo with Jayalalithaa. “The group photo in all our houses will speak for generations,” added another worker. 
 
 The estate, spreading over 1,200 acres, houses a white mansion which was Jayalalithaa’s retreat. “Whenever Amma was here, we would feel we were one family. Of course, we would miss her visits hereafter.” 
 
 The Kodanadu panchayat is considered to be one of the best performing panchayats in the Nilgiris. The panchayat has been declared 100% ‘open defecation –free’. Also the locals outside the estate claimed that they never faced the brunt of being a VIP’s neighbour. (*Name changed)
 
 
