CHENNAI: Police on Sunday arrested seven men who over three months hijacked at least six container   from Manali, Madhavaram and Red Hills and resold them after changing the number plates.

 Police seized six trucks, two bikes and a car and a court sent the arrested gang members - Nagaraj, 34, of Madhavaram, Kumaran, 36, Mannar, 40, and Riaz Ali, 43, of Tondiarpet, Senthil Kumar, 29, of Kodungaiyur, Ezhumalai, 26, of Agaram, and Veeraghavan, 54 of Tiruttani - to jail. Police are looking for Surabuddin and Rajesh, the prime suspects in the racket.
 
 After Kumar, a 45-year-old businessman from Manali, lodged a complaint, saying his truck parked on the 200 Feet Road in Madhavaram was hijacked, a special team headed by Madhavaram deputy commissioner Rajendran and inspector Shanmugasundaram began probing.
 
 The special team members checking CCTV camera footage from a fuel outlet, from where one of the trucks was hijacked, found that one of the suspects taking it away was Surabuddin, who was involved in similar offences in Thiruvottiyur and Ennore. Police on a tip, arrested the seven men from a hideout.
 
 Surabuddin, Rajesh and Senthil, police said, targeted container trucks parked in areas like Manali, Madhavaram and Thiruvottiyur. “They usually struck at night when drivers would stop for dinner or to attend nature’s call on a deserted stretch,” said an investigating officer.
 
 Most of the gang members were experts in opening and driving off without keys. “Some drivers left the keys in the truck, which came handy for the gang,” he said. 
 
 Many drivers had their vehicles hijacked but could not identify the suspects as the highways were dark, he added.
 
 After driving away the trucks, the gang members would changed the number plates and engine number and sell the vehicles for anything between Rs 2 lakh and Rs 3 lakh. The brokers would keep the registration papers ready to show the trucks were meant for resale. The brokers received commissions ranging from Rs 30,000 to Rs 50,000.
 
 The gang only sold the trucks to people across  , targeting businessman involved in transporting goods outside city. “We have got vital clues about the absconding suspects. We hope to nab them soon,” said an investigating officer.
 
 
