NEW DELHI: It was perhaps a death in which the victim should not even have been picked up by the police. But   had the misfortune of trying to play the peacemaker when he and his wife   ran into a street brawl at Nand Nagri on the way to a relative’s house in September 2015. After the man’s alleged death in police custody, a legal team led by   managed to convince Delhi high court to order a CBI probe into the incident. But more than a year later, the investigation meanders along, even as Chaudhari’s survivors find themselves in dire financial straits.

 Rabiya, who got a job with the civil defence wing of Delhi government after her husband’s death and is posted at the industrial training institute in Nand Nagri, has been struggling to make ends meet. She often has to leave her son with her sister to be able to spend a few extra hours to earn a decent living for herself and her three-year-old. “I was wholly dependent on my husband for money matters,” said Rabiya, frustrated at how the glacial pace of justice has destroyed her life.
 
 On September 7, 2015, the couple were going to see Rabiya’s sister in hospital when Chaudhari stopped to intervene in a street brawl. He was apprehended by the cops, perhaps because of his police history. Family members disclosed that Chaudhari had been arrested earlier for being involved in a fight and was out on bail to meet his new-born son at the time of the incident.
 
 Rabiya claimed that Chaudhari had tried to get a relative freed from the police van, upon which the cops had set upon him. “A video showed the policemen dragging my husband into the emergency response vehicle,” alleged Rabiya. “When I reached the police station later, I was told he had fallen sick and had been taken to hospital. I had been looking for him in all the hospitals in this part of the city for 16 hours when a policeman asked me to reach the mortuary at   to identify his body.”
 
 Delhi Police had formed a special investigation team to probe the death, but frustrated by the slow progress, the family had approached Delhi high court through senior advocate Gonsalves. The court ordered the transfer of the case to CBI in December. “We have been trying to get the case to come to a conclusion, but some confusion over representation between the central and state governments has delayed the proceedings,” rued Gonsalves.
 
 Meanwhile, police had also approached the   to revert the case to the original investigating team. The next hearing on this matter is scheduled for later this week.
 
 
