VELLORE: A 24-year-old   and two of his friends have been arrested for allegedly assaulting and abusing a  , her husband and several others at   in   district of  .

 Police said army man T Karthik, a resident of Eswaran Kovil Street in Walajapet town, was on leave for the last one month. Since he was about to leave for duty in a few days, Karthik’s friends demanded him that he buy liquor for them. Obliging, Karthik bought them liquors. They started to drink liquor sitting on a roadside on Sunday night. 
 
 The trio, who were in inebriated condition, stopped passersby in Eswararn Kovil Street and picked a quarrel with them. They allegedly abused and assaulted several passersby in the area.
 
 The residents of the area alerted the Walajapet police. Before the police reached the spot, the trio had assaulted Mani, 25, of the same area and misbehaved with his wife Ruba, who is pregnant.
 
 On inquiry, the police learnt that Karthik had stopped Mani and asked about his address and where he was going to. Mani retorted that Karthik had no rights to question him and also cautioned him of his unruly act. This resulted in a fisticuff.
 
 Karthik and his friends assaulted Mani. They attacked him with bricks, inflicting injuries on his left ears, shoulder and face. They allegedly pushed Ruba who came to her husband’s rescue and pulled her thupatta, police said. 
 
 Mani was treated as an outpatient in Government Hospital at Walajapet.
 
 The police, after obtaining a complaint from Mani, went in search of the army man and his friends. The police arrested the trio who were spotted consuming liquor in an open area in Eswaran Kovil Street.
 
 Karthik stated that he was not an army man. “We inquired with the residents of the area and also his family members. We confirmed that he is working in the army and had come on leave a month ago. We have summoned his parents to bring his identity card to send the copy of the FIR as per procedure,” said the police source.
 
 The Walajapet police registered a case under sections 294 (b) (uttering obscene words), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 506 (ii) (threatening with dire consequence) of the IPC read with section 4 of Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Women Harassment Act.
 
 
