NEW DELHI:   and teachers have reason to cheer. An association of three major international publishers on Thursday withdrew their copyright suit against a photocopy shop, thus ending a five-year legal tussle. 

 Oxford University Press,   and Taylor & Francis said they wouldn’t appeal against a December 9, 2016 verdict of   before the Supreme Court. In a joint statement, the publishers’ association also said they would be filing an application before HC to withdraw as plaintiffs. By the end of the day, the publishers had filed the application in court.
 
 A division bench led by Justice Pradeep Nandrajog had last year directed that the suit should be decided on whether photocopying of the entire books would be a permissible activity and if the inclusion of copyrighted work in the course pack for the students was justified .
 
 The bench had set aside a single-judge ruling in this regard, but didn’t stay the sale of tailor-made course packs by Rameshwari Photocopy Services to students. The single judge had earlier dismissed the publishers’ application seeking interim injunction against the shop, reasoning that there was no issue worth a trial there as “copyright is not a divine right”. 
 
 HC had, however, directed the shop to maintain a record of course packs photocopied by it and supplied to the students, and submit a statement of it every six months. 
 
 HC had held that the act of students getting books copied from DU’s library or its authorised photocopy shop enjoyed protection under Section 52 of the Copyright Act, which exempts education from copyright infringement. HC had also noted that DU’s action may have been guided by the limited numbers of each book available in its library, the limited number of days of an academic session, the large number of students requiring the books, and the fear of costly books being damaged on being subjected to repeated photocopying. 
 
 The court had also pointed out that if the facility of photocopying wasn’t available, students “instead of sitting in the comforts of their respective homes...would be spending long hours in the library and making notes thereof”.
 
 The modest shop in North Campus was sued for copyright infringement in 2012 for selling compilations of photocopied portions of different books prescribed by DU as suggested reading in its syllabus. But twice the publishers failed to get relief, first before the single judge and then in appeal, prompting them initially to consider moving apex court. 
 
