 may have found a way to nail   but it is yet to figure out how to use technology at its disposal to nail  . The police recently issued an   for a vehicle that had violated a stop line at  , but failed to identify that the two-wheeler was reported stolen in 2013. The entire issue came to light when the vehicle’s owner received the e-challan fining her Rs 100. Riya Patel, a resident of Arjun Greens in Ghatlodia, told Mirror, “When I recently received the e-challan, I assumed it would be for my father’s bike with registration number 6151.

 However, I was stunned when I saw the CCTV grab on the e-challan, dated December 27, 2016. It showed awhite-coloured two-wheeler with registration plate GJ1 PB 6151, which I had reported stolen in 2013.” The vehicle is registered in Riya’s mother Asha Patel’s name and was stolen in January 2013 from outside a bank on Drive-In Road. According to Riya, the CCTV grab on the challan shows a family of three including a young kid riding the Activa. The 22-yearold nursing student of i JG College also expressed surprise that the police, which has softwares like Eklavya at their disposal, couldn’t identify a stolen vehicle.
 
 She said, “When my Activa was stolen, I had gone to Vastrapur police station to file a complaint. Later that year, the police had announced they had Eklavya software which would be used to curb vehicle theft. I had taken heart then, assuming the cops would be able to locate my vehicle. All these years nothing happened and now I am receiving e-challan for a stolen vehicle. This shows total ineptitude on part of the cops.” Her father Jitendra Patel expressed surprise at the cops’ inability to detect atraffic offence but not a vehicle theft. “If the police can successfully use technology to catch offenders for even the most minor traffic violations, then how is it that they are unable to detect vehicle theft? They have the technology, as they have been announcing time and again. May be it is time the force gets trained to use this technology optimally.”
 
 Meanwhile, Riya went to Mithakhali traffic control room to alert the cops who asked her to go to police commissioner’s office because they did not have the means to verify her claim. She said, “They told me that they did not have the footage of the vehicle and couldn’t verify if the vehicle was indeed mine. So I went to the control room at the police commissionerate. There, the cops on duty heard me out and checked the footage from the date on the challan. It showed a family riding a white Activa with GJ1 PB 6151 registration plates. After I confirmed the vehicle was mine, they verified the same with the Vastrapur police.”
 
 For now, the police has asked Riya not to pay the traffic fine. Incidentally, while verifying Riya’s claims, the police found that there were four other e-challans for the same vehicle that were to be sent out. Meanwhile, Vastrapur Police Inspector BJ Sarvaiya claimed they have started fresh investigation to trace the stolen vehicle. He said, “The control room had called to enquire about the vehicle which was reported stolen and a complaint was filed in Vastrapur police station in 2013. There was indeed a complaint filed by Riya Patel. Now that the vehicle has resurfaced, we have a new lead and we will try our best to trace it. We will also be taking the help of the crime branch.”
 
 DCP (control) Balram Meena, who is also in-charge of Traffic, acknowledged that currently, the police department lacks an integrated mechanism that would allow detection of stolen vehicles when e-challan is generated. Meena told Mirror, “We are working on a system that will allow us to know if a vehicle is stolen whenever an e-challan for a particular vehicle is created. But it will take some time for this system to be up and running.”
 
 Admitting there has been a lapse on their part, JCP Sector-1Piyush Patel told Mirrorsaid, “We do have a database of stolen vehicles, which the police can to access to find out if a vehicle is stolen. If the girl has received a memo for a stolen vehicle, there seems to have been a mistake. We will ensure it doesn’t happen again. Finding the stolen vehicle will be our priority.”
 
 
 
 
 Eklavya software allows city police to maintain a computerised record of vehicles and their owners. This record can be accessed by policemen in the field to quickly identify stolen vehicles and those used in crimes. Information like registration and model number of the vehicle, the type of the vehicle, its engine and chassis number and also the owner’s name can all be accessed almost instantly using the program.
 
