NEW DELHI: Should persons facing trial in serious crimes be permitted to contest elections? Putting many politicians with criminal antecedents in serious doubt ahead of assembly polls in five states, the   said it would soon answer this question.

 Senior advocate Vikas Singh and advocate   informed a bench of Chief Justice   and Justices N V Ramana and D Y Chandrachud that a 3-judge bench of the   had referred this question for adjudication by a five-judge bench in March last year.
 
 Singh told the bench that answering the questions raised by PILs, including Public Interest Foundation, will go a long way in cleansing politics of criminal elements. The question has assumed significance in the wake of assembly elections in five states, he said.
 
 CJI Khehar, though, for a while conferred with Justices Ramana and Chandrachud and said: “We will constitute the bench for sure. The question is important and needs to be answered. Whether we will be able to answer it before the coming polls, we do not know. But people must know the answer.”
 
 Khehar warned of the flip side to it: “If we say all chargesheeted persons would be debarred from contesting elections, there would be a spurt in filing of false cases against possible candidates.” Vikas Singh clarified that the   in its 244th report had recommended that only those against whom charges have been framed in crimes punishable with more than five years’ imprisonment should be barred from fighting polls.
 
 The PILs have also sought disqualification of MPs and MLAs after a court of law frames charges against them in a criminal case where the offence involved is punishable with more than five years’ imprisonment. At present, under Representation of the People Act, an MP or MLA gets disqualified if he gets convicted in a criminal case and is sentenced to more than two years’ jail.
 
 A three-judge bench led by Justice   had in its March 8, 2016 judgment ordered extraction of disqualifications provided under Article 102 and the RP Act provisions and wondered whether the SC could add another disqualification by providing for a ‘framing of charge’ criteria as well.
 
 The reference question read: “Whether disqualification for membership can be laid down by the Court beyond Article 102(a) to 102(d) and the law made by Parliament under Article 102(e)?” While making the reference, the court had rejected the Centre’s argument that the SC decision in Manoj Narula case in 2014 required no further interference for electoral reforms.
 
 In the said case, the SC had ruled that filing of appeal against conviction and sentence of more than two years would not protect the membership of a House for an MP or MLA. The petitions had sought disqualification of persons as MP or MLAs on filing of charges against them in heinous offences.
 
 The court had sought the Law Commission’s view on these issues. The commission had said it would not be proper to order disqualification of a person on filing of charges.
 
 However, it said disqualification could be triggered once a court of law framed a serious charge against an MP or MLA. Consequently, framing of a serious charge by a trial court would debar a candidate from contesting polls. The commission had also recommended disqualification for filing false affidavit along with nomination paper.
 
