CHENNAI: The   byelection may be countermanded with the   ( ) submitting its report to the   on Saturday on the extensive raids conducted by the   investigation wing on health minister  , his relatives and partymen in Chennai, Pudukottai and Trichy districts.

 Special chief electoral officer   rushed to New Delhi after the CBDT submitted the report for urgent consultation with the poll panel officials.
 
 “Countermanding of an election in a constituency can be done only if there is more than one party involved in corrupt activities. But the latest happenings in Tamil Nadu show that the   may think twice before holding the byelection,” said a former chief electoral officer.
 
 “The search operations were completed on Saturday morning in more than 35 places in the state. Soon after this, we prepared an extensive report on the raids, the opposition we faced and the protests of the   workers outside the residence of Vijayabaskar and sent it to CBDT,” said a senior I-T official.
 
 The poll panel is awaiting the report of Tamil Nadu’s chief electoral officer on the alleged bribing of voters to determine if the atmosphere in RK Nagar constituency has been vitiated to such an extent that a free and fair poll may not be possible on April 12.
 
 “We will go by our CEO’s report detailing the extent of cash seizures and money trail detected during I-T raids... We expect the report to be in as soon as possible,” an EC official told TOI, hinting that observations in the report on the abuse of money power in the constituency will be studied to decide further course of action.
 
 The report included how Vijayabaskar pushed a   jawan before speaking to reporters. “There were many violations during the searches at the minister’s residence. 
 
 As per the I-T Act, no person can enter or leave the premises when the search is on. But he spoke to the media accusing us. We have included all these in the report,” said the official.
 
 The report highlighted the treatment meted out to an I-T official who headed the search team in Vijayabaskar’s residence. 
 
 “The official will be filing a criminal complaint against the minister and others who intimidated the woman IRS official,” he said.
 
 With the latest revelations of the detailed planning to distribute money in R K Nagar by AIADMK (Amma), there is speculation as to whether the EC will file complaints against the scores of ministers and MLAs who were tasked to garner votes for the party candidate T T V Dinakaran.
 
 “There may be more trouble for AIADMK ministers and MLAs whose names figure in the party list of office-bearers tasked to get votes in the byelection.
 
 As per EC rules, whatever the party has done or planned to do in R K Nagar is nothing but intimidating the voters which is against free and fair polls,” said the former chief electoral officer.
 
