Thane: The   has reportedly evaporated a notable volume of water probably equal to five days of supply for Thane city from the   district.

 Statistics from the district collectorate revealed that in March, the dams supplying water to Thane, including Bhatsa, Barve and Andra, collectively saw an increase in utilization as compared to last year. As high as 1,800 million litres of water was consumed in excess of what was witnessed last year during the same period. The drop in volume in the dams is mostly because of high temperature, which touched nearly 43 degrees. The collective volume of water in the dams that was lost last month is almost equal to five days of water requirement of Thane city that utilizes around 480 million litres daily. 
 
 Water levels in Bhatsa dam that is spread over 2,725 sq kms had 562 million cubic metres (mcm) in the first week of March, which dropped to 505 mcm by March-end. This means there has been a drop of nearly 1,400ml as compared to 2016 when the levels shrunk from 465mcm to 422mcm. There has been no drop in volume at Barve dam but Andra dam that also shares water with the Ulhas basin saw a drop in levels from 147mcm to 129mcm last month. 
 
 The drop is by around 400ml as compared to the levels in previous years. 
 
 Officials from the irrigation department didn’t rule out the possibility of fast evaporation saying usually the evaporation losses account for nearly 10 per cent of the total stock in the reservoir every month. In addition, there is not much curtailment of water this season as compared to last leading to be another reason for fast depletion of water from the dams. However, they clarified the reservoirs had enough water to last supply for the next few months.
 
 “We have been following an age-old method wherein the losses due to evaporation are usually considered to be 10 per cent of the actual volume in the dam,” said an official from the irrigation department. 
 
 Experts suggested introduction of more green foliage around the dams to reduce evaporation which can trap the hot air that can otherwise aid  .
 
