Jaipur: Rajasthan   has directed additional chief secretary of panchayati raj, commissioner, panchayati raj to be present in the court on August 21 if it fails to comply with its order to give appointment to lower divisional clerks (LDCs) selected in 2013.

 The single bench of Justice M N Bhandari issued the order on a contempt petition by Madanlal Jat and others.
 
 The litigation regarding the recruitment of 11,286 posts of LDCs in 2013 in the panchayati raj department was over the bonus marks to the experienced candidates. The government decision to award of 30 bonus marks towards experience was challenged in the court and the division bench at high court principal seat, Jodhpur found bonus marks to be excessive. It had thus a directed to keep bonus marks limited to 15 only.
 
 The state government challenged the decision of the high court in the Supreme Court through an SLP. The Supreme Court on November 29 last year decided the case in favour of the government decision to grant 30 bonus marks and disposed of the petition.
 
 R K Gautam, counsel for the petitioner said, even after the apex court’s decision the department has been delaying giving appointment to the selected candidates. The petitioners then approached the court and the court had issued notice. The department in an earlier affidavit had assured the court that those selected would be given appointment by July 15 but has not yet complied with.
 
 The court said it is a serious contempt by the department. Either the department complies with the order or the concerned officials be present in the court.
 
 RPSC inefficient, need reform: Court
 
 Rajasthan Public Service Commission (RPSC) has come under fire from the Rajasthan High Court for its irresponsible conduct of the competitive examinations and said it was badly in need of reform.
 
 The single bench of Justice MN Bhandari was hearing a petition on the recruitment of junior accountants. The petitioner approached the court following not in contention to the post after revising the merit list for the fifth time. The court observed that RPSC has become one of the most inefficient organizations and neds reforms. 
 
 The court had earlier also pulled up the RPSC for generating unwanted litigation due to the tardy conduct of competive examinations with the candidates approaching the courts with petitions with wrng questions and answerkeys.
 
 
