Lucknow: A minor tiff between two persons led to a brawl and death of another who had gone to witness a   in   on Wednesday evening, sending shockwaves in the area. Police said circumstantial evidence suggests the victim knew the assailant. Several persons have been detained in this connection. 

  Identified as Rahul Dwivedi (30) of Lar Road in Deoria, the man used to work as a salesman at a wine shop and lived at a house on rent with Suraj of Barabanki and another roommate Anand of Azamgarh. At 1.30pm, he borrowed Suraj’s bike and along with his friend Ajay reached Sarovodayanagar embankment where a baseball match was going on.
 
 Rahul was enjoying the match while also following a game of cards being played nearby. An eyewitness told police, somebody from the crowd watching the match attacked him and left. Seeing Rahul lying unconscious and bleeding, bystanders rushed Rahul to the KGMU Trauma Centre but doctor declared him brought dead. The trauma centre authorities informed police.
 
 Police said injury marks suggested Rahul was first hit with a baseball   and later stabbed with a  . However, the problem they faced was no one from among the spectators or players was ready to file a formal complaint or record a statement.
 
 ASP (trans-Gomti) Durgesh Kumar said the person who hit Rahul has been identified as the one who was raising dust that entered Rahul’s eyes, to which he objected strongly. Shortly, he was attacked with a baseball bat and stabbed with a sharp-edged weapon. The person suspected of murder has been identified as Faisal. “We have formed police teams and will catch him soon,” said the police.
 
 Roommate of the deceased, Suraj told police that Rahul had been staying with him and Anand at Keshvnagar for the past one month. “Rahul used to take my bike everyday and return home late night from his job as a liquor salesman but he had quit the job a few days back,” said Suraj.
 
 Ghazipur police inspector Deepak Dubey said the body has been sent for post mortem. “Rahul’s father Ram Dhar Dubey is a retired postmaster, while his elder brother Rohit works with an MNC in Bangalore,” said police.
 
 
