BENGALURU: German is the language of choice among students seeking to learn foreign languages at   ( ), shows admission data from the varsity’s Centre for Global Languages.

 The Centre teaches 11 languages, of which German has been the most preferred one for the last four years. While 83 students enrolled to learn the language in 2016-17, the number was 84 in 2015-16.
 
 “Most of those seeking to learn German are engineers and corporate employees going for higher studies to that country. There’s a provision for evening and weekend classes and working professionals attend them for basic courses,” said   Venkatesh, coordinator for global languages department, BU.
 
 Germany, according to institutes dealing in foreign education, is seen as the most economical country for engineers to continue higher education as the cost of living is comparatively low there. The country is also known to provide some of the best technical courses with minimal fee structure.
 
 “After the US, most engineers and engineering students prefer Germany because of its economical courses,” said Jaylakshmi P, a foreign education consultant.
 
 Said Trilok Suresh, an engineer: “Most engineers choose to go for higher studies after gaining some experience. By then they’d be ready to bear the expenses and Germany seems to be the most economical option.”
 
 “Moreover, it’s easy to learn and we require only a basic course to survive there. Taking other levels depends on requirement,” added Ambrish Vijay, an IT engineer.
 
 While admissions to the Centre for Global Languages close on July 24, more than 50 applications have already come in for German. “Other popular languages include Japanese, Spanish and French. Japanese, too, is mostly taken by working professionals, engineers and students. Spanish and French are preferred more by students wanting to study music and art,” added Jyothi.
 
 Of the 11 foreign languages taught at the centre, Arabic, Russian, Finnish and Italian find few takers.
 
 This year’s session starts from August 5.
 
 
 
 
 Uncertainty over BU’s trifurcation has resulted in a dip in the number of students taking up foreign language courses, say varsity officials; they put the figure at around 100. “The number of students enrolling for the courses has fallen due to the trifurcation issue. This is because students are in a dilemma about timely announcement of results. In fact, to rule out uncertainties, many now prefer taking admissions in private institutes,” said Jyothi.
 
 In 2014-15, the centre had 450 students. The number dipped to 361 in 2015-16 and 358 in 2016-17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 German: 84
 
 Japanese: 71
 
 Spanish: 61
 
 French: 60
 
 Chinese: 35
 
 
 
 
 German: 83
 
 Japanese: 65
 
 Spanish: 65
 
 French: 58
 
 Chinese: 34
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 About 400 seats are offered, including basic, diploma, higher diploma, advance diploma and Phd 
 
