CHANDIGARH: Chairperson of the   Management Trust Vipassana Insan on Monday finally joined the police investigations and revealed that 
  — adopted daughter of rape convict dera head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh — had come to   after the violence on August 25.

 Vipasana joined the probe before the special investigation team (SIT) headed by DSP Kuldeep Beniwal at Huda police post of Sirsa. During her three-hour and 20-minute questioning session, the trust head told that she had arranged an SUV and brought   from Rohtak to Sirsa.
 
 She claimed that Honeypreet had been missing from Sirsa from August 27 onwards and had cut off her contact with the dera’s executive committee members. Sources said Vipassana was asked about the situation inside the dera complex before and after the conviction of Gurmeet. She was also questioned about dera functionaries who were communicating among themselves at Sirsa and Panchkula.
 
 SIT also sought details about the private security personnel at the dera complex, weapons used by them and their training. “We have asked Vipassana about her Honeypreet’s presence and communication with the other members of the dera management,” DSP Beniwal said, while expressing inability to more details of the investigations. Sources said Vipassana told SIT that Honeypreet was accompanied by Pardeep Goyal Insan and Prakash Kumar alias Vicky. Goyal and Parkash, brother-in-law of dera spokesperson  , were arrested from Udaipur and Mohali respectively. They are in the custody of the Panchkula SIT.
 
 Police have said that Pardeep had planned the dera head’s escape from Panchkula to   and then to Rajsthan via Punjab after his conviction in a rape case on August 25. Parkash was present at the epicenter of violence at the 4-5 Hafed light point between sectors 4 and 5 in Panchkula.
 
 
 
 Vipasana, 32, had joined the Sirsa dera when she was a student of Class VI. She had even finished her graduation and postgraduation from the educational institutes inside the dera complex. Like Honeypreet, she was among the closest confidants of dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh. She was in charge of the women section of the dera before she was appointed as chairperson of the dera trust in 2011.
 
 
 
 
 Haryana Police are likely to quiz former Punjab MLA Harminder Singh Jassi, who is father-in-law of Dera head's son Jasmeet Insan. Unwilling to share much details, police sources said that Jassi's men were also in touch with Dera members on August 25 when Gurmeet was convicted in a rape case by the special CBI court in Panchkula.
 
