GURUGRAM: To bring down rising air pollution levels in Gurugram, the district administration on Thursday ordered all   that don’t use eco-friendly zig-zag technology to close down for at least four months. Particulate matter (PM) 2.5, a marker of air quality index, has gone up by 40% in the past one week as compared to previous week.

 “As per the norms of   (NGT), only brick kilns with zig-zag technology will be allowed to function in Gurgaon. The zig-zag technology helps in bringing down emission of pollutants and carbon particles settle down and don’t get released in the atmosphere. It is, therefore, much cleaner technology,” Jai Bhagwan, regional officer of   (HSPCB), told TOI.
 
 “The district food and supply controller ( ) is carrying out inspection and will not let any brick kiln without installation of zig-zag technology to function in the city,” he added.
 
 There are 101 brick kilns in the district. However, not even a single one has zig-zag technology installed. While 95 are located in Nuh, Punhara and Firozpur Jhirka in Mewat, six are located in areas close to Sohna road and Basai road. And greens say brick kilns are a significant source of air pollution.
 
 “As some brick kilns are situated close to residential areas, they cause severe air pollution. Pollutants such as carbon monoxide, sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and suspended particulate matter are released in the atmosphere by brick kilns. I am glad that the authorities finally woke up to the issue,” said Aseem Takyar, who has been filing RTIs regarding the issue.
 
 In fact, air pollution levels are gradually going up in the city. While last week’s highest level of   was 76.44 micrograms per cubic metre (g/m3) on September 11, it increased to 98.06 g/m3 on September 21. The national safe standard prescribes the upper limit of concentration of PM2.5 as 60g/m3.
 
 Brick kiln owners, on the other hand, asked for some time to turn to zig-zag technology. “We understand that zig-zag technology helps in reducing emission levels. We need a budget and at least two to three years to convert to a new technology,” said an owner of a brick kiln in Nuh, who did not wish to be named.
 
