Though the daughter of President of India,  ,   keeps a low profile as an accomplished Kathak dancer and activist. She has proved her mettle in the art form by experimenting with space, rhythms and contemporary themes. We catch up with Sharmistha, who was in Thiruvananthapuram for a public event…

 
  
 
 It was an experimental choreography production of mine, titled, Rainstorm and Autumn Leaves. It happened during the 150th birth anniversary of Tagore and everyone was expressing their love for him in one way or the other. I wanted to try something unique. There is a poem by Tagore, Borsho Shesh, which was inspired by Shelley's Ode to the West Wind. So I tried to combine the poems which take the same metaphor of storm. The kathak production was thus put together on the works of Rabindranath Tagore and English romantic poet P B Shelley by mixing Rabindra Sangeet and western classical music, Antonio Vivaldi’s The Four Seasons Together. It is not only mix of East and West but a mixture of two languages and two different music styles, all interpreted through kathak.
 
 
 
 
 My base is Kathak. In ballet, they always dance on their toes and defy gravity but our Indian forms work with gravity, i.e, stamping of feet. I try to give a little upward movement like in ballet with the same kathak movements in this experimentation. Our classical dance forms are very strong and each form is like a language. Be it English or Malayalam language, without breaking the grammar one can write poetry and also a political article. So similarly within the confines of language, I like to experiment with themes.
 
 
 
 I have performed in more than 40 countries and got the opportunity to take my art to various parts of the world. Also to expose the Indian art forms to a varied audience across the world and interact with other artistes across the globe. Getting to know their culture and imbibe from them is like a learning experience for me.
 
 
 
 
 To be very honest, this was my last production which was done three years ago. And that was the time I joined politics too. After joining politics, everything has completely changed and dance has taken a back seat. These are two completely different worlds. Both are 24x7 jobs, you can’t be part time politician and part time artiste. Unfortunately, since last three years I was not able to come up with any new production and yes I am really missing that.
 I do hope to get some space and go for it.
 
 
 
 
 Women must come out and raise their voices. I am happy that things are changing and they now come out against the perpetrator. Earlier, the victims who were molested or raped didn’t talk about it as they had a social stigma. There must be speedy dispensing of justice too. Take the Nirbhaya case that happened in 2012, now it’s been five years, the case is still on. This was a high profile case which shook the conscience of the nation. So there has to be special courts set up to address the crimes against women. Also there should be gender sensitisation and gender education that will help to eliminate discrimination of women in society.
 
 
 
 
 I don’t think there is any harm in issuing licence for the pets. If the cost of registration for pets is minimal, then there is no harm in that. Also what we need is responsible pet ownership. For example, if one takes their dog out for a walk and it litters the street, it is the responsibility of the owner to ensure that those people in the streets, who are not so fond of dogs, are not inconvenienced. 
 
