THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: After the   fixed the ceiling price of   (DES) and   at Rs 30,000 and that of bare metal stents at Rs 7,500 from Tuesday , hospitals in Kerala have started implementing the same.

 The purchase committee of major hospitals have decided to inform suppliers to either take back the existing stock or reduce the price in line with the revised government rates.“We implemented it from Tuesday . We will not be charging the previous rates for the existing stock. This has been conveyed to suppliers,“ said vice-chairman of KIMS Hospital Dr G Vi jayaraghavan, a known cardiologist.
 
 Dr Vijayaraghavan was at the forefront of the campaign to bring down the prices of stents in India. “A three-year campaign has fructified. This would be a huge benefit as heart diseases are on the rise in the Kerala,“ he said.
 
 Lisie Hospital CFO Jose Sebastian Chittilappilly said: “We too have introduced the new prices for stents. The cost has been reduced by 70-80%. As we never took any margin on stents, it doesn't affect us.“
 
 The Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) too followed suit. “Stent prices will be brought down by suppliers and SCT too will ensure that the benefit is passed on to patients. Necessary or ders were issued in this regard on Wednesday ,“ said director of SCTIMST Dr Asha Kishore.
 
 Already at SCTIMST, there is subsidy for stents under five slabs for various income groups. The new price will now be applicable to all slabs. “Only one of the five categories used to pay the full cost of stent, which was the suppliers' negotiated price. Now, it will become government stipulated rates,“ said the director.
 
 However Dr Vijayaraghavan said that the procedure costs will remain the same and hence patients will be getting the benefit only from the stent price. AIMS medical superintendent Dr Sanjeev Singh said that the hospital has sought the opinion from its legal adviser on what needs to be done. “We are in the process of making changes in the inventory and billing masthead,“ he said.
 
 In Kochi hospitals, the most common stents are bioresorbable and drug eluting stents that are imported. Most hospitals didn't put an MRP to ensure that they can charge anything between Rs 24,000 and Rs 2 lakh for stents. Now, the maximum ceiling price is Rs 29,600.
 
