PUNE: India's new captain across formats,  , made his intentions absolutely clear ahead of the first of three one-day internationals against England. "No games are trial games," he told the media at the Gahunje stadium on Saturday afternoon when asked about India's only ODI assignment before June's Champions Trophy in England.

 "You go out there to win every game. We are treating these three games as knockout games in our heads because we need to prepare for the Champions Trophy. We need to be in the right frame of mind because the tournament is like that - very competitive and very quick."
 
 Kohli also made it clear that the Indians would not be experimenting too much: "We will field the best XI and try to stick to it."
 
 India coach   had earlier underlined the significance of this three-match series when he said that this was India's last ODI series before the big event. After this series, India will play England in three T20s from January 26 onwards.
 
 Whether Kohli's team can walk the talk will soon be known. What makes this contest fascinating is the contrasting styles of the rivals. Unlike their football team, England's ODI team is not over-rated and can cause an upset or two. They are a smart bunch and not lacking in ability either.
 
 A majority of Indians were not involved in serious practice on Saturday. Only  , KL Rahul and   batted for a decent period of time and leggie Amit Mishra turned his arm over. Kohli said everybody was fit and available for selection.
 
 In the last international match at this venue, second-string Sri Lanka had bowled out Indian Goliaths for 101 runs in a T20 game.
 
 Kohli termed the England batsmen, who scored 590 runs in two warm-up one-dayers in Mumbai, as fearless but he suggested that the Indian bowlers would like to exploit their relative inability to rotate the strike in the middle overs. To which England captain   replied in a separate media interaction: "We don't want our batsmen to curb their aggressive ways. We have to be smart and positive." Whether the game has a bigger context or not, it has certainly attracted great response ­ 30,000-plus tickets are already sold.
 
 The conditions at Gahunje generally offer bowlers something to play with either bounce or swing. England would be happier with that rather than play on low-and-slow or spin-friendly tracks. The visitors bat deep and innovatively and that should keep Indian bowlers on their toes, especially if they don't get early wickets.
 
 Despite England's methodical approach and India's new-found confidence, both teams are expected to feel the heat.
 
