AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has expressed dissatisfaction over an   filed by the principal secretary (home) in reply to a public interest litigation ( ) on harassment and stalking of girls and women. The bench has now asked the senior bureaucrat to file a   affidavit on the steps taken to check   of women, particularly school and college girls. 

 A man had approached the   seeking directions to the police to take action against an unidentified person who was stalking, pestering and threatening his minor daughter studying in a junior college. The PIL mentioned that the stalker was undeterred even after repeated complaints to the police.
 
 Taking serious cognizance, the bench comprising Justice S S Shinde and Justice K K Sonwane had on February 1 asked the principal secretary (home) to file an affidavit. The bench had issued a stern warning that failure to file the affidavit on or before February 16 would be “seriously viewed” and would entail “serious consequences” including summoning the principal secretary (home). 
 
 When the matter came up for hearing on February 20, the court went through the affidavit filed by the principal secretary (home) and observed that there was no reply about the concern raised by the petitioner. The court then directed the principal secretary to file a further affidavit in reply to para numbers 10 and 14 of the petition. The court posted the next hearing for March 7.
 
 In the two paras referred to by the court, the petitioner had pointed out to a “disturbing feature” in Aurangabad city over the last two or three years where many school and college girls had committed suicide due to harassment, said S J Salunke, lawyer for the petitioner.
 
 Para 10 of the petition stated: “People involved in eveteasing became overconfident due to inaction of the police who ought to have seen such incidents with utmost sensitivity, and should be prompt to take action against the accused.” In para 14, the petitioner had sought that the police take steps to curb sexual harassment of students in Aurangabad city.
 
 
