MUMBAI: Traffic came to a standstill for several hours on   after a car caught fire on   near the   around 3.45pm on Thursday. Some missed flights, while others were delayed for appointments as it took as much as three hours to cover stretches that usually take 40 minutes.

 Though the traffic snarl-up (north-bound), which continued till late night, was worse than usual, the police delinked the situation from the car burning. “Some of the bottlenecks like Vakola bridge and Amboli saw bumper-to-bumper traffic till almost midnight,” said a traffic police officer. “The   had nothing to do with evening traffic. Traffic flow resumed an hour after the car was cleared from the spot, but it was very slow. It escalated to a gridlock during the evening peak hours in addition to people leaving the city for the extended weekend holiday.” 
 
 While the traffic police claimed that the jam lasted 45 minutes, motorists disagreed. A woman said it took her 40 minutes to cover the distance between Andheri flyover and Vile Parle, which usually takes about five minutes at 5pm. The situation was worse in the opposite direction as the jam reached up to Bandra. One motorist took three hours to cover a distance that usually takes 40 minutes, while another took two hours to travel from ISKCON Juhu to Andheri pump house in the evening. 
 
 The congestion started around 3.45pm, when   Raj Purohit, who was heading for his Dahisar home from CST, saw smoke coming out of the bonnet of his Hyundai i20. He stopped on Vile Parle flyover and within seconds his car went up in flames. No one was hurt. “Purohit said he had given his car for servicing as there was an ignition problem. But on Thursday, he took it back as he wanted to drive to CST,” said Vile Parle senior inspector Laxman Chavan. 
 
 As the fire brigade was delayed by 30 minutes, the traffic police stopped vehicular movement in both directions. 
 
 Stranded motorists took to social media to vent their frustration. “If you’re taking the WE highway going towards the airport, good luck to you, the traffic pile up starts from after the sea link,” tweeted @ShilpaSShah, while @AnjaliS57527131 tweeted, “I missed my flight back home.”
 
 Vakola traffic police inspector Raju Shelke said, “Initially, north-bound traffic was stopped on the flyover. A few minutes later, vehicles was diverted to one lane on the south-bound carriageway as the blaze was being doused.” 
 
 
