PANAJI: The  's plans for a 10-team league this season remains unchanged despite uncertainty from Kolkata's big clubs,   and East Bengal. The Kolkata clubs have both picked up the bid papers and held talks with the   ( ) over participation in the  . But Mohun Bagan has refused to submit the bid till their demands are met. The legacy clubs have been unable to obtain an assurance from the organizers that the franchise fee 足 ranging from Rs 12 crore to Rs 18 crore 足 will be waived off.

 Even if both Kolkata clubs stay away, the organizers are likely to be aided by   and Tata Group, both of whom are expected to submit their bid papers on Thursday.
 
 "Bengaluru FC have their bid papers ready. They have done well to keep everything ready. Their bid will be submitted before the deadline," a source told TOI. Just like the Kolkata clubs, Bengaluru FC too had submitted a conditional bid when tenders were first floated in 2014 but the bid was summarily rejected. This time around, the Federation Cup champions and India's most successful club in the last four years, are unwilling to take a chance. They will submit a complete bid, which will include the franchise fee guarantee of Rs 7.5 crore.
 
 The Tata Group also picked up the bid papers, and it is understood to be keen on owning a franchise. The ISL has eight franchises. Should the Tata Group and Bengaluru FC follow an expected route, the ISL juggernaut will move to Jamshedpur and the  .
 
 The ISL and I-League, India's premier football competition, will both run simultaneously this season for five months. The ISL will kick off mid-November while the introduction of the Super Cup 足 a clash between the top four teams from each league 足 will keep ISL franchises busy till end of season for the first time since inception in 2014.
 
 AIFF slots another meeting with  
 
 The Asian Football Confederation (AFC) has delayed its decision on the status of the Indian Super League (ISL) till next month.
 
 AFC general secretary Dato Windsor John held extensive talks with All India Football Federation (AIFF) president   and general secretary Kushal Das in the Capital on Wednesday. But an expected announcement was put off till another meeting in Kuala Lumpur on June 7. The meeting, which will be chaired by Windsor, will be attended by various AFC directors. Invitations will also be sent to Fifa's representatives, senior representatives from the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, I-League and ISL Clubs, AIFF's commercial partner and the Football Players' Association of India.
 
