JAIPUR: Notorious fugitive   Singh used to venture out every night from Shravan Singh’s house, where he had holed up to evade police arrest, to some remote areas as he was aware of the police tracking his movement.

 However, on June 24, before he could leave Shravan’s house and go to this isolated place, he was surrounded by policemen, commandos and local cops. This was revealed by ADGP (law and order) and ADGP (crime) at a press conference on Sunday while asserting that Anandpal was asked to surrender many times by the police. But the gangster replied every request with firing.
 
 Explaining how the encounter with Anandpal took place at a press conference on Sunday, ADGP (crime) Pankaj Singh and ADGP (law and order) NRK Reddy claimed that the police have eight independent witnesses in the case to corroborate how the police kept asking the gangster to surrender and how the fugitive went on firing without paying heed.
 
 “In the investigation so far, it has become clear that Anandpal had made Shravan Singh’s house his hideout just 10 days before the incident. Shravan also said that due to the fear of being caught, Anandpal used to venture out of the house every other day. He used to keep himself safe in jungles, mountains and other isolated places to evade arrest,” said Singh.
 
 Singh added that after arresting Gattu and Vicky, Anandpal’s brother, an SOG team, which was on the way to Bikaner, was asked to head to Churu. “Before he could venture out of Shravan’s house, the whole area was cordoned off by 7.30pm. Other than SOG officers, the team also had local police, Churu SP and Haryana police personnel. It may have been good luck for us as we reached the spot on time,” Singh added.
 
 Refuting the claims of those claiming it was a fake encounter, Singh said, “We have got eight independent witnesses to the operation, including the owner of the house, Shravan Singh, three women in the house, and few other relatives of Singh who also heard our team asking Anandpal to surrender. Gattu and Vicky were also taken to the spot. But we are yet to record their statements as they are in judicial custody. They too know how our team had continuously asked the gangster to surrender,” he said.
 
 On reports claiming the media was not allowed access to family members in Shravan’s house who witnessed the encounter, he said, “After receiving bail, they had gone to live with relatives since a death had taken place in their house. I urge every media person to visit the house, speak to the family and see the bullet marks and other circumstantial evidences which corroborate Anandpal’s death in the exchange of fire.”
 
