British Indian Ocean Territory (BIOT) authorities have slapped the fine of 5909 (approximately Rs 4.77 lakh in Indian currency) on 32 Indian   from Tamil Nadu and Kerala for violating their territorial waters. The fishermen will be set free once the fine is paid in full, a communication from them stated.

 The 32 fishermen from Thoothoor coastal panchayat in Western Kanyakumari and various places in Kerala undertook a deep sea fishing expedition from Kochi fishing harbour in two fishing vessels on February 5. They were supposed to return after a month-long fishing expedition, but instead they had called their family members in the first week of March stating that were detained at Diego Garcia. 
 
 Subsequent communications made to BIOT authorities by the International Fishermen Development Trust (IFDT), a NGO from Thoothoor revealed that the fishermen were arrested on February 28 and nine tonnes of fish catch from each of their boats were destroyed. BIOT court registered cases against them on charges of poaching illegally in BIOT waters. They were produced before a BIOT court on March 10. 
 
 On March 13, administrator of BIOT, Nicola Carnie communicated that the court has slapped a penalty of 5709 and 200 as cost. If the fine is paid in full by March 17, the crew will be free to leave the territory. 
 
 Approximately, the fishermen have to pay around Rs 4.77 lakh as fine and the families are not in a situation to afford so much, said P Justin Antony of IFDT. “We appeal to the central government to take out diplomatic measures to secure the release of our fishermen without the burden of paying the fine amount,” he said.
 
 The detention of bread winners has caused lot of agony to the fishermen families. Most of them are Christians and it is the season of Lent and Easter for them. The children are also preparing for annual examinations. “We are very much worried. The fish our men caught were also destroyed by BIOT authorities. We pray that our fishermen return safely to shore soon,” said Suja, wife of Judy Albert, master of one of the vessels. 
 
 
