SURAT: Bharuch town will be illuminated with more than 14,000 LED street lamps. Thanks to   (SMC) for taking up the gigantic task in a record four days. 

 The decision to illuminate Bharuch town with LED lamps was taken at the last moment ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the coastal industrial belt for the inauguration of India’s longest 1.4km ‘extradose’ cable-stayed bridge on Narmada river connecting Ankleshwar and Bharuch on the National Highway 8 on March 7.
 
 The civic body, which is already working on changing all the street lights with energy efficient LED lamps along with   (EESL), a   enterprise, has deployed a team of more than 100 technicians in the Bharuch town since last three days to take up the challenging task of changing more than 14,000 streetlights. The technicians are working in two shifts to ensure that the work is completed latest by Sunday.
 
 Talking to TOI, additional city engineering, K H Khatwani said, “It’s a challenging job to change all the street lights in Bharuch in a record time. We have deployed a team of 100 people who are working day and night to ensure that the work is completed latest by Sunday.” According to Khatwani, SMC is providing assistance to the EESL in changing street lights with LED lamps in Bharuch. EESL is changing all the street lights with LED lamps at its own cost and will operate and maintain them for a period of seven years. 
 
 Soon after the Bharuch project, EESL will start the work for changing 90,000 street lights with LED lamps in Surat. Its operation and maintenance cost is Rs 8.5 crore per year. Otherwise SMC would have to invest Rs145 crore on the LED light project. SMC has thus been able to save Rs145 crore in capital expenditure and electricity worth Rs 4 crore annually, sources said. 
 
 Sources in Bharuch said that the LED lamps will be illuminated parallel to the LED lighting on the 1.4km long cable-stayed bridge to be inaugurated by the PM on March 7. Bharuch nagarpalika president, R V Patel said, “It’s a blessing in disguise for the residents of Bharuch. We are thankful to EESL and SMC for changing our street lights with LED lamps. This way we will be able to reduce our yearly energy bill at a staggering 55 to 60%.”
 
 
