BATHINDA: Moga district administration has proposed to initiate tough measures against the farmers indulging in the burning of paddy straw. The administration on Wednesday announced a number of measures against those farmers who will burn their crop residue.

  “Farmers burning stubble will not be provided any loans from the village agriculture cooperative societies. They will neither be given agriculture implements and other items needed in farming on rent. Red entries will be made in the revenue records against the farmers burning stubble. Grants will not be provided to villages where more number of farmers will burn stubble and cases for violation of prohibitory orders will also be registered. The villages which will lead in this campaign against stubble burning will be honoured and special grants will be given them,” Moga deputy commissioner Dilraj Singh told TOI.
 
 Some other districts, too, have adopted different measures to stop the farmers from burning the stubble. The   government has directed the district administrations to advice farmers against burning of paddy straw and to take strict measures against the violators. During the previous years, only fines were levied and cases were registered against farmers who violated prohibitory orders.
 
 Various districts have directed the agriculture department officials to keep a strict vigil on the farmers. The state government has imposed a fine on stubble burning ranging from Rs 2,5000 to Rs 15,000 depending on the size of the field.
 
 Bathinda DC Diprava Lakra said, “Directions have been given to all government officials, who have lands, not to burn the crop residue. Village numberdars, chowkidars and sarpanchs have been approached to check stubble burning. Nearly 15,000 persons have given us the undertaking against stubble burning. We hope to get similar assurances from nearly 50% farmers of the district.”
 
  told TOI, “On Tuesday, I had held one-to-one meetings with sarpanchs of a number of villages to motivate farmers not to burn the crop residue. I have directed revenue and agriculture department to be in constant touch with the farmers.”
 
 Meanwhile, farmer organisation BKU ( ) general secretary   said before taking tough measures, the government should provide “workable alternatives” or provide assistance of Rs 3,000 per acre to farmers to make arrangements for avoiding burning of stubble. 
 
 
