AHMEDABAD: Unable to fulfill his parents wish that he become a doctor, a 16-year-old boy had left his house in the city nine months back. However, on Friday night, he was recovered by the missing persons squad of the city   from Mumbai, and reunited with his parents. 

 The tearful reunion of the boy with his parents has raised many questions about the aspirations of parents who want their children to become doctors or engineers instead of allowing them to blossom in their own way. Son of a well-off farmer, the boy used to study in a prestigious school in the city and seemed all set to get a medical seat when he scored 85% in the  .However, the   came as shock to him and his parents. He could score only 60%. That destroyed the boy’s dream of becoming a doctor.
 
  His elder brother is also a brilliant student studying to become a chartered accountant. The boy felt ashamed that he had done badly in HSC. On May 27, 2016 he left his house on the pretext of going out to play cricket with friends. A missing person’s complaint was lodged at Isanpur police station which covers the area where the boy was living with his uncle for studies. But there was no breakthrough in the investigation.
 
 The case was then transferred to crime branch and handed over to inspector Tandel. Clueless till about a month back, the police were informed by the boy’s cousin that the missing boy’s social media account, which was dormant since his disappearance, had been activated.
 
 “A saint’s picture was uploaded by the boy on his social media account,” inspector Tandel said. “Once we got the IP address from which the account had been activated, we traced the boy to Shakinaka in Mumbai.”
 
 On reaching Shakinaka on Thursday, the crime branch sleuths breathed a sigh of relief as the boy was in the safe hands of Indraprakash Parihar, a cutlery trader.“The boy used to work in Parihar’s cutlery shop and stay with his family. Parihar treated him like his own son,” inspector Tandel said.
 
 Crime branch officials said they reached Ahmedabad the same night with he boy and handed him over to his family. “The residents of the entire area had gathered when the reunion took place. The best part was that the boy’s family invited Parihar to their house and Parihar, in turn, told them to visit Mumbai and be their guest. The reunion gave us immense satisfaction,” said a senior crime branch official.
 
