CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu's health department on Tuesday said it may make measles-rubella vaccination mandatory for all children between 9 months and 15 years if parents continued to resist.
TN had planned to give the vaccine to more than 1.8 crore children, nearly a quarter of the state's population, in schools and health centres by February-end.On Tuesday, officials said only 85 lakh children had been vaccinated and the drive extended by another fortnight.
 
 “Several schools have needlessly sought the consent of parents. Children, who had not received the consent, did not get the vaccine. This has been a major hurdle. The Public Health Act allows us to give vaccine without consent. If need be, we will make it mandatory,“ health minister C Vijaya Baskar told reporters, ahead of a meeting with health and education department officials.
 
 Under the Act, the responsibility to control communicable and infectious diseases lay with the directorate of public health. “When it comes to vaccines, it is only implied consent and not informed or mandatory consent,“ said director of public health Dr K Kolandaisamy. Former advocate general A L Somayaji said the state had the powers to make vaccination mandatory if larger public interest was involved. “It can even quote the example of how smallpox was eradicated with vaccines. At that time every child had to take the vaccine,“ he said.
 
 In the extended drive, the vaccine will be available at state-run medical college hospitals and district hospitals.In schools, health and education officials will seek support from parent-teacher associations and bodies such as Indian Medical Association, Association of Physicians of India and the Indian Academy of Paediatrics to convince more parents. “Our ambassadors are the 85 lakh children who have been vaccinated.We are confident of convincing all,“ said school education secretary D Sabitha.
 
 On Monday , Indian Council of Medical Research and   officials announced that the vaccine manufactured in India was being used in more than 100 countries. “It is safe and effective,“ said Dr Henk Bekedam, head of WHO (India).
 
 It is the first phase of the Union ministry of health and family welfare drive in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Goa, Puducherry and Lakshadweep. By April, measles-rubella vaccine will replace measles vaccine for children under two in TN.
 
 Rubella, or German measles, is a contagious viral infection that spreads when an infected person coughs or sneezes and can also be passed on from mother to the newborn. It can even cause heart disease, blindness and brain disorders if women are infected in the first few weeks of pregnancy. More than two lakh children in India and at least 2,000 in Tamil Nadu are born deaf, blind, or with heart or brain damage every year due to the congenital rubella syndrome.
 
 Health department officials say studies in Tirunelveli, Madurai and Coimbatore indicate at least 21.5% of married women are at risk for rubella. In 2006, a communitybased study in five TN districts showed 82.2% of children in the 1-5 age group and 14% in the 11-16 age group were at risk. In government hospitals, more than 30 newborns came with congenital cataract, another 30 with deafness and more than 500 children had heart diseases after rubella virus was passed on to them from their mothers.
 
