MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Monday offered interim protection against deportation to a man born to Pakistani mother but who has been residing in India for nearly five decades. The court directed the Central government to consider a representation for Indian citizenship filed in few weeks and to ensure that no action is taken against the man or his family till then.

 The court observed that it was a 'unique case' while disposing the petition filed by   Kaladia and his father Abbas Kaladi, an Indian citizen. They were seeking Indian citizenship for Asif.
  
 Earlier the HC had declined to pass any interim orders to extend a long term visa as sought by Kaladia. His lawyers   and   Mehta urged the HC to direct the Ministry of Home and External Affairs to grant an Indian Citizenship as his name was stamped on his mother’s Pakistani passport after his birth in  . 
 
 The lawyers argued that under section 5 of the Citizenship Act Asif Karadia was eligible to be granted Indian citizenship
 
 His application was pending and during that time the police authorities should not be permitted to deport Asif they said.  , the public prosecutor said that the police would in two weeks forward the representation to the home ministry and the court disposed of the petitions directing that the Centre must consider the representation in 14 weeks
 
 and till then no action to be taken against the petitioner or his family members.
 
  Asif though born in Karachi was brought to India as child in arms and his name was endorsed on the Pakistani Passport of his mother, his plea said. The Government of India granted citizenship to his mother in 1972. Asif’s father was always an Indian Citizen. Asif, said Kantawala married an Indian Citizen and has 3 children who are all Indian Citizens. The Petitioner has been applying for Citizenship but has received no response, Kantawala said and in the meantime he had applied also for long term visa, “which was deemed to have been granted.’’.
 
 Under the Citizenship Act, Asif’s case is that he is entitled to citizenship by descent, registration and naturalization. Under Article 5 of the Constitution of India, since he is domiciled in the territory of India and either of his parents having been born in India, statutorily entitles him to a Citizenship of India, argued Kantawala.
 
 Asif has been residing in India for more than 49 years and holds an Aadhar Card, School Leaving Certificate, Voting Card, Indian Domicile Certificate and PAN Card and the representation to the Home Ministry and other authorities is still pending, the HC was informed. He also has no criminal antecedents, said Kantawala, asking the court where would he go? He moved court to challenge a communication sent by the Crime Branch department of Mumbai police that it would issue him a leave India notice if a copy of a valid Pakistani passport is not furnished by him. His case is that he possesses no passport, neither Indian, nor Pakistani.
 
