PANAJI:   of the City of Panaji,  , on Tuesday has expressed the civic body’s inability to continue collecting   from hospitals and clinics from April 1. Desai has appealed to proprietors of the 97 healthcare facilities in Panaji to cooperate with   (GHMS) for the collection and management of their biomedical waste.

 For the past three months, GHMS, a firm authorized by the GSPCB for managing biomedical waste, has been collecting it from around 15 hospitals, 32 dentists, 22 pathology labs, three veterinary hospitals, and general practitioners under CCP’s jurisdiction, with the civic body paying for the collection from sanitation fees it collects from the health care facilities. Between 120 and 150 kgs of biomedical waste is collected in the city per day.
 
 All   is taken to the GMC while non-incinerable waste is recycled at the biomedical waste management facility at  , Dona Paula. 
 
 Mayor Surendra Furtado has promised the commission’s logistic support, but has asked health care providers in the city to coordinate with GHMS for the management of biomedical waste considering the recent Bio-medical Waste (Management and Handling) Rules, 2016 notification.
 
 Instead of the sanitation fees ranging between Rs 700 and Rs 4,500, the hospitals will have to pay approximately Rs 10 per day per bed, pathology labs Rs 2,000 per month, dentists Rs 1,500 per month and general practitioners around Rs 1,000 to GHMS for the management of their waste.
 
 GHMS will provide the necessary training in management of biomedical waste.
 
 More than 50 representatives of medical facilities participated in the biomedical waste management awareness workshop conducted by Indian Medical Association and CCP on Tuesday afternoon. Desai stressed on the importance of segregation of waste. He added that half the waste is mixed with municipal waste, thus posing a hazard to CCP workers.
 
 The representatives are scheduled to meet on March 29 to come to a consensus on the issue before IMA meets the health secretary on March 31 to finalize the issue. 
 
 Desai said this initiative would help the city that is already ahead of many others in terms of garbage management and set an example for the rest of Goa and other cities in biomedical waste management, too.
 
