PATNA: The state government on Monday transferred 44 IPS officers.
 
  Bhojpur, Motihari, Saran, Samastipur, Lakhisarai, Banka, Begusarai, Buxar, Araria, Jehanabad, and Nalanda will have new SPs. D Amarkesh will be new city (Patna central) SP replacing Chandan Kushwaha, who will be SP, Banka. Patna (east) SP Dhurat Saayli Savlaram has been made SP, Araria. Vishal Sharma has replaced Saayli in Patna.
  
  Bhojpur SP Khatranil Singh has been shifted to BMP-6 with additional charge of commandant, BMP-15. Gaya SP (Town) Avakash Kumar has replaced him. Jagunnath Reddy will be Gaya SP (town).
  
  Motihari SP Jitender Rana has been replaced by Buxar SP Upendra Kumar Sharma. Rana has been shifted to social welfare department. Phulwari Sharif SDPO Rakesh Kumar was transferred to Buxar in place of Sharma.
  
  Begusarai SP Ranjeet Kumar Mishra has been replaced by Aditya Kumar, who was SP, Jehanabad. Manish has been sent to Jehanabad as SP. Mishra was made SP of Special Task Force (STF).
  
  Harkishore Rai has been made new SP, Saran, replacing Anusuiya Ransingh Sahu, who has been transferred to CID (weaker sections and women cell).
  
  Araria SP Sudhir Kumar Porika will be Nalanda SP, replacing Kumar Ashish, who has been sent to BMP-12, Saharsa.
  
  Deepak Ranjan will be new SP, Samastipur, replacing Naval Kishore Singh.
  
    Police Academy DG Sunil Kumar, a 1987 batch who was also handing the additional charge of BMP, has been made DG-cum-managing director of Bihar Police Building Construction Corporation. The position became vacant with retirement of 1984 batch officer AK Upadhaya on July 31.
  
  Kumar batchmate Gupteshwar Pandey has been posted as the new DG of Bihar Police Academy. He was earlier posted as ADG, wireless and technical services.
  
  ADG (Modernisation) Preeta Verma has been given the additional charge of ADG (Wireless and technical services). She is also handling the additional charge of ADG, State Crime Record Bureau (SCRB).
  
  IG (CID, weaker section) Anil Kishore Yadav has been posted as IG (training). Munger range DIG Manju Jha has been posted in place of Yadav.
  
  DIG (Bhagalpur range) Vikas Vaibhav has been given the additional charge of Munger range. Tirhut range DIG Anil Kumar Singh has been given the additional charge of DIG (BMP) of north zone.
  
  Lakhisarai SP   has been posted as SP (A) in Special branch. Banka SP Rajeev Ranjan has been made commandant of Bihar home guards in Patna.
  
  Mahnar SDPO (Vaishali) Upendra Nath Verma was made City SP, Muzaffarpur. Newly promoted IPS officer Arvind Thakur was transferred as Lakhisarai SP. Twelve more IPS officers were also transferred between different wings in the police department.
