NAGPUR: The members of Nagpur for Kids (NFK) Club on Sunday got an opportunity to learn different aspects of photography and click many memorable pictures. The workshop, organized at Audio Video Hall, Saint Francis De Sales College, Seminary Hills, began at 7.30am. It was conducted by The Times of India’s special photographer Ranjit Deshmukh.

 The workshop began with an ice-breaking session where kids were shown a funny yet informative video depicting different styles of photographers across the world. “Though it is funny, it involves a lot of hard work and patience,” Deshmukh told kids. Pranav Sane, a student of  , observed that all the photographers in the video had a unique style.
 
 Explaining different aspects of wildlife photography, Deshmukh said, “Wild animals are very unpredictable. Therefore, it is very important that we do not disturb them. We should not use flash light while capturing wild animals as they feel threatened due to it.”
 
 In the next session, Deshmukh explained different functions of mobile cameras. “In the auto mode, the camera decides all the settings while the pro mode allows you to manually adjust settings according to your needs and give a creative touch to your photography,” he said.
 
 The session was followed by presentations on famous photographers in India and across the world and the best photography institutes in the world. “As engineers, doctors and lawyers are made, photographers are also made,” Deshmukh said. 
 
 He then briefed the kids on different lenses like Portrait Lens, Fisheye Lens, Carl Zeiss Planar 50mm f/0.7,  , Sigma 200-500mm Lens and Extreme Distance Lens.
 
 “Carl Zeiss Planar has a 0.7 f factor. It denotes how much light goes in the camera to capture the image,” Deshmukh said and added, “This lens is very useful where natural light is not very good.”   captures a wide angle up to 180 degrees while the Super Telephoto Lens has a narrow angle and captures faraway objects, he said. 
 
 After a short refreshment break, NFK members gathered on the playground outside the hall to cover an ongoing cricket match. “Patience and anticipation are very crucial here. Photographers have to be focused all the time or they miss historic moments,” he said. Kids also captured photographs of SFS campus and church.
 
