Jalandhar: Though the protesting skinners seem to have accepted the 5% GST on raw hides as a blow by the fate and started picking up dead cattle again, the sentiment at the century-old Buta Mandi here is at an all-time low.

 The largest market of raw hides in North India after Kanpur is grappling with serious crisis as prices have slid almost to the half of what they were two-three years back (see box).
 
 “Leather products may be seem quite expensive to consumers but the raw hide prices have been going down. They are almost half of what they were around three years back. We receive raw hide from Punjab, Haryana, parts of Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir and even some parts of UP,” says Surinder Mahey, former mayor of Jalandhar and a broker of raw hide for the last 35 years.
 
 “The lowering of prices has directly impacted the workers at the ground level, while our margins are now very thin and turnover has also come down,” he claims.
 
 Mahey holds that the business was hit after cow vigilantes started hitting headlines and export orders came down. “Major part of our raw material is going to export units in Kolkata, where it is used in making gloves,” he says.
 
 Even PM Narendra Modi’s call to the state governments to act against the cow vigilantes has not revived their hopes, the traders here say. “GST we can survive but not vigilantism,” one of them says, requesting anonymity.
 
 Amar Nath, who retired as general manager from Coal India and joined his father’s five decade-old business here in 2013, echoes similar views. “Financial year 2014-15 was fine but it has been downhill since. The Union government has included leather manufacturing in ‘Make In India’ campaign but current controversies have led to uncertainty among international buyers as they suspect that leather supplies could be problem,” he says.
 
 “Around 40% of traders have already opted out of the business,” Nath claims.
 
 “We were satisfied with the income after lifting dead animals and taking the raw hide to Mandi but now workers like me are barely making both the ends meet. Earlier, we used to pay something to owner who called us after their buffalo or cow calf died but now we don’t pay them anything. Even those who calls us regularly and ask for the old prices are shocked when we offer barely half of what we gave earlier,” says Hira, who skins dead animals.
 
 “Though there have been ups and downs earlier. This is surely the worst phase ever for the raw hide market. Efforts being made by the Union government to push the trade have been neutralized by the impression that there could be problems in supplies due to repeated controversies,” says Pawan Kumar, a local councilor. His grandfather had started the business of trading of veg-tanned leather in 1955, and later the family also got into raw hide trading.
 
 However, Ajay Sharma, who runs a manufacturing and export unit of leather products, says that orders from international buyers had come down but this was due to overall global reduction in demand of leather products. “Production of leather products is down by at least 30% and some units have suffered major loses due to shrinking orders,” he adds.
 
 Sanjiv Kumar Babbu, a contractor of lifting dead animals at Phagwara, also says that they are hit hard by the sliding prices of raw hide. “There is common perception among those working at ground level that controversies surrounding beef and cow vigilantes are ruining their business,” he says.
 
 Through the century of ups and downs
 
 Former diplomat Ramesh Chander, who proudly calls himself a Buta Mandian and preferred to return to the roots after retiring from IFS, said it was now a century-old market of raw hides. “This Mandi always remained a thriving business hub of raw hide but now market confidence has gone low due to prevailing conditions and controversies in the country,” says Chander, who writes frequently on community issues.
 
 Raw hide prices based on feedback of different traders
 
 Prices of raw hide Three years ago Now
 
 Good Quality: Rs 55-60 per sq feet Rs23-24 per sq feet
 
 Second quality: Rs 45 per sq feet Rs 17-18 per sq feet
 
 Buffalo calf (good quality): Rs 1,400 per piece Rs 600 per piece
 
 Lower quality: Rs 150 per piece Rs 65 per piece
 
 Cow calf low quality: Rs170-175 per piece Rs 50-55 per piece
 
 
