CHENNAI: Social media exploded in support of Tamil Nadu chief minister O Paneerselvam as soon as he ended his 
  on   where he hit out against   legislature party leader V K Sasikala 
  . 

 People cutting across party lines hailed the move. The tweets and statements also hinted that the AIADMK camp is divided. 
 
 DMK MLA from Chepauk-Triplicane J Anbazhagan tweeted in favour of the chief minister, congratulating him for his bold speech while joint secretary of the AIADMK IT wing Hari Prabhakaran tweeted in support of OPS, saying that he was not afraid of being removed from his post. 
 
 "I'm proud to throw my post for supporting my CM #OPS. Now at least expecting the MLAs and MPs to support to OPS. Amma is living with us." He said in a tweet which went viral. 
 
 BJP Rajya Sabha MP also tweeted five minutes after the OPS press meet got over, stating that "If this infighting continues in AIADMK then no stable govt is possible."
 
 Meanwhile, the house of chief minister O   and Poes Garden, where V K Sasikala resides, presented a picture of stark contrast. More than two hundred party workers thronged Panneerselvam's house on Greenways Road. The partymen were playing songs from the MGR movies which used to be played at all party gatherings. Former minister K P Munusamy, a vocal critique of Sasikala, was seen coming out of the Paneerselvam's house around 10.45pm. 
 
 Entry into Poes Garden was restricted to MLAs, MPs and senior ministers. Some protesters managed to sneak in and raised slogans against Panneerselvam. MP and deputy speaker of Lok Sabha M Thambidurai, law minister C Ve Shanmugam and revenue minister R B Udhaya Kumar were seen going into Poes Garden. 
 
 Many people who were trying to get into Poes Garden were discussing whether   would be accepted as chief minister or Sasikala would ask her MLAs to move a no-confidence motion against him. 
 
 An AIADMK minister said there was sufficient information to believe that the Centre was in the loop Paneerselvam's decision to meditate on Marina Beach.
 
 "We believe that the Centre was very much aware of the unease and dissent among Tamilians over Sasikala and her family's takeover of the party. Paneerselvam has always been well-respected in many circles - and the union ministers are largely positive towards him," said the minister.
 
 Another feeling in party circles is that Paneerselvam had inside information that the disproportionate assets case verdict would go badly for Sasikala. "There is enough reason to believe that the judge would not let off Sasikala and her family in the case - even if they might have been hesitant to deal with our former chief minister if she had been alive. With the CM's death, there is no reason to let them off the hook. It would definitely be a feather on the cap of the judiciary to go after her," said the minister.
 
