GURUGRAM: The sit-in by Jat protestors in the city near Daultabad flyover was lifted on Wednesday, after   (AIJASS) leader Yashpal Malik held a joint press conference with chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in Delhi on Sunday. However, the protest continues at village Ransika in Pataudi, where protesters said they are waiting for Malik to visit them before they end the sit-in.

 Around 50 villages from Pataudi, Bawal and Gurgaon blocks held a panchayat on February 23, where they decided to hold sit-ins to press for their demands. The protests began on March 3, with sympathetic villagers joining them in solidarity.
 
 “We joined the protests late, so we want to make up with our contribution to the cause. We want to build pressure on the government and will thus continue with our sit-in. It will be lifted after March 27, only after Yashpal Malik visits us here,” said Tarif Kundu, a village leader. 
 
 Khattar and Malik had announced on Sunday that the state government and the agitators had reached an agreement. AIJASS had been demanding review of cases against Jats registered after the agitation for reservation in February last year turned violent. Another demand was jobs for those killed in police firing during those same protests.
 
 While Malik cancelled the call for a march to Delhi, giving the government time till Sunday, on Thursday he again warned the administration he could besiege Parliament within 24 hours if promises were not kept, while visiting sit-in venues in Panipat, Sonipat and Rohtak. 
 
 Meanwhile, dharnas were lifted in least 14 places across the state and neighbouring areas. These include Israna in Panipat, Garhi Birbal in Karnal, Shahbad in Kurukshetra, Danauda Kalan in Jind, Bhiwani, Batda in Dadri; Dayalpur in Ballabhgarh, Hodel and Hathin in Palwal, Gurgaon, Nangal Chaudhary in Mahendergarh, Naraingarh in Ambala and Jagadhari Grain Market in Yamunanagar.
 
 However, there are at least at 15 places in Haryana and UP, where the protest continued for the 52nd day on Thursday. There are plans to lift dharnas from some more places on Friday. The symbolic sit-ins at the rest of the spots will continue and will be reviewed at the meeting of the AIJASS core committee on March 26.
 
 
