NAGPUR: “Every doctor must have empathy towards patients and society. It is expected of medical students to be courteous as they will be the future of our country. To make the future bright, doctors should come forward to help the underprivileged,” said  , Maharashtra minister for medical education.

 Mahajan was speaking at the inauguration of cultural youth festival ‘Spandan 2017’ organized by   ( ), Nashik, at Dr   on Thursday. He said, “The government has started many projects for fighting breast cancer and for organ donation. For these projects to succeed, doctors should spread awareness among patients as they are considered as God.”
 
 “I am a commerce graduate, but I have a long relation with the medical department as I have helped more than two lakh patients from 200 villages near my constituency with health problems. From my experience, I can tell that if you have empathy towards society, you can be a successful doctor as well as an ideal citizen,” the health minister said.
 
 Well-known film actor and psychiatrist Dr Mohan Agashe was the chief guest at the programme. He said, “Learning with interest is the key to success in life.”
 
 Calling for giving priority to art and culture, the veteran actor said, “A person must have two professions in life; one for survival and other for making it worth.”
 
 Observation and empathy cannot be taught in schools and a doctor must learn it through experience by which he can really be helpful to society,” added Agashe.
 
 Citizens who donated their relatives’ organs were felicitated at the programme. Rama Radha Krishnan, Roshyna Rana, Pawan Dewasantake, Vijay and Sushmita Kuthalkar were among those felicitated. 
 
 The health minister was felicitated for his work in spreading awareness about organ donation through rallies and awareness programmes. Medical colleges from Mumbai, Thane, Aurangabad and Nagpur were also felicitated for spreading awareness about organ donation. 
 
 The cultural programmes will continue till Sunday in which 28 competitions will be held in singing, dancing, drama, literature and arts. Medical students of MUHS from various colleges across Maharashtra will participate in these competitions. 
 
 
