PATNA: The Chhatra RJD activists’ procession on  , which resulted in a   near their party office, was held without permission from the police or district administration.

 Chhatra RJD state president Aakash Yadav admitted to TOI that   had denied permission for the procession. “We had informed the Kotwali police station in-charge, who denied permission for our march on the grounds that Beerchand Patel Marg is a prohibited zone. But we went ahead with the event as it was a peaceful march,” Aakash said.
 
 Though no procession, dharna or gherao is permitted on Beerchand Patel Marg, the Chhatra RJD activists took out the procession, which was escorted by a police team. Though Patna police was in the process of lodging a separate FIR against unnamed persons involved in the clash, its officers failed to explain the police escort to the RJD procession. 
 
 “Though party workers gather at their respective offices, but no political procession or similar activities are allowed on Beerchand Patel Marg. While a police team was deployed for the RJD’s procession, but permission for holding procession in the city is given by the district administration. In fact, the clash was controlled timely only because of the police presence on the spot,” City SP   told TOI.
 
 When contacted, Patna ADM (law & order) Ashutosh Kumar Verma said no prior permission was taken by the Chhatra RJD for the procession. “It appeared to be a case of sudden outbreak of aggression. We did not have any prior information about the procession. Permission for such processions or rallies in the state capital is normally given by deputy superintendent of police (DSP) of the respective area in the district control room,” Verma said.
 
 SSP Manu Maharaaj told reporters it was an unprovoked violence. “Police intervened timely to separate the clashing workers of both the parties,” he said. 
 
 Sources said district administration and police don’t allow political rallies or procession beyond the JP roundabout near Gandhi Maidan after the Patna high court order in this regard. Earlier, police used water cannon and force whenever the organizers of any rally attempted to cross the JP roundabout.
 
 Recently, Madhepura MP Rajesh Ranjan alias   was arrested on the charges of creating nuisance at Kargil Chowk on January 24. Police had accused Pappu of provoking his workers to attack the police personnel stopping the Jan Adhikar Party (Loktantrik) workers from proceeding towards the assembly, which is a prohibited zone.
 
 Later in the evening, separate delegations of BJP and RJD functionaries submitted their respective memorandum to DGP P K Thakur demanding action against those indulged in the afternoon violence.
 
