HYDERABAD: Fines and challans are no deterrents for those who park their vehicles in a haphazard manner in the   region. Official   show that in the first two months of this year alone, nearly 1,329 cases of parking violations were recorded within Cyberabad. 

 The total number of parking violations in the Cyberabad region went up from 598 in January, to 731 in February. Between June and December 2016, a total of 4,244 cases of parking violations were booked by the Cyberabad traffic cops. Records also indicate that the maximum number of such violations were committed by lorries/trucks, followed by heavy motor vehicles, and medium motor vehicles, in 2016 and 2017. RTC and private buses also figure in the list of offenders.
 
 Traffic DCP in-charge, Rachakonda, Divya Charan Rao pointed out that the situation was no different in the Rachakonda area, where mini trucks have been identified as the biggest violators. "Unauthorized parking is a constant menace, which we are regularly cracking down on by issuing challans. In case of repeat offenders, we are also sending in letters to the license issuing   (RTA), seeking a three-month suspension of the violator's driving license. We are planning to conduct a special drive to collect the pending amount, after the next 15 days. All traffic offenders are requested to pay their dues, before then," said Rao.
 
 Regular commuters in Cyberabad, meanwhile, rue the almost 'arbitrary' process of issuing challans and point to the severe crunch in parking space along most roads cutting through the IT belt and inside most commercial establishments as the source of their woes.
 
 "I was once issued a challan outside   in Chandanagar for having parked my vehicle outside the establishment. Traffic cops are seen issuing challans randomly," said  , a resident of Chandanagar. Many pointed to multi-level parking lots as the only solution. "Multi-level parking lots, since they are spread over many floors, can accommodate more vehicles than a ground-level parking area," said Samad Shariff, a secretary with a private firm
 
