ALLAHABAD: In an apparent bid to connect with masses ahead of 2019 parliamentary polls, the state BJP ( ) leadership is preparing a directory of 2,500 voluntary blood donors (party workers) each in all 75 districts of UP. 

 The motive behind preparing the directory of party's voluntary blood donors was to help out the needy patients\people in the time of crisis. The party in association with blood bank authorities has also planned to organize a mega voluntary blood donation camp on August 9 wherein enrolled party workers would be donating blood at hospitals. 
 
 Deputy   president,   Gupta told TOI “District unit has prepared a list of 2,500 party workers whose names have been included in the directory for voluntary blood donation”. He further added “party leaders and workers are undergoing medical test whether they are fit for voluntary blood donation or not? 
 
 He claimed that each district of state has been preparing a list of 2500 voluntary blood donors and the donors would be offering their services when required by the blood bank officials. 
 
 Gupta, meanwhile, said that its a social responsibility campaign and party workers, apart from party activities and meetings, would also be connecting with masses through noble means. 
 
 Interestingly, Allahabad BJP leadership in association with District Aids Prevention & Control Unit (DAPCU) authorities have chalked out a strategy for mega voluntary blood donation camp to be held on August 9. 
 
 District Programme Manager (DAPCU), Dr.   told TOI “Officials are completing all sorts of formalities for the mega blood donation camp and preparations including tests are also being conducted”. He added “Once we get the list of voluntary blood donors from an organisation, it would surely help the authorities concerned to call upon the donors when required”. 
 
 Moreover, workers enrolled for voluntary blood donations are being asked for necessary tests before blood donation. A senior BJP leader quipped “apart from politics, we are connecting with masses and voluntary blood donation is the best novel job when you can save the life of a needy person'.
 
