AHMEDABAD : Officials of the   of the directorate of revenue intelligence (DRI) on Friday said that a city-based firm and its sister concern, engaged in the import of pesticides and insecticides, had evaded customs duty to the tune of Rs 4 crore.

 The firms were identified as Star Chemicals and its sister concern  , with offices at University Plaza near  . 
 
 The DRI arrested Rahul Dayal, the proprietor of Star Chemicals and a partner in Star Enterprises, on Thursday and produced him before the court of the additional chief metropolitan magistrate, which sent him to judicial custody.
 
 A senior DRI official said, “Specific intelligence was received by DRI Ahmedabad that   have been illegally importing technical grade insecticides and pesticides by falsely declaring them as organic chemicals, fertilizers and pigments in import documents submitted to customs at the   in Ahmedabad. Based on these intelligence inputs, searches were conducted by DRI officers at the official premises of the importer and its buyer in Ahmedabad.”
 
 A DRI official said the agency had also recovered incriminating documents which revealed that the firms have been importing emamectin technical, abamectin technical, chlorantraniliprole technical (pesticides) and azoxystrobin technical (a herbicide) by falsely declaring them to be anionic polyacrylamide, calcium stearate, chitosan powder, fulvic acid, pigment yellow, polyelectrolyte anionic and super absorbent polymer.
 
 Scrutiny of the recovered documents revealed that they were undervaluing the imports, declaring only 4% to 6.5% of the actual value, to evade the applicable customs duty. By such misclassification and undervaluation, they evaded customs duty of approximately Rs 4 crore, the official added.
 
 “According to Section 9 of the Insecticides Act, 1968, any person desiring to import or manufacture insecticide should obtain a registration certificate from the registration committee of the Central Insecticides Board. Star Chemicals and Star Enterprise have been importing pesticides and insecticides without these registration certificate,” said officials.
 
 Dayal admitted in his statement that they have been importing pesticides and insecticides by resorting to false declarations, misclassifications, undervaluation and without the registration certificate, said officials, adding that further investigation is under way.
 
