CHENNAI: A three-and-a-half-year-old boy has gone missing from   and Hospital where he went on Wednesday morning with his mother, police said.

 The boy, who police identified as  , was in his school uniform with his mother  .
 Banu, who had been coming to the hospital to treat a thyroid problem, told police she walked in at 9.55am. Her sons Mohammad Jaffer, 5, and Asif, her sisters Fousiya Banu and Amreena and Reshma, a relative, were with her.
 
 After about an hour, she left the others on the ground floor and walked up to the first floor to get an out- patient slip. Asif was in her arms. "When I got to counter 3, I put my son on the floor. I got the slip and turned to Asif but he was not there," Banu said later, tears rolling down her cheeks.
 Banu immediately made inquiries with people in the queue in Hindi and Tamil.
 
 One person said she had seen a woman walking out with a boy. There was no security camera near where the boy disappeared.
 Banu told her husband Farhatullah, who works in a meat shop in Nungambakkam, that their child was missing and he arrived at the spot. Police said the incident took place around 11am.
 
 Washermenpet deputy commissioner of police S Jayakumar and inspector S Jawahar arrived. They took Banu and her family members to the cabin of dean Ponnambalam Namasivayam where the CCTV footage were played back and verified.
 
 Banu said policemen did not show any urgency in tracing the child. "They say they can pursue the case only after verifying the veracity of my complaint. This gives a lot of time for the culprit to vanish."
 Her husband Farhatullah echoed her views, adding, "There is no safety for people visiting the hospital."
 
 Dr Namasivayam admitted that there was no CCTV cameras on the first floor from where the boy disappeared. "There are about 100 cameras in all corridors and entry and exit points. We have about 50 private security personnel to monitor the movements of people inside. We plan to put up banners all over the hospital cautioning parents to keep their wards safe."
 
 He added that the hospital staff were cooperating with the investigators.
 
 A senior police officer said three special teams of police personnel had been assigned to sift through the security camera footage recovered from the hospital.
 
