INDORE: The Indore bench of   high court on Thursday directed a CBI probe into why an FIR was not registered against the Vijay Nagar policemen accused of beating up Army jawans outside a bar in September 2015. The bench, comprising Justice P K Jaiswal and Justice Virendra Singh, ordered that the case diary be sealed and handed over to CBI along with all other case-related documents for a central investigation.

 The incident had occurred on September 9, 2015, when Vijay Nagar   officers Vipul Shrivastav, Chhatrapal Singh Solanki and G D   allegedly engaged in a brawl with Army jawans outside a bar in the police station’s jurisdiction. The Army jawans were injured so badly that they had to undergo prolonged treatment, say sources.
 
 In retaliation, around 100 Army jawans stormed Vijay Nagar police station at dawn the next day, vandalized it and allegedly beat up police officers. The Armymen faced a court of inquiry and summons were issued to the police officers as well. Police registered a case against the jawans for allegedly vandalizing the thana and injuring six police officers, including a woman, and presented a challan in trial court.
 
 Later that month, Indorean   filed a petition through advocate   seeking to know why an FIR hadn’t been registered against the accused cops. Police replied that no complainant had approached them for it. Asked why police did not comply with the summons issued by the Army Court, the policemen said they were “scared that the Armymen might take the law in their hands”.
 
 The ministry of defence in its reply told the court that senior Army officers had sent several representations to Vijay Nagar police officials and their higher-ups to register a case against town inspector Shrivastav and other police personnel for beating up jawans but it wasn’t done. Meanwhile, a petition was moved by the defence ministry in high court seeking to transfer the case to Army Court. The court allowed this and ordered that the case diary be sent there. 
 
