MOHALI: Seerat Kaur has claimed that she shot dead her husband Ekam Singh Dhillon as he used to assault her and denied she was having an affair, police said on Monday after interrogating her during her remand even as it failed to arrest her mother Jaswinder Kaur and brother   in the case.

 DSP Alam Vijay said, “Seerat said the only reason behind killing Ekam was that he used to beat her up and demand money for living a luxurious life.” Her brother used to give her money every month for daily expenses. “Whenever the amount fell short, Ekam used to beat her up and demand more money,” Seerat told the police.
 
 Police sources said Ekam and Seerat were also involved in a scam in 2011 and had tried their hand in different businesses. Ekam was first into stone crushing business but it was shut down. He later opened an eating joint in Sector 39. He had sold the stone crushing machine for Rs 25 lakh and was planning to invest the money to open a liquor vend in Mohali.
 
 On the other hand, Ekam’s father Jaspal Singh Dhillon said Ekam had purchased new BMW car and registered it in the name of his mother-in-law. He owned commercial property in Mullanpur worth Rs 5 crore, which was transferred in the name of his mother in law. He owned two flats in Gurgaon from which he was earning Rs 60,000 rent,” Jaspal Singh said.
 
 Seerat Kaur is the niece of former   from Sardulgarh, Ajit Inder Singh Mofer. He had brought her up after her father died when she was 7 years old.
 
 
 
 
 Seerat Kaur told a local court on Monday that when she pulled the trigger to kill her husband Ekam Singh Dhillon, her brother Vinay Partap Singh and his friend Hagar Singh were present in the house. 
 
 Seerat said the other two accused helped her in cleaning the evidence. They also helped her stuff the body in a suitcase. The two left and later a woman friend of Seerat helped her to drag the body of Ekam from the first-floor house to the car. 
 
 Police sources said Seerat Kaur after leaving the house in Phase 3B1 first went to   in the same area. She took an auto rickshaw and came to Chandigarh. She kept on roaming on the roads. Police managed to find out about her location and arrested her
 
 Seerat was not carrying any cell phone with her when she was arrested 
 
 Police party on Monday reached Amritsar to arrest Seerat’s mother Jaswinder and Vinay Partap but to no avail
 
 
 
 Seerat Kaur claimed her husband had been assaulting her for past six years. Why did she not report the matter to the police?
 
 Why she kept a licensed pistol with her? 
 
 Was Seerat having illicit relations with friends of Ekam?
 
