The city’s significant Goan and Mangalorean communities don’t just love their food and festivities (think sorpotel and pork bafat; the carnival or  , or the Monti Fest, and all things alike). They also love their music, theatre and films. And while they’ve always enjoyed   shows visiting the city, they’re always up for more!

 Tiatr's (a popular form of Konkani theatre; the word tiatr comes from the Portuguese word for theatre, teatro) prince charming, the legendary artiste Prince Jacob, needs no introduction, but his legion of fans in the city will be delighted to know that he’s coming to town with his 63rd production, Aao Ja-o Goa Tumhara. The perfect treat to celebrate 125 years of tiatrs — the musical theatre tradition that’s often considered the numero uno of family entertainment, this brand new Jacob production will have its debut show in the city today at 6.30 pm.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Talking about the play, the veteran artiste, who has been into tiatrs for over 32 years now, says, “This play talks about a pertinent issue we’re facing in Goa. Youngsters of the land are migrating to other places in search of opportunities, and other communities are making the place their home. In the midst of all this, there’s the constant question about what will happen to the culture of Goa. Who will keep it alive? It is a call to take part and take pride in the process.” While the subject might be very contemporary, the play, like every much-loved tiatr and Jacob production, will entail humour, song and dance, courtesy a six-piece live band that’s part of the troupe of 25. 
 
 But that’s not all. The Konkani film,   (Game of Fate), will be screened on August 6, at the Papal Seminary Auditorium, Ramwadi. Directed by Bhojpuri film director Harry Fernandes, the film talks about Johnson who is in love with Sophia. But to keep his promise to his mother Irene, he marries Cynthi, while hiding it from Sophia. But what happens when Johnson flies to Dubai on work and Cynthi comes to Mumbai, meets Sophia and becomes friends, unaware of her relationship with Johnson? 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The film is being brought to the city by the   (MCA) Pune. Patrick Dsouza, the association president, says, “There are more than 5000 Konkani-speaking people in Pune. Hence, we decided to get this entertaining film to the city and give them something beyond the tiatrs and dramas they’re used to.” Noshibacho Khell stars Ester Noronha, an alumnus of Symbiosis.
 
 
 
 - Aao Ja-o Goa Tumhara (tiatr) - July 21, at  , 6.30 pm
 - Noshibacho Khell (Konkani film) - August 6, at Papal Seminary Auditorium, 4.30 pm
 
