Madurai: Keeping in line with late President Abdul Kalam’s philosophy on the importance of maintaining the environment, an NGO ‘Agni Siragugal’ named after his famous autobiography has strewn about 3,000 seed bombs for a distance of 135km with a hope that the trees growing out from them would enhance the green coverage of the region.

 Secretary of the organisation, A Arockiadas, said, “We believe that the nation would prosper if education and environment are protected as our late leader said, and we work on the same principles.” 
 
 There are many working men in the organisation and also a youth wing in which students of colleges and schools have enrolled themselves. 
 
 Since its inception on January 29, this year, members of the organisation have distributed many saplings and planted and taken care of 450 in the two tanks in their village. As they water them everyday these saplings have started to grow into young trees.
 
 One of the first things that they did after becoming operational was to revamp an unused municipality community hall in Senjai, their village on the Karaikudi-Devakottai road, as it had become a haven for anti-social elements. As soon as they renovated the building they conducted a free general medical camp. Now, the hall is good enough to hold small functions for a nominal rent of Rs 2,000.
 
 Now, in order to make the second death anniversary of Kalam more meaningful and manufactured the ‘seed bombs’ by mixing seeds of perennial trees like neem, pungai and tamarind with red soil, cow dung and vermicompost. Each bomb contains about three seeds and it is hoped that at least one of them would sprout and grow into a tree under favourable conditions. 
 
 Fifty of the members had gone on 25 two-wheelers and thrown the seed bombs for a stretch of 135km from Karaikudi to Rameswaram on Monday and Tuesday.
 
 “Even if half of these seed bombs germinate and grow, the region which is otherwise dry and barren would become lush green,” he said. They propose to conduct a blood donation camp and also inaugurate a library in Abdul Kalam’s name on July 27.
 
 
