HYDERABAD: Stressing on an independent identity for the fledgling state,   MP Kalvakuntla Kavitha says her ambition is to revive the   identity and hand it over to the next generation. Towards that end, her first mission is to take steps to protect the Telugu mother tongue.

 In a free-wheeling interview with TOI, Kavitha said that after the successful campaign `Sistersforchange' (in which sisters were encouraged to gift helmets to their brothers on Rakshabandhan), she now wants to focus on spreading the message of protecting the mother tongue. Close on the heels of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao's decision to implement Telugu as a compulsory subject from class 1to 12 in all schools in the state, Kavitha said her organisation `Telangna Jagruti' would take up the responsibility of spreading the message.
 
 “Telangana has a rich history of over 1,000 years and we need to revive its past glory. At a time when India is on the fast track to becoming a developed country , the need for a strong cultural and linguistic background is all the more vital. No country or state should hesitate to claim its cultural and linguistic roots. Thanks to the efforts made by us to promote Bathukamma, every person in Telangana has begun to identify with the floral festival,“ the Nizamabad MP said.
 
 Bathukamma, now the Te langana state festival, made it to the Guinness Book of World Records with 9,292 women participating in a ceremony at LB Stadium in the city last year, she said. Telangana Jagruti is now planning to better the record with more participants this year. For Kavitha, Bathukamma is the cultural avenue to fortify the Telangana identity, which is why , in contrast to her father and brother who are actively engaged in political activity , she chose this path.
 
 Explaining the need to improve skills of rural women to bring transformation in society, Kavitha pointed out that her efforts to set up skill development centres across the state, particularly for women, have paid rich dividends, with a large number of women-owned units doing well in the districts. “I have identified about 10 important issues that require immediate attention, including rehabilitation of gudumba victims, anti-smoking and liquor campaign, helmet wearing etc,“ she said.
 
 Explaining the success of the `Sistersforchange' campaign, Kavitha said it started with her gifting a helmet to her brother, minister  . “The campaign has now reached other states, with the Gujarat government even amending the laws on wearing helmets. Apart from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, badminton stars Saina Nehwal and Gutta Jwala, and Indian women's cricket team captain Mithali Raj have pledged their support to the cause,“ she said.
 
 Asked about future political plans, Kavitha said TRS president and her father Chandrasekhar Rao would decide in what way she can contribute best to the state. On the TRS joining the Union cabinet, she said the party would decide what is good for state.
 
 “We have excellent relations with the NDA government. KCR wants cordial ties with all neighbours and the Centre. Without being a partner of the NDA, our CM has been able to get what the state is eligible and due,“ she added.
 
