KOHIMA: Christian-dominated Nagaland has not taken kindly to RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat's call to enforce a countrywide ban on cow slaughter. 

  Though the state government has officially not reacted to the statement, many senior government officials here said it is "impossible" to impose the ban in the state. In fact, spokesperson of the ruling Naga People's Front (NPF), which is a BJP ally,  , said the party respects the religious sentiments of each and every individual, but does not subscribe to the idea of imposing a ban on citizens. "If India believes in unity in diversity, it should tolerate and respect the culture, traditions and religious practices, including food habits, of all communities in the country," he said. 
 
  With an eye on the 2018 assembly elections, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya told the media in Dimapur that the ban on beef is not on the BJP agenda and that banning beef is solely the state government's prerogative. General secretary of  , a nascent political party in the state,  , said beef consumption cannot be banned in the state, but its supply from BJP-ruled states like Assam or Manipur can be stopped, which would turn the matter into an "indirect ban". 
 
  Besides political parties, the statement has drawn ire from the people in the state as well. A clergyman, Zhau Sanchu, working as an associate pastor of Christian Revival Church, Sovima, said, "Religion is everyone's own priority. As long as I am not harming my religion in consuming or selling it, I am fine with beef. India has a beautiful set of religions. This beauty should not be darkened by major religious leaders." 
 
  Mincing no words, noted educationist Hovithal Sothu, currently deputy director of the Administrative Training Institute, condemned the statement and said Hindus should not think that they were the only group of people existing. "Just because they are the majority in India doesn't mean that they can take away the freedom of other minority groups," he said. Sothu added that the Constitution calls India secular and the RSS has no right to impose its thoughts and ideology on others, least of all try to torture and annihilate those who don't toe their line of thought. This way, it will be difficult for India to exist as a country, he further said. 
 
  Shocked at the "overlapping" of religious and political affairs in the nation, Mamang H Khongsai, a singer, said, "Beef ban is a religious affair while administration of a nation is a political affair. I don't understand how it could be connected," adding, "The overlap can turn fatal." 
 
  Many used social media to vent their anger. While someone said such a ban was "impossible", a harsher reaction was, "Naga BJPs should self ex-communicate themselves and go to UP to start building   at Ayodhya." 
 
