CHANDIGARH:   government has granted a year’s extension to the commission of inquiry headed by Justice Mehtab Singh   (retd.) reviewing the false cases and   registered across the state in the last 10 years during SAD-BJP regime.

 The two member commission, also comprising retired district and session judge BS Mehandiratta, was constituted by the Captain Amarinder Singh-led Congress government on April 5 for an initial term of six months. It has received around 4,200 complaints alleging false registration of cases against complainant in the last 10 years. Till now, the commission has submitted two interim reports to the government.
 
 Ensuring implementation of the commission’s interim reports, the state home department had earlier this month directed the DGP to take action against erring police officials as per the recommendation of the commission. The DGP has also been asked to take action against those complainants involved in registering false cases.
 
 “It would take some time to take action on the commission’s recommendations since a proper procedure need to be followed to take disciplinary action against the police officials. There is also a recommendation to dismiss a DSP,” said a senior officer of the home department.
 
 The commission had submitted its first interim report to the chief minister on August 23 after examining 178 cases. A recommendation was also made for the cancellation of nine FIRs found falsely registered against the police officers and a few sarpanches. Dismissal of DSP Gurmit Singh was also recommended by the commission for a false case registered at police station Sadar Khanna at his behest.
 
 Meanwhile, Punjab police have themselves submitted before the commission of enquiry that as many as 79 FIRs registered in   district during the 10-year SAD-BJP rule were false. Bathinda is the parliamentary constituency of SAD leader and Union food processing minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal.
 
 The second interim report was submitted by the commission on September 19 recommending cancellation of 47 FIRs found falsely registered across Punjab. It was also recommended to recover compensation amount to be paid to the victims of the false cases from at least 12 police officials. As per Justice Gill (retd.), the commission is likely to submit its third interim report to the state government on October 20.
 
