GUNTUR: In a   that created a sensation in the city on Sunday, a   exactly 45 days after the sudden death of their lone school-going son, here on Sunday, which coincided with  . According to sources, the couple have taken the extreme step with the belief to meet their deceased son in heaven. The mentally-disturbed couple had virtually remained cut off from relatives and friends for the past two weeks after the death of their son and finally hanged themselves. 

 According to information, 14-year old  , son of Nune Chandrasekhar Rao and Naveena, was a class-IX student at a private corporate high school located on the outskirts of the city. The boy, who was pursuing his studies while living in a hostel run by the school, reportedly suffered from a viral fever for about a week in November, 2016. The school management informed the parents about his ill health only after his condition deteriorated and he was almost on the death bed. 
 
 The boy succumbed to the fever following a steep fall in his WBC count on November, 22. Apparently rattled by the loss of their only son, the parents alleged that negligence of the school management had caused the death. 
 
 The police registered a case against the principal and the staff of the school under Section 304-A but delayed taking any action allegedly due to pressure from the top. Chandrasekhar Rao regularly met the police in the last one-and-a-half month and confronted them on their inaction in the case. Although the police claimed to have interrogated the principal and the school staff, they desisted from taking action citing delay in getting the FSL report. 
 
 Already undergoing mental trauma after loss of their son, the Chandrasekhar couple went into a depression with the school management going punished. This is said to have driven them to take a decision to give up their lives. They stopped talking to friends and neighbours for two weeks before their death and waited for the 'Vaikunta Ekadasi' to end their lives. Sources said that the couple took a bath early in the morning and offered prayers to all the Gods at their home before hanging themselves from a ceiling fan. Guntur (urban) SP Sarvasreshta Tripati denied any delay in investigation of the case. "We are waiting for the FSL report to go ahead in the case. Unfortunately, the couple ended their lives as they were depressed after losing their son," said SP. 
 
 Pattabhipuram inspector Koteswara Rao said that a case under 176 of IPC (death occurring under suspicious circumstances) was registered. Meanwhile, opposition parties staged a dharna in front of the Pattabhipuram police station demanding action against the police. We are waiting for the FSL report to go ahead in the case. Unfortunately, the couple ended their lives as they were depressed after losing their son
 
 
