If you need a lot of   and   in your system to get you through your day, here’s some good news. The prices of tea and coffee are set to come down thanks to the new   or goods and services tax regime that will roll out from July 1.

 The GST rates on tea, coffee (other than instant coffee),   powder and   will be much lesser than the prevailing taxes, the   said in a statement on Thursday. GST rates on most products were finalised by a council of state finance ministers in Srinagar last week.
 
 "Tea and coffee attract nil central excise duty and VAT (value-added tax) rate of 5 per cent. Considering embedded taxes in production of tea and coffee and the incidence on account of CST (central sales tax), octroi and entry tax, the present total tax works out to more than 7 per cent," the statement said.
 The proposed GST rate for tea and coffee (other than instant coffee) is 5 per cent down from 7 per cent that’s currently levied (the various taxes included).
 
 The sugar and milk powder that you may like in your cup of tea or coffee is also set to get cheaper owing to the GST regime. Currently, sugar attracts specific central excise duty of Rs 71 per quintal plus a cess of Rs 124, which translates into ad valorem rate of more than 6 per cent. If CST, octroi, and entry tax are factored in, the total incidence works out to more than 8 per cent.
 
 "As against this, the proposed GST rate on sugar is only 5 per cent, i.e. 3 per cent less than the present incidence of taxes," the ministry said.
 
 Milk powder attracts nil central excise duty and 5 per cent VAT. The embedded taxes in production of milk powder and the incidence on account of CST, octroi, and entry tax work out to more than 7 per cent. Compared to this, the proposed GST on milk powder is 5 per cent.
 
 So go ahead and have an extra cup or two.
 
 GST, touted as the single biggest tax reform since India’s independence in 1947, will eliminate the various central and state taxes that are levied on products and services currently bringing India under a single tax regime. GST is also expected to add 2 per cent to the country’s GDP or gross domestic product.
 
 The GST Council has fixed a four-tier structure for taxation of goods and services with slabs of five, 12, 18 and 28 per cent. Educational services and healthcare have been exempt from the purview of GST.
  
 (With Agency inputs)
