NEW DELHI: Nowhere else in the world’s cities except perhaps in Delhi does “development of infrastructure” lead to damaged roads. But while ironical, this is actually a fact in India’s capital. Digging up the   — ‘road cutting’ in local parlance — leaves them the worse after the act, with the diggers neglecting the steps required to have them restored for public use.

 Bodies such as MTNL, Indraprastha Gas Limited,   and the power discoms are permitted to dig into roads to lay or repair their pipelines, cables and other underground networks. They then pay the three municipal corporations and   to restore them to motorable condition. But prompt rehabilitation is a chancy affair. As Aditya Kapoor of Govindpuri pointed out,   there has been lying belly up for the past two months and no one seems interested in putting it back into usable shape.
 
 The ground reality contradicts the data from the civic bodies that show road restoration expenses declining steadily in the five years since 2012. From Rs 32 crore under this head in 2012-13, the amount spent by the north corporation dipped to Rs 4.78 crore last year. EDMC similarly showed a steep fall to Rs 2.75 crore last year.
 
 “As soon as a road is repaired, which itself is a rare occurrence, it is dug up by one agency or the other,” grumbled Chetan Sharma, chairman of GK2 Complex RWAs. “What follows then is a total lack of coordination among the various agencies entrusted with rehabilitation work, causing inconvenience and wastage of taxpayers’ money.”
 
  Many RWA representatives are incredulous that in the networked 21st century, these agencies are unable to coordinate their efforts. Delhi Jal Board, an EDMC official alleged “neither seeks permission to dig nor gives us the money for restoration work”. 
 
 Jitender Chaudhary, chairman of the standing committee in EDMC, elaborated on the problem of coordination. “There is a communication gap among the multiple departments involved,” he said. “To overhaul the system, we are bringing in policy changes. Till we charged for road cutting after an estimate was worked out. Now, instead of accepting a one-time payment, we will fix a 10-year rent rate and receive yearly charges.”
 
 In a multi-agency meeting, including the civic bodies, lieutenant governor Anil Baijal recently proposed a standard operating procedure that included online clearance for road cutting and the necessary requirements for restoration afterwards. 
 
 Baijal directed the departments involved to put details of road-cutting schedules in the public domain and to strictly monitor the pre- and post-digging activities. He also advised road cutters with underground equipment to ensure that their requirements did not hamper the progress of others engaged in carrying out under-earth work.
 
 
