Speaking to Mirror earlier this year (January 28) Manisha had spoken about her plans to write a book. “I want to teach people how to live a holistic life. I'm obsessed with being healthy, constantly reading, researching and sharing my knowledge with others. My book will not be an autobiography but my reflections on life and films. When I was unwell I made lots of notes,“ she had revealed. Now, Mirror has learnt that the   is collaborating on a book with another cancer survivor. According to a source, she's been in talks with a multinational publishing house since last year and the book is expected to be ready by the year end. “Having defeated the Big C, she wants to help others by sharing her journey and encouraging them to remain positive,“ adds the source.

  
  
 Interestingly, her upcoming film, 'Dear Maya', is about finding hope. "After listening to the script, she sent me a message saying that she loved it and wanted to be a part of the film. I needed someone who can portray the different shades of life -happy and dark and everything in between. Manisha is a brilliant actress and she's been our support system all through," the film's debutante director,  , had said.
 
 When Mirror reached out to Manisha she did not wish to divulge details on this hush-hush project but did not deny the news either. The actress is currently filming the   biopic in which she plays   who after a spirited fight succumbed to cancer. In another interview to Mirror (August 4, 2015), the actress had revealed that she has given up alcohol and non-vegetarian food, has been reading up on Ayurveda and Naturopathy, working towards spreading cancer awareness and assuring people that if detected in time, it is curable.She has faced the disease with strength and become an inspirational figure today.
 
 Back in 2015, the woman who at 45 still looks like a dream, had admitted that cancer had taught her to value every moment. “Lisa Ray (another cancer survivor) urges that we laugh as much as we can now and when it's time, go with dignity.There's a sense of pathos knowing you can die at any moment. That's why it's important to make the most of the time you have. Cancer teaches you to appreciate life and its miracles,“ she had asserted.
 
 Manisha has acknowledged that cancer has changed her as a person, admitting that little things would shake her up in the past. She weeps and screams even today, but then the notes she made while recovering tell her how much she's been through and she moves on without wallowing in self pity. “Anything which is not good for the mind, body and soul, I let go,“ she had shared.
 
 One thing is for sure, Manisha's book will not be about despair, it'll be about finding light in darkness in life in death.
 
  
  
 
 
 
