KOTTAYAM: A Malayali woman, who works as a nurse in  , was reportedly stabbed by an unknown person on Tuesday and is now undergoing treatment at the Farwaniya Hospital there.

 Gopika Biju, hailing from Kollad here, was returning home around 8.30 in the morning after her night shift at Kuwait's AlJahra Hospital.When she reached the corridor of her apartment, an unknown person entered the building and tried to snatch her hand bag. Her relatives say that she was stabbed when she tried to stop the person from robbing her.
 
 The attacker fled the scene, when Gopika raised an alarm. She was rushed to the hospital immediately where she had to undergo an emergency surgery .
 
 Meanwhile, the Indian mission there has taken up the incident with authorities.External affairs minister Sushma Swaraj said in her tweet, “I was informed about the stabbing of Gopika, an Indian national from Kottayam.I asked for an immediate report and we have complete details of the unfortunate incident.“
 
 She said the embassy has taken up the matter at the highest level in Kuwait to ensure safety and security of Indian nationals. She also wished Gopika a speedy recovery .
 
 Repeated cases of gold smuggling, Indians asked to follow customs rules Jeddah:
 
 Following repeated arrests for attempted gold smuggling at Indian airports, Indian consul general   has released an official statement reminding Indian nationals to follow customs rules.
 
 Last week, three passengers were arrested in Mumbai airport in separate incidents for trying to smuggle a total of 7.2 kg of gold.
 
 In the first case, a woman and her accomplice had shaped 4.2kg of gold into hooks for supporting old trousers and painted them silver.In another case, the air customs intelligence unit stopped a man with a steel roller, inside which they discovered bars of gold weighing three kilograms.
 
 Details regarding the rules of the customs department are available at their website and at all airports in India, reminded Sheikh.
 
 Two Malayali youths return home Dammam:
 
 Two Malayali youths, who were declared huroub (runaway) by their sponsors, have returned to their homes with the help of the Indian embassy .
 
 Jijesh, hailing from Mattanur in Kannur, was employed as a heavy machinery driver. Though Jijesh was offered SR 1500 as salary , he was not paid regularly . Following this, Jijesh filed a case at the labour court here. The sponsor, on knowing this, declared him a runaway .
 
 Another Malayali youth, Sanil also met with the same fate. He too is from Kannur and had worked at a company here for 22 months.
 
 Like Jijesh, he was also not paid his salary and eventually escaped from the place.His sponsor also declared him a huroub.
 
 Both of them sought help from the Indian embassy in Riyadh. The diplomatic mission made arrangements for their travel through the deportation cell here.
 
