NAGPUR: Yoga guru-cum-consumer goods magnate Baba Ramdev, now rebranded as  , is out touring cities to meet Patanjali Group dealers. At a city meet on Tuesday, along with tips on increasing sales and other business plans, Baba also delivered long sermons on patriotism. Dealers were told how working for Patanjali is service to the country.

 Ramdev specifically told the media to address him as ‘Ramdev Maharaj’. He insisted that he had always gone by this name, but people had started calling him Ramdev Baba.
 
 The meeting, which lasted over eight hours, and ran till late in the evening, was attended by over 100 dealers of Patanjali from entire Vidarbha. The businessmen were told about their duty towards the country, and how it could be achieved by working with the group.
 
 “Ramdev told us that being dealers of Patanjali does not mean merely doing any business. It’s a national cause against foreign businesses, who take away the profits from India. He stressed Patanjali is not a business concern run by a godman, but it’s a mission to build the nation,” said one of the dealers present at the meeting.
 
 The Swadeshi session of the meeting lasted for nearly four hours. The dealers were also told about the importance of Sanskrit, its origin and importance of Indian culture, said dealers who interacted with TOI between the sessions. The meeting remained a closed door affair otherwise.
 
 Ramdev will be holding a similar session in Pune. Patanjali plans to take its business to Rs20,000 crore before 2020, and the meetings were held to discuss the path ahead, said an insider.
 
 “We plan to emerge as the biggest FMCG company by 2020 and Nagpur will have the biggest plant catering to exports also. The project at Mihan-SEZ will be started in a year,” Ramdev told TOI during a break in between the conference.
 
 On the meeting with dealers, he said the company needs to strengthen its retail chain network for which feedback is being taken from the ground level. Patanjali has already raised its production capacity to Rs1 lakh crore, he said.
 
 Earlier, talking to the media, he refuted claims that Patanjali Group’s business has grown substantially during BJP regime. He said, “The business was progressing at a similar pace even earlier. I am not affiliated to any government.” He called himself ‘a-sarkari’ and not ‘sarkari’.
 
 Patanjali also plans to increase its procurement from state’s farmers three time to Rs3,000 crore, he said, even while admitting that the Mihan project was taking time because the company is taking due legal course for all works.
 
 The common issue raised by dealers was lack of enough supply from the company. “There is a demand for Patanjali products but shortage is a major problem. For example, out of 10 only 3 to 4 items are available at any given point of time,” said a dealer. On this, Ramdev assured that production would be jacked up soon, he said.
 
 A dealer from Wardha said Ramdev was told that there needs to be better inventory management. There have been several instances when the master dealers have supplied goods which are due for expiry soon. The expired goods are not taken back too, he said. “These are minor issues and are being sorted out,” added another dealer.
 
 Earlier, talking to newspersons, Ramdev Maharaj said people should be aware of fake godmen. “It can be easily judged from his lifestyle,” he said referring to Baba Ram Rahim of Dera Sacha Sauda. He said people should not get carried away by superstition.
 
 On Congress leader Digvijay Singh’s tweet that his name should have been in the list of 14 fake godmen released by sadhus, Baba said Singh’s stature and comments were not worth responding to.
 
