WASHINGTON:   was a Methodist who practised Hatha Yoga every day and prayed in Arabic five times a day. Called the "Ambassador to the world's religions,'' he said he believed in the best of all faiths. His 97-year-journey involved traveling the world visiting ashrams and temples, monasteries and mosques, synagogues and gurdwaras, studying with swamis and gurus, lamas and monks, maulvis and fakirs, priests and pontiffs.

 His favorite prayer, he said, was written by a 9-year-old boy whose mother had found it scribbled on a piece of paper beside his bed. “Dear God,'' it said, “I'm doing the best I can.'' On Friday, the great humanist and perennialist passed on in the final hours of 2016 at a hospice in California, after doing the best he could to promote inter-faith respect and harmony.
 
 One of the greatest historians of religion and philosophy, he was a spiritual adventurer whose inter-faith life introduced American students and workaday Americans­ to the Bhagavad Gita, the Dhammapada, and the Five Pillars of Islam through documentaries and writings, including “The Religions of Man'' (1958), a standard collegiate textbook for comparative religion classes for nearly half a century now.
 
 His spiritual fount was India and its religions, particularly Vedanta of Hinduism, after which he embraced   and Sufi Islam. He went to distant dargas, mountainside monastaries, and remote ashrams in his quest.
 
 Yet, he remained in the Methodist faith (he was born in China to Methodist missionaries and lived there till he was 17), praising it for its capaciousness, and pointing out that the pastor at his church is a lesbian and she and her baby were part of the congregation.
 
 He said his approach to religions and his journey of discovery did not mean he was saying to goodbye to anything; he was just moving to a new idiom for expressing the same basic truths.
 
 India ­and its spiritual richness ­ infused and animated his life. Long after he studied and practised Vedanta under Swami Satprakashananda in  , Missouri, (under the influence of, and with a referral from Aldoux Huxley), after gradua ting from the  , he visited India in the late 1950s. “When I read the Upanishads, which are part of Vedanta, I found a profundity of worldview that made my Christianity seem like third grade,'' he had said, after his encounters with the Vedanta gurus. Now, the real India blew him away .
 
 “I remember my first visit as if it were yesterday...It was the smells that were the strangest, a blend rising from a half million cooking fires in the dusty evening air,'' he would recall later to Bill Moyers, who put him front and centre in the documentary “The Wisdom of Faith With Huston Smith,'' that captured the Smith religious adventures.
 
 “What was it that made this place, these people, so different, while, at the same time making me think `I know them. I've always known them. A part of me seems to have been here from the beginning,'' Smith said of India.
 
 Thus began an even more intense study of religions that became a journey to reconcile the best of all -Sarva Dharma Sama Bhava -underwritten by the belief in the goodness inherent in all human beings.
 
 To Moyers, he recited a poem he wrote in India: “Who could have dreamed, gazing on this willful face That India touched him more than he touched her...''
 
