THIRUNANTHAPURAM: Expectations and reality are two parallel lines for   (KSEB) each summer. But the gap between the two promises a better future on the power consumption front, helping consumers escape the summer without power restrictions. Statistics available with KSEB showed that the average power consumption in Kerala was 70 million units (mu) against the expectations that it would cross 75mu, given the harsh summer.

 Kerala’s average daily power consumption registered a gradual increase from mid-March and crossed 75mu in the first week of April. But, the surge did not last for long as consumption fell to 70mu in two days. The consumption then crossed 76mu on Tuesday and even registered a marginal increase on Wednesday last week. However, the consumption dropped to 71mu the very next day and dipped to 70mu on Friday.
 
 “So far, the power consumption is lower than what we expected. Going by the present trend, we hope that the average consumption would be 72 mu even if there is some sharp jump in the consumption on certain days,” said a senior KSEB official.
 
 As per KSEB’s preliminary calculations, the consumption would have hit 74 or 75mu each day this summer. According to senior officials, a drop in temperature and various other factors might have played an active role in bringing down the average power consumption to 70mu-level.
 
 “Earlier, the power consumption pattern during summer was almost predictable. It was taken for granted that temple festivals, school examinations, rising mercury levels and IPL cricket matches would directly impact power consumption. But, power usage during this season has proved most assumptions wrong. For example, the consumption crossed 76mu on April 4. It was no special day. The IPL season began the next day. The consumption was over 76mu on that day too. Then, it suddenly dropped to 71mu the next day. We are trying our best to analyse the consumption pattern accurately,” said a top KSEB official.
 
 Officials said KSEB would be able to provide power without restrictions this summer since a power corridor too was available outside the state. Power restrictions chances are rare, unless KSEB is forced to draw high-cost power from the Kayamkulam plant, they said.
 
