LUCKNOW: In a major decision, the UP   on Tuesday approved a   to regulate  , who, until now, have been a major cause of encroachment and traffic bottlenecks across the state. 

 UP government spokesperson and health minister Siddharthnath Singh said that committees will be formed both at palika and corporation levels. Headed by the municipal commissioner, the committee would grant permits to vendors and define a specific place where vendors can put up their stalls. Even new vendors, who are able to prove that they don’t have any other source of income, would be allowed by the committee to set up stalls, principal secretary urban development Kumar   said. 
 
 At palika level, the committee would have 10-20 members while at corporation level, the committee would have 30-40 members, Singh said. The committee, to be constituted for five years, will have   and vendors as members, among others. There will be a provision to dissolve the committee if complaints arise. A notice of three months would be given in such a case, Singh said. 
 
 Members would be elected, Kamlesh said and added that 30 rules have been framed for the smooth functioning of the committee which will be known as Nagar Path Vikray Samiti. 
 
 Earlier, Singh said that the vendors policy should have come earlier and all the more after the Union government passed an Act in this regard in 2014. 
 
 “As per the DNA of the previous governments, no new policy was formed as the same would have stopped extortion and harassment of vendors,” Singh added. 
 
 Multiple levels for stamp cases 
 
 The UP cabinet has decided to bifurcate the appellate authority for stamp-related cases in a bid to do away with backlogs. Appeals would be made before additional commissioners in stamp cases up to Rs 10 lakh, UP government spokesman and health minister Siddharthnath Singh said. Similarly, appeal would be made before divisional commissioners in cases from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 25 lakh. In cases dealing with more than Rs 25 lakh, appellate authority would be members of revenue board.
 
