NAGPUR: “The best should suffer so that the rest may prosper,” said   during his lecture on the topic ‘Arthapurna Ayushyachya Shodhat’. His lecture was a part of   organized by Hanuman Nagar Sarvajanik Utsav Mandal to mark the death anniversary of  , at Trikoni ground, Hanuman Nagar, on Wednesday. 

 Moroney said that the interpersonal relationships of the current generation are at stake because they don’t spend enough time with their families. “In fact, the young generation today getting old by 45 years, especially the youngsters who work in the IT sector, as they spend most of their working hours sitting on a chair,” he said. 
 
 Explaining the importance of satisfaction in one’s life, Moroney added, “We have money and other goods for living a life of comparative luxury, but we lack satisfaction and which creates frustration in our mind and leads to various kinds of addiction.”
 
 He gave the example of Bhutan which has one of the highest ‘Gross National Happiness Index’ in the world and lamented that in our country “Our life has turned into pieces in search of peace.”
 
 Moroney also said that the virtue of sharing was fast disappearing in the current times. “Today’s kids believe in having for themselves as much as they can. And this is the failure of our generation that we didn’t teach our kids good qualities,” he said. 
 
 After putting the question ‘Is controlling our wants the solution of achieving satisfaction’ to the audience, he said, “We can get real happiness only when we start giving without expecting anything in return.”
 
 He also said that every person must ask themselves the question, ‘Between birth and death, have we made the world a better place to live in.’
 
 Talking about the various programmes which are planned, Pramod Joshi, committee member of the mandal said, “We conduct a series of cultural programs, rallies, manache shook readings, suryanamaskar competition etc.” The programme was compèred by Kadambari Thomre. Ashutosh Ghote and Arun Deshmukh worked hard for the success of this programme.
 
