MUMBAI: Mumbai, the second most affordable city in the world for students till 2016, has dropped to the 30th position this year. New Delhi, on the other hand, ranks way higher at 15, states a report by  , compilers of the  . 

 The organization published the 2017 list of Top 100 student cities in the world in the early hours of Wednesday. 
 
 Overall, though, Mumbai and New Delhi are ranked 85 and 86, respectively. 
 
 Paris, which had topped the list since the inaugural ranking of 2012, was replaced by Montreal in Canada for the first time. London, ranked fifth last year, moved up to the third position in 2017. Melbourne, on the other hand, dropped to the fifth position from second.The Top Five cities in Asia include Seoul, Tokyo, Hong Kong, Singapore and Kyoto-Osaka-Kobe. 
 
 Where Mumbai and Delhi managed to get higher ranks was in “employer activity”. 
 
 A city’s performance is ranked on six composite indicators — affordability, desirability, student mix (international students), university ranking, employer activity and, for the first time, views of students, as in, which city would they like to study in and their willingness to continue living there.
 
  Although an official QS statement shows that Mumbai and Delhi have seen an increase in their desirability score, these cities are still at the bottom. Mumbai is placed at the 90th position and New Delhi 91th. The desirability score takes into account the quality of life, including pollution, corruption and safety.
 
 In its inaugural rankings for 2012, QS had published the positions of the Top 50 cities. Later, it began to publish rankings of 75. This year, it has expanded the list to 100.
 
 In 2013, Mumbai was ranked 61 and Delhi 69. Mumbai was ranked the second most affordable city after Kuala Lumpur in 2013. A QS statement mentions that Mumbai had remained in the second position in all its previous editions.
 
 Apoorva Palkar,   and convenor of the state’s taskforce to bring about internationalization in higher education, said, “Mumbai is increasingly seen as a preferred destination for education by foreign students despite its shortcomings. Tuition fees here are more affordable than in European institutes. However, the cost of living in the city is high. But many students are keen on coming here and the state is looking at making it a preferred destination.” The survey analyses 125 cities and publishes ranks of Top 100.
 
