PATNA: The   legislators shouted anti-government slogans in the well of legislative council on Monday to protest non-distribution of money among students under bicycle and uniform schemes and also for “depriving” children of pre-matric scholarship.
 
  BJP member Lal Babu Prasad took up the issue. Amid protests by opposition members, the council was adjourned till 2.30pm. While the opposition members kept criticising the government, state finance minister Abdul Bari Siddiqui tabled the CAG report in the House.
  
  BJP member Mangal Pandey said the situation would lead to chaos in the state and people would take to streets to protest non-disbursal of money meant for various education schemes. Talking to mediapersons after the adjournment of the House, leader of opposition in council Sushil Kumar Modi said over two crore students would be affected as four schemes – cycle yojna for Class IX students, poshak yojna for Class I to XII, pre-matric scholarship for Class I to X and sanitary napkin for the girl students of Class VII to XII – are not being properly implemented by the state government.
  
  “New academic session would begin in April, but the money for 2016-17 session has not yet reached the students. In the election year, cash was distributed among the students through camps. That year, the chief minister had also waived 75% attendance requirement to avail the benefit. However, it made 75% attendance mandatory for the students after the election. The CM is now in favour of raising the attendance limit to 85%,” Modi said.
  
  He said the government has suffered a loss of Rs 4,500 crore due to prohibition. “Attempts are being made by the government to make up for losses by putting various welfare schemes on hold,” Modi alleged.
  
  However, state education minister   claimed 90% of money has already been distributed among the students and the rest amount would be handed over to the beneficiaries by the end of this fiscal.
  
  Referring to piped water supply to all households, Modi said the state government has not allotted a single penny to the panchayats from Fifth  .
  
  The opposition also criticised the state government for its failure to make state open defecation free. Rural development minister Sharwan Kumar told the council that 6.94 lakh toilets were constructed in the state in 2016-17 against the target of 41.26 lakh toilets. He said the government would expedite the work and make   open defecation free by 2019.
