NEW DELHI: The Heritage corridor of Delhi Metro, which has been delayed by several months, may finally be commissioned in February.   Rail Corporation (DMRC) officials said that inspection for fire clearance is expected to be done in January paving the way for the safety audit.

 If the commissioner for   rail safety gives a go-ahead, the section between ITO to Kashmere Gate will be thrown open to the public within a few days, sources said.
 
 The ITO to Kashmere Gate section is the last one of the   to Kashmere Gate corridor, also called the  . The 9.37km corridor has been delayed due to “various challenges” in the construction of the Kashmere Gate Metro station.
 
 The Kashmere Gate station will be the only one in the DMRC network to have three lines intersecting there. The Red line (Rithala to  ) and Yellow line (HUDA City Centre to Samaypur Badli) are already intersecting at Kashmere Gate. With the Heritage line, there will now be three corridors available to interchange.
 
 This entirely underground section comprises four stations — Delhi Gate, Jama Masjid, Lal Qila and Kashmere Gate. Incidentally, the section was scheduled to open in October 2016 after its original deadline of December 2015 was missed.
 
 Trial runs on the section between ITO and Kashmere Gate, which measures around 5.17km, began on August 10, 2016. The stretch, though named the Heritage line, will be an extension of the presently operational Escorts Mujesar (Faridabad) to ITO corridor.
 
 “During trial runs, the interaction of the trains with physical infringements, or civil structures, is being checked to ensure that there is no blockage on the track. The entire signalling system is also being rigorously tested,” said a Delhi Metro official.
 
 In addition, the response of trains at different speeds, braking and interconnection with the operations control centre (OCC) is being monitored during the trials. The behaviour of the track system and the overhead electrification (OHE) is being checked during all the trials as well, added the official.
 
 
