NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   and US President   could have their first meeting as early as May, as both governments explore plans for Modi to travel to Washington DC.

 Modi and Trump would anyway have an opportunity to meet on the sidelines of the next G-20 summit in Hamburg, but that would be in a multilateral setting. 
 
 Sources said both governments are keen to have an early bilateral meeting. 
  after Modi called him to congratulate him on his victory. In recent weeks, 
  , which touched upon issues of importance to both countries — defence and security, economics and trade etc. 
 
 James Mattis, US defence secretary, has held his first conversation with defence minister  , while the new secretary of state Rex Tillerson spoke to Sushma Swaraj earlier this week.
 
 National security adviser Mike Flynn, who had to quit recently, had already met Ajit Doval in the early days of the Trump administration when Doval visited him in Washington. The Mattis-Parrikar conversation was keenly watched for signals on how the Trump administration might want to proceed on the defence-security relationship which has increased substantively. 
 
 An official readout of the conversation said: “Secretary Mattis and minister Parrikar affirmed their commitment to sustain the momentum on key bilateral defense efforts to include defence technology and trade initiative.” In their conversation, Sushma and Tillerson “emphasised that close and strong relations between India and the US were not only in mutual interest but also had regional and global significance. In this context, they agreed to intensify cooperation in various sectors, including defence and security, energy, and economy,” an official statement said. 
 
 As reports have come in about a 
  for high-tech professionals, India and the US have also begun quiet talks to get a better understanding of each other’s positions and ways to resolve what might become a hurdle in the relationship. 
 
 However, with domestic politics in the US becoming increasingly acrimonious, it has lent a degree of uncertainty to everything. 
 
 Addressing a geo-economic dialogue earlier this week in Mumbai, foreign secretary S Jaishankar cautioned that the 
  , but “analyse” him.
 
 The Trump phenomenon, he said, is no passing whim of US electoral politics, but part of a much larger change globally. Later this month, India will see two different congressional delegations, from both Republican and Democrat ends of the aisle visiting India. The two groups of 19 and eight congressmen will visit New Delhi and Hyderabad and Bangalore, and be possibly one of the largest congressional delegations to visit India. The congressmen will get a first hand experience of the Indian hightech industry and their activities in the US. This is in context of the three legislations introduced in the US Congress to curb entry of technology professionals.
 
