KOCHI: In a major thrust to the domestic tourism industry, for the first time now there will be direct flights from Kochi to Jaipur and Kolkata. This will open new options for the tour operators as the   Jaipur, Agra, Delhi is a hot choice among local and foreign tourists who visit Kerala. Also many tourists from West Bengal visit Kerala. 

 As per the latest summer schedule released by   (Cial), there will three direct flights from Kochi to Kolkata and three from Kolkata to Kochi that will be operated by IndiGo every week. While the overall flight traffic connecting the two cities will be 22. Go Air will connect Kochi with Jaipur directly, which is another new sector for the airport. Go Air will connect Kochi and Jaipur with six direct flight to and fro. Jaipur will also be a transit point for this flight, which will then take off for Ahmedabad and on its way back to Kochi, the flight will connect Jaipur to Cial directly.
 
 "Most of the passengers flying directly from Jaipur and Kolkata can be attributed to increase the tourist footfall more than any other factor," said airport director, Chandrakumaran Nair A.
 
 He suggested that in the last year alone domestic travel in Cial has increased by 22%.
 
 "India has the third largest market for domestic travels with US at the top and China at the second position. So this a natural progression, making full use of the market possibilities," he said.
 
 He added a lot more passengers will be wooed in as a new and convenient mode of connection is now established.
 
 Last year, 29% of the total air traffic at the Cial was attributed to domestic air traffic.
 
 Jose Dominic, CEO of   said that the direct flights from Kolkata have opened possibilities for the expansion of tourism between the eastern parts of the country and Kerala, which was strenuously connected via air and rail previously.
 
 He said, "There is a lot of scope for cultural tourism to develop between Kolkata and Kochi. Jaipur and Kochi sector will be an important one for foreign tourists, as these two cities are key players in Indian tourism. This could lead to a new tourism package, which will be well-received."
 
 "Tourist from Kolkata are mostly big spenders and the problem they usually have is that they don't have enough time to spend in Kerala as travelling to the state takes up most their time," said Joy Peter, director of   and Travels.
 
 He said the next big upgrade that Kerala tourism needs apart from the regressive alcohol policy is the establishment of direct flight connection with European destinations.
 
 "European tourist visiting Kerala usually don't have enough time to spend in the city as they mostly come via connecting flights from Bengaluru or other cities like Delhi or Mumbai, this actually starts to add to their expense. While a direct flight connecting the Europe and Kerala will be very beneficial," said Joy Peter.
 
 He suggests that a lot of potential tourists are opting Sri Lanka over Kerala because it is a cheaper destination.
 
 Cial has been holding talks with several flights, with hopes of establishing a direct flight connection between Europe and Kochi, preferably with Frankfurt or Heathrow.
 
