NEW DELHI:   lost his   in   in east Delhi to a gas explosion triggered by   during his murderous rampage on Sunday. Having regained a sense of equilibrium, Sharma said on Monday he is thankful that being civil to the disturbed man saved his life on the fateful day. 

 A day after the traumatic incident, Sharma, who has acted in Tevar, Khosla Ka Ghosla and  , among other films, said with much feeling, “Sunday could have been my last day, but by the grace of God I escaped unharmed. Rahul probably spared me because I always spoke to him politely whenever we met. Had I also been like those who paid no heed to what he said or did, probably nothing could have saved my life.” 
 
 The actor recalled seeing Matta, an ex-merchant navy man, whenever he came to Delhi to visit his mother. “I never imagined that Rahul would turn murderous, though there was definitely something odd about him, something that kept most people away from him,” said Sharma. “But he would occasionally salute me whenever I asked him how he was doing, and sometimes stand and have a long conversation with me.”
 
 Since the fire, Sharma and his wife Kiran are staying with a friend in Indirapuram. They have received numerous calls from people offering them food and clothes. Many have offered the Sharmas accommodation in their homes. “I am overwhelmed. I never knew we had so many well-wishers,” said Sharma.
 
 On Saturday, Sharma, preparing to leave for Pune for a movie premiere there on January 17, had withdrawn Rs 20,000 each from his and his son’s bank accounts to buy a few necessities. Having lost all the cash when his house was burned down by Matta, Sharma said, “I cancelled my plans to go to Pune because I neither have any money left nor do I have an identity card now.” 
 
 Making light of his tragedy, the actor quipped that when he got married he had neither furniture nor other household necessities and is in an identical situation now. “It feels like I have gone back in time. We had nothing back then, we have nothing now,” he smiled.
 
 Sharma said that he might continue with the current living arrangement till he found a house. The Ajanta Apartments residents’ welfare association has planned a meeting to see how they can help the unhoused actor.
 
 
 
 
