GURGAON:  , a popular destination for winter  , welcomed more species of winged visitors this year as compared to the last two years, but the bird count remained lower than that of the previous year, officials said.

 According to the official data, more than 25,000 migratory birds visited the park last year (2015-16). But only about 18,000 birds were spotted this year (2016-17) so far. 
 
 While sanctuary officials said that the bird count will increase in the next two months, both environmental experts and bird watchers blamed the sudden increase in air pollution level for the low count of winged visitors in the park.
 
 So far, only 200 Gadwall, common dabbling ducks that come all the way from Siberia, three to four flocks of Eurasian teal and Eurasian spoonbill, known for its spoon-like shaped beak, are staying in the park. Number of bird species, on the other hand, remained higher than that of last year. This year, birds belonging to around 73 species visited the park so far . Last year, the species count was 69.
 
 “We still have two more months. Migratory birds come in flocks. They keep visiting the park till March. Like number of species, the total count of the migratory birds is also expected to be more this year than that of last year,” said Ashok, an official at the bird sanctuary.
 
 Bird watchers said new flocks of migratory birds are unlikely to arrive after the first week of February. “Owing to climate change, we have been experiencing a rise in temperature and early arrival of summer. Arrival of new flocks of migratory birds is unlikely now,” said  , a Delhi-based birder.
 
 Experts blamed the sudden rise in pollution levels in January for the low bird count. “We noticed a decline in the count of migratory birds last year when pollution levels increased. The same pattern has been noticed this year. While the park was receiving a good number of birds until December, we have noticed a decline in the count in January,” said  , a city-based ornithologist. 
 
 
