NAGPUR: The sudden dip in temperature seems to have started taking a toll on birds, with some of them being found dead. Experts feel that many bird species, especially the juvenile ones, are susceptible to cold waves.

 On Friday morning, veteran bird expert Gopal Thosar found a dead sub-adult purple sunbird at his residence near Pratap Nagar Square. “The bird was lying on the ground below Tecoma Stans tree which is a flowering tree. Many sunbirds flock to it for nectar,” said Thosar.
 
 After about an hour, some kids found a juvenile rose-ringed parakeet lying unconscious on a nearby ground. “Its body was completely cold and we tried feeding it glucose water. We exposed it to the sunlight but the bird could not survive,” Thosar said, adding that the birds seemed to have died due to sudden low temperature.
 
 Extreme rise or drop in temperature can trigger mortality in birds, especially juveniles. “Such cases mostly go unreported but are frequent, particularly in the outskirts where temperature fluctuation is more prominent. When temperature falls suddenly, birds are unable to maintain their body temperature and go in a state of shock. The medical terminology for this is hypothermia,” said founder of Wild-CER Dr Bahar Baviskar.
 
 Ornithologist Dr Anil Pimplapure said that ‘cavity-nesters’ are more prone to mortality. “Juveniles of species like parakeet live in tree cavities. At times, they try to get out prematurely and find it difficult to cope up with extreme weather conditions as they are used to the favourable atmosphere of the cavity,” he said. 
 
 Pimplapure added that though 70-80% of bird species breed in safe season (March-August), many urban birds like parakeet, house sparrow, common myna, bulbul and laughing dove breed more than once in a year. “Since they breed in winters too, their juveniles become more prone to mortality due to low temperatures,” he said.
 
 Scientist of   (BNHS), Raju Kasambe said that featherless juveniles are most vulnerable. “Feathers help in keeping the body warm,” he added.
 
 
