The weather is perfect; the sky is that intense shade of blue that makes Vizag’s spectacular scenery look even more romantic. The light at dusk is a warm gold colour, what photographers and cinematographers call the golden hour. You begin to notice that we look better in that light. Everybody loves the winter months. It is quite extraordinary how our spirits lift during this part of the year. Folks dress better, smile more often and generally are more upbeat than any other part of the year.

 The contraction and expansion of time
 
 Last week, many of us celebrated Christmas and last night we bid goodbye to 2016 and welcomed a brand new 2017. There are different reactions to the  . Senior citizens exclaim with trepidation “last year went past so quickly!” They feel that the years roll away and new ones roll in rapid succession and there is a perception that time has inexorably speeded up. They try hard to slow down their lives, spend more time with friends, family and grandchildren. The youth on the other hand, recovering from last night’s merriment, look forward in anticipation to a momentous year of opportunities ahead. New friends, new travel plans, new adventures, a new job, an exciting new romance or a new mobile phone, awaits them this year. They can’t wait for 2017 to get going. 
 
 What we learnt in 2016
 
 For some, it has been a year of learning new things. Many of us rejoiced in making groups in WhatsApp and then exiting the group promptly when it got inundated with a thousand “good mornings” messages every day. Last year, we were bombarded with hoax messages through WhatsApp. Messages like pesticides in popular soft drinks; send messages to just two groups and your phone battery will magically recharge, Karthik will get money for eye surgery if you forward this message to 10 people, Delhi police warns not to drink Frooti for two months because a disgruntled employee dropped HIV tainted blood into the juice at the factory. There was much dodgy medical advice like how to avoid Ebola by bathing in cold water and drinking hot water. Ironically, there were also many hoaxes about WhatsApp itself. The only message that is not a hoax is “transfer Rs 500 to the author of this article and he will put in a good word for you with God”. OK - just kidding. 
 
 Where’s my money honey?
 
 With the unprecedented inconvenience caused by demonetisation, we learnt how to manage with less cash. A few of us discovered the convenience of using smartphone Apps to summon an Uber or Ola cab to our doorstep in less than ten minutes. We started using “Paytm” and “Bookmyshow” to pay for almost anything from cab rides to movie tickets to dosas from the food trucks that made their presence felt in   in   and near Waltair Club last year. Slowly we adjusted our lives to manage with the perpetual shortage of currency in our wallets. 
 
 Eventful 2016 for Vizag
 
 Last year will probably go down as the year of events. Vizag saw wave after wave of events. We were assailed with wailing sirens carrying VIPs and disrupting traffic everywhere. The year started with a forgettable  , then the hugely memorable IFR which caught the imagination of all Vizagites. Several parts of the city reaped the benefit of improved roads and a general facelift. Then there was the CII Partnership Summit, the International Sea Food Show, the   conference, the AU Alumni meet and several marathons. There was something special for the general public too – for example The Australian Chi Udaka show and the Wind Music Festival. However, despite free entry, some of these wonderful shows went empty. Though they were conceived for the general public the white sofas nearest the stage were all reserved for a few VIPs who never turned up. Entertainers who get their energy from the cheering audience in the front rows couldn’t hear or see their audience who were miles away at the back. The MC kept asking for a “loud applause” and the audience tried their best but they were just too far away. It looks like “public events” in Vizag are really not for the public. But that’s another story waiting to be told.
 
 Some notable positives
 
 Our administration had some notable successes last year. For the first time, immersion of idols between RK Beach and Park Hotel was banned. The proliferation of pandals choking our city, messing our roads and inflicting their DJ music upon us was finally controlled. Secondly, the municipal corporation has managed to keep the “showcase” parts of our city looking clean. We came in 5th among 75 cities in the Swachh Bharat Survekshan assessment. Visitors noticed this and exclaimed “Oh, Vizag is so clean!” swelling our hearts with pride. In a mature civic minded act, our corporation got ramps put on our beach road pavements making it one of the longest wheelchair friendly pavements anywhere in India. It was also the year of “ODF” meaning “Open Defecation Free”. Squatting in the open has been Vizag’s favourite past time from time immemorial. So when the administration announced in October 2016 that Vizag was ODF – well almost – Vizagites were indeed proud. Hopefully, we will never look back – I mean never look at behinds – oops! We must also acknowledge that APEPDCL our electricity utility company, gave us good quality power with very few interruptions. One great God given positive was that we were spared the cyclones last year.
 
 Think global
 
 Come to think of it, quite a bit has happened on a planetary scale since last year same time. For one, planet earth has travelled 947 million kilometres around the sun, there were 40 billion tons of CO2 released into the atmosphere and the average global temperature in April 2016 was 1.10°C above the 20th century average of 13.7°C the highest temperature departure for April since global records began in 1880. The human population of the earth rose by 83 million to an unprecedented 7.43 billion people. Happily the tiger population went up by around 800 last year – probably due to improved census methods - but many magnificent creatures like the rhino lost their numbers as they fell to poacher’s bullets. Our planet lost 130,000 square kilometres of forests last year and this shows no signs of slowing down. But these figures, however significant for the future of our planet and humanity, do not really find resonance with many as we cope with things that impact us daily. It is the first of the month, time to pay the domestic help, to shop for monthly provisions and for the upcoming Sankaranti festival. A hundred bills waiting to be paid.
 
 A helpful greeting
 
 Today you will be inundated with greetings, if you want to wish someone back the best New Year wish you can give anyone is “Happy New Year – may you always find a working ATM, with no lines and dispensing copious quantities of crisp Rs 100 notes on demand”.
 
 (The writer is an environmentalist and a social commentator. He can be reached at sohan.hatangadi@gmail.com)
 
