PATNA: The state government on Wednesday downplayed the controversy surrounding the transfer of antique items from the over eight-decade-old   to the newly constructed  .

 “There is no controversy on the transfer of a part of total items from Patna Museum. The CM will inaugurate the new museum on October 2,” said art, culture and youth department minister Krishna Kumar Rishi.
 
 He said five-day celebrations have been planned for the opening of Bihar Museum. Workshop on paintings, along with exhibition of nationally renowned painters, will be held on its premises from October 2. The famous painters whose paintings will be exhibited include Prakash Mayanti, Himmat Shah, Prabhakar Kolte and Subroto Gangopadhyaya, the minister said.
 
 The secretary of the department, Chaitanya Prasad, said both the museums belong to the state government. “Technically, some items of one museum are being transferred to the other. There is no controversy over it,” he said.
 
 Even as Bihar Museum has been put under a trust, the state government would have its representatives in the governing body and all its would be recruited as per the state government rules, Prasad said.
 
 As to the concerns about the security aspects of Bihar Museum, he said, “The security system put in place around the museum will be better than that at Patna Museum.”
 
 Prasad said Patna Museum has 43,946 listed items in its registers that are on display. “Of them, only 3,162 items, including the idol of famous Deedarganj Yakshini, are being shifted to Bihar Museum,” he said. The items to be shifted are from the prehistoric period to 1764, the Battle of Buxar. 
 
 Prasad said the items to be shifted have been duly insured and there would be no damage during their transit or installation.
 
 Both the minister and the secretary maintained that the Bihar Museum has been conceptualized to give it a pride of place, both nationally and internationally, as had been enjoyed by Patna Museum. Besides, Bihar Museum has been planned and constructed as per international standards with an audiovisual facility. 
 
 Prasad said the items would be displayed at Bihar Museum in line with their historical periodization from prehistory, ancient and medieval up to 1764 (the Battle of Buxar after which the country passed into the hands of East India Company). At Patna Museum, their display is in terms of “the medium of the item”, like all terracotta figurines have been put at one place.
 
 “Patna Museum will have items of modern and contemporary history. The government has planned further development of this museum in active consultation with experts and historians,” Prasad said. 
 
