MUMBAI: Collector (suburbs) shut down the   services of   at   recently after it was found to be running without the required licence. The club is associated with  .

 Recently, 43 hotels, including a few five-star ones in Mumbai and Pune, had to shut down their rooftop bars after the   found they were using   to serve customers right through the year.
 
 In the case of the Kamla Vihar Sports Club, too, it had an FL-4 licence, meant to host a   in a flat or at a resort. The club was running its regular perm-it room and bar on this licence.
 
 Shetty said, “I have helped develop many gardens and grounds in my constituency. Similarly, I helped Kamla Vihar Club too. But I am not associated with their daily activities. If they are conducting some illegal activities then serious action should be taken against them. But the authorities should also act against others, like the MCA (Mumbai Cricket Association) (at Kandivli) for similar violation.
 
 “If Kamla Vihar Club was running something illegally, what was the civic authority doing since years? If I am dragged into controversies pertain-ing to the club again and again, I will not think twice before taking charge of it,” Shetty said.
 
 The club has been constructed on a BMC-owned recreational ground. Under an old caretaker policy, the club management took the plot from the BMC in 1998 on a 30-year lease to maintain it. The structure was constructed with the civic body’s permission. However, the agreement makes no mention of having a permit room or serving liquor on the club’s premises.
 
 Local activist Reji Abraham said, “The club is misusing open public space and commercially exploiting the plot. They have carried out construction beyond permissible limit. My complaint regarding this issue is pending before the Lokayukta.”
 
 Several NGOs and trusts supported by politicians and builders were among those that had taken up open spaces under the caretaker policy. After sustained protests from activists, BMC started the process of taking back 216 open spaces. It regained custody of over 173 open spaces, but the action was briefly halted for the remaining spaces which were in the custody of politicians or influential builders. In the case of Kamla Vihar Sports Club and Matoshree Club on JVLR, which is associated with a Shiv Sena minister, which are not among the 216 open spaces, BMC officials expressed helplessness in taking back these spaces though they had violated the agreement conditions as they have been given on more than 30-year lease.
 
 
