NAGPUR: A   ( ) platoon is soon slated to add teeth to the existing security of  . Reason: 50 years of celebrations of   uprising.

 The rebellion movement had raised its head from Naxalbari, a village in West Bengal, in 1967 before spreading out in rest of the country. With intelligence inputs of rebels trying to capitalize on the occasion to boost the movement, security agencies across the country are gearing up to thwart the Naxalites in their endeavour to launch a comeback.
 
 A high-level meeting, involving several security and intelligence units, was convened at the office of city police commissioner on Monday to thwart the possible activities of Naxalites during this phase, when the rebels are trying to revamp their movement in a bid to revive memories of the five-decade old struggle.
 
 As measures were discussed, one of the key issues was to include the deployment of SRPF. 
 
 Confirming the development, BK Upadhyay, additional (DG) prisons, said the ploy is to beef up security at the Central Jail where some of the cadres are lodged at present. “The deployment would be for external security. Internally, we already have adequate measures. As of now, the additional security would come in the form of one platoon. Later, extension or permanency of the system would depend upon our review,” he said. 
 
 Another highly placed official said the proposal to strengthen jail security with SRPF platoon has been mooted at the state level. “The main aim is to have SRPF posted at central jails, especially in Vidarbha,” he said. 
 
 Sources claimed that Nagpur Central Jail has Naxalite think-tank like GN Saibaba and his accomplices, already convicted in cases pertaining to the rebel movement. Several hunger strikes and other movements of Naxalites have been taking place in jails, including their protest during and after the hanging of Yakub Memon inside the jail in 2015.
 
 Naxalites had also repeatedly engaged in hunger strikes in the jail demanding status for political prisoners.
 
 Besides the Central Jail, similar security arrangements have also started in Naxalite-affected Gadchiroli district after pamphlets hailing the Naxalbari struggle were found at many places.
 
 A source said pamphlets eulogized the sacrifices of comrades of the rebel movements, who have fought for the rights of peasants and landless labourers against feudal lords.
 
 State Anti-Naxal operation (ANO) cell chief Sharad Shellar, who took charge a fortnight ago, visited the interiors of Gondia district where some pamphlets and posters of Naxalbari have been found. “Our preparedness is a permanent feature. Senior officials visiting the interiors boost the morale of personnel and also ensure that they remain alert round the clock,” he said.
 
