NEW DELHI: Biju   MP Tathagath Satpathy’s tweet “warning” of a   plot to split BJD might have inadvertently tipped Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik’s hand ahead of his plan to reorganise his party after setbacks in recent zilla parishad polls.

 The tweet and the comment that only one MP had the relevant expertise provoked his fellow BJD MP Baijayant Panda to acidly remark that Satpathy had the experience of switching sides.
 
 The exchange brought Panda’s uneasy ties with the CM to the fore but also complicated Patnaik’s plan to move some ministers to the party organisation and sideline leaders seen as critical of him. The tweet, feel those familiar with the development, was intended to “flush out” the would-be plotters and is traced to some persons close to the CM but who appear to have acted on their own initiative.
 
 Panda followed the tweet with a newspaper article in which he argued that the party needs to take correctives to stem the rot and called on the CM to lead an introspection exercise by taking strong steps.
 
 While the ostensible purpose was to call for an introspection, Panda might be looking for a way out of BJD, feel his party colleagues who point out that he has been at odds with the leader for a while.
 
 Panda, said sources, was seen as a likely candidate for leader of the parliamentary party in 2009 before being sidelined in favour of veteran leader Arjun Charan Sethi. Feeling overlooked, Panda’s distance from Patnaik has grown.
 
 There is a view in BJD that Panda was not unsympathetic to a plot to topple the Patnaik government in 2012 which the party feels was backed by  , then in office at the Centre.
 
 This time, the needle of suspicion points to BJP with BJD leaders feeling that defections are being planned.
 
 BJP’s gains in the zilla parishad polls increased the unease in BJD circles and Patnaik is understood to have quietly contemplated action to strengthen his grip on the party organisation.
 
 It is believed that he is planning to give organisational responsibilities to some ministers in keeping with his careful and calculated style.
 
 The plans, however, might have been disrupted, at least for now, with the tweet war exploding between Satpathy and Panda.
 
 Panda’s remarks on the state of the party has certainly created confusion in the ranks and heightened fears of defections and splits. With BJP’s national executive scheduled to be held in Bhubaneswar next week, the political heat is expected to rise as Patnaik seems to be facing some of most testing moments of his political career in which he has usually got the better of adversaries without much trouble.
 
 
 
