ROHTAK: Exactly 12 months on, Haryana is on the edge once again with Jat community members threatening to take their agitation for reservation to the next level by observing February 19 as ‘Balidan Diwas'. Special protests are being organized in memory of those killed in last year's violent agitation.

 Although Jat leaders have refused to give details on exactly how they plan to observe the day, they have been talking about an ‘earthquake' to ensure that the government hears their demands. Making matters worse is their refusal to talk to the government now.
 
 As many as 30 people were killed and about 300 injured in the violence that had started on February 18 last year and seen four days of arson, looting and clashes between different communities. What had shocked most people was the ease with which the Haryana police had capitulated before the mobs, providing no resistance at many places.
 
 Not wanting another confrontation,  's Haryana president   on Friday reached Charkhi Dadri and extended an open invitation to Jat leaders to discuss their demands. 
 
 One of the main demands has been dropping murder and attempt to murder charges against youths booked for the violence last year.
 
 All India Jat Arakshan Sangrash Samiti (AIJASS) chief Yashpal Malik refused to hold any further talks and said on Friday, "We will reveal our strategy only during ‘Balidan Diwas' on February 19." All the same, he said that nearly 25 lakh people would gather at sit-ins across the state and nearly eight lakh would come to Jassia village alone. Malik would be at Jassia sit-in throughout Sunday.
 
 "The Union government has come to realise the power of Jat community in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh elections," he said. "If the government still doesn't accept our demands, then municipal polls are due in New Delhi and the Jat community may boycott BJP there," he said. The community leaders have campaigned against BJP in both states during the assembly elections.
 
 Making the situation more tense is the presence of hundreds of supporters of controversial preacher Rampal at Jassia on Friday to express solidarity with the Jat community. The district officials have now rushed a larger police force to the village backed by para-military personnel equipped with anti-riot equipment.
 
 National Highway-71A remained blocked partially during the presence of Rampal supporters holding the banner of their ‘guru' who was jailed in 2014 because of various cases against him.
 
 IGP, Rohtak range, Navdeep Singh Virk on Friday held a meeting with SPs and senior officials of the para-military forces.
 
