Ever seen  ? Or a large group of sambar deer feeding on fresh cucumbers? If not, you must pay a visit to the Nahargarh Biological and Zoological Park situated on the outskirts of Jaipur, where you can see how the animals are getting some extra help from the authorities to cool down in the searing weather. With the mercury level rising by the day , the park authorities have made special arrangements to help a total of 157 animals of different species to beat the scorching heat. From regular water supply and having ducts installed in the cages to setting up shade nets to help them switch to a summer-friendly diet, the park is taking various measures so that the heat doesn't affect the animals.

 
 
 
 Dr Ashok Tanwar, senior veterinary officer at the park, tells us that they have started giving showers to the animals two to three times a day. “Majority of them find it relaxing. Animals like sambar and chinkara enjoy their mud bath more than the shower. We ensure that there is a regular water supply .“
 
 “Water sprinklers have been installed in the enclosures, which make the animals come out of their cage and play , and it entertains the park visitors,“ he says. “We have three sloth bears, who are hyper-sensitive to heat. All of them eagerly wait for their caretakers to give them showers. Apart from these bears, there is a year old panther named Krishna, who enjoys taking showers. He is playful, and gets excited when we call him to give a bath,“ says the vet, adding, “This helps the animals to cool down during summer by bringing down the temperature of their cages. For instance, if the temperature outside is 40 degree celsius, then with these air-conditioning ducts it will be reduced to 30 degree celsius. Also, the ducts control the airflow within the cages.“
 
 
 
 
 As part of summer care, changes have been made in the diet plan of the animals. “We are giving ice creams made with milk, apple and banana to the sloth bears.We are also giving them sattu milk and honey . We have a sloth bear named Jhumri, who loves fruit ice cream and honey . It's not just the dogs, cats and monkeys who love ice creams, sloth bears also enjoy these frosty treats during summer,“ says the vet. Apart from this, they are also given water melons and cucumbers daily .“We are feeding all the herbivores with cucumbers, alfalfa grass and dal twice a day . We have 15 emus and 3 porcupines at our park, and we feed them spinach during summer. Porcupines are also given fruits like apple and banana,“ he says.
 
 "Deers like black buck, chinkara, sika deer, hog deer are given fodder, cucumbers, watermelons and chana dal. Not much change has been made in the diet plan of carnivores. “While we continue to give them buffalo meat during summer, we don't feed them eggs,“ the vet tells us.
 
 
 
 
 Animals too are prone to dehydration and heat stroke, so the park authority adds health supplements in the diet of ensure the well-being of animals. “We add electrolyte solution and Glucon-D to their drinking water to reduce dehydration and heat stroke,“ he says.
 
 Jagdish Chandra Gupta, assistant conservator of forest (ACF), Nahargarh Biological and Zoological Park, informs us that every month a budget of around 4 lakh is allocated for the park, so that the animals are well-taken care of. 
 
 
 
