MUMBAI: After the   and  , the heat is now on   for failing to   repair works. 

  An internal inquiry by the BMC has nailed 281 engineers who were responsible for ensuring good roads. The civic authorities have decided to send show cause notices to all of them and, in case of unsatisfactorily replies, they would be liable for further action. "According to the principle of natural justice, we need to serve them show cause notices in order to enable them to have a say in the matter. In case we do not receive a satisfactory reply, we will proceed with further action. Even if there is no reply from them, we will assume that they have nothing to say and proceed to act against them," said a senior civic official. 
 
 It is learned that 90 road department officials, ranging from junior engineers to the deputy chief engineer level, have been held responsible for the 34 shoddily repaired roads inspected by the inquiry committee initially. Now, 191 more engineers are being nailed for shoddy work on the 200-plus roads inspected in the second phase of the inquiry. "The inquiry committee found that while contractors did a shoddy job at repairing the roads and third-party auditors also approved their bills, the on-site road department officials were also equally responsible for not ensuring good quality roads. They did not do their job, our inquiry has found," said an official.
 
 In most of these roads, the inquiry committee had found the use of inferior quality material and several other lapses, like differences in the thickness of the roads repaired and what was presented on paper. The inquiry found that at many places, the contractor did not dig roads or remove debris while building a new road but claimed transport bills for removing debris. The inflated and fake transport bills caused the BMC huge losses, the inquiry committee report said.
 
  In the first phase of the inquiry, two senior officials - former chief engineer roads Ashok Pawar and former chief engineer vigilance Uday Murudkar - were among those arrested. 
 
