MUMBAI: In a surprise move, a couple of hours after being charged with the murder of daughter Sheena Bora,   told a special CBI court on Tuesday that she wanted to divorce husband and co-accused  .
Dressed in a white salwar kameez with a red dupatta, Indrani, 45, stood in the witness box and directly addressed special judge  .“I would like to file for divorce.But I am not sure if I am to file it here or at the family court. I wanted to clarify this, since I am in judicial custody,“ she said.
 
 Peter was not present, having being escorted out of court minutes before Indrani's revelation. Indrani's decision to seek divorce, sources said, came after she felt isolated and abando ned by the family . She apparently also feels that she was framed.
 
 About eight months ago, Peter's lawyers had hinted that he was mulling divorce, as reported first in TOI on May 5, 2016.
 
 Indrani's lawyer Gunjan Mangla said they had not decided yet on the grounds on which the divorce plea will be filed.
 
 Stating that it was her personal matter, the judge told Indrani she did not need the court's permission to go ahead and could file it before the family court.
 
 After framing of charges proceedings ended at around 1.15 pm, the case was adjourned to February 1. Following this, Peter, Indrani and her ex-husband and co-accused Sanjeev Khanna spend the next hour in the corridor of the third floor court room, waiting to be escorted back to jail. While Peter was with family members, including siblings Gautam Mukerjea and Sh ongon Dasgupta, Indrani was again seen only in the company of her lawyers. At 2.45pm, after the court's lunch break, Indrani sought a few moments from her police escorts and went back into court with her lawyer. At this point, Peter and Sanjeev were going down to the police van.
 
 Divorce, even if filed, will have no bearing on the trial in the murder case, said lawyers.
 
 Indrani's claim to want to file for divorce came as a surprise to Peter's lawyers. There had been no talk about any such spilt, said one. But Peter's lawyer   had told TOI last May that he (Peter) “had at the beginning of this year conveyed to me that `the marriage had ended' and was keen to get a divorce, but initiation of the process has been deferred since his bail application was pending“. Peter never got down to pursuing the thought, though.
 
