After Bigg Boss 8, Pritam is all set to showcase his dancing skills with wife Amanjjot in upcoming dance reality show  . In conversation with us, the couple reveal some interesting facts about each other.
 
  Pritam: I think our simplicity makes the two of us unique, compared to other couples!
  
  1. Why   Baliye?
  
   : We don't get to work together to be honest, so this is an opportunity to spend time together, and since we both love dancing, it's going to be a great opportunity.
  
  Pritam: I have hosted, acted, and I am an RJ too! So I feel that Nach has given me the opportunity now to explore my dancing skills as well. So well why not! And jo apni biwi ke isharo pe nach sakta hai tab nach baliye to kar hi sakta hai!
  
  2. Who is a better dancer from the two of you?
  Aman: I am a good dancer, but Pritam too has this dancing hidden talent in him!
  
  Pritam: Definitely my wife   !
  
  3. A secret about each other which the world may not know?
  Aman: Pritam is scared of ghosts at night, and that's why he can't sleep alone in the room!
  
  Pritam: She is a painter and now she is also learning to sing.
  
  4. Who wins an argument when there is one?
  Aman: It totally depends upon who I want winning the argument.
  
  Pritam: Totally depends upon the situation at that time.
  
  5. A song you would love to perform to?
  Aman: 'Alif Allah' from Bhaag Milkha Bhaag. I absolutely love that song.
  Pritam: Jane de jane de mujhe jane de' from Shola Aur Shabnam.
  
  6. Any dance form that you can't wait to learn?
  Aman: I can't wait to learn Contemporary dance . I am quite looking forward to learning that dance form, and a lot more too.
  
  Pritam: I can't wait to learn the Salsa dance form, and a lot more too!
  
  
 
  
  7. Your biggest competition on the show?
  Aman: We all are different and I am eager to learn and get motivation in someway by everyone there, so nobody is really competition.
  
  Pritam: Nobody but us ! We are our biggest competition.
  
  8. What makes the two of you unique when compared to other couples?
  Aman: I think just the way we are, ourselves! Is what always makes us unique.
  
  
 
  
  
 
