HYDERABAD: With the state government giving priority for effective use of social media in reaching out to people, the   has achieved the distinction of becoming the most followed civic body on Twitter (@GHMCOnline).

 The GHMC, which opened its Twitter account in October, 2015, has 10,020 followers till March 6, 2017. Its counterparts such as   (@BBMPComm1) has 7,913 followers and   (@PMCPune) has 5,317 followers.
 
 “GHMC's Twitter handle is being used by many people for bringing their grievances to the notice of the corporation and these are being resolved on a priority basis,“ GHMC commissioner B   said.
 
 Officials said many of the grievances relate to road conditions and sanitation and some people also tag photographs of such issues. The grievances are then sent to the zonal commissioners, who have separate Twitter accounts for taking action. Even municipal administration minister  , who regularly monitors people's grievances, tags and responds on Twitter through his personal account, a senior official said.
 
 The civic body also launched a mobile App `My GHMC' in July last with six modules and, within a couple of months, it was downloaded 1.70 lakh times Through the App, citizens can pay property tax, apply for trade licences, download birth and death certificates and also register grievances. While 1,03,658 birth certificates were downloaded since last year, 33,252 grievances were registered through the App. Officials said the corporation provides online services in each of its wings. GHMC was the first municipal corporation to implement eOffice and till date, 80,000 e-office files were created in the GHMC alone of the total 4,69,754 files created in the entire country by various municipal corporations. A few months ago, GHMC introduced Development Permission Management System for online approval of building and layout permissions.
 
 “Our IT wing is working on Geo-Tagging of all GHMC properties like markets, lease land, shopping complexes and other building to protect them from encroachments,“ Janardhan Reddy said.
 
