CHENNAI: From an impromptu ‘musical’ protest at Poes Garden to outraged tweets, funny memes and an online petition – people were quick to voice their dissent when news of V K   being elected AIADMK’s legislature party leader broke. And they did not leave any medium unexplored.

 “We were performing at a friend’s house in Poes Garden on Sunday night when we heard the news,” says Sofia Ashraf, whose band ‘Mallipoo and The Alwas’ was actually performing a song they had composed a year ago on elections and how politicians hound people’s homes before the polls but are never around when needed.
 
 “We feel our voice has been taken away from us. Democracy is about having our voice heard by electing people you want into power. But when the person who is coming into power has not even contested an election, our idea of democracy is shattered,” says Ashraf, rapper of ‘Kodaikanal Won’t’ fame. So, though it was past 10pm, since they were just two streets away from the Sasikala’s residence, the band, including guitarist and lead singer Suren Vikash U, decided to walk over, sing ‘Yen Votu Unakilla’ (My Vote Isn’t For You) and livestream it on Facebook.
 
 Late on Sunday evening, even as security was stepped up around Poes Garden, a petition started on online platform Change.org against Sasikala garnered close to 19,000 signatures, with 10,000 being added within 15 minutes. Reasons for signing the petition included the choicest abuse, digging out skeletons that have for long been in the Mannargudi family’s backyard and questions over Sasikala’s eligibility to lead the state. But the message is clear. People want O   to continue or re-election.
 
 “Please respect democracy. The people of Tamil Nadu want re-election,” said Kevin Jacob, one of the petitioners. The petition will be submitted to governor C Vidyasagar Rao, the President and the chief election commissioner.
 
 Netizens also took to Twitter and Facebook to register their protest. “We voted for J  , not her aide. We voted for a government, not a corrupt family. If this happens, RIP Democracy,” said the status message of a law student.
 
 Hashtags like   and #TNSaysNo2Sasi were the top trends in India, with ‘Jayalalithaa’ being most-searched on Facebook feed. Meme creators had a field day churning out creative content that denounced Sasikala’s claim to the CM’s post. Popular scenes from Tamil films became tools of parody for meme makers as they spared none while delivering their verdict. Panneerselvam, the man who stepped aside for Sasikala, was roasted in one particular meme which had a photograph of cottage cheese with the caption, “...the last remaining Panneer (cheese) has gone stale.”
 
 
