MUMBAI: The   ( ), backed by the Supreme Court-appointed   (CoA), shot an 11-page, 24-point letter to the   ( ) on Sunday evening, clearly stating that India was not in agreement with the changes proposed in the finance and governance models of the sport's parent body.

 "We draw your attention to the Members Participation Agreement (MPA) dated 12th October 2014 entered into between BCCI and  , relating to ICC Events between 2015 and 2023. The proposed new ICC constitution and financial model will, if adopted, entitles us to exercise certain rights under the   and also to avail remedies under applicable law," the BCCI wrote in the letter, a copy of which is with TOI.
 
 What the BCCI has conveyed to the ICC is that since there happens to be no 'scientific formula' behind the figures mentioned in the proposed financial redistribution model, and since there is 'no logic' in the proposed voting system ­ other than the potential risk of curbing India's global dominance of the game ­ India will not agree to the amendments. Should the ICC continue to persist, India will invoke the MPA, which means they reserve the choice to move out of the ongoing eight-year bilateral cycle.
 
 Calling the move to change the finance model of ICC an arbitrary one, BCCI's letter further reads: "The ICC is seeking to change the existing financial model without having any scientific formula or technical analysis behind the proposed changes. It is a fundamental attribute of any resource allocation system to first collect information and then allocate resources based on the information, priorities and a defined methodology.
 
 "Since no methodology has been articulated in support of the proposed new financial model, we are unable to evaluate the same on any recognized and/or accepted parameters. Any discussion on the proposed new financial model has to be based on clearly articulated and acceptable principles which recognize the relative contribution of BCCI to the revenues of the ICC. For the above reasons, we are not agreeable to the proposed new financial model".
 
 BCCI's feels that the move to include Ireland and Afghanistan as full members and chart out their revenue allocation from funds generated by Indian cricket is an irrational one. The method of payment of a participation fee (called 'Contribution Cost') to all members to secure their participation in ICC events and compensate them for the opportunity cost incurred on account of blocking portions of their cricketing calendar in order to participate in ICC events is one that isn't based on a sound scientific formula either.
 
