LUCKNOW: At least in one corner of   is yet to die down.  , the place where some of the most affluent individuals of the city congregate on a regular basis, is set to witness historic elections on March 19. For the first time in the club's history two people are in the fray for the post of president.

 From the time office bearers have been appointed in the past 50 years, the club's president had been nominated unopposed. Current president IAS Navneet Sehgal was nominated for two consecutive terms, the maximum period allowed for a person to represent the club. The tenure of the committee ends every two years and elections are held.
 
 This time the 1,857 members will be tasked to choose between two retired IAS officers DD Verma and SK Dwivedi as president, apart from selecting secretary , captain and joint secretary, the four top positions, as well as six committee members. For every other post, the competition is stiff and contestants have been trying to influence voters by raking up burning issues.
 
 “I want the new committee to focus on promoting golf-related activities and improving infrastructure to promote the sport,“ said 43-year-old Pankaj Agarwal, founder and chancellor of a private university located across   and an avid golfer.Another member, Rajeev Srivastava said that the new committee should try negotiate the terms and conditions of the pending lease with   at the earliest. “If we are able to construct rooms, tie-ups with other prestigious clubs in the country will improve,“ said Srivastava, a businessman.
 
 Tenure of the existing committee headed by Sehgal got over in August last year. When Sehgal got injured in a car accident, it was unanimously decided to hold elections on February 26. However, on the basis of an application moved by club member and PWD engineer Devendra Singh, it was decided to postpone the process owing to assembly elections as he pointed out that government servants will not be able to vote on account of poll related duties.
 
