NAGPUR: Ever since he started playing cricket,   wanted to be like  . His father Dhiraj has been a great fan of Warne and former Pakistan great  . The day Rajput took him to  , Ryan had only leg spin in mind.

 Ryan, who is an allrounder, has been performing well in local tournaments for the last couple of years. He wanted to meet any world class leg spinner. The 12-year-old’s dream came true during final India-Australia One-day International in the city on Sunday when he met leg-spinner  .
 
 The meeting was arranged through Pune Supergiant media manager  , who is also a director of Institute of Sports, Talegoan. Zampa has been part of Indian Premier League franchise Pune Supergiant for the last two years
 
 “It was great learning experience for Ryan. When I approached Romi, he asked me about Ryan’s progress. When I told him about the prizes he has won in the local tournaments, he promised me to arrange meeting with a reputed cricketer. Eventually he arranged meeting with Zampa. Ryan was very happy after meeting Zampa. He asked him questions related to leg spin,” Rajput told TOI.
 
 Zampa told him about the delivery stride, release points, using the crease and various aspects of leg spin. “He spoke to Ryan for almost an hour. Apart from a good cricketer, he is nice human being. It was great gesture by him to take so much of time out for a youngster. Zampa told Ryan about mental aspects. He said leg spinners need to be mentally strong since they can go for runs. However, they have the ability to win you the matches as well. He told Ryan about the field settings a leg spinner should have. He also guided about variations,” Rajput said.
 
 When Bhinder requested Zampa to guide a talented leg spinner, he readily agreed. “Zampa said it would be great to share the knowledge and experience with the youngster. He wanted to give something back to the game and I don’t think a better way than this. He is very focused and talented cricketer, who has a great future. I wish good luck to Ryan. Hope he learned valuable lessons from Zampa,” Bhinder said.
 
 
