AHMEDABAD: All roads will lead to the   over the next four days as who's who of politics, business, and even academia from across the globe descend on Gandhinagar for the Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit (VGGS) 2017. The 8th gala edition of the summit will be inaugurated by Prime Minister   on January 10.

 On Monday , the PM will throw open the five-week and the-first-of-its-kind Nobel Exhibition, the BSE International Exchange in GIFT City , and will break ground for Rs 300 crore mega-redevelopment project of the Gandhinagar railway station.
 
 With “Connecting India to the World“ as its central theme, this year's biennial flagship event of the state will host prime ministers, presidents, deputy PMs, and ministers of several nations apart from CEOs of Fortune 500 companies.Prime Minister of Serbia Aleksandar Vucic, President of Kenya Uhuru Kenyatta, Presi dent of Rwanda Paul Kagame, Prime Minister of Portugal Antonio Costa, Russia's deputy prime minister Dmitry Rogozin, and France's for eign minister Jean-Marc Ayrault have consented to be a part of the summit.
 
 Bertrand-Marc Allen of Boeing International, Sultan Ahmed Bin Sulayem of DP World group,  's John Chambers, and 32 other global CEOs will rub shoulders with Indian business magnates such as Mukesh Ambani, Anil Ambani, Kumar Mangalam Birla, Gautam Adani, Vishal Sikka and Pankaj Patel at the Global CEOs' Conclave. The sum mit, no longer limited to just investments, aims to pro vide a plat form to debate global eco nomic and so cial issues on the lines of the   (WEF) in Davos. Large delegations from12 partner countries of Vibrant Gujarat -including the US, the UK, France, and Austra lia -are attending the summit.
 
 And for the first time, eight No bel Laureates will interact with youth during the “Nobel Dia logue“. VGGIS 2017 is expected to be leveraged by PM Modi to soothe the nerves of industries hit by demonetization.
 
 Keeping with the tradition, the state government has lined up 21,910 memorandums of un derstanding (MoUs) to be signed. The investment com mitment is expected to reach Rs 30 lakh crore, the highest among all summits held so far.
 
 Apart from the country-spe cific seminars featuring sever al nations, sessions on goods and services tax (GST), Make in Gujarat, MSMEs, smart and livable cities, innovation, star tups, and entrepreneurship will be major attractions.
 
