KOLKATA: Till two weeks ago,   was the most sought after person at an office compound in   The   at an IT multinational, Thakur was a   on the   in nearby ATMs. But those days are over. 

 Cash ease following hike in the daily   withdrawal limit from Rs 2,500 to Rs 4,500 has made people like Thakur lesser mortals again.
 
 Demonetisation had created a new breed of office bearers like Thakur who doubled up as ‘ATM khabri’ for the employees who did not have time to hunt for cash-loaded ATMs. These ATM reporters — mostly peons, liftmen, group D staffers, receptionists, gate keepers and canteen boys — were assigned, albeit unofficially and discreetly, to call/text/WhatsApp the higher-ups as and when a cash van parked itself in front of nearby ATMs. The rewards came in both tangible and intangible forms — tips, gifts, prestige and favour. And if a coveted info on the availability of ‘Rs 500-note availability’ became true, the size of returns got bigger.
 
 Tiwari is still prepared with his info, but there is hardly any taker. Executives who have been swearing by him are no longer looking forward to his call on ATM-cash updates.
 
 “In the beginning, I looked like a fool when people asked me about ATMs with available cash. As the queries started pouring in, I got busy collecting information about cash availability from tea stalls or hawkers. Suddenly, my importance to the white-collar managers went up. I thoroughly enjoyed my privileged status,” said Munna Rajak, who works at an educational coaching institute near Taratala. In the last month, when the cash crunch was at its peak, his tips increased many-fold.
 
 Sweta Bhattacharya, who works at a private sector firm in on Shakespeare Sarani, had bolstered her rapport with the receptionist on the ground floor where two ATMs are stationed. “I told our receptionist to dial my intercom as and when the cash van arrives. In return, I gave her a gift pack of cosmetics” 
 
 The pan shop-owner opposite KMC ATM plaza had created a WhatsApp group to alert around 30 office-goers about cash flow at the ATMs. 
 
 Not only busy executives, but various ‘ATM cash finder’ websites, apps and blogs, which mushroomed in the virtual world during the notebandi days, also made the most of the info collected from these ATM khabris. 
 
 
