Mumbai:   officials   a Customs house   and   in the 38kg   smuggling case. Two persons, known in the industry for facilitating speedy clearance of consignments and who were part of the racket are on the run, a source said. 

 Those arrested are importer, Sayed Mushtaq Abubakar, and agent, Ravindra Haldankar. A day after the Special Intelligence and Investigation Department found the gold bars concealed in a container of women’s footwear during examination, TOI has learnt that the middlemen, Zuber and Ilyas, appear to have played a role in the smuggling. Customs officials are probing if the goods were meant for a jeweller. Increased demand for gold during the festive season may have acted as an impetus, sources said. “The duo is infamous for arranging clients to clearing agents in some instances where they could face hurdles,” an officer said. 
 
 The duo utilised the services of Abubacker, proprietor of Al Reham Impex, to carry out the imports. The Import Export Code (IEC), mandatory for exports/imports was in his name. Abubacker has reportedly told officials that he was promised Rs 25,000 for every smuggled bar. The gold was smuggled from Thailand. Abubacker was aware that the container had gold. “He had a small footwear stall in Dongri,’’ an official said. 
 
 Officials are ascertaining the supplier’s identity. “We believe the amount to be paid towards import was sent by hawala, an illegal money transfer route,’’ an official said. Haldankar, of Sharada Clearing, is also being questioned by Customs officials. All four are likely to be arrested, sources said.
 
 The sources said it is quite surprising that gold was smuggled through Mumbai docks where documentation is online. “It happens mostly through air, and through minor ports, where a manual system is in place,’’ they said. An official said the introduction of GST has made illegal gold transactions difficult. “Gold attracts a GST of 3%. At every stage, right from procurement to where gold is sold to the customer, invoices have to be generated. If at one stage it is not done, it will amount to depriving input credit at the next level,’’ an official said.
 
