CHENNAI: The Dental Council of India (DCI) deadline for admissions to all BDS courses this year ended on Sunday, and yet many colleges and deemed universities continue to admit students into the course using backdated cheques and documents.

 On Wednesday, four self-financing medical colleges and three deemed universities told TOI that they had been calling parents and even offering up to 50% discount towards course fee for BDS seats to NEET-qualified students. A student was even promised a job in the same college after he completed the course.
 
 Marketing teams and agents have been flooding parents/students with messages and calls every day. While many   said they still had more than 60% of their seats vacant, some premier ones said they too had a handful. “We are trying our best to fill the seats before September 18. Even last year some of our seats went vacant. This time it seems far worse than 2016-17,” said a dean of a medical college, refusing to be named.
 
 As against the usual cutoff date of August 31, the DCI had extended the deadline for admissions to September 10 this year, as many states, including Tamil Nadu, were new to the NEET-based admission process. “No college can admit students after this. In the next one week they should process details and submit names of the students who enrolled into the course,” said DCI vice-president Dr SM Jayakar. “We depend upon state government to keep a tab on admission process. If complaints against colleges are proven we will initiate action,” he said.
 
  returned more than 80% of seats that could not be filled through three rounds of all-India counselling to deemed universities. The state selection committee secretary   said the committee returned 492 seats to self-financing colleges after single window counselling.
 
 The state has 100 seats each in government dental college and state-managed   and 1,710 seats in the 18 self-financing dental colleges. The fee for government dental college was Rs 11,600. The statutory fee fixation committee had fixed tuition fee for all government quota seats in self-financing college as Rs 2.5 lakh per annum and management seats as Rs 6 lakh. The NRI seats cost Rs 9 lakh.
 
 Most colleges have converted NRI seats into “open category seats”. “I received a message from a private college. I called the admission officer who said the college was willing to reduce the tuition to Rs 1.20 lakh per annum if we join today,” said Mahendran T, a businessman, whose son had applied to various dental colleges.
 
