After the phenomenal success of Kyunkii... Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi and Ek Mahal Ho Sapano Ka, other Hindi soapmakers decided to create stories about Gujarati families, perfect stereotypes for the big, fat (not literally) happy family for their soaps. A vibrant community , Gujaratis love to celebrate their festivals and weddings and are warm, hospitable and dramatic. Which in turn means their stories can create plenty of fodder for melodrama and entertainment.Plus, Hindi shows have a massive viewership in Gujarat, so it makes business sense to have shows that people in the state can identify with. From uber rich urban families of Ahmedabad and Mumbai, to a traditional joint families from Rajkot and Kutch, prime time soaps bank heavily on Gujarati families to up the entertainment quotient to ensure better TRPs.
 GUJJU FAMILIES ROCK, REEL-Y!
  
  Two Hindi shows revolving around Gujarati families -Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah (since 2008) and   (since 2010) -classic examples of the trials and tribulations of quintessential Gujarati families from Rajkot and Ahmedabad respectively have struck a chord with their target audience and continue with their dream run as TRP-trippers year-on-year. Newer shows with Gujarati familes as central characters are:   that revolves around the story of Mehtas,   (Siddharth Shukla-Rashami Desai) which is about a business family from Ahmedabad,   (starring Jay Soni), is a daily sitcom about a Mumbai based Gujarati family ,  's about a Rajkot family, while a Kutchi family leads the cast in  . Making a web comeback is the cult show Sarabhai Vs Sarabhai (that highlights a Gujarati family from SoBo). Closer home, in aapnu Gujarat you have shows like Aa Mama Nu Ghar Ketle?, Suri.... Laavshe Sapna Ni Savaar , Mehek....Mota Ghar Ni Vahu and Shukra Mangal which also highlight the beauty of jointfamily system amongst Gujaratis.
  
  GUJARATI TADKA ADDS TO THE DRAMA
  
  Their dramatic and flamboyant nature make Gujarati joint families perfect for daily soaps. Sumeet Mittal, producer of Dil Se Dil Tak says, “Gujaratis are fiercely proud of their culture which help makers weave interesting stories around them.Besides, the women are strong and have a fair say in the household, which in turn makes it easy to create powerful women characters.“ “Joint families have their own charm on small screen. With many characters under one roof, you have many stories to share,“ says producer Ravindra Gautam.
  
  
 
  
  LOCAL VIEWERS CONNECT WITH JOINT FAMILIES ON TV
  
  While Gujarati viewers love seeing characters they can identify with on small screen, other shows like Ishqbaaaz, Shakti...Astitva Ke Ehsaas Ki, Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai, Zindagi Ki Mehek, Ek Shringaar...Swabhiman which revolve around big, happy families from all over India are also warmly accepted and watched. Says actor Vivian Dsena “When a show revolves around a joint family, there are plenty of emotions and drama potential that can be explored. Plus.when you see your favourite characters celebrate festivals in a show audiences enjoy that too.“
  
  As long as viewers continue to shower their love on Gujarati joint families on telly shows, makers will continue to spin stories about families who love their theplas, khandvis, festivals and believe in living a kingsizequeen-size life with a generous dose of tears, laughter, love and some garba.
  
  
 
