AGRA: Touted to be the first-of-its-kind project, the 207-km-long  , which was declared open in November last year has developed cracks. CM's dream project, said to have been conceived following his experiences in cities like Amsterdam, Berlin and Paris, where cycles are used extensively in city commute, is now facing an internal probe by the officials of Public Works Department which constructed the highway. 

 Ashok Kushwaha, the man whose complaint led to ordering of a probe, told TOI, "The private contractor used inferior quality of concrete in the construction of the cycle highway. The tender of the project, however, mentioned that the superior quality concrete was to be used. This could not have happened without the involvement of some officials of the department."
 
 Following Kushwaha's complaint to the state authorities, PWD chief engineer Rajan Mittal ordered an internal probe by a five-member team. The complainant also raised questions on the probe team since many of them were involved in the construction of the project too and sought an independent investigation.
 
  Mittal said, "On the basis of complaints of corruption in the construction of Agra-Etawah cycle track, a probe was ordered. However, I am not aware of the present status of the probe."
 
 Divisional commissioner Chandrakant said, "The cracks on the surface of bicycle highway are in my notice. The district magistrate has been asked to investigate and draw technical conclusions on the damages. On basis of the investigation, suitable action will be taken."
 
 The state government had spent Rs 134 crore in development of the track aimed that "world-class cycling infrastructure" will give a boost to tourism. The government also made efforts for branding of the cycle highway as ideal "adventurous and ecologically conscious tourist destination". 
 
  Constructed by the UP PWD, the cycle highway runs parallel to the main highway. Along the way from Agra to Etawah, it dots around 100 villages. In Etawah, the track begins from the Lion Safari. 
 
 On the way to Agra are tourist destinations like Naugava ka Quila, Raja Bhoj ki Haveli, and Bateshwarnath Temple. It ends at the eastern gate of the Taj Mahal in Agra. 
 
 The track criss-crosses the natural beauty of the Chambal and Yamuna rivers. 
 
