Thiruvananthapuram: The civic body, which is already gaping at serious drain of funds in terms of entertainment tax with the imposition of GST, is likely to bank on two key sections in Kerala Municipality Act to introduce service charges under the new tax regime in the city.  Although the ruling council had earlier taken a decision not to force introduction of service charges overriding objection from opposition parties, the recent effects of GST on corporation's finances has forced civic body to bring in service charges at any cost.  As per the latest decision, corporation will push for introducing service charges citing that non-implementation of service charges would make each councillor liable for financial loss and will be answerable to audit objections. Two sections; section 231 and 279 of Kerala Municipality Act are being cited on this account. According to section 231 (sub section 3), any resolution abolishing an existing tax or reducing the rate at which a tax is levied shall immediately be reported to the government and as per sub section 3 of section 279,the Council shall not alter the rate of tax or abolish such tax except with the previous sanction of the government. If objection arises from a section of councillors in introducing service charges, the council will not pass it unanimously but would rather report objections to the government and in such case the councillors who raise objections will be liable for financial loss incurred by the civic body, a corporation official said. The civic body is already reeling from financial losses owing to GST as it has to forego around Rs 10 crore this year in terms of entertainment tax. Besides, corporation has decided to divert funds from own fund to make up for losses once GST is applied on civil works bills. The corporation has been keen on collecting service charge as the introduction of new tax structure would mean very little to corporation’s coffers due to the unique tax system being followed in the city. Hence it has become very important for civic body to ensure available financial sources to be tapped to the fullest potential.  The service charges are levied under rule 26 and 27 of Kerala municipality tax revision and service charge rules. It allows civic bodies to collect service charges for four types of service namely solid waste management and sanitation, drainage maintenance, street lighting and water distribution through public taps. As per rules service charge for solid waste management is 4% of property tax while that of water distribution is 3%. The charges for lighting and drainage management are 2% and 1% respectively.