LUCKNOW: With a catch line of `We deliver what we promise', the ruling   released its election manifesto here on Sunday , focussing on sops for the rural populace, particularly women, infrastructure for fast-paced development in urban centers and smartphones for better peopleto-government connectivity .

 The 32-page manifesto, which carries a photograph of SP patron   and party's newly crowned national president  , promises Rs 1000 monthly pension for one crore destitute women. Highlighting main features of the manifesto, SP chief Akhilesh said his go vernment is already giving Rs 500 monthly pension to over 50 lakh women in the state. We have also planned to give pressure cook ers to women and also 50% waiver in fares of state operated roadways buses,“ he said.
 
 Going a step further on the success of NT Rama Rao's Rs 2kg rice scheme in Andhra Pradesh in 1983 and in 1995, the SP promised free wheat and rice to the poor across the state. “We have not only fulfilled promises of 2012, but launched and completed projects and schemes not mentioned in that manifesto. If SP forms the government again, we would deliver what we have promised,“ Akhilesh said, giving an outline of the manifesto released at SP headquarters along with MP Dimple Yadav and a host of ministers and MLAs.
 
 Talking about the free smartphone scheme, he said over 1.4 crore people have already registered for it. “If they would vote for the SP, we would win over 300 seats,“ he said. The scheme promises a free smartphone to everyone below the Rs 1lakh per annum income slab.
 
 SP has promised two more greenfield expressways apart from time-bound completion of Poorvanchal Expressway , acquisition of land for which is underway . Air ambulance at Lucknow airport and a concrete plan to deal with the growing traffic problems in major cities are other main points apart from Metro services in several cities. “Who knows if I would go to present the next state budget using Metro itself,“ Akhilesh said.
 
 The laptop scheme will continue, he added. “Those who have already got laptops know how useful they are,“ Akhilesh said adding that 1kg `ghee' and milk powder each would be given to school students.
 
 The SP chief said if voted to power, his government would create a special fund for farmers to ensure free power for irrigation and highly subsidized seeds and fertilizers. apart from setting up solar-powered cold storages and crop insurance scheme. The manifesto assured freedom of religion to all.
 
