COIMBATORE: E V R Periyar had been a distant historical name all the while for R Hameed, 54. But now the teachings of the rationalist leader have become the only succor to Hameed.

 “I have started reading the ideologies of Thanthai Periyar,’’ says Hameed, the father of slain atheist H Farook, seated in his modest house in a narrow lane of Bilal Estate, a thickly populated locality in  . Hameed has decided to join  , a splinter group of Dravidar Kazhagam founded by Periyar to propagate rational ideas. “I will fight against superstitious beliefs. But I am not interested in preaching against religions. I believe our soul is god,’’ he told TOI.
 
 Hameed says this is not impulsive decision, but a well thought out one. “I will discuss with DVK founder Kolathur Mani on my role and then take forward my fight against superstitions,’’ Hameed says.
 
 Hameed seems to have come to terms with the murder of his 31-year-old son, but not with the suspected reason he was eliminated. “If my son had agreed to follow diktats of his murderers to give up his ideology, he would have lived. But he stood up for his principles. I feel proud of my son,’’ says Hameed.
 
 Through his decision, Hameed also hopes to convey the message to the assailants that murder or violence is not the solution for any problem. “Islam doesn’t prescribe violence. No one has the right to murder someone in the name of religion,’’ he says.
 
 Hameed, a native of Srivaikundam in Tuticorin district, studied up to Class VII and married   of Bilal Estate in South Ukkadam in 1983. Three years later, the family moved to Chennai where they started living in a rental house, before shifting to Ukkadam in 2003. Farook studied up to Class X and took up scrap business.
 
 Hameed, meanwhile, continued to live in Chennai working as a manager in a guest house on Wall Tax Road. He was at his Chennai residence on March 16, when he got a phone call from his relatives around 12.10am that Farook was murdered.
 
 “My wife Nafisha and daughter-in-law Rashitha knew that Farook was involved in DVK activities. But I was not aware of his involvement. Only after his arrest on charges of indulging in violence during Hindu Munnani activist Sasikumar’s murder I came to know about it,’’ he said.
 
 It was DVK which took up Farook’s case. “DVK got the Goondas Act slapped on Farook revoked,’’ he said.
 
 DVK members however expressed concern about Hameed’s safety. “For now, our concern is to educate the two children of Farook. One of them wants to be an advocate. So we are not very keen on involving Hameed in ideological activities,” said M Nehrudass, district president of DVK.
 
 Family members too are worried about his safety. “We are afraid Hameed would also be targeted by fundamentalists. We don’t allow him to travel anywhere alone,’’ said I Shajahan, brother in-law of Farook, who accompanies Hameed always.
 
