Kumar Gautam, the very talented writer and producer of the show ' ' has had a rather interesting career graph. A multitasker to the core, he says, “My entire journey has been very special. The very fact that I have been able to write, create and execute shows across genres and GEC channels; from crime to comedy, reality to fiction, mythology to family dramas, make my journey enthralling. Yet I wish to create as many shows as I can with variety for the audience to binge on.”

 His latest show 'Queens Hain Hum' is a rather unique and bold concept. Talking about it, he says, “'Queens Hain Hum' symbolises the sanskari-modern Indian women of our times. By modern, I don’t mean women only following modern lifestyle but women who have broken shackles of stereotypes and are progressive-liberal in thoughts and practice. This whole idea makes the show unique. I personally don’t think our show is ‘bold’ per se considering the time we are living in and audience’s exposure to international content. But when compared to currently existing shows, certainly we have tackled issues that can be tagged as bold. For example, a woman reporting sexual harassment against her female boss  , or Aakansha announcing she wants to divorce to her husband because he writes erotica that objectifies women, or Shreya questioning her husband that why is he not making love to his legally wedded wife, or   raising a son born out of one night stand. We have a scene where Queens ask   to visit temple during her menstrual cycle and various similar issues pertaining to daily life; all these have been addressed by our show.”
 
  As a writer, Gautam says that he has seen   evolve, but the change has been slow in the making. He reveals, “I believe, there is plethora of talent and intense willingness to tell a variety of stories, but there are few who are in a position to take that risk. Since there’s lot at stake, in terms of TRP and advertisements and with the fierce competition around, larger goals often die in achieving smaller goals. But, to improve the quality of content on TV, what immediately needs to be looked into is the stereotyping of a female protagonist. We need to give them a defiant voice and a strident purpose, and take away patriarchal notions and sexism from our protagonist’s life. We just need to believe that us as writers and creators have the power to influence societal mind-set of the audience for good.” 
 
 Being a part of the TV industry since years now, Gautam also spoke about it has changed over the years. He says, “The industry is buzzing with opportunities. Time band of programming has been increasing in each channel, and film stars and celebrities from other fields are looking for opportunities to work on TV. Niche channels and programming, too, is booming. There is something for all on TV. I believe that if standards and practices (S&P) regulation measures go more liberal, digital and TV will organically merge to become one Gibraltar-like player in the entertainment market.”
 
 
