MUMBAI: Facing the heat from citizens over the indiscriminate cutting of trees for the Rs 23,000 crore Metro III project, an arborist has been appointed for a tree preservation management plan.

 An arborist is a specialist in cultivation and care of trees, including prevention of tree diseases.
 
 The arborist, Simon Leong from Singapore, has been appointed by  's (MMRCL) general consultants, Maple Consortium, for six months at US $33,000 -that's about Rs 22 lakh-a month besides accommodation and return air fare (four trips). The appointment was approved in January this year after the MMRCL had already identified trees to be cut. Till date, around 100 trees in south Mumbai have been cut.
 
 Activists are questioning the cost being incurred for transplanting trees, given the fact that in the past no transplanted tree has survived. “It's a complete eyewash. Tree plantation or transplantation is a complete scam in the city as norms are very lax,“ said Zoru Bathena of  .
 
 The MMRCL has proposed to cuttransplant 5,012 trees along the 33.5 km route comprising 26 stations. The last station is proposed at   where the metro car shed is to be located.
 
 Nina Verma, a Churchgate resident, filed a petition against cutting of trees while Pervin Jehangir, aCuffe Parade resident, filed a writ against due process not being followed besides other issues.The Bombay high court, which, in February , stayed the cutting of trees is hearing both matters together.
 
 Through the Right to Information Act, residents learnt that trees from ColabaCuffe Parade are to be transplanted at Wadala in marshland where even mangroves do not grow . Also, new trees meant for Colaba and Cuffe Parade are to be planted as compensatory afforestation in Wadala in the marshland.
 
 The law mandates that for every tree that is cut, three have to be planted within 30 days. In this case, not one tree has been planted yet.
 
 Ashwini Bhide, managing director, MMRCL, said the decision to appoint the arborist was approved by the   in December 2016January 2017 with a large number of trees (1,700) which were slated to be transplanted.
 
 “Based on search around India and abroad, our general consultants suggested that the Singapore expert had a good track record of tree plantation and survival. He (Leong) will visit Mumbai over the next 12-18 months and helping MMRC contractors address this crucial responsibility ,“ said Bhide.
 
 Bhide said MMRCL has 43 hectares for tree plantationtransplantation of which 30 hectares are at Aarey . She said the marshland at Wadala would “obviously be avoided or suitable trees in consultation with the civic garden department will be planted.“
 
 Bhide did not respond to questions on whether the tree preservation management plan will be shared with citizens. She said the tree cover at metro stations will be restored but did not give a timeline.
 
