NEW DELHI: If the claims of mother-killer Animesh Jha are to be believed, in his post-murder flight across India, the 28-year-old software engineer was no cocaine-addled fugitive, but a smart operator who kept tabs on the police investigation even as he cleverly deflected his own folk’s suspicions about his hand in the incident.

 On his arrest on Tuesday, Jha, who claimed to be a fan of crime thrillers, told the cops that he convinced his relatives that his mother had disappeared after faking her death. “He claimed this was his mother’s ploy to keep him from inheriting property,” said a police officer. “He also asked his cousins to help him evade the cops by updating him about the investigations.” Jha disappeared from his house in   after killing his mother on February 24 for refusing money to feed his drug addiction.
 
 Jha left home with his mother’s jewellery and credit cards, withdrew Rs 10,000 from an ATM in Palam and reached   on his bike. “There he hired a cab for Rs 4,500 and drove to Rishikesh, where he shaved his head and assumed the guise of a photographer,” said an investigating officer. “He occasionally called relatives in Delhi to find out if the cops had discovered the murder.”
 
 After police found Meeta Jha’s corpse on February 28, the killer   left Rishikesh. “He apparently began to stay in cheap hotels in Haridwar and avoided contact with people there,” said Surender Kumar, DCP (South-West). “He seemed to be well aware of police functioning.
 
 He had deliberately left his mobile phone at home.” When a team led by Jasmohinder Singh, SHO of Dwarka (North), contacted the man’s relatives, no one could say where Jha was. “He had stopped phoning relatives in Delhi once the murder was discovered,” said a police officer. According to his confessional statement, Jha travelled to Jammu, Pathankot, Bhaktiyarpur and Ludhiana, returning at one point to Delhi to try and get a loan against the jewellery he had taken.
 
 He could hock the ornaments only for Rs 6,500, but this funded his passage to Vadodara, Bhopal and Mumbai, where he opened a new LinkedIn account as a police officer to monitor the murder investigation. His one flaw was maintaining contact with a cousin in Patna. Police traced him to the Bihar capital through their own LinkedIn account and arrested him.
 
 
