KOLKATA: This year's I-League has seen a fairytale rise of 
  but it has done little to douse the passion Kolkatans have for their two footballing giants -  .

 Last week, Hazra's Asutosh College and Shyamaprasad College (which share a campus) turned into a battleground as supporters of the two clubs got involved in a heated argument. The effect of the ruckus continued for over two consecutive nights.
 
 Now, the Bhowanipore police have lodged an FIR against alleged East Bengal supporters for using obscene language against some women students, who were Mo hun Bagan fans. Sources said the incident took place close to the college. According to the FIR, students of both Asutosh College and Shyamaprasad College were in the canteen when the argument broke out.
 
 “The accused East Bengal supporters used slang against the female supporters of Mo hun Bagan with an intent to insult their modesty and also threatened them,“ the FIR stated. The complaint was filed by the president of the ` Asutosh and Shyamaprasad College Mohun Bagan Fans.' An officer said, “We have registered a case under IPC 506 (threat) and 509 (insulting the modesty of a woman). We will take statements of the accused and speak to witnesses.One of the students, who allegedly used derogatory terms, has been identified.“
 
 Most Shyamaprasad students whom TOI contacted, however, could not recollect a club named ` Asutosh and Shyamaprasad College Mohun Bagan Fans'. “I remember seeing flags of both clubs inside college on match days. There have been instances of arguments and friendly banters, but this definitely crossed the limit,“ said Sayantan Datta, an East Bengal supporter.
 
 Some students said it might be difficult to watch ISL together after this clash. “If the two clubs play against Kolkata's ATK, I wonder if there will be a third group vying for space,“ said Debanjan Bose, another student.
 
 Saugata Roy , MP and governing body member, said the college authorities would look into the issue if the principal reports the matter. “The actual incident took place outside the college and therefore the college has little role in this,“ said Roy.
 
