KOLKATA: When Ghost Robotics Minitaur last year made waves globally with its ability to scale fences and jump to open doors, it was a proud moment for Salt Lake’s Aloke and Chaitali De. Far away at the  , their 29-year-old son, Avik, was one of the co-founders of Ghost Robotics that came up with this little quadruped robot, which had some cool tricks up its sleeves. 

 A few months after the path-breaking innovation, Avik finally managed to visit his parents in Kolkata on a five-day trip. Before landing, Avik posted another video to demonstrate some new features of his robot. Titled Minitaur Explores the Outdoors, the video with 1,31,225 views and counting showed how the robot could handle all kinds of terrain by dynamically adjusting its gait. Now, it can climb, jump, duck, get under a car and even walk on ice. Admitting making it walk on ice was a challenge, he said, “The friction is less on ice and so, the difficulty.” 
 
 An alumni of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Avik went to Baltimore on a scholarship for a course in mechanical engineering and a bachelors degree in applied mathematics. After completing his masters in mechanical engineering from  , he shifted to Philadelphia. At the University of Pennsylvania, he is now pursuing Phd in electrical engineering, besides following his entrepreneurship pursuits, something that sets him apart from others. Along with Gavin Kenneally, Avik is the founder of Ghost Robotics, whose robots sell for $10,000 a pop, the clients being US Army Research Lab, Google, University of Washington, University of Texas and University of Florida among others. Though it’s too early to presume robotic assistance in Kolkatans’ lives, Avik’s mother doesn’t mind having one to help her in the kitchen.
 
 Has the city changed much since his last visit in January 2015? “Not that I notice but of course, my stay is restricted to Salt Lake,” he said. “The last time I was here I noticed the city was painted in blue and white.” An avid Feluda fan, Avik also rues having missed out on watching ‘Double Feluda’. Though he has to dabble with time to meet his friends and relatives during the short stay, he is happy to soak in the warmth of his family, having daal-bhaat, alu bhaja, ghugni and soyabean-er torkari at home. “Most of my close friends have moved out of Kolkata. When I am here, I try to meet up with those still around,” said Avik, a good cook who specialises in carrot-stuffed singaras.
 
  As a kid, Avik loved playing the keyboard and was a favourite at para concerts. But his passion has now taken a backseat. “Unfortunately, I don’t get time to play the keyboard any more. If at all I get some time, it is to exercise,” he said.
 
 
