CHENNAI: As Tamil Nadu's   arrived to be part of the   in Bhubaneshwar, he had to fight many odds - both on track and off it - enroute to his podium finish. Rajiv, who bagged silver in the men's 400m event on Friday, isn't at the pink of his health. "My haemoglobin levels in blood are on the lower side and my liver too isn't functioning at its best," the 26-year-old told   on Saturday.

 The   bronze medalist paid a visit to the doctor last month which is when he came to know about his health condition. "There is nothing to worry as such, but yes my timings are getting affected. I was a second or two on the slower side during the event," said Rajiv. He clocked 46.14 seconds to finish with silver in the 400m event behind countryman Y Muhammed Anas who won with a timing of 45.77. While Rajiv did give a tough fight for Anas in the title race, he couldn't go for the kill. Despite the loss, Rajiv only had words of praise for the Kerala athlete. "He is one of our best runners in the quarter-mile events, and it shouldn't come as a surprise that he won it. Having trained together for long, we always complement each other and know each other's strengths and weaknesses," Rajiv said. 
 
 Rajiv entered the   on Saturday with an open mind. "To be honest, I never expected to win a medal, and didn't want to put any pressure on myself. But, I wanted to give nothing but my best as I was representing my nation in a prestigious event. The heats (in the 400m event on Friday) went off well and it did give me a lot of boost. I started off confidently in the final but couldn't finish with gold. Having said that, I am extremely happy to finish with a medal as it was a hard-earned one," said Rajiv.
 
 In his bid to be back in the best possible shape, Rajiv is keen on making alterations to his diet. "I am sure a few changes to my diet will do wonders to my health. I am even more focused now," he said.
  
 Rajiv's first challenge may have ended with a medal, but his next challenge is on Sunday. "I will be part of the 4x400m relay and my target as always is to give my all," said Rajiv, before signing off.
 
