THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The ruling and opposition parties locked horns in the assembly over the murder of   activist in Kannur on Monday. Seeking leave for an adjournment motion, K C Joseph said that it was not right on the part of chief minister   to brush off the murder as a ‘one-off incident’. He said that after Vijayan took over as the chief minister, Biju’s murder was the 18th political murder in the state and the eighth one in Kannur.

 Joseph blamed that the ruling parties at the Centre and the state for creating such a serious situation. He said that the latest incident was a pre-planned one and it happened with the knowledge of the  .
 
 However, the chief minister said that he had termed it as ‘one-off incident’ as it should not hamper the ongoing efforts to maintain peace in the district. Vijayan said that since February 14 – when he convened an all-party peace meeting in Kannur – 220 such meetings have taken place at the grassroots level to maintain peace between political parties.
 
 He said that BJP state president   – who had posted the video of a procession with a caption that CPM activists were holding a victory procession after the murder – was spreading a lie. The chief minister said that no such incident had taken place. 
 
 When opposition demanded a probe, he said that the issue will be examined and a case will be registered against Rajasekharan, if required, for spreading a lie.
 
 Vijayan also blamed the BJP for trying to impose Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) in Kannur, an act that had invited severe criticism, especially from the courts, for numerous human rights violations.
 
 Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala that his party would oppose the BJP’s move to impose AFSPA. He added that BJP alone should not be blamed for the incidents. He felt that the CPM was helping the BJP and RSS by providing such opportunities.
 
 Chennithala slammed the chief minister saying that the murders are happening either with his or the party’s knowledge or he has lost control over the party as cadres are ignoring his diktat. After speaker P Sreeramakrishnan denied the adjournment motion, the opposition staged a walk-out in protest.
 
