PATNA: The ball to save the   in Bihar is back in CM Nitish Kumar’s court following   chief Lalu Prasad’s assertion on Friday that his younger son and deputy CM   will not resign just on the ground of an FIR lodged by the CBI against him in a land-for-railways hotels case. The case is dated back to a period when Lalu was the railway minister.

 Political observers feel neither Lalu nor Nitish wants to take the blame of weakening or breaking the RJD-JD(U)-Congress Grand Alliance in state, but the question remains that who would make the “sacrifice” to save the Mahagathbandhan. 
 
 The JD(U) can make the sacrifice by keeping mum on the alleged corruption charges against   on the ground that mere FIR is not a strong reason for demanding his resignation and may take a call once CBI files the chargesheet against him.
 
 RJD, on the other hand, may sacrifice by asking Tejashwi to resign to save Nitish’s image of maintaining zero tolerance against corruption. However, RJD sources confirmed to TOI that in such case, Lalu would also ask 11 RJD ministers to resign as a mark of support to Tejashwi and gain sympathy of their cadre and people in general. They also reiterated that RJD would continue to support Nitish government to ensure the Grand Alliance’s survival.
 
 “Lalu ji will never allow the Mahagathbandhan to break as we want to replicate it at the Centre as well. Lalu is playing a pivotal role in this regard,” RJD’s national spokesperson Manoj Jha told TOI.
 
 It’s the same Lalu who, on naming Nitish as the CM face before the 2015 state election, had said, “Mai jehar pi loonga, lekin sampradaik takaton ko hara kar rahoonga (I will drink poison to defeat communal forces)”. Though Lalu later clarified that he was actually referring to BJP and not Nitish as poison. Nitish and Lalu had joined hands after two decades of political rivalry which ended in 2013 when RJD supported the Nitish government after the JD(U) severed ties with the BJP.
 
 Political observer and professor at A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, D M Diwakar, said breaking ties with Lalu would be “political suicide” for Nitish as well. “Nitish ji knows he will lose his edge and the possibility of him becoming a PM candidate in future if he joins the BJP camp. Besides, it will deal a severe blow to his secular image as an impression will be made that he has joined hands with communal forces against Lalu. The RJD chief also knows BJP has already waged a war against him and he will be completely abandoned if Nitish also leaves him,” Diwakar said.
 
