NEW DELHI: Low-cost carrier (LCC) IndiGo does not want the government as a partner if its attempt to acquire the international operations of   and AI Express works out. The airline also said it will start low-cost long-haul overseas flights “with or without“ the AI deal working out. It has cautioned that selling AI's assets like slots at airports abroad to a state-owned foreign airline could be a “Shakespearean tragedy“, akin to “outsourcing“.

 “We would look at acquiring all of AI's international operations and AI Express,“ IndiGo's reticent founder-promoter   said on Thursday.His partner,  , said, “A joint venture or joint ownership with the government is at best a very , very difficult proposition .... government has owned and managed AI for more than 50 years. They are looking to divest in it ...From our perspective as a corporate entity , we would not go down a path where there would be a JV or even a minority , majority stake which the government would own. Maybe (it's) a good model, but we cannot bring value to that proposition.“
 
 IndiGo had last Wednesday sent a formal expression of interest for international operations of AI and AI Express after the government had approved divesting its stake in AI. If acquisitions of only inter national operations are not possible, IndiGo had offered to acquire all operations of AI and AI Express.
 
 Explaining this move, the two founder-promoters said India is a huge market for international travel but its hubs for globetrotting are abroad. With over 40% domestic market share, IndiGo felt it should enter the long-haul market “irrespective of how the AI story plays out“. “Our original plan was to share our thinking at the end of this month. However, that got pre-empted due to the government's in principle decision to divest itself of Air India,“ Gangwal said. “We believe international long-haul markets are ready for right type of low cost operations,“ Gangwal said.
 
 According to Rahul Bhatia, carving out of an airline operations for sale is not a new concept. “A few decades ago,   acquired Panam's Pacific operations. Based on the success of that transaction, United then followed up by acquiring Pan Am's London routes in 1990.“ 
 
