CHANDIGARH: Police ineptness and soaring crime rate have forced   (RWA) of Sector 21 to secure the locality on their own instead of relying on the authorities in a first of its kind move in the city. The association has spent Rs 3 lakh to cover all entry and exit points of the sector with high-resolution closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras, enabling them to capture each individual entering the sector from any point or any activity.

 The association has selected a total of six points covering all A, B, C and D portions of the sector from different angles. The association has also set up server rooms with all latest devices and technology .Residents have pointed out that the police have failed to make them feel secure, unable to crack theft and snatching cases. On July 26, five armed broke into the house of former OSD to former Punjab chief minister   in Sector 21 C and decamped with Rs 3 lakh and other valuables. They had also tried to enter two houses.All of them are yet to be caught.
 
 Baljinder Singh Bittu, president,  , said, “Since crime has risen alarmingly , we want to take precautionary measures in all possible areas. We used our fund of Rs 3 lakh to install CCTV cameras a couple of months back. The technology we have procured is so good that even a small object can be zoomed in at any point of time, whether during night or day . We are trying our level best to help security agencies nail down criminals in our area." Baljinder Singh Bittu, president, Sector 21 RWA, said, “We have been constantly requesting the authorities to allow us to erect security gates around our sector, but they have not permitted us. We are even ready to hire security guards by bearing their cost on our own for our sector," Bittu added.
 
 Some other residents welfare associations are also considering to install CCTV cameras.
 
 “Since we have over 70 RWAs throughout the city, we have advised all of them to come forward to install such devices,“ said an office-bearer of   of Chandigarh (Foswac), an umbrella body of the RWAs in the city.
 
