
PATIALA: After scams involving fake salary certificates and inflated bills for answer sheets, irregularities in   payments have come to the fore at   in Patiala. The employee provident fund money of 950   has been siphoned off.
 
 An inquiry report says Rs 10 crore was not deposited into 10 crore was not deposited into the employee provident fund (EPF) accounts of 950 contract employees, including housekeepers, peons, security guards and others who were paid salaries of Rs 5,000 to Rs 8,000 a month. 
 
 The report was submitted to Anurag Verma, officiating V-C and secretary of higher education, No audit was done for three years and the university au thorities failed to check the discrepancies, which allowed private contractors to manipulate accounts. The inquiry was initiated after economics professor Dr Jaswinder Singh Brar lodged a complaint with the V-C. Professor Pushpinder Singh Gill of the business management department was asked to probe the matter.
 
 As per the report, the contractor collected the EPF fixed at 13.36% from the university , but never deposited the same into the accounts of the employees. Gill said he had looked into the accounts of around 500 contract employees and it showed that they hadn't got EPF . According to rules, the university authorities were supposed to verify that the EPF of each contract employee paid through the contractor was deposited in the employees' accounts every month.
 
  Only after verification was the next in stalment of EPF to be released by the university . However, the verification was not done for over three years. The report also said that the contractor fudged attendance records of contract employees to further manipulate their salaries. 
 
 Yet, the same private contractor received the annual contract for three years from 2014 to 2017.The university had floated tenders to outsource certain jobs in 2014. Contractor   Sandhu, however, said that the EPF and ESI of employees was being deposited into accounts and he had documentary proof to testify the same. “I do not know what is going on, but the EPF of all employees was deposited into their accounts,“ he said.
 
 Deputy controller local audit   said, “The contractor was given the EPF share only after the audit was done. We aren't supposed to ask about the EPF but even we verified it. It is the duty of the contractor to deposit the EPF of employees separately into their accounts“.
 
