NAGPUR: Congress has finally broken its 10-year-old alliance with NCP before the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) elections. Now, all four major political parties, with BJP and Shiv Sena already having parted their ways few days ago, will contest the elections slated on February 21 separately.

 Congress state parliamentary board met on Tuesday at Mumbai and took the final decision. Former ministers Vilas Muttemwar, Mukul Wasnik and city President Vikas Thakre were present in the meeting.
 
 Soon after learning about the decision, NCP city president Anil Deshmukh, in a press release, said Congress was not at all ready to share seats favourable for NCP. Hence, the party took the decision to part ways with Congress. “NCP wanted to have alliance with Congress so that the secular votes do not get divided. Congress was engaged in dilly-dally tactics even with just a couple of days remaining for submission of nomination forms,” he said.
 
 Congress finalized some of the candidates that included people one from its allies like Lokmanch and few more small parties last evening. However, Congress sources said candidates will be handed over A and B forms on Friday morning which is also the last date for filing nomination forms.
 
 All it started with Congress city parliamentary board passing a resolution for not having any alliance with NCP citing lack of latter’s presence in the city. NCP had asked 38 seats, one in each ward while Congress commenced talks with 16 seats.
 
 In the municipal elections, Congress and NCP had contested individually in 2002. Congress won the elections with clear majority. They had no alliance in 2007 elections as well in which Congress got defeated.
 
 Sena has already parted ways with BJP. The two saffron parties had no alliance in 1997 and 2002. BJP came to power in NMC for the first time in 1997 and lost in 2002.
 
 BJP city parliamentary board is expected to meet on Wednesday. Chief minister   and union minister   are likely to be present in the meeting and finalize the candidates. BJP may release first list of candidates on Thursday. All candidates will be finalized on Friday morning.
 
 NCP has finalized its candidates in the meeting held on Tuesday. NCP working President Pravin Kunte said first list of candidates will be announced on Wednesday. “NCP will finalize seat sharing with alliance parties-- Indian Union Muslim League,   CPI and CPM on Wednesday afternoon. Final list will be released on Thursday,” he said.
 
 Shiv Sena is likely to announce all of its candidates on Thursday. Sena’s city election screening committee has shortlisted the candidates on Tuesday. Chief committee comprising Vidarbha contact chief Tanaji Sawant, district President Satish Harde and former MP Prakash Jadhav will finalize the candidates on Wednesday and release list on Thursday.
 
 Most of the parties are waiting for the rebels from the other parties to join them and hence are delaying the list. BSP seems to be in hunt of rebels from Congress and BJP and hence is delaying the announcement of its candidates. They are likely to reveal candidates on Thursday.
 
 
