WASHINGTON:   appears to have established complete control over the Grand Old Party, with Republican grandees falling in line with the victorious candidate’s proposals and actions even when they go against traditional party dogma and line of thinking. 

 They include backing greater federal spending such as a $ 1 trillion infrastructure splurge, funding the border wall with   to the tune of $ 20 billion, and the use of executive authority that they previously saw as diluting legislative clout.
 
 Trump swept into a party retreat in Philadelphia on Thursday with a first-time use of Air Force One and blew away lawmakers with another exultant speech centering on his presidential election victory that he said no one saw coming, while urging them to enact ''great and lasting'' change for the benefit of the people. 
 
 "This Congress is going to be the busiest Congress in decades, maybe ever," he declared, virtually directing the party lawmakers to get cracking, even though many of his proposals go against the interest of lawmakers and their constituents.
 
 Among them is Senator John McCain, one of the few legislators who is refusing to roll over, and who on Thursday challenged Trump’s pledge, among much acclaim from his base, to renegotiate Nafta. 
 
 ''Facts are stubborn things, and the facts clearly show that NAFTA has delivered enormous economic benefits to the citizens of my home state since it went into effect in 1994. In just two decades, Arizona’s exports to Canada and Mexico have increased by $5.7 billion, or 236 percent. 
 
 Today, international trade supports more than one-in-five jobs in  , which pay roughly 18 percent higher salaries," McCain argued in a statement, warning that free flow of trade has been the foundation of U.S. economic policy for decades, and a major factor in US prosperity and greatness, and reversing that would be detrimental to US interests around the world.
 
 But Trump has taken his election victory as vindication of his stand on free trade, which he has argued has decimated the US economy, a gross over-simplification that is challenged by economists from all sides. Trump has first trained his guns on Mexico in his pledge to change the rules. 
 
 On Thursday the Trump White House floated a proposal for a 20 per cent tariff on all imported goods, in part to bank roll the proposed border wall with Mexico, before reeling back on the idea after a furor when many analysts pointed out that would just mean the American tax payer would be footing the bill for the wall.
 
 The White House later clarified that it was just one of the ideas among a "buffett of options" being discussed, even as economic pundits castigated the administration for not thinking through the proposal. The broad consensus was such a tariff would trigger of a trade war with other countries retaliation, and the end result of costs being passed on to the consumer.
 
 ''Simply put, any policy proposal which drives up costs of Corona, tequila, or margaritas is a big-time bad idea. Mucho Sad,'' Lindsay Graham, another Republican lawmaker who has baited Trump, tweeted jestfully, as analysts said that could pretty much apply to anything from textiles to tea.
 
 Shafting NAFTA, or renegotiating it, as Trump has proposed, is not as simple as Trump loyalists from Middle America make it out to be. Southern U.S border states such as Texas and Arizona are tied at the hip with Mexico in trade and manufacturing that goes beyond immigration issues. 
 
 Among McCain’s arguments: Mexico is Arizona’s number one trade partner, accounting for nearly 30% of all Arizona’s exports to foreign markets, and with more than $16.8 billion in total trade with Mexico in 2015.; This is twice the state’s exports to Canada, China, the United Kingdom and Germany combined; Manufacturing between Arizona and Mexico is highly integrated, with parts often crossing the border several times before the final product is produced; 111,200 Arizona jobs directly depend on bilateral trade with Mexico; Around 65,000 Mexican visitors come to Arizona every day to shop and spend $7.8 million daily in Arizona; Mexico is Arizona’s largest foreign supplier, with a share of almost 40% of its total imports totaling $7.6 billion in 2015.
 
 But as with Obamacare, voter fraud, TPP and many other issues, Trump’s Middle America base, previously regarded as the fringe, is now driving policy, and the Party is having to fall in line. Lawmakers for whom free trade and globalization was an article of faith (and who beat the rest of the world into adhering to it) are quickly scrubbing their websites to sign up for the Trump position, in tune with the saying that to the victor goes the spoils.
 
 
