BAREILLY: To check rampant practice of proxies and ghost employment plaguing civic bodies across the country,   (BMC) will soon introduce   for its 2500 employees. For this purpose, the civic authorities have earmarked as many as 27 points across the city from where the employees, under their respective wards, could mark their attendance through the automatic system. According to the information, 175 of BMC’s 2,500 staff have already been using the system.

  Speaking with TOI, BMC   Uttam Verma said, “The move is aimed at effectively monitoring the entire staff and improving the overall functioning at all levels of the civic body. The automatic system will ensure regular and punctual attendance of all the staff members. Also, it will help in improving the Swachh Bharat ranking of the city. We will soon be floating tenders in this connection and it is expected that the system will be available within two months.”
 
  Officials said that the system is already installed at BMC’s four departments – main office, central office, computer and accounts departments. “To plug leakages, BMC has already introduced the biometric method of marking attendance for its office employees, around 175 of them. The civic body had previously decided to initiate the system of automatic attendance for its sanitation staff, but the work could not materialize due to some errors in tendering process,” Verma added.
 
  The civic body has identified 27 places in Bareilly city which will be equipped with the biometric attendance machines. According to officials, CI park, Pawan Vihar, Sanjay Nagar, Indira Nagar, Saidpur shelter home, Satellite crossing, Subhash Nagar, Circuit House, Biharipur, Quila and Qutubkhana are among the places where the automatic system will be installed.
  
  Of BMC’s 2500 staff, there are 2,062 sanitation workers – 1,410 of them permanent and 652 contractual. Officials said several complaints of irregularity in the working of sanitation staff have been received. “With the introduction of the automatic attendance system for all employees, the regularity in the work will be maintained and better services will be provided,” said VK Mishra, BMC’s chief sanitation and food inspector. Record of all the employees will be maintained and in case he fails to mark the attendance, his salary will be deducted, he said.
