AHMEDABAD: The sound of rose petals gliding into a silver plate is perhaps a tone imagined by a mind focused on worship. Such a sound will fall only within the range of faith. If that is so,   made everyone a believer at the   on Day 4. Indeed,   produced a series of transmutations on his santoor while essaying  , on Wednesday. The peals of his notes assumed the weightlessness of petals and the lustre of silver, or formed the mist of incense, or spoke like thunder decreeing the end of the dry season.

 For those who did not witness Pandit Sharma’s concert, these experiences might seem like a catalogue of miracles rather than a record of another great Saptak baithak. But Panditji himself affirms that his hands are not guided by training alone. “Some divine power has made me a medium to transmit music,” Panditji told TOI on Wednesday afternoon, a few hours before he was to take the stage. “You may think that these are empty words. But these are my heartfelt sentiments. When I get tired while I am playing, even at home, I do not quit. This I believe is possible only because of the divine power.”
 
 And Panditji reveals that power to all listeners. He does not want classical music to be the preserve of a handful of initiates. He told the audience: “If you don’t know the raga or the finer points of a composition’s structure, please don’t bother to look those up. Just experience the music.” 
 
 The audience obeyed him. Saptak venues are often packed. But on Wednesday, even the mattresses — which dilate under rasikas’ weight to make room for more — were stretched beyond their capacity. Scores of rasikas were lined up on the cold cement floor all over the hall. Nobody in the audience, though, showed any regard to such considerations.
 
 When Panditji’s alaap issued the call to begin self-reflection, faces in the audience mellowed like the autumn sky. When Chandrakauns surged like a torrent, eddies of smiles swirled around the hall. When Panditji ended the concert, eyes closed and a namaste held for a many suspenseful seconds, hundreds of rasikas remained still — they didn’t want the communion with power to end.
 
