NEW DELHI: The panel of ministers set up to review the functioning of the IT network for the Goods and Services Tax ( ) has set timelines for fixing the issues affecting the GSTN (Goods & Services Tax Network). 

 The panel led by Bihar's finance minister Sushil Modi, which met in Bengaluru on Saturday, decided to set timelines for fixing 20-25 issues that have been identified as impacting the smooth functioning of the IT network. A large chunk of issues being faced by taxpayers would be resolved by the end of October.
 
 Infosys will appoint technical teams in all states under a nodal officer to sort out problems dogging the network. Representatives from the IT major were present in the meeting along with revenue secretary Hasmukh Adhia, GSTN interim chairman   and GSTN CEO Prakash Kumar. The panel will meet every 15 days to review the progress in resolving the issues impacting GSTN.
 
 While the government has said that glitches encountered by taxpayers were due to overload on the system, businesses have complained about the frequent breakdowns in the IT network. At the 21st meeting of the GST Council in Hyderabad last week, state finance ministers complained about the difficulties arising out of the frequent breakdowns. It was decided to set up the panel of state ministers to resolve the issues affecting the IT network.
 
 "There are always initial hiccups and issues, but there haven't been large-scale failures," Adhia was quoted as saying when asked about the problems being faced by users of the network.
 
 Sushil Modi urged businesses to file their returns and not wait for the last day. Officials say the system was facing overload due to last minute surge in filings. While the network has coped well initially while registering taxpayers, it had come under pressure during filing of returns prompting the government to extend the deadline. 
 
 The Union government holds 24.5% equity in GSTN and all states including NCT of Delhi and Puducherry, and the empowered committee of state finance ministers (EC), together hold another 24.5%. The balance 51% equity is with non-government financial institutions. The company has been set up to provide IT infrastructure and services to the Centre, states, tax payers and other stakeholders for the implementation of GST.
 
