PANAJI: A proposal to include  ,   and Canacona under   (CRZ) II and shift of the   (HTL) towards the shoreline, after a fresh exercise, is likely to open up more area for development and benefit  .

 National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM), which carried out the exercise to determine the HTL afresh, has indicated that the line has shifted more towards the shoreline.
 
 While this means the no development zone of 200m is likely to shrink significantly, the area within the 200-500m zone will be vulnerable to further development.
 
 The Chennai-based institution submitted the new draft coastal zone management plan (CZMP) to Goa government on Tuesday, which will be submitted to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) soon.
 
 “The earlier HTL was demarcated by the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) in 2006, on orders of the high court. The 2011 CRZ notification provides specific guidelines for demarcation of HTL. NCSCM has followed the guidelines and demarcated the HTL, which is now towards the seaward side as compared to the HTL demarcated by NIO. The distance towards the sea varies from area to area based on site-specific conditions,” sources said.
 
 Another significant proposal involves reclassifying CRZ II and including more beach areas, such as Calangute and Candolim, some areas in Pernem, Mapusa river, Taleigao and Caranzalem into it. Earlier the municipal areas of Panaji and Mormugao were included in CRZ II.
 
 This development means the town and country planning department (TCP) is likely to play a role in the planning of the coastal areas.
 
 Additionally, as per NCSCM’s proposal, all coastal villages from Pernem to Canacona are likely be declared as fishing villages. 
 
 As per the CRZ 2011 notification, the government of Goa can notify fishing villages where all foreshore facilities required for fishing and fishing allied activities such as traditional fish processing yards, boat building or repair yards, net mending yards, ice plants, ice storage, auction hall, jetties, can be permitted by gram panchayats in the CRZ area.
 
 The proposal to declare fishing villages had been pending for a few decades. Goenchea Ramponkarancho Ekvott (GRE) had been petitioning the fisheries minister with their long-pending demands for many years.
 
 Source said once the draft report is submitted, the state government will have to keep it open for public objection and suggestions before presenting it to the National Coastal Zone Management Authority (NCZMA). Once the draft plan is approved by the NCZMA, it will go to ministry of environment, forest and climate change for approval and notification.
 
