PALIA, LAKHIMPURI KHERI: As eight assembly constituencies in Lakhimpur-Kheri prepare to go to polls, 19-year-old Satnam   Bains is involved in an intense debate with his father and grandfather over tea to reach a consensus on the political situation.

 First-time voter Satnam is among around 25,000 Sikh voters who have been staying in   district for generations after having shifted from their ‘pind’ (native villages) in Pakistan or   after Partition. Satnam’s forefathers moved here in the 1960s and the family now holds vast agriculture land tracts in Pipariapur gram sabha that falls under Palia assembly segment.
 
 On Sunday, chief minister Akhilesh Yadav’s wife and Member of Parliament Dimple Yadav held a rally at Gola, 65km away from the Bains’s house, while on Monday Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the star BJP campaigner addressed a massive crowd in Lakhimpur.
 
 Head of the family Sewa Singh said he had been supporting the Congress party as per a family tradition. “The party’s contestant for the assembly elections this time, Saif Ali Naqvi is son of a former MP. The party doesn’t believe in dividing the community. In Palia, Sikh community has coexisted and thrived. It would not have been possible had members of different communities started baying for each others’ blood,” said Sewa Singh.
 
 Raking up the 1984 anti-Sikh riots does not change the atmosphere as much water has flown under the bridge. “In the riots (after assassination of then prime minister Indira Gandhi), it was a mob that went berserk and not the political party. Members of the mob have joined different political parties and all are not in Congress,” added Sewa, to prove his point. He also feels that coalition with Samajwadi Party will help Congress regain some of its lost turf.
 
 Though thousands of Sikhs who have made Palia their home have decided to move on after Operation Blue Star (military entered Golden Temple, Amritsar to flush out terror accused, arms and ammunition), they have not forgotten Punjab. Pasted on the windscreen of an SUV owned by Bains family is the Khanda (Sikh symbol signifying 5 Ks).
 
 Satnam’s father and Sewa’s son Fateh is a confused man. He has been an ardent Congress supporter for long but this time he is struggling to decide where to place his trust. “The local BJP candidate has stood by us through thick and thin. I also support Modi’s development agenda but at the same time I feel the party has been trying to vitiate atmosphere in western UP. Harvinder Kumar Sahani alias Romi Sahani had won on BSP ticket last time,” said Fateh. BSP candidate Virendra Kumar Agarwal is 71-year-old and is also trying his luck from Palia that has more than 3.20 lakh voters. 
 
 Satnam plays peacemaker as the discussion heats up. “Just follow your instincts. When political leaders can switch sides and join new parties, voters should not hesitate in doing the same. Support a candidate who will be accessible and work for us,” said Satnam prodding the senior members to wrap up the conversation. 
 
 
