NEW DELHI: While four of the seven judges in the Supreme Court’s Constitution bench delivered a landmark judgement banning use of religion, caste,  , race or language in electioneering, the other three termed this an exercise in judicial legislation, forbidden by Constitution. 

 The dissenting judgement, authored by Justice   for himself and Justices Adarsh K Goel and U U Lalit, said Section 123(3) of the Representation of the People Act with the fallacy perceived by the majority of the judges had remained in force for more than five decades. “In the meantime, elections have been held successfully, governments have changed and majorities have been altered in the House of Indian democracy,” it said.
 
 Referring to the earlier judgements of the SC giving a restrictive meaning to Section 123(3), the Judges said: “There is merit in ensuring a continuity of judicial precedent. The interpretation which has earlier been placed on Section 123 (30 is correct and certainly does not suffer from manifest error. Nor has it been productive of public mischief.” 
 
 Holders of the dissenting view in the Constitution bench said every system and law could have some or the other imperfection and for that, the judiciary need not don the hat of legislature to virtually amend the statutes by reading expansive meaning into it. Justice Chandrachud said: “No form of government is perfect. The actual unfolding of democracy and the working of a democratic constitution may suffer from imperfections. But, these imperfections cannot be attended to by an exercise of judicial redrafting of legislative provision. Hence, we hold that there is no necessity for this court to take a view at variance with what had been laid down.” 
 
 Citing the apex court judgement in striking down National Judicial Appointments Commission, especially the judgement written by Justice   who authored the majority judgement giving an expansive meaning to Section 123(3), Justice Chandrachud pointed out that Justice Lokur has abandoned the principle he had adopted to hold that collegium system, devised by two earlier judgements, needed to be followed. Applying those parameters enumerated in NJAC judgement, the SC should adopt the view taken by earlier judgements giving a restrictive meaning to Section 123(3) of RP Act, he said. 
 
 The dissenting judgement said: “To widen Section 123(3) would be to do violence to its provisions and to rewrite the text. Moreover, it would be to ignore the context both in terms of our constitutional history and constitutional philosophy. The provisions of an election statute involving a statutory provision of a criminal or quasi criminal nature must be construed strictly.”
 
