NAGPUR: It was a wonderful evening for those who got an opportunity to witness musicians from China deliver   at Smt Binzani  , Mahal, on Wednesday.

 ‘Silk Road Workshop’ derived its name from the trade route between China and other countries which not only facilitated business but also exchange of cultures and ideas. 
 
 As part of the Indo-China Music Festival, a few Chinese artistes displayed their talent on Indian and Chinese instruments, leaving the audience spellbound. It is a two-day workshop organized by Musicians Federation of India in collaboration with the college. Thursday will see a full-fledged performance of these artistes at   at 7pm.
 
 The event at Binzani Mahila Mahavidyalaya was inaugurated by AK Gandhi, president of Nagpur Shikshan Mandal. Harish Rathi, secretary NSM and Snehal Paldhikar, principal, were the guests of honour. 
 
 In her introductory remarks, vice-principal Suchita Marathe said, “This event has been organized to provide an opportunity to connoisseurs of music so that they can appreciate the rich blend of music and culture. Music needs no language. It doesn’t need superficial words as it can only be connected with through heart.”
 
 The Indo-China Music Festival began in Mumbai at Royal Opera House and will be concluding at Chitnavis Centre on Thursday.
 
 The artistes were Ma Quijun, a vocalist, Cao Yanli on ‘Guzheng’, Chen Yuqi on the 21-stringed ‘pipa’, Luo Zhangcheng, a percussionist, Xie Dongxiao on ‘Guquin’, Chen Yifei on ‘Yangqin’, Zheng Ce on ‘Dizi’ and Chen Feng on ‘Erhu’. 
 
 The diverse concert was directed by Kishor Jawade. Charuta Joshi compèred the programme. Each artiste elaborated on the instrument they were playing through an interpreter and explained its origin. The audience was in rapt attention as a completely different type of music unfolded before it. 
 
 Musician Zheng Che was of the opinion that “Indian music is fantastic. It is so great and the skills displayed by Indian musicians are awesome. Chinese instruments are slightly different than Indian. I love the culture here. I think Indian culture is best described as mysterious. It centres around music a lot so I find it appealing.”
 
 Cao Yanli was happy to explore the varied forms of music in India. “I am fond of Indian music. I like strong rhythms and Indian music has that component. It is attractive. It is great to be here and see two completely different cultures interact.”
 
 The last performance was by a Chinese singer who sang a Kishore Kumar and Lata Mangeshkar classic along with Jawade and got a huge applause from the audience. Vaishali Upadhye coordinated the programme. 
 
