CHENNAI: A day after actor Rajinikanth cancelled his visit to   bowing to the pressure from pro-Tamil parties like the MDMK and   that wanted him to withdraw from a charity event organised by Lyca Group's Gnanam Foundation, former Sri Lankan president Mahinda Rajapaksa’s son on Sunday alleged that   politicians have done nothing for Tamils in the island nation except politicising the issue during every election.

 "True nature of Tamil Nadu politicians is revealed again. They won't allow anyone, even @superstarrajini, to help #SriLanka's Tamil people,"   tweeted. 
 
 Following that, in an interview to Times Now channel, he said, "What have the Tamil Nadu politicians done for  ? They have done nothing. They are only talking about it. They are only criticising the Sri Lankan government."
 
 "They block and stop when people try to come and help Sri Lankan Tamils. If there is election around the corner, they bring Sri Lankan Tamil issue up," he alleged.
 
 Rajinikanth was scheduled to hand over the homes built by Lyca Group's Gnanam Foundation for displaced Tamils in northern Jaffna on April 9. Lyca Productions, owned by Subashkaran Allirajah, is producing the actor's latest sci-fi movie "2.0", a sequel to his earlier "Enthiran". 
 
 In a statement, the actor said he took the decision to cancel the visit after MDMK chief  , VCK chief Thol Thirumavalavan and Tamizhaga Vazhvurimai Katchi (TVK) leader T Velmurugan had asked him to consider withdrawing from the programme.
 
 The actor said that tough he "could not wholeheartedly accept what they said," he would not attend the event.
 
 In 2014, various Tamil outfits, including the VCK and the TVK, opposed Lyca Productions' Tamil movie "Kaththi", alleging that Allirajah had close business ties with then Sri Lankan president Rajapakse, who is often criticised in Tamil Nadu for the death of civilian Tamils during the final battle against the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) in 2009.
 
 Meanwhile, Lyca, on Sunday, said they were "saddened by the development of a negative environment surrounding the aid programmes of a charity to further the political gain of some elements" and also denied links with the Rajapaksa family.
 
 A statement from Lyca’s Gnanam Foundation said, "Lyca Gnanam Village was created to provide permanent housing for 150 families who had previously been living in a refugee camp in Vavuniya for more than three decades." 
 
 They have organised an event to hand over the deeds of the newly built houses to the 150 families. "Superstar Rajinikanth was invited to take part in this momentous charity event and he readily agreed, considering this an opportunity to meet the Tamil people and share his love for them," the statement said.
 
 "We are saddened by the development of a negative environment surrounding the aid programmes of a charity to further the political gain of some elements. We do not want the Superstar subjected to an uncomfortable and embarrassing situation. Consequently, it is with profound regret that we inform you that the events planned in Jaffna on April 9 and Mr Rajinikanth’s visit to Sri Lanka have been cancelled," the statement said. However, the foundation confirmed that Lyca Gnanam Village "will be officially opened as planned April 10 and the houses will be handed over to the recipients".
 
 It also reiterated it had no business ties with Rajapaksa.
 
 "It is a well-known fact that numerous baseless rumours have been fabricated by our business competitors, stating that we have a business relationship with the past Rajapaksa regime. Our continuous actions to date have proved that such reports are untrue and unfounded," it said.
 
 Some of its business competitors were still continuing to make such allegations, it claimed.
 
 Stating that they have "have no political agenda," the foundation alleged that the actions of "some Tamil Nadu politicians who repeatedly speak out in support of those who are attempting to gain petty advantage by spreading rumours like these should be condemned. We suspect that these politicians are repeatedly spreading these fabricated and baseless rumours due to their obligations to our business competitors," it said, without naming anyone.
 
 Lyca Production has also sent a notice to TVK leader T Velmurugan for alleged defamatory comments made by him on a live TV news channel debate on Lyca's alleged "nexus" with Rajapaksa. Denying any nexus, the company said that statement has "defamed" and caused "financial loss" to Lyca Group and asked for an "unconditional apology" and compensation of Rs 10 crore.
 
 VCK founder Thol Thirumavalavan refuted Lyca's charges."Rajinikanth's trip should not give the impression that the ruling Sinhalese government is doing good for the Tamils in Sri Lanka. That is the only reason why we opposed his visit," he told reporters on Sunday, adding that they there was no need for their party to stoop to the level of "opposing Lyca or seek publicity by opposing Rajinikanth."
 
 
