NEW DELHI: As the news of the brutal rape of   on a cold December night spread, students and activists took to the streets, outraged over the extent to which humans could fall. A   emerged that mobilised people and pushed them to fight in face of lathicharge. Today, over four years later, assaults and rape far more brutal still claim hundreds of women but there are no protests. Those who started the fire claim it is the snail’s pace at which the justice system moves and the government that have doused it.

 Mushtaq, one of the then   students who had taken part in the protests, said all kinds of people had joined because they had been shaken. “It was not any political party that mobilised the crowd, it was the common man that went to India Gate,” he said. “The case changed the narrative. It got extensive media coverage, people became aware. It was not acceptable to keep quiet any longer,” he said. 
 
 But somewhere, he said, the movement got politicised and people lot interest. “In the momentum, a lot of proposals were made, but the movement also got politicised. People saw political parties taking over the movement. Changes took place in the political scenario, and promises were made but never followed through. That disappointment killed the movement,” he said.
 
 “It took them four years to punish the perpetrators. This is despite the fact that we have fast-track courts and changes in procedure to register complaints faster,” said Rohit Chahal, national media in-charge of BJP’s youth wing, who was a member of ABVP in JNU in 2012. “Rapes still take place, some far more hideous than that of Nirbhaya. And people are still angry. But it is the slow deliverance of justice that holds them back,” he said.
 
 Sucheta De of All India Students Association claims the movement is very much alive but “the struggle for protection of women has been betrayed”. She argues: “There still needs to be 100% conviction in rape and assault cases. Also, the majority is still patriarchal. We have had political leaders and lawyers of the accused arguing that women like Nirbhaya must be taught a lesson for daring to go out with a male friend that late at night.” People are being mobilised in the name of religion, like in the case of love jihad, she says. “There are anti-Romeo squads in UP to separate and punish two consenting adults who choose to go out with each other.”
 
 Shehla Rashid, another JNU research scholar and left student activist, says the country has been in “reverse gear” after the December 16 rape. “After the 2012 rape and murder, we demanded women’s freedom, autonomy, equality and rights. Now, we have to deal with anti-Romeo squads harassing consenting couples, inter-caste couples, etc,” she said.
 
 According to Gopika Bashi, a women’s rights campaigner with Amnesty International: “This movement was a landmark because it changed the laws and violence against women was considered in an extensive way. However, the causes and incidence of violence are much more in-depth and structural,” she says.
 
 
