HYDERABAD: When she   in the Telugu film 'Maisamma IPS', released in 2008, actress   could hardly have imagined that she would one day have to face the law herself. In that film, produced by Dasari Narayana Rao, Mumait Khan played a tough police officer, out to punish the guilty.

 The 31-year-old, who claimed to be innocent in the drugs issue being probed by the excise department, is scheduled to appear before the Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Thursday . Mumait has had to leave the Bigg Boss house in Lonavala near Mumbai to present herself for questioning.
 
 “I have not received any notices,“ she had said in a video she posted when her name cropped up in the drugs case pleading that her name should not be maligned. However, the authorities served her a notice to appear before them at the Bigg Boss house.
 
 Mumait Khan became the toast of Tollywood after her item number in `Munnabhai MBBS' starring Sanjay Dutt in Hindi in 2003 and a few other films.She became a much sought after item girl in the Telugu film industry and went on to act and perform in as many as 40 Telugu films, 20 Hindi films, 16 Tamil films and five Kannada films.
 
 Some of her Telugu films included 'Dictator', 'Kevvu Keka', `Gundello Godari', `Nenu na Rakshasi', `Magadheera', `Target', `Punnami Nagu', 'Dhee ante Dhee', `Nenin the', 'Bujjigadu', `Maisam ma IPS', `Operation Dury odhana', `Pokiri', `Mangatayaru Tif fin Centre', `Operation Duryod hana' and `Chatrapati'.
 
 She also acted as an in spector in `Evadait he Nakenti'.
 
 After her interro gation by the SIT, Mumait is likely to return to the Bigg Boss Telugu show. Mumait had survived the first round of elimination on the show that took place recently .
 
 Meanwhile, actress-politician Roja criticized the SIT for summoning film personalities for investigation in the drugs case. “This is being done just to gain some publicity ,“ she said.The YSRCP MLA, however, made it clear that she was not against taking action against anyone, whoever big it may be.
 
 Director  , who has been following the drugs case, could not resist making a comment about actress Charmme, who was questioned by the SIT on Wednesday .
 
 “Going by Charmme's contended and ultra happy expression, it looked as if it is she who interrogated their team,“ he remarked on FB .
 
