NAGPUR: With the appointment of 460 examiners, the office of   is aiming to reduce the backlog by over half till March 2018.

 This was informed by joint controller of  , who was in the city to hold a training session for representatives of BRICS countries at the Rajiv Gandhi National Institute of   Management here on Wednesday.
 
 The backlog, which has reached over 1.7 lakh, has been due to shortage of patent examiners who study the case and declare it fit to be patented.
 
 Once an application is submitted with the  , it has to be examined to establish the uniqueness of the products concerned. 
 
 Kardam, while talking to TOI, said the patent office, which needs another 400 examiners to get the full strength, is now expecting to bring down the backlog to 2 years in clearing a case as against 4 to 5 years. At present, the country has over 600 examiners, he said.
 
 Kardam further said, “Only 252 posts were sanctioned in 2014 as against the demand of 505. In 2016, 47,000 patents were filed with 46,000 a year before. 
 
 Talking about startups, the government’s brainchild, Kardam said there is a special priority for startups these days.
 
 “The fee has been slashed to Rs 1,600 as against Rs 8,000 for a company. In case of an international patent, if the startup chooses the Indian patent office as search agency, the work will be done on priority basis. There is also a scheme for providing patent facilitators for the startups and the fee charged by the facilitators is reimbursed by the government,” he said.
 
 On the training of BRICS officials, he said the focus is on the system of having compulsory licence under Indian patent laws. “Under this, a patent held by a company can be made open to use by others. This can happen if the patent is not being used in the country or the cost of the item is extremely high,” he said, adding, “in 2012 compulsory licence was granted to a cancer drug by German company Bayer Corporation. After this the drug’s price was reduced to Rs 8,000 for a month’s dose as against Rs 2.3 lakh. 
 
