The   had set a revolutionary precedent way back in 1920 by opening sporting facilities for women, the first club in Pune to do so. Almost a century on, the elite club has displayed the very parochialism it had gone beyond, by sacking a female employee just because she approached the cops to file a complaint against a male colleague who was stalking her.
 
  Office-bearers of the club have decided not to allow a female worker from working within its premises, alleging that she and her brother-in-law assaulted one of their permanent employees, Malhari Waghmare, on their campus over a molestation issue. They even refused to believe that Waghmare was the lady’s stalker. While the club has stopped the lady and her brother-in-law from working at its The Fitness Floor gym where they were employed, the   have registered a case of stalking against Waghmare and arrested him.
  
  On Friday, the 31-year-old woman approached the Deccan police station to register an FIR against Malhari, who works as a housekeeper in one of the pavilions at the Gymkhana. She told the cops that for a few days in the beginning of March, Waghmare had stalked her and followed her home.
  
  “He was on the bike while I was walking. He would wait for me to go ahead, ride past me and then go ahead and wait. I tried changing my route three times, so that the issue would not escalate. But he refused to let go. I finally told my brother-in-law and husband about the issue,” said the woman, who was clearly terrified by the incident.
 
 On Monday, the lady and her brother-in-law had confronted Waghmare over the stalking incident. A heated argument ensued and, according to sources, the duo assaulted Waghmare. Following this, the Gymkhana called for a meeting on Tuesday, where everyone was questioned about the scuffle. “When they asked us the reason for the fight, we informed them about the stalking. That is when the members told me that I had probably been mistaken and that Waghmare was not the guy stalking me. I was certain that it was him and I tried telling the members, but in vain,” she rued.
  
  On Friday, even as she was at the Deccan police station recording her statement for the FIR,  , her employer who runs The Fitness Floor, got a letter from the Gymkhana management, asking him not to allow the lady and her brother-in-law into the campus.
  
  The order read, “An incident of heated argument and beating up has occurred on Monday, March 20, 2017, at around 9.30 pm within the Deccan Gymkhana premises, near  , between Mr Malhari Pandurang Waghmare, a permanent employee of Deccan Gymkhana, and the victim (name withheld to protect her identity), employed as lady housekeeper at the gymnasium by your company. Mr Waghmare was also beaten up and abused by the victim’s brother-in-law (name withheld to protect victim’s identity), a male housekeeper employed by your company. The matter has been viewed very seriously by the Deccan Gymkhana Management. The employees union has raised an issue of safety and security of the Deccan Gymkhana employee. I, the undersigned, hereby inform you that as per the direction given by Mr Ajay Gupte, honorable general secretary, the lady and her brother-in-law are not allowed to enter the premises of the Gymkhana for any purpose till further notice.”
 
 The letter ended by informing Shaikh that a meeting to discuss the issue would be held on Wednesday, March 29, where he was requested to be present. When 
 got in touch with Shaikh to ask him if he had received any such orders, he confirmed, “Yes, I have received the orders, but I do not wish to comment any further.”
  
  When 
 queried with Deccan Gymkhana secretary Gupte about the ousting order, he shrugged it off as the usual practice, saying, “Issuing orders to the gym owner that the woman and her brother-in-law will not be allowed inside the Gymkhana premises is routine procedure. We do this even with members when they misbehave on campus. Whether her services are to be terminated or not is the gym owner’s responsibility. As far as the stalking incident is concerned, it did not happen on the campus and so has nothing to do with the Gymkhana.”
  
  The Gymkhana’s general manager, retired Lt Col Deepak Agashe, insisted, “When we investigated the fight, we were told about the stalking and we asked around and inquired about it as well. Nowhere did it come to light that Waghmare could have been the stalker. We spoke to his colleagues and even his family. In my opinion, it is a case of mistaken identity.”
  
  Meanwhile, sub-inspector Chandrakant Lokhare from Deccan police station confirmed that Waghmare has been booked under Section 354(D) of the Indian Penal Code for stalking. “We produced the accused in court and he has been sent to jail,” he said.
