NAGPUR: Inclusion of Hudkeshwar and   in   limits in 2013 is set to help the ruling   in the upcoming election.

 Residents say the decision actually opened doors for developmental works. Many projects including cement roads, erection of high mast lights and development of crematoriums have took off in these previously neglected areas.
 
 In May 2013, the Congress-led state government passed a resolution about inclusion of these two gram panchayats in city limits. After   came to power in the state, the   focused on these two areas in Kamptee constituency of state assembly. NMC even received special grants from state government to improve civic infrastructure in Hudkeshwar and Narsala.
 
 The BJP was keen that these villages merge with the civic body before civic polls. The party believes that people living in these areas have been traditional BJP voters. 
 
 “The merger of these villages in the NMC limit will help BJP to increase their seats in the polls,” said Satish Manapure, a resident of Hudkeshwar.
 
 Both villages were added to the municipal limits following efforts of district guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule. This increased the city’s area by 9.72 sq km to 227.37 sq km. The NMC could not undertake many development works here due to lack of funds. “They didn’t even have tar roads, street lights, sewage system and drinking water network,” former chairperson of Hudkeshwar Panchayat Samiti Ajay Bodhade told TOI.
 
 The NMC prepared a Rs63.05 crore proposal to strengthen drinking water supply system in Hudkeshwar and Narsala. The state government contributed 80% of this amount. Both standing committee and general body too extended support for the development of these areas.
 
 Lilawati Bhalerao, a resident of Narsala, said the pace of development works increased manifold. Condition of roads too improved. TOI too spotted cement road works going on in both the localities. NMC officials said they were carrying out road works worth Rs17 crore in Narsala and Rs14 crore in Hudkeshwar.
 
 Subhangi Chintalwar, a resident of Hudkeshwar, alleged that the development works in these areas are being focused on some localities to favour some builders, which has left many residents angry. Another resident Prakash Ingole said, “Moreover, the ongoing civic work, too, is going on at a snail’s pace. So many residents will vote for other parties.”
 
 Atul Pedgaonkar, a resident of Narsala, claimed that their locality was not in favour of the saffron party. “The NMC is focusing more on Hudkeshwar, ignoring civic amenities here. Although the areas were included in NMC limits five years ago, we still do not get piped drinking water. So we will vote for  ,” he said. 
 
 Echoing Pedgaonkar’s thoughts, Rakesh Dorkhande said, “I shifted to my new flat in Narsala over a year ago. I had hoped that NMC would widen the roads. However, even though more flat schemes are coming up, the roads remain narrow, leading to traffic jams during peak hours.” 
 
 
