SALEM: Two women, one of them a journalism student, were arrested for distributing pamphlets containing ‘anti-national’ content to students of the Government Arts College for Women at Gorimedu here on Wednesday.

 According to the  , the pamphlets sought support against the hydro carbon project at Neduvasal and also condemned the attack on protesters at Kathiramangalam.
 
 The arrest was made after the police got a tip that two women were distributing handbills in front of the college at Gorimedu. “Some students alerted us and we deployed a team led by Ammapet inspector   to nab the duo,” the police said.
 
 The arrested were identified as Valarmathi, 22, of Vidya Nagar near Ammapet and Jayanthi, 37, of Veeranam, on outskirt of the city. Valarmathi is a second year journalism and mass communication student of Periyar University.
 
 Police said Valarmathi was the state general secretary of banned outfits Eeyarkai Pathukappu Kuzhu and Pothu Nala Maanava Yeluchi. They, however, denied reports that she was either a Naxal or a Maoist. “She had been under our scanner as she used to instigate the public against the government through pamphlets,” a senior police officer said. He said Valarmathi had more than six cases pending against her in Coimbatore, Salem, Trichy and Kancheepuram.
 
 When some social activists came to know about Valarmathi’s arrest, they rushed to the all-women police station in the city where the women were detained. But the police did not let them meet the duo.
 
 Activist   said the duo was arrested illegally. “They were just creating awareness on the project’s impact on the environment by circulating the pamphlets. The police should release them at the earliest,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Valarmathi sneaked out of the police station and told reporters that she was severely beaten up by police. “I am not a Naxalite or a Maoist,” she said.
 
 The Kannankuruchi police have registered cases against the duo under Sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot - if rioting be committed - if not committed) and 505(i)(b) (with an intent to cause, or likely to cause fear or alarm to the public or to a section of the public whereby any person may be induced to commit an offence against the state or against public tranquillity) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 7(1) of the Criminal Law Amendment Act.
 
 The two were produced before a local court which remanded them in judicial custody. The duo was later lodged in the Salem Central Prison for women.
 
 On April 14, Valarmathi, along with a few students, was arrested while she was on her way to Neduvasal. She had then alleged that Trichy prison officials had tortured her and forced her to remove her dress.
 
