Ahmedabad: Early on Sunday morning, two friends on a joyride lost control over their SUV near Vastrapur lake and the vehicle somersaulted, after skidding at high speed. A Division traffic police have registered a case of rash driving, causing grievous hurt by an act endangering life and causing death by negligence.

 According to police, Chirag Rajani, a resident of Bodakdev, was standing outside Sanjeevani Hospital at 1.45am on Sunday. His father had been admitted to the hospital for treatment of an injury and he had come out for a while. At the time, he along with his friend witnessed the  . The vehicle coming from the direction of NFD Circle towards the Vastrapur lake was flung in the air and fell on its side with a bang while hitting a roadside tree outside Sunrise Park Tenement.
 
 “Rajani and others rushed to the vehicle. Both occupants of the SUV had been hurled outside the vehicle from the front windshield,” said an investigator. “While one of the teens was found near the vehicle, the other was thrown over 15 feet from the vehicle. The teen near the car was identified as Nischal Jain, 17, a resident of Orient Apartments, Usmanpura. He died on the spot.”
 
 The other teen, Vedant Patel, 16, a resident of Dariapur Patel Society, Usmanpura, was unconscious and was taken to a nearby hospital where he died soon after.
 
 Sources said that Vedant was the son of a director of a city-based oil company whereas Nischal’s father is a businessman. Nischal was behind the wheel when the accident occurred. The sources said that both studied in class XII at St Xavier’s School and had got together on Saturday to study. The car belonged to Vedant’s family and Nischal had come to Vedant’s other residence in Thaltej to study. It is possible that they had gone out early in the morning to get some air, said sources. Family members were inconsolable and could not be contacted for comment.
 
 K D Nakum, the inspector of A Division traffic police station, said that CCTV footage shows how the accident had occurred. “The car was in great speed and suddenly skidded and fell on the side,” he said. “We will rope in forensic experts to ascertain what caused the accident.” Investigators said that the rear left wheel was found flat from the spot. Investigators said that the layer of gravel after rains on the stretch might have contributed to the accident.
 
 
