COLVA: In the male-dominated world of judiciary, there is a silver lining in Goa as women judges far outnumber their male counterparts in 50 courtrooms across the state. Of the 41 courtrooms functioning—nine are vacant—29 of them are presided over by women judges.

 In   district, 14 women judges rule the 27 courtrooms, of which four are vacant. While in   district, 15 women judges preside over 23 courtrooms, of which five are vacant.
 
 It is work-life balance that has made most women judges opt for a career on the bench, reckon former and sitting judges. “The stress levels working as an advocate or a judge is the same, but it looks like they have opted for the bench to make time for family life,” said retired principal district and sessions judge Desmond D’Costa.
 
 D’Costa has seen a steady rise in the number of women advocates applying and being selected on the bench during the past two recruitment cycles.
 
 “Practicing as a lawyer is much more lucrative than sitting on the bench, but over the years, the remunerations have increased substantially and may be for women it balances with their family life,” said another senior judge.
 
 A sitting woman judge said she opted for the bench “for the sake of making a name in society. Continuing to practice as a lawyer would have taken me much longer. It is easier for young women lawyers to climb the ladder of fame faster if either of their parents are lawyers.”
 
 The woman judge said though she was earning better as a lawyer, it meant sacrificing the family life. “Being on the bench gives you the quality time with your family. The stress levels are the same as you have to study the cases,” she said.
 
 Margao based lawyer   said as far as efficiency is considered, it is the individual’s capacity and gender does not play a role.
 
 Lawyer   also felt that whether the judge was male or female did not matter. But she said when it came to cases like domestic violence or women sensitive cases, women judges showed more sensitivity and pronounced better judgments than the male judges.
 
 
