GANDHINAGAR: It has been just a week since hardline leader of the   (VHP), Dr Pravin Togadia, spoke at the   held in GMDC grounds. Speaking at the conference, Togadia made it amply clear that after the BJP’s victory in UP, one should expect a resurgence of communal rhetoric in the run-up to Gujarat elections. 

  From Saturday night onwards, VHP members have begun painting walls of university campuses in Ahmedabad, including  , with warnings to Hindu girls about ‘Love Jihad’. 
 
 This is the first time after 2002 that the VHP has become active ahead of an election in Gujarat. VHP teams have started visiting campuses to talk to youth in Ahmedabad and strengthen its network in educational institutions. 
 
 At the GMDC meeting last week, senior VHP leaders had stated that they would intensify awareness activities for a new law to control polygamy as well as the population of Mulsim community. Several VHP leaders had praised certain steps taken by the new UP chief minister   soon after assuming office. They had also praised Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani for a harsher new law in the state against cow slaughter. 
 
  Since 2003, the VHP was maintaining a low profile in the state, claiming that it was trying to build a ‘soft image’ of the organisation in sectors like social welfare, health awareness and education. But the Parishad’s activities now are beginning to acquire the hardline Hindutva colour. 
 
 General secretary, VHP (Gujarat), Ranchhod Bharwad, said that for more than a decade,  , Durga Vahini and even the Parishad had been working to build mass awareness against ‘Love Jihad’. 
 
 “During our national convention in Nagpur a few months back as well as the Virat Hindu Sammelan in Ahmedabad, we pledged to save Hindu girls from becoming victims of ‘Love Jihad’ (marriage between Hindu girls and Muslim boys),” Bharwad said. “We have now started awareness activities in universities, colleges and schools against Love Jihad and will intensify this in the coming days.”
 
 When asked why the Parishad had suddenly become active when the assembly elections were close, Bharawad claimed the spurt in the VHP’s activities had nothing to do with the upcoming elections. “VHP is carrying out awareness activities across the country. We do it regularly,” Bharwad said.
 
 
 
 
