SURAT: Three youths from Katargam’s Udaynagar locality, who had reportedly consumed liquor, died at   (SMC)-run SMIMER Hospital on Sunday even as memories of Vareli hooch tragedy in Palsana taluka are still fresh in the minds of people here. 

 Family members of deceased  , 30;  , 28; and Tenaji Thakor said they had allegedly consumed country liquor to celebrate Uttarayan on January 14. On the next day, the trio, employed as diamond workers, began to vomit and complained of pain in the stomach. They were shifted to SMIMER Hospital on January 15 but while one died on his way to the hospital, the other two breathed their last during treatment on Sunday night. However, the city police have refuted the claim of the family members that the trio had died after having consumed liquor on Uttarayan and said they are strictly implementing prohibition laws particularly after the hooch tragedy at Vareli village in Palsana taluka of Surat that claimed 21 lives three months ago. 
 
 Jayambe Thakor, a relative of deceased Tenaji Thakor, said, “All three of them had gone to consume country liquor being sold in the vicinity on Uttarayan. Tenaji’s health deteriorated the next day. His eyes were red, he profusely vomited and complained of severe stomach pain. Thus, we rushed him to the hospital, but he was declared dead. The hospital administration said Tenaji was suffering from cancer and died from it. We are unaware about any such disease that he was suffering from and refuse to buy this theory.”
 
 Surat District Thakor Sena president   said, “I talked to the family members of Tenaji Thakor and they confirmed that he had consumed liquor the other day and died. It is a reality that country liquor is still available in various parts of the city, even after so many deaths due to it in September last year.”
 
 Police commissioner   told TOI, “Nothing is confirmed so far. All three cases were brought to SMIMER Hospital and none of them is suspected to have died after having consumed liquor. One of the deceased was suffering from cancer. Nevertheless, we are sending the blood samples of the deceased for examination and also carrying out raids in the area concerned.” 
 
