NAGPUR: People from different strata of life came on a common platform and shared their views on the functioning of the   and also underlined the need to   between cops and common man for a cohesive relationship. 

 ‘Mi police commissioner...’, a programme organized by   and Nagpur unit of Yashwantrao Chavan Pratishthan at Shrimant   on Friday, served the purpose as people frankly put forth their opinion on a number of subjects in the presence of  , commissioner of police. 
 
 In his address, Venkatesh admitted that ground realities cannot be known by moving around in an AC car. Regular interactions, coupled with proper feedback from people, can go a long way in solving their problems and remove the fear of even approaching the police, he added. 
 
 Former Supreme Court judge  , who presided over the programme, said that the police should act as friends of people and treat them with respect. He also touched on the issue of people criticizing the police who are always on their toes despite the fact that they do not get sufficient facilities.
 
 Dr Ved Prakash Mishra, chancellor of Krishna Institute of Medical Science, Karad, said, “Police should be interactive, dynamic and accessible. There is a need to build a bridge between police and society. If police fail, it is not commissioner’s failure, but of the society. Therefore, they should work hand-in-hand.” 
 
 Supriya Iyer, a well-known writer, said, “Common people have a feeling of fear about policemen. To eradicate fear, police should hold public meetings so that they can come together. Sensitization programmes should also be carried by the police department to make it more caring towards society.”
 
 Ranjeet Meshram, a social worker, said, “As a police commissioner, I will never discriminate between poor and the rich. VIP treatment given to a select few should be stopped. A commissioner should have reliable sources to understand the real situation of a city.” 
 
 Senior journalist SN Vinod said, “We have seen incidents where police are pressured by politicians. A police officer should never bow down to political pressure.”
 
 Those present were Girish Gandhi, Zamin Amin, Sagar Khadiwala, Gauri Patil and others.
 
