 Peeved at his “unceremonious removal” as Bihar Pradesh   Committee ( ) president,   on Wednesday accused AICC general secretary and in-charge of Bihar affairs,  , of misleading the party central leadership.
 
  “I welcome the party’s decision. But I never expected the way I was removed from the post. The unceremonious removal of a dalit person, whose two generations worked for strengthening Congress in Bihar, is very insulting and unfortunate,” Choudhary told reporters a day after Sonia Gandhi removed him as the state Congress president.
  
  “Joshi has been misleading the party high command for the last six months and accused me of trying to split Congress in the state. Joshi, instead of informing the media that I have been removed, should have told me first about the party’s decision. The process of my removal was not handled with required sensitivity, because I am a dalit. Every dog has its day. Today, he proved mightier against me, tomorrow I might be so against him,” an emotionally charged Choudhary said and added that his party should have given him a chance of ‘graceful exit’ by asking him to resign.
  
  Accusing him of promoting groups in Bihar Congress, Choudhary said Joshi has been the party in-charge of Assam and   as well. “If he is a capable leader, why Congress didn’t perform better in those states,” he asked and alleged that Joshi had been pressuring him to quit the party post because he wanted a particular person to replace him as state Congress chief. “Congress lost elections in Assam and West Bengal because of Joshi’s inefficiency,” Choudhary alleged.
  
  Choudhary said it was during his tenure that the number of Congress MLAs rose to 27 from only four last time. “I have been working for the party since my student life as NSUI member. Two generations of my family have worked for the party in Bihar since 1952,” he said while referring to his father Mahavir Choudhary, who was   several times and also served as a minister in successive Congress governments in the state.
  
  Asked about his next move, Choudhary said he was yet to decide. “Right now, I am not going anywhere,” he clarified.
  
  Asked about media reports that majority of his party MLAs were planning to cross over to JD(U), Choudhary only said being a Congress minister, he had a good working relationship with Bihar CM Nitish Kumar.
