HYDERABAD: In a major relief to lakhs of parents, several schools in the city have now   for the academic year 2017-18 that ran up to a steep `1-2 lakh until last year.

 The rollback of the capitation one-time fee comes months after the admission process began in November 2016. Parents say that the move was long overdue.
 
 “The school management recently circulated a message to all parents that no admissioncapitation fee will be charged this year for new admissions,“ said Chikkam Satyanarayana, a parent, whose two children are studying at Meridian School. The school charged over `1 lakh towards capitation fee until the last academic year, several parents said.
 
 The management of   in Banjara Hills too has resorted to a similar mo ve. “Until last year, the school charged a admission fee of `50,000 and a caution deposit of `10,000. But now, for admissions to PP1 (pre-primary 1), the school has reduced the fee by almost 80 per cent,“ said Sakina Fathima, parent of three junior school students.
 
 The other schools that have reduced their admission fee charges, parents said, include Manthan International School, Oakridge International, Delhi Public School, Hyderabad Public School, Epitome Global School, Glendale Academy, Rockwell International School, Chaitanya Vidyalaya in lower Tank Bund, among many others.
 
 Members of the   (HSPA), which has been spearheading the movement against school fee hike in the city, attributed the move to increased awareness among parents about the law on school fee. “Sustained campaigning from our end about the `5,000 limit rule on one-time feecapitation fee as per GO Ms 91, 2009 has made parents aware.Apart from this, a PIL filed in the   and FIRs against a few erring school might have also led to fear among school managements that has now suddenly reduced the school fee,“ said Ashish Naredi, executive member of HSPA. But while the lowering of fee has come as good news for parents seeking new admissions, they rue how there's been little relief for parents who had paid huge sums in the past.“Those seeking fresh admissions for their wards can rejoice. But, the government has to step in and regulate the school fee at the earliest so that all parents can benefit,“ said  , another member of HSPA.
 
 When TOI contacted school managements over slashing of capitation fee, they refrained from commenting. Instead, some maintained that they never charged one-timecapitation fee.
 
