Lucknow: UP chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi’s claim of running the state without any incidence of riots fell flat when it witnessed   in a number of districts on Sunday, during Dussehra and  .

 The communal skirmishes left people, including policemen, injured while private and government property were set on fire. However, curfew was not imposed in any part of the state.
 
 Yogi had said that “400 communal incidents took place during the Akhilesh Yadav government but not a single incident after BJP took over.”
 
 Sources in the government said that in most of the cases, inputs from local intelligence units (LIUs), feedback from party workers and other informal sources had alerted top authorities in Lucknow to the need of preventive measures to defuse a build up between the two communities, but no timely intervention was made to de-escalate the tension.
 
 In Barabanki, a BJP leader had written to the chief minister, asking for strict action against DM and SP for not taking steps to mitigate vitiating atmosphere.
 
 The most serious incident was reported from Kanpur, where members of the two communities clashed in Juhi-Parampurwa, a Muslim-dominated pocket in the heart of the city.
 
 Sourvces said that the LIU had alerted that on Dussehra day, a few VHP functionaries had disrupted the preparations of Moharram procession in Rawatpur, on the outskirts of the city, and if preventive measures were not adopted, there were possibilities of a retaliation.
 
 More than a dozen persons were injured in Kanpur, before the situation could be brought under control, while tension still looms large over the city.
 
 Similar incident was reported from Sikanderpur in Ballia district, where local BJP MLAs and the LIU had alerted the administration, but the Tazia bearers clashed with the administration and the public while refusing to follow the traditional route.
 
 Communal skirmishes were also reported from Barabanki, Pratapgarh, Amethi, Shravasti, Pilibhit ,Sambhal and Bareilly during Dussehra festivities and Muharrum mourning, which were held on September 30 and October 1.
 
 In Pratapgarh, amidst mounting communal tension, the district administration had put the “raja” of erstwhile Bhadri Estate Udai Pratap Singh under house arrest and did not allow him to hold a “bhandara” on Saturday. However, speaking to TOI, independent MLA Raghuraj Pratap Singh alias Raja Bhaiyya denied any communal tension, but confirmed the house arrest of his father.
 
 
