Chennai: Tamil Nadu’s manufacturing sector’s share in net state domestic product has come down by 2.6% between 2012-13 and 2016-17. Data released by Reserve Bank of India shows that either the number of new investments made in state has come down or the present industries were not using their full capacity. 

 Economic experts told TOI that with the lowering of share of manufacturing sector in the Tamil Nadu NDP would have hit employment opportunities and government’s tax income. The net domestic product accounts for capital that has been consumed over the year in the form of housing, vehicle, or machinery deterioration. 
 
 While in 2012-13, the share of manufacturing sector was 21.60% and in 2016-17 it has come down to 19%. “The share of manufacturing sector going down in the NDP is a clear indication of lower industrial growth. Despite having all infrastructure for companies to set up their units, Tamil Nadu has not been able to woo such companies,” a financial analyst said. 
 
 Incidentally, Tamil Nadu has also recorded the lowest growth in the manufacturing sector during 2016-17. The state has recorded a mere 1.65% growth compared to last year, while neighbouring states like Andhra Pradesh has recorded 10.36% and Telangana 7.1% in the same year. 
 
 “The loss of share in NDP will hit the government’s tax income. Unless there are more manufacturing companies which are producing commodities, the government will not get its tax income and since 2013-14, the state government has not been able to touch its tax income target,” said the analyst. 
 
 On the employment side too the loss of share in the NDP means employees will not be able to get a better wage or salary. “It is only in the manufacturing companies, employees will be able to get higher wages or salary and it is also only in such companies people from the state where the company is set up will be able to get employment,” said the analyst. 
 
 “The overall manufacturing growth across India is not good. The general mood among investors, especially in manufacturing industries, is yet to pick up. But in Tamil Nadu local factors in the last year has also affected even if the state has very good infrastructure compared to other states,” former Planning Commission member Abhijit Sen told TOI. 
 
 Data on manufacturing growth for Maharasthra or Gujarat is not available. “Even Maharashtra and Gujarat may have had a lower manufacturing growth but in Tamil Nadu the local factor has played a major part,” said Sen. 
 
 eom 
 
 
