HOWRAH: A traffic constable and a civic police volunteer (CPV) of the Howrah City Police were seriously injured after they were attacked by two motorcycle-borne youths near   on Saturday afternoon. One of the youths have been arrested along with a minor who was also riding pillion on the motorcycle. The main accused, who assaulted the policeman and CPV , managed to escape.

 Constable   (50) and CPV Rohit De (27) were on duty at   near Howrah Maidan around 2.30pm on Saturday when they were alerted over their walkietalkies of three persons on a motorcycle speeding towards them from the Pilkhana side.They were informed that the three, without helmets, had broken several traffic signals, smashed into bicycles and sped towards their location.
 
 Aari immediately switched all signals to red and spotted the motorcycle approach at high speed. At the crossing, the motorcyclist broke the signal yet again and tried to speed away towards Panchanantala.Aari rushed forward with his baton and attempted to stop the motorcycle when the rider kicked him with his left leg.De, who had also rushed, managed to grab hold of the rear of the motorcycle and it toppled. “This was when the youth sitting in the middle got off and started beating Aari and De with an iron rod he was carrying. When locals rushed to their rescue, the iron rod-wielding youth attacked them too.At that time, a   reached the spot and the youth jumped into it. Locals could not grab him as the Toto sped away .They succeeded in surrounding the other two though, including the youth who had kicked Aari,“ a police officer said.
 
 During preliminary interrogation, the minor said that he had been offered Rs 1,000 to accompany the youths on a certain `mission'. The youth who was arrested was identified as Md  , a history sheeter from Pilkhana. He also told the police that the youth who managed to escape had offered him money for use of the motorcycle.
 
 “We suspect that the three were on their way to commit a crime. Aari's right leg is broken and he has several other injuries on the torso. De also received injuries,“ said Mani Shankar Sengupta, OC, Howrah police station.
 
