GURUGRAM: A host of societies and condominiums have begun   segregation and   in the city, showing the way to others at a time when MCG is planning to impose a   on co-operatives which are disposing   untreated.

 A number of societies, namely Garden Estate, Hamilton Court, Vipul Greens, Vastu CGHS and Nirvana Country, have joined hands with different NGOs to treat garbage on their own. Some of these societies claim to have been doing it for years now. 
 
 “We started waste   and composting four years ago. We invested around Rs 5 lakh to put in place composting machines and made it mandatory for residents to segregate their waste if they wanted their waste to be disposed of properly,” said Dr Krishna Bhat,   president at Hamilton Court. Bhat, who claimed to have asked the former civic commissioner to make composting mandatory a couple of times, welcomed the MCG move. 
 
 At Vastu CHGS society, located in Sector 55, residents started waste composting in January, 2015, though it wasn’t mandatory then. “Some residents were reluctant to invest in waste treatment machineries while others were pissed off with the smell coming from composting. Hence, we had made it optional,” said Abhay Gupta, a resident from the society, which had invested Rs 1.78 lakh for the purpose. In 2015, Vastu CHGS was adjudged second among the 31 green societies from across the country by the Union ministry of urban development under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. 
 
 An NGO, Greenbandhu, had helped both the societies install the garbage treatment system. 
 
 Garden Estate, with 373 houses located next to Guru Dronacharya Metro station, started waste composting as a pilot in October 2015. But, it was fully implemented in the whole society in 2016. The society has also made it mandatory for its residents to segregate waste. “It is the duty of every citizen to manage their waste properly. We cannot keep waiting for the government to announce laws or incentives (for the same)” said Keshav Jaini, a resident and executive member of RWA.
 
 Similarly, Vipul Greens on Sohna Road recently started composting. 
 
 Nirvana Country residents had invested Rs 2.25 crores to convert their society into a zero waste society last year. The residents have installed two plants — one to treat kitchen and green waste and another to recycle sewage. 
 
 
