MUMBAI: A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences ( ) Act court convicted and sentenced a 44-year-old man to life imprisonment on Monday for   his   daughter twice in 2013. The accused had even forced the then 14-year-old to falsely implicate two men from the neighbourhood for the crime, but cops caught on and requested the child to reveal the truth. 

 The accused suffered from  . In her statement to the court, the   said that she too had been infected with the condition as a child and both her mother and biological   had it. The accused and the victim’s mother were not officially married but lived together. 
 
 The girl was 16 years old when she deposed before the court in 2015. Her nine-page statement reveals that she repeatedly broke down during her testimony. The girl said her biological father died in 2003 after which she, her mother and brother were forced to move out of their Nashik family home by her paternal uncle. She then came to live with her maternal grandmother and uncle in the city. Sometime later, the family moved in with the accused. She further said the couple repeatedly fought and on one occasion, the accused threw a cooker at her mother and another time, a hammer. The girl said her mother died in December 2012 after which she once again began to live with the paternal side of her family. 
 
 She said her uncle moved her to a hostel but she could not adjust there. This was when her foster father brought her back to the city to live with him and his family. The girl stated that she was forced to leave school and do domestic work. Revealing the first instance, the girl said on May 11, 2013, she was alone at home with the accused as the other family members had gone to Gujarat. When she went to the toilet at night, the accused barged in, bolted the door and sexually assaulted her. The girl said she fell unconscious and after she came around, went into her room and slept. She said he raped her again a few days later and repeatedly beat her. He also threatened to kill her brother if she reported the crime. 
 
 After the second incident, the girl said she fell very ill. Fearing that she would report the crime, the accused himself called the cops and forced the minor to tell them that she was raped by two men in the locality. The girl said she was forced to lie to the cops and the doctor who examined her as the accused had accompanied her. She said the cops caught the two persons but later suspected her of lying. The girl said when the cops took her to the police station and told her about how two innocent men had been picked up, she finally told them the truth. The accused was arrested. The victim identified him in court and broke down on seeing him. 
 
 
