MUMBAI: The   has decided to initially allow free entry to the penguin enclosure, when it partially reopens   zoo. The BMC is expediting work to set up the penguin enclosure and plans to open it to the public at the end of January or by the first half of February. It has decided to keep entry free till March 31 and thereafter charge Rs 50 for a kid and Rs 100 for an adult.

 On Saturday, the civic administration brought a proposal before a group leaders' meeting to get their approval for visitor ticket pricing to view the aquatic exhibit area.Group leaders--senior corporators from different political parties--suggested delaying the pricing decision as the civic authority was yet to finalise the date to open the penguin exhibit to the public. But it finally decided to charge visitors from April 1. The civic authority is expecting the penguin enclosure to draw around 8,000 visitors per day. Entry for BMC school students will be free. A family of four will also be charged a concessional rate with free entry for two children and only their parents will have to pay.
 
 BMC commissioner   said, “We are predominantly encouraging fami lies and kids. After opening the penguin area, we will allow visitors free till the end of the financial year (March 31) after which we will charge an entry fee.“
 
 The BMC may implement the rates decided now, unless the group leaders demand any further change. The group leaders approved the pricing after the civic administration informed them that various foreign zoos charge a heavy sum as entry fees. The BMC brought eight Humboldt   from the South Korean capital of   in July last year, but the contractor appointed by the civic authority was unable to import the special temperature-controlled enclosure required to keep them. The enclosure arrived only a fortnight ago and experts are still trying to set it up, after which the penguins will be moved inside. They will be observed for a few days before the en closure is opened to public.
 
 Activists had earlier slammed the BMC for bringing in the birds without preparation and the issue became more controversial after one of the penguins died due to illness last October. In the past, the civic authority had set three different deadlines, in November and December last year, to open the penguin exhibit to the public but failed to complete the pending work in time.
 
