In a victory of sorts for   led by writer and   and actor  ,   on Monday asked the   to relocate the urinal installed on the Bandstand promenade, saying that it was constructed without following norms.

 The order came after Khan and Rehman, along with other Bandstand residents, met the mayor and demanded that the public loo be shifted someplace else immediately.
 
 After hearing out the delegation, Mahadeshwar, a Shiv Sena corporator, spoke to Assistant Municipal Commissioner of H-West Ward Sharad Ughade, asking him to do the needful.
 
 Officials from Mahadeshwar’s office said that according to BMC norms, suggestions/objections from local residents ought to be taken before setting up toilets at public spaces.
 
 “A public notice has to be issued. None of that was done in this case,” the official said.
 
 The urinal, built by the MHADA in less than two weeks using the local area development funds of BJP MP Poonam Mahajan, is located bang outside Rehman’s home and is close to Galaxy apartments where actor Salman Khan lives.
 
 A controversy arose after over 200 residents opposed its location on the promenade, saying that it would dirty the place and inconvenience residents and walkers alike. It soon turned into a political battle with the mayor on one side and the BJP on the other.
 
 Local Congress corporator Asif Zakaria also sought its shift.
 
 “The state-of-the-art stainless steel urinal was my election promise. Several Bandra Bandstand residents had approached me, demanding a urinal at the promenade for senior citizens. The location was decided by the BMC after a site inspection and not me. I’m giving funds for toilets to improve sanitation in Bandra and also because we are pushing for the Right to Pee campaign,” Mahajan said.
 
 She further stressed that the urinal would be manned round the clock. “It will be a great facility that will bring relief to several senior citizens, who are diabetic and need to visit loos frequently during walks. I got many toilets installed across Bandra but this one at Bandstand is being politicised. It’s part of our larger project to improve sanitation in Bandra. They must give the authorities a chance to run it,” Mahajan said.
 
 Local Yuva Sena activist Rahul Kanal argued that the residents were not against the urinal.
 
 “We only want it to be moved to another place. When an alternative location is available, the BMC must consult local residents and find an amicable solution,” Kanal said.
 
 Salman’s father Salim Khan had also earlier said that they were “not opposed to the idea of having a toilet at bandstand”.
 
 “In fact we had welcomed the initiative. We even held a meeting with BMC officials and asked them to move the toilet to another location where its use will be more effective. If the toilet is built bang in the middle of the promenade, it will create nuisance and be filled with anti-social elements,” Khan had said.
 
 Earlier too, the mayor had intervened in the controversy. He had shot off a letter to the civic body, after which work was stopped for a while.
 
 A senior civic official, however, said that the current location of the toilet was the best. “The spot where the loo currently stands is the best as a lot of people can access it. Still, we are trying to work out a solution in view of the mayor’s order,” the official added.
 
