MUMBAI: The Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Inter Zonal tournament is witnessing an interesting trend. The five participating teams - hosts  , Central Zone,  , North Zone and   - have all opted to field first after the winning the toss at some point. Barring the odd game, teams that have won the toss have successfully chased the target and have ended up winning.

 The only exception was in the match between Central Zone and North Zone on Wednesday. North Zone won the toss and put the opposition in but fell short by four runs. Legspinner Karn Sharma was the hero for Central Zone by picking up three North Zone wickets in his four-over spell.
 
 The Wankhede Stadium here has always offered assistance to speedsters in the first hour of play. Top-order batsmen have always found it tricky to negotiate seamers on the moisture-laden track. While tackling the red SG ball is still not as difficult, the white ball, which tends to move a shade more than the conventional red ball, makes matters worse for batsmen. The steady morning breeze becomes a good friend to the bowler too.
 
 “I think the trend has been such (to elect to field in the morning games). The Wankhede offers a little bit for the faster bowlers early on in the morning and even if it (help from the wicket) is for those three-four overs you rather be getting that in your favour rather than have that going against you. So yeah, I guess that's why the teams are opting to field first,” South Zone opening batsman Mayank Agarwal explained.
 
 Would things be fairer for both teams had the games been scheduled later, say 11am after the pitch dries out?
 
 “I don't think it would have helped. We are all professionals after all. The wicket eases out after one hour or so and becomes good for batting. So yeah it is up to a batsman to decide how he tackles that one hour,” Agarwal, who stroked a match-winning 71 during their Syed Mustaq Ali T20 Inter Zonal league game against West Zone at the Wankhede on Thursday said.
 
 East Zone skipper   is a firm believer in adding runs on the board and then putting pressure on the opposition. But in Mumbai, Tiwary was convinced by his support staff to opt for chasing targets. The move turned to be a bold one because two of his frontline bowlers -   and   had to leave the campaign midway as they got a call-up for India A.
 
 “I like to bat first. But given the track record and statistics at the Wankhede, I was convinced to opt to field,” Tiwary who scored a sublime unbeaten 75 said after the match.
 
