KOLKATA:   may have helped launder black money after   was announced on November 8. Over the last few months, raids conducted by the Crime Intelligence Branch of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) have led to the busting of several fake travel agencies and seizure of documents revealing a large number of tickets were booked online and cancelled using fake IDs. Several computers and hard drives were also recovered.

 “Most of the passenger details are likely to be fake. However, the accused are being grilled for more information. Their modus operandi is simple. These agencies hired touts to create Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation ( ) IDs and book tickets. Each tout created several IDs. People purchased tickets in different names through the touts and paid them in old currency. The agencies then replaced the scrapped notes with new ones after deducting a sizeable commission. They would then deposit the scrapped notes in banks claiming they received them from customers pre-demonetisation. Later, the tickets would be cancelled and the accounts used for booking would get credited automatically,” a senior officer said.
 
 Another   was carried out recently by a team from Sealdah, comprising assistant sub inspector S Saha, M Barua, S S Mondal, N N Das, P K Dey and Sangeeth Kumar. During the raid, a fake travel agency named Parijayee Tour and Travels was unearthed. Several e-ticket printouts and lists of passengers were seized along with computers and hard drives. They are being checked with an effort to find details of people who actually got old notes exchanged in this manner. Immediately after demonetisation, some people tried to convert their old notes to new by booking tickets from counters, but their efforts were thwarted after   announced that refunds would be made to bank accounts.
 
 “In 2016, we arrested 264 touts. IRCTC allows a person only a certain number of transactions. This is why bogus agents created more IDs and booked tickets,” said V K Dhaka, IG and chief security commissioner, RPF, Eastern Railway.
 
 
