Ghaziabad: The Allahabad high court has directed the chief secretary to file a reply explaining how the land acquired for the   in   had been allotted to private builders for construction of residential buildings. A division bench comprising Justice Arun Tandon and Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi, while hearing a writ petition filed by one Suleman Dabas on Wednesday, asked the state government to take action against the erring officers. If the authorities have failed to develop a bird sanctuary, why shouldn’t the acquired land be returned to the gram sabha or the owners, the court asked.

 The government told the court that an inquiry was going on and action would be taken on the basis of the report. The court fixed July 26 as the next date of hearing.
 
 The 12 acres of land originally belonged to the Arthala gram sabha, but it was handed over to the GMC in 1990. Since the area was part of Arthala lake and was home to many migratory birds for ages, the then district magistrate notified it as a bird sanctuary in 1995, rechristened it as ‘Hindon Pakshi Vihar’, and made the district forest department its custodian.
 
 Later, controversy erupted when a few environmentalists noticed that there was an attempt by some builders to fence the boundary of the bird sanctuary. “We always knew that the patch of land was designated as a bird sanctuary, but got suspicious when fencing was carried out by builders nearly three years ago. On enquiry, we found that the land was sold off to two builders—Mohan Meakins and Gaur Sons,” said  , who had filed a petition in NGT. 
 
 Meanwhile, the   erected five pillars for the elevated road in the bird sanctuary which was challenged in the NGT by Raghav. The court stayed the construction of the elevated road. 
 
 “The NGT on September 20, 2016 had asked the authorities to come up with the exact status of the land, whether it is a bird sanctary or not, but to date they have not replied to NGT,” said Raghav.
 
 Suleman Dabas, the petitioner in the high court, said: “I had filed a petition at the Allahabad high court in 2010 in which the respondents were UP government through DM Ghaziabad, GMC, forest department, UP housing board, principal secretary and others. The matter remained in the court for seven years but the authorities failed to file a counter affidavit even though the court ordered them to do so. When the matter was heard on July 3, a division bench comprising Justice Arun Tandon and Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi was livid and gave them time till July 19 to file counter-affidavit,” said Dabas.
 
  On July 19, the respondents appeared before the court and sought time till July 26 for filing counter affidavit to which the court agreed, he said.
 
 (With inputs from Rajesh Kumar Pandey)
 
 
