Nagpur: Over 1,800 retired employees of Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM), a wholly owned government company involved in commercial extraction of timber, demanded EPF (employer’s contribution) arrears amounting to Rs2 crore. In a representation to regional provident fund commissioner, several signatories (retired staff) pointed out that 2,200 FDCM employees were paid 4th, 5th and 6th Pay Commission arrears worth Rs28 crore pending for January 1986 till April 2004. These arrears were paid as per the Nagpur Bench of Bombay High Court order on September 3, 2015. However, retired employees claimed that FDCM did not pay employer’s contribution (EPF arrears) and hence they suffered huge financial loss. According to Hirachand Mishrikotkar, ex-president, FDCM Employees Sanghatana, the PF manual on disbursement of arrears states that “wherever wage arrears are paid, the relative contribution should be recovered and remitted within 15 days from the date of disbursement of the arrears.” Animesh Mishra, regional provident fund commissioner-1, told TOI that an inquiry has already been ordered into the complaint. “We will go into the records and ensure that justice is done.” However, a top sources with PF office said, “Prima facie it seems the retired employees are eligible for arrears.” The issue was to come up at Lok Adalat on March 10, following a representation made by retired employee Ramesh Maitre to PF commissioner on October 21, last. The PF office has sought details of back wages of Maitre. Meanwhile, FDCM sought opinion from its legal adviser MM Sudame after Maitre’s complaint. Sudame has said that there is no merit in Maitre’s claim stating that even if contribution was made in respect of employee in service, the employer-employee relationship comes to an end by virtue of retirement. Besides, even in the high court order of September 3, 2015 there was no obligation to pay contribution for PF as per the scheme. However, Mishrikotkar says the retired employees are getting pension and they have not closed their PF account number. “The procedure followed by the FDCM in respect of payment of arrears amount in pay revision is uniform and standard, hence the retired employees, who are eligible for pay revision benefits are entitled to other benefits as par with serving employees,” said Mishrikotkar. Considering the legal opinion, it seems that FDCM is not ready to budge and release EPF arrears. It plans to wage another legal battle even if provident commissioner passes the award in favour of the employees. The poor employees already fought a legal battle for 15 years to get pay panel arrears.