MUMBAI: A month after the 
  behind the March 12, 1993, Mumbai bomb blasts that killed 257 and left 713 injured,   has sought permission to visit a marriage registrar’s office to solemnize his wedding vows with a Mumbra  .

 Incarcerated in Indian prisons since his 2005 extradition from Portugal to face over half a dozen cases, including the blasts trial and one of murder in which he was convicted in December 2015, Salem had first moved the marriage permission plea in August 2015.
 
 His application then had followed the woman’s plea before the TADA judge for permission to marry him. Her plea was that 
  had made it difficult for her to find a match and left her defamed as her name and photographs had appeared in media.
 
 At that time, the court had told her that she did not require its permission to marry anyone. Two months later, Salem had requested leave from jail to “officially give his name to the woman” and protect her name. He said that no law barred him as an undertrial or a convict from getting married. Salem’s plea also said he would not misuse the permission if sent to the registrar. His application is still pending.
 
 On Monday, Salem, now convicted in the blasts case too, submitted a fresh plea to press for his request by citing two orders from Bombay and Delhi high courts in similar cases filed by other inmates.
 
 His plea submitted by advocate Farhana Shah said he is now relying on the two high court orders which had granted temporary bail to convicts to solemnize their weddings. One was an order passed in May 2014 by a vacation bench of the Bombay high court. A bench of Justices R D Dhanuka and A K Menon had granted temporary bail to Abhijit Babar to attend a marriage registrar’s office in Mumbai to solemnize his marriage after depositing Rs 50,000 with Kolhapur jail authorities where he was housed. The other was a more recent order passed by Justice A K Pathak of Delhi high court on January 10, 2017. The court extended the parole for Siddharth Vashista to appear before the registrar of marriages, Chandigarh, on January 19 to get his marriage registered and appear for bachelor of administrative law exam.
 
 Special TADA judge G A Sanap asked CBI special prosecutor Deepak Salvi’s say on Salem’s plea.
 
 
 
 
