CHENNAI:   – the city’s centuries-old rainwater harvesting structures –are emerging as money-spinners for   diggers.   tank in   is the latest to join this drill.

 In June, the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department, which is tasked with monitoring temple tanks, had revived three borewells and dug two new ones in the 18th century   tank bed. Now, work is underway to drill at least two new borewells in Chitrakulam pond, which is barely a few 100 metres away. 
 
 The tank is one of the oldest water sources in the city, estimated to be at least 2,000 years old. As the state faces its worst drought in 142 years, the pond has become a picture of neglect, with children playing on its cracked bed being the only source of life. A HR&CE official said the borewells are being dug just to keep these tanks “alive”. “We are using only low capacity pumps. The water level will not be more than two feet,” said an official. 
 
 Experts say this is an ill-afforded luxury in the time of drought, as a lot of this water will be lost to evaporation. 
 
 “Now is the time they should be desilting tanks for the coming monsoon, not indiscriminately drawing water,” said Sekhar Raghavan, director of Rain Centre. The issue of temple tanks being mined for water, more for aesthetics that actual utility, was raised at a recent meeting held under the Sustainable Water Security Mission – a voluntary initiative by the state government to encourage citizen groups in water conservation. “Metrowater officials promised to hold a meeting with temple authorities to discuss the need for borewells,” said Raghavan. 
 
 A survey by Rain Center shows the average groundwater level in Mylapore which stood at a depth of 6m in May last year has dropped to 7.2m this year. The Centre’s 9-metre-deep observation well, located a kilometre away from Kapaleeswarar temple, is now dry. The water level in the well had stood at a depth of 4.2m in June last year.
 
 The two tanks in Mylapore are not the only facilities using borewells to extract water, which experts say, impacts groundwater table in the localities. When residents are struggling for water, Marundeeswarar temple tank in Thiruvanmiyur has at least three feet water. The pumps have been installed, say residents, despite the 2009 Madras high court directive to the HR&CE to seal borewells inside the tank. 
 
 According to a 2004-report by C P Ramaswami Aiyar Environmental Educational Center, the Chennai Metropolitan Area had 50 temple tanks, of which 22 belong to the 7th century AD, while 10 are from the 17th century. All these tanks have inlets that collect water from catchment areas. However, many of these channels have either been lost to encroachment and dumping garbage or been sealed, limiting the tanks to just storing water and not recharging the groundwater.
 
