SHIMLA: Health services in Himachal Pradesh are likely to remain crippled across the state on Monday as around 1,400 medical officers across the state would go on mass leave. The step is being taken to protest against the failure of the state government to provide security from politically connected and influential people who are misbehaving with doctors during duty hours in government hospitals. 

 Himachal Pradesh   (HMOA) president Dr   said inaction of the state government to ensure safety of doctors in the hospitals has forced them to go on mass leave. He said for last four years they were raising the issue of threat to doctors, but the state government had remained silent. The association has claimed that a doctor, after facing humiliation at the hands of politically connected people at  , had suffered heart attack, while a doctor in Bilaspur was on leave fearing the wrath of a Congress MLA and his associates. 
 
 Chauhan said that on December 22, some people forced the doctor at Una hospital to see a patient in the car but when he asked them to bring the patient inside, they misbehaved despite the fact that the patient was brought dead. “After four hours, those politically connected people forced the doctor to apologize to the dead body and on January 18, the doctor suffered heart attack,” said the HMOA president. He added that a doctor in Bilaspur hospital was on leave from the time he was threatened by the Congress MLA. “The doctor has locked himself in his house as he fears to invite the wrath of the MLA on coming out,” he added.
 
 HMOA official said the fact that those who are misbehaving with the doctors are influential people with political connections, the government is holding back from acting tough on them. He ask, “Why are the health minister and health secretary silent on the issue?”
 
 Health and family welfare minister   said the government is concerned for the safety and security of doctors at their work places and has sent non-bailable provision in Medi-Person Act to law department for legal opinion. “After advice of the law department, the Act could be brought for change in the legislative assembly,” Thakur added. He hoped that doctors will not take any step that will create problems for the patients.
 
