PUNE: A   has been sounded at the   in the wake of the  , prompting special security measures and making   at the departure gate a permanent feature.

 Adequate security measures have been taken to deal with any eventuality. The city side area or the area just outside the airport premises remain under constant surveillance of the CISF in addition to the airport. The vigil has been intensified now.
 
 “The focus is on parking lots, abandoned vehicles, and suspicious people and objects. Many people are wearing jackets and other warm clothes because of winter these days. So, the security men have been told to be extra cautious and alert,” an official of the   (CISF) said on the condition of anonymity.
 
 Refusing to make any comments on any specific threat perception, the official said passengers coming to the airport were being thoroughly checked at the departure gate. Their luggage is being monitored through baggage scanners set up near the departure gate.
 
 “Around a month ago, the baggage scanner machines were set up at the gate. It has been decided that the machines will not be removed from there,” the official said.
 
 Besides luggage, passengers are being told to open their jackets or as coats and place them on the scanners for properly scrutiny before they enter the airport and go for check-in,” he said.
 
 “The number of CISF personnel in plain clothes has been increased in and around the airport. They are keeping a close eye on any suspicious activities. Random checks of vehicles and passengers have been initiated. Special care is being taken to ensure that people do not click pictures or selfies in and around the airport premises,” the official told TOI.
 
 Last September, the airport authorities had stated that the bar code feature in e-tickets would be implemented soon at the Lohegaon facility to clamp down on those showing fake e-tickets and sneaking inside. The system has been in place in the airports of Hyderabad and Bengaluru. But it has not started at the Pune airport as yet.
 
 “The system, if in place, will solve many security issues. But we have got no communication about the same from the authorities until now,” the official said.
 
 He said the dog squads had been made more active.
 
