BENGALURU: The  , which has been pushing for shifting of   (RGUHS) campus to  , has asked its   to transfer Rs 580 crore from its   for the construction of a new campus and hospital without the approval of the syndicate council.

 The government has in structed the varsity to transfer Rs 200 crore to the public works department and the remaining into an escrow account. This, members from the syndicate pointed out, was in violation of the high court order.
 
 On June 7, 2017, the Karnataka HC said that the university must bear the cost of only the administrative block (which according to RGUHS costs about Rs 60 crore) and that if there is need for more funds for the proposed campus in Ramanagara, the government should discuss the issue with the varsity. The medical education de partment then wrote a let ter to the university on July 31, asking the vice-chancellor to transfer Rs 580 crore. RGUHS, however, did not take any decision and a meeting under the chairmanship of chief minister Siddaramaiah was held on July 12, where the university was instructed to transfer the money .
 
 However, on August 9, acting V-C M K Ramesh wrote to the department, saying it couldn't be done without the syndicate's approval. Notwithstanding this letter, the government convened a meeting under the chairmanship of additional chief secretary (medical education) on September 7 and again instructed the university to transfer the money .
 
 Documents with TOI show sity hasn't yet transferred the money as the V-C is going by the book,“ sources said.
 
 With repeated phone calls and other communication not having the desired response from the V-C, the department wrote to him on September 9, directing the university to transfer money at the earliest.
 
 RGUHS registrar Noor Mansoor said: “The RGUHS is an autonomous institution and does not receive funds from the government. However, in 2014 the government brought an amendment to the RGUHS Act which now allows the government to give directions about how to use the university's funds.“ Sources, however, argue that the amendment does not take away statutory powers given to the syndicate and government directions cannot overrule the syndicate. that the government has been forcing the university to transfer the money . Following this, sources in the know of the issue, said there have been several phone calls between the V-C and the government, but no decision was taken. “There has been a lot of communication but the univer
 
 
 
 
 The RGUHS finance panel held a meeting on Wednesday to decide whether the university should transfer the money as demanded by the government.RGUHS registrar Noor Mansoor confirmed to TOI the meeting was held on Wednesday. He, however, did not reveal if the panel decided to transfer the money. The acting V-C could not be contacted after the meeting.
 
  
 
