MYSURU: Vikram Singh Munda, a tribal healer from Khunti district in Jharkhand – home of the renowned tribal freedom fighter Bisra Munda – said that he knew of herbs that could help patients cope with diabetes, blood pressure fluctuations among others.

 Munda is one of the 69 tribal healers in the city to attend the five-day national   on   that was inaugurated on Saturday. The workshop is being organised by the   (IGRMS), in collaboration with Anthropological Survey of India. 
 
 The workshop was inaugurated by IGRMS director  . “The knowledge of the tribals will contribute greatly to the growth of our civilisation,” he said.
 
 At his stall, Munda had a wide assortment of herbs, which he said had the ability to cure disorders and allergies ranging from hair loss to joint pains. “People from all walks of life, including politicians, seek us out to get their problems cured. Our herbs are collected in the forest, and induce no side-effects,” Munda said.
 
 Ramana M from Vishakapatnam, Andhra Pradesh, too had brought a rich haul of herbs that he said could cure allergies, neural problems and muscle pains. On the other hand, Arun K Mirashe from Gundolli village in Uttara Kannada district, said that he knew of herbs that could cure cancer. “However, they can cure patients who are in the initial stages of the disease. We first inspect the patients who approach us, and later administer herbal treatment. It’s very effective,” Mirashe added.
 
 Tunu Singh, 88, of Annuppur district in Madhya Pradesh, displayed herbs that he claimed were solutions to problems pertaining to sexual dysfunction among men and women. A member of the Gond tribe, Tunu said that his ‘bala kand’ medicine was prepared from rare herbs found deep within the woods. “A small root of this herb costs Rs 200,” he added.
 
 Besides exotic herbs that the healers said possessed immense medicinal abilities, the participants also showcased traditional healing practices of various states including Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala.
 
 The stall belonging to   from Wayanad in Kerala offered traditional Kerala massage and steam bath at the IGRMS premises.
 
 The organiser of the workshop, Himanshu told TOI that this was the eighth such camp he was conducting. “We have already covered 25 states. There is a huge demand for herbal medicine. This workshop provides a great platform for various tribal communities to interact with one another and share their knowledge,” he added.
 
 IGRMS museum associate Ashok Vardhan said, “This workshop will help preserve traditional Indian medicine practices.”
 
 
