KOCHI: After the successful trial runs of the Metro along the Aluva-Palarivattom corridor, the officials at the Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) are confident that they can now take up the responsibility of executing its extension to Infopark, Kakkanad, independent of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC). 

 Following the state government's nod to phase II of the project from   to Infopark, which is estimated to cost Rs 2,577 crore, KMRL officials have said they would appoint   for executing the work. 
 
 "When general consultants are brought in, we will have enough experts required for   We can set the number of technical experts required as well as the qualification and the required experience for them," said a KMRL spokesperson. When the KMRL invites expression of interest (EOI) the technically qualifying company or agency will have to submit a request for proposal (RFP). "The RFP will even include the curriculum vitae (CV) of each person employed by the general consultant. It will help us to get the experts we need for implementing the project," added the spokesperson.
 
 The KMRL officials pointed out that now the agency has the capacity for contract management. Agency officials said 80% of the technical personnel appointed by them have Metro experience. "They have worked with various Metro projects. We have the capacities and capabilities to execute phase II extension," said the spokesperson.
 
 Currently, the KMRL has entrusted the task of executing the Metro works from Aluva to Pettah/ SN Junction in Tripunithura with the DMRC. The lack of availability of experts from the DMRC for implementing Kochi Metro works had adversely affected the time bound execution of the project.
 
 The revenue department has to take the responsibility of acquiring land for phase II extension, KMRL officials said. Authorities said land can be acquired after issuing a notification and undertaking a social impact assessment study. Land price can be fixed only after completing these procedures. It will take at least six months to complete these procedures.
 
 For extending the project to Kakkanad, KMRL needs for 8.65 acres, which has to be acquired at an estimated cost of Rs 140.68 crore. The metro agency said 3.85 acres will have to be acquired to widen the existing road to 22 meters along the corridor. As the state government has given its approval the KMRL can go ahead with road widening and other preparatory works. The state cabinet had earlier sanctioned Rs 189 crore for the preparatory works.
 
 However, to begin the actual works along the 11.2km long stretch from Kaloor to Kakkanad, Metro officials will have to get the approval from central government. In order to construct the Metro, the road along the route has to be widened, and utilities, including  , have to be shifted to a duct.
 
