SURAT: A 12-year-old successful experiment carried out in the Gujarat civic polls threatens the political future of Delhi's BJP   who won't get renominated for the April 22 polls in the name of fighting anti-incumbency.

 Party sources said both Narendra Modi and   were of the opinion that they need completely fresh faces to stave off the challenge from AAP and Congress.
 
 Facing his first civic election after taking over the reins of Gujarat in 2002, then chief minister Modi tactfully pushed for a `no-repeat' policy in allotting tickets for Surat Municipal Corporation polls held in December 2005.
 
 The strategy was a runaway success with BJP's tally in the 114-member SMC shooting up to 102 from just 59 in 2000. On the face it, not repeating the sitting corporators was aimed at overcoming anti-incumbency . But, internally, it was a well-planned scheme to create a new brigade of Modi loyalists by shoving out all those owing allegiance to his rivals in BJP.
 
 In fact, it was a year before the SMC polls that Modi had managed to weather a massive rebellion against him by 62 of the 127 MLAs after BJP fell behind Congress in the 2004 Lok Sabha polls in the state.Those close to his baiters, such as late Kashiram Rana, a Surat strongman and textile minister in Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, as well as his predecessor Keshubhai Patel, were conveniently shown the door through this formula.
 
 “It was a very successful experiment to promote new faces. There were some who had served for 4-5 terms in SMC. We felt an anti-incumbency could hurt party's prospects and, therefore, this policy was adopted,“ said Pravin Naik, then president of Surat city BJP.
 
 Top local leaders who had to cool their heels at home included Ajay Chokshi, the former Surat mayor who had served five terms as councillor till 2005.  , the deputy mayor had also served four terms; so had  , the standing committee chairman.
 
 Except Ahmedabad and Rajkot, BJP adhered to this formula in municipal corporations of Vadodara and Bhavnagar, too, and consolidated the hold over urban areas.
 
 In Vadodara Municipal Corportion, not repeating a single sitting candidate resulted in a stunning victory for BJP, which got 76 seats in a House of 84.
 
