KOLKATA:   wakes up every morning at her eighth-floor apartment, overlooking the  , at 6am. She takes a hurried bath and spends a few minutes with her morning cuppa, her only luxury in an otherwise dreary day. As she gulps down her tea, she looks at another   in another building across the Bypass.

 She gets out of her flat, takes the lift downstairs, crosses the busy road and then enters the other building, where she takes another elevator to go to the other eighth-floor apartment that she was eyeing a few minutes ago. She enters this apartment, ties up her dupatta in a more work-womanlike fashion and gets down to work, which involves washing utensils and clothes and scrubbing the floor clean.
 
 Welcome to the world of Pinki and Shankar Rajak, and 79 families like hers, whose worlds have turned upside down — they would say for the better — in the past few days. All these families used to live in slums along the Bypass but have moved up in life — dramatically — after being rehabilitated by Kolkata   Rail Corporation and the Bengal government to make way for the East-West Metro project. 
 
 Pinki has recently shifted to her 285sq ft flat (B-803). In lottery, her husband Prasanta Rajak got a sixth-floor flat, but Pinki managed to swap hers with the top-floor flat owner. She now takes great pride standing in the balcony to take a bird’s-eye view of the city and, of course, to gaze at her employee’s flat across the road.
 
 Pinki was one of the slum dwellers at 115, Duttabad Road, whose rented one-room shack with a common latrine for 50 tenants was marked for demolition for the elevated East-West Metro viaduct. 
 
 More than 150 such hovels in the   had been marked for demolition. A protest erupted. Politicians joined in. It was difficult for them to ignore the solid chunk of votes. It became a movement, leaving a 365m yawning gap between two complete stretches for more than five years.
 
 The state government asked KMRC to make a way out so that the least number of slum dwellings was razed. The agency put in a lot of effort to reduce the extent of damage — from razing 150 dwellings to 80. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee also forced an ‘apparent unity’ between her two warring MLAs. She further made sure that the rehabilitation of the evicted slum dwellers became a model and provided the land free of cost. 
 
 What the KMRC eventually built, spending Rs 8 core, became a pride for 80 families and the envy for 70 families whose shanties could be saved.
 
 Nishadevi Chourasia feels dizzy to look outside from her flat — No.802 — on the eighth floor. She has never lived so high in her life. But she loves the kitchen corner of her living space. The swanky toilet, of course, is an ultimate bliss. “I used to wake up after a nightmare in the middle of the night just to queue up before the latrine.” Ganesh Dey was a tenant of Biswanath Bar, who used to be the owner of at least 20 dwellings. Ganesh is now a proud neighbour of Biswanath, being a landlord, got two flats — numbers 504 and 505.
 
 With her shift to a high-rise, Pinki’s aspiration, too, is on the upswing. Her son Adarsh Rajak used to study at the local Duttabad Vivekananda Vidyapith, but Pinki shifted her son to New National, an English-medium school, last March. “I used to pay Rs 1,700 as rent. Now, I am a bit worried about the monthly maintenance, which is yet to be decided,” she says.
 
