Let’s just get it out there, shall we? The Oscars Red Carpet was a damp squib this year. Even though attended by the biggest style divas of Hollywood, it was still left screaming for some drama. The biggest risk-takers left us snoozing with their safe choices and for a major part of the fashion parade, we were either going ‘huh?’ or ‘ummm…’ Even the ones that got our votes were no ‘whoa!’ The men, with the exception of (Sadly) Ryan Gosling and (as usual) Pharell Williams, were considerably better dressed — Dev Patel had us drooling in white and Chris Evans couldn’t have looked sharper in a blue tux. We definitely had some breakthrough finds — like Auli'i Cravalho in a white off-shoulder gown
 that kind of made her look like a bird about to fly away or a Sofia Boutella in a dress that merged metallic and feathers — but to absolutely nullify their edge, there were some shocking disasters like Salma Hayek’s take on a mosquito net or Halle Berry’s confused ode to bandages
 Here’s a pictorial lowdown of the fashion faves and faux pas. 

  
  
 Our fave:   brought along the much-needed drama to this year’s rather bland Oscars fashion. A structured black gown, which mixes classic form with playful ruffles made her look like a vision. 
 
  
  
 Faux pas: Wait, is that  ? What is that goth-inspired lacey mess of unflattering fabric?
 
  
  
 Our fave: We couldn’t help but hoot at Taraji P Henson. In a midnight-blue velvet dress with a high slit that has a definite Jolie-leg vibe going, not to mention an eye-grabbing neckline, the actress left our jaws hanging. 
 
  
  
 Faux Pas: Scarlett, you always have been a red carpet favourite, but it looks like this time, you just lost the plot. 
 
  
  
 Our fave:   is someone who can make even the blandest of outfits work. We aren’t sure anybody else could have worked that golden chandelier-fringe dress, but look at her, with her copper-toned cascading hair! The golden statue had to go to her, right?
 
  
  
 Faux Pas: You can look twice, thrice, a million times over but it won't change the fact that this is the Fifty Shades of Grey famed  . How much more matronly could you get on us?!
 
 
  
  
 Our fave: A bright red silk gown that makes for a stunning silhouette, with some unconventional detailing around the bust and sleeves.   owned the colour.
 
 
  
  
 Faux pas: Victorian era much? Ginnifer, we expect so much more fun and frolic from you, woman!
 
 
  
  
 Our fave: You would think she would be a washout in nude, because of her pale complexion. But let’s take a lesson from   on how to work colours that you have been advised to stay away from. Plus, the red lips! 
 
  
  
 Faux pas: An antithesis to Nicole Kidman,   looked completely washed out in this oyster toned tulle t-length gown. The princess vibe could have worked, if only there was some more colour to it! 
 
 
  
