JAIPUR: With unrest growing in the state over quota demand for economically backward classes (EBC), the government was forced to hold talks twice in a day with the leaders of protesters who gathered in hundreds outside the assembly on Friday. The government assured of another round of talks on the subject on March 6.

 Ministers Yunus Khan and Pushpendra Singh attempted to pacify the protesters outside the assembly, while parliamentary affairs minister   made a statement in the House asserting that the government was making all efforts to implement the EBC Act of 2015.
 
 
  
 “Our government is committed to grant quota to the un-reserved categories by removing legal and constitutional hurdles (in allowing reservation on economic basis). We are writing to the Centre to include the Act of 2015 in Schedule IX of the constitution,” Rathore said, while responding on the subject raised during zero hour by BSP MLA Manoj Nyangli.
 
 The protest was organised by   (different from Shree Rajput Karni Sena that clashed with film director Sanjay Leela Bhansali over the filming of Padmavati in Jaipur recently). Ministers Khan and Singh twice held talks with former minister Rajendra Ghuda and  , who led the protesters on Friday.
 
 Besides the quota demand, the protesters asked for CBI probe over police encounter of one Chatur Singh of Barmer and a ban on release director Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s underproduction movie ‘Padmavati’. The state government accepted both the demands. Minister Singh assured the protesters that the movie would not be released in Rajasthan if it has objectionable scenes.
 
 The Sena’s quota demands included keeping government posts vacant till the EBC Act was implemented, reservation for Karsa Rajputs (farmer Rajputs) be restored, a welfare board for non-reserved communities be set up on the lines of Dev Narayan board existing for Gujjars and upper age limit for non-reserved communities be increased from 35 years to 40 years.
 
 Earlier, during the discussions on EBC quota in the house, BJP MLA   said the constitution does not prevent reservation on economic basis. “What is BPL (below poverty line) benefit, if not a kind of reservation on economic basis?” Tiwari asked. He added, “The constitution talks of political, social and economic justice. While we have already provisioned for political and social justice, the economic justice will come through quota for EBC.”
 
