BENGALURU:   is the man of the moment. After inspiring India to 4-0 series triumph over England - his fifth straight series win as Test skipper - Kohli added weight to his leadership abilities, powering the Men in Blue to victories in the ODIs (2-1) and T20 (2-1) to complete a grand treble.

 "We got the results we wanted. Obviously winning all three series feels good because we were up against a top quality side. It's a great feeling knowing that we didn't have much experience in our teams," Kohli said after his team's 75-run win over England in Bengaluru on Wednesday night.
 
 Pointing at  's historic triple ton (303 not out) in the fifth Test and spinner Yuzvendra Chahal's match-wining six-wicket haul in the T20 title-decider at the M Chinnaswamy stadium, Kohli said youngsters stepping up is a big boost for Indian cricket. "The Test team is almost as good as new. Even in the one-day circuit, we have 3-4 experienced guys but rest of the guys who stepped up are all youngsters. Which is I think is a massive, massive boost for Indian cricket."
 
 Kohli may boast an impressive record as captain winning 14 of the 22 Tests but what helped him achieve results in the shorter formats is the guidance from seasoned campaigners like   and  . "I take a lot of advice from MS (Dhoni) and I always speak a lot to Ashish Nehra. Although I have captained in the Test format for a while, ODI and T20 games move very fast. So to take advice from a person who has captained the side at this level for so long and understands the game really well is never a bad idea in crucial situations," said Kohli.
 
 Kohli, who has found depth in the bench strength, said the emergence of spinners Chahal and Jayant Yadav and the return of Amit Mishra has given him options to rest key spinners like Ravindra Jadeja and R Ashwin. "Guys like Chahal and Amit Mishra have done well for us in limited overs and in Tests also. Jayant came in and did very well in the Tests. It gives us an opportunity to rest Ashwin and Jadeja whenever we want. There is no harm in using them as Test specialists and keeping them fresh," he said.
 
 One aspect of Chahal's game that has impressed Kohli is his ability to bowl according to the demands of the situation. "We have a lot of spinners who are not only run-containing bowlers but also wicket-taking bowlers. That is why I always back someone like Chahal. In the IPL too, I use him in most of the matches. He never says no to bowling with the new ball or bowling in the middle overs, so having a guy like this is great," he said.
 
 Opening batsman KL Rahul has proved himself as an all-format cricketer chipping in with his timely knocks to save India on several occasion. So it came as no surprise when Kohli praised the Karnataka batsman describing him as "confident and mentally tough" cricketer. "He is someone who has a great character. He is mentally tough. He is hardworking and takes a lot of pride in his cricket. He is confident and humble - a rare combination," Kohli said. "He knows what he exactly wants to do, so that's a great thing. I wish I was as smart as him when I was 24. He knows what he needs to do when put under pressure, and backs his game." 
 
 
 
 
 England captain  , who lost both the ODI and T20 series, didn't hide his disappointment admitting his men were not good enough in the final T20. “In the one-day series it was only 15-20 runs between winning and losing the series. Probably that hurts us more than losing this series. We had performances in the one-day series that were potentially worth of winning. This series (T20), probably the last game hurt us more. The game got away from us, we should have won. Today we under-performed and we weren't good enough," he said.
 
