MUMBAI: Around 34   and trust-run   banks in the city have come under the scanner of the   ( ) for functioning without the requisite number of blood transfusion officers (BTO). 

 As per the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, a blood   at no point should function in the absence of BTO.
 
  The complaint was filed after an RTI query by Chetan Kothari revealed that many blood banks in the city were functioning without the minimum strength of four BTOs. As per the RTI, the blood banks of five major private hospitals in the city is functioning with only one BTO, suggesting that there is no transfusion officer in two of the three shifts. Another 21 banks are functioning with only two BTOs. 
 
  Interestingly, while the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) had held KEM and Nair hospitals accountable and even suspended the licences of their blood banks for similar lacunae last year, no stringent action has been initiated against the private and trust-run banks till date. The blood bank of the BMC-run KB Bhabha Hospital was shut down in June last year for running without a single BTO. 
 
  The primary job of a BTO, a medical graduate with degree or diploma in pathology or transfusion medicine, is to supervise and ensure that all steps required for blood safety are followed. The BTO’s signature is mandatory in every blood grouping and cross-matching report. Kothari accused the FDA of handling the non-government blood banks with kid gloves. “Who is FDA shielding? The safety of patients are being comprised because of their laxity,” he said. 
 
  An official working in the field of blood safety, who has been instrumental in filing of the RTIs, said that the plaint was lodged with the ACB as the deliberate act of not filling vacancies amounted to dereliction of duty which is likely to benefit someone. “The FDA is ideally supposed to take action as keeping the post of BTOs vacant could lead to non-adherence to blood safety protocols and compromise the safety of blood,” said the officer. He added that most private banks shy away from employing BTOs as they have to pay a minimum monthly remuneration of Rs 1 lakh. 
 
 
