HYDERABAD: State prohibition and excise sleuths have arrested the kingpin of the duty-free   and   280 bottles of foreign liquor worth 10 lakh from his warehouse in the city. 

 Excise officials arrested Shiv Patil, 40, from his warehouse in Banjara Hills and recovered 280 foreign whisky bottles of popular brands like Johnny Walker, Glenfiddich, Glenlivet, Chivas Regal, Absolut Vodka and Grey Goose Vodka.
 
 The fraud came to light on May 18, when prohibition and excise sleuths had arrested customs superintendent Parthi and three havildars posted at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) for siphoning off duty-free liquor from the Hyderabad Duty-Free Shop at the airport and selling them in black market.
 
  The same day excise sleuths raided the houses of the accused   and seized about  . The accused customs officials used to take the tickets and passports of passengers and hand them over to GMR contingency workers Sailesh and Sanjay Sharma. In turn, the contingency workers would quickly get the passport and tickets scanned at the Hyderabad Duty-Free Shop and buy foreign liquor without the knowledge of the passengers. Later, the officials would smuggle the bottles out and, through mediators, sell them to Shiv Patel and Hari Singh. Shiv and Hari in turn would sell them to affluent clients for private parties.
 
 "We have kept a watch on the suspicious activity pertaining to illegal sale of duty-free liquor causing a huge revenue loss to the Telangana state government. After gathering foolproof evidence, our enforcement teams made the arrests and busted the racket," excise commissioner RV Chandravadan told TOI. After the arrest of Shiv Patil, excise sleuths came to know that he had been procuring the duty-free liquor from Kishan of Delhi, Ganeshan of Chennai and Karthik Reddy of Hyderabad. Shiv Patil used to stock up the liquor bottles at a rented room in the house of one Kareem Allauddin located at Road Number 9 of Banjara Hills. "We have conducted a   at the warehouse in Banjara Hills and seized 280 bottles of liquor belonging to Shiv Patil. The value of the seized goods is over 10 lakh," assistant excise superintendent N Anji Reddy said. 
 
 Excise sleuths will produce Shiv Patil before the court on Wednesday and they are planning to seek his custody to identify the absconding accused from Hyderabad, Chennai and Delhi.
 
