GURGAON: In a city where driving space is at a premium, an entire road near   —   — is banned for commercial vehicles, including Ola and Uber cabs, because long ago, some senior official decided to designate it as a “VIP road”. Traffic cops, who are often seen harassing cab drivers and issuing challans to them for trespassing, admit they have no idea why even cabs are not allowed on the road, which houses a hospital, a working women’s hostel and several other residential complexes.

 Appalled to learn about the ‘VIP road’ in the heart of the city, the newly appointed joint commissioner of police, Sibash Kabiraj, on Monday, promised to rectify this incongruity. “I’m surprised to know even cabs are not allowed on this road, which defeats the purpose of asking people to use public transport. Since I have been posted here only recently, I’m not sure why this rule exists, but I’ll call a meeting on Tuesday and get it sorted,” said Kabiraj.
 
 A traffic cop posted on the stretch said the rule was made many years ago by an influential person living in the vicinity. “I don’t know the reason why even smaller commercial vehicles are not allowed here. We’re told this stretch is known as a ‘VIP road’, because some years ago, some bureaucrat or judge who lived here, got boards installed on either side of the road, stating commercial vehicles are not permitted entry. We’re only doing our duty of penalising those who break the rule,” he said.Interestingly, the cop, Ram Niwas, who was issuing challans on Monday, was seen riding a motorcycle which did not have a registration number. Neither was he wearing a helmet.
 
 While many people are inconvenienced because of the bizarre rule, those visiting   are the worst affected. Hospital authorities said they have got a special permission from court to allow ambulances to enter the road. Surpringly, Badshapur MLA Rao Narbir, a cabinet minister in the Khattar government who lives on this road, said he was unaware of the rule. “I’m not aware that commercial cabs are not allowed on the road. I’ll find out why this absurd ban has been imposed in the first place,” he said.
 
 Residents described the rule as autocratic. “How can they ban entry of private cabs used by commoners, just because someone powerful decided this will be a ‘VIP road’? It’s unfortunate,” said Preeti Singh, a Sector 15 resident.
 
 
