Second year commerce student Aditya Sarkar missed three trains from Borivali before he boarded the 9.49 am train to reach his college for his exams. And not because they were crowded or that he was waiting for his friends; all this, only because he considers the fourth one to be his ‘lucky’ train. 
From having the traditional dahi-cheeni to offering prayers before stepping out for exams, most of us have our set of ‘rituals’, which we believe will help us score some passing marks and more. In the middle of the exam season, we speak to students about what they feel brings them good luck before they head out to write their papers…
 
 
 
 Wearing lucky colours and repeating clothes are the most commonly followed superstition. Final year BA student Aishwarya Shinde has a pink lucky tee that she has been wearing for every exam since she was in her second year. First year Mass Media student Jainam Shah, says, “I wear the same jeans and switch to flip-flops instead of shoes. I also ensure that my timetable remains the same, which includes catching the same train for every paper.”
 
 
 
 Unless you are drawing proportioned diagrams or are plain finicky about the things you carry to college, carrying a stationery pouch is out of question. However, during exams, that’s one thing many youngsters hold on to. For instance, final year Mass Media student Meet Gogri has been using the same ballpoint pen since he was in Class 10. So is the case with second year B Sc student Oswin D’souza. “If I write my first exam with a particular pen and it goes well, I make sure I write all my exams with it,” he says.
 
 
 
 For most, stepping out with a smile on their face before they head out for an exam might be a pre-requisite. But not for Pooja Thakur. “It may sound weird, but whenever I have stepped out for a paper well-dressed, with my hair in place and with a positive state of mind (and happy conversations with my parents), I haven’t fared as well. So, I make sure that while leaving for my exam, I don’t dress up too much. I make sure that I don’t wear a deo, and am not in a peppy mood,” she says. 
 
  
  
 > I always wear my lucky top for tough subjects. Also, I write all my exams with the pen I’ve used during revisions. It ought to remember all the answers after so much of practice! 
 
 
 > I do not shave during my exams. In addition to this, I wear my lucky watch to every exam; I don’t want to tick on my paper that day and eventually my result. 
 
 
 > As a matter of fact, when I have this cardigan/ shrug on, my day goes well. I hope my paper does too. 
 
 
 > I can’t think of writing my exam without my pink bag full of luck. 
 
 
 
 
 A sudden devotional streak — visiting temples, and remembering God, even if you don’t remember your answers — is yet another quick-fix. Siddhi Idnani, a final year student, says, “Often, especially before a paper that I am really underprepared for, I tend to talk to the Buddha painting in front of my study table. I just make a pact with it, that if I get decent grades, I will do some good deeds (negotiable, of course).” Mallika Bhagchandani, a second year junior college student, says, “I make sure I read the daily horoscope in the newspapers and follow the colour mentioned there; it works for me. I also believe in writing down the percentage I want to score on a yellow paper with a red pen and burn it.”
 
 
 An aversion to social media is also common during the exam season. However, avoiding distractions is not the only reason behind it. Suyash Kumar, a first year B Sc student, says, “My classmates and I have a Whatsapp group on which we frequently share study material and clear doubts. On the morning of the exam, we also have a ritual where each member shares a selfie before leaving home, but I steer clear. Once, I was too stressed to send a selfie and that paper turned out to be the best in the entire semester. Ever since, I have become quite superstitious about it. Initially, my friends thought it was absurd, but they’re okay with it now.” 
 
 
 Following age-old advice by our grandparents and parents is also in. Pranil Tailor, a first year Mass Media student, says, “While leaving home, if someone calls me out or if I miss out carrying something, I make sure I don’t look back. Also, sometimes, I keep my textbook under my pillow… just like Raju, Tundra & the Fairy…”
 
 
