RANCHI:   in the city is yet to be streamlined, 16 years after Ranchi became the state capital.  , overcrowded autorickshaws and buses, dearth of designated   leave a lot to be desired where traffic issues are concerned. 

 None of the 72 bus stops across the city can be used by the public as most are occupied by street vendors or are left lying in shambles.
 
 As a result, the people have no option but to board the bus wherever it is convenient and even the bus drivers use it as an excuse to stop buses on middle of the road and create a  .
 
 Public relations officer of   (RMC) Naresh Sinha said, "Keeping in view the global investment summit Momentum Jharkhand which will be held in February, the road section of public works department (PWD) has started renovating some of the bus stops near HEC."
 
 He added, "The PWD has asked us for the list of bus stops which they would be repairing for the summit."
 
 As far as the auto rickshaws are concerned, there is still a lack of proper auto stands across the city and the autos are parked near the roundabouts. 
 
 "The problem is that we do not have any land for allotting auto stands. Land needs to be identified first," Sinha said.
 
 The lack of stands and stops lead to traffic jams across the city. 
 
 "The buses and autos stop anywhere on the road without any indication. This does not just lead to traffic jam but at times also lead to minor accidents," said Pramod Kumar, a businessman who uses a car to move around the city and is a victim of such frequent jams.
 
 E-rickshaws have also emerged as a new mode of public transport and while it is energy efficient, the lack of specified routes has led to these rickshaws plying everywhere and creating traffic congestions.
 
 Traffic SP Sanjay Ranjan Singh said, "We are fed up of the traffic menace created by these e-rickshaws and would be specifying routes for them very soon."
 
 Apart from the traffic problems, these modes of public transport have turned out to be a menace. 
 
 "Be it city buses or auto rickshaws, they are all overloaded. The city bus seats are broken and always filled. As far as autos are concerned, the drivers do not follow norms and instead of three people in the backseat they always try to accommodate at least five," said Sunaina Singh, a regular public transport user.
 
