JAIPUR: The recent directive issued by the state higher education department to increase under graduate seats by 20% in colleges is likely to spike the strength of students between 80 to 96 in each class.

 Most colleges don’t have furniture to accommodate one-third of the total strength and the rise in seats will further create chaos in the classroom.
 
 Teachers contended that students with practical examinations (Bio, Physics,  ) will face the severe shortage of resources in managing their laboratories. Rajasthan has 200 government colleges in almost all districts. Most of these colleges are decades old with having working on the bare minimum facilities.
 
 The rise in seats will jump the strength in Science stream from 70 seats to 84 seats, in Arts seats will increase from 80 to 96 and in Commerce from 80 to 96 seats. “Our class will have 90 students with seating capacity for 50 students. This will create major crises on days when we will have the class run to the full capacity,” said a teacher requesting anonymity.
 
 The government college teachers also contended that they will require at least 15 minutes to carry out attendance of the entire class. The total duration is 45 minutes for every class in these colleges.
 
 “I have written it to authorities several times that in the absence of the microphone, we have to raise our voice to the level that the last student standing at the back should hear it properly,” said a teacher of government college in Ajmer.
 
 Pointing out the problems on behalf of teachers, Ramniwas Chaudhary, spokerperson of Rajasthan Universities and Colleges Association has termed the decision incomplete. The body argued that with the rising number of applications in the colleges, state either ha to come with more colleges or they have to create more sections.
 
 “This decision will put additional pressure on the existing teaching staffs which is already short off what is required. It will affect the quality of teaching. The teacher-student ratio will also be very high violating the UGC norms,” said Chaudhary.
 
 Ray of hope for students
 
  has increased the number of seats by 10% in its constituent colleges giving a last ray of hope to students who missed out by few marks. Maharani’s, Maharaja’s, Commerce and   has seen the rise in the number of seats. Total of 600 seats will increase in all the colleges including 400 in Maharani’s college.
 
 
