Kavita Kaushik, who is best known as the Haryanvi cop in the show F.I.R., had a fairy-tale wedding amid the snow-capped mountains in Kedarnath.
 
  The actress, who got hitched to her long-time friend   on January 27, said, “We stayed in the FRI guest house for a day and then went to Sonprayag before heading to Kedarnath the next day. I decided to get married in Kedarnath because I believe that Lord Shiva taught you how to start afresh after a phase of destruction.”
  
  
 
  
  Talking about the wedding, she said, “During the wedding ceremony, while we were inside the temple, it was snowing outside. And the moment we were done with the rituals, it stopped snowing and there was sun shining in the sky. The place felt like a fairy-tale land with snow-capped mountains and bright sunlight streaming on them.”
  
  Though the temperature was very low, Kavita couldn’t help but flaunt her gorgeous sari and backless blouse. She said, “It was really cold, but I wanted to look the prettiest bride, so I was wearing this backless blouse. Initially, I did feel cold, but the excitement kept me warm for the day.”
  
  With just 15 people, the actress’ wedding was a quiet affair. She said, “All of my friends attended the haldi and mehndi ceremony in Mumbai, but the wedding was a quiet affair, with only 15 people present here. All those who came here were overwhelmed with the weather of Kedarnath as they confessed that it was one of the best weddings they have attended.” Kavita added, “My friend (and TV actress) Aashka Goradia was also a part of the wedding.”
  
  
 
  
  Talking about her equation with her husband Ronnit, she said, “Ronn came into my life when I was going through a tough phase. I lost my father to cancer and was not satisfied with the ongoing projects on television. At that time, Ronn stood by me and helped me overcome that phase.”
  
  On her future plans, she said, “For now, I just want to travel. I am also planning to host a feast for the helper staff in my building. I want to give space to myself and my family.” (Credits: Akshita Vohra)
