JODHPUR: While Prime Minister   visits the Haifa war memorial in Israel on Thursday marking Israel’s victory over Turkish forces to liberate Haifa, Jodhpur basks in the glory of its contribution in marking an end of the Ottoman empire.

 On September 23, 1918, during the First World War, the royal armies of Jodhpur, Mysore and Hyderabad, wherein Hyderabad was kept in reserve with Jodhpur and Mysore lancers charging the attack, had unleashed a mighty attack on the Haifa town, which was under the rule of Turkey since 450 years.
 
 In a matter of one hour, the brave soldiers of the lancers (cavalry regiments) of these three princely states with the robust invasion of the Jodhpur royal force, trounced the Turkish army and got Haifa liberated from a rule of 450 years. In a dreaded fight, Jodhpur lancers had lost 8 soldiers and 60 horses.
 
 After the Commanding Officer of Jodhpur Lancers Dalpat Singh, died in the war, who had been later bestowed with the title of Haifa Hero, was replaced by another officer of Jodhpur Lancers Aman Singh as the officiating Commanding Officer of the Jodhpur Lancers. Under his able command, the soldiers of the forces, got the Haifa freedom from 450 years old Turkish rule.
 
 For his unmatched bravery and takeing possession of Haifa city despite all odds, Singh was bestowed upon the title of the India Order of Merit. 
 
 Relatives of Aman Singh, with the coordination of the Israel govt. built a memorial in Haifa in the memory of this war in 2010 and since then, every year, September 23 is celebrated as ‘Vijay Diwas’ there.
 
 According to Brigadier Mahendra Singh Jodha, grandson of Aman Singh, Israeli had strived hard to trace the Jodhpur link with the   after Indian independence but they could not succeed.
 
 “In 2007, some Israeli tourists came to Jodhpur and during the visit of the  , they were told about the Jodhpur royal’s link with the Haifa war. With the adequate information, they went back to Israel and this visit was followed by efforts to set up a war memorial in Haifa”, said Singh.
 
 Singh along with two other persons, then visited Haifa after installation of the war memorial in 2010 and the first celebration of the Haifa Victory was observed on September 23, 2010.
 
 “Since then, every year on September 23, Haifa Vijay Diwas is celebrated at this war memorial in Israel”, Jodha said.
 
 Delhi’s Teen Murti, a life size statue of three soldiers, representing the 3 lancers of Jodhpur, Mysore and Hyderabad, was built in the memory of the contribution of Indian royal forces of these 3 princely states in the Haifa war.
 
 
