GURUGRAM: Some of the city’s best-known   have moved farther from  , or the Gurgaon-Delhi expressway, without actually moving an inch. 

 Cyber Hub, for instance, can now only be accessed by those coming from NH-8 through the recently opened U-turn underpass inside Cyber City, several hundred metres from its original entrance, just off Shankar Chowk at the entrance to Cyber City.
 
 Ambience Mall, which houses  , had on Tuesday already created a U-turn on its approach road and blocked off its original entry point, taking visitors from the highway through a detour before bringing them back to the main entrance.
 
 On the opposite side of the highway, in Udyog Vihar,   is bringing guests into its premises through the entry for the adjacent  , which is deeper inside the road than the Trident entrance.
 
 They all have a common objective — find a way around   ban on serving of alcohol within 500 metres of a state or national highway. The detours have been assiduously worked on to make motorable distance, the parameter being used by the excise department, more than 500 metres, and help these establishments rescue their bars that have not served liquor since the order came into effect on April 1.
 
 The suspense over whether this strategy will work will, meanwhile, continue for some more time as the excise department did not carry out measurements on Wednesday for these high-value establishments along the expressway, as it had said it will.
 
 Instead, it said it will only take measurements for those who file an affidavit seeking an exemption on the basis of motorable distance. The immediate focus, officials said, is on relocating 43   that are within 500 metres of the highway.
 
 “We are focusing on relocation of liquor vends to other suitable place,” said a senior excise official, adding that finding a suitable place for the vends was a challenge since they could not be set up in the vicinity of hospitals, educational institutions and residential areas.
 
 He said measurements for hotels and restaurant will be conducted after receiving an application from them. “Most restaurants and hotels have stopped serving liquor for now; if they challenge that they are not in 500-metre range of highways, we will conduct measurements to verify their claims,” said the official. A high-level meeting of excise department is scheduled for Thursday in Chandigarh in which senior officials are to discuss implementation of the SC order.
 
 “We will be submitting affidavits to the department to start measurements in accordance with the recent direction of the SC,” said Rahul Singh, president of the Haryana chapter of National Restaurant Association of India.
 
 A spokesperson for Oberoi said they have not made any changes at the entry point. “We will wait for the excise department to conduct measurement,” said the spokesperson.
 
 
