SURAT: Had Prime Minister   not landed at the Surat airport for his onward journey to   and Bharuch for the inauguration of the cable-stayed bridge and petrochemical complex on March 7, authorities at the Surat airport would have got the clearance from for customs notified airport.

 Dreams of the Surti fliers to international destinations may take a while before they are realized in form of the customs notified airport and the permission to start the limited international operations. 
 
 Official sources said that senior officials from the customs department, as directed by the   (CBEC), were supposed to inspect the modifications, which are underway inside the terminal building, for getting the status of the customs notified airport on March 7. However, the inspection had to be cancelled following the arrival of PM Modi at the airport, from where he flew to Dahej in the chopper.
 
 At present, the   (AAI) has taken up the modification of the terminal building on war footing. Separate counters and facilities are being created for the domestic and international operations. The customs officials were to visit the airport to inspect the spot for setting up of the customs clearance and the office of the customs department. 
 
 “Since PM Modi had a programme at Surat airport on March 7, we had to cancel the visit of customs officials at the airport. Now, we are awaiting new date from the customs department for the inspection of the airport,” said an AAI official.
 
 Regional executive director (western region) of AAI, K   had written a letter to the DG, CBEC, requesting to notify Surat airport as the customs notified airport for carrying out international flight and cargo operations by first quarter of 2017. Hemalatha stated that the AAI has identified Surat airport in the WR, which has strong potential for international flight operations. 
 
 At present, Surat airport has only domestic connectivity to Mumbai and Delhi. As per the data, during the year 2015-16, about 4 lakh passengers from Surat travelled to international destinations through Mumbai and Ahmedabad airport.
 
 In additional, Surat has also good potential for air cargo. As per the data, about 7,000 metric tones of cargo is currently airlifted via Mumbai, therefore facilitating direct airlifting of cargo from Surat to benefit the trade and industries. AAI has recently formed a separate cargo handling company AAI-CLAS through which it proposes to provide cargo handling facilities at Surat airport. 
 
 The airport is fully equipped to cater 500 passengers per hour, the runway extension of 2,905 meter likely to be completed by May-2017, airport is equipped with instrument landing system, night landing facilities, operational, fire safety, navigation, meteorological and ATC facilities.
 
 
