Mumbai: Strong support from retail investors in the Rs 1,230-crore maiden public offering for  , Asia’s oldest stock exchange, saw the issue oversubscribed on Day 2 itself by 1.6 times. 

 Usually IPOs get most of their subscriptions on the last day of the offer, and a majority of the demand comes from institutional investors and high net worth individuals (HNIs). 
 
 The strength of the bourse’s management, expected gains from its foray into the international finance space through Gujarat-based  , competitive pricing and a widely known brand name helped the offer get strong retail investor support, investment analysts said.According to data from the bourses, the retail portion in the offer was oversubscribed 2.6 times while the HNI portion was subscribed 57%, and the institutional part 21%. At the aggregate level, it was subscribed 1.6 times.
 
 In the unofficial market, BSE shares are commanding a premium of Rs 140-145 per share on its   price band of Rs 805-806.
 
 On Friday, BSE had shares worth Rs 373 crore to a clutch of high-quality domestic investors including ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund, HDFC MF, Reliance MF and SBI MF. Among the foreign investors were Capital World, Goldman Sachs, Kuwait Investment Authority and Fidelity.
 
 The IPO, which closes on Wednesday, is being managed by Edelweiss Financial Services, Axis Capital, Jefferies India, Nomura Financial Advisory, Motilal Oswal Investment Advisors, SBI Capital Markets and SMC Capitals.
 
 Through this offer, about 1.54 crore shares, translating to 28.3% of the exchange’s equity, is being sold by its shareholders, with its former members constituting a large chunk of this group. After BSE was transformed from an association of brokers to a corporate entity (de-mutualised) in 2005, almost all its former members became its shareholders. In the last decade, some of the large global bourses and private equity players also bought stakes in the bourse. Of the Indian financial institutions, LIC and SBI are among BSE’s top 10 shareholders.
 
 BSE is the first stock exchange in India to go public. In 2012,   ( ) went public through a Rs 660-crore IPO. According to Sebi rules, BSE will be listed only on NSE, its largest competitor.NSE has also filed for an IPO and is awaiting Sebi approval.
 
 
