The idea is to start small, use less things, space, and prime yourself for a life sans the excess that has robbed us all of happiness. The micro way of life is eco-friendly and capturing everyone’s mind. You have   space, an idea that has caught on like fire, in the US, micro-start-ups, micro-travel, micro-cuisine, even micro spirituality. The world is adapting to a small, easy, focused way of doing things. 

 Sachin Goel, CEO of an Indian online home appliances megastore, believes this urge to live ‘small’ is the result of people wanting to enjoy their life to full capacity without added burdens of modern life. “Micro living works best for working professionals, who are living away from home and are overburdened by their daily chores. They have taken a decision to unburden themselves of as much excess as possible.” 
 
 
 
 A well-established concept across Europe and Southeast Asia, the US is currently seeing a boom in micro apartments. What are they? Apartments no bigger than 300-400 sq ft, with an oven and cooktop, a small bathroom, folded bed and lots of hidden storage space. They are situated in posh localities – central areas of a city where all the ‘action’ is. At times, these micro apartments also have a hostel type set-up, where people share the kitchen and have small rooms with attached baths. The demand for them is at an all-time high because millennials want to stay close to their workplace as well as the hub of nightlife. These places are also well-connected with public transport, which is another advantage. 
 
 
 
 Frenzied do-it-all itineraries are being replaced by youngsters, who have taken naturally to micro travelling. They are opting for focused, one-destination, experiential, plans. “This generation doesn’t believe in ticking places off the bucket list. They want to breathe in and live the destination they have chosen,” says travel blogger Shivya Nath. They want their travel self-controlled, seamless and relevant. Aurvind Lama, CEO of one of the largest bus booking portals in India, says, “The trend is especially popular with Gen X, which lives an extremely rushed life. We are also seeing more evolved and immersive travel plans instead of quick weekend getaways popular till even a year ago.”
 
 
  
  
 
 Mingling and activities with locals are in huge demand from travellers on a long duration vacation. From cycling to paddling or picking your solitude in mountains or tasting local flavours – they are all part of the micro experience. 
 
 
 
 This one is a game changer: Small restaurants with a niche clientele, selected sitting area, customised menu. No-wastage, no extravagance. The micro restaurant is so small, it requires only a few staff members. From Japan to Toronto, they are mushrooming, which, in turn, has given rise to micro cuisine. What is that? It involves the chef and the barman coming together to provide fixed menus to a known quantity of diners each night. It saves cost unlike à la carte restaurants, which are always over-stocked. In a micro-restaurant, the kitchen makes the same thing for everyone.
 
 
  
  
 
 Food expert and blogger Nikhil Merchant’s first micro restaurant experience was in Kyoto. “At around 2 am, I entered a cosy space with eight cushioned stools facing a neatly laid out counter top. A young Japanese chef was cooking up a storm in that open kitchen. It was an   restaurant with three dishes on the menu and two beers on tap. The chef was taking orders, prepping, cooking, pouring, plating, serving and conversing.” 
 
 
 
 This is about adding sporadic microbursts of physical activity to your daily routine. For instance, the ‘7 Minute Workout’ app, that ranks Number One in 127 countries has been downloaded by over two million people. Fitness expert and CEO of an online health marketplace, Amaresh Ojha explains, “Micro workouts can be anything from brisk walking, jumping rope, climbing stairs and bike riding. The idea is that short bursts of high-intensity actions are as beneficial as longer, less aggressive routines, like jogging.”
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Try it. For five minutes, stop everything you are doing. Either pray, meditate or practice deep breathing. Once you return to normal activities, your shoulders will be far lighter.
 
 
 
 The idea of micro living is derived from the Japanese term ichigyo-zammai (the practice of concentrating on one thing at a time). We are rarely fully involved in the moment with any single micro activity… like just walking, just reading or just drinking tea, without any distractions.
 
 
