PANAJI: Seemed like the good old days.
 
  Several of Goa’s best known footballers of the sixties and seventies assembled under one roof for the first time as part of a get-together, organized by the Association for the Wellbeing of Elder Sportspersons (AWES) at Casa do Povo, Goa Velha, on Sunday.
  
  There were the golden oldies like Salgaocar SC stars Candido Abreu,  , all part of the first ever Goa squad to take part in the Santosh Trophy in 1964 at Madras (now Chennai). There were stars from the erstwhile Sesa Goa team like Maurice Pinto,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , celebrating their 50th year since the formation of the club were well-represented by the likes of Felix Afonso,  , Inacio Fernandes,   and star defender Nicholas Pereira.
  
  George Rosemond, who captained Goa when the Santosh Trophy was first held in Goa in 1972, was another attraction at the get-together of greats, while the presence of former India goalkeeper EN Sudhir saw several guests remembering the good old days when Vasco SC were almost unbeatable.
  
  These stars were joined by members of the Goa women’s team that won the 1977 National Women’s Football Championship in Goa, defeating Bengal 3-0 at Campal.
  
  There were also several other footballers, administrators – past and present -- besides officials and club owners like Shrinivas Dempo and Peter Vaz.
  
  AWES is a recently-started organization formed under the presidentship of former fisheries minister and goalkeeper Avertano Furtado.
  
  “It gives me immense joy to see all my heroes. I’ve grown up watching so many of you and to see everyone together celebrating football is a dream come true. At AWES, we will do all we can to ensure that you spend the rest of your lives with dignity,” Furtado said in his welcome address.
  
  Former India coach Armando Colaco, treasurer of the association, spelt out the need for this organisation to be formed and said the exploits of yesteryear players will never be forgotten.
  
  “Our objective is to recognise and recollect the contribution made by sportspersons, sports administrators and sports technical and field officials. We intend to render whatever assistance possible, whenever required,” said Colaco.
  
  Sunday, though, was not just about footballers. There were officials too, like former director of sports RB Jirage, Jaisinh Maganlal and Damodar Bhonsulo.
  
  “AWES has promised to convince the government to take up new schemes and modify and implement existing schemes for sportspersons. The aim is to ensure that all former sportspersons live their twilight years with respect and dignity,” the association said in a statement.
