GUWAHATI: Even as the cry for reforms in the   has grown louder, the apex literary body of the state announced the dates for the  ,   and   

 The tenure of the incumbents get over in March.
 
 The elections were announced after Sabha president and noted author   resigned from his post last December; secretary general Paramananda Rajbongshi also stepped down a few days ago. 
 
 The high-profile resignations left the Sabha rudderless at a time it faces the daunting task of organizing the ongoing centenary celebrations.
 
 In a statement issued on Tuesday, the Sabha said the process to elect a new president, vice-president and secretary general would begin on April 1. 
 
 "The electoral process will be completed by June and the results will be declared on July 1," said the Sabha's secretary general (in charge), Abani Mohan Chahariya.
 
 The Sabha has appointed Daso Kalita as the chief election officer; lawyers Bijon Mahajan and Bhupen Sarma have been chosen as election officers.
 
 Elections to choose the office-bearers of the district and Sakha Sahitya Sabhas will be held between August and November this year.
 
 Several controversies have rocked the prestigious literary body in recent months. Most centred around the figure of Rajbongshi who stands accused of promoting unscrupulous activities within the Sabha.
 
 The crisis deepened when Borah decided to resign due to differences with Rajbongshi. The latter continued to exercise his influence to garner the support of the executive members of the organization.
 
 The rift between the two had widened after the reception committee of the centenary session of the Sabha prohibited Rajbongshi from joining the centenary celebrations to be held in Sivasagar in February.
 
 Accusing Rajbongshi of being involved in several irregularities, the reception committee decided to boycott him especially after his name figured in connection with the "suicide" of Rajendra Nath Dutta, former head assistant-cum-accountant of the Sabha, inside office in Jorhat. 
 
 
