NAGPUR:   officials came across a case of a teacher who had allegedly granted extra marks to over 50 students, despite the fact that they hadn’t solved most of the questions.

 According to NU senior officials, the evaluator hailing from one of the reputed colleges, had granted first class grade marks to all the students, majority of them from the same college. His case would be referred to NU’s Disciplinary Action Committee (DAC).
 
 The issue came to fore after officials receive an anonymous complaint that an evaluator had allegedly charged a huge amount to increase marks of some students. The exam section officials then decided to recheck the answer books evaluated by the teacher. 
 
 They were surprised to see that extra marks were granted to all students who were sitting in serial numbers, even as they failed to answer all questions and left most of pages blank. The increase is marks were above 40-50 which further raised suspicion. Those answer books were then sent for moderation where the malpractice was confirmed. 
 
 When the issue was pointed out to   (COE)  , he brought it to the notice to pro-VC Pramod Yeole. After consultations with VC SP Kane, it was decided to conduct an internal probe on the administrative level, before the case is handed over to the DAC.
 
 “Our internal probe is nearing completion, where prima facie, the lecturer is found to be guilty. We will hand over the probe papers to DAC after checking entire details and collecting all documents. We can’t reveal the lecturer’s name, as he then starts using his political clout to suppress the facts,” officials told TOI.
 
 They added that many similar cases were earlier detected, but NU administration failed to act against them after being pressurized from various quarters, including teachers’ bodies, besides the politicians and even criminals. Even those who were allegedly caught in such malpractices, like former assistant registrar  , no serious offences were lodged against them for over four years, since they were caught.
 
 In a similar case, lower rung NU employees were caught for supplying answer books to students after the exams from godowns, but NU failed to lodge a formal police complaint all these years. The employees used to provide answer books to the students at their home. In turn, latter used to fill them up and employees used to brought them back to the godowns before being sent for the evaluation. 
 
 Even in Kohchade scam, a majority of teachers and NU officials were acquitted by the court, as both police and NU failed to provide sufficient evidence and also failed to properly fight the case. It was only till special public prosecutor   fought the case that guilty officials and teachers were sent behind bars. But after his sudden removal, all of them were released, officials claimed. 
 
