VISAKHAPATNAM: The Port City is rapidly evolving into a transit hub for an elaborate  , with colleges becoming the preferred places of doing the illegal business.

 Consumption of   has touched alarming levels in the city, say police, with sale of the contraband shooting up to half a tonne every day from 100 kg per day three years ago.
 
 “All the ganja being smuggled into the city is not meant to be consumed in the city. Some of it is being diverted to other towns and cities in north Andhra,” a police officer told TOI on the condition of anonymity.
 
 Even though the rural police, prohibition and excise personnel and the city’s Task Force Wing have been seizing huge quantities of ganja, the flow of the drug continues to be high due to a steady supply from interior areas of Visakha Agency and parts of   district in Odisha.
 
 Apart from the city police, the Task Force police seized around half a tonne ganja in 15 cases in the first six months of this year and arrested 23 people. This year’s haul is likely to cross that of last year, with police seizing 1,177 kg of the contraband through the year in 27 cases. As many as 72 persons were held last year.
 
 “All this was seized in small quantities. Smugglers carry small quantities like 5 kg to 15 kg as it is convenient to carry and hand it over to clients. One gram of good quality ganja like ‘Seelavathi’ will cost Rs 200 to Rs 500 depending on the area and demand,” Task Force ACP I Chitti Babu said. Drug peddlers even sell small packets of ganja for Rs 100.
 
 North Andhra districts have more 100 colleges with a combined strength of 40,000-50,000 students and this is the prime target of peddlers. Sale of ganja is also taking place at railway stations like Jnanapuram, Allipuram and Bhupeshnagar, besides suburbs like Kancharapalem, Gopalapatnam, Pendurthi, Simchalam, Gajuwaka, Beach Road, Dwarakanagar, Rushikonda and   area, sources said.
 
 The city police and rural cops nabbed some students during raids recently. Many students are allegedly procuring the drug from the Agency areas. Some are also turning into ganja suppliers lured by easy money.
 
