NOIDA: Fed up with   in Sector 18, Noida’s commercial hub, angry traders have threatened to approach chief minister Adityanath Yogi if the Noida Authority does not address their concerns.

 The area, which has been under a long-drawn revamp plan since January 2015, is littered with debris from dug-up roads. According to the traders, work is being carried out in four places simultaneously at present, with blocks N, J, B and C dug up for the project. With no place to park vehicles or even to walk, navigating in the sector has become next to impossible for visitors, leading to losses in business, they said.
 
 “There is utter confusion and visitors to the sector are having a hard time not only in finding a place to park their vehicles but also to walk,” said G S Pahwa, who owns a store in the area.
 
 “It has been two years and even the first phase of the revamp plan, which was to be completed in 2015, is not over yet,” said S K Jain, president of the Sector 18 market association. “Lights, electricity cables and benches were to be put in place, while the temporary electricity poles had to be removed. But it has not been done yet. The roads are in a major state of disrepair. Those repaired during the first phase have also been broken again for relaying. It is a sorry state of affairs,” Jain lamented.
 
 “The parking facility is deplorable, with barely enough space for two cars to pass each other. There is a constant traffic gridlock along each of the four parking lanes in the area. The long promised multi-level parking area has missed several deadlines,” said Colonel Surjeet Singh Bhasin (retd), another trader.
 
 Traders also said they did not get satisfactory answers from Noida Authority officials despite several requests. “We have now sought a meeting with Noida Authority CEO Deepak Agarwal. If he does not meet us, or if we do not get relief soon, we will write to the UP CM and seek his intervention,” Jain said.
 
 Meanwhile, S C Mishra, the project engineer handling the revamp, said the first phase of the project was completed two years ago. “The second phase was restarted last month and will be completed by February 2018,” Mishra said. “We will also partially open the multi-level parking lot for about 2,000 vehicles by April. Some part of the dug-up roads will be repaired by April 15,” he said.
 
 
