BARNALA: A bus belonging to  , which is owned by former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal, collided head-on with a car on Saturday morning on the   at  , resulting in the death of four persons. All four were travelling in the ill-fated Hyundai Santro car, whereas its driver sustained injuries. 

 The driver of the bus fled from the accident site leaving behind his vehicle. Police impounded the bus and a case under sections 304A (causing death by negligence), 279 (rash driving) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or safety of others) and 427 (mischief) of the IPC was registered against  , a resident of Dhadde village in Bathinda district. 
 
 The collision was so strong that the front portion of the car was badly mangled and the occupants had to be pulled out by cutting parts of the vehicle. All the four deceased belonged to Ghunas. The deceased were identified as Ghunas panchayat member Jagga Singh, former panchayat member Hardev Singh and numberdars Sukhjit Singh and Bahadur Singh. Car driver Jagtar Singh sustained injuries.
 
 Former sarpanch of   and Bhola Singh, brother of one of the deceased, said, "At around 9.30 am, five village residents were going to Rampura in their car. As the national highway is being widened, no exit has been given near Ghunas and the road has a divider. The driver took the car on the wrong side due to no exit towards Tapa. The car collided head on with a Orbit bus coming from opposite side just few metres away from the village." 
 
 Both said the villagers had tough time in pulling out the bodies and policemen in large numbers came to the accident the site and took away the bus. Tapa deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Surinder Kumar said, "A case for causing death due to negligence and rash driving charges has been registered against driver Darshan Singh on the complaint of deceased Jagga Singh's brother Bhola Singh. The driver is on the run and bus has been taken into custody." 
 
 Orbit Aviation has courted controversy several times in the past as well for its buses being involved in accidents in different places in Punjab.
 
