NAGPUR: Speculation surrounding the disappearance of  , son of a retired police officer of the wireless department, was put to rest on Saturday with the discovery of his body on Saturday. The 27-year-old’s partially decomposed body was found outside  , near Besa, on the outskirts of the city.

 Paritosh, a tuition teacher, had last spoken to a close female friend, before his cell phone was switched off on March 4, the day he had gone missing.
 
 As the reason behind Paritosh’s death is yet to be ascertained through post mortem and chemical analysis reports, there is a difference of opinion between police and the victim’s family. Police feel Paritosh may have ended his life by consuming an overdose of sedatives. The family , however, is alleging some foul play in the unexplained death as Paritosh’s decomposed body was found in a desolate place that he had no apparent reason to visit. “We feel that he was pressurized to reach the place, and then killed,” said a family source.
 
 Paritosh, a resident of   on  , was preparing for MPSC examinations, said a family source, and had not cleared his last examination. The close female friend, who was the last person to speak to Paritosh on phone, was also appearing for MPSC. Reliable sources said Paritosh had spoken to the friend casually, discussing examinations and other related aspects of studies. “There was no injury or any symptom on his body suggesting a scuffle,” said police.
 
 An empty 30-tablet strip of sedatives, along with a half-filled water bottle, was among the things found in a bag near Paritosh’s body. Paritosh’s bike was also found some 200 meters from the body. The place where the body was found had no colonies in the vicinity. It’s learnt that the place is mostly frequented by herdsmen, so their animals can feed on the shrubs and tall grasses. One of the herdsmen, attracted by the stench, was the first to spot the body and alerted Hudkeshwar police station, where a case of accidental death has been registered.
 
 Paritosh’s family had earlier visited Ghogli, after learning informally from the cyber cell that his cell phone was last traced in that locality, but returned empty-handed. The cell phone had also shown a location near Parsodi.
 
 Paritosh had left house after informing mother Ujjawalabai that he was heading to Wardha in the car of his tuition class. Later, he even called up his mother to say he would return after taking his regular tuition class at Dhantoli. As Paritosh did not return, the family registered a missing complaint at MIDC police station, and began searching at various places. The police have said that Paritosh did not attend his classes on the day he went missing.
 
 
