JAIPUR: Review of state's   in first six months set a bleak outlook for the future. Report on   Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) released on Tuesday by the finance department highlighted poor  ,   and indicated the government's inability to maintain   targets.

 Based on the achievements from April to September 2016-17, report noted that shortfall in revenue realization through royalties from the petroleum, VAT, stamps and registration and taxes in vehicles are very much likely to happen.
 
 However, the overall expenditure of the government will still be on a faster pace during forthcoming months of the current financial year.“As a result of finalizing of recruitment process of various posts in the departments the expenditure is also expected to rise during remaining months“ noted the report. On the revenue front income generated from petroleum in the first six months of the financial year (April to September) was Rs 1,084 crore against Rs 1,531 crore in 201516 during same period. There has been a direct loss of Rs 447 crore, particularly from the sector on which pension and several other government schemes were banking upon.
 
 Mining, one of the important pillars of Rajasthan's economy , also witnessed a significant downfall in its earnings. Compared to six months of financial year 201516 where Rs 1,707 crore were earned as revenue only Rs 1,499 crore were received in the current financial year, direct loss of Rs 208 crore to the exchequer.
 
 Contribution from transport to the coffers of the government had been just 3.32%. From April to August 2016, transport department achieved revenue collection of Rs 1,174 cr compared to Rs 1,136 crore in previous year.
 
 With current situation prevailing, state government has hinted for harsher budget for the next financial year. To achieve the required fiscal deficit of 3%, which at present is lingering at 5.6% (with impact of UDAY) report suggested on rationalization to minimize unproductive expenditure. It also stressed on maximizing of available resources.
 
 For increasing revenue receipts and ensure recovery of substantial outstanding tax demands, measures like special campaigns and amnesty scheme have also been recommend in the report.
 
