HYDERABAD: The announcement of minimum support price for chilli in two Telugu states is being considered by political pundits as a master-stroke by the Modi-led government at the Centre to win over farmers to the saffron fold, particularly in Telangana, who are angry with the ruling TRS for not coming to their rescue. 

 Though it is too small a gesture to call it a quid pro quo between the Centre and two Telugu states, political pundits do not rule out the possibility of it being an ice-breaker in the run-up to the Presidential election.
 
 Union labour and employment minister   was swift to criticize ruling TRS for failing to provide MSP for chilli and then passing the buck to the Centre. "The Union government does not extend MSP to cash crops. It's the state government's responsibility. Yet the Centre announced 5,000 MSP for chilli in Telangana and AP to mitigate suffering of farmers," he said. 
 
 Dattatreya lashed out at ruling TRS, saying the chilli blaze was a fallout of state government's failure to set up procurement centres. Also, the state government asked farmers not to go for cotton sowing, but stick to other commercial crop. When there has been a bumper chilli crop, the government failed to come up with procurement and marketing, he said.
 
 It may be mentioned that due to chilli glut in both Telugu states, prices crashed. Congress, TDP, CPI and   have cornered the ruling TRS by extending solidarity with farmers, interacting with them to gain political mileage. With Centre's announcement of MSP for chilli, BJP is on its way to win farmers' sympathy.
 
 Hours before Union agriculture minister Radha   announced minimum support price for chillies in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, workers of ruling TRS and   almost came to blows in Khammam district on Wednesday. The incident occurred when Telugu Desam working president A Revanth Reddy along with party senior leaders went to Khammam to interact with chilli farmers and their families.
 
 Tension prevailed when two groups of TRS and TDP raised slogans against each other. Raising black flags, TRS workers said TDP had no moral right to talk about farmers as it is an alliance partner of NDA government which has failed to announce minimum support price for chilli.
 
 Later, Revanth Reddy along with party leaders met farmers in Khammam jail and announced 10,000 financial support to farmers, who lodged in jail. Angry over failure of the government to come to the rescue of farmers, he said it was unfortunate the ruling TRS had branded farmers as goondas. "TDP will organise a public meeting in Palair shortly,' he said. 
 
