JAIPUR:   spoke on changing   at the  , Hathroi, on Friday. Basu said the present dispensation is moving away from the earlier convention of a   on foreign policy. "No matter what our differences over domestic issues, political parties generally agreed on foreign policy. That consensus has eroded in the past three years, when the prime minister has engaged at a personal level with international leaders, but taken hardline positions like not engaging in dialogue with Pakistan until the terrorism issue is resolved. This has only deepened differences and caused hardliners on both sides of the border to flourish."

 Basu underlined how the independent and honest   that inspired respect among nations has now been replaced by a policy that seeks no continuity with the traditions of our independence struggle.
 
 "In the 70 years of our existence as an independent nation, no prime minister has ever visited Israel. India has now sent out a message that we will engage with Israel and Palestine as independent nations. We must recall that at the time of World War II, during the attacks on Jews after Hitler propagated the notion of the superiority of the Aryan race - rings a bell with discourse in present-day India, perhaps? - old people, women and children were gassed to death in Europe. After the war, Europe and US decided that the Jews needed to be rehabilitated, and they were given lands traditionally occupied by the Arabs. 
 Our independence struggle sympathized with the Jews who had suffered so much under Hitler. But we could never accept the creation of Israel in land that belongs to Palestinians. Gandhi would say that just like Germany is for Germans and France for French, the Palestinian territory too was for Palestinians," Basu said.
 
 The movement for the creation of a Jewish homeland in Palestine can be traced back to before World War I, when British foreign secretary Arthur Balfour expressed support for the idea of Israel. The Jewish state of Israel, established in 1948, is described by Wikipedia as the "world's longest military occupation".
 
 Basu described having visited Israel and Palestine: "There were 18 checkpoints to cross, and it takes Palestinians one day to cross that 2-km stretch," he said. It was only in 1992, after the wave of liberalization began, that India established diplomatic ties with Israel. Even so, no prime minister before Narendra Modi had visited the country and embraced it as warmly."
 
 Basu also spoke of how China has earlier, in 1994, come to India's support and claimed that the India-Pakistan matter was bilateral, not international; differences could be resolved by the mature political leadership of both countries, China had come to India's support when there was fear that Kashmir would be raised in the UN. This time, however, China has issued a statement claiming that if India and Pakistan failed to resolve their border differences, it could intervene.
 
 "The Dhoklam issue concerns a border matter that has been under discussion between Bhutan and China since 1980. At the time of the 1890 agreement between British India and China, Bhutan did not exist and it now has refused to abide by that agreement. This is a matter for Bhutan and China to resolve. Why did India have to intervene? And in Nepal, when a democratic Constitution was drawn up, India wanted changes. If the BJP were to set itself some rules, could I, of the CPI-M, dictate how it must change them? Is that not gross humiliation? And there were such problems on the border, people were not allowed access even to food. China had to step in and aid the Nepalese people."
 
 Basu said, "Prime Minister Narendra Modi says he does not want to engage with Pakistan until it gives up terrorism. If that is indeed the case, then he must not have ties with Saudi Arabia or Israel either. But it would be hard to whip up frenzy in India in the name of Saudi Arabia or Israel. A foreign policy that is so inward looking is bound to fail. In the time leading up to Independence Day next month, we will be travelling across the country to discuss how this ruling dispensation disowns the very principles of the freedom struggle," Basu said.
 
