COIMBATORE: The delay in conducting the   till the beginning of summer has increased the   being disturbed by   at the camp.

 This has prompted the forest department to provide additional security. Three layers of solar powered-fences and at least three layers of round-the clock-watchers have been set up. With the camp all set to begin from 6 am on Thursday, elephants from all the state-run temples began arriving at Thekkampatti on Wednesday.
 
 Environmentalists have always claimed that the Thekkampatti camp site is literally situated on the elephant corridor, increasing risks. With the summer season beginning in the district, many wild elephants are expected to stray outside forests in search of water and for migration. "The fact that all the temple elephants are female does not help either, as male wild elephants are attracted to their smell during migration," said environmentalist, N I Jalaluddin of Nature Conservation Society (NCS).
 
 With the incoming elephants, forest officers are triple checking their security measures. "We have placed two circles or layers of solar powered hanging fences and a standing electric fence much inside the camp," said the Mettupalayam forest officer, M Nazir. "Besides keeping crackers ready to chase away wild elephants, we have erected six watch towers with four anti-poaching watchers in each of them," said Nazir. "If the watchers spot a wild elephant, they have been equipped with three government vehicles to chase the animal away. We have also placed 30 temporary watchers and 15 uniformed officers who will watch the camp round-the clock and can handle any eventuality," he said.
 
 At around 5 pm on Wednesday, three elephants from Sundaravalli from Tiruchengode and Rukhu from Tiruvannamalai, reached the campsite at Thekkampatti and were being offloaded. After having their weight and medical records checked by the veterinary officers on duty, they joined the 16 elephants that had arrived since morning. The remaining 12 of the 31 elephants, scheduled to attend the camp, are expected to turn up by 6 am on Thursday. "Elephants from nearby temples like Lakshmi from Perur, Gomathi from Sankarankoil and Gandhimathi from Tiruvannamalai have arrived," said the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) deputy commissioner, K Palanikumar.
 
 Veterinary officers at the camp began checking the medical records and vaccinations administered to each elephant, as it was being unloaded from the vehicle. "Though we had instructed veterinary officers attached to each of those temples to administer all necessary vaccinations to the elephants during the last week of December or January beginning latest, we are ensuring that they have received the anthrax vaccination among others," said Dr V Muthugopalakrishnan, Joint director of the Animal Husbandry Department.
 
