When   took charge of   in 1985, it was known as the ‘goonda college’, and students joining it hadn’t scored more than 55% in school. Three decades later, as he gets ready to retire after being the longest-serving principal of  , the college has a cut-off of 99.25%. However, days before his retirement, things in Ramjas seem to have taken a turn for the worse lately, with violent fights and protests by student netas from different political parties. The tension in the campus started after JNU student  , who was charged with sedition last year, was invited to Ramjas to speak at a seminar called ‘Cultures of Protest’. This was opposed by ABVP members, and the protest soon turned violent.

 The outgoing principal, who retires tomorrow, tells us , "I think the incident could have been avoided if both the parties would have sat down and resolved the issue. When I got to know that the event would have law and order issues, I cancelled it. I thought things would cool down, but that did not happen. It saddens me to see the current condition of the college. For two decades, Ramjas has been so peaceful and suddenly, this incident happened. But I am sure that things will be fine soon."
 
 
 
 Talking about how the college was when he joined, the principal says, "I was 33 when I was invited to take over as the principal of Ramjas College. At that point, the college was in horrible shape and violence was at its peak. Students used to fight every day and I had to go to the police station to get the students back. I inherited a college that was unruly and rowdy, and for me, that was the challenge."
 
 Being an alumnus of St Stephen’s College, Ramjas was a completely different experience for him. "Students of Stephen’s were called high-headed, arrogant snobs, but that college taught me to be confident, and how to face the world. It trained me to shape my mind according to the situation, and that helped me adjust here. These two colleges are poles apart from each other, and I think that is where the beauty lies," he adds.
 
 
 
 Before he took over as the principal, 15 people had already resigned from the position. “Teachers used to ask the guards at the college gate, ‘Who is the principal today?’ Fifteen principals left the position before me. The college was highly politicized, and student leaders of almost all major political parties were part of Ramjas. They all had different ideologies and different ways of thinking. Managing their ideological differences was the main challenge. Teachers also had their political ideologies, and I have seen violent fights not only among students, but also between students and teachers,” he says.
 
 
 
 The outgoing principal says that around the time he joined Ramjas, the college’s reputation was such that girls did not want to take admission here. “Girls did not want to cross the back lane of our college, let alone taking admission here,” he says, adding, “The students seeking admission here did not have more than 55%. Compare that to this year, when the college demanded 99.25% for the BCom (Hons) course.”
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Talking about how he managed to gain the trust of the students, he says, “Working here was a calculated risk. My father was also a DU professor and his experiences and teachings made me confident and I did not give up. In an institution with such a politically-charged environment, I realized I had to work with the students. They started trusting me and the bond developed. As far as the teachers were concerned, I never interfered in their way of working. If they were being helpful to the system, I was with them always, and I think that worked.”
 
 
 
 While talking to us, he calls up a student and requests her, "Please meri profile update kar dena. Retire hone wala hoon, ab kuchh toh karna padega." He tells us, "I was a young man when I joined Ramjas. Now, when I retire, I want to definitely give time to my family and would also like to resume my academic work."
 
 
