PATNA: Over 500 students from 12 institutes of Patna on Friday participated in the three-day sports fest, ‘Infinito 2017’, which has been organised by the   at its Bihta campus. The event was inaugurated by D S Mehta, a faculty of physics department,  , Delhi.

 Speaking on the occasion, Mehta said sports activities teach students to take challenges in life ahead. “We live in a society where competition is high among all individuals and we should teach the young students to function in a competitive environment and learn how to win and lose,” he added.
 
 National Institute of Technology-Patna,  , CIMAGE, Chanakya  , Cybotech, AIIMS, NSIT, NIFT and St Xavier’s College are some of the institutes taking part in the event with zeal and enthusiasm. The fest began with basketball, volleyball and cricket match. IIT-P, NIT-P, AIIMS-P and NSIT have qualified for the semifinals of basketball tournament. IIT-P and NIFT, on the other hand, have qualified for the final volleyball match.
 
 Shashank, sports secretary of IIT-P, said the remaining matches will be played on the second and third day of the fest. “Table tennis match will begin from March 25. The certificates and trophies will be awarded to winners on the concluding day of the fest,” he added.
 
 Shahid Hussain, associate dean of students’ affair, IIT-P, motivated the participants to show their sportsmanship. “It is the first time the institute has organised such a big sports event. We are happy with the turnout,” he added.
 
 The participants too had a gala time on the campus. Vishal Kumar, an engineering student of NIT-P, said, “It seems like I am back to my childhood time. I really enjoyed the basketball match. It is very important to excel in both academics and extra-curricular activities. Our team performed very well and we have made it to the semifinals.”
 
 Bihar Diwas contests: At least 80 teacher trainees participated in different competitions organized by St Xavier’s College of Education on the occasion of Bihar Diwas on Friday. While ‘Zakir House’ won the music contest, ‘Gandhi House’ was declared the winner of the quiz competition. College principal Fr Thomas Perumalil SJ said the competition, based on the theme ‘Bihar’, was organized to make the trainees aware of the different folk songs of Bihar. Faculty members Madhu Singh, Deep Kumar, Sushil Kumar Singh, Nimisha Srivastava, Vikramjit Singh, Shobha, Sujata, Smita Pascal, Vijay and Vijayshree were present at the event.
 
 CUSB seminar: At least 100 students attended a national seminar on ‘Psychological Sciences: Current Perspective and Emerging Avenues of Practice, Training and Research’ organized by the Centre for Psychological Sciences of Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) on Friday. 
 
 Delivering the keynote address at the inaugural session of the three-day seminar, AIIMS-Delhi psychiatry department head R K Chadda said mental illnesses could be cured by making slight modifications in one’s lifestyle. “There are only seven psychologists per 1,000 individuals in India as reported by the Mental Health Atlas,” he added.
 
 Others who spoke on the occasion included Delhi University’s applied psychology professor S P K Jena, noted psychologist Smriti Joshi and IIT Kanpur’s Prof Braj Bhushan among others. 
 
 CUSB faculty members Das Ambika Bharti, Narsingh Kumar, Manglesh K Manglam and Chetna Jaiswal also participated in the deliberations.
 
 Entrepreneurs’ Week: Signzy and Crosslink Analytics Solution’s co-founder Ankit Ratan highlighted the basics of start-ups and the growth of business on the third day of the fourth edition of Entrepreneurs’ Week organized by the e-club of Indian Institute of Technology on Friday. 
 
 E-club coordinator Dharmesh Kumar Dewangan said during the e-week, exciting events were organized with a vision to ignite, strengthen and promote entrepreneurial spirit among students.
 
 Students participated in gaming events like Dad’s Business, Vendre-Time Shift Marketing, IPL Auction, Stockmart and others.
 
 Annual day: Class IX student Sapna Kumari got the best student of the year award at the annual day function of Gyanasthali High School on Friday. 
 
 Students presented colourful dance performances, songs and skits at the event which was inaugurated by Patna University vice-chancellor Sudhir Shrivastava. The chief guest of the function was MLA Sanjeev Chaurasia.
 
 
