NOIDA: The new superintendent of police (traffic), Anil Jha, took charge on Tuesday and visited major intersections in   along with officials of GNIDA.The SP visited at least five major choke points in the district on Tuesday afternoon including Sector 14A, Atta Peer Crossing,  , Sector 71 and  .

 Stating that the traffic police will try to decongest the Pari Chowk area, the SP said that an alternative route will be planned for heavy vehicles. 
 
 “We will try to make the trucks and other heavy vehicles use an alternative route to the left of Pari Chowk to LG Company,” he said. Suniti, SP (rural area), too visited the Pari Chowk area with the SP (traffic).
 
 Following the visit, a meeting was held between the SP (traffic) and officials of planning and traffic management at the Greater Noida Authority where the matter was discussed.
 
 When asked about the autorickshaws of the city which are the major cause of congestion at Pari Chowk, he said they would not be allowed to continue ferrying and offloading the passengers at the main intersection.
 
 The autos keep on blocking the Pari Chowk area on the pretext of picking up and offloading passengers.
 
 When questioned about the e-rickshaws plying illegally on the roads of Noida, he said he would seek the details about the routes designated for the vehicles.
 
 “We have nothing in black and white about the designated routes for the e-rickshaws. We will seek the details of the routes designated for the e-rickshaws in the city from the authorities and then plan the course of action,” Jha told TOI. Last year, the Noida Authority had planned 12 routes within the city where the e-rickshaws had to ply. These include New Ashok Nagar to Jhundpura, Sector 14–Sector 12/22, Sector 18–Chaura village, Sector 56–Labour Chowk, Botanical Garden–City Centre, etc.
 
 However, they have been plying on the main routes including the Sector 18 to Botanical Garden route.
 
 In a bureaucratic reshuffle on Saturday, the state government appointed Jha, who was additional SP in Shamli, as the SP (traffic), Gautam Budh Nagar, while former SP (traffic) Prabal Pratap Singh was shifted to Saharanpur as SP (city).
 
 
