NEW DELHI: The Delhi government has decided to outsource pharmacies at its top five hospitals. High-end diagnostic services have already been outsourced.

 The budget also mentions the government’s plan to partner with 41 private sector hospitals with NABH accreditation to deliver “quality treatment” in 30 critical and life-saving surgeries if the same service is not readily available in government hospitals.
 
 “Under the scheme, patients who are undergoing treatment in Delhi government hospitals and have a long waiting period, will be referred to a private hospital. The government will reimburse the private hospital at CGHS rate,” the finance minister explained.
 
 Health officials claim outsourcing will help ensure prompt service to people but experts warn this could shift focus from augmenting infrastructure in public hospitals, many of which are in a state of neglect.
 
 Delhi finance minister Manish Sisodia proposed a budget outlay of Rs 5,736 crore for health, about 12 per cent of the total budget of Rs 48,000 crore for financial year 2017-18. This, officials said, is nine per cent more compared to the last year’s fiscal’s outlay of Rs 5259 crore.
 
 It mentions that pharmacies of five Delhi government hospitals -- Lok Nayak, GTB, Baba Saheb Ambedkar, DDU and Lal Bahadur Shastri – will be outsourced. 
 
 “The government has already allowed free MRI and CT scans for citizens availing healthcare facilities through Delhi government hospitals. Lab facilities and tele-radiology through public private partnership (PPP) will be strengthened,” he said
 
 Public health economist Amir Ullah Khan told TOI outsourcing of critical services is an acceptance of the fact that private sector is more efficient and cost-effective compared to public sector. “It is a good move but sustainability of this scheme will be a major issue. How will the government pay for surgeries and high-end imaging services of so many people in private sector,” he asked.
 
 Government officials say work is on to increase the number of beds in the state-run hospitals from 10,000 to 25,000 to reduce waiting time and that outsourcing is a temporary measure to provide relief to patients struggling to get a bed at present.
 
 “Three hospitals at Burari, Ambedkar Nagar and Dwarka are under construction and another four are to be established at Sarita Vihar, Nangloi, Madipur and Sirsapur. There will be 5,000 new beds in these seven hospitals,” said an official.
 
