Actor Suniel Shetty’s tryst with   began long ago… right when he was in school, which explains why he enjoys such a lean mean form even at the age of 55. Let’s go back to the start...

 
 
  As a child, I couldn’t afford going to the  , so I started doing pull-ups, push-ups, suryanamaskar, dand baithak and other forms of yoga. I also trained in martial arts and practiced freehand exercises. 
 
  
 
  is not attained in a day, you have to be consistent. I’ve never abused my body. But in the last three and a half years, I have turned to yoga in a big way. My father (the late Veerappa Shetty) went through a lot health-wise. I was at home most of the time with him. I couldn’t help being stressed and developed severe migraine. For this I was on medication, which harmed my body. Then someone suggested yoga. Pranayam cured my migraine. It helped me retain my equilibrium through the trying period. It helped me stay calm and deal with life’s blows. Today, I feel more energetic than ever. I don’t need a bulky physique today. At my age, I won’t be able to carry it. I rest enough because it helps me restore my muscles. Most trainers today are only interested in urging you to try supplements as a shortcut. But every body has its own strength. Work on that.
 
  
 
 I’ve never believed in having protein shakes, steroids or supplements. I believe in natural food. Like coconut water/coconut oil is said to have innumerable benefits. Turmeric is something our grandparents used as medicine. It has amazing antiseptic properties. But we sidelined it. We need to go back to our roots.
 
  
 
  Today’s actors do appear fit. But I don’t know if it’s actual fitness or gym fitness. For me fitness is an ongoing effort. Like Amitabh Bachchan. His energy is unbelievable. He inspires me. Anil Kapoor and Akshay Kumar are also inspiring. Salman Khan has a great body. Amongst the younger lot, Tiger (Shroff), Sooraj (Pancholi) and Sidharth (Malhotra) are truly fit. 
 
  Achieving a fit body for a film is okay. But people, who truly motivate you with their fitness levels, achieve it over a period of time. As they say, if you do it once then you’re a winner. But if you do it time and again then you’re a champion. I believe that a healthy mind is essential for a healthy body.
 
 
  
 
 
  6:30 AM A litre of warm water with lemon juice
 
  8:30 AM Sprouts and an omelette of four egg whites & quinoa chapati
 
  11:00 AM A plate of seasonal fruits
 
  1:00 PM Brown rice with fish/ chicken, pulses, veggies
 
  4:00 PM Popcorn, soup, veggies
 
  7:30 PM Soup, veggies and fish
 
 -Give physical training to children as early as age two. Encourage kids to attend a gym or sports faculty
 
 
 
 
