Nagpur: Alleging vendetta, an   of Nagpur University (NU) has demanded an inquiry into the evaluation of her final year submissions, dissertation and group activities after she failed while some of her classmates were awarded extra marks in the recently announced result.

 In a letter to the vice-chancellor, Priti Phadke, who had single-handedly fought against NU for amending the syllabus in March, pointed out that the total of viva voce and dissertation marks comes to 92 but she was awarded only 60, which is 15 short of minimum passing marks.
 
 At the same time, another MEd student Pallavi Raut, who was assessed along with Phadke and their classmate Megha Dhok, has been awarded more marks by NU. But Raut actually failed. As per the viva assessment sheet, Raut secured just 71. But, the marklist shows Raut getting 128 marks. Similarly, in other group activities, Phadke has been given less marks or failed.
 
 She claimed director of board of exams Neeraj Khaty admitted the goof-up but has sought a written application from the head of department Rajashri Vaishnav. Khaty didn’t answer TOI’s calls.
 
 Phadke, who had earlier complained to the vice-chancellor about Vaishnav’s threats to fail her, said the HoD has refused to write to the exam section. Similarly, she has pointed out several discrepancies in her result alleging that Vaishnav has deliberately failed her.
 
 On March 13, TOI had reported how NU had violated its own ordinance regarding ATKT norms and debarred MEd, master of physical education (MPEd) and BEd students from appearing in the final exam.
 
 Phadke, who was in her fourth semester, had pointed out the glitch in the syllabus but Vaishnav refused to draw NU’s attention. Following TOI reports, it came to fore that the special task committee comprising Vaishnav had copy-pasted the syllabus from elsewhere and, therefore, the problem had occurred for final semester students.
 
 Later, Phadke had complained to the vice-chancellor about threats being issued by Vaishnav to those students who had demanded amendment to the syllabus.
 
 Vaishnav, who is also dean of interdisciplinary studies, said she was not aware about any demand for the inquiry and allegations against her.
 
 “HoD Rajashri Vaishnav had warned that she would be failing those who went against her directions to not to bring the syllabus issue before the university,” Phadke said.
 
 Vice-chancellor SP Kane, a day before leaving for his UK visit, told TOI that the issue would be put up before the board of examinations but ruled out any change in the result. “Action will be taken if marks of the aggrieved student increases,” he said.
 
 Kane acknowledged that Phadke had complained to him and he had summoned Vaishnav in March. “The HoD wanted to detain the student in third semester over insufficient attendance. But the issue was sorted out and I ensured she was allowed to appear in fourth semester exam,” Kane added.
 
 
