CHENNAI: In the continuing slugfest between rival factions in the  , general secretary V K Sasikala on Friday sacked presidium chairman E Madhusudanan and appointed former minister K A Sengottaiyan in his place.

 The expulsion came wit hin hours of Madhusudanan sending a memorandum to the Election Commission on Sasikala demanding that her appointment as interim general secretary be declared null and void. He said it violated party by-laws. Madhusudanan later told reporters that he had expelled Sasikala much before she announced his removal.
 
 “Madhusudanan has vio lated the party principles and brought disrepute to the party. He has been removed from the primary membership of the party,“ Sasikala said in a statement.
 
 Sengottaiyan is gaining importance in the party. He was appointed organising secretary only a week ago. Madhusudanan, in the eve ning, said the cadres must get ready soon for the election of general secretary. “When former chief minister (J Jayalalithaa) was alive, she used to ask us for a conducive date for holding election for the general secretary post. Since no one other than Amma (Jayalalithaa) used to file nomination, we used to elect her unopposed,“ said Madhusundanan.
 
 “I sent a fax to chief election commissioner Nasim Zaidi and two other commissioners stating that the bylaws framed by our founder M G Ramachandran said that the general secretary should be elected by the primary members of the party. MGR wanted every party flag bearer to vote in the election for the general secretary post. By that scale, the election of Sasikala is null and void and therefore she is not the party's general secretary,“ said Madhusudanan.
 
 The general council is the supreme authority to frame policies and programmes of the party. The decision of the general council is final and binding on all the members of the party, he said.
 
 Madhusudanan said the party bylaws said only a person with five continuous years of membership could become general secretary. “Sasikala is ineligible, because she will complete five years only on March 30,“ said Madhusudanan. Hence, “The nomination of Sasikala as interim general secretary by the general council is in complete violation of the bylaws,“ he said.
 
 It is pertinent to note that during the appointment of Sasikala as general secretary, both Panneerselvam and Madhusudanan were in the party and had supported the decision. Madhusudanan was among the first few leaders to visit Sasikala to persuade her to take over the party reins.
 
