Mumbai: The   system which will be maintained by the Goods and Services Tax Network (GSTN), a not-for-profit company, is the backbone of the new GST regime slated to be ushered in on July 1.   will provide common and shared IT infrastructure to the central and state governments and to the taxpayers. Registration, filing of returns and e-payments will happen via a common GST portal.

 On the sidelines of a conference organised by   and Thomson Reuters in Mumbai on Friday, GSTN chairman   shared his views on the path ahead. Excerpts:
 
 The immediate steps: A beta testing exercise of the GST system will be undertaken in mid-May. State governments, the Central Board of Excise and Customs ( ), tax officials drawn from these departments and actual taxpayers selected by them will be involved in the beta testing exercise. Even chartered accountants will be involved in this initiative — in short, all people who use the system. 
 
 Since a plethora of taxes have been subsumed in GST, data will be flowing to the GST system from nearly 85-90 lakh taxpayers (comprising nearly 65 lakh existing VAT payers, 20 lakh service taxpayers and the balance largely being central excise taxpayers). We expect 260-300 crore of B2B invoices to be uploaded on the GST portal per month. It is a gigantic task and we are fully equipped to meet it.
 
 GSTN will also enable uploading of invoices through an offline tool, which will be helpful in areas which have internet connectivity challenges. Concurrently, we can handle 55,000 taxpayers (ie: users) — this is a very high concurrency standard. We have backup plans ready to increase the capacity, should the need arise.
 
 Confidentiality of data: Even at the planning stage itself, the prime consideration build into the scope of work was the security of the system. The vendor was required to build a system that would be ISO 27001-certified, which is the best standard of financial security in the world. The mandate was given to Infosys in November 2015, which was selected based on a national bidding process.
 
 Security is planned at as many as eight levels, including perimeter, physical, network, software and hardware level. In addition, there is a security operations filter which will run 24x7 and promptly issue any incident alert. The Securities Operation Centre, for this purpose, will be operated by Infosys. Another party will be selected to set up another centre in Delhi. This centre — a Security Management and Analytics Centre — will keep an eye over the functioning of the Securities Operations Centre.
 
 Further, in mid May, a government agency — the Standardisation Testing Quality and Certification (STQC), will come and audit our system. They will conduct VAPT (or virtual assessment and penetration testing). We have taken all the possible action for security data, which includes testing and only the best possible security tools and software will be used.
 
 No user fees from taxpayers: GSTN is a not-for-profit entity set up as a private company. The central and state governments have a 49% shareholding with the balance held by Indian institutional investors. Our original proposal to meet our costs of functioning was to levy a user fee on both the taxpayers and the tax administration. However, when this proposal went to the Empowered Committee of State Finance Ministers, it was rejected. The concern was that taxpayers are collecting tax on behalf of the government, so they should not be charged for filing their tax returns. 
 
 Now, we will be obtaining the user fees of around Rs 550 crore per annum from the governments. The Centre will bear 50% and the balance will be from the states in proportion to the number of taxpayers. To meet our expenses, we have obtained some advance of this user fee. Once GST is in place, we shall be raising user fee invoices per month, the advance received will be adjusted against such advances. Backed by government guarantee, we have raised bank loans for meeting our capital cost of Rs 550 crore and have also tied up for a working capital loan of Rs 250 crore. The contract given to Infosys is of Rs 1,378 crore. The total cost of the project over a five-year period will be Rs 2,800 crore.
 
 Use Of GSPs By Taxpayers: While the GST system will have the GST portal which taxpayers can directly access, they also have the choice of interacting with the GST system via third party service providers known as GST Suvidha Providers (GSPs).
 
 GSPs will enable taxpayers to meet the requirements of GST, such as uploading invoices, filing returns, through their own platform — be it web- or app-based. GSPs will connect with the GST system via a secure application programme interface. Thus, there will be two sets of interactions — one between the taxpayer and GSP, and the second between the GSP and the GST system. GSPs will directly bill the taxpayer for their services.
 
 Contractual agreements between GSTN and GSPs ensure data confidentiality. Till date, 34 companies have been selected to function as GSPs. We can again invite applications, should the need arise. (TOI’s note: Successful GSPs include software companies like TCS, Mastek and Tally Solutions, as also consultancies like Deloitte, Ernst & Young).
 
 Preparedness Of States: You see, what we are doing is the front end — that is where the taxpayers will come, they will register themselves, they will file the return and make tax payment. Back-end is the part where, once we get all the data, we will pass it on to the respective tax authorities. And they will do their tax administration functions like assessment and audit and adjudication — things like that. For states to use the common GST portal, there has to be a certain level of IT enablement. GSTN is hand-holding several states in this regard. However, nine states — Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Goa, Haryana, Sikkim and Meghalaya — are setting up systems on their own. They are also in an advanced stage of preparedness and there will be no challenges come July 1.
 
 
