GHAZIABAD/NOIDA: The   on Friday declared its candidates for all the eight assembly constituencies in Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad despite speculation that the candidates would be announced jointly with possible alliance partner  .

 The party has chosen candidates belonging to the Gujjar community for all the three seats in GB Nagar. Caste and communal equations, on the other hand, have been factored in for the five constituencies of Ghaziabad district.
 
 Sunil Chaudhary (40), a resident of Noida’s Sector 19, who has been associated with the party for over 10 years, has been named as its candidate in Noida. He had contested the 2012 election too from Noida but had lost to BJP’s Mahesh Sharma. He polled only 42,071 votes and came third. Chaudhary, a graduate, owns a few shops in the Sector 18 market. He also owns a movie theatre. Chaudhary had been camping in the SP headquarters in Lucknow for the past several days and pushing for his candidature. “The people of the state and Noida know that SP has delivered on its promises. We are getting good support from the people,” he said.
 
 The Dadri candidate, Raj Kumar Bhati (52), had also contested the last assembly polls and won 23,191 votes. He stood fourth in the 2012 polls in Dadri, which was won by BSP’s Satveer Gujjar. Bhati is a postgraduate and holds a law degree from MMH College of Ghaziabad. He also runs a law school, Vijay Singh Pathik Institute of Law, in Dadri. “I will work for the people of Dadri. I will also focus on promoting education among the children in the constituency,” he said. 
 
 Narendra Nagar, SP’s candidate from Jewar, was associated with SP for several years. However, he could not be contacted.
 
 In the Loni assembly seat in Ghaziabad district, which has a sizeable number of Muslims, SP has fielded Rashid Malik (35), who was the district president of the party from 2011 to 2016. Malik, who owns steel forging units in Ghaziabad and Uttarakhand, is a resident of Kaila Bhatta. Malik, who has been associated with SP for the past 15 years, will be contesting an assembly election for the first time.
 
 In Ghaziabad seat, the SP has fielded Dr Sagar Sharma (45), a BJP turncoat. Sharma, a scribe, used to own a private local television channel till 2008. A PhD-holder in English literature, Sharma had started his political career with BJP in 2009 but had switched loyalties to SP a year later. In the 2012 assembly polls, Sharma was awarded a ticket by SP to contest from the Ghaziabad seat. 
 
 However, the party withdrew his ticket 24 hours before filing of nominations. Sharma, a Raj Nagar resident, will also be contesting an assembly election for the first time. SP has fielded Virendra Yadav (41), a councillor in GMC, from the Sahibabad seat. Yadav will also be contesting an assembly election for the first time. A practising lawyer, Yadav has two postgraduate degrees under his belt.
 
 For the Muradnagar assembly constituency, the party has picked a veteran, Surendra Munni (60), who is a three-time MLA. Munni won his first election in 1980 as an Independent from Ghaziabad. He repeated his performance in 1989 on a Congress ticket from Ghaziabad. In 2002, however, Munni joined SP, which gave him a ticket in the 2004 polls in which he was victorious.
 
 In the Modinagar seat, which has a sizeable number of traders, the SP has fielded Ram Kishor Agarwal (72), a member of Vyapar Mandal. Agarwal has been with SP for the past 20 years and has served as the president of its city unit for three terms. He owns a private college in the Modinagar township.
 
 
