CHENNAI: From dilapidated and mildewed rooms alongside the  , teenage cousins   travel together to a   in the hope of a better future. Their fathers are coolies and their mothers make a few rupees every day by dusting chairs and benches in another nearby college. Aishwarya in her final year is job hunting while Lavanya has one year left to complete her  . But, soon, they will have to leave their home and move to a distant dwelling way outside the city.

 Eighty other families like theirs are also between the hammer and the anvil as the government wants these 'squatters' to make way for the multi-crore integrated storm water drain project designed to help the severely   and Ambattur SIDCO.
 
  
  
 
 
 Apart from a valuable financial compensation, the corporation and slum clearance board have offered to resettle them in newly built tenements in Thirumazhisai, a suburb in Thiruvallur district, 30 km away from Chennai.
 
 "With so much difficulty, we have managed to enrol into a college though we can't afford it. I will lose half a day of my attendance just commuting from there to my college," says Lavanya. "We had opted for cash compensation but, we got confused and worried when officials told us that we may lose more space in our houses than what is actually measured," says her mother Shanthi Kumar. "So, we have no choice but to leave our place of safety and familiarity and we signed to be resettled."
 
 A majority of the families who have lived for generations in the interiors of Anna Street, Kalaignar Street, MGR Nagar and Rajiv Gandhi Street with well-laid roads, ration and Aadhaar cards have opted to stay and chosen to let authorities demolish a portion of their houses in exchange for financial compensation. Project officials began visiting their homes regularly last year, taking photos, measurements and convincing the daily wage labourers who work as carpenters, tailors, auto drivers and housemaids to move with a promise of a better life.
 
 Some house owners are firm to stay in the interest of their school-going children. "I get so scared when I drive my auto to Thirumazhisai as it is isolated. Why would I compromise on my children's education and leave," asks Pushparaj, an auto driver.
 
 However, others are eager to resettle and restart their lives. Vatchala Ravi, who lives with her daughters and husband in a rented room the size of a football goal, wants to move, along with her neighbours on Anna Street. Their houses have been ravaged by the floods and cyclone and they lost their common toilets, tailoring machines, fridge, TV, and with no means to rebuild, they are ready to leave.
 
 Her daughters in class 11 and 12 say they are convinced they will find similar schools and friends in the new place. "They have told us that they will not lose focus till school final exams are over," says Ravi. "We recurrently get fevers here because of the mosquito menace from the canal," says her neighbour Kutty Soundarya. "We are at the risk of flooding again and when we have an option to move to a better house, we are determined to go."
 
