BENGALURU: Agitated over reports saying their institution would be closed and they would be moved to another college 12km away, over 100 pre-university students of  , New Fort, Chamarajpet, staged a demonstration on Friday. 

 The strike was withdrawn after officials spoke to the students and allayed their fears. The students claimed they had been told by several people that their 40-year-old institution would be shut down and they would be shifted to a college in Shivajinagar. The rumours left the students, most of whom are from economically weaker sections and work after class hours, enraged. They thought commuting such a large distance would only force them to drop out.
 
 The protesters marched to the commissioner of public instruction’s office on Nrupatunga Road around 10.30am and sat on a dharna. CPI officials told them the matter pertained to the department of pre-university (DPUE). The students landed at the PU board office in Malleswaram later in the afternoon, where officials pacified them. 
 
 DPUE director C Shikha said, “We are merging the Old Fort and New Fort schools. The students will remain in their schools and will not be shifted anywhere. Both the schools will come under one code, so that another college can be started under the other code in an area where a college is needed. We don’t intend to cause discomfort to students. Only the extra staff is being shifted.”
 
 School principal HS Suresh said, “We have just got a notification on the merger of Old Fort and New Fort schools. The staff waited for the students all morning; only later did we come to know that they had staged a  .”
 
 Imran Khan, a student, said the shifting rumours sent him into panic mode. “I can’t shift because I work at a nearby medical shop after school hours. We can’t afford to travel to Shivajinagar every day,” he said.
 
 Aisha Taj, II PUC student, said, “My parents will never allow me to go to Shivajinagar to study. This school is near my home.” There are about 116   at New Fort Government High School and PU College.
 
 DPUE has decided to merge about 14 colleges across Karnataka, so that new government colleges can come up.
 
