New Delhi:   is almost breathless when he reaches the small shop in the Walled City’s Lal Kuan with its magically colourful stacks of paper kites and   spools. He wants ‘pakka manjha’. “Saddi (raw cotton thread) is used by kids,” the 17-year-old announces. “Real kite fights require stronger material, not kachha  .” Mohammad Shahid, the seller, scratches his hennaed beard as he listens to the youngster’s demand for the nylon thread and then tells the crestfallen boy that all synthetic fibres for flying kites were banned earlier in the day by the National Green Tribunal.

 Already hanging by the proverbial thin thread after computers and smartphones distracted people from outdoor games, kite-flying could suffer a mortal blow with the   on the sale of nylon and ‘Chinese’ manjha — both favoured in patangbaazi for their ability to cut — for the danger they posed to birds and animals, even humans. “In the month of Sawan, we did not even have time to breathe selling kites,” said Shahid of the hectic July-August period in which kites are flown.
 
 The 50-year-old kite seller has ready anecdotes about how the market was set up in the times of the great Mughals and how the skies during Teej, Raksha Bandhan and Independence Day were filled with colourful kites of varying shapes and sizes. But he now worries, “This is a death knell for the industry that engages poor widows and impoverished children across the country.”
 
 The industry had a minor slump when Chinese manjha was banned last year after a growing clamour against it. Thousands of birds are killed every year, injured by manjha or entangled in the unbreakable strings. Shri Digambar Jain Lal Mandir bird hospital treated 500 birds for injuries in just three days straddling Independence Day in 2016. Some motorcyclists too have died after being injured by the razor-sharp kite strings on busy roads.
 
 Last year, power companies also reported 33 instances of strings tripping power supply, up from 18 in 2015, leading utilities Reliance Power and Tata Power to regularly urge people not to fly kites near electricity establishments.
 
 The only thrill in kite fights will remain in using cotton thread treated with glass, the traditional manjha. But will this enthuse the modern youth? “Yes, people used to treat saddi with additives to make it stronger and sharper, but who has the time for that now? Besides, cotton is more expensive than synthetics,” pointed out kite seller Jameel Hussain.
 
 Some of Hussain’s ilk think they should approach the higher courts for “protection of our rights”. A few remain hopeful. Vikram Singh, owner of Modi Threads store, says assuredly, “Synthetic strings are of recent origin while kite-flying is centuries old. People will revert to using cotton threads and lives will be saved.”
 
 Animal welfare groups such as People of Ethical Treatment of Animals, though, are keen to press on. “Prohibiting the use of synthetic manjha is a lifesaving step. We must now fight till all dangerous manjha is banned,” says Nikunj Sharma, head, public policy, PETA.
 
