MUMBAI: The Bombay   on Thursday directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation ( ) to forthwith pull down hoardings and banners put up by political parties and candidates without permission for the ensuing civic  .

 “Steps shall be immediately initiated by the municipal commissioner to ensure that all illegal sky signs and   are removed before elections are held on February 21,’’ said a bench of Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Anuja Prabhudessai in their order. It also directed that the municipal commissioner “shall ensure the criminal law is set in motion’’ against persons responsible under the BMC Act and the Maharashtra Prevention of Defacement of Property Act by approaching the police station concerned.
 
 On January 31, the court had passed detailed judgment with exhaustive directions on a clutch of public interest litigation. It had de-tagged a PIL by activist Bhagwanji Raiyani and heard him on Thursday. Raiyani argued that the high court’s directions are flouted and there is hardly any implementation. 
 
 Raiyani then submitted that on account of the civic polls a large number of  , illegal hoardings, sky signs and advertisements have come up for BMC polls and all political parties are indulging in gross illegality.
 
 “You can’t neglect your duty because of municipal elections,” said Justice Oka.
 
 The court took note that from among the photographs clicked by Raiyani on February 14, “some bear photographs of the chief minister”.
 
 “Notwithstanding the directions (given on January 31) it appears that the municipal corporation has turned a blind eye to the display of illegal sky signs and advertisements on account of civic elections,” said the bench. The judges said in the January 31 judgment directions have already been issued to the Election Commission of India and the State Election Commission “to look into the misconduct on the part of registered political parties”. They said the January 31 judgment binds all municipal corporations and councils in Maharashtra. 
 
 In addition to earlier directions, the judges directed that while granting permissions for displaying hoardings not only should the permission number and duration be displayed on it but also the name of permission holder with contact number and the name of the printer.
 
 
