MUMBAI: The   probing a   racket at   have found that 52 people from   flew to   and the US with   since January 2016. Only one of them has been caught and deported from Canada while the others have been living illegally in the two countries.

 It was the lone person deported from Canada in the second week of May, Komal Damgar (30), who spilled the beans on the racket. Damgar flew to Canada by an Air France flight, with a 56-year-old man from Punjab using his daughter’s passport. As immigration officials in Canada felt something amiss about the duo and questioned them, Damgar admitted that she was not Manjit Singh’s daughter. “Singh tampered his daughter’s passport and pasted Damgar’s photo on it to help her go to Canada,” said an officer from Sahar police station. 
 
 Canada authorities deported Damgar the very next day, while Singh is still in custody there. 
 
 During questioning in Mumbai, Damgar told police about the racket, involving immigration officials. 
 
 The police have so far arrested 13 persons, including four immigration officials, in the case. One more immigration official is under police lens. “We are collecting more details before arresting the fifth immigration official whose seems to be hand in glove with the racketeers. After his arrest, we will be able to know if more people have been trafficked. Total nine travel agents have been arrested,” said the police officer.
 
 Investigators said the immigration officials were arrested after analysis of the call data records (CDR) of the arrested kingpin’s son Imran Shaikh (30) revealed that he had communicated with them on several occasions since 2016 for clearance of his clients flying to Canada and the US with forged passports and visa. 
 
 “All the trafficked people were from Gujarat. Shaikh was the coordinator between the agents and the immigration officers,” an investigator said. “Shaikh used to get details of the immigration officials’ work rota and book clients’ tickets based on that, to ensure flyers with forged passport are cleared,” the investigator added.
 
 Investigators have also found that passports were used multiple times by tampering them. After reaching the US or Canada, the flyers would send their passports back to India through courier. It would be then tampered for another person by replacing the photograph, an investigator said.
 
 
