CHENNAI:  , son of DMK patriarch  , on Wednesday became the first working president of the party. With the 93-year old DMK patriarch ailing and the party requiring a full time president, the party finally decided to anoint the prince-in-waiting Stalin as the working president.

 The party's 3,500-member general council unanimously approved 63-year-old Stalin's elevation by amending the party bylaw. An emotional Stalin said he was accepting the post with a heavy heart as his father and Thalaivar (leader) was unwell. The council also conferred all powers of the party president on Stalin.
 
 The change of guard in the oldest Dravidian party was a smooth affair unlike the all out war in   between father and son in UP .While Karunanidhi could not make it to the meeting, his 94 year-old party colleague and general secretary   walked into the party headquarters with a walking stick and proposed the amendment to the party bylaws that facilitated Stalin's elevation. General council members from across the state had converged on the headquarters and were seen telling TV channels that they all expected the elevation. The council first took up obituary references and party spokesperson T K S Elangovan read out all the 16 resolutions. The moment finally came as Anbazhagan proposed amending rule 18 by inserting subclause 4 that paved the way for the appointment of Stalin as working president.
 
 The motion was seconded by principal secretary S Du by principal secretary S Duraimurugan. “I recall a 1960 incident in which C N Annadurai, while appointing V R Nedunchezhian as general secretary, said, 'thambi, come and take charge'. I borrow the words from Anna and say 'thambi (Stalin), come and take charge,“ said Duraimurugan. As he said 'thambi', Duraimurugan's voice broke, and many others, including Stalin, became emotional.
 
 Later, the motion amending the bylaw was passed unanimously and people inside Kalaignar Arangam and on the Arivalayam premises went into raptures.
 
 In a short acceptance speech, Stalin recalled his growth in the party since he was a child. “All my previous posts were through election and that gave me joy and excitement. But the present one I accept with a heavy heart due to the health condition of our thalaivar, and this post is due to circumstances. I will still consult thalaivar, general secretary Duraimurugan and other senior leaders before taking any decision,“ said Stalin. “When I was elected Chennai mayor in 1996, Karunanidhi said mayor is not a post but a responsibility. I consider the working president as a responsibility as said by thalaivar,“ said Stalin.
 
 Stalin's half sister Kanimozhi said the elevation was a reward for his hard work. “It has been the wish of all cadres and it has been realised now.“
 
 Stalin went to Gopalapuram and received blessings of Karunanidhi. In the evening, he paid homage to Anna and Periyar before meeting chief minister   at the secretariat.
 
