MUMBAI: A special court on Wednesday declined to discharge alleged   of all offences he was charged with but expressed that it was not inclined to retain crucial charges under section 20 and 38 of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. Section 20 deals with being a member of terror outfit and section 38 with being associated with terrorist organisations. It will be a slight setback for the prosecution if the two charges are dropped.

 The court, however, said it proposed to frame charges of offence of “committing acts of terror” under section 16 of UAPA and criminal conspiracy under section 18 of the Act as well as an offence of waging war against nations that have friendly relations with India under section 125 of the IPC. 
 
 The   case is that in 2014 when Areeb was 21, he left his home on the pretext of going on a pilgrimage, but he and three others went to Syria to join ISIL to carry out “jihadi activities in Syria, Iraq and India”. 
 
 Areeb's defence lawyer Mubin Solkar while arguing against framing of charges had sought that all charges against him be dropped for want of any incriminating material. He had especially argued against sections 20 and 38 of UAPA. 
 
 During the arguments, the prosecutor, Rathod, had said that NIA won't press the charge under section 38 of UAPA. 
 
 On Wednesday, after his other lawyer Farhana Shah said Areeb whose is still in judicial custody following his arrest on November 29, 2014 was not produced in court, special trial judge V V Patil posted the case for framing of charges on February 22 mentioning only the three charges he proposed to frame. 
 
 Earlier last year, the court had refused to release him on bail and proceeded with arguments for framing of charge—a pre-trial step. Solkar had argued that there were many “discrepancies in the prosecution case” which, he had said, raise doubts of “complete fabrication’’ of the case against him.
 
 Solkar argued that Areeb could not be charged as a being a member of a terror outfit is not attracted since IS was not a banned outfit at the time of the alleged conspiracy being hatched mid-2014 or when the case was registered by the NIA in November 2014. The NIA said the US had banned ISIS in August. 
 
 Solkar said there was no material in the chargesheet to show that he was a member of IS. The only document relied upon was a letter by IS permitting him to travel Solkar said adding that the document was “fabricated” as it was never recovered at the time of his arrest when the agency conducted a personal search. 
 
 Areeb, who was studying civil engineering turned 24 years old last year. His father is a Unani doctor in Kalyan. 
 
 Solkar said the agency is relying on a “defective sanction” to prosecute Areeb and also more significantly did not have a prior sanction to conduct any inquiry as required under section 188 of criminal procedure code for alleged offences committed abroad. Solkar said the panchanama—a document that records recovery proceedings—by the NIA appears fabricated as it contains social media posts of a later time period.
 
 Besides, in the   registered on November 28, 2014, Areeb was shown as “arrested accused”, Solkar argued, but a station diary entry of the ATS-Kala Chowkie unit shows that he was handed over to the NIA at 1 am on November 29. 
 
 
