

 
 Sania Ahmad | 29 | copywriter | Delhi
 
 The   has upheld death penalty to rapists in the   Case, and frankly speaking I am shocked! A criminal justice system I had lost faith in was turning out to be that efficient? Unbelievable! This verdict takes me back to December 22, 2012 when the common man turned out in full force to protest this abhorrent act against one of its daughters. 
 
 As a woman, I had become a quivering mass of outrage when I first heard the news, and nothing could stop me from being there, of course! The protest stretched from Raisina Hill all the way to   and never before had I seen such a multitude so motivated and angered for a cause. What started as a peaceful agitation soon roller-coasted into mayhem as the Delhi Police started tear gassing and water cannoning, and finally resorting to a lathicharge. Broken arms, burning eyes, choked throats-that day saw it all. Yes, this was the government of a democracy turning against its own people, forget the right to protest. And yet, I was optimistic. People were finally waking up from their slumber. 
 
 Too much optimism, too soon. A couple of months later, things went back to the Indian ‘normal’. Men who had been bristling with indignation at the crime went back to sitting at nukkads, leching at girls. Parents who had been a part of the protest went back to keeping their daughters at home after sunset. Today, autos still refuse women at night. New Year’s Eve still witnesses record number of molestations. I still don’t go out alone after 9. Today, Nirbhaya’s India has gone back to sleep again. 
 
 
 Ram Devineni | 44 | filmmaker | New York
 
 I was in Delhi when the   gang-rape and murder happened. I was stunned by the degree of violence inflicted in this attack. Horrified and angry with the system’s indifference, I participated in street protests for the next four to five days. During one protest, I asked a police officer about this incident and why it had happened. His response was that “no good girl stays out at night”. He implied that what happened to Nirbhaya on that bus was in a way her fault. This statement made me understand that rape was a cultural problem, and we needed a huge shift in mindsets to bring down violence against women.
 
  
  
 Before this, I had made documentaries of conflict, culture but I never thought I would make a film on women’s issues. Nirbhaya changed all that. I decided to study gender violence in depth. I travelled extensively within India and South-East Asia, interacted with gender activists, NGOs, writers and philosophers to understand patriarchy and how it shapes people’s attitudes towards gender. During my research I met two survivors of gang-rapes in Uttar Pradesh. They talked about their struggle to get justice and the lack of empathy from society. 
 The burden of shame was put on them instead of the perpetrators of the crime.
 
 Armed with all this knowledge I, along with collaborators, created Priya’s Shakti, a comic book about a rape survivor and superhero. She fights for gender equality and changes people’s perceptions towards women. It was released in December 2014 and has had more than 5 lakh digital downloads so far. Last year we added a chapter where Priya helps a group of acid attack survivors. Now, we are working on her next adventure in which she takes on sex trafficking. 
 — As told to Shobita Dhar
 
 
 
 Mushtaq Anjum | 30 | Professor, Baramulla
 
 Mushtaq Anjum, a professor of Arabic at the Government Degree College, Baramulla in J&K, was studying for his PhD at JNU when the Nirbhaya gang-rape hit headlines. “JNU students are involved in a lot of protests but this was different. Even those who usually don’t come out on the streets, like senior citizens, participated,’’ he recalls.
 
  
  
 He recalls that the incident came on the back of regressive remarks by politicians, and khap panchayats running amok with statements justifying honour killings. “We felt that the government was not doing enough to protect women and if this was the state of affairs in Delhi, what could one say about other states?’’
 
 Anjum feels the incident changed his outlook towards women’s rights, and brought with it the realisation that a people’s movement could be the catalyst for change. “I was very indifferent towards such incidents earlier. But after participating in the protests, I realised that we had succeeded in making a dent. The culprits were caught, and the government was forced to set up the Verma committee. It was a turning point for India.” 
 — As told to Himanshi Dhawan
 
 
 
 
 
