New Delhi: The New Delhi Municipal Council ( ) has agreed to give another couple of weeks’ time to the   traders for submitting structural safety certificates.

 The New Delhi Traders Association (NDTA) had been asking for more time to submit the certificates. Earlier, the council had asked the traders to submit the documents in two weeks, following the second roof collapse in Connaught Place (L-block) on February 11.
 
 The traders said that they had invited structural engineers to inspect their respective units, but they were asked to submit the layout plan for further inspection.
 
 “We were asked to submit the structural safety certificates but we don’t have the layout plan. Without the plan the structural engineers cannot assess the stability of the heritage building. We have written to NDMC about the same but we are yet to get any reply,” said Atul Bhargava, president of NDTA.
 
 Bhargava further said that as per the building bylaws all owners do not have to submit the certificates. “We are on board with NDMC with this, as even we want to assure the safety of our building but the council should launch a major crackdown against illegal constructions and encroachments,” he said.
 
 The council had directed 900 units to submit the certificates, but so far it has received only 300 of them. The first roof collapse happened on February 2, in C-block of Connaught Place.
 
 The two collapses had raised major safety concerns and NDMC had formed 15 teams to inspect the rooftop and take necessary action. Experts from IIT Delhi were also called to carry out inspection of the rooftop. However, the council is apparently still compiling the report though the teams submitted their assessment 10 days ago.
 
 “The owners have asked for more time and we have given them another couple of weeks to submit the certificates. Even as we formed teams to inspect the buildings, it is also the responsibility of the owners to get their properties inspected,” said a senior NDMC official.
 
 Officials claimed that unless the owners submit the certificates, NDMC cannot assess the stability of the building. “Our teams had only conducted visual inspections and it is the duty of the owners to get their properties assessed methodically,” added the official.
 
 However, sources claimed that the council do not have layout plans for all the owners, as many units are running illegally or without permission and the traders are delaying the process to avoid assessment of their properties by the designated engineers.
 
 The council had also asked Khan Market traders to submit structural safety certificates, but they had asked NDMC to carry out its own inspection.
 
 “We met the structural engineers to understand the seriousness of separate inspection to be done by a private firm, but we were informed it is of no use. And to ensure the safety of the building we have asked NDMC to carry out its own assessment but we haven’t received any confirmation from the council yet,” said Sanjiv Mehra, president of Khan Market Traders Association.
 
 
