PUNE: The   has bagged the ninth position in a third party cleanliness survey conducted by the   this year.

 The result of the survey, which was conducted by the Quality Council of India (QCT), was released by railway minister   in Delhi on Wednesday.
 
 A similar survey was conducted by the IRCTC (Indian railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Limited) in March last year, in which Pune Junction was ranked 75th among the A1 category stations.
 
 “A total of 75 stations in the A1 category and 332 stations in the A category were surveyed by the agency. One can say 407 stations were surveyed in total. The parameters adopted for the survey included evaluating the cleaning process in the parking, and entry and exit areas, the main platform, waiting rooms, as well active passenger feedback. The assessors continuously monitored these parameters. A 24-hour control room was set up and images were geo-tagged to monitor the progress,” a railway official told TOI.
 
 The official added that the survey was conducted through interviews and a questionnaire on cleanliness indicators, which was done by the survey teams by visiting all the stations across 16 zonal railways.
 
 “Every passenger was asked to rate the cleanliness of the stations objectively on 40 different parameters,” the official said.
 
 Pune division DRM (divisional railway manager) B.K Dadabhoy thanked the people for their support.
 
 “Pune junction is among the most important stations under the division. The comeback was tough and we put in a lot of effort. We want to improve further on all aspects,” Dadabhoy said.
 
 Manoj Jhawar, public relations officer (PRO) of the Pune division said an independent agency had been outsourced three years ago to look after the cleanliness of the station.
 
 “As many as 185 people worked under the DRM. The agency had been fined too for work related lapses on many occasions,” Jhawar said.
 
 A source said the team of surveyors had arrived in Pune towards the end of March for the two-days survey.
 
 “Special teams of railway officials and employees have been formed to look after the cleanliness aspect in the station. Besides, NGOs and even students are involved to spread awareness on the same,” another official said. 
 
 Pune station witnesses a total of 160 trains which originate or pass through. They include 40 local trains and 120 mail/ express trains.
 
 Passengers said though things look fine, more is required.
 
 “I visit the station often and can see people cleaning the premises all the time. Moreover, the railways have painted some of the walls in the station, which gives it a beautiful look. However, the washrooms need improvement,” Deepak Datye, a Daund resident, said.
 
 Suparna Gadre, a regular train commuter, said, “The station has improved, but the area outside is a mess even now. There is too much chaos and people spit wherever they like. These things should improve,” she pointed out.
 
 Harsha Sahaa, president of the Railway Pravasi group, said, “Yearly, a sum of around Rs 6 crore is spent on cleanliness by the Pune authorities. Last year was a disaster and it seems that they have succeeded in pulling up their socks and turning things around. The cleanliness speaks for itself.”
 
