INDORE: With hopes of good   and growing demand for non-chemical produce, the demand for   is expected to grow by over 15 per cent this sowing season. 
 
 In  , the leading producer of soybean, pulses, wheat and cotton, the sale of bio stimulants are growing at an encouraging pace. 
 
 “At present in India the market for bio-fertilisers is Rs 750 crore which is likely to rise to over Rs 1,000 crore in coming few years due to growing awareness and demand,” said Puneet Gautam, head, strategic marketing and business development,   Mumbai.
 
 Market experts said at present bio-fertilisers market in India is small due to lack of skilled farmers and knowledge but with growing demand from consumers for natural products, the use of bio stimulants is rising. The overall agro chemical market in India is about Rs 16,000 crore. 
 
 Looking at the growing demand of bio-fertilisers, international companies are eyeing India as a potential market for bio stimulants. 
 
 “Growers are gradually recognizing the benefits of bio-fertilisers. These are now being used in traditional crops as well besides fruits and vegetables. Growth rate is expected much higher in MP as it is leading producer of many traditional crops,” said Cytozyme CEO  .
 
 Initial forecast by the Met department of average monsoon rains this season to hit the state by June 15 has further boosted the hopes of better demand for bio-stimulants. 
 
 “Bio stimulants can help in increasing the yield of soybean and oilseeds by 10-15 per cent. At present the market is very small just about 5 per cent but growth rate is very high,” said Crystal Crop Protection managing director Ankur Aggarwal.
 
 Though, market experts said supply of bio-fertilisers is not readily available and there is a need to increase the production. 
 
 As per the latest data available with the   total production of bio-fertilisers in India was about 95,000 tonne during 2015-16. In Madhya Pradesh the production is close to 2,800 tonne. 
 
 Dr D L N Rao, emeritus scientist, Indian Institute of Soil Science said, “In India bio-fertiliser production has been growing at about 14 per cent. In MP it is much lower and needs to be improved.”
 
 Rao said substantial part of production of bio-fertilisers is in the private hands for which order is required to be given in advance.
 
