CHANDIGARH: With the   adopting a new system when it comes student transfers in Class X and XII, students will no longer be able to take a transfer from a school in Chandigarh to Mohali or Panchkula and vice-versa, as the entire   will now be considered as one city.

 This has left many parents fuming, especially those who were planning to transfer their children. They have also written to the regional CBSE office in this regard and met CBSE officials, but they have refused to accept their pleas. Chandigarh Parents’ Association president Nitin Goyal described the “blanket ban” on school transfers in a particular class, as “unjust and illegal”. “There are genuine cases where parents need to transfer their kids from one school to another due to economic reasons, such as change in family circumstances. They recently declined agenuine case,” he said.
 
 A parent, who did not wish to be named, said the CBSE was even considering Kharar to be a part of tricity. “If a student has already taken transfer certificate (TC) from the previous school, then new school is not giving admission. The TC was taken thinking it will be allowed, as till last year transfer cases were considered. The rule should have been passed earlier, before results were declared. Then, parents would not have taken TC,” the parent said.
 
 When contacted, CBSE regional officer Joseph Emmanuel assured that they would consider genuine cases for transfer. “We understand that there will be genuine cases, so exceptions will be given. Parents will have to produce proof which should not include an affidavit as it is the easiest way of fraud. Anyone can get it made.
 
 They can give electricity bills or any other proof. Besides this, both schools — which the child will leave and seeking transfer to — will have to give in writing that it is a genuine case and should be considered,” said Emmanuel.
 
 The aim, he said, was to put an end to dummy culture. He hinted that the move came after some cases, including the case of a Sector 20-based private school in Chandigarh came to fore where the school had given admission to students in Class XII even though they failed in Class XI in some other school.
 
