LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh is all set to join five other states to frame a law to regulate the fee structure in  . Aimed at providing relief to   from spiralling fees which are increased every year, the secondary education department has already prepared a draft   titled ‘UP Schools (Regularisation of Fee Collection), 2016’. The ordinance will be placed before the cabinet after seeking opinions from all stakeholders.

 Officials in the education department said the ordinance would prevent   schools in the state from charging exorbitant fees. The government plans to put in place stringent provisions like de-recognition and cancelling the registration of schools for charging more fees than prescribed by the fee-regulating committee, as per the draft ordinance a copy which is in TOI’s possession. Five other states -- Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat, Maharashtra have already brought in similar legislation to regulate fees in private schools 
 
 As per the draft, the fee-regulating committee would be headed by a retired high court judge with principal secretary, secondary education; director, secondary education; director, basic education; chief engineer (building), PWD and deputy secretary,   government as its members. The committee can also recommend to the affiliation granting authorities (CISCE and CBSE board) for de-recognition of the schools charging more fees than prescribed. The committee, said a source, can also withdraw the no-objection certificate given to violating schools.
 
 The committee will fix the fee after taking into consideration its present status, available infrastructure, administrative and maintenance expense, and development welfare expense. The committee, reads the ordinance, will hold enough powers to make changes in fee regulation, as and when it feels. 
 
 The ordinance further says that a committee would also be constituted in all the district to enforce the provisions of the ordinance. Such committees will be headed by an education official equivalent or above the rank of district inspector of schools (DIOS). This committee will visit any school at any time and will have the powers to examine the accounts registers and other documents related to fees. And in case of violation, the committee will have the power to confiscate the documents, including the accounts register.
 
 According to sources, a penalty on schools for the first offence, too, will be fixed. The panel would also look into various aspects of fee structure like library charges, laboratory fee, development fee, etc 
 
 INFO 
 
 1. UP govt frames a draft ordinance to regulate fee charged from private schools 
 
 2. Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat, Maharashtra have already brought in similar legislation to regulate fees in private schools 
 
 3. Fee-regulating committee will be headed by retired high court judge 
 
 4. Schools violating can lose their recognition and also no-objection certificate granted by the state government 
 
 5. A penalty will be fixed for schools who charge fees more than prescribed. 
 
 
