LUCKNOW: Rattled by the resignations of two party MLCs,   chief   said this was a part of  's strategy to shield chief minister   and 4 of his cabinet colleagues from facing the electorate. Jolted by the resignation of BSP MLC Jaiveer Singh, party supremo Mayawati described it as murder of democracy. 

 "The BJP government has been in power for three months but is afraid of facing bypolls and taking a safe passage through the council," he said, alleging that the seats vacated by these MLCs would be given on platter to the BJP ministers who have to become members of either of the houses before September 18. Asked if he had talked to his party MLCs to decipher why they have resigned, Akhilesh said he would contact them. Accusing the BJP of orchestrating the resignations, Akhilesh described it as "political corruption" similar to the one witnessed in   where Nitish Kumar sided with the   to dump its coalition partner RJD led by former ally Lalu Prasad. The SP chief said those who wanted to leave the party for greener pastures will do so anyway, admitting that the party leaders were unaware that MLCs Yashwant Singh and   would resign. 
 
 "They attended the house on Friday but never talked about their complaints with any of party leaders. Today they decided to resign," he said. Bukkal Nawab is facing charges of land grabbing. Soon after the formation of the BJP government, he received notices from the LDA. Yashawant Singh, on the other hand, recently invited Yogi for the launch of his book not Akhilesh Yadav. BSP chief Mayawati said the BJP government was misusing the state machinery for political gains and that the MLCs who resigned should not have succumbed to any threats but instead stood against the high handedness of the government in UP. Like the SP, Mayawati also accused the BJP of orchestrating defections in opposition parties which she said was in line with what the saffron brigade has done earlier in Manipur, Goa, Gujarat and Bihar.
 
 "The BJP wants to divert the attention of the people from its failures in terms of welfare policies and governance and is now out to paint the opposition parties as corrupt by misusing government agencies," Mayawati said in a statement issued here on Saturday.
 
