Nagpur: Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Janardhan Kade and two other cops posted with Indora traffic (Chamber 5) smashed the front and rear wind-shields driver seat window glass of the car belonging to Ravindra Singh Bhamra when the motorists tried to speed away with the vehicle after being stopped for traffic violation. The senior cop was slightly injured when the front tyre of the car grazed past his leg. The incident took place between Kadbi chowk and 10 number puliya on Sunday.  Jaripatka police, allegedly working hand-in-glove with their traffic counterparts, went not just booked Bhamra but also got two days’ police custody for Bhamra and his kin Prabhjot Singh Pelaha citing reason of seeking a third accomplice of the two whose is not even mentioned in FIR. Pelaha is a BCA student of Dr Ambedkar college.  Pelaha was returning home from Sadar when his vehicle was intercepted by ASI Kade for having tinted glasses on the windows. He tried to seek help from owner of the car Bhamra who too soon reached the place. They had an argument with the cops. Police also claim Pelaha did not have driving licence but was driving when cops stopped the car for checking.  Advocate Prashant Sakhre, who appeared for Bhamra and Pelaha in the court, argued there was no mention of any third party in the FIR as claimed by the police. The defence counsel argued that the statement of the complainant in the case did not mention presence of any other person apart from the two accused. Bhamra, secretary with Buddhnagar Gurdwara of north Nagpur and a liquor bar owner, wanted to drive away with his car as the police had already handed him the challan for driving with tinted glasses. The businessman was upset with the cops as they were insisting on detaining the vehicle. As the argument ensued, Bhamrah was taking the car away when ASI Kade came in the way and got hit. Sources in traffic department said ASI Kade was supposed to be present in Kalamna and not Kadbi square where the incident occurred.  This was the second ugly incident associated with Indora traffic outpost after a couple was booked by the cops for arguing over helmet rule. The couple, who were taking their daughter to hospital, wanted the cops to allow them to proceed after taking their photographs for e-challan. The ailing daughter too was injured in the melee that ensued. The couple was also duly booked by Jaripatka police.  In the latest incident, the traffic cops dragged Bhamra and his kin Pelaha to Jaripatka police station where they were locked up and slapped with several charges including causing obstruction to government personnel in discharging his duty (IPC 353), threatening (506) and others too.  Joint CP, Shivaji Bodhke said he would look into the incident. “We will not allow any mistreatment,” he said. Ajit Singh of National Students Union of India now wants to protest the arrest at Indora and seek suspension of erring cops.