PUNE: An inadequate strength of presiding members and shortage of staff as well as space has badly affected the once-in-a-month, weeklong sittings of the state consumer disputes redressal commission’s circuit bench here. 

 “The situation is pitiable, to say the least, as the circuit bench has never functioned the way it was expected to, in terms of the monthly sittings. Consumer matters continue to pile up with more than 1,500 fresh cases filed since the setting up of the circuit bench in March 2015, pending final disposal. The pendency is even more for matters filed since 2001 and are yet to be moved from Mumbai to Pune,” said  , president of the Consumer Advocates Association, Pune. 
 
 “Time and again, the state department for food, civil supplies and consumer protection has ignored pleas by the lawyers body to address the issue of   and space,” said Gaikwad. Incidentally, Pune’s guardian minister   holds the food, civil supplies and consumer protection portfolio in the state cabinet. 
 
 Recently, the circuit bench registry put out a notice postponing the hearing of all matters listed for the July second week sitting, to November, causing discontent among lawyers. “In addition to Pune, matters arising from Solapur district are also allotted to the circuit bench and there is no way for the lawyers and litigants from Solapur to get an advance notice of such postponement. They have to travel all the way to Pune, go through the notice and return disappointed,” said lawyer Dnyanaraj  . 
 
 According to Gaikwad, “Even when the circuit bench holds a sitting, only matters that are due for admission are processed.” A part of the problem lies in the fact that the state commission does not have sufficient number of presiding members, who can be spared for the circuit bench sittings. 
 
 The district consumer court’s registrar has been given an additional charge of the state commission circuit bench but he is also in-charge of Satara and Solapur district consumer courts. Together, the Pune district and additional district consumer courts and the circuit bench have to work from a 3,500 sq ft space which is far less than the actual requirement of 18,000 sq ft, stated Gaikwad.
 
 According to Sant, “Whenever there is a sitting, the district consumer forum’s courtroom is used by the state commission. Litigants barely get space to stand when all the three benches are in operation. Most importantly, justice is getting delayed. The Consumer Protection Act provides for disposal of consumer complaints within 90 days. But, this is not the case with the circuit bench.”
 
