CHENNAI: Neighbourhoods on the city’s fringes may be facing the brunt of the ongoing water crisis, but when it comes to voicing their grievances residents in upmarket   and Anna Nagar seem to be more proactive. Or they just know how to register a complaint.

  Data from Metrowater’s grievance cell show since January this year the highest number of   on   came from Adyar (840) — on an average, 14 calls or online grievances a day — followed by Anna Nagar (587) and Kodambakkam (519). Around 35% of them are yet to be resolved. 
 
 In all, the civic body received around 3,200 complaints from residents on water shortage, and 750 on pollution.
 
 While data with the civic body show the water shortage to be acute in the city’s core areas, on the ground, the shades of blue seem to turn more brown in areas like Thiruvottiyur and Manali on the fringes. In total, only 22 complaints were registered from both zones and resolved. 
 
 But R Jayaraman, president of   in Tiruvottiyur, where 200 families stay, has a different take. “Many of the people here are labourers. They don’t know who to approach for help or how to go about doing it. The only time we seem to come under the civic body’s radar is when we hit the streets in protest,” said Jayaraman, who gets   supply once in a week. He said many of the residents depend on private water tankers that sell water for Rs 5 a pot.
 
 Residents can voice their grievances by availing the civic body’s online facility, calling their helpline or by heading to their respective area metrowater depots. Metrowater officials say at least 80% of the complaints they receive are through calls or in person. 
 
  Ravichandran S, a resident of Navalar Nagar in Tondiarpet zone — from where Metrowater received 116 complaints of water shortage and 96 on water being polluted, said although many in the locality knew who to approach for help, going in person would mean losing out on a day’s wage. 
 
 Owing to a failed monsoon and the dwindling storage levels in the four reservoirs that cater to the city, Chennai Metrowater has cut daily supply from 831 million litres per day (mld) to around 550mld.
 
 According to a research by the economics department of Presidency college, a majority of people in North Chennai depend primarily on Metrowater as the marketisation of water in these areas is lesser. The study surveying 450 households across the city found that the higher the level of household income, the lower the per capita water consumption per day.
 
 Metrowater officials say most of the complaints have been individual ones and not from areas. “As for spreading awareness, we are more proactive than reactive in poorer sections,” he said.
 
