JAIPUR: Putting the state government and police under pressure, agitating doctors gave a 48-hour strike ultimatum to arrest the accused who attacked   six days ago in the city on Wednesday.

 Doctors of various organisations, including the   (JMA), Private Hospital and Nursing Home Society (PHNHS), Medical Practitioners’ Society, Rajasthan Medical College Teachers’ Association (RMCTA) and Jaipur Association of Resident Doctors, held a meeting and decided to go on strike if their demands were not met in 48 hours.
 
 JMA secretary Dr S S Joshi said, “We are demanding the arrest of all those who attacked Bansal Hospital as revealed by the CCTV footage. Also, we want the police to implement the Hospital Protection Act (HPA) strictly.”
 
 “Although the police have clear evidence, the accused are roaming freely,” PHNHS secretary Dr Vijay Kapoor said, demanding why the HPA was not being implemented properly.
 
 RMCTA president Dr S S Yadav said, “If such attacks on doctors continue, no one will want to join the profession. We are seeing a trend of more and more candidates opting for branches such as radiology. This is not because it’s lucrative, but because it does not require so much interaction with patients. But this is required in other critical care branches. So, we have to feel safe.”
 
 Reacting to the threat of strike by doctors, health minister Kalicharan Saraf said, “The police are doing their work. They have already made an arrest in this matter. Also, I think doctors must understand this and they should not go on strike, which will affect patients.”
 
 Meanwhile, the residents of Barkat Nagar took to the streets and staged a protest at Jyoti Nagar. They are also readying for a long battle. A resident of the area, Krishan Kumar Haritwal, said, “We postponed our protest today as the police have assured us that they need 24 hours to act on our demand. We have demanded the arrest of accused doctors of the private hospital where a patient died due to medical negligence.”
 
 The chief medical health officer (CMHO), Jaipur I, submitted a report to the health minister prepared by a committee of three doctors, including a surgeon, medicine specialist and a medical officer.
 
 The committee investigated the matter and prepared a report on the treatment provided to patient Ratan Saini, who died at the hospital six days ago, allegedly due to medical negligence.
 
 Following the death, the hospital witnessed violence in which Dr Bansal suffered injuries. The committee also prepared a report on the facilities available at the hospital for treatment of patients with critical illnesses.
 
