NOIDA: Police on Tuesday gave a clean chit to the driver of the   involved in Sunday’s   that killed a 28-year-old Delhi resident. Cops said the Lamborghini was being driven by Greater Noida resident Vaibhav Singh, who had taken it out for a test drive from a Delhi-based showroom.

 SP (city) Arun Kumar Singh said, “I have myself seen the CCTV footage of the accident and it is clear that the Lamborghini driver was not at fault and is a sufferer in the case. It was the   driver who suddenly swerved towards the left, which caused the Lamborghini to hit the Maruti Eeco. It might be inhuman to leave the victim, Asad Ahmed (the driver of Eeco), there and flee the spot, but it can’t be termed as a criminal act.”
 
 Though an FIR has been lodged against the Swift Dzire driver based on a complaint by Asad’s nephew Abdul Rauf, police said they would include Vaibhav’s name in the case only if the victim’s family wants it. The Lamborghini showroom, Italica Motors Private Limited, has also given its version of the accident to the police. Italica’s assistant manager, Pushant Singh, was in the car at the time of the accident, cops said.
 
 Police said they have summoned the Lamborghini driver and the owners of the showroom to explain their version of the story on Wednesday. “We have found that the car was being driven by Vaibhav Singh from Greater Noida. It belongs to Italica Motors Private Limited of Delhi. It has to be seen if the Lamborghini driver’s name has to be included in the case,” Devpal Singh Pundhir, SHO of Expressway police station, said.
 
 The CCTV footage of the accident, which has gone viral, shows how the Swift Dzire driving on the Greater Noida-Noida carriageway of the expressway around 5pm on Saturday deviated to its left, causing the Lamborghini travelling on the second lane to deviate to the left too.
 
 This resulted in a collision between the Lamborghini and Asad’s Eeco (DL1V3040) which lost balance and toppled thrice before it finally landed in the drain running parallel to the Greater Noida-Noida carriageway. Asad was declared brought dead at the hospital.
 
 Asad’s nephew had Monday said that they would soon lodge a complaint against the Lamborghini driver. “We lodged a complaint against the driver of the Swift, but after seeing the CCTV footage, we want to lodge a complaint against the   too,” he said.
 
 Swift Dzire driver Mohnish Khan, who was arrested by police on Sunday itself, had claimed that the Lamborghini was trying to overtake his vehicle and he overtook it following the same. He has been booked under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304 A (causing death by negligence) of IPC.
 
