NEW DELHI: Looking to regain lost ground in the city, Congress is planning to woo Dalits in the upcoming civic polls.   president Ajay Maken on Sunday said the party would organise “Dalit Nyaya March” across the 46 reserved municipal wards to highlight issues related to the community, which, he claimed, had been neglected by both BJP and AAP.

 Maken said the march would start from the Mangolpuri ward on March 8, a day after Congress vice-president   addresses a rally at  . It will proceed to 45 other wards over two weeks. Delhi has 272 municipal wards, of which 46 have been reserved by the state election commission post-delimitation.
 
 “The Dalit community has suffered the most after the exit of the Congress government in Delhi. They have been neglected by both the AAP-led Delhi government and the BJP-ruled municipal corporations, a prime example being sanitation workers having to go on strike five times just to get their wages,” Maken said.
 
 Slamming the city government, Maken said scholarships for SCs/STs/OBCs for college-going students had been reduced. “In 2014-15, scholarships were given to 13,898 candidates. These were brought down to 8,361 in 2015-16,” he said. Continuing in the same vein, Maken said as many as 7.03 lakh SC/ST/OBC students from Class I to Class XII got scholarships in 2013-14, but the numbers came down to 6.79 lakh in 2015-16. 
 
 “What good can one expect from a government that has reduced scholarships for Dalit students instead of increasing them?” he asked.
 
 Maken said pamphlets would be distributed during the march to “expose” both AAP and BJP. He also attacked the BJP-led municipal corporations for failing to release salaries to its employees on time. “Sanitation workers went on strike five times in two years. No new recruitments are being done whereas contractual workers are yet to be regularised. The three corporations have not only failed to keep the city clean but also development work has been stalled,” he said.
 
 Senior party members, meanwhile, claimed that they had so far received over 10,000 applications from aspirants for the municipal polls.
 
 
