GURUGRAM: In a bid to avoid a replay of last year’s   following the   in February, the state irrigation department has written to deputy commissioners of Gurgaon, Jhajjar and Sonepat, to boost security arrangement around the water channels and ensure uninterrupted water supply to Delhi-NCR.

  Having learnt lessons from the last year’s agitation, the irrigation department is not willing to take any risks this time. “We have requested deputy commissioners of Gurgaon, Sonepat and Jhajjar to make arrangements for security and safety of the water channels, in view of the  , which was renewed from Sunday,” said Shiv Singh, superintending engineer, irrigation department, Gurgaon. 
 
 He added that field officers from the department are also monitoring the water channels at various locations. “To deal with any untoward incident, we have also stored some water that can be used as a buffer for a few days,” said Singh.
 
 Last year, during the Jat quota stir, water supply in various parts of Delhi-NCR was disrupted for up to 10 days, as protesters damaged the   in Karnal and Khubru water head in Panipat, which supplies water from the Western Yamuna Canal to Kakroi. According to estimates, 200 cusecs of water in the Munak Canal, equal to two days’ supply, was wasted; while Gurgaon’s only water carriers — the   and the Gurgaon Water Supply (GWS) channel – ran dry.
 
 Kakroi in Sonepat, about 90km away from Gurgaon, supplies water from the Yamuna to Gurgaon and several parts of Delhi and Haryana.
 
 In its letter to the deputy commissioners, the irrigation department said: “In lieu of Aarakshan Andolan as anticipated in Haryana from January 29, you are requested to direct the police to give necessary protection for the channels, so that agitators will not be able to damage any government property and authorised water can reach to the tail of NCR channel (Huda water treatment plant at Chandu, Gurgaon) for drinking purpose.”
 
 Referring to the letter, Gurgaon deputy commissioner Hardeep Singh said, “Ground staff have already been directed to keep an eye on the water channel. We’re also conducting night patrols in sensitive areas.”
 
 
