MUMBAI: A day after the island city   sealed Churchgate’s  , which houses the  , the Bombay high court on Thursday reversed the move and questioned the state government on how such action could be taken. The building was attached by the collector on Wednesday to recover labour dues from  , erstwhile ground handlers at Mumbai airport.

 The court agreed with the lawyers for Eros and the trust which owns the building that the collector’s action was “high-handed and arbitrary”. “You have taken out viewers. Is it not an unmindful act?” the court said.
 
  Justices Shantanu Khemkar and Prakash Naik when their division bench was informed that a film’s screening was interrupted and people asked to leave. “Tomorrow, in a restaurant, you will not allow (people) to eat,” said Justice Khemkar. To that, advocate Nikhil Sakhardande, appearing for the theatre, said people at a restaurant on the premises were indeed asked to leave.
 
 The bench directed the collector “to open the seal which has been put on all the units occupied by the petitioner trust and tenants and occupants”.
 
 The court was hearing two petitions, one by the S C Cambata Trust, the landlord of Cambata Building, and the other by Eros Theatre and Restaurants Private Limited, a tenant. 
 
 Advocate Birendra Saraf, appearing for the trust, said that for alleged dues of Cambata Aviation, the premises of Cambata Building were sealed. “No opportunity of hearing was given. My occupants are losing business.” Justice Khemkar, addressing the government, said, “What if it was your office? Would it be sealed in this manner?”
 
 The trust’s petition said Cambata Aviation and the petitioner (trust) are separate entities and the petitioner has no connection with the firm’s dues (though labour minister Sambhaji Patil Nilangekar on Wednesday put the dues at Rs 100 crore, from the collector’s notice it appears the industrial court’s estimate is Rs 4.45 crore). It said the market value of the building is much higher than the alleged dues. It said the authorities targeted “45 innocent occupants who are tenants, sub-tenants or occupants”, including clinics, banks, ATMs, food joints, a cinema house and other commercial establishments. The petition said Eros and Galaxy Aviation (tenants who received notices) informed the authorities that Cambata Aviation is not the owner of the building, but they ignored facts.
 
 Earlier, Sakhardande, Eros’s advocate, argued that it had replied to a December 28 notice. “There are absolutely no dues of Cambata Aviation that can be recovered from me. Despite this, the theatre was sealed,” he said. To that, Justice Khemkar said, “If the dues are of Cambata Aviation, how can Eros (a tenant) be held responsible?”
 
 On the petitions, which will be heard further on February 8, the bench said, “Prima facie the submission seems to have some basis.”
 
 
