JAIPUR: Following in the footsteps of Prime Minister  , the most sought after minister of BJP government in Rajasthan, Vasudev   will be available 24/7 via a mobile app, which will be launched soon. Devnani holds the education and panchayati raj portfolios, which constitute about 2/3rd of the total government workforce. The app will cater to over 79,000 schools, 4 lakh government employees, 1.32 crore students and their parents. The app also has a feature to connect him to his voters in his constituency Ajmer North.

 The app has been developed by  , a government teacher who shot to fame after Prime Minister Modi quoted him in his address in Wembley in UK in 2015 for donating 52 educational mobile apps to the HRD ministry. 
 
 The app has put Devnani in the exclusive league of MLAs — chief minister   and Sawai Madhopur MLA Diya Kumari Singh —having this digital platform. The app will be officially launched by chief minister Vasundhara Raje during the present session of Vidhan Sabha. 
 
 The homepage has a feature ‘share you work’ asking the users to submit ideas. “A lot of planning has gone into making this app user-friendly and attractive at a same time. This app will stand out among others due to its fast-changing dynamics and quick response/delivery system,” said Khan, who is a maths teacher and has tutored himself in app making. The most important section of the app is contact. Here the all the stakeholders have been given different options — mail, Twitter, Facebook and contact numbers, to approach the minister by listing suggestions, advisories and complaints.
 
 “The central idea is to become accessible, providing quick solution to the people along with democratizing the information. Our department has been most progressive and adaptable to digitization,” said Devnani. 
 
 The minister is forming a backroom to handle stakeholders’ response. The most dynamic feature is the press release section for media and for teachers. This will be updated daily. The achievement section enumerates in detail the role of the minister in shaping the Central government’s New Education Draft, No Detention Policy, NCERT, etc.
 
 Known for his bold decisions from renaming the Akbar Fort as Ajmer Fort to dropping the suffix ‘great’ from Akbar in the textbooks and recently pressing for the narrative that Maharana Pratap’s forces defeated Akbar in the battle of Haldighati, the minister is emerging as a poster boy for BJP in the state.
 
