GANDHINAGAR: After a delay of more than three years, the much awaited Ro-Ro (roll-on, roll-off) ferry connecting Ghogha in Saurashtra with Dahej in South Gujarat is expected to begin operations in a couple of months. With construction almost over at Ghogha, trial runs will begin later this month, said sources. 

 This Rs 615-crore project will likely be inaugurated by PM Narendra Modi during his next visit to Gujarat. The cost of the project escalated to almost double the initial projected cost.   (GMB) is in the last phase of the project.
 
 This will be South Asia’s first world-class  . The project will link South Gujarat and Saurashtra and by allowing vehicles with passengers aboard, will save travel time, fuel and will clear congested roads. 
 
 World-class terminals are being built at Ghogha near Bhavnagar and Dahej near Bharuch. The impact will be reducing the distance between the two points to 30km (by sea) from the present 350km (by road).
 
 Once complete, the service will be extended to other locations across the   and  . There are also ambitious plans to connect the state to Mumbai and other southern states by this link.
 
 Ajay Bhadoo, chief executive officer(CEO) of GMB said: “All the three important components of the project—terminal construction, dredging and ferry cum terminal operations—are in the final phase of development. We could have started the project a few days ago, it was delayed for technical checking. We are hopeful that we will be formally start the service soon from May or mid-June at the latest. A trial run is expected to begin shortly.”
 
 About the possibility of PM Narendra Modi inaugurating the service, said, “We are hopeful about it.”
 
 On the terminal construction side, 84% is complete despite the fact that the   has the world’s second highest tidal range and extreme sea conditions. 
 
 GMB has launched one of the two pontoons at Ghogha. The pontoon, which is a floating structure will facilitate traffic and passenger movement to and from the ferry vessel. The linkspan, which connects the pontoon and jetty, at 96m is considered to the world’s longest linkspan bridge. This structure is almost complete too.
 
