For someone with limited exposure to the inner lives of men, American author 
  makes quite a statement with a gay man as protagonist in her second novel ‘A Little Life’. A harrowing tale of four men in New York who try to stick together through thick and thin, it is a refreshing look at modern-day friendships. The author of the book which was the shortlisted for the Man Booker prize in 2015 speaks to 
 about love, friendship, racial integration, identity, and what it means to be happy in the 21st century.

 
 
 A privileged life does not necessarily translate to happiness. I think everyone has a little bit of darkness in them. I wanted to write about a character who had a certain short-coming and never got better. I wanted to see what suspense and tension could be created in a story where redemption never gets fulfilled.
 
 
 
 I wanted to explore the changing nature of friendships over time. Decades ago, a friend was someone to whom you put the best foot forward. But over time, friendships have become more intimate. More people are choosing to remain single and in this setting, friendships become an important source of companionship. This can be seen in any urban setting world over. In provincial towns, marriage and children are still for the most part a foregone conclusion.
 
 
 
 I went to an all-female university and then I entered an industry dominated by women..... publishing. So from the time I was 17 to about 25 years I had very little exposure to men. I began observing them closely, almost like an anthropologist.
 
 
 
 If these friends were women, it would have been a very different book. It's texture, tone and emotionality would have been entirely different. Woman can really have conversations about anything. There is nothing a woman can talk about that would jeopardise her womanhood. However, there is a great deal that men are not given permission to talk about. I wanted to write about characters who are limited by society in some way.
 
 
 
 I don't think Jude is looking for happiness. He is looking for security and normalcy. These senses come to you when you are young. If you cannot feel a sense of security as a child, you will never be able to attain it as an adult. Jude may have pursued happiness if he found security. But happiness in itself is very abstract and often we get lost in pursuing it. We all look for it and yet no one knows what it really is. And in some cases, the endless pursuit may even ruin people.
 
 
 
 This was intentional. I wanted to make this book nothing more than the emotional lives of the characters. If I had pegged the story to a certain time in history it would have taken away the intimacy the reader had with the characters. Also, the book is less about New York and more about the qualities of people who move to the big city. It is the ambitious, driven and materialistic dreamers who aspire to make it there.
 
 
 
 Integration really depends on the social circles you move in. In some circles where your standing in Manhattan society is the binding factor, gender, race and ethnicity matter less. It is only in these circles that integration is fluid. So yes, Indians moving in these circles are well assimilated.
 
 
 
 Far from it. As I said, assimilation happens in many cities but only in specific social circles where money, success and position matter more than sexuality and ethnicity.
 
 
 
 What I love about Indian authors is how they have taken colonial English and made it there own....a vibrant language with eclectic flavours and rhythms. My favourite Indian authors are Neil Mukherjee, Vikram Chandra and Naipaul....to name only a few.
 
