JAIPUR: In yet another incident of robbery in broad daylight, two unidentified youths looted Rs 4 lakh in cash and jewellery from an elderly couple at knife point on Tuesday evening at their   house. The duo introduced themselves as prospective tenants seeking a rented accommodation in the house. They tied the elderly couple to a chair and asked their granddaughter to hand over keys of safe boxes and closets. 

 The victims — KC Garg (76) and his wife Rama Garg (75) — were found gagged and tied to their dining chairs, whereas their 17-year-old granddaughter was left terrorised as the culprits put a knife on her throat and asked her to hand over the keys of closets and safe boxes.
 
 “Following the incident, KC Garg and his family members were in deep shock. They called us for help and we informed the police immediately,” said Mahaveer Prasad Sharma, a neighbour.
 
 Police said the duo had been visiting the victim’s house for last three days and had come on Tuesday to ‘fix the deal, finally’.
 
 “KC Garg lives at his 49-B house with his son Rajeev, an architect. The family had hung a ‘To-let’ board outside their main door. The couple was alone with their two granddaughters when the incident took place,” a police official told TOI.
 
 The incident left a trail of fear and dread in the area. Senior officials, including Prafulla Kumar, additional commissioner of police (first) also reached the spot and said criminals would soon be nabbed. 
 
 “The culprits seem to be first timers as it was their third visit. They knew about the house, number of rooms in it and location of safe boxes. They had been visiting the house on pretext of finalising a deal with the landlord,” Kumar told TOI.
 
 The duo parked their bike outside the house, rang the doorbell and introduced themselves as tenants who had come to finalise the deal. The couple was having evening tea at that time.
 
 “They drew out tapes, ropes and a long sharped-edged knife. They threatened the couple, asking them to keep quiet or be ready to endure pain,” an official said.
 
 Special teams of Jaipur crime branch and Vaishali Nagar police station reached the spot and sought minute details of the incident. “Even though the duo had visited the house twice before executing their plan, they never revealed their names. They said they worked in a mobile company in the city and were seeking a family room,” the police said.
 
 Based on the   of the road, Jaipur police is trying to ascertain identity of the criminals. Suspects are being quizzed by cops.
 
