THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The allegations of question paper leak in the Plus One geography examination have turned to be partially true. An official probe has confirmed that five of the questions were repeated from the model question paper prepared by a pro-CPM teachers' organization. 

 According to sources, higher secondary education director M  , who probed into the allegations, has come to the conclusion that the teacher who prepared the final question paper for the examination and the   (KSTA) that prepared a model question paper took the same five questions from the question bank available in the directorate's website.
 
 There were allegations that questions for 43 marks were the one and same in the final geography question paper given to students in the final examination and the model question paper prepared by the teacher's organisation. The report did not recommend action against anybody in connection with the preparation of the question paper, it has been learned.
 
 Based on a report that found a higher secondary teacher (G Sujithkumar) and examination board chairman (K G Vasu) responsible for the repetition of several questions in SSLC mathematics examination, education minister   had suspended the higher secondary teacher from service. Since the board chairman has already retired from service, no departmental action could be taken against him. However, there would be stringent action, including police case against the two after the general education secretary Usha Titus submits her final report on March 30.
 
 According to sources, the higher secondary director is likely to prepare a detailed recommendation to the state government on the steps to be taken for ensuring secrecy of higher secondary question papers. "The recommendations under consideration include keeping away teachers organisations in the preparation of model question papers. However, the recommendations would be finalised after holding more consultations," sources said.
 
 Meanwhile, allegations of lapses in preparing Plus Two question papers were raised on Tuesday as well. It was alleged that nine questions for the Plus Two journalism examination were from Plus One syllabus. Three questions were out of syllabus. In total, twelve questions for 25 marks posed hard time for students.
 
 Opposition leader   has demanded that a judicial inquiry be immediately ordered into the lapses in setting the question papers and the leakage of questions papers of SSLC, Plus-one and Plus-two examinations.
 
 Chennithala demanded here on Tuesday that education minister C Raveendranath should immediately resign as the grave lapses have hit the careers of 13 lakh students, which has never happened in the history of the state before. He alleged that the government, instead of following the standard procedure of seeking teachers through SCERT for setting the question papers, have entrusted the job to the Kerala State Teachers' Association, an organisation affiliated to the CPM. 
 
 "The education minister knows nothing about what is happening in his department. He is busy in teaching the students, whereas the matters in the education department are controlled by the KSTA," Chennithala said.
 
 He said he has documents to prove that not only mathematics, but question papers for geography, hindi and journalism courses had serious mistakes or had questions that were out of syllabus. While the Hindi question paper for the SSLC examination had nine serious mistakes, the question paper for geography examination for Plus-one course had questions worth 43 marks which were outside the syllabus. The journalism paper had 14 questions out of 29 which were not from the syllabus, he said. Chennithala added that the opposition was not approaching the court considering that it may affect the future of the students.
 
