Faiqa Mansab’s promising debut 
  is a mesmerizing tale of three souls in search of love, freedom, and identity. Mansab’s book brings to light a fresh brilliance from Pakistan, with a storytelling so sophisticated, it exudes radiance. The novel, set in  , chronicles the city, its repressed femininity looking for a louder voice, and its aspirations in need of a jovial push.

 
  tells the story of Nida, Sasha, and Bhanggi, all caught between the tumultuous journey of life in their own way, with a singular overarching desire to be loved and to be free. The intelligent and lonely Nida, married to an affluent political family, longs to break free from the obligation to unconditionally love her husband even though she fears to admit it. Sasha, the beautiful feminist, is a self-proclaimed modern woman, with a marriage on the verge of wreckage, and a mind too enchained to believe that exploring her sexuality is the only way to express her freedom. Then there is Bhanggi, a eunuch who opines that ‘his’ misfortune to learn the Quran has imbibed within him unrealistic expectations from society and from the universe, whereas he knows that the world will always consider him filth, an anomaly of nature, and as a result, he seeks refuge in Allah. Fate brings the three of them together at a Dargah, where Nida and Sasha become confidantes, and Bhanggi finds solace as a passive onlooker, sitting under a tree, observing Nida.
 
 Faiqa Mansab’s narrative excellence can be measured out in her language, and the book offers a heart-wrenching tale of forbidden love from a multitude of yearnings expressed through the mind, body, and spirit. A must read, 
  easily places Mansab among the forerunners of Pakistani English literature.
 
 
 
 
 
  writes, “In her bold, debut novel, Faiqa has become successful in presenting a powerful yet devastating story that has plot-lines which would normally be discussed in hushed whispers.”
 
 
  writes that Mansab’s book “dares to tell a story none would, at least the way Mansab does, with sensitivity.”
 
 
