KOLKATA: Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals, Kolkata, has introduced scarless surgeries in the management of thyroid cancers. The procedure, called   (TET), is being undertaken by Dr Shantanu Panja, ENT and Head & Neck onco-surgeon and his team.
 
 The thyroid gland plays a key role in the maintenance of vital hormonal balance in the body. A lump on the thyroid, accompanied by a normal hormonal profile, when detected, is therefore a source of concern, and may have to be examined to rule out malignancy. In cases where surgery is advised, existing methods indicate an open surgery for a partial or complete excision of the gland – resulting in significant blood loss, trauma, and permanent and distinct scarring.
 
 TET that involves an approach through the mouth by the use of laparoscopic endoscopes and other instruments, scores over the traditional methods. on number of counts. An opening is created between the lower lip and gum to pass the instruments, and the thyroid gland is reached by going beneath the skin with air insufflation. The gland is then dissected and removed through the mouth without any external cut, precluding the blood loss, trauma and scarring associated with the open surgical methods.
 
 “Surgery for thyroid cancer needs to be meticulous and requires considerable experience and expertise. We need to ensure preservation of the key nerves responsible for voice production, and the parathyroid glands responsible for calcium metabolism in the body. With this new technique, we can achieve these vital results, enhance the overall outcome, and ensure the best cosmetic outcome for patient,” said Dr Panja.
 
 “Women face higher risk from thyroid cancer with the, incidence registering an upward trend in the recent times. What makes it an even greater challenge is the fact that the disease, whose aggressiveness increases with age, often goes undetected until it is too late. Even in cases where the diseased gland is excised in time, the patient is destined to carry the visible scar of the procedure for a long time, affecting their overall quality of life. As the healthcare leaders of the region, we are therefore happy to introduce this new technique which significantly improves the outcomes for all patient,.” said Dr Rupali Basu, president and CEO (eastern region) Apollo Hospitals Group India.
 
 
