AHMEDABAD:   in the state has registered a 37% growth in comparison to usual sowing in the state. The sowing of summer crop, which has ended, shows onions have been sown over an area of 14,300 hectares. Usually sowing of onion is carried out over 10,300 hectares in the state.

 Officials said that not only had more onion been sown than usual, but that 31% more onions have been sown compared to last year.
 
  “Farmers usually decide on sowing of a crop looking at availability of water and prices fetched by the crop last year,” said an   official.
 
 Ghanshyam Patel, a farmer of Mahuva, said that the summer onion crop fetches better prices than that of other seasons. While one bigha land sown with onions produces about 200 metric tonnes of the crop, Patel said costs of cultivation per bigha was about Rs 30,000. A bigha’s yield can fetch anywhere between Rs 60,000 and Rs 70,000 in summer, Patel added.
 
 Karanbhai Kashibhai, a resident of Mahuva, said, “Last year, onions fetched prices between Rs 20 to Rs 30 per kg, which was a good price. So this year, I have decided to go in for onion farming.” He said that in Mahuva, a majority of the farmers have gone in for onion farming, and the area is considered the onion belt of  .
 
 According data available of the 14,300 hectares cultivated for onions, 11,700 hectares were in   alone. In the past couple of years, retail prices of onions have touched Rs 100 per kg many times. The gap between wholesale and retail prices is huge, and at a time when the wholesale rates of onions were between Rs 3 and Rs 6.50 per kg, the vegetable retailed at Rs 25 per kg or higher in city areas like Satellite and Navrangpura.
 
 The overall sowing area for summer crops in the state is usually 9.83 lakh hectares. However, this year there has been a decline in overall sowing of summer crops and only 84% of usual area, or 8.27 lakh hectares have been cultivated. Agriculture officials, however, maintained that the scenario was better than last year, and 68,800 more hectares have been cultivated for summer crops.
 
 Officials said sowing and cultivation was poor last year as the government had to reserve water for drinking purposes and didn’t release irrigation water for summer crops.
 
