BENGALURU: Om was born in October 2009 without any complications. However, two years later, the boy's parents and playschool teachers noticed that he preferred to play alone, was not focusing and didn't like to be part of the rhymes circle.

 The child's speech wasn't developing and he wouldn't cry. Doctors, however, said the child was fine and would catch up soon. In fact, his pediatrician was a senior doctor from a superspecialty hospital in the city. Eight months later, as suggested by a special educator, the boy's parents took him to a psychiatrist. That is when little Om was diagnosed with   Spectrum Disorder (ASD), a complex developmental disability. The signs typically appear during early childhood and affect a person's ability to communicate and interact with others.
 
 Om, now seven, is among many children who are 
  after much delay. This is primarily due to lack of orientation and training among   students about the developmental disorder. While autism finds only a passing mention in MBBS course, it's only an introduction in MD pediatrics.
 
 “If all the pediatricians we visited were more aware and alert, we could have diagnosed his problem 8 months earlier and could have immediately put him on therapy . Earlier the therapy begins, greater the chances of improvement,“ said Geetha V M, Om's mother.
 
 “Brain development is maximum in the first three years of life, and that's when the therapies have an impact on a child with autism. Early intervention through communication and speech therapy could even help a child overcome autism,“ says pediatrician and autism specialist Dr Shilpa Rao. Dr Rao is herself a mother of a 17-year-old boy who has almost recovered from autism. If a child doesn't pick up speech, fails to socialize, and doesn't imitate or is lacking in efforts to communicate, then parents must inform the pediatrician about the child's behaviour.
 
 Dr Karunakara B P, former president of Indian Academy of Pediatrics, Karnataka chapter, says the need of the hour is to train pediatricians and general practitioners on telltale signs of autism. “Unless we diagnose early, a child with autism doesn't get better,“ he says.
 
 
 
 
 According to Dr  , autism specialist and director of   and Disabilities, cases of autism are only increasing. “I get to see 3-4 new cases a day. Though no survey has been done, we can say that one in every 125 children suffers from autism. Not tracking mental milestones is a major lacuna. Pediatricians should not just ask about a child's sitting, standing and walking activities, but also check if the kid smiles, likes to mingle and expresses emotions,“ she says.
 
 “Saying rhymes, numbers and alphabets isn't speech. A child has to express hisher emotions through language. Parents' doubts must be addressed by pediatricians who also need to educate themselves,“ adds Dr Nandidi.
 
