The traffic at   on Sunday morning saw a few more cars than usual, but for a change, not many were seen complaining. For these were some classic and vintage cars, which were a part of the 7th edition of 21 Gun Salute International   and Concours Show. The rally saw over a hundred cars drive from India Gate to the   in  . The rally was flagged off from India Gate by the Indian Army chief, General Bipin Rawat. With military punctuality, the army chief reached India Gate sharp at 9am and spent almost an hour looking at the cars and interacting with their owners. 

  
  Five-year-old Maahir, the youngest 'owner' in the field, with General Bipin Rawat (extreme right) at the flag-off (BCCL)
 
 He said, "I think all the cars have been excellently maintained and the heritage of vintage and classic cars is being kept alive because of the dedication of the owners and those who work to maintain these beauties. Besides the heritage, this event will also go a long way in promoting motor tourism in this country." General Rawat was also delighted on seeing a 1948 Land Rover that once belonged to Field Marshall Sam Manekshaw. Suman Billa, joint secretary, Ministry of Tourism, was also present at the flag-off.
 
  
  (BCCL)
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  Over a hundred vintage cars drove from India Gate to Greater Noida as part of the 7th edition of   and Concours Show
 
 
 
  For many, it was their first time driving on the   or at the Buddh International Circuit. Yasser Ibrahim from Kanpur was driving his 1920   Silver Ghost for the first time on a race track. "This is a 7000cc engine car so despite its regal appearance, it packs great power. I'm hoping to find out how fast it can go. This is a great contrast – vintage cars on an F1 track," he said. Zubin Songadwala, who works in the hospitality sector in Delhi, was behind the wheel of his 1971 Ford Mustang. He said, "This is the first time I have driven the car to this great a distance. The experience of driving on the Expressway in this machine was fabulous." But for some, it was like a second homecoming. Shomenath Roy Chowdhury, owner of a green 1939 Bentley, recounted his first experience of driving on the F1 track. He told us, "I led the ceremonial lap of honour during the first F1 race on this track back in 2011. So this was my second time on the track."
 
 
  
  For many vintage car owners, it was their first time driving on the Yamuna Expressway or at the Buddh International Circuit (BCCL)
 
 
 
