CHENNAI: Almost a year after an AN-32 aircraft of the   (IAF) disappeared mid-air claiming the lives of 29 people, the wife of a city-based   (ICG) sailor is running from pillar to post to obtain his   from the   The Port Blair bound transport plane went missing over the Bay of Bengal minutes after it took off from the IAF station at Tambaram on July 22 last year.

 Thirty-eight-year-old Muthu Krishnan, who was in the rank of Uttam Navik in the ICG, was on board the ill-fated aircraft. "Although the ICG had issued a death certificate for my husband, corporation officials are refusing to issue one without details such as the place of his death. They are citing rules that it cannot be issued for missing persons until a period of time has elapsed,"  's wife   told TOI.
 
 An extensive search and   by the defence ministry could not trace the missing aircraft. Following this, the IAF and ICG sent official communications to the families of defence personnel on board the plane, saying that they were presumed to have died on the day the aircraft went missing. Jeya Sumithra, who resides at the CPWD Quarters at K K Nagar, received a death certificate from the ICG dated November 21, 2016.
 
 Her ordeal began when she attempted to register for a smart card to replace the paper-based family card. A mother of two kids including a special child, she made the rounds of various government offices such as the taluk office, civil supplies department and Greater Chennai Corporation. "When I submitted the ICG's death certificate, officials at the fair price shop refused to accept it and demanded a death certificate signed in green ink from the local authority.
 
  Subsequently, I approached the civic body's zonal office at Kodambakkam for a death certificate in May this year. But I was asked to wait for seven years because rules do not permit issuing a death certificate for missing persons for the specific period," she said. 
 
 Jeya Sumithra questioned why bureaucrats are passing the buck when the death of her husband has been declared by defence authorities. When contacted, a Greater Chennai Corporation official said that the seven-year period was mandatory as per the law.
 
 Jeya Sumithra faced similar trouble in availing the legal heir certificate from the tahsildar's office at Mambalam, but officials there have assured her that they would issue it at the earliest.
 
 Meanwhile, family members of Muthu Krishnan said while the ICG has offered a temporary job for Jeya Sumithra, the state government must consider her for some vacancy as a courtesy. "We have also filed a petition with the state government over this," Jeya Sumithra said. Muthu Krishnan belonged to Chembur village near Alwarthirunagari in Thoothukudi district.
 
