TRICHY: Not a single child from   in   has joined   at the entry level this year. 

 This was unlike the previous years when most parents made a beeline for private schools known for their English teaching and various other facilities. Instead, parents of 14 children chose the panchayat union middle school in their village to enrol them. 
 
 The reason: the school underwent drastic changes in less than a year by augmenting its basic infrastructure. Computer labs, efficient English coaching, extra-curricular activities have all made it as good as any private school. What brought in such a dramatic change were the dedicated efforts of a teacher which reversed the declining trend in admissions and transformed the school into a sought-after one.
 
 S Elavalagan, a BT English teacher who joined the school in August last year saw that parents were ready to send their children to a private school located 10 kms away from home. 
 
 While they were ready to despatch them on school buses they did not want to send them to the panchayat union school in their backyard. It was the urge to see their children speak fluent English and learn computer that forced even poor parents to embrace private schools. 
 
 In the next few months, Elavalagan spent Rs 1.68 lakh from his pocket to get 10 computers. Obtaining a projector from the school education department, he introduced smart class rooms. 
 
 “Before asking anyone for help or sponsorship, I decided to first spend on my own for the school. This prompted many to extend a helping hand,” Elavalagan told TOI. Now the panchayat union school will match any private school in terms of basic infrastructure. 
 
 Earlier, children of the school rarely participated in competitions on their own. Not any more. For instance, S Renuka Devi, a student of class 8, won the first prize in Techno Club competition conducted among the students of Perambalur and Ariyalur districts. Organized by   (SSA) the competition was for students on integration and usage of technology.
 
 Parents are now seeing hope in Elavalagan and the panchayat union school. A farmer by occupation, N Marimuthu said that Elavalagan came to them and promised to change the school. 
 
 Not only did he invest money but also made us see the change for ourselves. Marimuthu has now decided to get three of his children admitted to the union school after pulling them out of private schools. “I was advised by many to let my daughter alone study in private school but I rejected the idea,” he said.
 
 Only three out of a total of 160 children till the middle school level go to private schools from the village while the rest are in the panchayat union middle school. 
 
 The village with 403 families has a total of 160 children in the primary and middle school levels. Among them only three are enrolled in private schools. “They are also expected to join our school in the upcoming days,” said Elavalagan. 
 
 “Winning the confidence of parents plays a key role in sustaining and strengthening the school in terms of student’s strength,” said Perambalur CEO T Arulmozhi Devi. In the case of Kothavasal panchayat union school, the effort of the HM in-charged is laudable, she said.
 
 
