Ponda/Panaji: Ponda’s heritage is synonymous with its temples, 16th century Safa Masjid and Mardangad Fort ruins, but lesser known historic vestiges are being obliterated, as heritage lovers found out after the destruction of a fort wall in Nagzar.

 A part of the old fort wall of the Adil Shah era in Nagzar, Curti, on the town’s border was excavated and destroyed by water resources department (WRD) for construction of a drain. 
 
 “Nearly 100m of the wall, barely a couple of metres high on a slope, partly concealed in mud and vegetation, was dug out for construction of a retaining wall on the drain,” Abhit Shirodkar of Aprant Asmita, Ponda, said.
 
 Dating back to the Adilshahi era, the archaeological remains of Ponda’s unexplored past still existed in some parts of the town, but were more prominent at Nagzar. 
 
 The state’s fastest growing town, which forms the nucleus of a taluka popularly known as ‘Antruz Mahal’, known for its rich and secular cultural heritage is witnessing rapid growth. The fort wall, its bastion and moat have been slowly eroded by encroaching slums and squalor. Mounds of garbage in drains have shocked citizens.
 
 The razing of the historic remains of the 600-year-old fortification was noticed by Class V student Anva Naik, who informed her parents. 
 
 Heritage lovers regret that no maintenance was carried out nor was the site notified as a heritage site. Barely five years ago, the fort wall spanned more than half a km. “It was also very strong and higher than three metres, but crumbled gradually,” Shirodkar said.
 
 While records say that some material from this old fort was used to build the Mardangad Fort atop the hill in the east, the remains still looked majestic, though the illegal growth of slums in Cottvada caused major damage. 
 
 “The fort remains can be seen along the storm water drain and heritage lovers will surely make out the concretized additions over the old remains,” a heritage lover said.
 
 Heritage lovers are keen to salvage whatever is untouched. Property owner Damodar Naik is keen about its preservation. “The moat and the fort bastion have to be saved,” said Prajal Sakhardande, president of the Goa Heritage Action Group (GHAG).
 
 Durgadas Kamat, a local resident and personal secretary to water resources minister, Vinod Palyekar, said, “We have taken up the matter with WRD officials to preserve the remains.” 
 
 
