MANGALURU:   (DCRE) that is currently probing four cases of false   in Western Range of Karnataka State Police has sought information from members of SC/ST community about any such instance they may come across. Two cases pertain to people misusing ST tag given to  , and one case each about Mogera and   respectively, C B Vedamurthy, SP, CRE cell, said.

 Noting that misuse of   will deny genuine beneficiaries from enjoying what is legally due to them, Vedamurthy informed the monthly SC/ST meet conducted by Mangaluru City Police that DCRE takes such instances very seriously. The ADGP (DCRE) monitors such cases and findings of probe conducted by CRE cell at the range level vetted by the ADGP and passed on to DCs’ concerned. This is turn is placed before district caste verification committee (DCVC).
 
 Vedamurthy said the DCVC that also has the district social welfare officer as member takes a call on the probe that CRE cell conducts and if convinced of the report, in turn directs the tahshildars to cancel the caste certificate so issued. The CRE cell is also empowered to register an FIR in such cases and proceed against persons who misuse the caste certificate, he said, urging members of the SC/ST community to be vigilant and help the cell crack down on such instances.
 
 The SP also advised investigating officers probing cases of SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act to apply the correct sections while registering the FIR. This helps both CRE cell and social welfare department to disburse compensation to the victims under the Act without any delay. Hitherto, section 3 (1) of the Act had sub-sections 1 to13. This has been changed to sections a to z, he said, adding invoking the right section will help the department expedite the claims process.
 
 Compensation ranges from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 8.25 lakh, SP said, adding compensation is Rs 5 lakh in case of murder or sexual assault and Rs 8.25 lakh in case of gang rape. Victim is entitled to 25% compensation at FIR stage, 50% on charge sheet and rest on conviction in general cases. In case of gang rape, this is 50% at FIR stage and rest equally during charge sheet and conviction. The DCRE also takes action to recover compensation amount if the case is found to be false.
 
