MEERUT: As you cross Lala Lajpat Rai Medical College and enter the rural outskirts of Meerut, anyone at any chai stall will be able to direct you to the house of Dr   in Dattawali village. At 91 years of age, Aazad is among the oldest candidates for the assembly elections and one of the oldest ever in the country. He is all set to file his nomination papers on Monday.
 
  “I will contest from Meerut South constituency this time around. My supporters will be paying the amount of the deposit,” Aazad, a doctor by profession, claimed proudly, a thick shawl draped loosely over his wiry frame to protect his body from the winter chill.
  
  His family members were apparently unaware that Aazad was going to contest this time as well, but he was unfazed. “I have contested 11 times before, this is not new for me,” he said, bringing out nomination papers from a bag.
  
  The nonagenarian is indeed a veteran when it comes to the electoral arena, having contested eight times for the  , twice for the   and once to be the President of India. “Yes, I also wanted to be President. But I didn’t win. See, service of the people is what I am in this for. That is all that matters to me,” said Aazad.
  
  He was 21 when India gained Independence. “I was a student of Urdu. I was also sent to jail by the British during those days,” Aazad said.
  
  In 1962, Aazad first contested elections from the   seat. Having seen the politics of India evolve over the years, he feels that a lot has changed. “That innocence and attitude for selfless service is gone. Now all political parties, without exception, are filled with corrupt people and criminals,” he said.
  
  Aazad gets up at 6 am every day and leaves home at 7.30 to treat patients, free of charge, in nearby villages.
  
  The election in Meerut South constituency is set to be contested by heavyweights like   of the BSP, Aadil Choudhary of the SP and Somendra Tomar of the BJP. Azaad, though, is optimistic. “Why can’t I win? This is politics and nobody can understand the mood of the people,” he said.
  
  “Education and health care should be made free. That is my poll issue. I want to make education up to graduation and healthcare free for all. These are the two most important cornerstones of a civilised society,” said Aazad.
