AHMEDABAD: Faced with growing unrest among a section of workers at its car plant in Sanand,   Ltd’s management has agreed to negotiate with workers about their demands, which include wage revision, higher bonus and modification in standing order pertaining to the plant.

 This was decided during a meeting between the company and workers’ representatives at labour commissioner’s office in Ahmedabad on Wednesday. 
 
 “The management has agreed to start negotiations with the workers for settlement of their demands. Top officials from the company’s Mumbai office will also meet the workers at the plant on March 17,” said M S Patel, deputy  ,  .
 
 Labour department has kept the next meeting on March 29. “The management today agreed to talk over settlement of our long pending demands. Apart from the next meeting scheduled at labour commissioner’s office in Ahmedabad, the company will also hold separate meetings at the plant to negotiate the demands raised by the workers,” said Hitesh Rabari, president,  , a workers union at the plant.
 
 “Earlier, such meetings at the plant ceased to be held following a deadlock in negotiation,” Rabari said.
 
 Agitating workers had on March 2 approached the labour department seeking its intervention to resolve the matter. The labour commissionerate had given the company time till March 15 to submit its response.
 
 “Tata Motors attended today’s conciliation meeting called by the conciliation officer as agreed in the previous meeting with labour authorities on March 2, 2017 and submitted its response on the matter,” the company stated in an official communique.
 
 “In our response we have reiterated our openness to discuss a reasonable charter of demands, amicably and in a fair manner with the union. We are hopeful that the union would resume discussions with the company with the same positive spirit to arrive at mutually beneficial grounds,” the company said. “We are hopeful that the issues will be resolved soon,” added M S Patel. 
 
 Earlier this month, some 200-odd workers at Tata Motors’ Sanand manufacturing facility had boycotted company transport to return home to mark their protest against the management for it not paying any heed to their demands.
 
