PATNA: Bihar Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan ( ) has announced Rs50,000 grants each to 65 government schools in Patna district to upgrade their laboratories and libraries. The grant will be transferred to the schools under Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan (RMSA) on Monday.

 District programme officer (DPO) Ashok Kumar has instructed the block development officers (BDOs) to monitor the proper utilization of the grants and also check whether the schools are making the use of laboratories and libraries. “Schools can buy the required equipment and necessary items to upgrade their respective laboratory and library,” he said on Sunday.
 
 The other secondary and senior secondary schools would also get the grants by August. On the direction of education department, the DPO organized a meeting with the headmasters of 192 government schools, including project schools, minority schools, secondary and senior secondary schools in Patna district.
 
 The meet was organized under the short-term action plan (three months) of the state government. “The headmasters were asked to give the report of the curriculum and the syllabus of their respective schools. We asked them to follow the syllabus plan prepared by the education department and complete it on time. From now on, we will organize such a meet twice a month to get the report from the school principals,” said Ashok.
 
 The DPO also asked the headmasters to rope in young tutors (MTech, BTech, BEd and MEd) and retired teachers on contract if they do not have adequate number of teachers and pay them from their school’s development fund.
 
 “The DPOs were also asked to conduct the meet and discuss the problems faced by their schools. All the subject teachers should prepare the report on daily basis and planned out the class a day in advance. The principal should also make sure that teachers engage the classes on regular basis and if they take a leave without any notice and application, their salaries must be deducted. The attendance of the students should also be marked,” Ashok said.
 
 The action plans were prepared by the state government after 65% students failed in the intermediate examination conducted by the Bihar School Examination Board this year.
 
 
