AURANGABAD: A section of aspirants has sought a cap on expenses related to the polls for teachers’ constituencies, which do not have any upper limit fixed for expenditure to be incurred by candidates unlike most of the other elections.

 Stating that the absence of a ceiling on the expenses does not ensure level-playing field, aspirants have sought a change to bring in desired reform to this effect.
 
 Yunus Patel, who has been fighting Marathwada teachers’ constituency polls under the banner of  , said limitless poll expenditure raises doubts over the campaign process.
 
 “The candidates from established parties can splurge huge amount of money during the campaign to reach out to voters and can even influence them. No bar on poll expenditure is serious drawback in teachers’ constituency polls, that needs to be eliminated,” he said. 
 
 Ajmal Khan, national vice president of socialist movement  , who had earlier filed the nomination for Marathwada teachers’ constituency polls but withdrew it, said a cap on expenditure would ensure level playing field for all candidates.
 
 “It makes no sense to exclude teachers constituency polls from expenditure limits as this election too has been encroached by political parties. Putting certain limit on expenditure for polls that are related to education is must. The election authorities should review the rules,” he said.
 
 Candidates from non-political background also raised objection to the manner in which a section of political representatives filed nomination amidst vehicle and vehicle rallies. 
 
 It may be noted that the limit of election expenditure for incurred by a candidate for general elections and assembly constituencies is Rs 70 lakh and Rs 28 lakh in all states, except a few. Different expenditure limits also exist for polls to local self-governing bodies as the same are being decided in the light of election rules considering number of voters and inflation among other factors.
 
 Rajesh Hiwale, spokesperson of the state-level association of primary teachers associated with Zilla Parishad-run schools, said the absence of any restriction on the expenses leaves scope for foul play during elections. “The old saying might is right could prove true if no ceiling limit is fixed on expenditure. It is necessary to evolve certain limits,” he said.
 
 Considering the vast geographical spread of the teachers constituencies, aspirants also said that expenditure upto Rs 25 lakh may be allowed. Vikram Kale of NCP and BJP sponsored Satish Patki could not be reached for their comments. 
 
 When contacted, Mahendra Harpalkar, deputy divisional commissioner for   division, said the   (ECI) was the competent authority to take any call on putting ceiling limit for poll expenditure for teachers constituency polls. The ECI authorities could not be reached for their comments. 
 
 Over 20 candidates are in the fray for February 3 polls for Marathwada teachers’ constituency. As per the official data, Aurangabad has maximum voters (10,789) for Marathwada teachers constituency polls, followed by Latur (10,120) and Beed (8,756). Other districts, namely Nanded (8,545), Osmanabad (5,482), Jalna (4,465), Parbhani (4,374) and Hingoli (2,546) also have sizeable number of voters. 
 
