PATNA:   are laughing all the way to the bank with women — young and not-so-young alike — making a beeline for getting hands adorned with   in the month of Shrawan that begin this Monday.

 In the city’s business hub   alone, 50-odd   artists eke out a living by using their  . To add to their services, they possess net-activated smartphones through which they log on to various websites containing attractive mehndi designs and offer them to customers as options to choose from.
 
 “Our workload ups manifold during the month of Shrawan every year... I have to steal time even to go to the washroom... I also avoid taking calls on my phone unless it’s an urgent one from home,” one such artist said, preferring anonymity.
 
 According to him, every artist in Maurya Lok normally earns anything between Rs 8,000 and 10,000 every month, which goes up to Rs 15,000 to 18,000 in the month of Shrawan.
 
 That most of these artists are young boys is not a deterrent to the women aspiring to get a mehndi applied on their hands. The women can also bee seen sitting patiently for 20 to 30 minutes, depending on the intricacy of the work, in the open as the mehndi artists, unlike beauticians, do not offer their services in airconditioned parlours.
 
 Santosh Kumar, who has been into the profession for the last one decade, told TOI he keeps self updated with latest designs through the internet. “It’s the time of the year when we are preoccupied from morning till late in the night. The season of Lord Shiva is a blessing for us,” said Santosh who commutes from Bihta every day to offer his services at Maurya Lok.
 
 The artist’s fee ranges anything from Rs 50 to Rs 300 per design, depending on the volume of the design work. “Apparently because of the exposure to the internet, clients these days make varied demands whereas earlier they would ask for design albums from us. Many women come with the design of their choice saved in their cellphones,” said Kuldeep Mandal, another mehndi artist who offers his services at Maurya Lok.
 
 Fee whatsoever is not an issue for these women, added Kuldeep who claimed to have learned the art in Delhi.
 
 This reporter came across homemaker Rita Barnwal, who and her mother-in-law had come from Kankerbagh Colony to Maurya Lok to get mehndi applied on their hands. “These artists are good at their work. I usually come to them in the festive and wedding seasons,” Rita said.
 
 Not that mehndi beckons only Hindu women. “This is the first Sawan after my wedding in March this year. I am travelling to Ahmedabad where my husband is posted, and will have mehndi applied on my hands soon after I reach there,” said Sabia Parveen of Sabzibagh.
 
 Rahila of Samanpura has been “instructed” by her mother-in-law to wear green bangles as well. “I grew up in a family which saw nothing as ‘meant-exclusively-for-Hindus’ or ‘exclusively- for-Muslims’... My in-laws’ family is also like that. I have seen my mother and now my mother-in-law and sister-in-law do what Hindu women do on their festive occasions,” explained Rahila, who got married in September last year and who had henna applied on her hands also for Eid recently.
 
