HYDERABAD: After making it mandatory for under-graduate students to study gender sensitisation, the state is all set to introduce topics like  .
A lesson each on the subjects will be included either in Social Studies or languages textbook. Officials of   (SCERT) said that the content for the lessons is ready.
 
 “We thought that students should have a fair idea about these concepts. Be it gender sensitisation or elections or traffic rules, knowing these topics is a must and will make them better human beings,“ said S   , director of SCERT. “While some of these topics are already there in the syllabus, we will be adding all the Acts related to these which will enable students to get in-depth knowledge,“ he added.
 
 Seconding Reddy , district education officer of Hyderabad, Ramesh Babu, said that bringing these `casual' topics into formal course work is the need of the hour.
 
 “Irrespective of whether these topics are in the curriculum, it is important for students to know all these topics. They should know how electing a good leader will change their lives or how they should behave with people of opposite gender. Including them in the syllabus will teach them about its importance,“ said Babu.
 
 While lessons on gender equality will be part of course for 1 to 9 class students, a topic on elections will be part of course for class 10 students. Even parents appreciated the move and said that in the wake of increasing number of sexual ha rassment cases, lessons on gender equality are a must.
 
 “Instead of having these topics in the college, it would be better if students get to learn the basics in school itself. It will make them more open and by the time they reach college, their level of understanding will be better.As they already would have a solid foundation by then, they will grasp these concepts effectively,“ said Aruna M, a parent. While schools are mulling to introduce a lesson on gender equality from this academic year, gender sensitisation is already a mandatory subject across undergraduate courses in the state.
 
