Did you know that we are all endowed with three types of immunities? One is innate (or natural) that we are born with. The second kind is adaptive   which develops throughout our lives and the third one is passive or borrowed immunity, something like mother’s milk for a newborn. Yet, we let our bodies weaken and fall prey to outside threats. Just as we plant more trees and clean our homes to disinfect our surroundings, we need timely vacuuming and replenishing of our inner system too.

 
 
 
 Immunity is everything when it comes to prevention and healing. It is what empowers the body to fight bacteria, pathogens and viruses and also recognise and destroy rogue and cancer cells. “There is no rocket science attached to a strong immunity. When we align the way we eat, sleep, think and move with nature, anything that is labelled as a disease or a condition tends to go away,” says Luke Coutinho, holistic   and exercise physiologist. 
 It is your lifestyle that builds a strong immune system. A University of Reading study shows that stressful thoughts can actually lower levels of immune antibodies. “Restful sleep is important – 10 hours for children and 6-8 hours for adults,” says Dr Anjali Hooda, clinical nutritionist. Scientists believe that we secrete higher levels of cortisol — the hormone that protects the immune system — while sleeping. 
 
 
 
 
 Exercise boosts your white blood cells which make you internally stronger. Yet, don’t go overboard. “Over-exercising reduces and weakens immunity. Running marathons and training without the right nutrition and vitamin levels in the body is dangerous for immunity,” adds Coutinho. Keep your workouts short and powerful. Jumping exercises, walking, yoga, Pilates are fantastic immunity boosters, as are short runs and weight lifting. “Exercise is the best antioxidant supplement,” says Hooda.
 
 
 
 
 How to balance nutrition? Make sure you make a note of your daily nutrition intake. Protein is a must. Research shows that deficiency of high-quality protein can result in depletion of immune cells. “A person weighing 60 kg needs at least 40 gm protein per day. Homemade curd is the best bacteria and protein source,” Hooda says. Get enough vitamin C since it works as a great scavenger in the body, cleaning up all the mess. Don’t ignore vitamin D. “So many people are deficient in Vitamin D3 and most people think this is just a bone vitamin. But it is also a precursor to good immunity,” adds Coutinho.
 
 Over-exercising reduces and weakens immunity. Running marathons without the right nutrition is dangerous.
 — Luke Coutinho, wellness expert
 
 
 
 
  Keeps the gut  y and infection-free
 
  A 60 gm serving carries nearly 50% of the daily recommended amount of vitamin E
 
  It directly attacks bacteria and viruses
 
  It’s the most easily digested fat, both milk and ghee should be organic and free of additives
 
 : Curcumin – active ingredient in turmeric, is anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidant, anti-bacterial, detoxifying and great for digestive health
 
 
