Mohali: The Punjab Police seem to still address African people as Negroes, a racial slur directed against the black people. In a recent case, the Kharar police booked a Nigerian national for possessing 16 boxes of beer bottles bearing the stamp of “to be sold in Chandigarh only” and in the FIR (first information report) mentioned the word “Negro” against his name.

 When investigation officer sub-inspector Nidhan Singh was asked why the racist slur linked to slavery was used against accused Christian Muccam, a student of MBA at Chandigarh University, he replied, “This is the identity of African nationals. This is what we always call them. We have booked and arrested Muccam and wrote the word   next to his name in the FIR.”
 
 Giving clarity over the racist remark written by the police officer, Kharar DSP Deep Kamal said, “All the cops are specifically instructed not to use any racist word or anything related to caste or place or skin colour of a person. I will get the FIR checked. If something like this has been written, it is a mistake and will be rectified.”
 
 SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal did not respond to repeated calls or messages sent by team TOI.
 
 According to police sources, the accused was arrested when he was carrying 16 crates of beer bottles and going towards Chandigarh University on the night of September 30. Police said the accused allegedly purchased the beer from Chandigarh and was selling it to students at higher prices. Sources said the accused was carrying out this practice for a long time.
 
 Bail hearing today
 
 The MBA student has applied for bail. The hearing in a court will take place on Tuesday. A friend of the Nigerian national said, “The beer was not meant for sale to anyone but for a party. Being an outsider, he was unaware about the law regarding carrying of liquor.”
 
 Derogative word
 
 The history of the word ‘Nigger’ is often traced to the Latin word ‘Niger’, meaning black. This word became the noun, Negro (black person), in English. By the early 1800s, it was firmly established as a derogative name. In the 21st century, it remains a principal term of white racism. It carries hatred and disgust towards African Americans. In India, new sections 153C and 509A in the Indian Penal Code (IPC) are likely to be introduced in the law to take matters of racial discrimination seriously
 
 
