Hyderabad-based IT professional-turned motivational speaker   has just one dream — to help visually impaired children become confident enough so that they too can chase their dreams. For the past two years, the 32-year-old engineer has worked with more than 200 students of  , and helped hone their leadership skills. “I feel the word ‘visually challenged’ is derogatory. These children are immensely talented. We should refrain from being over sympathetic towards them, as it demotivating and distances them from us. Instead, we should converse with them the way we do with other children so that they can feel they are no different,” says Raghunandan. 

 His weekly three-hour sessions for personality-cum-leadership development include specially designed modules that help the children improve their conversational skills and develop perseverance in them. “I began with small batches of 20 students each so that I could attend to each one of them personally. Initially, they were reluctant to interact, but they opened up after the ice-breaking session. I also motivated them to showcase their skills — be it singing, dancing or debate, and that too helped a lot,” says Raghunandan, adding that after completing the sessions, the youngsters were able to motivate their peers as well. 
 
 Needless to say, ‘Raghu bhaiya’, as the kids now call him, is a favourite among all the children. Sushant, a Class 8 student says, “Earlier, I used to struggle to converse in English. But after I attended Raghu bhaiya’s sessions, I am able to express my thoughts clearly and have started participating in inter-school debate competitions as well,” says 16-year-old Sushant. Shivani, his classmate, agrees. “I was always an introvert and was reluctant to speak to anybody, including my teachers. But now I am a lot more confident... The world outside is not so scary anymore,” says the 14-year-old, smiling.
 
 Crediting Raghunanadan for bringing about a positive change in their students, Ramakrishna, administrative officer of the school, says, “He gave all of us, especially our students, a huge confidence boost. The students now actively take part in debates and other 
 academic activities with a lot of enthusiasm.”
 
