VELLORE: A day after the   conducted a surprise check at the government approved   at   following a plethora of complaints of illegal  , the   closed down the yard on Friday.

 District Collector S A Raman told TOI, “Since there are no government-approved quarries in Walajapet and Arcot Taluks, we have closed down the sand yard though it had valid licence till November 24 this year.”
 
 It was a fallout of the raid conducted by revenue divisional officer of Ranipet R Rajalakshmi on Thursday. She, along with Walajapet tahsildar D Priya and police striking force conducted a raid at the yard, which has been under operation since late 2005. The team found that the contractors were indulging in illegal sand mining.
 
 After the closure of the public works department approved sand quarries in Kilambadi and Vallavanoor, the contractors continued to mine sand from patta lands along the riverbed. Exploiting the poverty of the farmers and drought condition, the sand mafia took several acres of farm land and patta land along the riverbed in Sathampakkam and neighbouring villages and mined sand illegally and transported it to the yard. The yard was being run by P Karupaiah since 2014 for second sales.
 
 “The sand mafia obtained power of attorney in their name from the farmers and illegally mined sand for over 30 to 50 feet distance from the riverbank. The farmers are being given Rs 20,000 to Rs 50000 as lease amount per acre per year. The sand mined illegally is stocked in the yard and sold in open market,” said a farmer in Sathampakkam on condition of anonymity.
 
 Sand mining was carried out for over 30-50 feet width for about 20 km length along the riverbank - from Kudimallur in Walajapet to Perungalmedu in Arcot Taluk. The riverbank in Vannivedu, Thirumalcheri, Sathampakkam, Thiruparkadal and Kadaperi in Walajapet taluk and Pudupadi, Kilambadi, Sakkaramallur, Esaiyanur and Vallavanoor in Arcot Taluk resembled like massive stone quarries, the villagers charged.
 
 Owing to sand mining, ground water level had depleted and agricultural activities were affected badly, he added. 
 
 The farmers took the issue to the notice of the officials and submitted several complaints. However, the sand mafia continued to do illegal mining. Against a government order passed in 2003 and the rules laid down by the state-level Environment Impact Assessment Authority (EIAA), sand has been mined 10 to 20 times beyond the permissible level of three feet. They have also used earthmovers and heavy machinery for mining.
 
 “We conducted inspection following several complaints. When we reached the spot, we found no one at the spot. We dug up trenches to prevent entry of vehicles into the riverbed,” said RDO Rajalakshmi.
 
 She instructed the PWD officials to take stock of the sand in the yard. The officials who accompanied the RDO said that several men fled from the spot minutes before the team reached.
 
 A senior public works official said that there would be no more sale at the yard from Friday afternoon. “As of now, the only sand quarry that is functional is at Vada Virunjipuram near Vellore, where sand is quarried and taken out using bullock carts,” said the official.
 
