MUMBAI: Twenty-one-year old   appeared for his   in February 2016 but has yet not been able to pursue higher education as the state board has held back his results. 

 While the reasons cited by the board is poor attendance, Rodrigues alleged the attendance was manipulated by Shri Namdar Ajit Pawar Junior College, Borivli, after his mother had a fight with the management over fee payment. The college was recently derecognised for conducting over 600 illegal first-year junior college admissions. 
 
 According to Rodrigues, who has also filed a writ petition in the Bombay HC in June 2016, the college submitted forged documents to the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education. “Both my sons study in the same college. They were hospitalized for dengue and hence, we could not pay fees in time. The principal tore Ashley’s project and threatened to get him beaten up while he made my younger son (who was in Class XI) stand outside the classroom. When I went to the college, they were rude to me as well,” said Swapna, the mother. 
 
 A few days later, Rodrigues said, he was not given the hall ticket for board exams and had to request the education department to intervene for a duplicate. “The board then conducted an inquiry when I complained of my result not being released. But according to a report by the education inspector, I had attended college for less than 50% of the days,” said Rodrigues, a commerce student. He recently met school education minister Vinod Tawde and recorded his statement with the Charkop police where principal Prashant Gaikwad is in custody in a case of examination malpractices. Mumbai board’s chairperson Dattatray Jagtap said, “The matter is subjudice and hence I cannot comment.”
 
 Rodrigues said there were discrepancies in the documents the college had submitted to the board. “The attendance log shows that only I had not been attending classes while the rest of the class was present almost everyday. I have been marked absent on other days but present on days that I was admitted in to hospital for dengue,” he said. 
 
 He also alleged that he was targeted because he did not participate in a survey the college had asked students to conduct. “Students were told to survey coaching centres in the vicinity and find out the number of students studying in classes XI and XII along with contact details of the owner. Students were promised 20 marks for the job. I insisted that I would appear for a viva instead,” he said.
 
 
