KISS! Keep it simple, stupid; would have been a good policy for Goa’s would-be rulers to follow in drafting their   for the Goa assembly election on Saturday. However, on many counts, they have adhered to the policy of MISS making it  !

 Roti, kapda, makaan remain the primordial needs of man. In Goa, man and his wife are doing quite well on this front. Then comes sadak, bijli, paani. Despite boasting of high social indices in the country, we are sorely lacking in this. Bandwidth is next. Probably, we are worst off in this.
 
 A cursory look at the election manifestos of some political parties makes it apparent that they have focussed on MISS. Someone has promised to remove casinos from the river. It would have been better if they had promised to remove the profusion of liquor bars on the roadsides, markets, villages. The ordinary Goan does not go so much to the casino; he frequents the bar. Alcoholism, its attendant problems of liver cirrhosis, domestic violence, deleterious effects on children and related deaths is a much bigger problem in Goa.
 
 Somebody has promised to encourage investments in tourism and industry. Not bad, but garbage continues to proliferate. Our tourism is concentrated along the coastal belt but power outages are so common here, not only commercial hotels but even residential homes along the coastal belt alleviate their sufferings though gen-sets and inverters. Electricity continues to be a thorn also for Goa’s industry. In short, our bijli is bad.
 
 Strange, but even in this age of high technology, newly-built roads in Goa develop potholes after a single season of rain. The roads in the North Goa coastal belt were in ruins for at least two tourist seasons due to the long-overdue sewerage project. Only God knows how tourism survived here. But roads are a regular problem all over Goa. Nobody seems to be holding anyone accountable for their quick deterioration. Yes, our sadaks are sub-standard and shoddy.
 
 Do we need to talk about paani? Maybe, there is an improvement in the water situation in Goa after the recent commissioning of the JICA-funded project at Selaulim. But pockets in Goa still suffer from shortages. We understand it is a problem of management, not of actual scarcity. It’s heartening that somebody has assured 24x7 water supply in Goa.
 
 The state has other problems which seem to have been missed in the election manifestos. Every year, for the last several years, about 300 persons die in road accidents in Goa. A high majority of these are motorcycle riders, which by implication means youth. Successive governments have been making appropriate noises on this issue, but even now, not a day passes with the media not reporting a road death or two.
 
 Somebody could have contemplated measures like pressing the central government to hike penalties for rash driving, make offenders do mandatory social service, suspend licences and ensure stricter enforcement of laws. Do what you want, but protect the lives of youth. But one election manifesto has now promised free petrol to the youth in Goa.
 
 Also worrisome is the problem of suicide deaths among the youth, which in recent years, has seen a spurt. Apparently, that does not qualify as an election issue at all. Nobody cares for the happiness index of the state. Maybe, someone could go on a junket to Bhutan to understand their high gross national happiness index. They could call it a study tour, all paid for by the tax-payer.
 
 Whether it is mentioned in election manifestos or not, Goan politicians have learnt to promise freebies to the people during times of election or otherwise. So we have a slew of schemes like the Dayanand Social Security Scheme, the Griha Aadhar and Laadli Laxmi Schemes. The first scheme, DSSS, benefits many but the others seem to be a ruse. Underlying the social welfare aspect of the schemes is a selfish motive; to create a vote bank for one’s party. It is our own money they are giving us, then some political party takes credit.
 
 Probably, the worst is the promised unemployment dole to youth. It would be good to educate, empower and employ the youth instead of creating this culture of dependence on government freebies and “free lunch”. 
 
 Some people have stressed on job creation. Failed promises on the same notwithstanding, it would be better to promote self-employment. Talk of zero tolerance to corruption, special status, etc, is just hot air.
 
 To be fair to successive Goan governments, the state is far better off in many sectors when compared to many other Indian states. 
 
 There are challenges, but we cannot get complacent after elections. And we must put first things first. It would be surprising how much we can achieve with a KISS.
 
 The writer is a senior journalist. The views expressed are his own.
 
