BENGALURU: What better place than the   to host a super achievers meet. So when a US entrepreneur with roots in Bengaluru,  , decided to engage motivational speakers and mentors from America with aspiring students and budding entrepreneurs, he chose the IT capital. Ahead of the meet, to be held at   from February 17-19, Anand said big ger problems mean bigger opportunities. Excerpts from an interview:

 
 
 
 Three years of homework has gone into the upcoming Super Achievers Summit. In today's world, there are new rules.Considering the exponential technologies that are sweeping across the world, the business, career and growth strategies that used to work five years ago are worthless today . If you want to make it big in the new world of technological ad vancement, yo u m u s t lear n the new frame work o r better, cre a t e yo u r own frame work, based on innovation. Entrepreneurial spirit is at an all-time high in India and Bengaluru is accepted as one of the top locations for startups across the world.
 
 
 
 The speakers are carefully selected based on their own success, and each one is an expert in hisher domain. All speakers run their own businesses and will share their perspectives on how they did what they did. The summit will be about frameworks, strategies and the latest resources. There will be over 2,000 participants sharing ideas. While most meets are focused on how to get funding or how to exit from startups, this conclave will focus on creating higher aspirational values.
 
 
 
 
 Participants gain incredible insights from the world-class speakers. One of the core topics in the seminar is linked to positive changes in efficiency , productivity , quality, competitiveness, and market share among other factors. The topics will be integrated with each other so that the participants will be able to make use of what they learn during the summit. After the event, participants will get to connect via a Facebook group.Speakers will conduct regular follow-up sessions via online webinars and Google hangouts.
 
