GREATER NOIDA: A day after   police booked five Nigerian students in connection with the death of a 16-year-old boy, Manish Khari, due to ‘drug overdose’, a group of foreign students gathered outside Kasna police station and held a protest march.

 The students, mostly from African countries, said they were wrongly framed and accused the police officers of bias. 
 
 The students gathered outside the police station at 10 am. They also held placards and banners which read – “Black Lives Matters, Say No To Racism, Skin Colour Does Not Matter,” etc.
 
 Usman, a Nigerian national and a BTech student in a private university, said the police have registered a case against five students without substantial proof. “We feel that the FIR was registered against Nigerian students due to bias. The police should investigate the matter and then take action. We protest against this motivated action,” he said. 
 
 The police on Saturday registered an FIR for abduction and murder against five Nigerian students – Usman, Amir, Kabir, Abdul and Sayeed – based on the complaint of the victim’s family members.
 
 The victim, Manish Khari, a student of Class XII in a private school, lived with his parents in NSG Society in Sector Pi II in Greater Noida. He went missing from his house on Friday evening. He was found intoxicated in the society next morning. The family members rushed him to a private hospital where he died during treatment. The family suspects involvement of Nigerian students in giving him drug overdoze.
 
 Abhinandan, circle officer, Greater Noida I, assured the protesting students that police will take action only after investigating the matter. “We have registered an FIR based on the complaints filed by victim’s family members. As per our preliminary investigation, we have not found any previous history of victim’s drug addiction. We have also not found any direct link between the victim and the accused. We are still investigating the matter,” he said.
 
 A doctor at Yatharth Hospital said that the student was admitted in the hospital with ‘overdose of drugs.’ However, the post-mortem report said that the cause of death could not be ascertained. 
 
 
