NAGPUR: It’s that time of the year when the region plays host to thousands of   who start their journeys from Siberia, Russia, Eurasia, China, Mongolia, Tibet, the Himalayas and other countries. But, this time, the dwindling number of winged guests has left bird lovers perturbed.

 While the variation can be attributed to many reasons depending on habitat site, experts feel that it is fallout of   and  .
 
 “Bird activity is quite less this year. January has begun but the number of water birds like Ruddy Shelducks is very low in comparison to previous years. Waders too are not being spotted much,” said avid birdwatcher  .
 
 About a month back, a flock of over 100 bar-headed geese were spotted at Telhara Lake in Mihan but they flew away within a day. “The situation is same at many lakes like Khapri and Saiki where the first flocks of migratory birds didn’t stay for long,” said birdwatcher Nitin Marathe.
 
 There was a time when Khapri lake at Umred Road would be a stopover for 300-400 bar-headed geese. “But this winter hardly 30-40 of them have been sighted,” said birdwatcher Venkatesh Mudaliar.
 
 Bird-watchers hardly recollect spotting bar-headed geese at places like Saiki Lake in the last two years. “Water-bodies, that used to be the hotspots for winter migratory birds, have stopped witnessing an impressive turn out. Human interference in the form of fishing and development work is the biggest reason behind habitat degradation,” said Mudaliar.
 
 Sonegaon and Koradi lakes are perfect examples of habitat loss due to human activities and pollution. “Sonegaon was a hot spot for many bird species like Coots and Little Grebe. Till 1985, I remember sighting hundreds of vultures too near the lake, which is now packed by construction activities from all four sides. Koradi Lake, which was a healthy habitat some years back, is now massively polluted,” said Marathe.
 
 The decline has not been drastic, population of migratory birds seems to be declining almost every year. Said bird expert Dr Sudhanshu Kothe, “Lakes are shrinking, vegetation is reducing but the ultimate cause is human interference. Around 15 years back, Ambazari backwaters would be covered with birds. Today, we have to look for them.” 
 
 Bird watcher   shares another example. “Years back, it was difficult to walk on the shore at Vena lake as the ground would be covered of nests and eggs. But with the coming of brick kilns, resort and increase in vehicular movement, the place no longer has favourable conditions for breeding. Changes in crop pattern is another reason why migratory birds are reducing. There has been a shift to soyabean in many areas,” he said.
 
 Apart from Nagpur, the numbers are declining in surrounding areas too. “In Amravati, species like Red-Crested Pochards, Northern Pintails, Common Teals are not as much as they would usually be. With 32 birds, this year has recorded the least number of Demoiselle Cranes that used to be sighted in hundreds earlier,” said Disha Foundation founder Yadav Tarte. 
 
 He added that unmonitored fishing and poaching of birds is mainly responsible. “Fishermen sometimes burst crackers to scare away birds,” said Tarte.
 
 The few numbers might not necessarily be ‘less migration’ but late migration too. “Climatic changes largely affects migration patterns. If the northern areas are not too cold, many birds just stay there and don’t fly southward. Only the juvenile ones do,” pointed out ornithologist Dr Anil Pimpalapure. 
 
 “Many species which would earlier be sighted in October-November now arrive post December. But habitat destruction is definitely a problem. Rules regarding construction activities around wetlands are not being implemented,” Pimplapure added. 
 
