HYDERABAD: World's Islamic history and heritage can now be seen through a new kaleidoscope at the grand Islamic Art Gallery at  , five years after it was first conceptualized. Clinical planning and consultation by experts since 2012 will give the upcoming gallery an artistic sophistication that is missing in many ancient art galleries in the world.

 Once ready, it will be the first of its kind in the Orient, which incidentally is the cradle of religions, philosophies and spiritual discourse.Currently, there are only two major Islamic art galleries in the world -both located in Europe-Victoria Albert Museum and   in the United Kingdom. Metropolitan Museum in New York recently opened one.
 
 The Islamic Art Gallery, which will be unveiled in next few months, gains significance as even the cradle of Islamic civilization, Saudi Arabia, doesn't have such a mammoth collection of Muslim art and artefacts. Also, Iraq and Iran, which played a significant role in development of Muslim spirituality, philosophy, art, architecture and calligraphy, don't boast of such a collection.Saudi Arabia and Malaysia too opened Islamic galleries recently, but they are no match to the one coming up in Hyderabad.
 
 Salarjung museum director Dr A   told TOI visitors will also get the facility to flip pages from rare books through a digital display system. “We plan to keep the collection on internet. One can read them, but cannot download,“ he said. Asked if the museum would come up with DVDs of the collection, Dr Reddy said it would be a policy decision as rare books and manuscripts are involved. “This is the single largest collection by any individual,“ he said.
 
 The gallery will revive the Islamic `touch' of Hyderabad, which it held till eight decades ago. Incidentally, Telangana government has proposed an Islamic Centre in Hyderabad. Together with the Islamic Art Gallery, the Islamic Centre will draw tourists from around the world, particularly from Muslim majority countries, said  , member of the Salarjung Museum board.
 
 According to an official note of Salarjung Museum, “the art collection represents an outstanding legacy in terms of its sophistication and stories it tells about Hyderabad's historical position and links“. In fact, the idea of an exclusive gallery in Salarjung Museum was floated in 2009 when the museum conducted an exhibition -Glimpses of courtly splendour ­ Indian Islamic Art in Sharjah, UAE. However, it took three more years to take a concrete shape, and another five years for the gallery to become a reality. At the  , only 43 Islamic art objects from Salarjung Museum were kept on display.
 
 The new gallery will, however, contain 2,500 Islamic exhibits, which are rare and possess great antique, historical, social, cultural and linguistic value. The gallery will be spread over 26,000 sq ft and will be located within the Salarjung Museum premises. Not all exhibits are Islamic (religion). Many of them are related to Muslim kings, nobles, poets, historians, writers and kingdoms.Some of the objects are unique as these are not available anywhere in the world. The exhibits range from textiles and carpets to porcelain and glass objects, and from swords to body armour. “The museum has a great collection of copies of the Holy Quran in different calligraphic and writing styles, including Kufi and Nastalik. As many as 365 rare copies of the Quran will be on display.There are also about 200 rosaries,“ said Zakir Hussain.
 
 Senior advocate M Zameeruddin suggests the Salarjung Museum authorities should convince the Nizam Trust to loan some rare collections for display at the Islamic Art Gallery.“Hyderabad is rich in Islamic heritage. It is also the shining example of the Ganga-Jamuni (Hindu-Muslim unity) tradition. Some of the buildings built during the regime of the Nizam VII, Mir Osman Ali Khan, exhibit a unique style of architecture that is based on Hindu and Muslim culture. Islamic objects in Hyderabad are scattered. They should be brought under one roof for common exhibition. In fact, a new building should be constructed to house all collections, including those in private hands,“ said Zameeruddin.
 
