SURAT: Shailesh Nagar, an executive with a private bank, lives in Nanpura. Nagar owns a car, but doesn’t have parking a space in his locality. For the last many months, Nagar is parking his car at Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) multi-level parking near Gandhi Smruti Bhavan after having paid a lump sum charge to the contractor. 

 Similarly, a textile trader on Ring Road Krishna Aggarwal, too, has made an arrangement with the multi-level parking contractor near   for dumping his textile goods as well as for parking his car on a monthly rental. These are not isolated cases. Majority of multi-level parking and pay-and-park facilities created by the civic body are being misused by the contractors to earn huge income. 
 
 The SMC may have created parking spaces across the city to check growing traffic congestion, but the contractors are raking in moolah by giving the parking spaces on rental, while the people are forced to park their vehicles on road. 
 
 When TOI visited the pay-and-park facility under Ring Road flyover, we found ‘potlas’ of grey fabric piled up in the parking space, leaving little space for parking of two-wheelers. 
 
 Parking fee collector boy Raju said there was no space for parking the vehicle due to dumping of grey fabric parcels. The parcels belong to textile traders and they pay the parking contractor monthly rental. 
 
 “I can’t allow you to park here because there is no space. You go further down the road or park your vehicle somewhere else,” the parking fee collector boy said. 
 
 Nilay Jani and his wife had come to the textile market to purchase saris and dress material. They were doing the circle of the parking area, but could not find a space to park their car. They even visited the multi-level parking at Abhishek Market, but were told that the parking area was houseful. 
 
 “I don’t understand, where should people park their vehicles. You have pay-and-park and multi-level parking facilities, but they are occupied by traders and tempowalas,” Jani said.
 
 The scene at the multi-level parking at Kadar Shah Ni Naal at Nanpura was horrific. The ground floor of the parking was occupied by scrap dealers and some handcarts were parked inside. When inquired, the contractor said there was no parking space available. 
 
 A multi-level parking contractor said, “Commuters here do not prefer parking their vehicles in the multi-level parking. If we do not allow others to park on fixed monthly rental, then we would have to close our business. We are paying handsome amount to SMC for hiring the multi-level parking facility.” 
 
 Unethical practices stifle a good project
 
 HimansshuBhatt & Melvyn.ReggieThomas
 
 Surat:   (SMC) has set up nine multi-level parking and 27 pay-and-park facilities across the city, along with three additional parking at Science Centre in Ghod Dod, aquarium in Pal and Sanjeev Kumar auditorium in Adajan. 
 
 The civic body earns Rs 11 crore per annum from parking facilities. But, due to unethical practices adopted by private contractors, the public at large are denied a proper parking space. Renting out of parking spaces on monthly basis is very much visible on Ring Road. 
 
 Regional Transport Office (RTO) figures say   has more than 3 lakh cars and 22 lakh two-wheelers. 
 
 The nine multi-level parking facilities in different municipal zones can accommodate around 5,000 two-wheelers and 1,000 cars. Apart from these, there are 27 pay-and-park facilities under the flyovers, open spaces, service roads etc. 
 
 The city is bestowed with 200 feet wide roads at major locations, but the parking space is very limited. Thus, the commuters are forced to park their vehicles on the roadside which lead to traffic snarls. 
 
 Former president of Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry B S Agarwal said, “Parking is a major issue in the city. If we talk about our own facility in Nanpura, we do not have parking space. During my tenure, I had submitted a proposal to the civic body to provide 100 square metre land in Makkai Pool to creating ‘puzzle parking’—automated parking of cars.”
 
 Special municipal commissioner M Nagrajan told TOI, “We will inquire and take stringent action against those contractors who are renting out parking spaces. Parking facilities are created for general public and cannot be rented out by the contractors on a monthly basis.” 
 
 PARKING METER
 
 1 Number of multi-level parking facilities: 9
 
 2. Number of pay-and-park facilities: 27
 
 3. Total capacity at parking facilities: 12,000 vehicles (cars and two-wheelers)
 
 4. Total number of cars: 3 lakh
 
 5. Total number of two-wheelers: 22 lakh.
 
 TIMES VIEW: Surat Municipal Corporation faces umpteen challenges in formulating a decisive parking policy for the city where more than 50,000 four-wheelers and 1 lakh two-wheelers get registered every year. The civic body had created parking facilities across the city, but they are being misused by the contractors, who rent out the space on a monthly basis. The new parking policy, which is likely to be announced shortly, should include stringent clauses for such unscrupulous contractors. 
 
 
