She quit her chartered accountant’s job to pursue her dream of becoming an actor. Her immense love for acting and   brought her to India from  . So, after auditioning for several Indian TV soaps, she has finally landed her first big break. And how! The young and bubbly debutante,  , 
will soon be seen playing the protagonist 
 in an upcoming show on a leading entertainment channel. Since her character in the serial has a strong Kolkata connect, she visited the city recently on a promotional spree. CT spent a day with Tina, chatting away at Prinsep Ghat, Victoria Memorial, a city-based NGO and other places. Excerpts:
 You don’t come from a film background…
 Yes, I am a chartered accountant by profession and used to work for a private firm in Manchester. However, I always wanted to become an actor, so I quit my job to chase my dream. My family was based in Delhi before they shifted to the UK when I was in primary school.
 So, when were you bitten by the 
 acting bug?
 I have always been very interested in acting. I have also done theatre for a long time. Also, I draw huge inspiration from Shah Rukh Khan, who too comes from a non-film background. 
 You just got your first break. How does it feel?
 I was ecstatic when I got to know that I have been selected for the role. I was happier to know about the character. I had auditioned for all the three daily soaps that are being launched in the channel’s afternoon slot, and luckily got through this one.
 Is there any similarity between your character Aastha and yourself?
 Aastha is a selfless girl, something I really like about her. Though I am not 
 as nice as her but I too believe in serving 
 the society and helping the needy. I think 
 people should always watch out for 
 their karma.
 Is this your first visit to Kolkata?
 No. I had earlier shot near the Howrah bridge for almost a month. As the protagonist has a Kolkata connection, I am here making the most of this city.
 What did you like about this city?
 The tea, the sweets and the people of this city are amazing. People here are still humane and not just running after money unlike cities like Mumbai or Delhi, where people have become very mechanical. Kolkatans are really warm. Also, the food here is so yummy. You know I had so many khirkodoms this morning. Loved it (smiles).
 Can you speak Bengali?
 A bit. I know Khoro bayu boy bege (croons softly). I learnt this during a dance drama. My pronunciation is correct, no?
 
