NAGPUR: Even though the town   of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is yet to approve the development plan for   and   areas, the other departments of the civic agency are carrying out development works. Strangely, the standing committee of NMC has been approving these works too. 

 On Monday, standing committee chairman Sandip Jadhav and ruling party leader Sandip Joshi had no justification for this move. The two areas fall in the assembly constituency of guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule.
 
 NMC is in the process of finalizing the plan for  . It has called suggestions and objections on the draft plan. So far 122 objections have been received. A three-member committee comprising standing committee members will decide on them.
 
 It is possible that the alignment of some roads proposed in the draft plan may be changed in view of the objections. In that case, these roads will have to razed and relaid elsewhere. NMC is likely to suffer loss of a few lakhs. When this was brought to the notice of Jadhav and Joshi, both had no explanation.
 
 Meanwhile, the standing committee is yet to receive Bawankule’s order of a third party audit of development works in the two areas. The directive was issued on April 25. Jadhav said that the order would be discussed in the next standing committee meeting.
 
 The minister had ordered an enquiry into road and water pipeline works done by NMC in Hudkeshwar-Narsala areas by private agency  . He had received complaints regarding substandard quality of works from large number of citizens.
 
 NMC is carrying out three projects in the two areas. The first is road works in Narsala worth Rs17.47 crore. The second is road works in Hudkeshwar worth Rs14.79 crore and water distribution network in both areas worth Rs63.05 crore.
 
 Bawankule had directed NMC that unless Geotech certified that quality of the three works was satisfactory bills of the contractors should not be cleared. The contractors should also continue the works under the supervision of Geotech.
 
