Mumbai: Following the example of Western countries which have a “30% Club”, India has come up with its own “20% Club” — an aspirational target of achieving 20%   on   by 2020.

  chairman   on Thursday said having 20%   on corporate boards by 2020 is aspirational but achievable. The proportion of women on boards as on March 31, 2017 stands at 13%. It has more than doubled from 5% in 2012. Tyagi was speaking at the launch of a report ‘Corporate India: Women on Boards’, based on a study jointly conducted by Institutional Investor Advisory Services, Women on Corporate Boards Mentorship Programme and Prime Database Group.
 
 Like minded individuals and industry bodies are speaking in unison that at 13%, women are still underrepresented in stewardship roles despite constituting a significant portion of the talent pool in corporate India. “This is much lower than countries like Norway (39%), France (34%), UK (23%) and USA (21%). Only 26 boards in the Nifty 500 had three or more women directors on March 31, 2017. Fifteen companies had no female representation on boards, as compared with only six companies in the S&P 500 on March 31, 2017,” according to the report. 
 
 “Statistically and probabilistically, women should form 50% of the workforce. Unless one is convinced that this is really beneficial for a board, administrative measures and legislative measures are just a tick in the box and doesn’t serve the purpose,” said Tyagi, while adding that it was not acceptable that some companies still have no woman director on their boards.
 
 “Women bring in a diverse perspectives in addition to discipline to a board. They also have a better sensitivity to customer issues. The stipulation of having one woman director on boards should not result in close ended clubs with vested interests. It should be fair and equitable. We should all work in the direction of achieving 20% women representation on boards by 2020,” said Tyagi.
 
 Zia Mody, managing partner, AZB & Partners, said: “One woman on board is tokenism, we need to reach our own Club of 30%. Every woman on the board is valuable,” Mody said companies don’t need to wait for a superstar women to induct them on boards.
 
 In response to a question on a different topic of the independence of independent directors, Tyagi said this was a valid and serious issue wherever companies are driven by promoters and the free float is low. “We are looking into how we can dig deeper into this issue. Let’s see how far we succeed,” said Tyagi.
 
 
