THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As part of enforcing a prudent   and to avoid   on the last day of the financial year, the finance department has decided not to allow the presentation of bills at the state treasury on Friday. 

 The department has issued instructions to other departments that bills can be presented at treasuries only till 5pm on Thursday. The last day of the financial year will be exclusively devoted to the clearance of these bills. Sources in the finance department said the system has been put in place as the treasuries and banks have switched over to a computer-based system and bills have to be cleared before midnight on the same day.
 
 Despite dedicating the last day only for clearance, if the presented bills are still not cleared by treasuries, they won't lapse. Instead, such bills will be queued up and given top priority for clearance. They will get funds from the next financial year's budget, in addition to the allocation for them for the financial year 2017-18.
 
 Since the   (LSGI) have not shifted to online system completely, manual bills presented by LSGIs will be accepted. They will be given tokens, along with the sequence and time of presenting the bill.
 
 The usual practice that departments resort to is to draw huge advances on the last day of the financial year so that the budget allocations for a financial year does not lapse. Also, a huge number of cheques, bills and challans are presented to treasuries on that very day as there is no proper scrutiny of such bills.
 
 The   (CAG) had said that it does not support such practices that violate rules pertaining to fiscal prudence and financial propriety. The new method was introduced to control such improper practices.
 
 State treasuries are already witnessing a huge rush of bills as pace of plan expenditure for the current financial year was desperately low. The government is striving hard to take the plan expenditure figures beyond 60% of the total plan funds, so that it becomes a plausible figure.
 
