Hyderabad: With the clamour to make life saving drugs more affordable growing louder across the globe, Swiss pharma behemoth Novartis is increasingly banking on technological tools such as data analytics and deep learning to drive down the costs of drug discovery, Vasant Narasimhan, global head of drug development and chief medical officer, Novartis, said.

 In the near-term, the company is also toying with the idea of outcome based pricing of drugs in the US where drug pricing has come under the scanner of the Trump administration.
 
 “We want to be leaders in bringing data analytics into our development efforts, clinical trials… whether it is sensors, deep learning or machine learning, we are already doing that and increasingly rolling out these efforts. This is a top priority as we believe that it will enable us to drive down the cost of drug development,” Narasimhan said, adding that Novartis’ Hyderabad development centre could prove to be strategic as the company has built all these capabilities here.
 
 Interestingly, of the 800 people that work in the area of data analytics in Novartis, 100 are based out of Hyderabad and working on key cutting edge projects related to the company’s upgradation of data technology infrastructure.
 
 On the raging issue of drug pricing in the US, where pharma cos have been facing heat, he said pricing has been a complex issue there with a lot of stakeholders such as distributors and pharma managers influencing the costs.
 
 “One of the things we are working on is outcome based pricing with appropriate medicines…We are seeing if we can actually build the system where we can capture the data, measure patients outcome and tie the pricing to the outcomes,” he said, adding that Novartis has been running around four trials in the US with different healthcare insurers to study this model.
 
 Speaking about Hyderabad, where the company has recently shifted to a new facility built at an investment of $200 million, the Novartis top official said the company has not just outsourced certain components but built an integrated development centre, where almost all the clinical trial work that Novartis does around the world is touched in some way by the centre.
 
 The company’s Hyderabad operations house 3,500 employees and Narasimhan pointed out that a rich talent base has been the biggest draw for the company to scale up its operations here.
 
 On the intellectual property regime in the country, that caused a lot of heartburn for Novartis as it failed to get patent protection for its blockbuster cancer drug Glivec, Narasimhan said, “Glivec is behind us. When we view now from the global perspective, IP is going in the right direction. But we do continue to have concerns about…compulsory licencing…Similarly, we would like better protection on data. But the key is consistency because when there are sudden shifts in policy, it really disrupts our operations.”
 
 BOX
 
 Hyderabad-based startup incubator T-Hub on Thursday announced that it has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Novartis Healthcare Private Ltd (NHPL) to create and execute joint programs that would benefit health tech startups. As a part of the MoU, experts from Novartis will mentor startups. Commenting on the development, T-Hub CEO Jay Krishnan said, “Novartis will bring great value to the ecosystem. With health tech being one of our prime sectors, we are working towards ensuring that startups associated with T-Hub are well mentored and guided through various programmes of ours, which will help them scale their businesses faster.”
 
 
