Amritsar: Unrest over Gorkhaland movement in hills of Darjeeling, West Bengal, which led to killing of three persons in police firing on Saturday has evoked sharp criticism from the tiny hill town of Bakloh in Himachal Pradesh, home town to 4 Gorkha Rifles. The local Gorkha population is throwing its weight behind the agitators and justifying the demand of a   to protect their identity.

 Bakloh is a tiny hill village bordering Punjab’s Pathankot district with over a settlement of 4,000-5,000 Gorkhas.
 
 Condemning the alleged police brutality on Gorkhas, president of Gorkha Sabha, Bakloh, Vijay Gurung told TOI on Sunday “opening fire on agitators is totally unacceptable and is gross violation of human rights”. He said the sabha had demanded immediate intervention of the central government to prevent the situation from turning to worse . “We stand firm like a rock behind our fellow Gorkha brethren in Darjeeling,” he said.
 
 Vijay’s deputy Krishan Thapa alleged that the West Bengal government was trying to brand Gorkhas as terrorists . “The fact is that Gorkhas in Darjeeling are demanding a separate state and not a separate country, yet the police unleashed a terror on them,” he said.
 
 Echoing Thapa’s views, a prominent resident of Bakloh, Rajiv Gurung said that, “We are still identified as Nepalese in India while our forefathers died here as Indian nationals and we want to be recognized as Indians and not Nepalese,” adding that with Gorkhaland people would recognize them as Indians. Peeved over the alleged atrocities being committed on Gokhaland agitators, president, Shakti Mahila Mandal, Meera Thapa, said that, “We have to raise a united voice to attract the attention of Central government and make it realize that Gorkhas in India were unanimous on the demand of Gorkhaland.
 
 Another Gorkha activist, Jatinder Singh Rana, said that till now they were extending silent support to the Gorkhaland agitation but now they want their voice to be heard at the international level for a separate state. “Gorkhas have always been on the forefront of saving the nation from external aggression, yet they face serious identity crisis in their own country and Gorkhaland was the only answer to that,” he quipped.
 
 
