MUMBAI: JJ Marg police arrested a 24-year-old doctor on Saturday for allegedly submitting a fake   to obtain admission to the MBBS course in 2010-2011. 

 The accused, Dr   (24), reportedly told cops that she had paid Rs 10 lakh to Dr   to get a caste certificate, based on which she had secured admission into Grant Medical College (GMC). 
 
 This is the second FIR to be filed in   station over fake caste certificates. 
 
 Malik was arrested after being summoned for questioning. “We have arrested her based on the complaint of Yuvaraj Sonawane, chief administrative officer, GMC. Her caste certificate, which was submitted to obtain admission, was found to be bogus,” said DCP Manoj Kumar Sharma. 
 
 The certificate, issued from the Nandurbar district, showed that Malik belonged to a scheduled tribe. “She named Dr Wahab Mirza as the one who helped her get the certificate. Last year, we had registered a case against nine MBBS students in a smiliar case, and Mirza was named in that case too,” said an officer. Mirza’s anticipatory bail has been rejected and he is on the run.
 
 Police said they are probing how Malik connected with Mirza to get the certificate and whether there were more people involved in the case. 
 
 Earlier this month, J J Marg police had arrested Dr   and his uncle, Dr Aarif Reshamwala, honorary doctor with GMC, for allegedly helping students get and submit fake certificates. “It’s a huge chain of accused who look for innocent students, lure them and even help them get fake caste certificates after charging between Rs 10 lakh and Rs 15 lakh,” said an officer.
 
 Several members of the Reshamwala family have come under the police scanner in this case. Dr Aarif, who holds master in surgery (MS) degree, was an honorary lecturer at GMC for 15 years. He stopped attending college after his name cropped up in the certificate scandal. Aarif’s children, Aayesha and Akhef, both MBBS students at GMC, got anticipatory bail in a criminal case for allegedly submitting fake certificates and securing admission under the ST quota. 
 
 A scrutiny committee had found that Dr Shadab’s ST caste certificate, issued in 2007 from the office of deputy collector, Osmanabad, had been made in the name of one Suket Prashant Gyandev. Moreover, the committee said A J Gujjar, officer whose signature was on it, had never worked in that office. 
 
 On November 2 last year, joint commissioner and vice-chairman of scheduled tribe certificate scrutiny committee (Nashik) had written to the directorate of medical education and research mentioning five students whose caste certificates were either bogus or their original records were not found. 
 
 
