NOIDA: The officials of district administration and police sealed one of the four fuel dispensing machines at a petrol pump in Sector 105 after they found a black spot on the pulsar card on the machine.

 The Indian Oil fuel station — Shaheed Deshraj Petrol Pump — was allowed to function with the rest three machines as no glitches were found.
 
 The petrol pump was allocated to the kin of Deshraj Mavi, a gardener with Central Public Works Department, posted at Parliament House, who had died in the Parliament attack on December 13, 2001.
 
 The crackdown comes a week after the UP Special Task Force (STF) unearthed a racket involving several petrol pump stations in Lucknow using a chip-based device that dispenses less fuel. However, the officials in Noida have not found any such   during the inspection.
 
 The officials found four fuel machines and a total of 12 fuel nozzles attached to them at the petrol pump. One nozzle was found out of order while 11 were functional.
 
 District magistrate B N Singh and SSP Love Kumar also visited the petrol pump for inspection. “Prima facie we found that the dispensing unit of one machine was suspicious. There are usually five holes on the pulsar card of a fuel dispensing unit. In this specific machine, the four holes on the pulsar card were visible while one had a dark spot, and seemed smoldered. It is too early to say if this was tampered. We have sealed the machine for further examination,” said B N Singh, district magistrate. An official of Indian Oil Corporation also accompanied the investigation officials but he too failed to explain the dark spot. 
 
 “The team conducted examinations at the fuel station. We are cooperating in the investigation,” said a staffer at the petrol pump.
 
 The administration had formed three teams for inspection of all the fuel stations in Gautam Budh Nagar district. The teams comprised officials of district administration, city police, weight and measures department, a representative of oil companies and a supplier of machines. Ramanuj Singh, city magistrate, Noida said that the officials also conducted inspections at two   in Sector 63 and 35 but they did not find any irregularity.
 
 
