CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana   on Friday vacated the stay on the   of Gurgaon (MCG) elections after the state government placed on record the draft of   of  

 While vacating the stay orders on the election process, division bench headed by Justice Mahesh Grover observed that the petitioner would be at liberty to challenge the notification, if he is aggrieved with it. The court has adjourned the hearing of the case to October 13.
 
 The matter has reached before the HC in the wake of a petition filed by Bhoop Singh, a resident of Tigra village of Gurgaon district and others villagers of adjoining areas.
 
 Petitioners had sought directions to set aside the September 2, 2016, and January 13, 2017, notifications through which the state government had re-fixed the number of seats/wards and demarcated their boundaries.
 
 Hearing the petition, the HC on February 8, 2017, had directed the state not to go ahead with the elections of MCG unless the notification regarding demarcation was not finalized.
 
 During the hearing of the case on Friday, additional advocate general Lokesh Sinhal submitted a copy of final draft notification regarding the wardbandi of MC. Sinhal clarified that after detailed door-to-door survey, it has been decided to have 35 wards under the civic body.
 
 The petitioner in this case has been arguing that a notification was issued on February 4, 2016, reducing the number of wards from 35 to 32. The number of wards was fixed on account of the census figures showing a total population of 9,09,392 as per the 2011 census as against a total population of 11,53,734 in the 2009 census.
 
 However, on January 13, 2017, one more notification was issued proposing a fresh demarcation of the 35 wards. Terming the new notification as arbitrary, petitioners has been arguing that the government has completely ignored all settled norms and principles in re-fixing the wards, especially the previous figures which are in total contradiction to the figures now being projected to justify the fixation of seats.
 
 It was also stated that the ad hoc body for carrying out the delimination work was constituted on the same day when the impugned notification had been issued, clearly showing that the constitution of the committee was just an eye wash and the matter of re-fixing of the wards had already been decided upon. All members of the ad hoc committee were members of the ruling party in the state, including current MLA and three others ex-councilors, the petitioners added.
 
