The   finale may have been held in Hyderabad, but that didn’t stop Mumbaikars from going all out to celebrate the victory of their team. The grand finale was held on Sunday night, and though the Mumbai team scored just 129, it beat Team Pune by 1 run in an exciting finish. 

 
 
 Several restaurants and watering holes in the city had installed giant screens to telecast the match live and also had attractive offers on food and beverages. Despite the day after the finale being a working Monday, many flocked to lounges to catch the action live. The party did not end with Mumbai lifting the cup. In fact, it continued with fans throwing impromptu bashes at their homes. What’s more, some even burst firecrackers to ring in the victory. 
 
  
  
 Akshat Yadav, a 31-year-old marine engineer, says, “I had to report on ship at 6 am, but my friends and I watched the match on a big screen at a lounge in the city. And after Mumbai pulled off such a stunning victory, we had to celebrate. Fifteen of us went to a five-star hotel for a round of drinks and once the restaurant at the hotel shut by 1 am, we took the party home.” Ravi Pitale, a fourth-year engineering student, called his friends home at 11.30 pm to celebrate. He says, “We binge watched previous matches of Team Mumbai and even saw highlights from previous seasons of IPL. Mumbai is the only team to have lifted the trophy three times and it’s a matter of great pride for us.”
 
 Karthik Rishab, project head with an electronic panel manufacturer, says, “I’d booked my flight ticket to Hyderabad months in advance, but I couldn’t manage the ticket for the finale. So, I had to cancel my flight tickets. My parents were upset that I wasted a lot of money, but the team winning the trophy has more than made up for my losses.”
 
 
 
 For us Indians, cricket is a religion and regional boundaries don’t matter. Niharika Khandyal, a management trainee with an MNC, watched the finale with her friends in Pune. “We were the only group to whistle and scream every time Team Pune lost a wicket. We got dirty stares from Pune supporters. It was a nail-biting finish and by the time the match ended, I had chewed all the nails on my hands.” Ajinkya Mutyal is a third-year BCA student based in Pune. He says, “I’m a die-hard Mumbai supporter. My exams were on in full swing and so, I couldn’t go to Hyderabad. But I saw the finale on TV and was cheering till my voice turned hoarse.” 
 
 
 The recently-concluded tournament had found fans across all age groups. One of them is 70-year-old Farokh Baria. He was so upset when Mumbai won the toss and elected to bat that he changed channels and started watching a dance reality show instead. “Choosing to bat first was a bad decision. We are good chasers, not great defenders. I was so stressed that I changed channels and started watching Nach Baliye instead. It was only when the seventh wicket fell that I tuned back to the match with a heavy heart. After the poor score, I was certain we would lose. I still cannot believe Mumbai snatched a one-ball win,” he shares.
 
 Mili Lele, a homemaker, says her eight-year-old son screamed his lungs out when Mumbai won the finale. She adds, “He was glued to the TV till the last ball. He screamed so hard that I was worried he would lose his voice. He went to bed only after the presentation ceremony was over.” Vidha Kulkarni, a senior auditor, says, “My husband is away in Delhi for work. But he called me at 11.45 pm and gave me a ball-by-ball update of the match. He hung up only after he explained how thrilling this finale was and that I should have seen it, too.”
 
 
 Trust   to flaunt Team Mumbai’s win like no other. The actor posted a video of himself cruising along the Bandra–Worli Sea Link, singing and head banging to We Are The Champions. The video went viral on Sunday night. 
 
 
 
 Those who are connected with both Pune and Mumbai in some way or the other were in a dilemma. Like TV star Nikkhil Arya, who was born and raised in Pune and moved to Mumbai a few years ago to pursue his acting career. He says, “When it’s a battle between my janmabhoomi and my karmabhoomi, it’s always tough for me to choose. On a lighter note, I blame myself that my janmabhoomi Pune lost the finals. On the three previous occasions that they had played against the Mumbai team, I watched the matches in Pune and Pune won. The moment I travelled to my karmabhoomi, Mumbai, they lost a humdinger of a final! But what a match it was and the one takeaway from it is that pressure can test the greatest of legends. And well, if you permit me to be a bad loser, then I would like to add that there were a couple of atrocious umpiring decisions including a wide that was not given, which probably would have seen Pune through. Also, in no international cricket tournament have I seen so many catches being dropped... and I am ready to stick my neck out with the stats-man on that.” 
 
 
 
 That Indians are passionate about cricket is well known. What probably isn’t so known is that Rolling Stones lead singer Mick Jagger follows IPL, too. He surprised everyone with his tweet, “I don’t think Mumbai have scored enough runs in the #IPLfinal to win this, but you never know? Mj,” on Sunday, before the match between Mumbai and Pune reached its climax. 
 
  
  
 
