NEW DELHI: In a major upset in the Delhi University Students' Union election, the Congress-backed National Students' Union of India on Wednesday wrested the top two posts from the right-wing  , whose vote share for the president's post dipped significantly from 34.5% last year to 26.8%.

 NSUI nominees won the posts of president and vice president, the first time since 2012 that the group has bagged more than one   post. 
 
 NSUI's Rocky Tuseed, who had got the court's go-ahead to fight the elections after his candidature was cancelled by the university's election committee, became DUSU president with 16,299 votes, beating ABVP's Rajat Choudhary by 1,590 votes. NSUI was quick to dub the results as the beginning of a “saffron safaya“, starting from the DU campus, while the RSS-backed ABVP claimed that its core votes were intact.
 
 The elections also saw a high percentage of NOTA votes, with 16.5% of voters pressing the `none-of-theabove' button for the joint secretary's post.
 
 Kunal Sehrawat of NSUI won the post of vice-president, while Mahamedhaa Nagar and Uma Shankar of ABVP won the posts of secretary and joint secretary, respectively. Over 54,000 votes were polled for each of these posts. The far-left AISA, which has been gaining grounds in DU in the last three-four year, lost in terms of vote share (from 11.8% in 2016 to 8.9% in 2017 for the post of president).
 
 The results were a jolt for the ABVP , which has dominated DU student politics in recent years, having won at least three of the four posts in every election since 2010, with the exception of 2012.These included clean sweeps in 2014 and 2015.
 
 “Of course, it is a disappointment to lose two seats.But we have maintained our support base in DU and our votes haven't been reduced.We look forward to working together on student issues with NSUI in DUSU as they have come on an equal platform. We lost the two other two posts narrowly,“ said Saket Bahuguna, national media convener, ABVP .
 
 NSUI saw the results as a wider vote against BJP. “This is the beginning of the 'saffron safaya' starting from DU campus. The students saw through the way PM Modi campaigned for ABVP through his televised address to the youth. And this is not only a mandate against the ABVP's violence on campus starting with Ramjas college to Law Faculty , Hyderabad Central University to Jawaharlal Nehru University , but also a vote against the central government's work in last three years,“ claimed Amrish Ranjan Pandey , national spokesperson, Indian Youth Congress.
 
 Riding on the anti-ABVP sentiment, NSUI's vote share for the post of president increased from 24.7% in 2016 to 29.8% this year. While it won the president's post comfortably , its winning margin for post of vice president was just 175 votes.
 
 On the other hand, the group missed the chance of inflicting a bigger defeat on ABVP , losing the joint secretary's post by 342 votes.
 
 Tuseed's victory itself is significant as on the day of issuing the final list of candidate, the DU election committee had cancelled his nomination. He approached the Delhi high court and got his candidature reinstated just two days to campaign.
 
 “It is a major comeback for us (NSUI) in DU. We won because of our work for the students despite being out of DU in 2014 and 2015. The mandate is also against the attack on liberal and democratic values unleashed by the ABVP. DU students have given us a huge responsibility to fight for their rights,“ said Tuseed.
 
 Another highlight of the elections were a significant increase in the number students opting for NOTA. Of the 54,603 votes polled for the post of joint secre tary , 9,028 went to NOTA. For the post of president, 5,162 students pressed the NOTA button.
 
 The victorious NSUI candidates met Congress president Sonia Gandhi as the party sought to give the result a wider political significance.
 
 “Traditionally , ABVP used to win the DUSU polls till 1985 while in the later years, it became a mixed contest between NSUI and the saffron body . But never during these years had any outfit asked for rejection of nomination papers on fraudulent grounds which had to be restored by the high court. This is a manifestation of the subversion of Indian universities by the NDA-BJP government,“ Congress spokesman Manish Tewari said.
 
 Many observers saw the violence in Ramjas college on February 21, 2017, followed by the cancellation of a play on nationalism at SGTB Khalsa college's fest as brazen intimidation by the ABVP-led DUSU, which also allegedly led to disallowing of three plays in a street play event at Ramjas and postponement of an Independence Day event at Delhi School of Economics due to security concerns.
 
 The alleged involvement of DUSU president Amit Tanwar in the reported harassment of the law faculty dean also doesn't seem to have gone down well with the students.
 
 Associate professor Suraj Yadav of Swami Shraddhanand College said: “Students have rejected the anti-higher education policies of Modi government, resulting in scrapping of seats, charging of exorbitant fees, jobs being decreased and attack on reservations etc.  , after the setback to BJP in DUTA and JNUSU, is an anti-Modi mandate of the youth and students of Delhi University .“
 
