NEW DELHI: A group of ministers headed by then finance minister   had finalised the contract with   for purchase of 68 aircraft for Air India in December 2005, contrary to repeated allegations about sole involvement of then civil aviation minister   in the Rs 70,000 crore deal.

 On Thursday, the SC set a deadline for CBI to complete investigations into the purchase of aircraft by Air India during UPA-I government by June after taking into consideration the allegations made in the petition filed by NGO ‘Centre for Public Interest Litigation’.
 
 The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA)’s December 15, 2005 decision to constitute an   was given effect to by the cabinet secretary on December 20, 2005. The EGOM was “under the chairmanship of P Chidamabaram, finance minister, consisting of H R Bharadwaj, minister for law and justice;  , minister for statistics and programme implementation and Praful Patel, minister for civil aviation as members”.
 
 CCEA had authorised the EGOM “to hold one final round of negotiations with the lowest bidders to finalise the transaction”. The EGOM held discussions with representatives of Boeing and GE on December 24, 2005 in a meeting also attended by then cabinet secretary, expenditure secretary and civil aviation secretary.
 
 “At these meetings representatives of Boeing confirmed that they were representing CFM International in respect of B737-800W aircraft and GE in respect of B777-2--LR and B777-300ER aircraft. Therefore, discussions with GE were held only in respect of B787-9 aircraft,” said the note sent by   to then PM.
 
 At the end of the note signed by Chidamabaram, it was said: “In pursuance of the above conclusions, the proposal contained in para 10 of the Note for EGOM has been approved and ministry of civil aviation authorized to direct Air India to place orders with Boeing and GE accordingly.” The Note under the head (x) said: “Air India will place the entire order for 68 aircraft with Boeing on firm basis.”
 
 On December 30, 2005, within six days of holding of final round of negotiations by EGOM and submitting the note, the   in its communication marked ‘most urgent’ said: “Prime Minister has seen the note and directed that the ministry of civil aviation may inform CCEA about the finalized transaction.”
 
 The same EGOM under chairmanship of Chidambaram had on September 6, 2005 held discussions with representatives of Airbus Industries and CFM International in the office of the finance minister. The minutes recorded the conclusions relating to cash concessions offered by Airbus and CFMI, capping of escalation cost, promise of investment in India, training facilities to be set up by Airbus in India and other technical details.
 
