DHARAMSALA: Just 58 runs shy of 400 runs in a four-Test series will make you believe   has been a reasonable success against Australia this summer. But another shoddy shot selection meant another missed opportunity on Sunday, and it would force the Indian opener to be more circumspect when he goes out to bat in the crucial second innings against Australia here.

 After battling through 123 balls, Rahul, batting on 60, tried to take on a venomous bouncer from  , but the execution was awry, resulting in an edge that was pouched by David Warner at mid-off. He admitted it was “horrible” the way he executed the pull shot.
 
 “It was a horrible execution. I thought I could take him on with no fielders back (at the boundary). The intent was right, but I can always sit here now and question the intent. In the middle, I thought I could take him on. Maybe in the second innings I can get him away. I will go out with a positive intent again,” Rahul sounded particularly disappointed on missing big scores in the first innings for the team's cause, while being reasonably satisfied personally. “As an opening batsman, I think it's my responsibility to try and get big scores in the first innings so that we don't have to bat again,” he said.
 
 After 64 and 10 in Pune, 90 and 51 in Bengaluru, 67 in Ranchi and now 60 in the first innings here in Dharamshala, Rahul was expectantly thrown a question if it's putting pressure on him. “Quite honestly, I am not regretting anything but obviously a little disappointed that I haven't been able to convert those starts and make big runs for my team,” he said Another half-century may have entered Rahul's career stats, but gazing through his scores this series, the Karnataka batsman would rue not being able to convert any of his five half-centuries into hundreds. However, he's not particularly bothered.
 
 “On the personal front, it hasn't been the worst series for me. I have got starts, batted really well. I have enjoyed batting in the middle. The Aussie bowlers haven't made it easy. Hopefully one good knock in the second innings might be the one I have been waiting for the whole series,” the right-hander said.
 
 'We are missing Virat'
 
 He is not averse to carrying drinks and is always egging his players along the boundary at the Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association (HPCA) Stadium here, but the Indian team continues to miss its regular skipper   in this series-decider.
 
 “We are missing Virat Kohli, somebody we have played under and who is a huge influence on everybody in the team,” KL Rahul said Sunday. “He always sets great examples for us, leads from the front. His aggression and energy is obviously something that would have been really good for us,” he added.
 
 The Indian opener, though, was quick to point out that such instances turn into opportunities for others.
 
