GURUGRAM:   in   and its nearby areas have not been functional for more than four years but repeated complaints by the residents are falling on deaf ears. 

 The authorities had repaired the lights once but it was only a temporary solution. The lights soon stopped fuctioning again.
 
 Sector 56 is considered an upscale residential area but residents find it difficult to venture out after sundown as roads and even the parks are dark. Pedestrians have to be careful while walking and many of them carry sticks for safety reasons.“We generally go for a walk at the park which is between Sector 56 and Sector 55. One of the stretches on that route is so dark that we are scared of being robbed ,” said Vinay Kumar, who lives in GAIL apartments in sector 56.
 
 A lot of people in the area have also complained about how the presence of stray dogs makes matter worse. “I go for my walks with a stick in my hand because in the absence of the lights one doesn’t want to be bitten by a dog,” said Prabhat Kumar Dubey, a businessman. “ We had taken up the matter with the local councillor after which streetlights were repaired, only to again malfunction,” he added.
 
 RL Gupta, president of the GAIL apartments resident association, said, “The streetlight problem is recurring.”
 
 The problem is worse for women as the absence of functional streetlights makes it impossible for them to walk down the roads, or even drive on them, in the evening. “I often go towards sectors 56 and 55 and take the road connecting sectors 53 and 56, there is not a single street light on that stretch,” said Ashima Badhan, who lives in Sector 53.
 
 She added multiple complaints to   officials had not helped. “I have tried calling he helpline number multiple times but no one answered,” said Badhan, who is a homemaker.
 
 MCG officials said they have recently sought a report from their call centre regarding the complaints about non functioning street lights which said that 96% complaints have been addressed and the rest are being addressed on priority basis.
 
 “MCG has already sent the proposal to the government for converting 58,000 street lights in the city to  . Once approved, street lights across the city will be functional,” said Rohit Yadav, joint commissioner, MCG
 
 
