SECUNDERABAD: The Army may have to part with about 10 acres of its prime land for the newly proposed alternative  . The alternative road will benefit  , who will lose access to   once they are closed. The cost of the land could be about Rs 50 crore.

 Though the exact extent of land required for the alternative road has not been assessed, a recent survey conducted by the   (GHMC) from Safilguda railway gate to RK Puram road over bridge along the periphery of the   (AOC) Centre revealed that at least 10 acres of land is needed for the project. A team of senior   officials took part in the survey for 15 days.
 
 The GHMC had to wait for nearly one year to conduct the survey in the absence of permission from the Local Military Authorities (LMA).
 
 The GHMC proposed to lay a six-lane new link road parallel to RK Puram ROB along the periphery of the AOC Centre periphery. Once the Safilguda railway gateEast Marredpally road is clo sed, traffic will be diverted through the proposed alternative road.
 
 “During the survey, we identified a few Defence-related assets including 10 Army residential quarters, a few big trees, water and sewer lines, septic tanks pertaining to the residential quarters, compound walls of a few defence establishments and cables pertaining to Defence Signal System. As per our survey, 10 acres of defence land will be required to lay the road,“ an official in the GHMC told TOI.
 
 The civic body allotted the work on 'detailed project report' (DPR) to a private consultancy. The DPR will be prepared on the defence-related assets, which are going to be affected on the 1.7 km stretch. The civic body needs to pary about Rs 40 crore towards compensation to the Army.
 
 The DPR will be ready in the first week of April. It will be forwarded to the municipal administration & urban development department for administrative sanction. Later, tenders will be floated.
 
 However, officials are silent on land-for-land compensation. The Gough Road will be closed after the extended deadline closes on May 31.
 
 TIMES VIEW:
 
 It has been about three years since commuters, using the Army roads, have been living in uncertainty. Now that Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation has completed its survey of the area and assessed what needs to be done to lay the alternative road, it should not waste time in executing the project. Especially with the closure of Gough Road only two months away.
 
