PANAJI:   on Sunday filed a non-cognizable case against Delhi chief minister and AAP convener   after the   directed the chief electoral officer to take necessary legal action against him for instigating the public to take  . Mapusa police registered a non-cognizable offence against Kejriwal after receiving a complaint from Bardez taluka returning officer Gurudas Desai, a senior police officer told TOI.

 The officer said they have registered case against Kejriwal for bribery and punishment for bribery under the Representation of the People Act and Indian Penal Code, respectively. The EC has also asked the Goa CEO to send a compliance report to the commission by 3pm on Tuesday.
 
 AAP questioned the election commission and said it was not acting in a fair manner and was harassing them on the orders of other political parties. “The matter has already been debated in the court of law and the court has said that Kejriwal’s comments don’t amount to bribery,” AAP’s Panaji candidate Valmiki Naik said.
 
 “The election commission should stand in front of a mirror and ask who is doing the real work of promoting ethical voting. The EC is itself worried that if they don’t tow a political party’s line, they won’t get money to buy teddy bears for adult ladies. All the parties are buying votes and Arvind Kejriwal highlighted that,” party volunteer and social activist Satish Sonakh told reporters here.
 
 Kejriwal at a January 8 rally at Mapusa had asked voters to ask for Rs 10,000 when rival parties offer them Rs 5,000, but to vote for AAP. The commission had already censured him on January 20 for violating the provisions of the model code of conduct and “expected him to be more circumspect in public utterances during election time”. Kejriwal, in his reply, had said he was not abetting bribery by appealing to voters to accept money from any party but to vote in favour of ‘jharu’—AAP.
 
 “Further, you have stated that the commission is encouraging bribery by refraining you from uttering such statements. These submissions being baseless and scurrilous are totally unjustified in the light of the provisions of law on bribery and are not acceptable to the commission,” the EC said in the letter.
 
 The commission said as Delhi chief minister and “star campaigner of AAP in Goa”, Kejriwal was expected to conduct his campaigns in a “law abiding manner so as to be a role model for others to emulate, but he has on several occasions violated the provisions of model code of conduct by breaking his assurances to EC given during legislative assembly election of Delhi 2015”.
 
 The EC also directed Kejriwal not to indulge in making any further statement, which directly or indirectly instigates the voters to take money or inducement in any form by any party or any person or indulge in any form of electoral offence or corrupt practices. “The commission will be constrained to take stern action against you in case it is noticed that you continue to make similar statements in future,” the EC said in a separate letter to Kejriwal.
 
