LUCKNOW: From marketing to law and business to management, candidates who filed their nominations on Tuesday have varied educational qualifications. 

 While Samajwadi Party's candidate from Lucknow north Abhishek Mishra holds a PhD in strategy and marketing from University of Cambridge, UK, Akhilesh loyalist Anurag Singh has completed a course in business management from IIM-Kolkata. Singh, contesting on a Congress ticket from Lucknow East as part of the tie-up between the two parties, also has a PhD from Jiwaji University, Gwalior. 
 
 BJP candidate from Sarojininanagar Swati Singh, the wife of former BJP leader Dayashankar Singh, has a postgraduate degree in law. Abdul Maroof Khan, Congress's candidate from Lucknow Central, has a BA degree from SHIATS deemed university. Mohammed Rehan, SP's candidate from Lucknow West, is a commerce graduate from  . 
 
 Anurag's affidavit shows that he and his wife have art collections worth Rs 70,000 and are owners of three SUVs. These include a Land Cruiser (worth Rs 10 lakh), Prado (Rs 14.5 lakh) and Pajero Sports (Rs 28 lakh). 
 
  On the contrary, Swati Singh uses a two-wheeler for commuting. Abhishek Mishra doesn't own a vehicle but his wife Swati, an entrepreneur, has a Chevrolet Optra Elite. 
 
 When it comes to gold ornaments, Swati's husband Dayashankar posses a diamond ring worth Rs 2 lakh while Rehan has no jewellery at all. On the other hand, Maroof and his wife Faujia Khan posses gold jewellery worth Rs 23 lakh. 
 
 Swati's husband Dayashankar, a former deputy chief of BJP's UP unit who was expelled for allegedly using derogatory words against BSP chief Mayawati, owns a revolver worth Rs 85,000.
 
 Anurag has two firearms-a pistol worth Rs 2.5 lakh and a revolver costing Rs 3 lakh. Abhishek and his wife Swati are owners of one revolver each, each costing Rs 80,000. Maroof also possess a revolver worth Rs 2 lakh.
 
 Maroof's affidavit shows he availed a loan of Rs 7 lakh from his wife. Rehan's says he is yet to get his property registered. 
 
