THANE: A 35-year-old man from Bhayander, found guilty of killing his wife, a French national (in pic), chopping her body and hiding the parts in a refrigerator in 2013, was convicted by a Thane district court on Wednesday. The sentence will be announced on Thursday.

 Thane district court judge Mridula Bhatia found the accused, Girish Pote, guilty of offences under the Indian Penal Code sections 302 for murder and 201 for disappearance of evidence. When asked what sentence should be awarded to him, Pote remained silent. Public prosecutor Bhuleshwar Hinge pressed for capital punishment.
 
 Hinge told the court that on December 3, 2013, Pote killed his wife,   (33) and chopped her body into pieces. He then hid the parts in the fridge. The crime came to light after Pote broke down before a cousin, Nitin Gadre, and confessed to it. Gadre, in turn, informed the police.
 
 The judge held that the prosecution had proved beyond reasonable doubt the charges levelled against Pote, who was jobless for six months at the time of the crime but was earlier employed at a mall as a garments showroom manager. The couple met at the mall as Pathak too was employed a sales executive in one of the shops.
 
 Pathak’s mother was a French musician and her father Indian. The family moved back to France in 2009 and Pathak got a job as an event management executive in that country. She returned to India a few months later after her mother’s death. Hinge said Pathak married Pote on June 20, 2011.
 
 Pathak had nearly Rs 2 crore in savings. The couple lived in her mother’s 14th floor flat in   in Bhayander, opposite Golden Nest police chowki. Pathak learned that Pote was involved with a bar girl and had bought her jewellery worth over Rs 40 lakh. Pathak told Pote that she wanted sell the flat and go back to France with their son, then aged two. “After being jobless for months, he had begun to live off his wife’s   and did not wanted to lose her. He also wanted her property,” the court was informed by the prosecutor.
 
 Four days before the crime, Pote sent their son to a relative’s place in Thane. On the fateful day, Pote convinced Pathak that he supported her decision to go back to France. Both had a meal together, after which he went to a mall and bought some knives and returned home to kill her. “He hid the   in the fridge,” said the prosecutor. 
 
 While four body parts, including the head, were plastered with cellophane tape and kept in the fridge, one more was found hidden in the bedroom.
 
 After Gadre, a Dahisar resident, told cops of the crime, they laid a trap for him at a garden nearby. They accompanied Pote and Gadre to the flat. On reaching the flat, cops began to videotape everything, right from opening of the door to being led to the fridge and the bedroom where the body parts were found.
 
 In her order, Judge Bhatia said, “The circumstances proved above are of a conclusive nature and tendency so clinching that they exclude every possible hypothesis except that the accused and the accused alone is the author of the said crime.”
 
 The judge further said that witnesses may lie but not circumstances. “The circumstances in this case are of such an unimpeachable character and supported by clinching technical evidence of such a magnitude that the conclusion seems irresistible that the prosecution has succeeded in establishing the charge of murder against the accused beyond any reasonable doubt.”
 
 
