While there are plenty of places where you can visit during this time of the year, there is nothing more relaxing and invigorating than a waterfall. There is something really amazing about visiting places that are known for their renowned waterfalls. They are ideal since they make your holiday relaxing and rejuvenating. These places also offer exciting activities and adventure sports that you can indulge in and make the most of your trip. Read on to know about some of these destinations. 

 
 
 This waterfall is situated in the   district of Kerala. One needs to hold their breath, since the panoramic fall of the water is 330 foot wide and the water gushes down with full force. If you visit this place during monsoon, the waterfall seems more beautiful since the clouds come down making the view even more scenic. 
 
 
 
 A land where incessant rainfalls, this place is a traveller’s haven. Known to be the third largest waterfall in India, this waterfall is located on an island called Nangkhunaum. However, visiting this waterfall is no mean meat and one has to take a boat. However, the ride becomes quite adventurous during monsoon since the currents get too strong. 
 
 
 
 Known as the most majestic waterfall in the country, the Chitrakoot waterfall is 520 foot wide and is spread across a horseshoe cliff. The water is muddy unlike the others and so travellers are asked not to go too near the water. However, you can stand next to it. 
 
 
 
 Far from the beaches and the tourist hotspots in Goa is the Dudhsagar Falls. This waterfall is a part of the   and is something that the tourists wait to see during the monsoon. But one has to be careful since the area gets too slippery. 
 
 
 
 Situated near Vasai and   (areas close to Mumbai), the Tungareshwar watefall is sorrounded by heavy forests and is often frequented by city people over the weekends. You can also go for trekking or climb on the nearby rocks. 
 
 
 
 If you do not wish to go too far, you can just travel to   where Bhivpuri waterfall is located. It is surrounded by lush greenery and mountains on both sides of the fall. The area also allows you to camp on the vast stretches of green nearby. The waterfall is about 20 feet high and is only accessible during the monsoon from June to mid-September. However, July and August are believed to be the best months to visit this place. Waterfall rapelling is also conducted here. 
 
 
 
 
