''Veteran theatre, television and film actor  , best known for his performances in Shatranj Ke Khilari, Junoon and Kranti, passed away aged 67. The renowned actor and Padma Shri awardee, who had been battling stage four skin cancer, died 
  night at his residence in Mumbai. The actor was diagnosed with skin cancer last year and was treated for the same, but earlier this month he suffered a relapse.
An Indian actor of American descent, Alter was born to American Christian missionary parents in Mussoorie in 1950. Alter was working as a teacher in a school in Jagadhri, Haryana, when he was bitten by the acting bug after watching Rajesh Khanna-Sharmila Tagore's Aradhana. The actor soon joined Film and Television Institute of India in Pune, where he studied acting from 1972 to 1974, and graduated with a gold medal. Alter made his film acting debut in 1976, with Ramanand Sagar's directorial venture Charas, which starred Dharmendra and Hema Malini in lead role. His next and one his most celebrated films was  's Shatranj Ke Khilari (1977), based on Munshi Premchand's short story of the same name. It was followed by  's Junoon (1979), Manoj Kumar's Kranti (1981) and Raj Kapoor's Ram Teri Ganga Maili (1985). Though Alter was one of the finest actors of his era, he was stereotyped in   as the perennial British man. On television, Alter worked in popular shows like Junoon, Zabaan Sambhalke, Bharat EK Khoj, Shaktimaan, Captain Vyom and Yahaan Ke Hum Sikandar. He was last seen on TV in Rishton Ka Chakravyuh. Alter was closely involved in theatre throughout his career. He co-founded Motley Productions with Naseeruddin Shah and Gilani in 1979. Alter’s prominent stage works include the two-and-a- half-hour-long solo play in Urdu, Maulana, Babur Ke Aulaad, Lal Qile Ka Aakhri Mushaira, Ghalib Ke Khat,Teesveen Shatabdi, Copenhagen, In Ghalib In Delhi and the theatrical adaptation of William Dalrymple's City Of Djinns.
 A cricket enthusiast, Alter was also a sports journalist and was the first person to interview   for TV, before his debut as a cricketer for India. The actor was awarded Padma Shri in 2008 for his services in the field of arts and cinema. His last film was Sargoshiyan with Alok Nath and Farida Jalal. PTI
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 I have known Tom Alter for many years, since the time he was a schoolkid. We both grew up in Doon and though I was older than him we shared an amazing
 bond. We both shared a love for cinemas and would often go to watch movies together. This year, he also wrote an intro for the 60th edition of my first book The Room On The Roof, which had come out in 1950s when he was a small boy. We would not meet each other very often, but our relationship was very strong. He was a very loyal and helpful friend. It is really sad that he has been snatched away so early from us, especially when he still had so much to offer
 
 
 
 
  
  
 Earlier this year, we started rehearsing for a play called Noor Jahan. We had done three readings and he was sick at that time as well. But he did not tell us anything, he said that he had a surgery, and that is the reason why he had a bandage on one of his fingers- 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 I met him for the first time during Virasat. I was a volunteer there and after that I met him at many events in Mussoorie, Doon and Bombay. Every time I would meet him, he would explain to me the importance of honing skills as a theatre artist. Woh bas dikhte angrez thay par dil se poore Hindustani thay. Jis tarah se woh Urdu bolte thay, bahut kam log bol paate hain. He was a guide and inspiration for me who will be missed a lot.- 
 
 '
 
  
  
 
 Once, when he was in Doon, he came to a cafe for dinner where we were performing that night. I was speaking about true love on the mic and he said in a fun way, 'humari umar walo ko tum kya seekhaoge true love ke bare mein?' He recited a lot of his poems after that as we played music for him in the background. His voice and the way he recited the poems was mesmerizing. He was full of energy and gelled so well with all the youngsters at the venue. His death is a great loss for every artist who has ever been associated with him in any way.- 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Quality Bakery, one of the oldest bakeries in the city. When I told him that they will shut the bakery soon, he had tears in his eyes. He shared his memory of going to the bakery and eating samosa when he was a kid. He also told me that he would hang out at the bakery with his friends after playing cricket at Parade Ground. He had many memories of Doon to share with me. His death is a big loss for all of us in Doon. - 
 
 
 
  
  
 I remember meeting him three years ago when he had come to   Nature Festival for the first time. He recited some of his poems at the event and because he had spent his childhood in Rajpur, he was overwhelmed to be a part of the festival. His poem on the Jhari Pani trail left everyone in the audience touched. That night we even went for dinner at a city cafe in Rajpur where he sang and danced with a local band. His death has left us all in shock and we are surely going to miss him a lot. –-
 
 
 
 
  
  
 Working with Tom Altar has been one of the best experiences of my life. I worked with him in a film called Life Goes On. Though we did not have many scenes together, whenever he was around, he was really generous to us and was very humble. Unki Urdu sun kar aur unka play dekh kar main fida ho gayi thi un par. On his visit to Doon, he stayed in our hotel and we had dinner together where we discussed the scope of theatre in the state. His death is a sad news for every theatre lover.- 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 I have worked with Sir Tom Alter in a film called Life Flows. The film was shot in Doon and Mussoorie. That is when I realised that he was not just an amazing actor, but also a wonderful person. I met him twice or thrice after that at different events. He would always talk about theatre and acting. I remember when he had performed the play Maulana in Doon I was left spellbound after watching it.-
 
 
 
  
  
 It is a really sad news for every theatre lover who has grown up seeing his work. We were planning a project with him for which we were in talks with him and his team. There was no formal agreement done, but things were almost finalised. It is sad that we will not be able to work on that project now. We all have grown up seeing his work and we will miss him a lot. – 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 It was in the initial years of Virasat festival, sometime in 2003 or 2004, when I met him for the first time. He had come to perform his play Maulana. It was not possible for us to create the kind of set he wanted as we were low on budget. So instead of throwing tantrums, he picked up random props and performed the play. I still remember how mesmerised the audience was to see him perform for two hours. It was like a one-man show. - 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 Tom Alter was a very dear friend and I am really taken aback by his death. He used to often visit my school and meet students who were into theatre. The best part about him was that despite being famous and being so well-travelled, he was always connected to his roots back here in Mussoorie and Doon. He wanted to work for his state and was an amazing storyteller. We had a lot of plans to work together, especially to create cultural centres in Doon where artist from across the state or country could connect to each other and work together." 
 
 
