The club isn’t the best place to find a lover,’ sings Ed Sheeran, but discerning music lovers will agree that it also isn’t the best place to go looking for an intimate music experience. What with people’s banter and the clinking of glasses taking centre stage, and the music being relegated to the background.  But, what if you could head to someone’s house, or a garden, maybe, for a more intimate musical experience? Add to that, the chance to meet new people and chat with the artistes, while they tune their guitars for the next song. If this idea excites you, Sofar Sounds (or ‘Songs from a Room’), a global music community that gets artistes and listeners together in unconventional settings, is your best bet. And Pune now has its own chapter of the global collective. 
	
	
	
	
	
	 













 Last Sunday, discerning music lovers met up at TIFA, a hotel-turned-art studio in Camp, to listen to a line-up they didn’t know. The venue, a heritage hotel in flux, was also made known to the select audience just hours before. This was Sofar Pune’s second meet (the first one was conducted at furniture studio in Mundhwa in February). Far from the chatty club crowds, this rendezvous between artistes and listeners was more personal, with people turning up for nothing but the music.  Not everyone gets to attend a Sofar concert. Filmmaker Varun Mehra, who spearheads the Pune chapter along with entrepreneur Varun  Mukerji, says, “These concerts are free, but there’s only a limited number of people who can attend. Many requests come in, but the invitation is only extended to a select few.” There’s also a decorum that guests are expected to adhere to. “They need to arrive on time and sit through the entire performance. The set-up is largely informal, but complete attention is given to the music – there’s no chatting or texting in between,” Mehra adds. Bénédicte Le Bris, who curates and organises concerts, feels lucky to have been selected for both the pop-up concerts. “Instead of putting up a show, promoting it and hoping that people will come, here’s a format that has more takers than the space available. Your happiness really knows no bounds when you get a mail from the organisers saying that you’re selected,” quips Bénédicte, who believes that this works well in creating the private ethos of the show. 
	
	
	
	
	
	 













 Here, music and its universality is given due respect. Mehra says, “There’s no restriction on style and genre, but we prefer if the artiste can deliver a set for a small audience.” Besides scouting for venues, the shows are carefully curated. “It works both ways; we have many applications coming in from musicians, but we also approach some. We visit gigs and check artiste profiles online, maintaining a bank of their work,” he adds. Whether they’d like to perform the way they’ve recorded, or prefer to do a rendition, is left entirely to the artiste. “Artistes are encouraged to improvise and they usually come with a certain plan in mind. It’s interesting to see how the audience responds in the set-up,” says Mehra.  Singer-songwriter Akashita, who performed at the first meet, shares, “This concept is different from the other gigs we do in the city. Here, the audience comes solely for the music while knowing that the artists have been thoroughly vetted by the organisers.” Musician Vinay Kaushal, of the city-based fusion-funk act Empty café fame, adds, “The community is global, so playing for the collective is exciting. The fact that the format restricts attendance makes the experience very personal. The curation of three artistes at each show also keeps the line-up interesting.” Vinay performed at the second session. The Pune chapter follows the global format of Sofar. Special care is taken to keep the venue and the line-up under wraps, until just a day before the concert. “The people who generally get booked at venues for live gigs are those that are well-known in the circuit. Smaller, upcoming artistes hardly get noticed. Besides the surprise element it brings, keeping the line-up a secret, makes sure that audience doesn’t apply based on who’s playing. We believe that every artiste deserves equal opportunity and respect. Hence, there is an equal chance for upcoming musicians to present their work before an audience that has no preconceived notions,” says Mehra. 
	
	
	
	
	
	 













 Each gig features three artistes/bands. “All artistes need not play the same style and this works well for the audience. After one set, there’s a short break, post which, the next set can either be a continuation of style or something completely different. The venue, artistes and how their music comes together collectively, determines the line-up in general,” informs Mehra, adding that the collective’s next concert is slated for April 30. Mehra adds that one could apply to host a Sofar gig at their space, be it a living room, or even a garden. Sofar Sounds was started in London in March 2009. Since then, the collective has spread to other countries, with more than 300 cities having communities today. In India, it is active in Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai and Bengaluru, with Hyderabad and Pune joining the list recently. In Pune, there are other platforms providing similar experiences, namely Listening Room and BYOH Live (Bring Your Own Headphones). For more information about Sofar Sounds, visit: https://www.sofarsounds.com/pune 
	
	
	
	
	
	 













 (Pics: Aarish Bhathena and Ron Bezbaruah)