JODHPUR: While two victims of the firing incident that took place in broad daylight here on Thursday are recovering, police are yet to nab the accused.

 The accused identified as   and   continue to remain out of the reach of the police despite an intensive hunt at all the possibility hideouts.
 
  said that different police teams have been constituted to nab both of them but no breakthrough has been received so far.
 
 While these accused have been keeping the police on its toes, the incidents of firing are becoming a routine in Jodhpur with over half a dozen such incidents in Jodhpur in this year only.
 
 But police has been invariably failing to keep control on this unabated and frequent use of fire arms in the city by almost every criminal, known to the police.
 
 In 2011 March, a crackdown on the illegal country made fire arms by the then SP   had led to seizure of over 50 firearms both country made and foreign make from various persons and had arrested over two dozen criminals involved in selling and purchasing of the weapons.
 
 According to a police official, most of these arms were seized when they reached Jodhpur for delivery, mostly from MP and this could be possible due to the strong intelligence of the police and interrogation of the criminals.
 
 The situation has gone worse to the extent that the criminals from other states have started making their presence in Jodhpur and targeting whos who of the city but inspite of the incidents, police have no plan of crack down on the flow and use of these fire arms by the criminals of Jodhpur.
 
 In one of the most shacking incident of firing, which had taken place on March 17, wherein a doctor and a travel company owner had been targeted, intentions had been clearly expressed by the criminals on March 4, when they reached the office of the travel company owner wilding pistol but he was fortunate that the weapon could not fire and the assailants fled.
 
 Instead of investigating the case, police kept terming the incident as a fake one stating that this was stage managed by the travel company owner himself as he wanted to have a fire arm license.
 
