PUNE:   Mutka Tilak on Thursday told municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar to conduct a thorough inquiry into the poor condition of   and general lack of cleanliness at the Yeshvantrao Chavan   in Kothrud. 

 Tilak said the issue was serious and she has decided to tackle it on top priority. “Those responsible for the poor condition of toilets and overall cleanliness will face stern action,” the mayor said.
 
 The unclean auditorium, grime and stench in the auditorium were reported by TOI in its July 11 edition, highlighting the problems faced by visitors and actors. The issue had come to the fore after actors Sumeet Raghavan and Mukta Barve posted photographs of the grime on the social media platforms showing unclean toilets in the auditorium. In their posts, the actors also expressed displeasure about the state of facilities and broken doors. The posts received huge response from people who recounted their own experiences. 
 
 The Yeshvantrao Chavan auditorium is a property of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the civic administration is responsible for its maintenance.
 
 Tilak said steps would be taken to ensure cleanliness, besides taking action against those responsible for the situation. 
 
 Similar issues of unclean and filthy toilets at Pt Jawaharlal Nehru auditorium on Ghole Road were highlighted a few days ago. Tilak said the cleanliness work at the civic auditoria has been outsourced. The officials will conduct the inquiry and will submit a detailed report, she said.
 
 Standing committee chairman Murlidhar Mohol, BJP leader Sandip Khardekar and local corporators, accompanied by party workers, visited the Yashwantrao Chavan Natyagruha on Thursday and cleaned up the toilets and other areas.
 
 Mohol appraised commissioner Kunal Kumar of the sorry state of affairs and sought action against the people responsible for the upkeep of the auditorium. He said, “Pune is the cultural capital of the state and such apathy is a blot on the city’s reputation.” 
 
 Mohol also said that from now, the upkeep and maintenance of the civic auditoria will be outsourced to companies that are capable of doing a good job.
 
 TOI had reported that the stench of urine, broken toilet doors, grimy window panes and no drinking water were a but a few things audiences can look forward to when they come to watch plays at the Yashwantrao Chavan Natyagruha .
 
 Prakash Amarale, the administrative officer of the auditorium, had then said the theatre was a bit unclean and cited lack of necessary manpower to maintain the facility properly. 
 
