NEW DELHI: Continuing their agitation against the   Gazette notification, some 3,500 JNU students turned up for a ‘referendum’ on the matter. The regulations, which entail a reduction in the number of seats for PhD and MPhil courses, have met with massive resistance at JNU. The campus has seen relay hunger strikes by students with affiliation to different political groups. 

 On Tuesday,   members visited various centres of the campus, shouting slogans and exhorting students to come out and vote in the referendum, which they claim “is a testament to the democratic nature of JNU”.
 
 Vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar, however, sought to quell rumours that there would be a reduction in the number of seats. Kumar said   was implementing the UGC gazette notification, which was mandatory for all universities, and that schemes like deprivation points to help students from disadvantaged groups would continue.
 
 Denying any plans to reduce the number of seats for research programmes, Kumar said: “MPhil and PhD are research programmes. So, the number of students a particular faculty can guide is decided by UGC. The policy dates back to 2009, wherein a professor can guide eight, associate six and assistant four scholars. But in our university, there are some professors who have more than 25 PhD students under them. And, then, there are others who don’t have a single one. This imbalance is not good for quality of research.” He added: “What we are saying is that if a professor has more than 25 scholars, let the students continue and complete their PhD programme under his/her guidance. But if another professor has two instead of eight, then he/she can take six students.”
 
 Meanwhile, a statement by JNUSU president Mohit Pandey stated: “The JNU administration’s unilateral imposition of the UGC circular has been robustly resisted by students and teachers. The notification is not just another problematic circular but also a huge assault on inclusive higher education, in general, and JNU’s model of inclusive admission process, in particular.” Pandey claimed that the referendum was meant to “destroy JNU and higher education in the country”.
 
 ABVP member Saurabh Sharma accused JNUSU of “capitalising on the issue with new farcical moves, such as protests and referendum”. He added that a special status for JNU couldn’t be claimed. Sharma, however, said the ABVP “stands by the interests of the students and does believe that any gazette that is against their interests should be repealed if needed”. But this, he said, could be done “without creating a spectacle here at JNU.”
 
 
