With the   hearing the constitutional validity of   in India, the legal rights of Muslim women has taken centre stage. While all agree that the practice is not a valid form according to Islamic law, there is very little debate on the creation of an alternative to it. 

 Islamic law is modern in its approach to the institution of marriage as theoretically it stresses the autonomy and free consent of parties. The concept of divorce in Islamic law is akin to irretrievable breakdown where spouses do not have to find fault with each other in order to end their marriage. But its practice in India is highly discriminatory, giving the man the right to divorce his wife at will in the form of triple talaq or Talaq ul Biddat, even though there are other forms divorces. Such a talaq when stated thrice in the presence of two witnesses becomes a valid divorce. The wife’s consent is irrelevant as even her presence is not required. If the wife wants to end the marriage and the husband refuses to give a talaq, she has to initiate proceedings under the Dissolution of the Muslim Marriages Act. 
 
 Apart from the trauma and economic devastation that triple talaq causes to women, such divorces also have a complex legal impact. In 1985, the Supreme Court in the   case held that section 125 of CrPC (Code of Criminal Procedure) that provides for maintenance to wives including divorced wives was applicable to Muslims and did not violate Islamic law. The argument put forth by the husband in the case was that directing a man to maintain his divorced wife was prohibited under Islamic law. In order to negate the impact of this judgment, the Centre enacted The Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Divorce) Act. Under this Act a husband is liable to maintain his divorced wife for a period of three months in a reasonable and fair manner, after which she is entitled to seek maintenance from her heirs or if there is no one to maintain her, from the Wakf Boards. The husband is completely absolved from his obligation to provide for his wife. 
 
 In order to subvert the obligation to pay maintenance to their wives, there are many instances when men pronounce triple talaq as soon as the wife files for maintenance. A cheque is often sent for a pittance claiming that this is the maintenance for three months. It is then argued in court that as talaq has been pronounced the wife cannot claim maintenance, making it a fait accompli. Some women challenge the validity of such talaqs by filing declaratory suits on the basis of a judgment of the Supreme Court in Shamim Ara vs State of UP (case) which held that evidence has to be adduced to show that a talaq has been pronounced. But these are few and far between. 
 
 Muslim women are also confronted with the onerous task of having to file multiple proceedings under different statutes in different courts unlike women of other religious communities. A married woman can initiate a maintenance case under Section 125 CrPC. If she is divorced she has to initiate proceedings under The Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Divorce) Act. If she seeks custody of her children she has to initiate her case under the Guardian and Wards Act. And if she wants to dissolve her marriage, she has to initiate proceedings under the Dissolution of the Muslim Marriage Act. In areas where there are no family courts these proceedings have to be filed in different courts making her run from pillar to post.
 
 Access to justice in the best of times is difficult for women who are discriminated against in the system. In the case of Muslim women there is double discrimination. The only legislation under which they can seek some recourse in a consolidated form is the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act.
 
 Prohibiting triple talaq can only be the beginning for further reforms. Many countries governed by Islamic law have legislations that prohibit the same. In Pakistan and Bangladesh divorces are governed by the Family Law Ordinance that does not recognise triple talaq and provides for mediation and reconciliation. In India too one way of approaching this would be to amend the Dissolution of Muslim Marriages Act 1939, making it gender neutral and having provisions in it for interim maintenance, alimony, custody of children and other rights incidental to marriage taking the principles of Islamic law. 
 
 
