A trip to Connaught Place or Janpath feels incomplete if you don't buy some trinkets or accessories from the street markets. From jhumkas to tote bags, clothes and even makeup, you can find everything in these markets and most of them are copies of products by big brands that you see in the city's malls. 

  However, on our recent visit to CP's Inner Circle, we were quite surprised to find that the most popular items in the street-side shops were cosmetics from  's brand! The original products from the youngest Kardashian sister's brand are only available online. And owning these lip and nail colours will burn a big hole in your pocket and take over a week to get delivered. But one trip to CP, and you can buy all these at a fraction of the original price. Cosmetics from other major luxury brands and collections by celebs like   and   are also quite popular. 
 
  While the vendors say that the products are original and "customs ka maal," there is no way to check the authenticity of these products. But that doesn't seem to be stopping Dilliwallahs.
 
  
  
 
  
 The street vendors that sell Kylie's makeup products may not even know about the Kardashian sister, but ask them about the product, and they'll say, "Madam, which shade do you want? Koko (inspired by Kylie's sister  ), Kourt (Kourtney Kardashian) or Posie? Candy sabse achha hai, par abhi woh khatam ho gaya hai," says Raj Singh, a vendor who runs his stall in CP's B Block. He tells us that it has been two months since he first got these products. "We've had some leading makeup brands for the last one year but we got Kylie's products only two months back. Our customers love the brand and its shades, which is why we keep running out of stock," he adds. 
 
  This is probably the reason why Raj's makeup stall is flooded with products from Kylie's makeup range and he's confident enough to say, "Aap bolo toh kya chahiye? Gloss, eye shadow, fake eyelashes and compact, yeh sab hain humaare paas. Ek baar loge toh firse aaoge." 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  Another vendor, Vijay, in E Block, also sells copies, which he calls "Customs ka maal". The shop has products from some of the leading makeup brands, including ranges rolled out by celebs like Ellie Goulding, Mariah Carey and of course, Kylie Jenner. "Nothing is fake here. Yeh saara customs ka maal hai. Aapko doosra shade chahiye ho toh hum mangwa denge, par aapko ye maal India mein local shops pe nahi milega," says Vijay. Another vendor, Kishor, also has his stall of 'branded' makeup products between the inner circle of CP's A and B Block. To sell the makeup products that are on display, his marketing strategy is just one line that he says out loud to passers-by and his potential customers, “Ek baar aaoge toh baar baar aaoge." When we ask him if there are any side-effects of these products, he says, "We have been selling these products for the last two months and people love them. Kuch kharaab hota toh log bol nahin dete abhi tak?"
 
  
  
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar
 
 
  
 While most of the products from Kylie, Mariah Carey and Ellie Goulding's makeup ranges are not even available in India, Delhiites were, of course, surprised to see these products being sold at such low rates. Kajal Chauhan, a housewife, who was buying a lipstick from one of these vendors, says, "I have never bought a lipstick from such a big brand for such low rates. I always end up spending a lot on makeup, but this seems like perfect to me. Why will I spend Rs2,000 on a lipstick when I can get it here for Rs200?"
 
  While we were bargaining about the price for a Kylie gloss, a woman in her early 30s was quick to ask, "Is this a good brand? Can I also buy? They have a lip liner also in this box, I think I should also buy this." The vendors say, "Kylie is really popular these days. Our customers keep demanding Candy and Koko shades. Stock itni jaldi khatam ho jata hai tabhi jaldi-jaldi lana padta hai."
 
  
  
 
