Goddess Saraswati, known to be the deity of arts and education will be invoked with colourful rituals and festivities in various households and educational institutions in the city today. Here’s the lowdown on the celebrations…

 
 
 The   celebrations at   and Junior College is completing 100 years today and the rituals performed at this community puja are quite grand. “More than 2000 people, including students from our school, are attending the puja today. Pushpanjali will be offered to the goddess from 10am onwards. The celebrations are not complete without savouring bhog. It includes khichuri, labda (mixed veg), payesh, jujube and tomato chutney. In every dish, jaggery made of dates is added,” informs principal of the school, Alok Sinha. He adds, “The idol of Maa has been brought to the city from Kumortuli, Kolkata, and the puja is being performed by a purohit, who has come all the way from Bengal.”
 
 
 
 Saraswati puja is being performed across the city homes today, where rituals are given a personal touch. Poet Tapati Dey, who is all set to celebrate the puja at home with her family and friends, says, “Saraswati Puja brings back many fond memories. I am decorating a special aasan today with colourful ribbons where the goddess is being placed with utmost reverence. Also, I am making an alpana with rice flour paste. Since the puja is the onset of Vasant (spring), I am wearing a saffron and yellow taant sari today. The youngsters of our family are offering their books, pens, colours, and musical instruments to Maa to seek knowledge and wisdom. Later in the afternoon, we have organised a special cultural programme at Sheela Nagar, wherein I will be reciting Rabindranath Tagore's poetry and Nazrul geet.” 
 
 
 
 The Puja also offers an opportunity for friends and family to meet and enjoy the day to the fullest. Executive director of technical department MOIL, Deepankar Shome, says, “My family and I are attending the puja at my uncle’s home in the city, which is a 60 years old puja. The ladies of our family are preparing a lot of delicacies at home and all the family members plan to enjoy and seek blessings from Maa.”
 
