SHIMLA: National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh along with   ( ) to file complete report within three weeks in furtherance to its May 19 order to prevent, control, rejuvenate and restore Yamuna river. In case of default, each state would be liable to pay an amount of Rs 50,000.

  is highly polluted by industrial effluents, sewage and other waste.
 
 Principal bench of NGT headed by its chairperson Justice Swatanter Kumar also directed the counsel appearing for Delhi Jal Board to follow the instructions and submit the status report with regard to execution of work in furtherance to its judgement dated January 13, 2015.While granting last opportunity to Delhi Jal Board for this purpose, Tribunal said, the amicus curiae may submit outline for the directions that are required to be passed presently to the judgement of the Tribunal dated January 13, 2015.
 
 On January 13, 2015, NGT decided to set up a committee to chalk out plans to cleaning up Yamuna river and said, people who would throw garbage or debris into it, would be penalised.
 
 During May 19 hearing this year, NGT directed the states of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana besides Uttar Pradesh Jal Nigam and Namami Gange (Ministry of Water Resources) to submit their proposed plan for prevention, control, rejuvenation and restoration of Yamuna river in this stretch.
 
 It them directed to submit the district wise plan keeping in view the drains that join river Yamuna within six weeks.
 
 Tribunal had also directed the concerned authorities along with the CPCB to conduct ground study in relation to number of drains, flow, quality and quantity of effluents in the drain and the feasibility of establishing of sewerage treatment plant and combined effluent treatment plant, if necessary .
 
 It had also sought the complete and comprehensive list of the polluting industries falling on the banks of the river and in the catchment area.
 
 
 
 
 River Yamuna, a major tributary of River Ganga, originates from Yamunotri Glacier near Bandarpunj peaks in the Mussorie Range at an elevation of about 6,320 metres above mean sea level in Uttarkashi district of Uttarakhand. The catchment area of Yamuna covers parts of Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and the territory.
 
 
 
