GURUGRAM: In a startling revelation in the   case police sources have revealed that suspended former in-charge of arms licence branch inspector Jasmer Singh was involved in the running of a gun house in Gurugram that belongs to one of his relatives.

 Sources claimed Jasmer would make copies of   using his gun house as cover, and sell them to unsuspecting people in NCR for somewhere between Rs 20 -35 lakh. 
 
 Jasmer Singh has been absconding since he was suspended. Sources, though, said the cops are anticipating his arrest any time soon.
 
 “SIT has got some important evidence against inspector Jasmer Singh regarding his involvement with a city-based gun house. Investigations are on and action will be taken against him if he is found guilty,” said Sibas Kabiraj, joint commissioner of police.
 
 Investigations have revealed that whenever a new gun would be launched in Europe or America, Jasmer would ensure the new model would be available with him within the next 10 days. 
 
 Prima facie, it appears Jasmer got the guns copied in illegal arms factories based in Khurja and Bulandshahr.
 
 After the revealation, the SIT visited the gun house on Monday and took possession of certain records from it to compare with records found in the arms licence branch. During the raid, the SIT caught hold of the gun house owner, who claimed the guns he had in store were all legal. But he couldn’t furnish any documents to prove his claim. Police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar said SIT was investigating the matter from all angles.
 
 “Due to his alleged involvement in the case, the former in-charge of the licence branch, inspector Jasmer Singh, has been suspended and the SIT is probing his actual role in the scam. Inspector Virender Singh was found to have also been involved in the scam, and was arrested. The probe is on and we assure you persons found guilty won’t be spared,” added Khirwar.
 
 Last month,   unearthed a fake arms license scam and registered an FIR against the prime accused Manish Bhardwaj and his accomplice Mohan Lal, for allegedly getting fake licences for 15 firearms which had been renewed. 
 
 A probe by joint commissioner of police Sibas Kabiraj revealed that fake licenses were issued in connivance with staff of the joint commissioner office, agents and other departments.
 
  A total of six accused have been arrested in the scam, including sub-inspector Virender Singh. Four cops, including Jasmer Singh, have been suspended for their alleged involvement. Virender and main accused Bhardwaj alias Kala were produced in a city court today and were sent to judicial custody.
 
 
