CUTTACK:There's a ray of hope for patients with failed kidneys, who are unable to get a donor with matching blood group. The government-run   and Hospital's renal transplant unit is all set to start ABO incompatible kidney transplants. Presently, blood group matching between the donor and the recipient is necessary for kidney transplant. But the ABO incompatible kidney transplant can be performed even if the donor's blood group does not match with the recipient's. 

 Nephrologist Dr Chitta Ranjan Kar said that in incompatible transplants, the patient has to undergo a special treatment for a fortnight to remove antibodies. "The treatment is required to ensure that the recipient's body does not reject the transplanted kidney. The patient is injected a special drug to suppress antibody production and kept under observation for two to three weeks. Lower the level of antibodies in the recipient's blood, the risk of donor kidney's rejection also decreases," explained Kar. 
 
 He said the drug used in the procedure is expensive due to which the price of the renal transplant is expected to go up a little. "Due to blood group matching limitation, patients of kidney failure were deprived of transplants. The ABO incompatible procedure will be a boon for all such patients and we can save many lives. Very few government hospitals in the country are providing the treatment," said Dr  , head of renal transplant unit. 
 
 He said that two patients have been identified for the surgery and after necessary tests measures will be taken for the transplant. Authorities have plans to conduct the incompatible surgery within two months.
 
 So far, at least 122 patients have undergone renal transplant in SCB. The majority of the patients belong to   categories whose treatment expenses are borne by the state government under   (OSTF) scheme. 
 
 Doctors said presently renal transplant at   costs Rs 2 lakh to Rs 2.25 lakh but for an ABO incompatible transplant, patients will have to pay an additional Rs 1 lakh. The procedure at private hospitals costs around Rs 8 to Rs 10 lakh.
 
 "The government can provide up to Rs 3 lakh under OSTF. So the poor patients will not face any problem in undergoing the incompatible kidney transplant surgery at SCB," said Hota.
 
