
  is clearly the   of   - Annapurna Premier League - as, like the England allrounder who was picked up by Rising Pune Supergiant for Rs 14.5 crore, turning him the highest paid player in Indian Premier League (IPL) Season 10, the Budhwar Peth allrounder bagged the highest 4,250 points in the tournament's first-ever auction.
 
 Much like Stokes, the 28-year-old professional cricketer - who had a stint in English county cricket last year - would don the colours of   team that will compete with four others in the APL Season 4 on May 7.
 
 Last year, several professionals started their own cricket league matches among themselves, but going forward this year on the lines of the real IPL, they put 50-odd players on auction for five team owners.
 
 On April 4, 2016, Mirror had reported, In A League of Their Own, about APL Season 2 being played at one of the grounds in the Shivajinagar area. APL is a group of boys from different professions and their common spot to meet is at Annapurna tea shop near Siddheshwar Ghat opposite Congress Bhavan. Named after this tea shop, 'Annapurna Premier League', was formed last year and till now three seasons of this tournament - January 2016, April 2016 and December 2016 - have been played at a nearby ground of this shop.
 
 Chintan, who played till state level and has been training budding cricketers in the city round the year, told Mirror, "I am glad that I got the maximum points as on the day of auction (April 24), every owner was willing to get me in his team. But the organising committee was very professional and the process went smoothly. I am also the captain of our team, so I am confident to win the APL Season 4."
 
 Giving details of this year's auction, Sachin Dhole, owner of Annapurna tea stall and one of the members from the organising committee, told Mirror, "On April 24, we organised the auction at Siddheshwar Ghat where five team owners bid against each other to get the best players in their teams. We have a four-member organising committee. Each team will have nine players in the match and one reserve player. The five-over matches are played on half pitch with tennis ball."
 
 The APL Season 4 has five teams - GD's Gladiators, ST's Supergiant, SP's Warriors, Ace 11 and MP's Royals. Some names of these teams are initials of the team owners.
 
 "Each owner paid Rs 3,000 and they were given 10,000 points in return. We had done three categories of 50 players like A, B and C, as per their playing performance. In the A category, there were five players, in B there were 25 and C had 15 players. Each player was called in front of the team owners, then all of them bid for him, with the highest bidder getting the player to its team. Within 10,000 points only, every team owner has to purchase all the ten players," said Swapnil Thorwe, who works in a private bank, is one of the founder members of the group and now the owner of one of the teams.
 
 "Each player had also given Rs 200 per head as contribution to the organising committee. The remaining amount left after the tournament, with some amount added to it from our side, will be donated to a social NGO," added Thorwe.
 
 Tea shop to tourney
 
 Annapurna tea shop is located just next to the entrance gate of Siddheshwar Ghat in front of Congress Bhavan. There is a big open space in front of the shop on the road covered with the shade of various trees. These members, from the evening till late night make their 'katta' live with gossips, chats and various games. The real fun begins after 8 pm when there is maximum crowd at this katta, which goes on till late in the night.
 
