Steel minister   is upbeat about the prospects for the sector. In an interview to TOI, Singh says several global majors have shown interest to invest in the steel sector. Excerpts:

 What is the road ahead for the new steel policy? The thrust is on two areas. One, our consumption should increase and when consumption rises then production also will go up. In this year’s budget there is a provision for Rs 4 lakh crore for infrastructure and we believe that even if 10% of that is steel component such as Railways, national highways, shipping, ports, urban housing, affordable housing and priority for these projects is India-made steel, then the consumption will go up. We plan to increase steel consumption two-and-half times by 2030.
 
 
 
 SAIL will have to undergo total transformation. They will have to diversify from crude steel. They will have to raise the efficiency level and compete with the private sector.
 
 
 
 am not for manpower restructuring. If they have double the staff available in the private sector then they should at least raise the efficiency level. Pruning is not the solution. SAIL should go for diversification. Demand for alloys will rise. It should be a multifaceted corporation and not just be satisfied by producing crude steel.
 
 
 
 Yes. Our joint venture with Arcelor-Mittal is in the final stages and I hope it will click. This will help improve the situation in SAIL significantly.
 
 
 
 We will welcome foreign investment in transfer of technology.   is talking to us. Japan and South Korea’s ambassadors met me recently. They are keen to have some kind of partnership. India will emerge as a huge hub for the automobile sector. We would manufacture 28% of total cars made in the world.
 
 
 
 Nippon Steel, SAIL has had discussions. If they ( ) want to set up their own plants they can do it, they can bring in FDI. We are open to that also.
 
 
 
 The progress is slow. We have to appoint transaction advisers. The response has been low. We may have to advertise again.
 
 
 
 The way we ave structured our steel policy is that it would start yielding results if we are able to export 15-20% of our total production. This may not be visible now but should be possible in one or two years. We have laid the foundation. We are not only looking at the demand from within the country. I see demand rising between 5% and 8% and demand will also increase in neighbouring countries. The demand within the country will increase for the next 50 years and the next destination would be the neighbouring countries like Cambodia, Vietnam and then the African continent.
 
 
 
 The government’s guidance is a necessary component for an industry. If this ministry is not there then how would you think of imposing MIP (minimum import price), anti-dumping duty and articulating views of the sector with the commerce ministry.
 
