GURUGRAM: The two-wheeler industry in Gurugram is feeling the impact of demonetisation and labourers have been the worst hit.

 After around 351 contractual workers were “axed” by two-wheeler frames manufacturing company Omax Auto Limited from its Dharuhera plant on February 1, the aggrieved labourers approached the   to intervene in the matter. The workers alleged that the company had fired them right before it was to give them a raise. While the management has refuted the allegation, the labour department on Thursday asked the company to file its reply in the matter within a week. 
 
 The company terminated contracts with six contractors through whom it had hired around 351 workers, rendering them all jobless. The workers have alleged that the company had not paid them increased minimum wages since November 1, 2015. On January 30, the labour inspector finally instructed the company to pay the workers revised wages.
 
 Two days later, however, their contracts were terminated. The workers told additional labour commissioner Jaibir Arya on Thursday that the company has gone ahead and hired 50 more workers when it could instead have reinstated the ones whose   it had taken away.
 
 “The company is paying a salary of Rs 5,800 basic plus daily dearness allowance when the amount should be Rs7,600. The management has said that the matter was in high court and wages will not be increased till the court verdict is out,” said Jaspal Rana, union leader, Hind Mazdoor Sabha.
 
 “The management made the workers work overtime for a month and stocked the godowns with finished products. Later, instead of paying the workers an overtime allowance, the company sacked them. Many of the labourers who were fired had been working in the company for six to eight years and were expecting to be made permanent employees,” said PK Das, union leader, Omax Auto Limited.
 
 The management has, however, refuted all allegations. The company’s head for human resources K S Yadav told additional labour commissioner Jaibir Arya that the contractors were given a month’s notice on January 1 for termination of the contracts.
 
 Harmesh Singh, one of the contractors whose contract was terminated, said, “We will compensate the workers with Rs 1 to 1.50 lakh each and also give them jobs elsewhere. But they are not ready to bargain. They want to work at the same company even when it’s production has gone down. Omax is suffering losses.”
 
 The labour department has intervened and sought the management’s reply on the matter within seven days. “The company has been asked to submit a report on the procedure of retrenchment, re-employing of retrenched labour, minimum wages paid and agreement the labourers claim have been violated. The reply has to be submitted as per the Labour Act,” said Arya.
 
 
