tnn

 Edited
 
 Madurai: Millets are the solution to the declining cereal diversity in India and the farmers need to be encouraged to cultivate them in a larger area so as to reap the financial and nutritional benefits of millets, said Dr S Parvathi, Dean, Home Science College & Research Institute, TNAU, Madurai, on Friday.
 
 She was speaking at the inauguration of the national seminar on “Emerging Trends in Processing and Value Addition of Small Millets” organised as part of Madurai Symposium, a large scale biennial development event with focus on building resilience for sustainable development. She stressed the need for bringing out innovative food products using millets and the need for entry of many small enterprises in the value chain. 
 
 She said mainstreaming small millets in diet can only be achieved by increasing the area under cultivation of small millets and also by easier processing of the production.
 
 Experts said in India declining cereal diversity in diets is one of the key factors behind malnutrition, and wheat and rice were also the reason for the prevalence of non-communicable diseases like diabetes. Bringing back small millets into the mainstream diets could be an answer. Small millets include finger, little, proso, barnyard, foxtail and kodo millets. Performing well in marginal environments, they have superior nutritional properties, including high micro-nutrient and dietary fibre content, and low glycemic index. However, there has been a drastic decline in the production and consumption of small millets in the last few decades, mainly due to limited productivity, high drudgery involved in their processing, negative perceptions of small millets as a food for the poor and policy neglect when compared to other crops.
 
 To mainstream small millets in regular diets, DHAN Foundation implements an action research project titled “Scaling Up Small   Post-harvest and Nutritious Food Products Project”, in partnership with McGill University, Canada, and Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore, with the support of International Development Research Centre (IDRC), Canada, and Global Affairs Canada (GAC) through Canadian International Food Security Research Fund (CIFSRF).
 
 M Karthikeyan, principal investigator and programme leader, DHAN Foundation, said the decline in millet production was quite recent, though the crop had thrived a few decades ago. While the area under millet cultivation in 1988-1989 in Tamil Nadu was 1.10 lakh hectares, it had gone down drastically and after becoming minimal it had slowly come up to 20,000 hectares in the last four years. What was needed to encourage millet production was easier processing in the production centres and sales, in a decentralised manner.
 
 Dr Vijaya Raghavan from McGill University, Canada, stressed the need for focused research on small millets and the need for adoption of proven technologies across the country. He said the government also needs to encourage farmers by giving them subsidies for cultivating millets which were sustainable even in regard to climate change, as they could grow well with minimal inputs even in drought conditions. 
 
 Dr N Varadharaju, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore, said that it was millet cultivation which had enabled Tamil Nadu to bag the Krishi Karman award for the third consecutive year.
 
 
