CHENNAI: The corporation has chosen 23   in   that it will make 'smart streets' with  , recreational spaces and  .

 But urban planners say the changes may be only cosmetic, not transformative. All the streets are narrow, concrete structures, where requirements of a `smart streets' do not fit.
 
 Consultants for the project have envisaged smart lampposts at strategic locations, rainwater recharge structures on either side of the road, tree seats and artwork. But the roads are concrete-paved, so key features like underground ducts for utility cables will be tough to make.
 
 “We are not touching the paved portions of the road since they are cemented and cannot be broken,“ one of the three consultants said. They will, however, introduce parking areas, widen footpaths to a minimum of 1.8m, construct paver blocks and lay coloured   where there are no pavements.
 
 “There will be more options for wider streets,“ the consultant said. “None of the roads have drain networks. We will provide disposal arrangements wherever the width permits,“ he said.
 
 Width of these roads range between 6m and 9m with the exception of Maharajapuram Santhanam Salai, which is 10m wide, and Muthurangan Salai, which is 16m wide. Laying continuous standard footpaths will be a challenge here.
 
 “A street has to be at least 12 m wide to have a standard footpath on either side without space for on-street parking,“ an urban planner said.
 
 The corporation said concrete roads can serve as a strong foundation for smart designs. “Waterlogging doesn't take place on cement roads,“ an official said.
 
 But sources say the streets were chosen in haste to produce a progress report as Chennai has been lagging behind in the smart city initiative. Officials deny this.
 
 “Chennai is ahead of other cities in road laying and design,“ said an official.
 
 Experts say the streets chosen are spread out and do not join to form a network.
 
 “These streets should form a road network for the benefit of an area or neighbourhood. There is no use upgrading isolated streets,“ said K P Subramanian, former urban engineering professor of Anna University.
 
