Vadodara: A city-based builder has lodged a complaint against two residents of Petlad in Anand district, who took his luxury car to visit Ajmer in November and then tried to sell it twice -- once in Surat and then to a resident of Bird Circle in the city.

 Dharmesh Patel, a resident of Subhanpura, was approached by the two accused Mohsin Khan Pathan and Moin Khan Pathan through a common friend living in Ahmedabad. The duo asked Patel to give his Mercedes Benz C Class so that they can visit Ajmer for pilgrimage. After Patel gave them his car, the duo did not return even after 15 days.
 
 Police said that Patel did not register a police complaint so far because Mohsin and Moin had approached him through his friend from Ahmedabad. A police official said that Patel was trying to get in touch with them through his own sources. 
 
 Meanwhile, the accused along an unidentified person, who according to the police impersonated as Dharmesh Patel, got in touch with a middleman Harsh Thakkar, a resident of Surat.
 
 Thakkar approached one Ballubhai, a textile trader in Surat, and offered to sell him the car for Rs 25 lakh. When Ballubhai saw the car, he rejected the offer since it had Vadodara’s registration plate. He contacted his friend Vijay Thakkar in Vadodara and asked him if he wanted to buy the car. Vijay went to Surat to check the car and got suspicious since the car was offered at a low rate of Rs 25 lakh.
 
 Cops said that he contacted Mercedes company and asked about the owner’s details and and loans. He was told that the car was purchased on loan while Mohsin, Moin and the third unidentified person did not have any loan. After seeing the car’s registration papers, he tried to get in touch with Patel through different contacts. Finally, when Vijay could get in touch with him, he told about the dealings of his car that were being done in Surat.
 
 On the other hand, Ahmedabad police arrested Mohsin and Moin in connection with another case in Ahmedabad. During Ahmedabad police’s investigations, it was learnt that the duo had taken away Patel’s car and that they had committed several similar crimes. 
 
 Patel registered a complaint on Saturday. Along with the two brothers, the police have also booked Thakkar.
 
 “We went to Thakkar’s house in Surat but not much details have been gathered. Our main focus is to track the man who impersonated as Dharmesh and therefore we are trying to track call details of Thakkar,” a police official said.
 
 He added that Patel’s car is in custody of Ahmedabad police and after their investigations are over, the duo will be brought to city on transfer warrant.
 
 
