MUMBAI: The   asked Parel’s KEM Hospital on Wednesday to carry out medical examination of a 22-year-old woman who wants to abort her foetus with a brain anomaly. The woman found out about the defect in the 21st week of gestation, which is beyond the 20-week limit for abortion set by the Medical Termination of   Act, 1971.

 The woman, a resident of a western suburb, moved the apex court last week seeking its permission to abort the foetus that was detected with anencephaly, a serious defect where parts of the brain or skull are not adequately developed. The woman, along with her husband, approached Mahim-based gynaecologist Dr   after several doctors refused to terminate the pregnancy, saying it was past the legal deadline. This is the fourth such case from the city to be brought to the Supreme Court’s notice in the past three years. 
 
 The woman has now crossed 23 weeks of pregnancy. The SC has asked the same committee of doctors from KEM Hospital that had given its opinion in a rape victim’s case in July 2016, to look into the current case. In last year’s instance, the medical board had stated that the pregnancy would gravely endanger the mother’s life. Based on this report, the SC had given the go-ahead for its termination in a public hospital. In the current case, too, the SC has scheduled the next hearing on Friday. 
 
 Dr Pikale said the court’s proactive approach is commendable in such cases as the woman and the family tend to face immense mental trauma. “The woman visited my clinic around two weeks ago. Weighing a little over 36kg, she came across as malnourished. She had a turbulent initial weeks of pregnancy due to recurrent bouts of vomitting. Her scan reports came in, in the 21st week. We reconfirmed the fetal diagnosis by repeating some of the scans,” said Pikale. The   Act permits abortion within 20 weeks of pregnancy after two medical practitioners agree it is not dangerous to the mother.
 
 Experts said that fetuses with such severe anomalies not just have a slim chance of surviving the pregnancy but also a very high mortality rate post delivery. Gynaecologist and medico-legal expert Dr Nikhil Datar, who has been at the forefront of the legal battles to amend the MTP Act, said multiple incidents in quick succession show the urgency to get the bill passed. “How many more women have to approach the court to terminate pregnancies? The SC can at least pass some guidelines till the time the Act is amended,” said Datar. Under the proposed rules, the abortion time limit has been extended to 24 weeks and beyond in case of fetal abnormality, risk to the woman’s life or of injury to her physical or mental health. 
 
 Dr Avinash Supe, dean, KEM Hospital, said he will study the order on Thursday and decide on the committee.
 
 
