A clear stream of groundwater has finally be gun to trickle down the  ' of the scrapped Aranmula international airport project that began after reclaiming a verdant reservoir. The reservoir was situated in the middle of an expansive valley, nestled amid two hills and tiny rivulets of the Pamba. On a cloudless day, the temple mast of Aranmula Parthasarathy temple, exactly a kilometre away from the runway, would be visible on the northern horizon overlooking the puncha (paddy fields).

 The proponents of the Rs 2,000-crore project, KGS group, had maimed the lush green Karimaran hills to reclaim the 1.5km-long Aranmula reservoir and construct the runway. In one shot, KGS destroyed an ancient ecosystem, which sustained 600 acres of paddy land (the size of over 3,000 football fields) and enriched a perennial groundwater table across 30 sq km in Pathanamthitta. Residents said that restoring the reservoir is the key to revive agriculture here.
 
 Now, farmers of Aranmula and Mallappuzhassery have joined hands with state government in what could be termed as the biggest environmental initiatives in the recent past; a plan to revive a reservoir buried 15 feet deep in the airport construction debris. The long-term plan is to harvest paddy and patent it as Aranmula rice. Aranmula has become a symbol of green struggle, post the   agitation in the early 70s.
 
 The restoration is being done in the wake of a high court order to bring back the reservoir to its original state.“It is easier said than done.The reservoir itself had shrunk over the years into a small thodu. The project proponents had also reclaimed arterial rivulets like Karimaran thodu and Kannangatu thodu which flows to Valiya thodu and then to the Pamba. When the water level of Pamba rises, the entire valley used to get irrigated,“ said J Sajeev, special officer in charge of Aranmula paddy restoration project.
 
 The valley is a thicket of weeds and wild vegetation, a large tract has been flattened with the debris from the hillock. Around 22 landless and impoverished families have pitched tents at the southern end. “We won't ask them to move out as they are occupying a miniscule area,“ said Sajeev.
 
 Officials had attempted to dig up small water channels to restore the flow into the puncha, but they soon real ized that the reservoir is the key to rejuvenate paddy fields. A rapid impact assessment study by the   had found that the loss of paddy fields and wetlands here would translate to a loss of Rs 335-Rs 444 crore annually if the airport had become a reality. It would result in loss of rice and fish production, 800 tonnes of paddy and 320 tonnes of fish.
 
 The report found that there were 212 species of plants, 27 of which are endemic to the   and 110 plants that were mainly used for their medicinal properties. There were 60 species of fishes reported here, of which 42% were endemic to the Western Ghats.
 
 The farmers have now sown paddy in 20 acres at the southern end of the valley.“We have started now. The plan is to expand the paddy cultivation in the entire area by the end of this season,“ said P A Thomas, president of Thechikavu Pada Shekara Samiti.
 
 Residents too are supporting the move. “We don't want an airport. We are happy for the first time that a state minister has shown interest in this project,“ said Sajini Mathew in whose compound fertilizers are mixed. Paddy land owners, facing a huge shortage of labour, have recruited farmhands from Kavalam in Kuttanad. “We pay them Rs 700 a day and provide lodging facilities,“ said Thomas.
 
 Farmers will also get a percentage of Aranmula paddy after the harvest. Since most areas were acquired by the government from KGS group, paddy reaped will be sold in the open market as Aranmula rice, a novel way of not only conserving wetlands, but also improving the food security of the state.
 
 “That is how farmers used to work. They had an organic relationship with their land, getting a part of what they sowed,“ said PP Chandrashekharan, a samiti member.
 
