MUMBAI: With talk of   leader   being on his way to   gaining momentum, the   is all set to launch a fresh offensive against the Devendra Fadnavis regime on the twin issues of farmers’ loan waiver and price rise, it is learned.

 Speculation was rife on Monday that Sena president Uddhav Thackeray may ask his ten ministers (6 Cabinet, 4 MoS) to quit the government if BJP welcomes Rane into its fold. Moreover, the Sena is planning to take to Mumbai’s streets on the issue of price rise and the hike in petrol prices.
 
 “We are close to taking a decision,” Sena leader Sanjay Raut said in a not-so veiled threat to BJP. “Uddhavji has been authorised by all of us to take the final decision (on whether or not to continue in office as BJP’s ally),” Raut told mediapersons after talks between Uddhav, party ministers and legislators at Matoshree. Raut too attended the meet.
 
 Whether Thackeray asks his ministers to quit the Fadnavis-led government depends on how he calibrates his own political strength to tackle the post-power turmoil within the Sena, said a senior party functionary.
 
 “There is a likelihood the party would face discontent if our ministers are asked to give up office. Today, no leader can function without power. We have received reports that some of our MLAs are keen on defecting to BJP,” he pointed out.
 
 At the meet, scores of MLAs complained that Sena ministers were “insensitive” to their demand for speedy implementation of state-sponsored projects in their constituencies.
 
 While Raut denied that Sena legislators and ministers were at loggerheads, sources said growing dissidence in the Sena legislature party has sent Matoshree into a tizzy.
 
 But Rane’s imminent entry into BJP is cause for graver concern for Thackeray. Observers said BJP may use Rane, who left Sena in 2005 after differences with Uddhav, to target Matoshree. Given his fabled temper, the ex-CM may gleefully tread on the toes of Sena ministers at state cabinet meetings, much to the relief of BJP, they added.
 
 Rane on Monday held a rally at Kudal, in Konkan, where he said he would announce his future course of action on September 21. Reports have said Rane, along with sons Nilesh and Nitesh and Congress legislator Kalidas Kolambkar, may join BJP provided his terms and conditions are accepted by the BJP leadership.
 
 While CM Fadnavis refused to comment on Raut’s statement, a senior BJP cabinet member said the CM will react only if Uddhav makes a statement on withdrawal of support. 
 
 The cabinet member said, “Sena’s threats are always hollow. It lacks courage to withdraw support. If it really does withdraw, there will be no threat to the government’s stability. Invisible hands are always there to support… we expect the Sharad Pawar-led NCP to come to our rescue.” But NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said his party was prepared for mid-term polls if Sena withdrew support. “We will not come to the rescue of BJP but will prefer mid-term polls,” Malik said.
 
 Meanwhile, in the Kudal rally, Rane blamed state Congress chief Ashok Chavan and AICC general secretary Mohan Prakash for hatching a conspiracy against him. “Chavan and Prakash will soon wind up the Congress. I had brought this to the notice of Congress president Sonia Gandhi, but no steps were taken for revival of the organisation,” he said.
 
