Kishor had some official work in Bhayander on January 10. To avoid the evening peak hour road traffic, he decided not to travel by car but take the train instead. He bought a ticket for the general compartment. He had not anticipated the crushing load in the trains and had to let go of five trains. Finally, he boarded the special coach for   in the 7.22-pm Virar local from Andheri. He said he tried to get down at Borivali station to enter the general compartment but could not manage to do so.

 At   station, around four men in civil clothes entered his coach and dragged out around eight passengers who were not handicapped. “One man pulled me out of the coach holding my collar,” said Kishor. He said that he, along with the other passengers, were taken to a dark 10X10-foot room in an old building near platform no 1, on the Virar side. Some other passengers were already there.
 
 Claiming to be from the ‘railway police’, the men asked everyone to pay Rs 1,200 as fine for boarding the special coach. One of the men was disabled, which raised Kishor’s suspicions. “As far as I know, the police don’t hire disabled men. I told them to give me a receipt for the fine, but they refused.” When Kishor tried to click a picture of the laminated rate card inside the room, which mentions the fine amounts for various ‘crimes’, they stopped him. “I told them this is a public space and I should know what the fine is.” One of the ‘cops’ then told him he could leave. The others were also let off after paying up whatever cash they could cough up.
 
 After stepping out of the place, Kishor called the   (RPF) helpline 8828310026, from where he was directed to call another number 9769708254. When he said that ‘railway police’ were charging fine without a receipt, they told him that there is no such police deployed by the RPF at Mira Road. Only a male and a female constable in uniform are present at the station.
 
 When Mirror contacted RPF, senior inspector   said, “We don’t charge any fine in such cases. If someone is found travelling in a handicapped coach, we produce them before the court, which decides on the penalty. Also, all our staff is always in uniform. We don’t have such a room near the railway station.”
 
 Meanwhile, Government Railway Police (GRP) Commissioner Niket Kaushik told Mirror, “We don’t inspect inside the reserved compartments. That is done by RPF.”
 
 Shailesh Goel, member of Mumbai Suburban Railway Users’ Consultative Committee demanded that there should be only one agency for such inspections and all of them should be in uniform. “Such complaints have become routine now. The old room of the station master is used for this activity at Mira Road railway station.”
 
