NAGPUR: Admissions for   under   (RTE) Act quota may restart in Nagpur following the   being confirmed by the parents who got selected. 

 Shockingly, even though RTE lottery applications were oversubscribed by 300%, only 37% of selected parents completed admission formalities by the Monday deadline.   has been besieged by parents who missed the deadline and they are asking for a ‘second chance’. 
 
 A source in the education department said many parents came up with various excuses to make their case and only some seemed to be genuine. “The major issue was related to address proof of those staying in rented premises. To confirm admission, parents had to submit a registered copy of rent agreement which many did not have. Now the rule has changed and admission can be confirmed if any government issued ID (list available on RTE portal) is available with the rental address mentioned on it,” an official with the education department said. 
 
 TOI has learnt that permission to restart the admission process is being sought from the education department’s headquarters in Pune, and that may take a day or two. As per information available, there is a status quo on all admissions confirmed till Monday and it is only for the vacant seats that this process will move forward. 
 
 The reason that this simple solution, of restarting the admission process, is getting complicated is because the education department itself had warned that any parent missing out on the deadline will be barred from 2017-18 RTE admissions. So, probably, to work around this technical problem, the department is not starting the second round of lottery but merely restarting the process for parents. 
 
 A school principal said that people waiting for second round of lottery may object to this on technical grounds. “This is not an extension of deadline as the term ‘extension’ is used when new dates are announced before the deadline. In this case, the deadline is over and protocol demands that education department proceeds with the second round of lottery after cancelling applications of parents who failed to confirm admissions within the timeline,” said the principal. 
 
 It will be interesting to see which route the education department finally takes because either way, it will affect hundreds of parents. There are 7,099 seats available under RTE quota for which over 23K applications were received. In the first round only 6,838 applicants were selected but of those, a mere 2,612 parents completed the admission formalities.
 
