Chennai: On the back of the proposed acquisition of Samsung’s printer business and rising demand for printers from the millennials, HP Inc India is pushing the envelope with innovation. From offering compact and sleek printers to value add features, the company is going all out to expand the printer market. Raj Kumar Rishi, senior director, printing systems, HP Inc. India spoke to TOI about being the market leader, new markets it is entering and its future plans. Excerpts: What do you have to offer for the millennials and home segment? We are focussing on a couple of aspects. Our printers now come in compact sizes, sleek designs and are a lot more colourful. They are WiFi enabled and there is an app through which one can print directly from social media. It is almost important to watch the affordability from a total cost of ownership perspective. Be it energy consumption, space or cost per page. We recently launched the HP Sprocket photo printer. This is to cater to the selfie generation and is a modern twist to the traditional portable polaroid camera. It is the size of a smartphone, can integrate with social media platforms and instantly print photos. We will bring this to India soon. We also have an auto cartridge replacement feature which we are piloting currently. If a printer is connected to the network, we will know when the cartridge is about to get over and will send a replacement cartridge. The printing market globally hasn’t seen much growth. What is pushing you to innovate? Globally, the market is looking at low single digit growth. However, there is demand in India from different segments and we look to cater to each of them. Today, we are market leaders with 47% share and going forward we need to focus on expanding the market. The smallest ‘all in one’ printer — launched last year — is to address a segment that wasn’t earlier buying printers. We launched 15 laserjet printers recently that are compact and consume lesser energy. We are also focussing on the A3 printing market, an area that we have not ventured into. The acquisition of Samsung’s printing business which is pending approval is a step in that direction. We also realise that security is a big issue today. Any printer that is connected to the network is vulnerable and thus we have incorporated several security features in our printers. For example, once a print command is sent, a PIN is required for the print to be completed. Other features like Sure Start help safeguard printers and scanners from attack. HP Future Smart firmware runs diagnostics every time a device is booted to check for anomalies. We offer a managed print service option for enterprise customers with various plans based on their needs. On the back of technology and new products, we are offering the best print solutions with a robust partner network and seamless consumer experience.