CHENNAI: With several cases pending against VK   as well as the members of her extended family, legal observers wonder if it would be prudent on her part to take over as chief minister now. Key members of her family include Sasikala's husband M Natarajan, nephews T T V Dinakaran and V N Sudhagaran, her brother Divakaran, and her deceased brother's wife J Ilavarasi. There are next-gen persons, too, like Jaya Anand from Divakaran's family and Vivek from Ilavarasi's family who don't face any cases. 

 Sasikala's tryst with judicial proceedings started with that of Jayalalithaa, in 1996. Jayalalithaa suffered four convictions but wriggled out of all cases but one - the Rs 66.65 crore disproportionate assets case.
 
 Except the Pleasant Stay Hotels case, Sasikala was convicted in all other three cases along with Jayalalithaa. And the biggest test of all is the disproportionate assets case, the verdict of which has been pending before the Supreme Court since June 7, 2016. It will be out any time now, at least not later than May 2017, as one of the two judges is scheduled to retire by then. 
 
  Last week, Madras high court set aside Sasikala's discharge in at least four Enforcement Directorate-investigated cases, thereby exposing her to trial in all these cases. There is already an appeal by the ED pending in the Supreme Court relating to her non-appearance of ED summons in a FERA violation case. Her husband is still battling two cases relating to import of a Lexus car nearly 20 years ago. There were two parallel proceedings by the CBI and the ED. While he was convicted in the CBI case, and the appeal is pending in the high court, the ED proceedings have picked up momentum now before an economic offences court at Egmore in Chennai. Sasikalaa's nephew Dinakaran is facing the ED fine of Rs 28 crore imposed on him for FERA violations, which has now been confirmed by Madras HC. Last week the high court revived two more ED-probed JJTV transponder/uplinking fee cases against the former MP. 
 
  V N Sudhagaran and J Ilavarasi are co-accused in the Rs 66.65-crore disproportionate assets case. Divakaran is facing at least two land grab cases, both registered by the Jayalaltihaa government in 2012. 
 
 
