AHMEDABAD: Major city roads were flooded with vehicles in the first minutes of January 1, 2017, as citizens cheered the arrival of the New Year. Public places were turned into impromptu party zones.

 City police started dispersing the crowds after 12.30 am to ease traffic.   evidently dampened celebrations — there were fewer fireworks compared to earlier years when the clocks hit the midnight hour. Police officials also remarked that crowds were thinner than those seen in the previous years, partly due to the stringent stand taken by the police against illegal liquor consumption.
 
 CG Road remained the top choice for many who just wanted to bask in the festive spirit. They started crowding the road from 10 pm onwards.Most of the hotels and restaurants were brimming with revellers till late in the night as   emerged as the new destination to ring in the New Year.
 
 Clubs and party plots also reported increase in footfalls.Many Amdavadis decided to spend the night in the company of friends and families. On January 1, special prayer meetings were organized at city churches.
 
 “There were few untoward incidents reported on December 31 or the early hours of January 1,“ said a se nior city police official. “Optimum staff was deployed on the road both for security and traffic management. DCP-level officers were stationed at important locations such as CG Road and SG Road.“ He said the some stretches near SP Ring Road were lighted up; on these sites, robbery and eve-teasing had been reported earlier, Special teams of the traffic branch were on the road till 3 am clearing traffic and catching errant drivers. At 100-plus points, city police also carried out vehicle checking, particularly to catch inebriated people.
 
 Police also reported fewer cases of violation of prohibition laws. “In all, 55 persons were caught from areas such as Sardarnagar, Chandkheda, Vejalpur, Vastrapur, Ellisbridge, Sola, Krishnanagar, Amraiwadi and Odhav,“ said an official. “At Chandkheda, nine persons were caught from Purushottam Park Society near D Cabin where local residents had reported loud music even after midnight. When a team reached the spot, all those present were found inebriated. Most of the cases were registered while checking people on roads with breathalyzers.“
 
 
 
 
 City cops were engaged in the drive against liquor as a run-up to December 31 that spurs illegal liquor consumption. However, sources said that the top cops are determined to continue the drive. In 11-days since December 21, city police have registered 470 cases and have caught caught over 450 persons. “The number of barricades might be fewer but there will be regular vehicle checking nonetheless. Parallel activity to keep an eye on known bootleggers is also on,“ said a senior city police official.
 
