AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat chapter of   (IMA) on Tuesday stated that making the National Exit Test (NEXT) mandatory for medicos to practice as doctors will be gross injustice to the medical students. Gujarat-IMA plans a state-wide protest on Wednesday in which more than 15,000 students of 22 medical colleges will take part.

 The Gujarat-IMA claimed that the proposed exam will ruin the career of medical students as they willl be back to square one if they are not be able to clear the common test in three attempts.
 
 Dr  , president of Gujarat-IMA, said on Tuesday that the new provisions of   (NMC) proposed by Niti Ayog require a medical graduate in India to clear an exam to qualify as a practising doctor. But one of the provisions of the NMC says that the students who get medical degrees from foreign countries will not need to appear in the screening test for a licence to practice in India.
 
 Apart from this, students from Ayurvedic and homoeopathic faculties will just need to go through a bridge course to register themselves as ‘allophonic’ doctors, said Modi.
 
 Protest marches and sit-in agitations will be held outside the 22 medical colleges between 10 am and 1 pm, he said.
 
 Students will also form a human chain and submit a memorandum to the collector of their respective districts to press for their demand to scrap the proposal for a test, Modi said. 
 
 “The proposed exam will put additional burden on the students who already have to qualify for the course through various competitive examinations and who put in five-and-a-half years to obtain an MBBS degree,” Modi said.
 
 “We do not see any justification for the proposed exam,” he said. “Students who complete their MBBS go through clinical internship, which provides them with hands-on experience to qualify as practising doctors.” 
 
 Modi further said that they will oppose the bill by holding protests across the country on November 16. “The Centre had promised to look into our demands but nothing happened. This is why we have decided to hold another round of protest,” he said. The Bill seeks to replace the Medical Council of India with   in order to improve regulation of medical education in the country.
 
 Monil Patel, who completed MBBS this year, said that any medico spends 4.5 years and appears in 16 theoretical and practical tests. “Those exams are conducted by colleges governed by a government-run university. It seems the government does not believe in the exams conducted by its own universities,” Patel said. He further said that if a student fails to succeed in NEXT then he will have qualification of only class 12.
 
