BENGALURU: From serving in the police department and the Army to guarding homes and neighbourhoods, dogs are more than just `man's best friend'. But once out of service mostly due to old age or illness, not all of them are treated with dignity. The   (VOSD) sanctuary in the outskirts of Bengaluru is home to hundreds of such dogs which would have otherwise died or been killed.

 German Shepherds Chakki and Christy, for instance, are among the lucky ones. Having spent 10 years in Thiruvananthapuram, where they served the Kerala police as sniffer dogs, they were facing euthaf nasia post retirement as was r the practice before the  , in 2015, barred police, paramilitary and other defence forces from doing so. Today, they live a peaceful life at the sanctuary which houses 750 canines. Set up four-and-a-half-years ago by  , VOSD has conducted more than 7,000 rescues and 2 lakh medical procedures.
 
 “I got my first dog eight t years ago and later I brought home a few strays too. I started feeding dogs on my street and rescued many. With the SC order, it is now up to individual units to find homes for patriot dogs (as we call them) which need special care,“ said Rakesh. The push came from a human-animal conflict that took place in 2010: “There was an incident of a dog allegedly killing a child and eating it in Bengaluru. This prompted many politicians and bureaucrats to say all stray dogs would be killed,“ he said. Rakesh approached several NGOs seeking support to file a writ petition. “No NGO wanted to help. I also discovered that the Animal Birth Control Act -2000 has been in effect for more than a decade and that there was a government order to cull dogs in 2007 and no writ was filed even then. To protect dogs and help people do so, I founded VOSD,“ he said.
 
 The sanctuary added 15 patriot dogs over the past two years from Kerala, Karnataka, Railway police and the Indian Army . While most of them have reached retirement age, some retired due to medical conditions. The latest addition is a one-year-old police dog which was declared unfit due to a congenital heart condition.
 
  and  , both 11 years old, retired after serving Mangaluru police as sniffer dogs.While Sandhya was due to be euthanized, Maya retired early due to a growth on her back.Rakesh said VOSD is trying to encourage units and handlers to drop off dogs at the sanctuary. The team is hoping to add 100 more patriot dogs to the sanctuary this year.
 
