Two months ago, city's top bariatric surgeon Dr Muffazal Lakdawala and   were the toast of the world's healthcare industry as the planet's heaviest woman at 500kg,  , was flown in on a cargo plane from Egypt to Mumbai with a promise of a new life.

 But as Eman's family prepares to fly her out to Abu Dhabi on Sunday for further treatment amid allegations of commitments not kept on one side and of ingratitude on the other, the whole exercise ­ at one point seen as an advertisement for India's medical prowess ­ has just become one ugly mud-slinging match.
 
 To Dr Lakdawala's credit, Eman, who had not stepped out of her house in Alexandria for 25 years before she was flown to Mumbai, is nearly 300 kg lighter and arguably in much better shape. But according to her sister,  , Saifee and Dr Lakdawala have abandoned Eman. She has alleged that though her sister still requires round-the-clock medical attention, the hospital has forced her take discharge. The hospital, on its part, has accused Shaimaaa of making false allegations and even interfering with her sister's treat ment. Things have come to such a pass now that there is a police case registered against Shaimaaa for giving water to her sister against medical advice.
 
 In an exclusive   to Mumbai Mirror, Shaimaa talks about how it all went horribly wrong, how everybody at Saifee has stopped talking to her, and how she has been left alone to make arrangements to fly her sister to Abu Dhabi for a second shot at life.
 
 
 
 
 I did not start it. Dr Lakdawala and Saifee Hospital authorities started it. On March 31, Dr Lakdawala suddenly told me that Eman was fine and would be discharged soon. I was shocked because, on February 4, when Dr Lakdawala had visited my home in Alexandria to meet Eman he had said that Eman will be in his care for at least a year. After I requested him to reconsider his decision, he decided to extend her stay by a week. We spoke again on April 13 and I pleaded with him to not discharge Eman in her current condition. But he was adamant. On April 14, I recorded a video in which I talked about Saifee and Dr Lakdawala's decision to abandon Eman and uploaded it on Facebook.Dr Lakdawala had promised me and my mom that Eman will walk. In the condition she is in now, she can't even eat. If I have to take my sister home in this condition, what was the point of bringing her here?
 
 
 
 
 I agree that Eman's weight has reduced. But it is not a drop of 324 kg. She has possibly lost 100 kg, and a lot of it was fluids that were drained out of her body. In 2016, Eman was diagnosed with severe lymphedema and water retention, but she was never 500 kg.
 
 
 
 
 I have no idea. Three years ago, Eman suffered a brain stroke. Before the stroke, Eman used to be able to sit up on her own. Dr Lakdawala told us that she must be around 498 kg, but she was never weighed at Saifee hospital.
 
 
 
 
 I was asked not to speak to the press.
 
 
 
 
 I am not denying any of this -Dr Lakdawala's untiring efforts to get her to Mumbai, the treatment at Saifee, the Indian government's assistance, the love and care she received from the doctors and the support staff. Till March-end everything was alright. The spat between me and Dr Lakdawala started over his decision to discharge her. We came here not for money but in the hope of a new life for Eman. But now they want us to take her back. Currently, you need eight people to just prop Eman up into a sitting position. Do you think my mom and I will be able to take her to a hospital everyday for physiotherapy? I agree a lot of money has been spent on Eman's treatment. But I never asked for Dr Lakdawala help, it is he who offered to help. I trusted him, Eman trusted him. She was very happy after meeting Dr Lakdawala. He was like a ray of hope for her.
 
 
 
 
 Eman can't speak, but she does communicate with me. She is aware of what is going on. I have told her that I am shifting her to another hospital for treatment. She is tired. It's been more than a month after her surgery but she continues to be on a liquid diet. Yesterday she wanted to drink water, I gave her a few drops of water, and the hospital filed a police complaint against me.
 
 
 
 
 There is a drastic change between the Dr Lakdawala I met at my home in Alexandria and Dr Lakdawala now. He and his hospital gained global fame by bringing Eman here, but we became a burden for them in just two months.I haven't spoken with Dr Lakdawala in 20 days.In fact nobody in the hospital talks to me now.I am fighting a lone battle for my sister.
 
 
 
 
 I will have to see what is best for my sister. I can't take her home in this condition. Dr Shamsheer Vayalil, MD, VPS Healthcare, had accompanied Dr Lakdawala to Alexandria. The plan initially was to operate on Eman at Abu Dhabi, but later Dr Lakdawala decided to take her to Mumbai.Dr Vayalil is ready to admit my sister in Burjeel and is offering over a year's free treatment and stay.
 
 
 
 
 I just wants to say thanks to everyone, including Dr Lakdawala and Saifee Hospital for all the help they have provided to us.
 
