GOA: As director of National Institute of Oceanography ( ), which is now 50-odd years old, what are your priorities?

  It’s a very exciting time in terms of reflecting on everything that NIO and the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR), which is celebrating 75 years, have achieved. Now, CSIR is undergoing a lot of change. There is a shift in the research pattern, which will also mean that NIO will change its direction slightly. Earlier, I could take up the research of, say, the warming of the ocean while somebody else could take up research on extreme events like cyclones, or something else like the ecosystem. But, all these things are connected. At the time it was not mandatory and one could research small exciting problems that did not have to be connected. It was not necessary to look at it in a holistic manner. But I think the demand, now that the nation has high expectations from us, is quite different from what it was earlier.
 
 What are the new areas in ocean research that NIO is looking at?
 
 CSIR’s guideline asls for a 15-year vision, a seven-year strategy, and a three-year implementation plan. We are preparing the first document towards that 15-year vision plan. But there is three years of implementation for which NIO will put up four important programmes that look at the climate change and monsoon. Monsoon has been the focus of NIO’s research in some way, but we are now going to look at what role the ocean plays in terms of modulating the monsoon, and whether we can improve the prediction, and help the agencies that predict monsoon, such as IITM (Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology) and IMD (India Meteorological Department), by improving our understanding in a quantitative way, and that can be put into the model and they can improve the prediction.
 
 There have been reports that funding for science and ocean study is coming down. How do you manage to sustain your activities?
 
 Well, as of now, our last five-year plan is going to end in March 2017. So, we have been funded up till that point. After March 2017, all the programs we are going to undertake will directly contribute towards nation building, in terms of the government's program. Also, the government of India is a signatory to the   sustainable development goal, which has listed about 30-odd topics. India is committed to contribute towards that sustainable development, and that has climate, ecosystem, and oceans in it. We will be contributing towards all these areas. We will also look at the ocean under the Blue  , which is nothing but knowledge economy. Simply put it means you first have to have the knowledge, then you can derive benefit from it. To elucidate the point, let’s suppose that I want to develop a coastal region and there’s an entrepreneur who wants to set up a beach recreation business. Now, it's a very lucrative business. But, before entering into it, he/she should be equipped to understand the coastline, and what the vulnerabilities are, and what the particular features of that coastline are. And he should also know how he can do his business in a sustainable manner. For example, if a thousand people are coming to a small one-kilometre stretch of coastline, can the activity be sustained? Probably not. We need to regulate that.
 
 So, NIO is also going be a kind of an advisory body to the tourism department?
 
 We are probably going to go much beyond that, because CSIR has also launched something called the ‘Skill India’ programme in September 2016. We will have the courses to teach entrepreneurs.We'll launch maybe four to five certificate courses which will range from two to eight months, in line with the ‘Skill India’ programme.
 
 You have had some very interesting findings in the past, some of which have been a boon to medicine and the fisheries sectors. Have these translated into economic benefits for NIO?
 
 Not really, we have not taken in a grand way to industry. A lot of research has gone into the dye industry. They create dyes, and the discolouration is a problem, apart from the toxicity. Even if you take care of the toxicity, if the water is discoloured, people don’t want to use that dye. It may not be toxic, but the discolouration can cause difficulty. ‘Y-Technology’, our technology group, has developed a series of microbes that can take care of this problem by reducing the discolouration. Now, we are going to try it out from the laboratory scale to field scale, and then we're going to go to the industry. Earlier it has just been thought about on a slower pace, but now we are going to have to do it much faster. That is how we are going to translate the research.
 
 But, economically, has there been any significant benefit?
 
 Yes, because they can reduce the cost several times, so economically it is very lucrative. We cannot have 100% discolouration, but even a reduction of 40% in discolouration is great for industry. There is also research going on about how mercury in the environment can be reduced.
 
 
