For the past 10 years or so, 11 crossings or road junctions have been identified as the city’s black spots or accident-prone zones, a report prepared by the   reveals. Each of these zones, including the six spots located along the  , has claimed five or more lives every year since 2007.

 According to the report, which was prepared following a series of surveys conducted by the traffic police last year, the danger spots are Hero Honda Chowk, Rajiv Chowk, Kherki Daula, Narsinghpur, Manesar bus stand, Shikohpur Mod, Siddhrawali bus stand, Naurangpur bus stand, Khandsa stand, Badshahpur stand and Ambedkar Chowk. 
 
 Police sources said these 11 black spots, which were among the 330-odd accident-prone zones across Haryana, were first identified in 2011-12. A survey was conducted on the basis of the number of accidents that took place at those spots between 2007 and 2010. Based on the findings, the then traffic police head had suggested some key steps to prevent accidents. In 2016, the police undertook three surveys again to find out if the steps were implemented, if the number of accidents at those identified spots had actually reduced since 2011-12.The police also identified corrective measures that need to be taken to minimise the number of mishaps at the danger zones. 
 
 Unfortunately, the 2016 report suggests that the eleven zones continue to trouble commuters and witness fatal accidents. tnn The report also highlights engineering and other faults at these spots that need to be mended to ensure commuters’ safety.
 
 “The traffic police have written to Haryana State Roads and Bridges Development Corporation, National Highways Authority of India, and block development and panchayat officers to make (structural) changes at those spots to improve road safety,” said JCP Sibash Kabiraj, joint commissioner of police, Gurgaon.
 
 He added that MCG and NHAI had been advised to add road markings, put in place delineators, reflectors wherever needed. Also, the agencies have been asked to build service lanes, flyovers or underpasses at the locations demarcated as major accident points.
 
 
