AHMEDABAD: A report by the Union ministry of   (MHRD) tabled in the Lok Sabha last month, claims there is significant shortage in number of faculty members at Gujarat’s two premier institutes – Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad ( ) and Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar (IIT-Gn). The directors of both these institutes, however, feel that MHRD is somehow missing things.

 While professor Ashish Nanda, director, IIM-A, terms MHRD’s projection as ‘notional’, professor Sudheer Jain, director, IIT-Gn, says, “there must be some misunderstanding in quoting the figures in the MHRD report.” The ministry had tabled the report in Lok Sabha on March 20.
 
 Both the institutes continue to rank at the top, nationally, which is difficult given MHRD’s claim of serious shortage in faculty members in both institutes.
 
 Indian Institute of Management-Ahmedabad (IIM-A), ranked at 1st position in the category of management institutes in   (NIRF), and Indian Institute of Technology- Gandhinagar (IIT-Gn), secured 30th place among engineering institutes.
 
 According to figures given in the MHRD report regarding shortage of faculties in 13 IIMs and 20 IITs, IIM-A has 103 faculty members against the sanctioned strength of 120 and IIT-Gn has 90 faculty members against the sanctioned strength of 120. Speaking on the issue, professor Ashish Nanda, director, IIM-A, said, “As MHRD’s tabled response indicates, IIM-A faculty strength (including permanent and temporary faculty) is 103. That suggests a notional gap of 17 positions between current strength and sanctioned strength.”
 
 “Having said that, given our strategic priorities and activity profile, IIM-A needs faculty members in virtually all areas of management. Faculty recruitment is an ongoing process at the institute,” said Nanda, adding, “High quality faculty is our strategic resource. We recruit faculty year-round on a continuous basis.”
 
 “Even as we are proactive in recruiting, we maintain high quality standards in our recruitment efforts,” Nanda said.
 
 Nanda said that 33 new members of faculties have joined the institute since January 2013. 
 
 Professor Sudheer Jain, director of IIT-Gn, said that the IIT-Gn has over 100 faculty members against the sanctioned strength of 120. “The faculty strength in IIT-Gandhinagar must be over 100 at present. At present, there is no shortage of faculty in the institute,” Jain said.
 
 
