MUMBAI: Only 29% of students who were allotted   in round two have confirmed admissions. As round two concluded on Monday, data revealed that 40% of those who were allotted their   did not secure seats. 

 The second merit list was announced on July 20 and 80,141 were allotted seats. Of these, only 23,043 secured seats. The number of students who did not report for admissions despite being allotted their first preference has doubled as compared to round one. In the first round, 42,854 out of the 53,803 students rejected their top college choice. 
 
 Meanwhile, parents and students on Monday queued up at the education department’s office to complain about problems in the online   system. Anil Lohar, a parent, said a Badlapur college uploaded online that his son had confirmed admission in round one though the student did not pay fees or submit documents. “We had only gone to enquire at the college and now we are out of the process. We have got an apology letter from the college but the department does not have a solution to get us back in the process,” he said.
 
 The department also got complaints from parents about their college preferences were altered. “Some parents have alleged that schools had access to their user IDs and passwords and that they removed all selected options except their own college,” said an official from Nysaa Asia, the agency managing the admission portal. Some parents also complained that colleges were misleading them by saying it is mandatory to confirm seats even if they were not given their first preference. 
 
 Education officials said not all claims could be true. “We are looking into the complaints but the system cannot make an exception for one or two students. They will have to wait for the special admission rounds after the four merit lists are announced. Some students might have secured admission in the colleges under the quota but not filled the part two of the form. In such a case, the authorities could have selected their own college,” said BB Chavan, deputy director of school education, Mumbai. 
 
 The department will put up a list of vacancies available at all colleges at 5pm on Tuesday. 
 
 
