ALLAHABAD: Leaders of Congress and Samajwadi party are running from pillar to post to finalize the route map for the proposed road show of chief minister & Samajwadi Party president   and Congress vice president  . The two leaders are likely to hold a mega road show in Sangam city on February 15 (Wednesday). 

 UPCC (Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee) spokesman Kishore Varshney told TOI, "leaders of SP and Congress have held a series of meetings to finalize the route map for the proposed roadshow by the chief minister Akhilesh Yadav and Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi". He further added "once the route map was finalized, we would be taking permission from district administration and election commission to hold the road show in support of Congress and SP candidates contesting the assembly polls."
 
 While congress is contesting from City North assembly seat, SP is also contesting on City West and City South assembly seats. 
 
 He further added, "District presidents of Congress Anil Dwivedi and SP district president Krishnamurti Yadav would be chalking out further strategy to finalise the route map of road show and permission for same would be taken from the authorities concerned." He, however, said that route map has been planned to focus on three urban based assembly segments of the district.
 
 "Two route maps for road show have been discussed which would be covering all three city based assembly segments including City West, City South and City North", said senior Congress leader Javed Urfi adding, "If Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi arrives at Bamrauli airport, then the road show would start from Bamrauli, heading towards Sulemsarai, Khulabad, Nakhas Kohna, Ghantaghar, Johnstonganj crossing, Civil Lines, Hindu hostel crossing, Katra and would culminate at Anand Bhawan.
 
 As per second plan, "If road show starts at Anand Bhawan, then it would follow the route towards Katra, Hindu Hostel crossing, Civil Lines, Johnstonganj corssing, Niranjan bridge, Ghantaghar, Kotwali, Nakhas Kohna, Khuldabad, Sulemsarai and culminating at Bamrauli, informed Urfi. 
 
 Samajwadi Party spokesman, Daan Bahadur "Mahdur” told TOI, "the final route for road show would be soon finalized and SP national president Akhilesh Yadav and Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi would be interacting with masses through road show. 
 
 Apart from road show, UPCC chief Raj Babbar would also be visiting Sangam city to canvass for party candidates on Thursday. 
 
 Insiders, however, told TOI, "Both Congress and SP leaders are in a catch 22 situation over the final route plan and have decided to hold a series of meetings before handing over final route plan of the road show to administration as special protection group has to set up security parameters for the two leaders.
 
