Tuesday (May 2) episode of Dhhai Kilo Prem starts with   asking   to give the towel.  , who has been hidden in his room, gives him towel covering her eyes.
 
  
 
  
  Piyush spots the nail polish and asks Tushar why did he apply nail polish. He comes out and spots Deepika in his room and runs inside the bathroom.
  
  Deepika then tells Piyush that she had come to meet his mother  . He then wears his clothes and asks her to sneak out from the back door.
  
  Madhuri informs her daughter Meghna about how Deepika arranged for clothes. Bua, who doesn't want Madhuri to do anything, see the exhibition form and asks Tushar to throw it in the garbage.
  
  Piyush's father comes and steps on the exhibition form and asks Tushar to pick it up. He gets angry and asks his wife the reason for setting up a stall at exhibition?
  
  Madhuri is tensed and says she was going to tell everyone about it. Adding fuel to the fire, Bua shows the clothes to her brother trying to provoke him against Madhuri.
  
  He also wants to know where did she get the money and she tells them that the money has been taken on loan. Bua scolds Madhuri for taking money on loan this is when Madhuri says that Bua took her savings.
  
  Piyush's father scolds Madhuri and asks her to remove her mangalsutra before going to the exhibition. Piyush comes home but is unaware of the happenings. He tries to cheer up his mother but she doesn't smile this when he asks them about the problem.
  
  Tusshar's bua takes away the sweet box and asks Madhuri to return the clothes. A confused Piyush fails to understand anything and asks his brother about it. His brother Tushar asks him to call Deeepika and that she will tell him everything.
  
  Angry Piyush goes to meet Deepika, who refuses to tell him anything but on Piyush's insistence she narrates the entire incident of how she was helping Madhuri by setting up a stall at an exhibition.
  
  Piyush reaches home and asks his mother why didn't she confide in him. Piyush says they will go ahead with the stall at the exhibition.
  
  Madhuri is worried as she cannot go out of the house due to some pooja at home. Deepika says they will work via video conferencing.
