HYDERABAD: The rice we eat will soon become more nutritious and healthy, with a major portion of the important aleurone (nutrient) layer remaining intact. Scientists at the city-based   (NIN) and the   (IIRR) have finally prevailed upon rice millers in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to reduce the percentage of polishing of grains from the present 10 to 8%.

 Polishing of rice has always remained the cause of concern in India, even prior to Independence. In fact, Mahatma Gandhi in one of his editorials in his newspaper, Harijan (October 26, 1934), had emphasised on the ill effects of polished rice.
 
 NIN director T Longvah said during the release of the `Indian Food Composition Tables (IFCT)' here on Friday that reduction in the percentage of polishing from 10 to 8% will increase the nutrient value of rice. The publication lists 150 nutrition parameters of 526 commonly consumed foods across India. “The new tables provide the much-needed data in specialised fields and bring about a paradigm shift in nutritional research in the country,“ Longvah said.It is a game-changer in nutrition in our country, Longvah added.
 
 The immediate benefit will accrue to schoolchildren, who partake the mid-day meal schemes in government schools in the states of AP and Telangana.
 
 The NIN has also for the first time in the world proved that many plant products including rice contain vitamin D2 and D3. “Many new nutri ents have been analysed and significant variations are reported in composition of micronutrients like calcium, magnesium, riboflavin, and niacin. The availability of new analytical vitamin D data in foods will permit dietary intake assessment.
 
 Over the years there has been a change in dietary pattern of Indians, shifting from conventional diet to modified food supply systems. The new data will also help in fighting obesity, non-communicable diseases and cancers, besides improving the nutritional quality of the foods consumed by people in our country. NIN deputy director and media coordinator Maheshwar Mekam was also present at the event.
 
