 in the city was bereft of the usual ‘year-end cheer’. For one, there wasn’t that ‘one party’ all the hipsters headed to. Add to that the fact that NYE fell on a weekend, it led to an exodus of sorts with those in search of greener ‘party’ pastures leaving town. What’s worse, the last minute cab strike further ruined the party plans of the few who stayed back in Hyderabad!

 
 
 Until a few years ago,   was marked by one massive party where the hip lot would converge. But things have changed now. “That trend has changed because Hyderabad isn’t the same anymore. The demographic has changed and people have countless options to choose from. So every little place is doing its own thing for its niche 
 clientele,” explains Naren Pal Singh, a party regular. 
 
 
 
 While some (read those who just need an excuse to party more than once a week) frowned at the fact that the New Year’s holiday coincided with a weekend, most working professionals heaved a sigh of relief, packed their bags and whizzed off to the season’s party hotspots like Pune and Goa. “I have always worked on New Year Eve and have been stuck in the city every yearend. But this year, with NYE falling on a Saturday, I grabbed the chance and took off to Pune for the EDM festival! I am so pumped,” says Vikram K, a techie. 
 But the ones who missed out on booking tickets in advance, the mood in the city was more than just dull. “Since we get together and party every weekend anyway, NYE didn’t feel any different. The only thing is that our entry to the clubs got more expensive. I wish I had planned earlier and gotten out of here,” says a dejected Subhash. 
 
 
 
 The news of cab drivers calling for a five-day strike starting from December 31 came as a major bummer to many revellers who had hoped to drink away the last of 2016 and take a ride back home safely. 
 “Well, that was a last minute twist indeed. We had decided to book a cab once we hear the call for ‘last order’. But we had to change plans and do a house party, crash at a friends place and figure out the commuting for the next day,” says  , a working professional.
 
 
