
 
  
 
  Partly  . We achieved operational profits for the last financial year which means we were at least able to meet our expenditure. We used to attract a lot of negative vibes and reporting in the media. That has tapered down. Our services have improved. That is what I am told by people whenever I travel myself: and these are people outside of Air India. But I am using the word partly, because the legacy problems remain. The big burden -- our debt -- remains.
  
  
 
  There's too much competition. The costs are rising and yields are falling. You can’t do much about it. You can only try to fly the aircraft more and fill seats as much as possible.
  
  Our yields have fallen by 7%, and domestic yields are down by 15%-16%. But our revenues have still risen by 3%. So, actually we have made a 10% impact on our revenues with improved efficiency. We increased utilisation of our fleet. For instance, we introduced four new international flights last year -- three were operated by using old planes.
  
  What we also, however, did was we got into sale and leaseback deals (which didn’t work well). Interest or finance costs on debt (when aircraft is purchased) come below the line of operational expenses. But lease rentals accrue as operating expenses. That is what has impacted our operating profits for the first two quarters.
  
  We, however, hope to post an operating profit for this year too as September to March is a much better half of the year.
  
  
 
  Leasing of planes is a very costly proposition. It has the advantage of not having to pay upfront. But the amount which a company pays regularly (as lease rentals) is much higher than what it would have to pay had it purchased the aircraft by taking a loan.
  
  The premium on selling planes to lessers is not much, just a couple of million dollars. The lease cost of one   787 plane is $1 million a month. For a year for 21 Dreamliners, it’s Rs 1,800 crore. If I had purchased, my outgo in terms of interest costs on loans would have been Rs 1,000 crore.
  
  Going forward, I would definitely do outright purchase of planes.
  
  
 
  We would definitely like to do that as it reduces the servicing cost to half or even 60% -- it's still being debated.
  
  
 
  Yes I would. I will call it sick as long as we don't meet our total expenditure from our revenues.
  
  I have said that on a year-to-year basis we will make it profitable, that is in my hands. What is not in my hands is the Rs 50,000 crore of debt which we have. If we don't find a solution to that, then God only knows....
  
  
 
  It is still in the works. There are no hurdles but it’s a lengthy process. Up to about Rs 10,000 crore can be converted to equity. We are also looking at LIC.
  
  
 
  The government is giving us support to the extent of servicing loans raised for the procurement of planes as desired by it. It is always the owner who pays for the capital invested. These funds don’t even fully cover the loan repayments. These are not subsidies.
  
  Purchase of capital assets is the decision and responsibility of the owners. The government bought the planes, so it has to pay.
  
  We had asked for Rs 3,300 crore and the government has sanctioned Rs 800 crore (as supplementary grants). What will happen is that the money I owe to other organisations, including banks, will rise. We have to meet our costs: either by borrowing from banks, or delaying payments. That has been happening for several years.
  
  
 
  The problem of huge staff count isn’t there any more. That is an incorrect perception. We banned recruitments 18 years back. At that time staff count was higher. The perception has remained but today we are short of staff.
  
  Everybody thinks government organisations are bloated. We also went along with that and retired people. Now we have to reverse that process.
  
  We didn’t make any recruitments for 18 years! Can you imagine an organisation that has an average age of 50 years? How can you run a dynamic organisation that has an average age that high? That led to a lot of shortcuts and neglect in several areas. You don't send people for training in systems, etc.
  
  One Airbus 320 requires 43 pilots and cabin crew. We do our engineering work in house. So the requirement is definitely higher.
  
  We have started recruiting pilots and cabin crew, but haven’t started hiring in other categories such as commercial staff, personnel, finance. We would like to recruit 200 people immediately in the non-operational departments. The overall requirement number is much larger.
  
  
 
  The disparity is still there. We merged two organisations which weren't supposed to be merged, which can’t ever be merged. You put oil in water. They will remain separate.
  
  But employee morale is better. It is a question of employees having faith in the airline management. I meet them and I speak to them. I SMS everyone who SMSes me and reply to Whatsapp messages. I get in touch with 150-200 people every single day.
  
  
 
  No way! That would be 150-200 times my predecessors! Just the fact that they are getting to meet their chairman makes a lot of difference. I would say I am able to settle about 30-40% of their grievances. But some of them are just too complicated (to solve).
  
  
 
  In the initial years, we promoted the Maharaja a lot. And then we slowed down to almost zero in terms of advertising and brand building. But we have resumed that.
  
  You must have seen our hoardings. We have in some instances gone for really aggressive adversiting.
  
  There are risks too. If we bring the Maharaja in full glory, people say "aapke flights mein services nahi hain aur aap Maharaja ko aise promote kar rahe ho" (You lack in service but are still promoting your royal mascot). So the Maharaja has to come back gradually.
  
  I have done this for very long. The Tourism Madhya Pradesh campaigns that you must have seen were mine. We used to sit down for hours with the ad agencies and finalise them. We will do a full marketing blitzkrieg when we improve performance.
  
  
 
  My biggest threat is debt, not Jet. Remove that, and we will beat everyone hollow. 
