Chennai: Most   cases occur at workplaces and 68.9% of the victims do not lodge a complaint because they fear retaliation, repercussions and sympathy with the offender, said a survey conducted by Indian National Bar Association (INBA), an association of lawyers.

 The survey was conducted in Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Guwahati, Hyderabad, Jalandar, Kolkata, Lucknow, Mumbai, New Delhi and Pune across firms covering the BPO, IT, education, legal, hospital, food processing and agriculture, manufacturing and labour sectors. The participants included 78%   and 22 % men.
 
 Fear, embarrassment, lack of confidence in the complaint mechanism and stigma attached to sexual harassment were reasons for the people not complaining about the incidents. According to the findings, most companies were unaware of the correct mechanism under Sexual Harassment of Women at   (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013.
 
 Around 65% of the respondents said the organisation did not follow the procedure under the law. While 60% people said sexual harassment continued for less than six months, 28.9% said it continued for more than a year. Sexual harassment in office involved sexism (touching oneself while looking at females), lewd comments, inappropriate touching, asking for sexual favours and physical harassment (more direct sexual misdemeanor like groping). 
 
 Despite awareness of sexual harassment being high, 42.2% people thought there was not enough legal protection for sexually harassed employees and 46.7% felt legal protection existed, but not in an organised manner.
 
 Zameer Nathani of INBA said though the act had clearly defined the rights of women in workplace like the correct complaint mechanism, duties of internal committees, role of inquiry committee and protection to victim, people had to be informed of the provisions.
 
 Advocate Sudha Ramalingam said sexual harassment victims generally did not prefer a complaint as the stability of their job is threatened. Because of the social stigma, the victims are unable to find jobs at other places.
 
 
