GURUGRAM: Two residents of Ansal API Valley View Estate society in   — Vaishali Rana Chandra and Sharmila Kaushik — were forced to move the   ( ) after all their efforts to pursue the district administration and the MCG to conduct a fresh demarcation of Kost nullah (drain) near their condominium failed.

 The nullah, which begins at Gwal Pahari and passes through   and Ghata before emptying into the Badshapur drain, has been encroached upon by two private developers, blocking the natural flow of water.
 
 The residents say if the nullah is not freed of encroachments soon, it could lead to a rerun of Gurujam this monsoon. According to them, the district authorities are turning a blind eye to the problem and have not yet initiated a fresh demarcation of the nullah, despite an order from the director of land records (DLR) in Panchkula.
 
 Five demarcations have been done in the past two years, which have shown that the nullah has been encroached. Based on a demarcation done in April 2015, one of the private builders was asked to stop construction activity for a year as three of its buildings were found to be right on the nullah.
 
 However, the residents say, based on a “fallacious” demarcation done by the revenue department last year, the construction activities on the bed of the nullah resumed. But after the residents raised an objection, the DLR ordered the Gurgaon deputy commissioner in August last year to get a fresh demarcation done.
 
 “While a big hue and cry is made by the local administration about the preservation of natural drains so that flooding does not take place in the city, sadly there is total inertia on their part. For the past two years, we have been fighting a battle to save this nullah, but still the construction right on its bed continues unabated,” said Chandra and Kaushik.
 
 “Instead of helping us, all efforts are being made to intimidate us and the authorities seem to aiding the private builder. We are told that a   minister has a stake in this private firm. All our efforts to get a fresh demarcation of the nullah done did not yield any result,” they added.
 
 When contacted, deputy commissioner Hardeep Singh said he was not aware of the direction to conduct a fresh demarcation of the drain. “But I will look into this matter,” he said.
 
 MCG officials said they have been not yet been able to look into the matter so far.
 
 
