She’s been gorging on maach-bhaat and mishti doi ever since she flew back home.   or  , as she was popularly known on reality show  , is unperturbed by the speculation around her marriage. In Kolkata to seek blessings from her parents post her much-hyped wedding on national television, the actress-turned-reality TV star came clean on her equation with  , her desire to work with Tolly hearthrob Dev and how 
 ’s dig at her marriage left her heartbroken. Excerpts...

 
 
 It feels great. My mother vowed to visit a temple on the outskirts of the city when I’m back in town, so I decided to come on Shivratri. My husband, Vikrant ( ), couldn’t come owing to rehearsal schedules of  , so I won’t be visiting too many relatives. They won’t be happy to see me alone soon after marriage. 
 
 
 
 It’s like a dream. I’ve yearned so much as an actress — seems like I’m getting my dues now. A lot of women have identified with my real self — it’s endearing. 
 
 
 
 The equation with a fellow contestant post the show is always different. Inside, you are trapped with only a handful of people and you are bound to feel close to them. Now that we are outside the house, we are both busy with our respective lives. We do talk sometimes; he called Vikrant a few days back. 
 
 
 
 It was just a phase. I could understand where his insecurity and emotions were coming from — we were apart from each other for an awfully long time and the only access he had to me was the edited footage that went on air. But I’m glad he figured out I was just playing a game. Once outside the house, I made things clear to him. Manu and I were just friends. I met Manu’s fiancee Priya post the finale and we laughed off the rumours. 
 
 
 
 The remark was disheartening. He was so nice to me on my face — he even congratulated me in front of  . Farah Khan took offence at his remark and said, ‘Don’t say such things. She just got married’. Coming from someone who’s the master of romantic films, it was saddening. He makes beautiful films on relationships — it’s unfortunate that he couldn’t see the truth in mine. 
 
 
 
 Vikrant and I don’t come from such families where marriages are small deals. I’ve dreamt of getting married to the perfect man since childhood. I was in a relationship with Vikrant since 2008 and we would have got married either way. It so happened that things just fell into place during the show. It wasn’t fake. 
 
 
 
 I was surprised that even after spending 98 days together, I didn’t know about this! I knew that he fled from his marriage and didn’t end up in wedlock. I believe it was strategic of him to reveal it after the finale. Manveer is a wonderful man. He was very caring towards me but I was indeed hurt that as a friend, he didn’t share this with me. 
 
 
 
 No, I don’t think Bigg Boss messed with anyone’s life. Look at me — I’m the happiest girl in the world now and that’s because I married my beau on the show. Whenever people would ask us about our marriage, we’d say, ‘When we do, everyone will come to know.’ Thanks to our marriage on national TV, we are getting congratulatory messages from all over the world. What’s not to love about it?
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Yes, my parents have been extremely supportive of my decision. The pressure was on from both our families since the past three years. I had no clue about Vikrant’s proposal when I was inside the house. The channel got in touch with Vikrant and my family for the wedding and they couldn’t say no. We have to have three receptions now — one in Kolkata, one in Azamgarh, UP, where my husband is from, and one in Mumbai for my friends from the Bhojpuri film industry. 
 
 
 
 When I was in the house, I had only two best friends — Manu and Manveer. But ever since we came out of the house, our schedules have been crazy. Maintaining the friendship is difficult now. They are from different cities. Although, I am in touch with Manu through messages, I’ve had no communication with Manveer. I don’t even have his number! He won the show, so I’m guessing he’s very busy with work assignments now. 
 
 
 
 No, they don’t exist in my life anymore — I have deleted them. Swami Om is a crazy man who can say anything for footage. He should immediately be admitted to a mental hospital where he can seek treatment.
 
 
 
 I’ll be grateful if I’m even offered a Bengali film. I started struggling from Tollywood but I was never lucky enough to land a big-banner film. I will lap up any good film that I’m offered. I would love to work with Dev. He is an amazing dancer and a superb actor. His fanbase is crazy. 
 
 
 
 It’s just a coincidence that soon after one reality show, I was offered another. We are newly married and audiences loved our chemistry. They related to us so much that many even cried during my wedding rituals! Right now I’m wrapping up my pending Bhojpuri films. I’m also getting offers to do daily soaps but what I’m really looking forward to is a meaty role in a Bengali film. 
 
