MEERUT: In one of the worst accidents in west UP in recent times, around 40 people were feared killed in   when an overloaded boat capsized in the swollen   on Thursday.

 DM Bhawani Singh said, “The boat was carrying 55-60 people. In all, 19 bodies have been fished out by divers while 11 have been rescued. A few others may have swum to safety.“ Till late evening there was no trace of the rest and they were all declared missing. Angry villagers alleging lethargic response from the administration resorted to stone-pelting and arson on the   road. A truck and a police vehicle were set on fire while another vehicle that belonged to the district administration was badly damaged.
 
 A few mediapersons and cops were also injured in the violence that followed.
 
 Amit Kumar, a villager, said, “Rescue teams arrived at the scene very late. They only fished out bodies and the rest were given up for dead. Even those who survived had to fend for themselves with some help from villagers. When the administration began to take credit for the rescue work, the villagers and victims' kin were angered even more and resorted to violence.“
 
 Krishan Pal, a Baghpat resident who accompanied one of the survivors to  's Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College, told TOI, “Some 600 people use these boats to cross the river every day as the nearest bridge is 18km away . A new one, which is closer, is under construction. In order to maximize profit, boatmen always try to pack in as many passengers as possible. For villagers, there is no choice. The boat mostly carries women who go to Sonepat in Haryana on the other side in search of work as daily wage labourers.
 
 Heavy police force from other districts has been deployed in the area.
 
 Later in the day, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed shock and grief over the tragedy and announced through a tweet a compensation of Rs 2 lakh each to the nearest kin of the deceased. A probe has also been ordered.
 
 Baghpat MP and Union MoS for human resources development, Satyapal Singh, too rushed to the spot after hearing about the deaths.
 
