MUMBAI: Nine years after a six-year-old died in Jogeshwari when her school van caught fire, a Motor Accident Claims Tribunal has ordered the vehicle owner to pay a compensation of Rs 4.19 lakh to her parents who had moved the tribunal.

 The tribunal said it was proved that the child's death was caused because of the use of the vehicle.Hence, the owner was liable to pay compensation. Calculating the amount, the tribunal listed Rs 2.25 lakh for loss of the child's future income, Rs 5,000 towards funeral expense and Rs 2,000 for loss of estate.The total amount of Rs 2.32 lakh also attracted interest of 9% from 2008, bringing the total amount to Rs 4.19 lakh.
 
 The compensation claim was filed on July 10, 2008, by victim Hadika Shaikh's Borivli-based parents.Hadika was one of the six kinder garten students of Millat School who were killed in Jogeshwari (West) when the white Maruti van that used to ferry students from the northern suburbs caught fire in 2008.
 
 The order was passed ex parte as the defence was not present. In 2011, vehicle owner Zubir Qureshi and his brother Rafique, who was driving the van at the time of the accident, were acquitted by a sessions court on charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder.
 
 On January 28, 2008, at 12.55 pm, the van carrying the children had just entered the school compound when it caught fire. One of the school trustees who was present rushed to it on hearing shouts of `fire, fire'.He found that the driver was trying to get the trapped children out of the van. Three children died in the vehicle itself. Hadika succumbed to her injuries at Cooper hospital along with two others. Five survived, but suffered severe burn injuries. The case was registered with the Oshiwara police station and the Qureshi brothers were initially booked for negligence. The charge was later enhanced to the more stringent culpable homicide not amounting to murder and the brothers were tried. The cops had claimed that the incident occurred due to a gas cylinder blast in the vehicle. However, most of the 11 witnesses examined did not support the prosecution's case. Even the parents of the children had filed affidavits claiming that the driver was not responsible.
 
 The court pointed out to a portion of the accident report form which said that the incident `may' be due to a spark or fire from faulty wiring in the electrical system of the vehicle which had come in direct contact with the fuel. It held that the prosecution failed to prove this and the allegations that the brothers did not take proper care of the vehicle.
 
