JALANDHAR: Rebellion has started within the Congress in   -- a very crucial district for the party in the  , from where the party expects and desperately needs to perform better -- over allotment of ticket to former Improvement Trust chairman Tejinder Singh Bittu. Four sitting Congress councillors, around 10 former councillors, and about 10 office-bearers, all owing allegiance to former minister Avtar Henry sent in their resignations to Punjab Congress president, while levelling serious allegations against Bittu.

 Henry and his supporters have been demanding a ticket for his son Bawa Henry, and for a few days, they also held a show of strength. On Thursday also, as Congress released its third list, a few hundred supporters of Henry reached his office. However, Henry -- who represented the constituency three times in the past, but lost the last two elections -- told TOI that he would take a decision only after consulting his supporters.
 
 When former Congress MP Sandeep Dixit went to meet Henry at his office, the latter’s supporters vented out their anger, and publicly termed Bittu “a SAD agent, having close business ties with revenue minister Bikram Singh Majithia. They also alleged that Bittu’s ties with top SAD brass were clear to one and all, and in 2007 also, the ticket to him from Jalandhar Central constituency -- while denying the ticket to the then sitting MLA Raj Kumar Gupta -- had damaged the party in almost the entire Doaba region, once a stronghold of the party. They said Bittu was never active in the constituency, and even pointed out that he had applied for a ticket from Jalandhar Central and Jalandhar Cantt, but never from Jalandhar North.
 
 These leaders owing allegiance to Henry also reiterated their allegations before the media. The rebels served a two-day ultimatum to the party high command to change its decision. Those who resigned included sitting councillors Des Raj Jassal, Reena Kaur, Dalwinder Kaur, abd Dr Pardeep Rai, along with PPCC secretaries Balwant Shergill, and Brajesh Bhatti. 
 
