PATNA: One youth died while another was injured when police opened fire in self defence after a violent mob attacked them after surrounding from all side at a village Hawidih under   in Darbhanga on Monday.

 The deceased has been identified as Vijay Ram (22) while the injured girl has been identified as   (17). Both were rushed to   and Hospital (DMCH) after the firing incident. DMCH superintendent Dr   said that Vijay was declared brought dead while Sudarika had received bullet injury in her thigh and is suffering a fractured femur.
 
 Sources said Vijay received a bullet injury on back of left shoulder. He was provided emergency treatment at Benipur from where he was referred to DMCH but died on the way.
 
 When asked, Benipur SDPO Anjani Kumar confirming about the police firing, said “Report of one villager getting injured in police firing has been received and he was rushed to DMCH”.
 
 Sources said that more than eight policemen were also injured as the mob of villagers started pelting stone on the police team stationed inside a burial ground at the village. A riot control vehicle was reduced to ashes while several other police vehicles were damaged by the mob. A journalist has also been reported to be injured in the violence.
 
 According to the sources, tension built-up between two communities in the village after a majority community locked entrance of a burial ground in the village on Sunday evening.
 
 “One Mohammad Ali Hassan died on Sunday and due to the locking of the entrance of burial ground, the deceased’s family members failed to perform his last rites,” said a source adding that the huge number of police force and administration official were camping at the village from Sunday night.
 
 Sources said that after pacifying the villagers, the lock was opened on Monday morning and Hassan’s family was brought back at the ground for performing last rites when villagers rushed towards the ground from all sides and started pelting stone.
 
 “Several senior officers of district administration and police were present inside the ground when the villagers started stone pelting after which police had to open fire,” they said.
 
 Sources also said that people from majority community were upset after land filling process of their cremation ground was stopped sometime back. “The cremation and the burial ground are adjacent to each other,” they said adding that they were demanding to restart the filling process only after which they would open the burial ground.
 
 Security personnel from several neighbouring police stations have been deployed in Hawidih and surrounding villages.
 
