The character of Sooraj in the serial   has made actor Vivek Gopan a heartthrob among the Malayalam TV audiences. 

 The positive character, that of an ideal man, is the husband of   donned by actress Gayatri Arun. Having completed more than 1,200 episodes of the show, Vivek says that his debut serial has moulded the actor in him. We catch up with Vivek for a quick chat about his acting journey, viewers’ responses, his love for sports and more.
  
 
 
 Though I made my acting debut through the Priyadarshan film Arabiyum Ottakavum P Madhavan Nayarum, it was Sooraj in Parasparam which got me noticed as an actor. I came to know about the casting call for the serial through a friend and just gave it a try. I forwarded my CV and photos to Jayakumar sir, the producer and attended the auditions. But I never expected the lead role! It was my first experience as a hero but it was really challenging for the first six months. My wife used to watch Hindi serials and after hearing the plot she told me that it sounded like the Malayalam remake of Diya Aur Baati Hum. So for reference I started watching it with her to get familiar with the mannerisms of Sooraj in it. But the serial is entirely different from ours and I was not able to connect with the character. 
 
 
 
 For the past four years I have been giving life to Sooraj on screen and he has moulded the actor and human being in me. I am very much synched with the role now and with just one reading of the script, I can perform the scene in one take. Earlier I had a starting trouble when I come back to shoot after a schedule gap but not anymore. The serial has polished my acting skills. I was a short tempered person, completely opposite to Sooraj in the serial. But the character has helped me eliminate that bad quality in me (laughs). 
 
 
 
 Though Parasparam is my first serial, I receive lots of compliments for it. I guess what makes Sooraj loveable for the viewers is that he is an ideal son, husband and a brother which every family wishes to have. Nowadays it is rare to find that kind of respect between brothers in families; the present generation has an eda-poda relationship with their siblings. Also the serial promotes a lot of positive ideas including girl’s education and career. I have come across many youngsters, especially girls, who say “enikkum Deepthiye pole IPS akanam”.
 
 My audience, especially elderly women, make me feel like I am a member of their family. Around a year ago we had to shoot a few outdoor scenes near the Vellayani Devi Temple, Trivandrum. From the crowd an elderly woman came to me with her family and said that I am like her son, giving me a kiss on my forehead. She did it with so much love; it was the most precious moment in my life and the best compliment I ever received.
 
 
 
 Yes, I am of the opinion that there should me male-centric serials as well on Malayalam TV. I wish shows come up with a man as the main lead, in a positive role. In serials here the heroine is always highlighted. Why don’t we give a chance for a male protagonist as well?
 I wish I was given a chance to portray the lead in the serial Kayamkulam Kochunniyude Makan. Such roles will give an actor a chance to explore his acting capacity.
 
 
 
 I entered acting via cricket. I have been a left-hand spinner and was part of the Kerala’s Under-19 cricket team. I have also played at the national level for school tournaments. I was a player in Priyadarshan sir’s club team and was also the man of the match in one of the celebrity cricket matches. But now with a tight serial schedule I am not able to play cricket and I miss it. My new hobby is rifle shooting. I have joined the Kottayam District Rifle Association and have participated in district and state level competitions also.
 
 
 
 I receive a lot of small screen projects but my focus is on acting in films. It doesn’t mean that I won’t do serials. Currently I am committed to Parasparam and as its schedules are tight, I am not able to commit to other projects. Talks are on for two film projects as well.
 I played a negative role in Priyadarshan sir’s Bollywood film Kamaal Damaal Malamaal. I wish to do more of such roles with grey shades. For me language is not a barrier in cinema and I believe that it’s purely the skill of an actor that makes him excel. 
 
