Trichy:   have alleged that nationalised banks have been violating a circular by the Lead Bank authorities requesting them neither to put pressure on farmers to remit their dues nor debit money from the relief fund credited by the government to their accounts for recovering their loan. 

 They lament that since many nationalised banks continued their recovery process, farmers have been unable to commence agriculture activities. They urged the Reserve Bank of India to instruct the bankers to adhere to the circular. 
 
 With the entire Tamil Nadu being seriously affected by   during 2016-17 and agriculture taking the brunt of it, farmers have been demanding waiver of all debts. 
 
 They had written to the Prime Minister demanding stoppage of loan recovery actions and waiving all pending agricultural loans which would help the farmers tide over drought fury and enable prevention of suicide by farmers.
 
 State-level bankers committee was also instructed in a letter dated May 11 not to pressurise the farmers in any form to recover their dues. However, despite the circular, some nationalized banks continued to humiliate them by issuing notices asking to repay their debts, alleged Puliyur A Nagarajan, state organizer of the farmers’ wing of Tamil Manila Congress. 
 
 “We took the matter to the district collector and appealed to him to help the starving farmers by instructing bankers not to disturb them. However, some bankers continue to threaten farmers asking them to repay loan amounts”, he alleged.
 
 A group of farmers met district lead bank manager and explained the reality. He told them that Indian Overseas Bank had not disturbed any farmers. But, he had no control over other banks’ activities to issue an order to do something, Nagarajan added.
 
 In nationalised banks, the amount credited in the farmer’s savings bank account as relief fund would automatically be debited to compensate their dues. This has been happening across delta districts, alleged Swamimalai R Vimalnathan, secretary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association. 
 
 “It amounts to contempt of Supreme Court order and also violation of the RBI instruction. District administrations are incapable of dealing with the issue. If the situation prevails, we have no option but to protest in front of nationalised banks”, he added.
 
 
