INDORE: In a first of its kind dispute in the city, displaced residents of   alleged they are being discriminated on the basis of caste and class by residents of Vidhyachal Nagar; and that the residents want to erect a wall on a public road, block their entry into the posh colony and to ‘separate’ them.

 While they were being discriminated against right from the time they moved to the area into flats provided by IMC. The matter escalated after some people on Tuesday came to demarcate a line for building a wall. The people told the residents that they were sent by the civic body.
 
 “They said the corporator of the area had sent them and started drawing a line in front of our building. We have told them we will demolish the wall every time they build a new one,” said Mamata Gupta, one of the displaced residents living in the IMC flats.
 
 After the flat owners staged a protest in the area, the old residents went back. The new residents of the area said that they had a word with the corporator who refused to help them.
 
 “We do not deserve this, we are being treated like untouchables. We have lost our homes. We are not living here by our own choice. At least the corporator should not indulge in this sort of  . It has become difficult for us to live here,” said Pradeep Gupta, a resident of the allotted flat.
 
 The old residents of the area however refuted the claims of discrimination but agreed that they have proposed to build a wall to block them from entering into the colony.
 
 “We do not have any grudge against them. We do not discriminate against them on any basis. Some of the families are good but most of them create nuisance, this has put our safety at stake,” said  , president,Vindyachal Nagar Rehwasi Sangh.
 
 Agarwal said that the displaced residents made a noise after drinking late night. He even alleged that women in the area started feeling unsafe after the colony’s new residents shifted in. “Some families who lived on rent have vacated because of them,” Agarwal said.
 
 The residents however have not registered any complaint in this regard with the police. “If we make a wall, they will have a separate road, this will make both sides happy,” Agarwal said.
 
 Both parties claimed that everything in the area was happening with the approval of the corporator Deepak Jain. However Jain refuted such claims. “I have not given permission to build any wall. I have no knowledge of the matter. I will talk to both parties and come to a solution,” Jain said.
 
 
