VADODARA: He was on the run for over one-and-half years after being accused of rape and murder of a minor in Vyara town of Tapi. Twenty-six-year-old   was finally nabbed by the government railway police (GRP) from Bihar on Sunday and brought to Gujarat. Mahato had allegedly raped a 16-year-old girl who too was a resident of Bihar and was travelling with him to Surat in August 2015. 

 Though Mahato has reportedly admitted to have murdered the girl out of rage, the cops suspect role of five other persons in the case. “The girl’s body was found on the loop line near Vyara police station on August 3, 2015. She was raped and then her throat was slit. During investigations, the police had found a railway ticket in possession of the girl and a mobile number was written on its backside,” said  , western railway SP. 
 
 The GRP traced the number and found that it belonged to Mahato. When a team visited his village in Bihar, he had gone missing. GRP suspects that some local cops may have tipped him off. “During investigations, we learnt that the deceased girl was earlier gang raped by five men from her village in Bihar in 2014. She had lodged a complaint against them but none of them was arrested. In fact, the police there had filed A final report and said that the accused weren’t traceable,” Singhal told TOI.
 
 The girl’s father told the police that after the gang rape, he had sent his girl to Gujarat with Mahato to ensure that she was safe. But Mahato raped her and then slashed her throat with a knife. “We tracked down Mahato with the help of  , SP of Bettia in Bihar as he put his technical team to work,” Singhal said. Mahato told the police that he killed her as she kept insisting to return to her home in Bihar and it enraged him. The cops, however, believe that Mahato isn’t revealing the real reason behind the murder.
 
 “It is possible that the five, who gang raped this girl, may have asked Mahato to bump her off. Or they themselves may have travelled to Gujarat to commit the crime. We will now interrogate Mahato and track down those five rape accused to ascertain the reason behind the murder,” Singhal added.
 
 
