BEGUSARAI: Kick-starting his ‘Adhikar Yatra’ on Saturday, CPI(ML) general secretary   lashed out at Nitish Kumar government in Bihar for failing miserably on different fronts, especially education, employment and land reforms.
 
  “These issues form the core of social justice upon which the Nitish government had come to power with an anti-BJP mandate after the last assembly elections in 2015. Yet, the government has completely failed to deliver on these issues,” Dipankar said.
  
  “Instead, large-scale corruption infests the educational system in the state as was evident from the recent Bihar Staff Selection Commission examinations. What’s worse is that people in power allegedly protect those running such scams,” he said, adding that instances of crime against poor and Dalit people have increased alarmingly across the state.
  
  “In Begusarai itself, as many as five Dalit activists of the party were killed last year. Similarly, two CPI(ML) leaders were killed in Araria for opposing feudal elements, forcing poor Dalit families to vacate their plots of land,” he said, adding that similar incidents occurred in Saharsa and other districts showing vulnerability of the poor and the Dalits.
  
  He further said while all this is happening, the CM was busy in gimmicks like   which holds no sense considering the poor state of affairs and social exploitation of poor and Dalits in the state.
  
  Dipankar did not spare the   led central government either. Hitting out at PM Narendra Modi for demonetisation of old Rs500 and Rs1,000 notes and the hardships and difficulties to the poor, he said the ill-conceived move left the poor and daily labourers jobless. Besides, it hit peasants and small traders very hard. He hoped the results of assembly elections in the five states would be a mandate against the current policies of the BJP-led government.
  
  Members of the party said the weeklong   aims at seeking mass support for the CPI(ML) rally in Patna on February 19. The yatra will pass through Khagaria, Katihar, Purnia, Araria, Saharsa and Darbhanga before reaching the state capital on February 17.
