AGRA: In a major setback to the UP government, the   on Thursday ordered a   probe into the   violence that claimed 29 lives, including that of two police officials, and left over 100 injured in Mathura on June 2 last, following a botched operation to evict cult leader,   and his Swadhin Bharat Vidhik Satyagrah followers.
 
 The order was pronounced by a division bench, comprising Chief Justice D B Bhosle and Justice Yashwant Verma, while disposing off a bunch of PILs demanding a CBI probe into the violence and the circumstances leading to the unlawful occupation of public land (Jawahar Bagh), worth about Rs 5000 crore, by the self-styled cult leader Ram Vriksh Yadav and his followers. The court had heard the arguments of the petitioners and the state government and had reserved its judgement on February 20. 
 
 The bench has given the CBI two months time to prove the violence and the state government's inaction and submit a sealed report to the court. 
 
 Among those who had moved the court for a CBI inquiry are Delhi-based BJP leader and Supreme Court lawyer Ashwini Upadhyay and Mathura resident Vijay Pal Singh Tomar. In January, interlocutory applications were also filed by Archana Dwivedi and  , wife and brother respectively of the slain Mathura SP, Mukul Dwivedi.
  
 The CBI inquiry has been ordered despite the fact that a judicial probe, ordered by the state government, is already underway. In fact, Chief Minister   had strongly opposed suggestions for a CBI probe on the plea that his government had full faith in its investigating agencies.
 
 Talking to TOI, petitioner, Ashwani Upadhyay, welcomed the High Court order and said the violence at Jawahar Bagh was not an ordinary law and order issue. He said a CBI investigation was necessary as a comprehensive, complete, credible, impartial and independent investigation was not expected from the State Police, because of involvement of Member of Parliament Ram Gopal Yadav and Cabinet Minister Shiv Pal Yadav, both family members of CM Akhilesh Yadav. 
  
 He said police investigations would not have instilled confidence among victim families and public at large due to the complex nature of the war of succession and the grave conspiracy of political-cult nexus for land grabbing. 
  
 When contacted, Praful Dwivedi, also welcomed the court order and said truth would now emerge. He said “we” have confirmed reports that the eviction operation was planned for June 4 but JCB machines were used to break the park’s boundary wall on June 2 itself. “Who ordered this action two days before the scheduled operation”, he said while adding that many questions relating to the illegal occupation of the park and the botched operation remain unanswered.
  
 Expressing hope that the CBI would look into all the aspects relating to the case, Praful said though inquiries were being conducted at the local level and also by the one man Judicial Commission, nothing had come out in these nine months.
  
 Archana Dwivedi, wife of the slain SP, also welcomed the court’s decision and expressed the hope of fair outcome. She said nothing had been done in the last nine months and a CBI probe into all the aspects of the case would now reveal the truth, ensuring justice to the victims’ families and punishment to the guilty. She said the emergence of the truth behind the illegal occupation of the park and the events of June 2would be a “real tribute” to her slain husband.
  
 According to the PIL filed by Upadhyay, the squatters would not have been able to occupy the park for around two-and-a-half years without the State’s cooperation. It said more than 80 intelligence reports were sent to the government but no appropriate action was taken.
  
 The PIL stated, “Ram Vriksh, a self-styled politician, contested Assembly elections from the Zahoorabad in 1984 and Parliamentary elections from Gazipur in 1991 and campaigned in support of Sh. Akshay Yadav, the Cousin of Hon’ble CM during 2014 general election. With the blessings of a powerful politician, district authorities could not muster the courage of getting the Public Park evicted”.
  
 The PIL also raised questions about funding to squatters. “For over two years, all those staying there were being provided three meals a day, and this would be impossible without a strong financer”. The PIL stated, “CBI comes under the ambit of Union of India and outside the ambit and reach of the State authorities and State administration, who have allowed such a large scale massacre to take place and would not be able to influence the investigation”.
  
 It may be recalled that UP government had in January 2014 granted permission to Ram Vriksh Yadav's organization to hold a demonstration inside Jawahar Bagh for two days. However, members of the group went on to occupy the sprawling public park for more than two years.
  
 According to some reports, the park had been virtually converted into a "quasi republic" with its own currency and penal system and people staying there had been issued ration cards and cooking gas cylinders with Jawahar Bagh as their address.
  
 Following the June 2 violence, a search of the park had unearthed a huge cache of arms and ammunition.
 
