KOLKATA
 Renowned tea planter from Assam’s  , who has been named the new chairman of the   of India last week, is also the first non-IAS and an industry insider to be at the helm of the Kolkata-headquartered statutory governing body. He replaced  , a joint secretary in the Union commerce ministry, who had been operating as the acting chairman since June 2015.
 
  Bezbaruah, 58, owner of Bokahola Tea Co, which manages around 12 gardens in   with an annual output of 55 lakh kg, will be first full-time chairman after a gap of four years. He started his career as a banker in the US after finishing his masters in finance from the  .
  
  In his first full-length interview after taking charge on Tuesday, Bezboruah tells TOI about his thoughts on bringing back the golden years of the Indian tea industry and plans to get over the trying times of stagnant pricing and ever-rising input costs, labour wage row and social costs. Excerpts.
  
  
  
  Maintaining quality of green leaf in terms of fine-ness, stress on value-added export, generic promotion of tea within the country, reduction of pesticide load and regulation of new plantation in reserve forest areas will be my areas of priority. I want to bring in a different perspective from my 29 years of industry experience which may boost the board’s policies and programmes.
  
  
 
  
  Actually, a plantation sector like tea is fragmented and very heterogeneous in terms of viability of the gardens. It is also the largest rural employer in India. Thus, some degree of government control is unavoidable.
  
  
  
  Tea Board is funding   (TRA, Bezbaruah also heads it) to work on climate resilience. Higher COP can only be offset by adoption of new technology and by raising productivity. We are working on identifying those cultivars from existing germplasm that are climate-resilient. The project is just three years old and findings will be disseminated by 2018-end.
  
  
 
  
  There may be an influx of Nepal green leaf. However, I don’t see a major volume of finished product being smuggled into India from Nepal. The green leaf issue has to be solved by self-regulation.
  
  
 
  
  I don't think we can stop Nepal-made tea from entering India. If unscrupulous producers are buying this and remarking it as Darjeeling or buying Nepal green leaf and selling it as Darjeeling, it seems to me to be a police issue. The laws are already in place.
  
  
 
  
  We cannot have the same prescription for all the closed gardens which are closed due to owners’ malpractices, structural issues like huge work force, natural calamities like erosion and flood etc. The different reasons need different tailor-made solutions. The plan will have to be worked out. A simplistic answer won’t serve the purpose.
  
  
  
  Improvement of quality will solve this problem of oversupply. Also we should ensure that new plantation is not subsidised in view of oversupply. We’ll try and convince the Centre for providing fund-backed generic promotion but industry, too, needs to contribute its fair share for such initiatives.
  
  
 
  
  The platform upon which all auctions are functioning was paid for and continues to be paid for by tea board, hence the interference. Also, TMCO (Tea Marketing Control Order) mandates the board to manage the primary sale of tea. Since the industry keeps on running to the government for assistance every time there is a downswing. It is only natural that the government will keep a control over these aspects.
  
  
 
  
  Only the rates of high-priced teas dropped in price. This happened due to a reduction in the demand for quality teas from some major blenders due to their blend rationalisation and profit maximisation initiatives, as the unit profits from lower priced packets was found to be higher. We hope that there will be a correction this year and that quality will pay once again.
  
  
 
  
  No, workers are used to many of these facilities and withdrawing them will lead to unrest. However, there should be better monitoring to ensure uniform delivery of these benefits by all gardens.
  
  
 
  
  It is a challenge but if industry contributes to its strength, it will not be impossible. A thrust on speciality teas and value-added products and improving our quality standards and food safety compliance would help. Better plucking, better planting materials, right agricultural practices, safer plant protection techniques and packaging and a better strategy of making it aspirational will uplift Indian tea’s brand image.
  
  
 
  
  I will try to ensure a higher price for good quality green leaf bought from small tea growers (STG). So that the premium for green leaf increases against sub-standard leaf. We will help STGs build a good marketing network to sell their produce.
