GAYA: The three persons, who were arrested by the police during large scale campus vandalism on Wednesday, have been charged with attempting to kill   ( ) officials during Wednesday’s   meeting. The trio were on Thursday remanded in 14-day judicial custody by the court of additional chief judicial magistrate. 

 SHO of MU police station Abuzar Ansari said the trio – Rana Pratap, Vinay Chaudhary and Shankar Kumar – have been charged under six sections of the IPC, including section 307 (attempt to murder) and section 353 (causing obstruction in the discharge of duty by public servants). Both these sections are of non-bailable. While Rana Pratap is a student, Shankar Kumar is said to be linked with one of the disaffiliated institutions. Personal details of Vinay Chaudhary are not known.
 
 Meanwhile, MU campus, the scene of large scale vandalism that witnessed pitched battle between the protestors opposing the disaffiliation of several institutions and the police forces on Wednesday, limped back to normal on Thursday. Several cops as well as protestors, including former MLA Sheo Bachan Yadav, were injured in stone pelting and subsequent lathicharge.
 
 Offices and PG departments functioned normally on Thursday. Though some people burnt the effigy of vice-chancellor Qamar Ahsan in front of his official residence, no untoward incident was reported from the university campus.
 
 Refusing to be cowed down by violent protesters, the VC said the decision to disaffiliate 41 colleges and ban teaching in some subjects in 17 other colleges, was final and irrevocable. “Now that the Senate, the apex policy making body of the university has approved the disaffiliation notification, the decision has got finality,” said the VC.
 
 Earlier, MLC Nawal Kishore Yadav, representative of the Bihar legislative council in the   urged the university authorities to re visit the disaffiliation issue and provide relief to the sponsors of these institutions. The VC, in the Senate meet, refused to budge on the issue.
 
 Meanwhile, the university, backed by a Senate resolution, has put embargo on issuance of   to proposed BEd colleges. The university would also be tightening noose around the 90 BEd colleges which were earlier granted NOC. The university authorities have decided to be firm on the issue of quality education and financial transparency. The practice of study-less degree has been rampant in several BEd colleges.
 
 Aadhaar-based biometric attendance system too will be introduced in the university headquarters as well as the colleges.
 
