BHOPAL: Construction of a jetty in the ecologically sensitive   led to   between local Congress corporator   and district administration officials here on Saturday. Zaki staged a protest late on Saturday alleging the construction was unauthorised. Administration denied her allegations. 

 “The construction is in violation of rules. NGT cites no construction along 50-metres from the full-tank level. This construction is within that zone,” said Zaki.
 
 A new jetty by sports department is being constructed to facilitate access to water. It is likely to have a shed too. In the same area, recently fishes died in large numbers. Green activists have been critical of the increased commercial activities in the area. 
 
 An unreleased report by Ahmedabad based Centre for Environmental Planning and Technology (CEPT) on Upper Lake master plan has factored in mayor encroachments along the Upper Lake and could goes against the government stance on permitting constructions along the Upper Lake.
 
 District administration official SDM Atul Singh reached the Boat Club on Saturday. Singh reportedly had a heated argument with Zaki and other protesters. 
 
 “The sport department has acquired all the requisite permission from environment department and municipal corporation,” said Singh.
 
 When contacted BMC commissioner Chhavi Bhardwaj said that the civic body had given an NoC subject to environmental clearances from relevant departments. 
 
 Sources said that environmental clearances for the new jetty is based on impact assessment study submitted by the sports department. 
 
 The spate of constructions along Upper Lake and other water bodies come as the state government is yet to make public a report by Ahmedabad based Centre for Environmental Planning and Technology (CEPT). A draft of the report released by CEPT, has identified main factors of pollution of the Upper Lake include improper disposal of human generated and domestic and kitchen waste, lack of awareness on organic farming, low forest cover and encroachment and illegal constructions in the catchment area of the Upper Lake.
 
 Sources said that CEPT report has factored in mayor encroachments along the Upper Lake and go against the government stance on permitting many constructions along the Upper Lake.
 
 
