NEW DELHI: In the face of a 
  , China has been overstating its population number for decades, a US academic said this week, according to China Banking News.

 Beijing's numbers suggest China has 90 million more people than it actually has, according to data compiled by  , a University of Wisconsin-Madison researcher.
 
 "The concealing of a Chinese demographic slump by over-optimistic government projections is ongoing," said Yi at a conference in China this week.
 
 That means India, not China, is the world's most populous nation. That also means China is in big trouble because its demography isn't changing rapidly enough to combat a shrinking working-age population that has been declining since 2012.
 
 Yi said China has been consistently overstating its number of births for as long as 26 years, from 1990 to 2016. His research suggested there were 377.6 million new births from 1991 to 2016, less than the official figure of 464.8 million.
 
 If Yi is right, it means 
  at the end of 2016 was 1.29 billion and not 1.38 billion. That would mean India - with a population of 1.33 billion - isn't just ahead of China now, but has been so for years.   touched 1.33 billion last year, compared with China's official figure of 1.37 billion in 2015.
 
 Other researchers at this week's conference in China's Peking University agreed with Yi's numbers, reported the South China Morning Post. They argued that China is desperately in need of more rather than fewer births. They also called for the removal of population controls in China and for improved data quality.
 
 "The government has overestimated the birth rate and underestimated the speed of demographic changes," said Li Jianxin, a demographer at Peking University and vocal opponent of China's family planning policy, according to the South China Morning Post.
 
 Another researcher at the Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences said China's data has been "seriously false" for decades. 
 
 "The population data since the adaption of one-child policy has been seriously false and the family planning report has been overstated by 30 per cent," said the Shanghai researcher Liang Zhongtang.
 
  "The birth control policy which has last(ed) nearly four decades is not in accordance with reality. It is imperative that the government should abandon the family planning system," he added, according to the Post.
 
