GURUGRAM: People living in major parts of old Gurugram may heave a sigh of relief this summer with Huda augmenting the   network to increase the amount of   provided to the entire zone.

 The new  , which was inaugurated on Sunday by Gurugram MLA Umesh Agrawal, has the   to supply 16 million gallons per day (MGD) of water. Thus, the quantity of water supplied to the area will shoot up to around 30MGD from the existing 14MGD, meeting the increased demands of this high density area.
 
 The 15km-long pipeline starts from   (WTP), passes through various sectors of Old   and finally culminates at Sector 23. The areas to benefit include sectors 21, 22, 23, Palam Vihar and 65 colonies, namely Madan Puri, Baldev Nagar, Jyoti Park, New Colony, Firoz Gandhi Colony, Devilal Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Shivaji Nagar, Shakti Nagar, Veer Nagar, Jacabpura, Mianwali Colony etc.
 
 “To start with, we are supplying only around 7-8 MGD of water through the new pipeline now, in addition to the 14MGD supplied through the existing line,” said sub-divisional engineer, Huda, Vijednra Malik. “However, the supply through the new pipeline can be increased up to 16MGD depending on the demand.”
 
 The old pipeline was laid way back in 1992 to meet the daily requirements of the Old Gurgaon areas. But, over the years, population has increased significantly, and the old pipeline was unable to meet the increased demands. As a result, many colonies, which came up at the end of the supply line during the past couple of decades, were receiving erratic supply.
 
 Malik said the work on the new pipeline, which runs parallel to the existing one, had started in 2016. The work had got stalled for a few months due to a delay in getting permission from the railways. “A portion of the pipeline passes under the railway tracks in Basai. Finally, MLA Umesh Agrawal helped get the necessary permission from the railways and complete the project fast,” he added.
 
 The Huda is also laying a new pipeline for new sectors from 58-115 to supply from Chandu Budhera WTP. “We have completed around 90% of the work. The remaining work is delayed to due to some hurdles related to land acquisition,” said Malik. 
 
 The city had been getting around 90MGD of water, of which 70MGD was supplied from Basai water plant while the remaining 20MGD came from Chandu Budhera plant. Now, Basai will supply an additional 16MGD through the new pipeline. 
 
 The Basai and Chandu Budhera plants get Yamuna water from Kakroi village in Sonipat through Gurgaon Water Channel and NCR Channel. 
 
 
