AGRA: Notwithstanding the SP-Congress tie-up in UP, candidates of the alliance partners are pitted against each other in at least eight constituencies across the state, including Koil in Aligarh and Baldeo in Mathura.

 Though the last date of the withdrawal of candidates for the first phase polling ended on Friday,   candidates in Koil (Aligarh) and Baldeo (Mathura) have refused to back out, despite these constituencies going to the SP’s share in the seat sharing agreement. Adding to the troubles of the alliance partners, workers of the two parties are still are reluctant to work together and this problem seems all pervasive in the Braj region, Congress supporters are not campaigning for SP candidates and vice-versa.
 
 In Koil Congress candidate, Vivek Bansal, did not withdraw his candidature as he got the nod from Congress high command today and seems all set to take on SP’s, Ajju Ishaq. In Baldeo Congress’s Vinesh Sonwal is pitted against SP’s Ranveer Dhangar.
 
 Talking to TOI,   district president, Ashok Yadav said he had received information that such confusion on seats exists in at least eight seats. He said efforts were on to resolve the matter.
 
 Vivek Bansal, who is also the national spokesperson of the Congress said his seat was announced by the high command and hence he is the official candidate. He said since the party had announced his candidature, the SP cannot stake a claim on it.
 
 In regards to Baldeo seat, district president of Samajwadi party, Mathura, Tanveer Ahmad said congress candidate, Vinesh Sonwal, had agreed to withdraw his nomination but somehow he could not reach on time to complete the formalities. He said the issue would be resolved.
 
 Teething troubles of co-ordination between the workers of the alliance partners are adding to problem of the official candidates in several constituencies. Admitting that the workers of the two parties are still reluctant to work for each other, CLP leader, Pradeep Mathur said a joint meeting is being organised and senior party leaders including AICC secretary, Zubair Khan, a senior leader, Pramod Tewari and Deepender Hooda would be present in it. He said these issues would be resolved at the earliest to ensure that the alliance does not suffer.
 
 Congress district president of Agra, Dushyant Sharma said their workers were harassed by the SP and its cadres and perhaps that’s why they don’t want to work with them now. He said senior party leaders were trying to resolve the issue and hopefully everything would be smoothened soon.
 
 Samajwadi party’s Agra incharge, Vipul Purohit said primarily it’s the ticket aspirants, who lost their chance to contest the polls due to seat sharing arrangement, and their supporters who are showing the reluctance. He said the party would deal strictly with such indiscipline and everyone would have to fall in line and work for the victory of the official candidate of the alliance.
  
 A senior Samajwadi party leader said the feud in the Yadav family had created a wedge among cadres and those who were aligned with Shivpal are now creating the problems. He said Shivpal loyalists would never work for the Congress candidates.
 
