PUNE: Soldier  , who attained martyrdom while fighting five Lashkar terrorists at Drug Mulla village in Kashmir's Kupwara district on May 22, 2016, was posthumously awarded Shaurya Chakra on the eve of 68th Republic Day.

 The Shaurya Chakra is ge nerally awarded for counter-insurgency operations and actions against enemy during peacetime. It is the third in order of precedence of peacetime gallantry awards, after   and Kirti Chakra.
 
 Gawade, who hailed from   in Sindhudurg district, had joined the Maratha Light Infantry on September 21, 2001. In 2015, he was shifted to 41 Rashtriya Rifles unit and had participated in multiple anti-militancy operations in the treacherous areas of Kupwara district in 2016.
 
 Gawade is survived by wife Pranjal and sons Pranjwal (5) and Vendant (1). Speaking over the phone on Wednesday , Pranjal said, “I have received several calls from my husband's friends, who are currently serving in the Army , informing me about the award. It is a proud moment. And most impor tantly , a perfect gift for my younger son as it is his birthday today .“
 
 On the day of the incident, Pranjal had received a call from her husband during which he told her that he was involved in an operation. “He used to call me regularly and talk about his duties. On that day , he called me in the morning saying that intense action was going on at his end. He spoke for two minutes only and disconnected the call before promising to call back the next day . Sadly, in the afternoon itself, I came to know about his demise.“ she recalled.
 
 The Gawade family has a rich military tradition. Pandurang's two brothers are serving in the Indian Army .
 
 Pranjal herself is a daughter of retired Army Havaldar.She said, “My grandfather, father and brother have served in the Army , while my two brothers-in-law are in the Army .I am determined to send my sons to the Army .“ Pranjal had last met her husband in February 2016. “He had come home for two weeks after the birth of our younger son,“ she said.
 
 Pranjal added, “He was jovial by nature and was a very caring person“.
 
