PATNA: Eminent academics from across the globe shared their views on the inaugural day of an international seminar on ‘Cohesive development: An alternative paradigm’, organised by A N Sinha Institute of Social Sciences (ANISS) here on Friday. The academics spoke on current trends in markets, civil society and role of capital among other issues. Besides, suggestions were given for more public control on capital.

 The seminar started with welcome address by  , who argued for search of a development paradigm that allows for equity and environmental sustainability.
 
 “The alternative paradigm is not in contradiction with the state or market. The framework for   is based on more cohesive relationship between men and nature. The cohesive development approach is the only precondition of the sustainable development, which the world aims to achieve in the present circumstances. This seminar is aimed at epistemological enquiry and creation of new knowledge base in this direction,” said Ray.
 
 Amiya Bagchi (emeritus professor, Institute of Development Studies, Kolkata) in his inaugural address talked about markets driven by propaganda model aimed at raising consumption. Bagchi pinpointed at snobbery and bandwagon effect leading to increased social consumption of products, which are at times not need-based.
 
 Jan Breman (emeritus professor, University of Amsterdam, Netherlands) delivered the keynote address on ‘Subverting the social questions’, expressing concern over the stark divide between Global North (developed countries) and Global South (developing and underdeveloped nations). Breman said bargaining power of labour has come down drastically and they are not getting benefitted even from migration. 
 
 The inaugural session was followed by two technical sessions – ‘Cohesive development-forging theoretical spaces’ and ‘Tracing cohesive development: From practice to theory’. The scholars presented theoretical arguments and empirical studies around cohesive development during the technical sessions.
 
 In the first session, sociologist Gail Omvedt discussed Jotiba Phule’s perspective on going towards liberated humanity and unbound relation with nature. John M Itty, honorary professor at Vichara School of People’s Economics, Kerala said genuine development is the outcome of application of both physical and social capital.
 
