Coimbatore: For the founder of T V & Bros business conglomerate in the city, Tribhuvandas Vendraban, and his brother Abhaychand March 13, 1941 was a red letter day. Both received a telegram on that day from the father of the nation, Mahatma Gandhi, for stopping animal sacrifice during a temple festival in the city. 

 It was a ritual to sacrifice animals before starting the temple car procession of Koniamman temple . Tribhuvandas and Abhaychand wanted to squelch the practice and requested temple authorities to stop the ritual. When people hesitated, Abhaychand brought his 11-year-old son   and asked him to lie down. He and Tribhuvandas vowed to sacrifice Kanaklal if the temple car did not return safely. As the temple car returned safely, devotees decided to purge the ritual once for all. 
 
 When Gandhiji was informed about this incident, he immediately sent a telegram to the family. Gandhi wrote in the telegram: “Tribhuvandas Vendraban Coimbatore glad animal sacrifice stopped – Gandhi.” 
 
 Kanaklal, now in his eighties, still possesses the telegram and holds it dear. He displayed it at the exhibition held in the city on Monday as part of the   celebrations. 
 
 Nearly 20 volunteers from Lead 2020, a NGO, and Sri Krishna Sweets also got together to source several photographs, stamps and objects from the National Gandhi Museum in Rajghat. 
 
 R Raveendran, a city-based industrialist and one of the main organisers of the exhibition, said Gandhiji visited   more than 20 times. 
 
 “Gandhiji first came to Tamil Nadu in 1896 during his satyagraha struggle in   to gather support for South African Tamils and also to learn Tamil. He even bought a Tamil book from Chennai,” said Raveendran. 
 
 In South Africa, Gandhiji fought for the rights of the Tamil labourers in mines and other fields and many went to jail for the cause trusting him. “Gandhiji was in his late twenties then,” said Raveendran. 
 
 A rare photograph of Gandhiji in Tirupur with Asar Sait taken in 1934 showed Tirupur Kumaran, the great freedom fighter standing behind him in half trouser eager to follow the leader. 
 
 Several such rare photographs of Gandhiji’s visit to Perur, Annur, Sulur, Mettupalayam, Ooty, Coonoor, Kotagiri, Chennai, Madurai, Katpadi, Kanyakumari and other cities and towns of Tamil Nadu with Tamil freedom fighters were on display at the exhibition. 
 
 A memento that was gifted to Gandhiji by P A Chetty and Rathnasabapathy Mudaliar was auctioned in Coimbatore and the Vendraban family bought it to support the freedom struggle. 
 
 The women in the family also offered bangles to Gandhiji for the cause of freedom. He and his wife Kasturba often stayed with the family when he visited the city and a photograph taken with the women of the TV brothers’ family is proof of that connect. 
 
 Several visitors at the exhibition said they were completely unaware that Gandhiji was that close to Tamils and Tamil Nadu. 
 
 “This is definitely an eye-opener,” said Rajesh, a resident. A five-year-old girl said she was very happy her parents brought her to the exhibition as she learnt a lot.
 
 
