After the success of  's 2011 romantic-thriller, 'Saheb, Biwi aur Gangster', featuring Jimmy Sheirgill as Saheb,   as his biwi and   as the ambitious gangster-lover Babloo, the makers rolled out a second installment, 'Saheb, Biwi aur Gangster Returns', two years later, with Jimmy and Mahie reprising their roles and   as the gangster to woo the new biwi, Soha Ali Khan. Now, Mirror has learnt that the franchise is going forward with a new film, tentatively-titled 'Saheb Biwi aur Gangster 3', which will go on the floors in August.While Jimmy and Mahie return for a third outing, the real surprise is `gangster'  . 

 On Saturday, producer-presenter  , director Tigmanshu and the series' writer   met at Mittra's suburban office to finalise details of the story and the shoot, after which Sanjay signed up. The first schedule will be shot in Devgadh Baria, a small town in the foothills of Gujarat's eastern border, 44 km from Godhra. The first two instalments were partially filmed there. This time crucial shots will be taken on the banks of the river Panam and in the town's centre built in a princely style. The film tells the story of a royal family of UP with the reigning royal Aditya Pratap Singh taking up contract killings to maintain his lifestyle and strengthen his power base in view of the upcoming elections. Meanwhile, Madhavi Devi, who is pining for her husband, allows the temporary driver planted by a rival gang to seduce her. Babloo soon becomes a pawn in the biwi's game and is used to get rid of Saheb's mistress. But when he aims his gun on the man himself, he is shot dead with Madhavi stating that he can only be a partner in the bedroom, but not as a Saheb.
 
  
  
 In Part 2, we learnt that Aditya Pratap Singh has survived the attempt on his life but it had left him crippled and wheelchair bound. Embittered by the betrayal of his biwi, who is now the practising MLA, he is drawn to Ranjana, who forces her father to marry her to him. Ranjana has been in love with Indrajeet Singh, a prince who has lost everything but his pride, and pledges to win back his family's respect which was destroyed by Aditya's ancestors, as also his girl. Once again the alcoholic biwi lures him into her bed. The game of live chess, about passion, betrayal, intrigue and deceit returns with a new twist now.
 
 Part 3 takes off from where Part 2 ended and will be mounted on a bigger scale with Sanjay playing a royal too. "He will look, talk and behave like a true royal. His costumes and appearance will be majestic. The world the films are set in will remain the same but Sanjay will be the central character this time. We are adding several new characters and some of them are big names," Mittra told Mirror.
 
 Meanwhile, Sanjay recently wrapped up his comeback film, Omung Kumar's 'Bhoomi', in which he plays father to Aditi Rao Hydari. Soon after, he flew to Dubai for a short break with biwi Maanayata and will now prep for his gangster turn.
 
 
  
  
 
 
