NAGPUR: The city police were on Monday clueless about who shot Maharashtra Control of   (MCOCA) accused Shailendra Singh Lohiya alias Little Sardar twice outside his office at Ashok Chowk on Sunday. Apart from Pachpaoli police, who registered the offence, the crime branch unit too is engaged in the probe but has few answers to the numerous questions swirling around the incident.

 Also, the bewildered cop are nowhere close to ascertaining the motive for the shooting. Even the firearm abandoned after the shooting at Little Sardar‘s office has not led to any clues. Interestingly, the recording machine of the   cameras installed inside the victim’s office too is untraceable.
 
 Senior cops apparently tried to question Little Sardar, recuperating at  , regarding the suspects and possible reason behind the attack for the second time on Monday. However, he denied any knowledge of the reason for the attack, nor did he name any suspects. A senior cop said that Little Sardar claimed he too was left stunned by the suddenness of the attack, which lasted barely a few minutes. Little Sardar sustained bullet injuries on his right knee and on his back.
 
 Some cops feel the firearm, which will be sent for ballistic tests to verify whether it was fired, may have been used by Little Sardar in a counter attack. However, Little Sardar’s friends, who were with him during the firing incident, told the cops that the victim chased the attackers with sticks and not firearms. They also claimed to be clueless about the firearm, a local-made Mauser, found at the crime scene.
 
 The cops also questioned aides of Little Sardar regarding the missing CCTV recorder machine in his office. The aides claimed that the CCTV recorder machine was removed some time ago and not after the incident. But cops feel the recorder could have crucial footage pertaining to the incident.
 
 It was also reliably learnt that some opponents of Little Sardar, including members of Bhullar gang, were questioned. Though Bhullar gang had ‘patched up’ with Little Sardar, the cops still tried to extract information from them. The cops also questioned one Munna Sharma, who co-owns a plot with Little Sardar. It’s learnt that Sardar had a tiff with Sharma over sharing profits.
 
 
