CHENNAI: A day before   presents his maiden budget in the  , experts are of the opinion that the state finances are a shambles and only the Centre can bail it out.The state's revenue deficit is likely to cross Rs16,000 crore and fiscal deficit Rs 40,000 crore.The fiscal deficit as a percentage of the GSDP is threatening to cross 3%, throwing all prescribed norms into the wind. The immediate requirement of the state is drought assistance to the tune of Rs 40,000 crore.

 The increasing revenue deficit at this juncture is due to decreasing revenue and increasing expenditure, said New Delhi-based National Institute of Public Finance and Policy professor N R Bhanumurthy. Things slipped over the last five years and Tamil Nadu got on to the unenviable list of big states with revenue deficit and poor fiscal management. It got worse and the slide became more pronounced on account of lack of governance after the conviction of J Jayalalithaa by the special court in the disproportionate assets case in September 2014. “Tamil Nadu, in the last few years, has not been able to meet the revenue target though the revenue has been increasing every year,“ said Bhanumurthy. The state will lose its tax manoeuvrability on most commodities once GST is rolled out in July .
 
 Meanwhile, all districts in the state are drought-hit. “The Centre must release drought grants or special grants to the state. This will take care of the revenue deficit to a great extent. Tamil Nadu, till a few years ago, was one of the very few states with a surplus in the revenue account and it was well within the parameters prescribed by the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act,“ said Bhanumurthy .
 
 Experts also feel that there are revenue leakages in the commercial tax and registration department and if the loopholes are plugged, revenue would increase. “We have heard of raids by income tax and central excise departments on business establishments. But hardly any raid is conducted by the TN commercial tax department. This shows that no serious steps are being taken to plug revenue leakage,“ said Madras University economics professor R Srinivasan.
 
 Each year, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) points out anomalies in revenue collection and ways and means to plug loopholes. But hardly any follow-up action is taken by the government. “Very few cases are filed against business establishments that evade payment of tax,“ said Srinivasan. Unrealistic increase in guideline values of properties has badly affected revenue generation in the registration department.
 
