Deputy commissioner of   (Zone I)   is a woman who admits that she is quite sensitive. A self-confessed chatterbox when with friends, she is an absolute go-getter when in uniform. On International Women’s Day, she reveals how she has managed to break the stereotype associated with her gender...

 
 
 Deepali considers herself fortunate to have been raised by parents who let her follow her dreams and that is the reason she could break into a male bastion. She adds, “My parents never differentiated between me and my brother. We went to the same school, studied in the same college. But there were many in the society who had doubts about my capability. In fact, people were amazed when I gave my civil services’ exams and finally joined the police force. Even now people think ‘woman officer hai, kya kar payegi’. My being a woman doesn’t make me weaker or less competent. I’m an officer, what is the need to address me as a ‘woman officer’? I strive equally hard as my male colleagues. I have to prove myself every single day; I too give 200 per cent to my work.”
 
 
 
 Being in a profession that demands her to be on her toes 24x7, one wonders how she balances her personal and professional life. To this, she says “I live with my parents in Nagpur. They understand my work schedule and never complain. They stay awake till I return home. My in-laws who stay in Mumbai have always been very supportive. In fact, they are even more encouraging than my husband who is also into civil services (laughs). They always say that they are proud of me and this is what keeps me going.” 
 
 
 
 This brave cop stays quite fit and makes time to pursue her passions. She says, “I’m hooked to running these days. Every morning, come what may, I run for some time and now it has become a part of my routine. I miss playing   as I don’t get time for that. But I still love to paint sometimes. Listening to music is my biggest stress-buster.”
 
 
  
 She strongly endorses the mantra of ‘live by your choice’ and adds, “No conditions apply on my choices. I do what I love to do and not what society feels a woman should do. Everybody should follow his/her heart.”
 
