THANE: Rejecting the bail application of a  , the   here observed that the accused being a teacher may victimise other children and rob them of their innocence and childhood.

 Mridula Bhatia, the special Judge ( ), in her order while rejecting the bail of accused Sanjay Patil pointed out that this is not the fit case to grant bail. 
 
 Son of an Army man, the accused was arrested by the Rabale police under sections 354(a) of the IPC and section 8,12 of the POCSO Act 2012. Patil was accused of molesting the minor girl while she was waiting for her father to pick her up after the casio class. Finding her alone, Patil, allegedly, shut the door of the classroom and showed her a pornographic video and told her to perform oral sex, prosecutor Rekha Hiwarale told the court. 
 
 In his submission, counsel for Patil Nana Mote stated that the offence is not punishable by life imprisonment/death and since the investigation is over and chargesheet has been filed, the accused is entitled for bail. He also submitted that there was no signature of the applicant on the seizure of the mobile phone panchnama. Mote submitted that the applicant is physically challenged and son of an Army man and as such the application should be allowed.
 
 Hiwrale vehemently opposed the bail on the ground that the offence was serious in nature committed against a student of only six years of age. Hiwarale told the court that the victim has in all details and particulars mentioned about the nature of sexual assault committed by the applicant on her. She also submitted that if the applicant is released on bail, there is every possibility of repeat of similar offence with other students. 
 
 After hearing both the defence and prosecution, Bhatia, in a strongly worded order, pointed out, “The above offence is undoubtedly serious in nature. Pedophiles and child-molesters endanger the safety, security and well being of minor children.”
 
 Bhatia further added that the accused being a teacher may victimise other children and rob them of their innocence and childhood. There is no reason for the minor victim student to falsely implicate the applicant. "In view of the foregoing discussion, I do not not find it a fit case to grant bail," the judge noted.
 
 
 
 
 A 32-year-old man has been arrested for trying to smuggle banned 91 grams of Mephedrone (MD) worth Rs 1.35 lakh from Daighar area on Monday.
 The accused, Mohsin Mohammad Khan (35), is the resident of Lonavala was trapped with the consignment. 
 
 Based on the information to the crime branch unit 1 that Khan would come near Bunty hotel on Old Mumbai-Pune Highway to sell the MD, the police laid the trap and arrested him.
 
 “The police carried out the body search and upon frisking, they found small quantity of plastic pouches bundled in his pockets nearly 50 grams of MD worth Rs 1.35 lakhs,” said Srishail Chivadshetty, the investigation officer.
 
 Khan was a site supervisor in Maval area of Oune district, but had left the job and was into peddling the contraband. "We are in the process of interrogating the accused and trying to determine as to who is that person who supplies the contraband and since how long he has indulged in the smuggling and whether he has contacts abroad,” the officer told TOI.
 
 An offense has been registered at Daighar police station under Section 8-C, 20 (illegally possessing psychotropic drug) and 22 (seizure of narcotic drug) of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985.
 
 
 
 Four men who assaulted a doctor at Thane Civil Hospital were arrested on Thursday. OPD staff struck work for two hours to protest the attack.
 The four were identified as Muzzafar Memon (36), Arfad Palte (23), Osama Shaikh (20) and Jishan Sarang (18), said Abhishek Trimukhi, deputy commissioner of police (zone-1).“They were identified through CCTV footage and tracked down though the main accused is yet to be arrested as he is in hospital,“ Trimukhi said. They were produced in court and sent to police custody up to April 3. 
 
 On Wednesday, Dr Javed Khan (27) was attacked by a patient and his relatives, who ransacked the hospital. “Police have given us a written assurance they will deploy armed guards and allow only two people with a patient," said Prassana Deshmukh, president, Thane unit of Maharashtra Association of Gazetted Doctors.
 
 
 
 A 24-year-old Kopri resident was robbed of cash and jewellery amounting to Rs 47,500 from her house on Wednesday afternoon.
 
 The victim, Kiran Patil, was asleep when an unidentified person broke the latch of the door and gained entry into the house. The police said that the thief entered the house and broke open the cupboard which contained the cash and jewellery. 
 
 He robbed all the valuables and fled from the scene. The victim realised that she was robbed only after she woke up and found the cupboard door ajar. When she checked, Patil found the cash and jewellery missing. She then lodged a complaint with the Kopri police. A case has been registered against the unidentified person.
 
 
 
 The Thane Municipal Commissioner has suggested a 10% increase in the property taxes, which are likely to mop up around Rs 40 crore this year. The announcement has irked the citizens.
  
 Sanjeev Jaiswal in his speech said that this year the total of property taxes collection is likely to touch Rs. 480 crore. An Early Bird Incentive Scheme was also being introduced for the benefit of the citizens, he declared. Jaiswal said that this time, a five-year vision plan has been prepared and the entire budget is centered around it.
 
 
 
 The Thane Municipal Commissioner Sanjeev Jaiswal presented a Rs. 3390.78 crore budget for the period 2017-18.
 
 Mayor Minakshi Shinde presided over the meeting where the commissioner made his marathon budget presentation, which lasted for more than two hours.
 
 Several developmental projects were announced by the civic chief.
 
