NASHIK: The city which stood 31st in terms of   among the 73   last year, has been ranked 151 among the 434 cities surveyed this year.

 The list was released by the Union ministry of urban development on Thursday following a ‘swachh survekshan survey’ undertaken in January and February. 
 
 As far as solid waste management is concerned, the assessors found that 80% of the wards in the city have been covered by door-to-door waste collection and 75% of the notified commercial areas undertake sweeping twice a day. The city also has a waste processing plant which works at 80% capacity.
 
 The survey, however, highlighted that the NMC has failed to meet the criteria with regard to deployment of informal waste pickers in over 50% of the wards and in sustaining waste segregation at all processing stages in over 75% of the wards.
 
 With regards to access to sanitation, the survey stated that the city did not achieve the target of having 5% gap of the applications of household toilets approved and constructed. It also failed to construct 90% of CT/PT toilets.
 
 Nashik could not achieve the target of ensuring 75% of the commercial areas are clean; also, the area outside   railway station and city bus stand were not 100% clean. It also failed in ensuring that at least 75% of the CT/PT have proper electricity and water. However, the city achieved the target in ensuring that 75% of the residential areas are  
 
 Of the 2,987 Nashikites who took part in the survey, 72% found thier localities cleaner than last year, 59% said availability of dustbins in market places have improved, and 70% found door-to-door collection of waste satisfactory.
 
 The survey did not declare Nashik free of open defecation, although the civic body claimed that over 75% of the wards are open defecation free. 
 
 “The NMC used to claim that it was one of the top 10 cities in the cleanliness mission. It is very sad that we are not even among the first 100. The basic issue is poor focus on waste segregation. The NMC is only speaking about waste segregation; nothing is being done,” said social activist Jagbir Singh.
 
 Singh said if waste segregation, burning of roadside waste and plastic ban were dealt with properly then the city could have scored better.
 
 He said the compartments in garbage vans have just 2 to 3 feet height which caused mixing of waste even if segregation was done at source.
 
 Bharti Jadhav, another social activist, said there was no accountability in the NMC for any work.
 
 “If we have to make Nashik a smart city, we have to ensure that it is clean and 100% ODF. The ground result of garbage treatment is zero. The easily visible roads are clean but those slightly away are filthy. Even the river is unclean. It is clear that sewage mixes into the river.,” Jadhav said.
 
 Kirti Purohit, an entrepreneur, said that ODF claim was all hogwash. “Take a walk across the city in the early morning and one will notice open defecation. Though toilets have been constructed but these are not sufficient.”
 
 About the city’s ranking, civic health officer Vijay Dekate said, “Last year Nashik competed with 73 cities and this year with 434.”
 
 Another senior official said, “The two surveys are not at all comparable because last year there were 73 cities and this year 434. Yet, if you consider it percentile-wise, last year it was 41% and this year 34%. Still we did well. The reason for the 151th rank could be the solid waste management plant which should have been fully operational two years ago. But this did not happen. We have made it fully functional recently. Next year, Nashik will score well.”
 
 About reducing the number of toilets under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan from 7,528 to 6,546, the official said, “People were given money to construct toilets but many did not want to. There was no space also to construct toilets. Hence they decided to use community toilets.” 
 
 Civic officials said they would improve on the dark spots and bring a better score next time.
 
 Mayor   said, “I am trying to focus on cleanliness ever since I took charge as mayor. On Thursday, I also visited the municipal solid waste management plant to see if it is C.”
 
