NEW DELHI: Air India’s (AI) troubles with the Shiv Sena and its offshoots show no sign of ending. Now, MNS chief   refused to board an AI subsidiary, Alliance Air’s, flight earlier this week because the airline — as per rules — did not allow the firebrand leader’s armed security men to board the aircraft with weapons.

 Raj was supposed to fly an Alliance Air turboprop aircraft from Mumbai to Madhya Pradesh and reached the airport with his armed security personnel. “Weapons are not allowed to be carried on board the ATR aircraft,” said an AI spokesman.
 
 But unlike Shiv Sena MP   who beat up an AI employee on March 23 for being made to fly economy class, Raj Thackeray did not create much of a scene and is learnt to have returned home. “He was upset but there were no ugly scenes at the airport as he did not go to board the aircraft without his security personnel,” said sources. Raj was reportedly headed to Gwalior. The airline’s top management has reportedly not received any letter of protest from MNS on this episode. Only some top dignitaries, who have “very high threat perception” are allowed to fly with armed security personnel when flying commercial airlines. Other VVIPs’ security team has to check in their weapons and ammunition and then get the same after landing at the destination.
 
 The Bureau of Civil Aviation Security, which comes under the aviation ministry, feels only top dignitaries like President, Prime Minister and Special Protection Group (SPG) protectees can be allowed to have armed personal security officer (PSO) on domestic commercial flights. Currently, apart from armed PSOs for top dignitaries and SPG protectees, the only other armed personnel allowed on board commercial flights are sky marshals who are put on selected flights depending on the route’s threat perception. 
 
 But exceptions have been made for individuals facing grave threats like senior BJP leader L K Advani, former Union home minister Shivraj Patil and ex-UP chief minister Mayawati. In this backdrop, the Union home ministry had last year asked aviation authorities to allow armed personal security officer to travel with home minister   on domestic commercial flights given his “extremely high” threat perception. A final decision on this is yet to be taken for the senior BJP leader who is in the highest category of ‘Z plus’ security and has National Security Guard cover.
 
 
