Kurkheda (Gadchiroli): From her appearance and speech, Gauri Uikey resembles a typical tribal woman. What sets her apart from the rest is her resilience and belief in education system. The 40-year-old, who heads NGO Prerna Bahuuddeshiya Sansodhan Sanstha having clusters of SHGs, has convinced around 25 dropouts from the interior parts of Gadchiroli district to resume higher studies over the last one year.  Using her rapport with local SHG women, Uikey has gone door to door and held several discussions to motivate tribal youths take up degree courses offered by Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU).  At times, Uikey travelled on foot passing through deep jungles to reach out to youths. “Sometimes there used to be no transport facility. I used to get frightened and fear for my life. But, I knew if I showed a little courage, many lives would change,” she told TOI. Even after tasting success in her endeavour, Uikey is far from done. She has purchased a land worth Rs20 lakh from her savings to set up a study centre at Kurkheda.  “The process is done and we are waiting for approval from Delhi. Looking at her sincerity and commitment, Uikey would be appointed as IGNOU coordinator. We will provide office furniture and computers for the centre,” IGNOU regional director P Sivaswaroop said. Three years ago, IGNOU had around 38 women students enrolled for different distance courses. “The figure jumped to 62 after Uikey collaborated with us in June 2016,” Sivaswaroop said. Besides her NGO, Uikey used to volunteer for Community Managed Resource Centre (CMRC). Its coordinator had persuaded Uikey to complete her studies. Heeding the advise, she did Bachelor of Arts from Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University (Ycmou) in 2009. Understanding the role of education, she started motivating other villagers during her SHG meets. In 2016, Sivaswaroop had visited Kurkheda for Gyan Ganga campaign to create awareness about education among tribals. “Uikey had taken the initiative of mobilizing youths for the camp then,” Sivaswaroop said. By afternoon that day, youths from backwards areas like Dhanora, Korchi, Sursundi, and Navezhari were admitted for degree courses.  As the word spread, Uikey received a call from Kasari, a cut off and Naxal-infested area. “I told Sivasswroop sir that seven students from Kasari wanted us to visit their village. I was a bit scared as it was deeper in forest,” Uikey said. Seven students were waiting for the IGNOU officials with documents and HSC certificates when the team arrived at Kasari. “Spot admissions were given just outside their huts while sitting on a charpoy,” said Sivaswaroop adding, that it was “university at doorstep.” Besides Kasari, seven students each from Sursundi and Dhanora 7, three from Korchi and four from Armul Kasa are now pursing distance learning through IGNOU. All these villages are mostly populated by Scheduled Tribes. In November 2016, Uikey’s drive received a minor setback when the Naxalite killed an informer. “I had stopped visiting villages after the incident. It took sometime to regain the confidence. I told myself I wasn’t doing anything wrong. If someday they catch me, I would ask them if I am doing anything wrong,” she said.