AURANGABAD: Seven years after a sub-inspector and his writer were arrested in connection with a bribe case, a special court here acquitted both of them.

 The writer was caught red-handed by the anti-corruption bureau while accepting currency notes laced with anthracene powder from a man.
 
 Saying that the evidence of prosecution witnesses nowhere inspired confidence and, on the other hand, created doubt regarding the prosecution’s case against the accused, special judge HS Mahajan acquitted the duo identified as sub-inspector Santosh Mahadeo Kasbe and police naik Ramesh Trimbakrao Narwade.
 
 On October 14, 2009, a youth who was working with a private firm that was in the business of seizing vehicles that defaulted on loan instalments, lodged a complaint with the   unit of the anti-corruption bureau. 
 
 He stated that on October 6 he seized a vehicle and, following the due procedure, informed   police station before taking it to the godown of the finance company. The same evening, he allegedly received a call from sub-inspector Kasbe of   police station, summoning him to the police station as a complaint was lodged against him.
 
 Kasbe allegedly told him that they have received a complaint against him, stating that the vehicle he seized had Rs 25,000 in it. Later, the SI allegedly demanded Rs 15, 000 for resolving the matter and not registering an FIR. Following negotiations, the amount was fixed at Rs 5,000.
 
 On October 15, a trap was laid and the police naik was arrested for allegedly accepting the bribe on behalf of the SI.
 
 Representing the accused, lawyer Nilesh Ghanekar contested that the SI was not the final authority in taking a final call about the complaint the police station received and so he demanding bribe is pointless. He said, for two consecutive days, the complainant, along with the independent ‘panchas’ deputed by the  , did not carry the voice recorder, citing that he forgot to carry it with him.
 
 The lawyer brought it to the notice of the court that the authority to sanction prosecution of a sub-inspector is with the director general of police but, in contrast to the law, the then commissioner of police gave sanction for prosecution against the SI. 
 
 Special judge HS Mahajan, citing apex court orders, ruled that mere possession of money is not sufficient enough to draw the conclusion that the same is in connection with demand and acceptance of bribe.
 
 
