Rohith.BR

 Bengaluru: The state government’s much-hyped   project, wherein tourists could enjoy a trail amidst the woods between Castle Rock, Uttara Kannada district, and Dudhsagar Falls on the Karnataka-Goa border, has hit an environmental hurdle.
 
 Following concerns raised by conservationists that the project would be an ecological disaster to the tiger reserve here, the Central Empowered Committee (CEC) constituted by the Supreme Court has sought a report from the principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF-wildlife), Karnataka, and National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) regarding the work. CEC is an Apex committee on forest, wildlife and environmental issues in India.
 
 The move follows a complaint by wildlife activist Manoj R to Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding alleged illegal implementation of the Canopy Walk Tourism Project Construction Work in Dandeli Wildlife Sanctuary. In its directive on May 18, 2017, a copy of which is with TOI, the committee has sought urgent action against forest officials for implementing the canopy walk tourism project. 
 
 Amarnatha Shetty, member secretary of CEC, has asked the member secretary of NTCA and chief wildlife warden (PCCF –wildlife) of Karnataka to submit their comments.
 
 The project proposed by the tourism department promises strolls 30ft above the ground underneath a leafy rooftop in the Western Ghats. The project is also part of the proposed Great Canara Trail, the longest trekking trail through the Western Ghats. Environmentalists are of the opinion that it poses a threat to the eco-sensitive Western Ghats.
 
 Immensely popular in the woods of Europe, South America and South Africa, canopy walks give tourists a chance to experience the delights of nature from a higher elevation. Such trails are also much sought-after by bird lovers and watchers. Thenmala Ecotourism project at Shendurney Wildlife Sanctuary in Kerala too draws tourists in large numbers for its canopy walk.
 
 “Recently, the director of Kali Tiger Reserve sought permission to start the Canopy Walk project. We urge the authorities to shelve the project. If permission is given, it will be in violation of the Supreme Court judgment as the work has been taken up without due approvals,” wildlife activist Manoj R said. 
 
 
