CHENNAI: The dream run of  , which offer medical courses but never surrendered themselves to the jurisdiction of the Medical Council of India (MCI), came to an end on Tuesday, when the Madras high court said that the MCI would be the boss when it came to medical courses irrespective of the fact that they were deemed universities.

 The immediate effect of the ruling will be, the deemed universities offering medical education too must surrender 50% of their postgraduate medical course seats to the state government for the state quota, and then allow the government to conduct counselling for the remaining 50% of the management quota seats. In fact, since they are now regulated by both Medical Council Act and UGC Act, deemed universities are expressly barred from collecting capitation fee since the UGC Act bans it.
 
 Justice N Kirubakaran, unmasking deemed universities that had never surrendered the mandatory 50% of their postgraduate medical seats nor subjected themselves for common counselling, said: “It is very clear that right from starting medical institutions/college, laying down standard for medical education, to make inspections at the time of examination and to get required information regarding the course of study from the medical institutions, the MCI alone is the authority for medical education. Deemed universities cannot, on their own, declare that they are not bound by the MCI regulations, as they are deemed universities.”
 
  Making it further clear, the judge said: “Irrespective of their status as deemed universities, they are merely medical institutions like any other medical college before the MCI and no special status could be claimed by deemed universities. By donning the mask of deemed university, deemed universities cannot escape from the MCI regulations. If they ask for such protection, they cannot be called as medical institution at all.”
 
 As for the arguments of deemed universities that they came under Section 3 of UGC Act, 1956 and that MCI regulations would not apply to them, Justice Kirubakaran pointed out that non-obstante clause in Section 10A (10) of the Medical Council Act, which said it would apply “notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other law for the time being in force.”
 
 The Act clearly said no person shall establish a medical college or open a new course of study or training or increase its admission capacity except with the previous permission of the central government.
 
  “A perusal of Section 10A(1) makes it very clear that it overrides not only the other laws but also the other provisions of the Act itself. Therefore, provisions of Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 would prevail over the UGC Act, which is comparatively a general Act,” said the judge.
 
 Justice Kirubakaran pointed out that the Act mentions educational institutions including private, aided or unaided institutions, that mean and include deemed universities also. Very clear exclusion is granted only to minority educational institutions, he said, adding: “Hence, the deemed university status could not give any independent existence for universities, as they are governed by the MCI Regulations and the Indian Medical Council Act.”
 
 He slammed the   government stand that deemed universities could not be compelled to surrender 50% postgraduate medical seats to the state quota and said it was against the interest of public. 
 
 He quashed a separate prospectus issued for common counselling to postgraduate degree/diploma courses in deemed universities in Tamil Nadu.
 
 
