BENGALURU: Retired Karnataka high court judge Justice P Vishwanath Shetty was sworn in as the eighth   of Karnataka at a function in Raj Bhavan on Saturday. He was administered the oath of office by governor Vajubhai R Vala.

 Justice Shetty, who had earlier served as the chairman of Karnataka State Bar Council, said he aims to transform Lokayukta into an institution of excellence. “The functions of the Lokayukta are similar to that of a judge. I will continue to serve the people in the manner in which I have done so throughout my legal career,” he said.
 
 Justice Shetty said he’d look into the cases pending before the Lokayukta, and decide how to go about them. “I’m extremely pleased because God has given an opportunity to serve the people in the sunset of my life. I will strive to strengthen the institution to receive and redress public grievances,” he added.
 
 Chief minister  , who attended the swearing-in ceremony, said that he was happy to see the Lokayukta finally in place.
 
 The new Lokayukta was administered the oath at the banquet hall in presence of a huge contingent of legal luminaries, former judges, senior lawyers, resent and former Upa Lokayuktas, and senior government functionaries. Among those present were a host of Siddaramaiah’s ministerial colleagues, including G Parameshwara, D K Shivakumar, T B Jayachandra, U T Khader, Basavaraj Rayaraddi. 
 
 The post of Lokayukta was vacant for more than a year, following the resignation of Justice Y Bhaskar Rao in December 2015 over an alleged bribery scandal involving his office and son.
 
 The appointment of Lokayukta had snowballed into a major controversy, with the governor refusing to accept the name of Justice S R Nayak. Vala had, on various grounds, twice turned down the recommendations made for the post. Though the governor had also returned Justice Shetty’s file, following allegations levelled against Shetty by activist S R Hiremath, he finally gave his assent on Thursday. This was after the government replied to the clarifications sought by him.
 
 
