PUNE: Whether it is ‘outsiders’, who frequently   in the vicinity, or it is the theft cases on  ,   campus seems to be hemmed in by  .

 In the past, several cases of theft have been reported near the Hanuman tekdi, where many students prefer to study or catch up with friends. Citizens use the same area for morning and evening walks. However, constant presence of outsiders, who play cards, drink or just sit around, has become a major cause for concern among students. Despite daily rounds by the police team, both inside and outside the campus, students continue to feel insecure especially at the tekdi and the ground near the economics department.
 
 Several students have been robbed of their valuables as well as cash, mainly around the hillside. Students have often seen outsiders playing cards and even drinking alcohol late into the evening hours on the tekdi. The area is accessible though a road from the college ground near the economics department.
 
 Sonam Jangid, a first year arts student of the college, said, “The college authorities have warned us not to go alone towards the hill, especially in the evenings. There is no restriction on entering the college campus and outsiders are seen here quite often. Many come in groups and sit on the hill playing cards. They even indulge in eve teasing. We have also brought this to the notice of college officials.”
 
 Mohammed Said, a college alumni, said, “There are areas around the campus that are not safe for male students either. The ground is always occupied by outsiders. Security personnel hired for the campus are very old and if any incident is reported, they would not be able to help the victim much.”
 
 Students have also complained about basins, buckets and other objects going missing from the hostel on many occasions. 
 
 On condition of anonymity, a hostel student said, “Our dustbins, basins, water buckets go missing. Outsiders are allowed into the campus and despite notifying the rector and college authorities, things have remained the same.”
 
 Students also pointed out that college authorities are very strict with every youngster who enters the college and security guards often seek identity cards but they are not so strict with outsiders. Students claimed that even during the day it is impossible to roam around the ground alone. In particular, the female students make it a point to move around the campus in groups.
 
 
 
 
 Principal of Fergusson College Ravindrasinh Pardeshi said that teachers, students, college authorities as well as non-teaching staff members have been instructed to wear their identity cards while on campus.
 
 “The security guards appointed on the campus have also been instructed to stop any outsiders entering the campus and accompany people, who are visiting the campus for work, until the department. Due to some past incidents, the police were also alerted and the beat marshals take at least two to three rounds daily around the campus,” he said. Pardeshi said that the police make it a point to take a round even in the evening hours. 
 
 The college students have also been advised to move around in groups. Moreover, if they suspect anything wrong is happening, students must immediately inform the authorities. “We have also installed 100 close circuit television cameras in the premises of the college in order to keep a watch on activities that take place inside the campus. The cameras are of very good quality and cover a wide area. As a college, we take all possible safety measures to avoid any untoward incidents and we are also in constant dialogue with the police so as to keep them updated regarding safety concerns,” said Pardeshi.
 
