 (CCB) police investigating the case of   have found that around   across the country are part of the fraud. Five persons including a woman, and  , who was arrested a month ago from Bengaluru and was part of the fraud, have been arrested.The arrested persons have been identified as Sandesh Agarwal, the kingpin of the racket who has been running an educational consultancy called Double Eight Consultancy, Dipanker Sen, an employee of a private college in Bengaluru, Sourab Kumar Sharma of RPS School in Ghaziabad, and Aruna, owner of Fortune Institute in Bengaluru.

 The team under the guidance of the additional commissioner of police (crime) S Ravi and headed by deputy commissioner of police (crime) HD Anand Kumar and his Fraud and Misappropriation wing staff unearthed the major fraud across the country which has been on for at least two years.
 
 The arrested confessed to the police that they used to charge Rs 1 lakh for an MBBS certificate, an engineering and Phd certificate.For other degrees, they charged between Rs 40,000 and Rs 70,000.
 
 Anand Kumar speaking to media said the fraud has ramifications across the country, and the accused used many software, print ing machines and fake stamps to forge and create the fake marks cards. “We have recovered 732 marks cards which were ready to be despatched to aspirants across the country. 836 empty marks cards along with holograms, fake signatures, and seals of 38 universities have been seized, he added.
 
 Anand Kumar said they got a tip-off when a youth in Bengaluru had approached Mondal for an educational consultation and learnt about the fraud and informed the police. The fraudsters have sold 1.6 lakh fake marks cards of various degree and professional courses. We request other state police officers to get in touch with us, for any kind of information about the arrested persons and we will happily assist them as it is a huge scam and has to be stopped.Mondal had led police to Dipanker Sen who was staying in Bengaluru.Sen informed police about Sourav Kumar Sharma in Ghaziabad and he gave them the lead on Sandesh Agarwal. Agarwal and his staff were using Corel Draw software to make the fake marks cards.
 
 The police have registered a case under IPC section 420 cheating, IPC section 465 and 471 forgery.
 
