MUMBAI/CHENNAI: The   proposes to levy a tax of 10% on income earned on transfer of carbon credits. Such a tax will be levied on the gross income, without allowing for any deductions.

 According to the explanatory memorandum to the Finance Bill, the income tax (IT) department has been treating the income earned on transfer of carbon credits as business income subject to tax at the rate of 30%. In this context, it seems like a favourable position on the face of it, but it is a mixed bag, say tax experts and industry specialists. Samir Kanabar, tax partner at EY, points out, “There have been several favourable cases at the tax tri bunal and high court levels, such as by the   in the case of Subhash Kabini Power, where revenue on sale of   was treated as a `capital receipt' not subject to any tax. These now stand overturned.“ Direct taxes code had recommended that income from sale of carbon credits be treated as business income. Then the tax levy of 10% may be considered as beneficial, adds Kanabar.
 
 He also points out that since 2012, new applications for grant of credit have not been entertained under the UN framework. However, companies in renewable energy sector, including wind farms, or those who adopted green technology , which had applied for it before this date, continue to accumulate credits. They can either adjust carbon credits against any manufacturing business, which is polluting, or can sell the excess credit.
 
 Most sales are via private arrangements. Prevailing market price has dropped, but prior contractual arrangements have helped Indian companies who have such carbon credits to sell. According to industry experts, India is one of the top three sellers of carbon credits in the world, China and  , being the other big players.
 
 
 
 
 Carbon credits are an incentive given to an industrial undertaking for reduction in emission of GHGs (green house gases), including carbon dioxide, which is done through several ways such as by switching over to wind and solar energy, or installation of energy-efficient machinery. The Kyoto Protocol commits certain developed countries to reduce their GHG emissions, and for this they will be given carbon credits. A reduction in emissions entitles the entity to a credit in the form of a Certified Emission Reduction (CER) certificate. The CER is tradeable and its holder can transfer it to an entity that needs carbon credits to overcome an unfavourable position on the same. Many Indian companies hold such CERs. TNN
 
