PATNA: Forensic science students at   ( ) will now practically learn how to handle evidence in court. 

 A first of its kind in north India, a mock courtroom with perfect setting has been set up in the forensic medicine and toxicology department at IGIMS to enable students to get used to courtroom environment and handle the pressure of being challenged as an expert witness. 
 
 Forensic medicine and toxicology department’s head Dr Arvind Prasad said the model mock courtroom would surely help new doctors feel at ease as they generally become tense in the witness box as forensic experts during a trial. “This moot courtroom will benefit both undergraduate and postgraduate students. In my 30 years of teaching experience, I noticed that students who have just received theoretical knowledge were often confused. Executing a practical mock courtroom will ensure that they learn about different legal procedures such as the importance of taking the oath and the norms that a doctor should follow in a courtroom,” he added. 
 
 Dr Prasad plans to involve the students in a dramatized enactment of a trial where the students will play the judge, defence lawyer, prosecutor, the plaintiff and the defendant. 
 
 Vishal Mishra, a student, was all praise for this new feature in his department. “This will teach our medical fraternity how to work in compliance with the judiciary. It would give us a chance to learn practically about forensic laws as well as their legal implications.   doesn’t even have such a facility for its forensic students,” he said. 
 
 Another student, Saumya Anand, is happy that her institute is taking the initiative to bring forensic medicine and toxicology to the fore. “The mock courtroom will help us memorize each IPC section and we can see it practically applied. This practical application is definitely a more balanced approach towards the education of forensic medicine,” she said. 
 
 IGIMS director Dr N R Biswas, who inaugurated the mock courtroom, said it had been set up in accordance with the Medical Council of India’s UG and PG curriculum. “This is the first of its kind in both north and northeast India,” he said.
 
 
