GHAZIABAD: Three men in their early 20s drowned late on Wednesday night in Site 4 Industrial Area,   after their bike plunged into a drain.

 The accident occurred around 1am when the men were returning to their homes from a birthday party.
 
 The victims have been identified by police as  , a gym trainer who was pursuing graduation through correspondence;   alias Bunty, a waiter; and Akshay Kumar, a peon in a government office in Kaushambi. Mohit lived in Delhi’s Durgapuri while his friends Abhishek and Akshay lived in Janta flats in GTB Enclave.
 
 The three men, who allegedly inebriated from the party, were travelling on a Yamaha Fazer motorcycle being driven by Akshay. Two other friends, Himanshu and Virender, trailed them on a scooter. They were also residents of GTB Enclave.
 
 Himanshu, a third-year nursing student in Bengaluru, told TOI they had partied together till Wednesday night on the occasion of Akshay’s birthday.
 
 “The bike was a few hundred metres ahead of us as we were driving towards our homes. We had decided to take the route home through Ramprastha colony. The bike skidded when it reached the crossing of Ambica Steels. Only smoke and dust was visible to us from a distance. When we reached the spot, we couldn’t locate the bike anywhere. After some time, we noticed a flickering tail lamp and found the bike inside the drain. We were a bit intoxicated when the accident occurred,” said Himanshu.
 
 The drain is around 2.5 to 3 metres wide and does not have any barricades. According to police, the three men had fallen head downwards inside it. A PCR van reached the spot and helped retrieve the men along with their friends.
 
 The men were rushed to   in Kaushambi. “All three men were brought here around 2am. Mohit and Abhishek were brought dead while Akshay died an hour later during treatment,” said hospital spokesperson, Dr Sunil Dagar.
 
 No case has been registered in the matter. “Medical examination was conducted on all five men. Autopsies were also conducted on the three bodies. The reports will state the amount of alcohol in their bodies and injuries sustained in the accident,” said local police outpost in-charge, Vinod Ahlawat.
 
 
