Back in 2013, when  , one of the students, painted the wall separating   (SIT) from the hostel at  , little did he know that he’d not only flag off a tradition but also be an inspiration to many. Since then, the wall is repainted in a new theme every year. But more so, Kartikey went on to lead by example, when he decided to choose art over a career in  .
Cut to today. After learning that Kartikey had been diagnosed with cancer, his juniors have dedicated the wall to him this year. This gesture is a tribute to Kartikey’s never-say-die spirit to chase one’s dreams...
 
 
 
 Avinash Kotekar, a final year E&TC student, who was part of the team, says, “All of us who painted the wall this year have worked with Kartikey on various art projects (most of them being several public walls across the city). So we thought of dedicating the wall to him at a time when he’s recovering.” This was something that all the core team members personally had in mind before collectively agreeing on the idea. The wall was readied last month for everyone to see.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 It was a team of six students, a mix of third and fourth year students, who took on the task of telling Kartikey’s story on the wall. Besides Avinash, the team comprised Ankit Pushpraj and Ram Souraj, who spearheaded the project, including Samarth Mathur, Navodita Bhandari and Sagarika Ganguly.
 Ram and Ankit, who work in tandem as sketch artists, came up with a plan for the wall. Ankit recalls, “I was interning in Ahmedabad in December, when Ram called me saying that he thought it would be a good idea to dedicate the wall to Kartikey, this time. We came up with a basic sketch, of course leaving scope for lots of last-minute improvisation. We finally closed in on the theme, ‘Dare to dream...never regret’, that would highlight Kartikey’s transition from engineering to doing what he loved most.” 
 
 
 
 The painting of the wall is something that the student fraternity looks forward to every year, which naturally set high expectations for the team. Ankit says, “A day before the fest every year, students go home with a picture of the wall in mind, the way it has been for the past year. When they return the next day, they see the wall completely transformed. This means that the team has to paint the wall overnight. We were excited, but we hoped we’d do justice to the idea.” Using over 30 cans of spray paint of different colours, including four litres of black, three litres of white and about two litres of every primary colour, the 15-ft-long wall gradually transformed into a canvas for Kartikey’s life story, and the example he set, to unfold.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 When Avinash messaged Kartikey that they had dedicated the wall to him this year, he refused to believe. “It’s only when I sent him a picture of what we’d done that he realised we weren’t joking,” says Avinash. 
 Kartikey says, “Because of my treatment, I’ve not seen the wall in person yet. But, I was overwhelmed. Our system is such that most of us get into mainstream professions.” He adds, “Sometimes, we don’t want to pursue our field of study, even if we’re good at it. But most of us realise this very late. It’s heartening that many have been inspired by my example, and I hope more students are brave enough to realise what they really want from life.”
 
 
 
 As explained by the team, the wall bears the image of Kartikey on the left of the frame. With inspiration, his creative side comes alive. There’s transformation, from a life of being told what to do, to one where you follow your heart. This is supported by the spectrum of background colours that gradually turn from dark to bright. From clouds and books flying, to a pink whale and an astronaut holding the moon as a balloon, these are symbolic of breaking free and chasing one’s dreams.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
