MUMBAI: Two years after the   approved its Rs 7.5-crore proposal, the public health department is yet to procure the dialysis units and reverse osmosis plants (water purification plants) owing to red tape.

 Following a proposal submitted by the public health department, the trust on August 11, 2015 approved procurement of 102 dialysis units and 34 reverse osmosis plants for district hospitals across the state. The proposal was stuck in the office of minister of state for law and judiciary   for months. Following a report in TOI, it was cleared later that year. The public health department then floated tenders for their procurement, but following a decision by the central purchase committee, the tender notice was cancelled on November 5,2016.
 
 As per the department’s revised guidelines, a fresh proposal was submitted on February 28, 2017 which was approved on July 28. Now the government has asked the public health department to ensure the units are according to technical specifications and adequate manpower is available to operate them. 
 
 A trustee expressed surprise over the inordinate delay in procuring the equipment which defeated the basic purpose of approving Rs 7.5 crore. “At a juncture when so many patients are awaiting dialysis, this delay can not be accepted. The chief minister must order a high level probe into the state of affairs in the public health department and fix responsibility,” he said.
 
 According to public health department rules, critical medical equipment should have   approval and a certificate of excellence. When the tenders were floated, a leading firm had objected saying very few firms have both USFDA approval and a certificate of excellence. The department then changed the tender conditions, requiring firms to have either USFDA approval or a certificate of excellence. “In the entire process, procurement of the units was delayed. Further, there was delay in securing revised administrative approval for the proposal owing to prolonged absence of the competent authority,” a senior public health department official said.
 
