BENGALURU: Charity begins at home, goes the adage. As a mother,   loved cooking and sharing food. And her insatiable urge to feed the hungry saw the birth of Share a Meal in December 2015. The Chowhans, a four-member family from Jayanagar, have been bringing people together to share their meals with those who can’t afford it.

 Every month, Share a Meal sets up   where people can drop fresh home-made food. The food is then served to the needy in a select slum. So far, they have reached out to over 18,000  .
 
 Jessie Chowhan, 24, an aspiring chartered accountant, looks after preparations for the monthly event to materialize her mother’s dream. “When we started, we had only a handful of people but managed to collect 270 meals. The message was spread mostly through word-of-mouth as well as Facebook and WhatsApp,” Jessie said.
 
 Her brother Prithvi Chowhan, based in the US, uses social media to make the event a success every month. “In December 2015, while I was at the university, mom told me about her idea of Share A Meal. Initially, I was skeptical but she soon formed a team and went ahead. I started working with the organization to popularise it with the help of social media and streamline logistics through IT.”
 
 With 18,373 meals shared across 15 slums in the city, Share a Meal springs into action on the fourth Saturday of every month. Over a hundred volunteers help out with the logistics, manning collection points and packing the meals which are then taken to the venue.
 
 “We visited houses of relatives, friends and others to tell about the drive. Some offered to donate money but we wanted people to be more involved with the initiative. We want donors to bring in freshly cooked food and not just leftovers of the previous meal. Initially, there were many challenges. Even slum-dwellers were suspicious; we had to convince them what we were up to,” Jessie added. 
 
 On May 28, 2016, which marked World Hunger Day, the team raised the highest number of meals – 3,367. As of today, the initiative draws from over 3,000 donors who drop off food every month across 35 collection centres. The next drive is on January 28.
 
 Pinki’s husband Rajesh Chowhan, a businessman, said: “Three thousand donors means 3,000 meals for 3,000 people who can barely manage a meal a day. To give money is one thing, but to put in personal effort to come together and prepare food – that is the true essence of Share a Meal.”
 
 Anmol Bahety and Thomas Cherian Ramapuram have been part of the initiative since its inception. “Share A Meal helped me realize how a small effort can go a long way in making a difference in other’s life. It just blew me away to see individuals from different backgrounds come together to dedicate their time and effort to support those who are less fortunate than us,” said Cherian, general manager, Financial Analysis, Orange County (Luxury Resorts). 
 
 Anmol was moved by the idea of a non-monetary and personal approach towards charity. “It’s heartening to see happiness unfurling on their faces by our modest endeavour.”
 
