AHMEDABAD: A team from the   will visit Ahmedabad on Friday, to assess the   situation here and review the action taken in the Hathijan area, where 1,650 birds were culled after 10 birds — turkeys and guineafowl — tested positive for the H5N1 strain of the influenza virus. Meanwhile, the state animal husbandry department conceded that it has found nothing suspect at poultry farms within a 10-km radius of  , the ‘shelter’ of the NGO   so far.

 The forest department on Thursday evening issued orders that all the 291 birds and animals, including Schedule I fauna, at the Asha Foundation shelter — which include one vulture, one owl, 40 kites, 31 cows and bullocks, 17 buffaloes, one camel, one donkey, one peacock, seven langurs and 55 stray dogs among other animals — be culled.
 
 Health commissioner   said that experts from NIV along with scientists from Delhi and Union health ministry officials will visit Ahmedabad on Friday.
 
 “With the prestigious Vibrant Gujarat summit beginning on January, where a galaxy of country heads, global CEOs, Nobel laureates and distinguished guests are expected, the central and state governments don’t want to take any chances. The experts will visit ground zero of the bird flu incidence, assess the measures taken and make further recommendations to control the spread of the virus,” sources said.
 
 While there is a widespread scare among people, who have started to shun chicken and eggs since the bird flu tests was first reported on Tuesday, senior animal husbandry officials said there is no reason to panic yet. 
 
 “We have taken samples of the birds at poultry farms and sent them for further investigation. Our but primary investigation of the birds at seven poultry farms found nothing unusual and there were no large-scale casualties reported.”
 
 Officials said that there are 36 revenue villages within a 1km and 10km of radius of the site of the infection, that is Asha Foundation. These include 30 villages of Ahmedabad district and six of Kheda district. In 10km radius from Asha Foundation, there are 20 lakh backyard poultry birds, of which 2.54 lakh were commercial poultry birds including broilers and layers. In the 1-km radius, there were 191 backyard poultry farms operations where animals have been culled and people are under surveillance.
 
 Meanwhile, 24 people from Hathijan, all from Asha Foundation, were quarantined. Some 36 officials of the animal husbandry department have also been quarantined. The officials said that the animal husbandry department is likely to complete its work in Hathijan on Friday and will take another day to disinfect the 10-km area. 
 
 There were unconfirmed reports that teams of the animal husbandry department were attacked by local people, who were told to close their meat and chicken shops. However, neither the animal husbandry department nor the police confirmed the reports. Some chicken retailers in Vatva were also forced to down shutters. 
 
 
