TAMKUHIRAJ (KUSHINAGAR): In this village of Purvanchal, people cross the   to eat ‘paan’, charge mobiles and buy potatoes. At a paan kiosk in   in Tamkuhiraj in  , discussion is full on over who would win elections this time. The most voluble of the folks, Rajan Singh says the sitting MLA would win again. “The candidate is the most visible and accessible,” he said. But as soon as one asks him about his family’s pick, he is prompt enough to say that he is not a voter in this part of Dibni. 

 The part of Dibni where Singh and his family lives now lies in Bihar. “But I have never stopped coming here for a paan. It’s less than a kilometre away from my place,” he added. Ganguamathia, otherwise a nondescript village, has a striking geography. The village which extended till the Bihar border, and was entirely in UP, now has lost a part to the neighbouring state. The village has its ‘haat’ on the road running in the middle. Interestingly, the village market too is divided. While one side of the haat is in UP, the other is in Bihar.
 
 “I come here every week to buy veggies. I buy from shops on both sides of the road,” said a local, Prabha Shankar. “We never think in terms of border. Even local officers would not know at which point in the village the limit of UP ends and that of Bihar begins,” said former pradhan of Tirojahan gram sabha,  . In terms of development, the two parts of the village, however, are a lookalike. 
 
 People like Kewal, a college dropout and ardent carrom player, cross the border routinely. Kewal goes almost everyday to his uncle’s place on the other side of the border, at times for reason as simple as charging his mobile when his village has a power cut. Children cross the border to go to schools and women to do vat-savithri puja. “The banyan tree they worship is on the other side of the village,” said Madhav Prasad, an elderly in Dibni.
 
 The Narayani river along the UP-Bihar border has been cutting into villages since 1984. Every year, 100 to 200 metre of land in villages at the border is getting cut off. “Many who used to till land in the area till ten years back are now landless. Their land got submerged. While Narayani continues to be furious, state governments have hardly acted. “No party has addressed the plight of locals,” added Gupta.
 
 Pipraghat is another village which shares the fate of the two villages. Locals share that Pipraghat used to be a big village touching the UP-Bihar border. But the surging river has reduced it in size. “At least 25% people in the village go to Bihar side everyday to till their lands,” says villager Pramod Singh. 
 
 Mairwa and Chhapra-Hirauli are affected too. Though the divided villages have separate polling booths, it also leads to hanky-panky in voting, at times. “There are a lot of people who vote in gram panchayat elections on both sides,” said a local, Himmat Yadav. Some people have built a house on Bihar side as well. They move to the other state when the river surges on UP side. 
 
 Then, there are also people taking pension from both the states. “Good that ration card is now getting linked to Aadhaar. The pension fraud got checked to some extent here,” he adds. 
 
 Some of the cut-out portions of the UP villages have got new names in Bihar and have become revenue villages, but confusion still prevails at some places. A police outpost, milestone on the road and landmarks set by locals in these villages show which side of the village it is.
 
