Margao: Former Congress MLA from Curchorem, Shyam Satardekar, who had disappeared from the political scene after suffering defeat in the March 2012 state assembly elections, has suddenly resurfaced on the political horizon, posing a potential threat to the poll prospects of Curchorem BJP MLA Nilesh Cabral, in the forthcoming assembly elections.

 Cabral had defeated Satardekar, who had then contested on the Congress ticket, by a huge margin of over 7,500 votes in the 2012 assembly polls. Significantly, Cabral was a close aide and business associate of Satardekar for a pretty long time, until both parted ways over some business-related issues, months prior to the 2012 assembly polls.
 
 Satardekar, who recently joined the   (GSM) and was declared the candidate of the GSM-MGP-Shiv Sena alliance, held an impressive rally of two-wheelers at Curchorem on the occasion of the opening of his election office.
 
 Sources said Cabral’s major concern would be the fact that most of GSM’s supporters are those who had worked for Cabral’s victory in the 2012 elections.
 
 “Satardekar has largely succeeded in retaining his flock of supporters despite his long absence from the political scene, thereby giving a jolt to the Congress. Congress is now left with no formidable candidate to take on the might of Cabral in the polls,” a political observer said. 
 
 While Cabral and Satardekar were engaged in a straight fight in the 2012 polls, this time the elections will apparently be multi-cornered, as the   (AAP) is also in the fray. Besides, a couple of independents are likely to throw their hats in the ring. Former BJP MLA from Curchorem constituency,  , has also made known his intention of contesting the elections.
 
 In such a scenario, political observers say, it definitely won’t be a cake walk for Cabral, as was expected, a couple of months ago.
 
 “With the birth of GSM, entry of AAP, and Satardekar’s re-emergence, things have turned dramatically in Curchorem,” a political observer said.
 
