MUMBAIi: A   on Thursday convicted and sentenced a man, his brother and an accomplice to   for the brutal  ,  , who eloped with the man’s 19-year-old daughter in 2014.   (42), his brother   (35) and their accomplice Chandraprakash Yadav (25) were found guilty of murder and kidnapping to commit murder.

 Abhishek’s father, Vijay Yadav (42), a government employee based in Delhi, said he accepted the court’s verdict. “I was hoping they would be awarded the death sentence. We have two little daughters and after our son’s murder my wife and I are living only for their sake. I could have taken the law into my hands but I had faith in the judiciary. The accused did all this done for fake honour and prestige. The world has moved forward but there are people who are still stuck in their backwardness.”
 
 Nineteen witnesses deposed in the case, among whom were the victim’s father, Abhishek’s friend who accompanied the couple when they eloped to Mumbai from UP and saw them being taken away by the accused at Kurla station, besides an auto rickshaw driver, who was last to see the victim alive as he had ferried the accused to the spot of the eventual murder.
 
 It was the prosecution’s case that Subhedar Yadav, an acquitted accused, instigated his brothers Gulab and Subhash to kill Abhishek “as he had lowered their status in society” by kidnapping the girl. The cops said Gulab, Subhash and Chandraprakash abducted the couple from Kurla Terminus on May 28, 2014, between 4 to 4.30 pm. The prosecution further said the accused then boarded an auto they hired earlier and headed towards the Mumbai Ahmedabad Highway, near Nalasopara. It said after alighting, while Chandraprakash waited with the girl at a restaurant, the other two took the victim to some distance and stabbed him to death. Later, local cops were alerted about a body found at the spot. When no one came forward to claim it, they registered a case and buried it and preserved his clothes.
 
 Vijay told the court he came to Mumbai after he was told his missing son had eloped there. He said on May 30, 2014, he went to Gulab and Subhash’s house at Kandivli but it was locked. Vijay said on June 4, 2014, he met the family of the girl at their village in Gunavali, Jaunpur district, UP, at their insistence. They told him the couple was untraceable and they would do their best. He said he returned to Mumbai and registered a missing complaint on June 10, 2014. On June 16, 2014, Vijay identified his son’s clothes and shoes after police called him to Valiv police station, Vasai. The following day, in his presence, cops exhumed Abhishek’s body from a spot on the highway.
 
 The auto driver, Ramavadh Yadav, known to the accused, was hired by them under the pretext of picking up some relatives from the station. He told the court that while they were on their way back after fetching the minors, Subhash slapped the boy. When he asked Subhash about it, the latter told him about the elopement and said, “meri izzat mitti me mila di.” He said the girl and Chandraprakash were dropped off at a hotel on the highway, while Subhash and Gulab took the boy towards a hillock on the highway and returned only 20 minutes later with blood on their hands. The witness said they told him they had killed the boy and requested him not to go to the cops. He said he eventually narrated the incident to the Kurla railway police after they called him on June 22, 2014.
 
 Cops then began to zero in on the accused and arrested them. Police had even recorded the statement of the girl before the boy’s body was found. The girl told them she was told he had been sent to his relatives. She had also said after she was brought back to her village she was tied and thrown into a well, but survived. The girl later allegedly committed suicide during the course of the trial. 
 
