GUWAHATI: Unfazed by Beijing's apparent unhappiness over his upcoming visit to  , the Dalai Lama said the reaction was “normal“.

 “No problem. It's normal,“ the Tibetan spiritual leader said when asked about China's objection to his visit to the northeast state. He was speaking at a function here on “ A Human Approach to World Peace“. The spiritual leader will leave for Tawang on April 4.
 
 Reminiscing about his escape to India from Tibet through Tawang in   following Chinese aggression in 1959, he spoke about his emotional attachment to Assam where he and his followers were initially sheltered.
 
 Reacting to Chinese objections, Union minister of state for home affairs   on Saturday said China should refrain from meddling in Indian affairs. “We do not interfere with the internal matters of China and the country should not interfere in our matters either,“ he said at an event.
 
 The Dalai Lama said it was not right to associate an act of terrorism with any particular religion.
 
 “I am very uncomfortable when someone says a Muslim terrorist or a Buddhist terrorist. A genuine Muslim never follows the path of violence.There may be mischievous persons among Buddhists, Muslims, Hindus, Christians and Jews. These people cannot represent the entire community. It is wrong to generali ze,“ the Nobel laureate said.
 
 The only way to end violence, he added, was through `karuna' (compassion), intelligence, adherence to moral and ethical values, and holding spiritual dialogues with different religions. “Secularism in Indian tradition means respect for all religions and even non-believers. In India, we also have the thousand-year tradition of `ahimsa' (non-violence). The foundation of ahimsa is compassion. And we have to inculcate compassion through prayers,“ he said.
 
 China warns India over  
 
 China on Saturday asked India to exercise “restraint“ on its plan to link the strategic border district of Tawang in Arunachal with a railway network, saying any “unilateral action“ might “complicate“ the unresolved border issue. China on Friday warned India over the visit of the Dalai Lama.
 
