CHANDIGARH: Amid reports of growing dissidence among BJP MLAs in Haryana, chief minister   has reportedly been forced to postpone the Legislative Party’s meeting, which was scheduled to be held in New Delhi on Monday.

 Though, state BJP president  , who is also a MLA, reasoned that the party was tied up with other programmes, sources inside BJP confirmed that speculations related to appointment of deputy CM in Haryana and other changes, besides demands by certain dissident MLAs to bring change in the bureaucracy, forced party bosses to postpone the meeting.
 
 “There has been lot of speculations, especially related to appointment of deputy CM in Haryana, which were associated with this meeting. Since there was no such issue at all, therefore the party decided to postpone the meeting for the time being,’’ said Barala, while justifying the postponement of Legislative Party meeting.
 
 Rewari MLA Randhir Singh Kapriwas, who heads the dissidents, denied any role in forcing the government to postponement of the meeting. “We are loyal soldiers of the party as well as the leadership. The Prime Minister has clearly given the slogan of weeding out corruption. Hence, our fight is against corruption in the bureaucracy as well as politicians. We will continue to fight till the end. We are not dissidents but reformers within the party,’’ said Kapriwas.
 
 Initially 18 MLAs of the ruling BJP had revolted against the government around a month ago, alleging that they were not being heard by cabinet ministers as well as bureaucracy in the state. At one point, the CM was forced to give them a hearing while the budget session of the Assembly was in progress.
 
 In a bid to placate dissidents, the party had organized three rounds of meetings in the special sessions, chaired by BJP’s national executive member and Haryana in-charge Anil Jain. The revolt had died down initially, but dissidents had lately again started becoming vocal, forced the party to plan a meeting of its elected representatives. 
 
