LUDHIANA: Undercurrents of resentment amongst   over   to the candidates came to fore with some of the ticket aspirants openly protesting against the party candidates whose name were declared by the party high command on Thursday.

 While some of the district Congress office bearers even threatened to quit against the candidature of  , who joined the party after leaving SAD, and was declared as Congress candidate from Atam Nagar constituency. Another ticket aspirant declared that he would contest as independent after having been ‘ditched’ by the party.
 
 Congress on Thursday declared its candidates for four more seats from Ludhiana. Except for sitting MLA Rakesh Pandey from Ludhiana North, who was given another chance, the party has declared first timers from other three seats. Kamaljit Karwal from Atam Nagar, Bhupinder Sidhu from Ludhiana South and Major Singh Bhaini from Dakha are the others.
 
 Suspecting they might be ignored, several Congress leaders including   secretary Kulwant Sidhu and Halqa, who were ticket seekers from Atam Nagar, protested outside residence of Congress president, Sonia Gandhi. They demanded that parachute candidates like Karwal who had recently defected from SAD was once the right hand man of Lok Insaaf Party supremo Simarjit Singh Bains and should not be given ticket.
 
 Speaking on the recent developments, Sidhu who is in Delhi said, “This is unfortunate and it is going to upset workers of Atam Nagar constituency who have worked day and night for the party. I will hold a meeting with my associates as soon as I am back and course of action will be decided then.”
 
 Opposing the candidature of Pandey, local leader Hemraj Aggarwal declared that he would contest as independent in the elections.
 
 “I have been a counselor for over 20 years now and a loyal worker of the Congress party but despite that I was ignored. The party got done five surveys till now all of which clearly predicted me as the winner. In fact, the party survey clearly says that Pandey will lose if he contests from this seat. I have no grudges against Pandey but I am disappointed by party’s decision and I will contest as an independent” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the decision to field Bhupinder Sidhu from Ludhiana South has also not gone down well within the party.
 
