MANGALORE: BJP state president   said on Thursday that he has no trust in the investigation by state police into the killings of RSS and BJP workers, and demanded a detailed probe by the National Investigation Agency (NIA).

 “We don't expect a fair investigation from the Congress government. We have spoken to Union home minister   and a delegation of BJP MPs will meet him on July 17 and prevail upon him for an NIA probe. Efforts will also be made to apprise the PM about the situation in Dakshina Kannada,“ he told reporters in  .
 
 Yeddyurappa, who visited the house of slain RSS activist   Madivala at Sajipa Kandur in Bantwal taluk, told reporters the state government has been making efforts to arrest RSS leader Kalladka Prabhakar Bhat. “There could be widespread repercussions if the state gover nment dares to take such a hasty step,“ he added.
 
 He parried the question on whether he had information that the RSS leader would be arrested, saying, “I'm just warning the police because there is anxiety among his supporters.“ In the same tenor, he cautioned police that power is not permanent.
 
 Yeddyurappa expressed confidence that the BJP will return to power after the next polls. “Siddaramaiah has only eight months left as chief minister. Police officers need not be worried about the Congress government.Act impartially and don't allow anyone to take the law into their hands,“ he said.
 
 Earlier, he criticized the delay in the declaration of death of Sharath Madivala, which he claimed was a plan to facilitate the smooth functioning of chief minister's programme on July 7. He said: “CM Siddaramaiah and ministers Ramanath Rai and UT Khader are responsible for the delay in the announcement of Sharath's death. If Khader, Rai and M Kempaiah are not allowed to enter the region, all problems will be solved. If they don't enter the district, we too will not come.“
 
 Earlier in the day , Yeddyurappa attended a protest meet organized by Dakshina Kannada BJP district unit Mahila Morcha at Town Hall. On the challenge posed by Ramanath Rai, Yeddyurappa said the party doesn't need to field D V Sadananda Gowda or Shobha Karandlaje to defeat Rai.“Even a party worker can defeat him and we will prove that in the coming elections,“ he said, saying Rai was playing political games in connivance with communal forces. He warned Siddaramaiah, saying the party will not allow the arrest of their members, and demanded the immediate arrest of Sharath Madivala's murderers.
 
 MP Shobha Karandlaje also blamed Rai and Khader for the recent communal incidents in Dakshina Kannada, saying they were pressuring police to arrest Hindu leaders.“I'm challenging Rai and the state government to arrest Kalladka Prabhakar Bhat and me. If they arrest us, that will be the last nail in the Congress coffin,“ she warned.
 
