ARWAL(KANPUR): When Aplesh Kumari was married, she was welcomed by her mother in law and few relatives into a  . There was hardly any privacy and going to the fields for nature’s call. Times changed for the better but that never elevated her  .

 In November 2016, she married off her son Abhishek whose wife Chandani got a grand greh pravesh. The house she entered is built in 4000 square feet. The new bride has a separate room, a modern kitchen with gas connection and separate toilet – something which many rural brides long for.
 
 That’s not all, the bride has a fancy double bed, dressing table, designer sarees and gold jewellery to flaunt. The harbinger of change in her life is Agra Lucknow expressway. “Yeh sab expressway ki mahima hai,” said Aplesh (all this is because of the expressway). But the rise in status has come at the cost of their neighbour’s envy. 
 
 Ashish Katiyar, whose father got Rs 36 lakhs as compensation and bought a Bolero SUV with the money, migrated to a new house along the  . “Pados ke log hamari tarakki se jal bhun gaye. Roz roz khit khit kaun karta,” he said. (My neighbours were jealous and they started creating issues out of nothing. Who had the time to contest every day… So I moved out).
 
 Expressway has been the instrument of prosperity for many more. Ramesh Kumar and his wife Sheila are also a case in point. They gave away over 2.5 acres of land to   (UPEIDA) and earned over Rs 65 lakh as compensation. Raja Ram bought a tractor, built a new house and bought two huge plots in Kanpur city. He has also bought a taxi and has given it on rent.
 
 Similarly,   who earned over Rs 38 lakh opened a brick kiln and revived his lost contract with a tractor selling company. Those with smaller compensations got rid of their loans and splurged on lifestyle gadgets like television, music system and pedestal fans. 
 
 The jealousy is explained considering that not everyone has benefited from the express-way. In Arwal for instance, 35 out of 250 families were lucky. Also, jealousy is certain outcome where ever there is aspiration along with deprivation. 
 
 “People who benefited have become a talking point for the remaining villagers. The struggle for life, worries of the future have vanished with the inflow of money giving birth to an emotional battle between the haves and have-nots,” said Ashutosh Kumar, officer land acquisition, UPEIDA.
 
 Psychologists in fact say that deprivation houses aspiration and jealousy is a natural outcome. People were jealous of Ashish’s Bolero because only one in 100 persons in rural UP have a four wheeler (according to the census data). 
 
