HYDERABAD: Two days of incessant rain across Telangana has brought smiles on the face of farmers as major lakes and tanks are brimming over. At the same time, with the Met office predicting more rain in the next 48 hours, people in Greater Hyderabad and other cities in the state are a worried lot, but government officials and the agriculture department are upbeat that more rains mean availability of enough water for drinking purposes and irrigation needs.

 “Most of the lakes and tanks in many districts including Khammam, Kothagudem-Bhadrachalam and Adilabad have received very good inflows. If rain continues, all the 16,000 lakes that were desilted under   will be soon full and provide water for irrigation and drinking purposes,“ irrigation department officer on special duty Sridhar Deshpande said.
 
 The agriculture department said the rains that occurred during the last two days are good for all crops. The rainfall across the state is good for all crops. There has been no damage to any crop,“ agriculture commissioner M Jagan Mohan told TOI. Revenue officials claim they have been monitoring the situation and even all district collectors have been asked to do so. The rain may be good for agriculture, but some other sectors have been adversely hit. Coal production in Singareni Collieries at Manuguru was affected.
 
 According to official rainfall figures recorded between fall figures recorded between 8.30am on Monday and 8.30am on Tuesday , 30 districts either received excess or normal rainfall.
 
 While three districts, Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy and Kothagudem-Bhadrachalam, received more than excess rainfall, 11 districts such as Mahbubabad, Warangal (Rural), Siddipet, Medchal-Malkajgiri recorded excess rainfall. Normal rainfall was reported in sixteen districts.Only Mancherial district still has deficit rainfall. Irrigation department officials said many streams in Khammam and Kothagudem district are full and water level in Hussainsgar too is rising.
 
 However, officials said it needs some more   for the city's drinking water sources and   in the state to be full.
 
 “City drinking water sources like Osmansagar and Himayatsagar as well as major reservoirs such as Nagarjunasagar, Sriramsagar, Srisailam, Yellampally , Manair, Singur and Manjeera still need inflows for them to be full. If rain continues like this for another four to five days, all these reservoirs will become full to the brim,“ a senior official of irrigation department told TOI.
 
 According to the rainfall forecast bulletin by Telangana State Development   , monsoon depression will continue till July 20. “Thereafter, the rainfall intensity will increase over north and north-eastern parts such as Adilabad, Komaram Bheem-Asifabad, Mancherial, Nirmal, Nizamabad, Kamareddy , Rajanna-Siricilla, Karimnagar, Jagtial, Peddapalli,   ,“ the bulletin said..
 
