MYSURU: Ahead of poll notification, which is expected to be issued by the   shortly, district minister H C Mahadevappa toured Nanjangud segment and launched works to construct community halls, including Basava Bhavan for Lingayats, who form the majority among 2.02 lakh voters in the segment.

 However, the minister asserted that the launching of projects to build Edigara Bhavan and Basava Bhavan should not be linked to the byelection to Nanjangud assembly segment.
 
 During the launch of the projects,   leader  , who is the prospective Congress nominee, was with the minister along with Chamarajanagar MP R Dhruvanarayana.
 
 This comes close on the heels of a similar tour in the constituency by BJP leaders. Though former minister V Srinivas Prasad has not started touring the constituency, his followers have soft-launched the campaign. Parallelly, BJP leaders led by former chief minister   are working out strategies to get support from Lingayats. After Lingayats, it is dalits who form the largest chunk followed by Upparas, Nayaks and Kurubas.
 
 Prasad resigned from the assembly on October 20, necessitating the byelection. He had joined BJP, which is pulling out all stops to ensure his victory in the reserved constituency, even as Congress leaders are trying to win over the electorate.
 
 Mahadevappa said that he has got released over Rs 600 crore for various projects for different projects in Nanjangud taluk. “This is not for political reasons, but because Nanjangud is my hometown,” he said while addressing a gartheirng during the launch of the works to construct the community halls. Mahadevappa is a native of Haadinaru in the taluk.
 
 “(Though) Many projects were sanctioned, money was not released,” Mahadevappa said, indicating that Prasad failed to follow-up and get the money released. Without taking Prasad’s name, the minister targeted his followers, mainly K R Mohan Kumar, who served as the chief of   (Muda). “Kumar didn’t focus on improving infrastructure at the temple town, despite being a native of Nanjangud,” he claimed.
 
 Mahadevappa said that people are free to vote for any party of their choice. He also indicated that the fight is only between Congress and BJP.
 
