MUMBAI: After four months of chaos over assessment in the online mode,   has finally managed to announce results of all the 477 exams held in April-May this year.They were expected in June-July.

 Close to 10,000 results, though, are still on reserve and more than 4,000   are yet to be assessed. The university also has received over 34,000 applications for revaluation till date, which will be the primary focus of the university in the next few weeks. Students continue to report anomalies in their results. Fresh complaints have surfaced from students who claimed that their seat numbers are missing from the list of results issued by the university.
 
 Arjun Ghatule, acting director (examinations and evaluations), said the university has finally managed to announce all the results. “The focus will be now on the pending results and cases of revaluation. The university has received over 34,000 applications from students. The university has started working on the revaluation requests. These papers will be made available to teachers for assessment in a day or two," said Ghatule. The university's unpreparedness before implementing online assessment of over 22 lakh answer sheets in all faculties, unleashed mayhem. Several students have lost admission opportunities due to delays in announcement results and are forced to take a year's drop and many are still struggling.
 
 An official from the university said all the officials who have been given in-charge positions will continue to work even if all results are out. “Once all the issues raised by students are addressed, announcement of the pending results are done, and revaluation applications are resolved, this examination work will be considered complete," said the official.
 
 Two final-year BCom (accounts and finance) students from the Clara's College of Commerce, Andheri, were shocked to find their names or seat numbers missing from the college's results. “We approached our college authorities, they have asked us to go the university with our grievances. We heard students are being marked absent in their results and they were kept on hold, but we did not even find our seat numbers online or in the consolidated marksheets that the college received. We are now worried about our results," said one of the two students. Even as the university is struggling to resolve all the issues from the exam in April-May, preparations have started for the upcoming October-November exams. “A final decision on whether the answer sheets are to be assessed in the online mode in the upcoming exam is yet to be taken.Other exam-related work has already begun," said Ghatule.
 
