Think book stores and this is undoubtedly one of the first names that will pop up in your head. Located in the heart of the capital city, at the foot of the steps leading to the magnificent Church of Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception, Singbal’s Book House, with its indigo façade and pristine white windows has been a name to reckon with for quite a number of years now.

 The book store was begun way back in 1936 by Kashinath Singbal. Its most prominent feature back then was the variety of Portuguese books one could lay their hands on there. Another unique selling point of Singbal’s, as it is most commonly referred to by locals, was the range of education-related material it stocked, especially notebooks and textbooks. Today, though one will also find numerous fiction and non-fiction books, magazines and children’s books, these school books are still their top sellers.
 
 While the reins of Singbal’s were handed down by Kashinath to his son, Subhash, the store is now managed and operated by Subhash’s son and daughter-in-law, Ajit and Roma. The couple have been at the helm of affairs of Singbal’s for close to eight years now. The duo, for whom the book store is nothing less than a second home, continue to nurture it with the same level of love and care as their predecessors. While they have carried out renovations to keep up with the times, they have paid attention to retaining most of the notable features of the book store, especially its eye-catching windows. 
 
 “We have also introduced a wider variety of books from across genres to cater to the needs of every customer,” Roma says.
 
 One notable section in the store is the window display dedicated to a Goan who has brought fame to the state through his amazing cartooning skills and tongue-in-cheek sense of humour, the legendary Mario Miranda. The store also has shelves upon shelves of books dedicated to Goa, her history, her geography, her language, her well-known points, her famous sons and daughters and her cuisine, among others.
 
 While strategic location has played a huge role in ensuring the popularity of Singbal’s, the most pertinent question is how the store has managed to stay relevant, especially now, in the times of virtual books being available at one’s fingertips. “Our biggest customer base is tourists and students. While tourists come looking for books about Goa, we ensure that we cater to our student client base by making available a wide range of educative books, such as guides, digests, question paper compilations, etc,” says Ajit.
 
 A few years ago, the Singbals tried their hand in publishing and even brought a book titled, ‘Mundo Goa’. Soon enough, however, they decided to stick to their forte, the retail book business. A decision well made as the book house has only excelled and cemented its spot in the hearts and minds of book lovers. 
 
 
