 kick-started its newest season on April 2. The reality series is about couples showcasing their dancing talent to the world and competing with other contestants for the much-coveted trophy. The episode that aired last night was merely to introduce the contestants, the judges and the hosts to the audience. But how did it fare? Well, this time around it seems more like a show that is banking heavily on its stars, with nothing new to offer beyond that.
 
 The show has sets grander and bigger than before. All three judges have to look into three parameters to rate the contestants - Entertainment (Sonakshi Sinha), Dance (Terence Lewis) and Romance (Mohit Suri). Karan Tacker is the host of the eighth season.
  
 The show began with a choreographed performance by the contestants and the judges on the title track of Nach Baliye, and then without much ado, jumped straight into the performances. Each couple talked about their love story before their act, and that certainly helped to connect better with them.
 
  
  
 Highlight of the show: It was when   and   re-enacted their proposal scene for the judges. Also, Bharti made everyone go 'aww' when she confessed her love for Haarsh and called him the writer of her love story. Dipika and Shoaib weren't behind either. Dipika recited a poem for Shoaib which brought everyone to tears. The funniest bit was when Mohit Suri and Bharti Singh recreated the ' Aashiqui' moment on screen, leaving the audience in splits. 
  
 Strong and Weak Contestants: Going by the performances in the first episode, Divyanka-Vivek, Aashka-Brent, Sanam-Abigail, Dipika-Shoaib, Pritam-Amanjot, Sanaya-Mohit came across as strong contenders for the trophy and Jhalak Prize. While Bharti-Haarsh, Trupti-Siddharth, Monalisa-Vikrant, Utkarsha-Manoj did not deliver as well as they could have. 
  
 While we are yet to see how the show unfolds, going by the first episode, we think it could have been made unique in some way. Having comedian Siddharth and Bharti on board might help in the entertainment quotient, but how the contestants fare in the coming episodes remains to be seen.
 
 
 
  
  
 
