

 Mandrem, also known as Mandre, the abode of white sandy beaches is one of the biggest villages of   in terms of area and population.
 
 The 1,88,93,737 sq m   is home to 8,336 people of whom 7,100 are electorates. Like its other counterparts in Pernem, it produced the finest masons (those skilled to cut, lay and dress stone while building). At one point of history, its land had belonged to Muslims and had Mohammedan names like Kabir Khan, Ramzan, Yana Khan, Poshe Khan, Rehman Khan, Ude Khan. 
 
 “Today not a single original Muslim inhabitant resides here,” said Tukaram Shridhar Mhamal from Deul vaddo. He added that etymologically   is derived from the Arabic word, ‘Mudras’ which means teacher. With the Muslim rule came the opportunity for trade with the Arab world. Under their reign, there used to be a place called Alkhand in the village where the most precious horses from Saudi Arabia were sold to many local chieftains of the time by Arab traders.
 
 Bordered by the   and five villages, Mandrem has 11 wards. “Geographically the village is situated in such a way that you can cover all the wards if you circle it. The wards are situated one after the other,” said Prasad Shahapurkar of Dandos vaddo. Mandrem tends to get a lot of visitors as it is surrounded by Morjim, Arambol, Korgao, Parcem and Agarwada-Chopdem.
 
 With the increased tourist footfalls, the aesthetics of the village is constantly evolving. “The youth are working to retain the identity of Mandrem, by raising issues which go against the interest of the village. Another silver lining is Mandrem’s notable feat on garbage collection which has been possible due to the efforts of the people and its village panchayat,” added Shahapurkar.
 
 Residents’ Speak
 
 Mandrem was once a beautiful village and was renowned for fishing, toddy tapping, exotic palms, and cashew feni. It produced famous masons, carpenters, musicians and artistes. Under the reign of Muslim rulers, there was a place called Alkhand where the most precious horses from Saudi Arabia were sold to many local chieftains of the time by Arab traders
 
 Francisco de Souza | resident of Madhala Maj
 
 Mandrem's development model has been haphazard and not in sync with the environment. The razing of trees, including coconut palms, next to the beach is turning the pristine village into a concrete jungle. The influx of migrants who are now taking over local trade and business too, is further damaging the identity of the village
 
 Govind Moreshwar Parsekar | resident of Deul Vaddo
 
 Sarpanch’s take
 
 The utter failure on the part of the Goa government to put a demarcation wall, at least 60cm in height, on the land it had acquired more than 10 years ago has led to encroachments and the resultant congestion has dented the beauty of Mandrem. State authorities, in particular, should be transparent in disseminating information on the land acquired and it would deter people from infringing on village public land
 
 Vaishali Shirodkar 
 
 RENOWNED RESIDENTS
 
 Late Vasundevrao V Mandrenkar | Dean of Sir J J School of Art, Mumbai
 
 Late Bhau Daji Lad | Physician, Sanskrit researcher and antique collector. He was born in his maternal grandmother’s house in Aska vaddo
 
 Late Jack de Souza | Ace violinist who had formed the band Jack and his Jolly Boys before migrating to Bombay and becoming a choir master in Andheri Church
 
 Late Manuel de Souza | Son of Jack de Souza was expert on the saxaphone, flute, clarinet, violin. He settled in Bombay where he played with Braz Gonsalves and other famous musicians of the film industry
 
 Joaquim de Souza | Younger brother of Manuel de Souza has a diploma in music from Trinity College, London. He plays the saxaphone, flute, clarinet, violin and piano
 
 Andre Gregorio Britto | The 85-year-old trumpeter was a protégé of Jack de Souza
 
 Anurag Mhamal | Goa’s first international master in chess
 
 Tukaram Shridhar Mhamal | Member of India’s West Zone Cultural Committee from 1993-1997. A former educationist and cultural exponent of Goa’s traditional dances like Romat or Mell, Talgadi, Kunbi
 
 Heritage Trail
 
 Organic Farm 
 
 It is a lush green area of Deulvaddo where no land is left barren without plantation. The place is reputed for organic farming. Plants and trees like coconut, betel nut , jackfruit, mango, pepper, nutmeg etc are taken care through indigenous techniques like mulching i.e., biodegrading leaves and other organic matter,and digging depths for harvesting rain water etc
 
 Ashvem beach 
 
 The white sandy beach enveloped by the crystal clear water of the Arabian Sea on the one hand and River Mandrem on the other is one of the beautiful beaches of Goa. It is also a nesting place for the endangered Olive Ridley Turtle
 
 Bhagwati temple 
 
 The 300-year-old temple at Deul vaddo is presently undergoing renovation. It draws thousands of devotees in October for the saptah (7-day festival) and zatra (procession of deities)
 
 Marchi Kond (Blessed Point) 
 
 The central point in the village for the immersion of the idol of Lord Ganesha in River Mandrem
 
 Parsekar house 
 
 The oldest house of Mandrem situated at Deul vaddo belongs to a Parsekar family
 
 Mahalaxmi temple 
 
 Located at Junas vaddo, this place of worship belonging to the Dessai Dev family covers 2,000 sq m. It is most frequented on Ram Navami
 
 Mandre high school 
 
 The government-aided educational institution at Deul vaddo came into being in 1969 and has been catering to the educational needs of students from Classes I to X
 
 Our Lady of Rosary Church
 
 Before the church was built in 1932, Mandrem had a chapel which was constructed in 1887 and was attached to Our Lady of Mount Carmel in Arambol. The church feast is celebrated on the 3rd Sunday every November
 
 Pir 
 
 A revered place frequented by Muslims and people of other faiths is situated at the famed Parsekar property in Deul vaddo
 
 
