Jaipur: The construction of the underpass, proposed between SMS Hospital and the trauma care centre across the road, is expected to begin soon.

 At the executive committee meeting held on Wednesday, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) gave its approval to the technical bid for the build-operate-transfer (BOT) project.
 
 To recover the construction cost, the JDA will construct shops in the underpass and rent them out for medical and food shops.
 
 The Rs 15-crore underpass will be 24 metres long and 10 feet wide. As per the initial proposal, 22 shops will be constructed on either side of the underpass. A provision to build a three-feet-wide footpath in front of shops has been included in the proposal. “At the meeting, the bid document for the project was approved. The detailed project report (DPR) has been prepared and tender will be invited soon,” a JDA official said.
 
 The underpass will connect the trauma care centre and the underground parking area of SMS Hospital. The passageway will be designed in such a manner to enable stretchers to be taken through quickly.
 
 The project was conceptualised three-and-a-half-years ago during the then Congress government. However, it was delayed as the hospital fell on the Jaipur Metro Phase-II route.
 
 Once the long-pending underpass is constructed, patients and the public will not have to risk crossing the heavy traffic on the road. Recently, the health minister had also urged completing the underpass quickly for the convenience of patients.
 
 With the rise in number of accidents on the road, the hospital administration had demanded an underpass several times before.
 
 The meeting also approved the proposal to construct sector roads and drainage. Decision has been taken to compensate those who will lose their shops for the construction of service lane between Sanganer and Sitapura flyover.
 
 “During Resurgent Rajasthan, the JDA had demolished several shops which they claimed to be encroachments. Compensation will be provided to 33% of the shop owners,” the JDA official said.
 
 
