MUMBAI: A 39-year-old school bus   has been   and sentenced to three years in jail for molesting a 10-year-old on the vehicle in 2014. 

 The child was on her way home in the suburbs when the drunk accused grabbed her by the hair and ran his hand over her chest. The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act court refused the defence contention that the girl had implicated   as he had scolded her for being naughty. 
 
 The child was one among the witnesses to depose before the special court. She said that on February 6, 2014, she was returning home in the school bus. She deposed that on the day of the crime, the attendant came towards her and fell down. He was close to her and she could smell alcohol on his breath. He assaulted her and she began to cry.
 
 The frightened child immediately got down from the bus before her regular stop along with two other students. Finding the mother of one of her friends at the stop, she burst out crying and confided in her. Meanwhile, her mother too arrived at the bus stop and was told about the incident. 
 
 The mother then told the child’s father after he returned home later that night. The following day, the parents and the child went to the school and met the principal. It was found that on the day of the incident, there had been no woman attendant on the bus. Later that day, they went to the police station and lodged a complaint.
 
 While referring to the child’s testimony, the court held that there was nothing in her cross-examination to disbelieve her. “There is nothing in her evidence to indicate that she is a tutored witness. Whereas her evidence reflects from her cross-examination that the incident which took place with her was clearly imprinted in her brain,” the court held.
 
 The woman whom the child first confided in also deposed before the court and corroborated what had happened after she got off the bus. Another child present on the bus said that he was sitting behind the victim and had seen the accused touch her.
 
 The defence attempted to derail the prosecution’s case by submitted that the parents had contacted the cops only the following day. The mother had said that the father had arrived late that day and they also went to the school to verify certain details with the principal. However the court held that the fact that they went to the principal first and attempted to confirm it, showed that there was no material to show that he was falsely implicated. “The delay caused which has been already explained by the prosecution was not fatal to the case.”
 
 
