HYDERABAD: Making it clear that the bulldozing tactics of the K Chandrasekhar Rao-led TRS government cannot suppress the voice of dissent, Telangana political JAC leader Prof M Kodandaram said he will lead a train-full of protesters and leaders to Delhi in August demanding “restoration of the right to protest at Dharna Chowk“.

 “We are going to book all the seats in a train from Hyderabad to Delhi and hold a protest at   on August 22,“ he told TOI on the sidelines of a three-day `People's convention against FTAs and RCEP' organised by the People's Resistance Forum.
 
 The current dispensation is shrinking the democratic space to protest, Kodandaram said, adding: “By raising the issue in Delhi, we hope to build moral pressure on TRS through the Centre.“ Since the closure of Dharna Chowk, protesters have adopted the `wild cat strategy' to raise grievances. Most of them, be it fair price shop dealers or the farmer who attempted suicide, are trying to give a slip to the police and protesting in front of Pragati Bhavan, the camp office-cum-residence of the chief minister.
 
 Earlier, Kodandaram said no international agreement, including the Free Trade Agreement (FTA) and the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) that is currently under negotiation, should be signed by central government without the approval of Parliament.
 
 Any agreement that will have an impact on large sections of the public, should be first debated with all stakeholders before being placed in Parliament for approval. But this is a case in which the entire FTA and RCEP process is being conducted secretly and none of the material is made public, Kodandaram said.
 
 Yogendra Yadav of   also spoke on “resisting the onslaught of free trade agreements and corporate dominance.“
 
 
 
 
 Negotiations over the Free Trade Agreements (FTA) and Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) are being held secretly without consulting stakeholders, even as they will result in destinies of billions of people being signed away to international corporations, Dr. Amit Sengupta of Peoples Health Movement said at the three-day convention.
 
 Jawaharlal Nehru University professor   said   are designed in such a way as to eliminate the power of Indian government to address problems arising out of products sold by MNCs. The People's Resistance Forum will organise a protest rally at People's Plaza at 10am on Monday. 
 
