LUCKNOW: They overcame the lingual gap using the language of Yoga.  , besides 13 other countries displayed the power of yoga and meditation through Indian classical music and dance at   on Monday. 

 Organized by the   university in association with the Yogdhara organization, the aim of the event was to popularize meditation among students to handle stress and depression in the examination season. The Yoga enthusiasts from foreign lands presented various nuances of the ancient therapeutic discipline such as ‘Kundalini Jagaran’ and ‘Dhyan’, set to the tune of Indian classical music.
 
 In true Indian tradition, they began with   the show that comprised instrumental music recitals, classical dance performance and demonstration of yoga. As many as 38 artists from 15 countries connected easily with the spell-bound audience performing not only the various yoga acts but also the Kuchipudi and Kathak dance forms.
 
 “My friend has radiance on his face and was more positive in his thought than ever and when I asked him about the change he told me about meditation and yoga, so I have been practising it for more than five years,” said Erika from Lithuania. She said a mere 5-minute session of mediation is solution to most problems. “After practising yoga for years without gap, I feel like a superwoman.”
 
 Youngest in the group, 17-year-old Kateryna from Ukraine, who played the flute and performed Kathak drew hearty applause. She said not only yoga and meditation but Indian classical dance and instruments also fills one with positive energy. Sharing the scientific aspect of yoga and meditation, Chiang from New Zealand, a student of bachelors of medicine and surgery said, “A study was conducted in my country on stress levels of people practising ‘sahaj’ (easy) yoga and it was found their stress level was considerably lower than others.”
 
 Presenting ancient Indian yoga with foreign flavour, the artists exhorted university students to practise 5-minute yoga daily for personality development and stress management.
 
