Despite being talented, surviving the hardships and establishing a foothold in the industry is probably the most challenging aspect of being a professional television actor today. Some eventually break through the grid and make it big with stardom but most of them wait for that one lucky break. In the midst of a rapidly evolving and competitive environment,   is one such name who has survived escalating competition from her peers and proved her mettle. She's recently won Nach Baliye Season 8 and has emerged as one of the leading television actors.
 
  But as much as she enjoys her stardom today, we asked her about the lesser known struggles of the glamour world. "An actor's world is full of never-ending struggle, hardships, shocks and surprises! The glamour industry is an adventure on its own. You never know what all you get to face climbing up the steps of success or falling down into the pit of never-ending stagnancy that hurts your self-respect forever," she says.
  
  
 
  
  "The assumption is that if you are in showbiz, you can make demands, and people treat your wish as their command. Reality can be far different and brutal from this imagined construct. On TV or big screen everything looks easily achievable, be it romance or action portrayed by the actors or the fame, fandom and awards they receive. Seldom do people know the struggles and sacrifices one has to make to be here," she confesses.
  
  She knows of budding actors who have done free projects, often having to support odd jobs on the side to make ends meet, and carving out a corner for themselves showing how far they have come from their humble origins. "When a person decides to enter this industry he/she must know, it's riskier than stock market investments and it is subject to market risks. One must think positively while being prepared for the worst," says the Ye Hai Mohabbatein actor.
  
  For most people on the outside, it is a world of glamour, where actors get to rub shoulders with a glitzy reality, a magnet that attracts hundreds, if not thousands, every day to Mumbai with dreams in their eyes of making it big.
  
  
 
  
  "Constantly being scrutinised, constantly in the glare, being judged for every appearance where there are no re-takes for opportunities lost. And the insecurities that drive people but also shake the foundation - when is an actor successful, hat constitutes success, who decides, and when does one give up or say it's time to move on, and is that really possible in our little worlds we build around us that constantly talks of a shelf-life and keeps the remote close at hand, where one twitch or missed beat could mean the end of a career," mentions Divyanka.
  
  Divyanka adds, "Self analysis is important to sustain in this industry. One must know one's capabilities and flaws. If not aware, then explore. Also, setting unrealistic goals should be avoided. Analyse yourself from a casting director's eye. and keep in mind what strengths you can focus on. you were a commodity (hypothetically), sell yourself in a market where there's a demand or dearth of a particular product like you."
