LUCKNOW: Appearing in the first-ever quiz for youths to create a bond with freedom fighter Bhagat Singh, college student Mansi Shukla felt embarrassed on how little she knew about the revolutionary who gave up his life for the country and its people.She, however, finished the quiz with the pride of gaining unique information throwing light on the revolutionary's life on his 110th birth anniversary on Wednesday.

 Titled `Bhagat Singh Se Dosti', the quiz saw around 900 students, including differently abled students of the national rehabilitation university , taking part in the event organised at several city-based colleges and, simultaneously , at Sheroes Hangout Cafe and over the internet. Based on the life, ideas, philosophy and available records of the martyr, students had to answer 45 unique questions in 45 minutes. The quiz was organised by citizen-driven initiatives Dastak, Lucknow Collective and The Culture Factory .
 
 Another student, Urvashi Kasera, said she came to know the unknown facets of the youth icon's life and times. Scribbling with enthusiasm as many answers as he could, Mohd Salim Aziz said, “Bhagat Singh gave up his life for the nation and his sacrifice can never be forgotten. I am glad that this quiz reinforces in us to learn and know about our leaders.“ “We call ourselves youth, but we know so little about the one youth icon whom we should all look up to. The quiz has shaken my conscience and motivated me to read up on the lives of our freedom fighters,“ said Riya Jain, another student. “I did not know a lot of things in such depth about Shaheed Bhagat Singh before this quiz. Even though I knew a lot of the answers, the questions were such that I got informed in turn,“ added Ritwik Shukla.
 
 The quiz will continue to engage students until March 23, Shaheed Diwas -the death anniversary of Bhagat Singh.
 
 “The aim is to shake up the youth so that in times of massive social media information, they can differentiate between right and wrong,“ said convener Deepak Kabir.
 
