MUMBAI:   has seen the maximum count of candidates who have made the cut this year to take the gruelling JEE (Advanced) exams. Maharashtra has moved up one spot, from third last year to second, and Rajasthan, which was second, is now a close third. 

 Interestingly, of the 2.2 lakh candidates who cleared the first barrier of the JEE (Main), 19% were girls, and the largest chunk hail from Maharashtra, followed by Telangana. Like the past few years, what hasn't altered is the high success rate of high school graduates from the   board. 
 
 "Many CBSE students always managed to crack the JEE. But we see that each year, the dynamics of the other state boards change," said an   director. "Even among the top rankers, we see a kind of shift after each exam," he added.
 
 From among the Maharashtra students, those from Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and Latur have been doing well in the overall JEE results and more have been eventually getting selected at the Indian Institutes of Technology.
 
 "The integrated approach where students are trained for entrance tests in their junior colleges is showing a good success rate among our students. Several students from interior Maharashtra too migrate to the city for the two years of their preparation," said Praveen Tyagi, chairman, Pace Junior Science Colleges.
 
 Moreover, girl enrolment for coaching in Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur has risen, and most of them stay back instead of travelling to Kota or the southern states that are coaching hubs as parents prefer to have them closer home, added Tyagi.
 
 Bihar, which was at number four in 2016, has slipped two spots this time. But students from Kerala have upped their game-while that state did not figure in the top 15 positions last year, it is up at the ninth rank this year.
 
 Data from the IITs which conduct the JEE (Advanced) exams shows that students from the five southern states of AP, Telangana, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu account for 35% share of the student pool. Telangana and AP together would have made it to pole position.
 
 In all, of those who made the mark and registered, 1.74 lakh students will take the   Advanced exams on May 21. "Some may not have registered as they may have felt they are not cut out for the IITs, some may want to pursue another discipline like medicine or go abroad, and some others may want to join an engineering college in their state," said a JEE official.
 
