NAGPUR: Accompanying a friend to an orientation programme for a free foreign language course a decade ago,   had never imagined that some day she would not only fluently speak, read and write  , but also teach it to many others.

 On November 7, 2006,   (IPIL) had launched a three-month certificate   course on pilot basis in association with Vidarbha Sahitya Sangh (VSS) at Jhansi Rani Square. Mankeshwar and her friend, both teachers of spoken English at a private institute then, attended the lecture out of curiosity after reading about it in the newspapers.
 
 “Monday used to be our weekly off, so we went to the lecture,” says Mankeshwar. Though her friend didn’t join, Mankeshwar enrolled for the course, which, as she put it, turned out to be ‘ibtida’ of her role as an Arabic instructor. “Ibtida means beginning in Arabic. This was the first word of this foreign language that I learnt.”
 
 IPIL director Abdul Gafoor Parekh, his subordinates Mobin Rehman and Salahuddin Shaikh used to hold the classes in the early days. Over the last decade, Mankeshwar has joined them in teaching around 30 batches of students at VSS, 10 batches at India Peace Centre, and 10 at   schools and LAD college. Every batch has people from all religious backgrounds, including Muslims.
 
 The simple beginning removed all doubts about Arabic from Mankeshwar’s mind and prepared her to take on challenges in the learning process. “Indians have an advantage over any other race. We already know 30 to 40% of Arabic words, thanks to our knowledge of Hindi and Marathi, and Bollywood songs,” she says, humming Ibtiday-e-ishq main hum sari raat jage, Allah jane kya hoga … from a popular Hindi film.
 
 “During my college days, I had studied the basics of Urdu but couldn’t completely learn the language,” she says. Later, she learnt Urdu through a similar free course taught by Qamar Hayat at VSS.
 
 After completing the Arabic course, Mankeshwar joined an evening course in Bengali at a different institute. One day in 2007, Parekh walked into the institute where Mankeshwar used to teach spoken English. After the class, he invited her to teach Arabic at VSS, which she accepted after some thought.
 
 “People asked me why Arabic of all the languages of the world. I countered why not Arabic, if we can learn and teach other foreign languages like German and French,” she recalls.
 
 Mankeshwar says such questions cropped up because of the stigma attached to Arabic. “Initially, there was acceptance problem as it is linked to a specific community.”
 
 To help students overcome biases, Mankeshwar compiled two books ‘Learn Arabic with Playway Method’ and ‘Indian Stars’. The first deals with grammar and basics of language while the second consists of biographies of personalities such as Swami Vivekanand,   and APJ   in Arabic language.
 
 Mankeshwar has also been reading the holy Koran, which she says is in pure Arabic. “The Arabs haven’t done much to promote the language, and there is a dearth of literature.”
 
 IPIL director Abdul Gafoor Parekh says, “Aparna is one of the best teachers we have. She is dedicated, serious and a marvellous human being. All the credit for her success goes to her efforts and God.”
 
 Commenting on the advantages of Arabic, he says, “When you learn Arabic, you can read Urdu, Sindhi and Kashmir. Arabic is the sister of Hebrew. It has very less vocabulary. This the most advanced language scientifically and technically. It has unique qualities, as its grammar is very easy to learn.” 
 
 
