For the  , being in the   is not just a matter of choice, it has been a part of their   since the 80s. The reason being that trees help keep us in the pink of health. Bengalureans too can aspire to   to stay healthy at the tree park that is taking shape at the  .

 Encroachment, government institutions, the realty sector and every other force of development ate into the Kadugodi Plantation to an extent that very little of it survived. But with the green voices prevailing, a tree park will be established on 71 acres inside the plantation.
 
 What makes this plan more crucial is that the plantation is located in Whitefield, a part of the city that even lost its original character to rapid development.
 
 This will be the first tree park in eastern Bengaluru. A tree park is an area where nature is allowed to take its course, and where people in the city can head to if they want a feel of the forest. Kadugodi plantation is the single largest land parcel in Bengaluru owned by the government. Though it was notified as a reserve forest on May 29,1896, the space has been on an gradual decline. It was supposed to get the highest order of protection to any statutorily notified forest, but land from this forest was granted in parts to government and private bodies through Government orders.
 
 On the 70 acres that remain today, a forest administration training academy and a forest nursery occupy 42 acres, while the Halasu (jackfruit) plot stands on the remaining 25 acres. Only this patch has remained true to its nature and is protected by a compound wall all around it.
 
 
 Dipika Bajpai, Deputy Conservator of Forests, Bengaluru Urban, said this is the plot that will be opened to people in the form of a tree park. Bajpai told BM the city has seen a rapid decline in its green cover, its air quality has worsened and lakes are drying up. “The concept of the tree park is unique in a way that it doesn’t have any horticultural intervention and maintains the wilderness as that of a natural forest. Basic amenities are created for citizens. The tree park will be open to the public from July. We are looking for tie-ups with companies,” she said.
 
 
 
 
 The area was earlier used by the forest department to develop better varieties of jackfruit trees and their suitability to various sites. This project was abandoned due to poor results. Many other species were planted and with time, natural regeneration set in, and today sandalwood regeneration is profuse in the area. “The fight for preservation of forests cannot be won by the Forest Department unless it comes from the people themselves. So we endeavour to create many such interfaces wherever the opportunity exists,” Bajpai said.
 
 Bengaluru has been fighting to save Kadugodi Plantations for a long time now, but the pressure from realty market has been immense. This land is valued at over Rs 10,000 crore. In 2006, a joint Legislature Committee had surveyed the area and reported the Kadugodi Plantation had been encroached upon by the Railways, KIADB, police department, animal husbandry department and many others. The government also planned to build a ‘Legislature Township’ for netas and employees of the Karnataka secretariat in this area, but that plan was nixed.
 
