Hyderabad: A whiff of freshly baked cookies wafts over the mundane Nampally market area, drawing you to this nearly 70-year old bakery that’s gained fame for its yummy and melt-in-the-mouth Osmania biscuits.

 But much before its Osmania biscuits became the favourite cookie of Hyderabadis,   Bakery was better known as a major supplier of breads in the city in the 1950s and 60s. In fact, what many may also not know is that the bakery even supplied wheat bread to be served for Jawaharlal Nehru’s breakfast during his visit to the city in 1950s.
 
 The bakery was set up by Syed Khader in 1948 at a small garage in Red Hills. He used to earlier work with his family members at a bakery in Kalasiguda at Secunderabad that used to supply bread to the British regiment.
 
 “We are traditional bakers. While Subhan Bakery is close to 70 years old now and is being run by the third generation...baking has been our family profession for over seven generations now. My forefathers used to work in the bakery of an British establishment and that is how they learned the art of baking, which was passed on from generation to generation,” says Syed Irfan, a member of the third generation running the family business. He points out that within two years of setting up the bakery in the Red Hills area, his grandfather shifted it to a bigger premises in Nampally in 1950, where it still stands tall. Irfan points out that during his grandfather’s days, the Nawabs used to be the main buyers of their breads. Otherwise, it was only commoners that used to buy bread only when they were sick. In 1951, Syed Khader named the bakery Subhan Bakery after his son, Syed Subhan. With a new name, the bakery, that used to primarily bake breads and rusks, added new items such as Khara biscuit, Chand biscuits and Osmania biscuits to its shelves in that decade. 
 
 In the 1960s, Syed Subhan too joined the business along with his brother and the duo introduced cakes and puffs to the menu. “My father’s (Syed Subhan) major contribution was that he modernised the business and renovated the entire shop. He used to tell me that the bakery should be famous for at least one item and this thought remained with me. That is how I started experimenting and came up with a new process of preparing Osmania biscuits in late 1990s. We got a very good response from the market,” he adds. Today Subhan Bakery is famous for Osmania cookies and Irfan shares a secret with a grin. “It’s a secret recipe that makes our biscuits taste better,” says Subhan, but refuses to spell out what it is. Irfan, who runs Subhan Bakery along with his brother Syed Imran, feels that the bakery has been able to carve a niche for itself in a cluttered market like Hyderabad because the family has been passionate about the craft of baking and is hands on when it comes to introducing new varieties or improvising on existing ones. Along with Osmania cookies, today the bakery churns out around 15 kinds of biscuits such as oats cookies, cashew biscuits, Dum ka Roat, rawa cookies and fruit biscuits, among others.
 
 The family has also been extensively using the online platform to market its cookies far and wide and is also planning to set up another outlet in either Secunderabad or HiTec city area in the coming days as well. 
 
 
