THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   has decided to recruit 20 lifeguards on daily wage basis for deployment on the popular beaches in Kerala. The move, though a meagre reinforcement and much below the actual requirement, comes following repeated demands from the tourism industry and similar proposals by officials concerned.

 The 20 vacancies for six districts interestingly include two for Wayanad, which doesn't have a coastline. While the officials were unable to clarify on the inclusion of Wayanad, sources said the actual demand was for at least around 100 additional lifeguards.
 
 Currently , 10 to 15 rescue cases are reported from across the beaches in Kerala every month. This figure is expected to go up during the turbulent monsoon months between May and August. “Swimmer fatalities are very rare in beaches where guards are deployed, but we have several popular but unguarded beaches like those at Poovar and in the northern districts,“ said S  , the chief lifeguard coordinator and trainer under the state tourism department.
 
 There are around 140 daily wage lifeguards deployed on the beaches in the nine coastal districts of the state. Of them, 30 guards and two supervisors alone are deployed at Kovalam.Two beaches in   and   ­ have the service of 24 guards while Varkala has 16.
 
 Over the past three decades of its existence in Kerala, the lifeguard service had wit nessed a major recruitment of around 100 guards, way back in 2007. “The guards, equipped with rescue tubes, lifebuoys, rescue boards and ropes, work on an alternate day-shift,“ Nair said.
 
 The recruits will be selected from three categories ­­ fishermen, general and ex-Navy . The candidates from fishermen community need to produce a certificate from fisheries department to prove their knowledge of swimming in the sea, while those applying in the general category should have participated in  .Those from the Navy should have a minimum of 15 years of service.
 
 The selected candidates will be given adequate training, to get familiarized with dangers in the waters off the beach. With March 15 set as the deadline for receiving applications, the reinforcement is expected to be in place in another couple of months.
 
