Gurgaon: A mahapanchayat of Muslims organised in Punhana, Mewat, has announced several social reform decisions, including a complete ban on dowry and rights for women on their father’s property, as per Islamic laws. Sunday’s mahapanchayat was attended by thousands from over a hundred villages of Haryana and neighbouring Rajasthan and UP, who vowed to ostracise those who spend heavily on wedding ceremonies.

 Among the main decisions adopted by the congregation were compulsory Sharia compliance for weddings, returning dowry if already accepted, ban on ‘bhaat’ and ring ceremonies, making the groom’s family responsible for taking the bride home, only 11 people allowed in a groom’s wedding party, a maximum of 35gm silver to be allowed as ‘mehar’, ban on fireworks and DJ at weddings, instead of dowry the bride to be given a share in her father’s property, financially stable villagers to aid in the wedding of a girl from a poor family, etc. It was also decided that committees would be formed in each village to ensure these resolutions are properly followed.
 
 The mahapanchayat was headed by maulana Sheikh-ul-Hadees of Rajasthan’s Jamia Islamia Dar-ul-uloom Muhammadia Meel Kherla madarsa, and conducted by Saheb Khan Patwari. Several ulemas and politicians were also present, along with representatives of different villages. The congregation also decided to do away with certain old practices that were declared retrograde. Local MLA Rashid Rahees Khan and other sitting and former local representatives announced they will not attend weddings where these orders were not being followed.
 
 “No religious or social leader, including ulemas, maulvis and qazis, will attend any such wedding where these decisions are not followed. Dowry is an evil that’s eating up our society like a termite. We have to ensure it’s eradicated,” said MLA Khan.
 
 The mahapanchayat’s latest decisions come a little over a month after 110 villages from three neighbouring states — Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh — in a sweeping move to inculcate healthy habits and curb open defecation in rural areas, decided that no toilet would mean no bride for a family. Around 1,200 villagers from the three states took part in that Muslim-only mahapanchayat at Tiwara village in Punhana sub-division of Nuh, around 100km from Gurgaon, in early February, and unanimously decided to not give their daughters in marriage to households which do not have loos. They have also decided to ban liquor consumption and DJ music at weddings to check overheads, the burden of which often fall on the brides’ families.
 
 
