Kapil Sharma, who has been in news for all the wrong reasons ever since his in-famous mid-air fight with  , held a Facebook live chat with fans on Monday (July 10) evening. The comedian-actor accepted that he also misses his old team members and that he gets emotional thinking about them.
 
  Kapil, who had fainted on the sets of   last week, said he misses his team members hinting at Sunil Grover.
  
  "I too get emotional and this might be visible to you in my performance as well. I also miss them,"   told his fans in the live chat.
  
  For the uninitiated, the fight between Kapil and Sunil took place when they were returning after performing stage shows in Melbourne and Sydney. According to onlookers, Kapil under the influence of alcohol was using foul language in front of the ladies in an Air India flight, when Sunil tried to calm him down he started abusing and also hit him with a shoe.
  
  
 
  
  Reacting to all the reports, Kapil said he doesn't want to comment on whatever has been said about his fight with his team members. He said: "I dont care and I dont react".
  
  Kapil said he has met with Sunil Grover a few times after their fight and that Sunil is like his brother.
  
  "I have met him (Sunil Grover) a few times. He is like my brother and he can come back whenever he feels like," he said.
  
  The actor, who is busy shooting for his next Bollywood film Firangi, was also accused by many fans on the chat of not giving importance to his show because of his movie.
  
  Kapil laughed it off by saying that both are his own projects - he is producing the movie but it is the show that is giving him money so he will never neglect it.
  
  
 
  
  "Both (Kapil Sharma Show and Firangi) are my properties. From the show I get money and in the movie I have invested mine. It is important for me to take care of my show and if I refuse to shoot with SRK then it is my own loss," he said smilingly.
  
  The actor was speaking to his fans from the sets of his film Firangi and also informed that it was the last day of their shoot.
  
  He wrapped up the chat with a promise of returning for another one with all the members of his show soon.
  
  
 
  
  
  Talking about his frequent health worries, Kapil said he is now going to take care of himself.
  
  "I never realised that health if so important and I will take care of myself in future,"he said,
  
  Before signing off he thanked his fans for their immense love and promised to make them laugh even more with their gigs.
