LUCKNOW: The Congress released its third list of 29 candidates on Thursday, taking up its tally of candidates declared so far to 95. With a seat-sharing pact with the   on 105 seats, the party is now left with only 10 more seats on which to declare its nominees. 

 Even though the last date for filing nominations for the third phase passed on January 31, Congress also retrospectively announced the candidature of former MP Rajaram Pal from Maharajpur assembly seat in Kanpur. The names of Congress nominees Abdul Maroof Khan and Naresh Balmiki, who filed their nominations from Lucknow Central and Mohanlalganj, respectively, on January 31, following late night directions from UPCC president Raj Babbar and AICC general secretary in charge, Ghulam Nabi Azad, did not feature on Thursday’s list. 
 
 Crucial among the list of 29 on Thursday were five assembly constituencies from the Gandhi pocket boroughs of Amethi and Rae Bareli that have been at the centre of much debate and doubt. While local Congress leaders, led by INC’s campaign committee chairman Sanjay Sinh and ticket-seeker wife Amita, had demanded that the Congress field its candidates on all 10 assembly constituencies in Rae Bareli and Amethi, chief minister   had insisted on a 50-50 seat sharing formula between the alliance partners. When quizzed about the delay in declaration of candidates in Amethi and Rae Bareli, Rahul had described the matter as an “internal concern” that was at best “peripherial” to the alliance between the   and BSP. 
 
 Akhilesh’s Samajwadi Party had won 7 out of 10 assembly seats in the twin VIP districts. On Thursday, while Congress retained its incumbent MLA seats Tiloi and Jagdishpur in Amethi, fielding Vinod Mishra and Radhey Shyam from the two seats, it also earned two seats in Rae Bareli district, Sareni and Harchandpur, vacated by the SP to accommodate Congress nominees Ashok Singh and Rakesh Singh, respectively. Rae Bareli Sadar, which was won by Peace Party nominee Akhilesh Singh in 2012, is now being contested by his daughter Aditi, who has been fielded by the Congress. 
 
 A state of suspense remains over the remaining five seats, Amethi and Gauriganj in Amethi district, and Bachchrawan, Salon and Unchahar in Rae Bareli, each of which are currently held by the SP. The key sticking point, Amethi, held by incumbent SP minister Gayatri Prasad Prajapati also remains in limbo since Akhilesh has indicated his unwillingness to yield. During his maiden election campaign in Sultanpur this year, Akhilesh had even campaigned for Prajapati and referred to him as a “winning” candidate. The SP had already declared his candidature in its list in January, preparing the Gandhi turf for a battle between him and BJP’s ‘Rani’ Garima Sinh, Congress leader Sanjay Sinh’ first wife. 
 
 Among other names that featured on Congress’s third list are MLAs Laliteshpati Tripathi, Ajay Rai, Akhilesh Pratap Singh, Nadeem Javed, and Ajay Kumar Lallu. Former BSP MP Brijlal Khabri, who joined the Congress late last year has been fielded from the reserved Mehroni constituency in Bundelkhand, while UPCC vice president Rajesh Mishra has been fielded from Varanasi South. 
 
 The party has also fielded Youth Congress leader Tarun Patel from Gaura, a seat that was won by former SP minister Anand Singh. The INC had finished second on this seat. The INC has fielded former BSP leader Waris Ali from Nanpara in Bahraich. As a BSP candidate, Ali had lost to INC’s Madhuri Verma by just over 4000 votes in 2012. This time, while Verma has defected to BJP, Ali has crossed over to the Congress camp and remains a strong contender for the seat. 
 
