NEW DELHI: The Centre on Monday brushed aside Supreme Court’s prod to reopen a window to exchange banned currency notes. It said if a fresh window was opened, “any number of benami transactions and user proxies for the purpose of producing and depositing scrapped currency notes would then arise which the departments would have great difficulty in deciding any of the genuine case from the numerous bogus cases”.

 The government said in January 1978, the government had kept a six — day   window for citizens to deposit   in their possession despite low penetration of electronic media and absence of social media in disseminating information. “Seen in conjunction with the spread of media, present window of 51 days (from November 9 to December 30) was extremely reasonable,” it said.
 
 Referring to the SC’s poser for a one-time opportunity for those who missed the December 30 deadline, the finance ministry said, “After extensive deliberations, it was decided that any relaxation from what has already been allowed regarding deposit of scrapped bank notes based on the notifications issued as a result of the ordinance are not warranted.” It said the ordinance was since replaced with the Specified Bank Notes (Cessation of Liabilities) Act, 2017, which was notified on February 28 and none of the 10 petitioners had challenged it.
 
 On July 4, the   had told the Centre, “It is our duty to caution you. If a person is alone and suffered grave illness during the November 9 to December 30 period, it becomes absolutely impossible for him to deposit his old currency notes. If he can prove that it is his hard earned money and not somebody else’s, he would surely require the window you had promised. We ourselves (the bench) have rejected many petitions as we found their reasons not genuine. But those with genuine difficulty must have a chance to convince the authorities. If you do not agree to open a window, then we will say it is open for such persons who can prove genuineness of their money and difficulty to deposit within December 30 deadline to seek relief from the government. He should have an opportunity to explain and replace the old money. You cannot turn his genuine money into trash.”
 
