RANCHI: Apparels made of Jharkhand’s Tussar and   were a hit at the   in New Delhi on Wednesday night. 

 India’s top fashion designers Reena Dhaka, Shaina NC, Shruti Sancheti, Divya and Ambika Jain used the silk produced in Jharkhand to come up with exquisite saree and kurta collection.
 
 The collection showcased at the fashion show was also put on display at the Jharcraft stall at the event which received a high footfall. “The collections have been appreciated by both the masses as well as the more discerning audience,” Kumar said. 
 
 The fashion week, which began at 8:30pm and in which Jharkhand is a partner state, was attended by Union textile minister  . She visited the Jharcraft pavilion and appreciated the products. Irani also discussed the initiatives being undertaken to help artisans of Jharkhand to achieve better market access and improve their livelihood.
 
 Jharcraft managing director K Ravi Kumar said, “The minister appreciated the products. On Thursday, the second day of the fashion week, many visitors came to our pavilion and appreciated the product and the quality of the silk. We are hoping to get a good market here.”
 
 India is the second largest producer of tussar silk in the world while Jharkhand has emerged as the largest producer of Tussar in the country.
 
 The silk is reared mostly by the tribal population of the state. Kumar said, “In its quest to improve the sources of livelihood for these artisans, Jharcraft works to promote their work and take it to national and international platforms.”
 
 He added, “These silks are a deep manifestation of the tribal art and craft of the region and reflect the well-springs of creativity endowed with the ethnic communities of Jharkhand. Recognising it as a source of income, the artisans of the state have in recent years further cultivated and enhanced their skills as well as variety of products.”
 
 Kumar said that by associating with such an event and showcasing tussar silk and garments made of other handlooms of Jharkhand, Jharcraft aims to take the fabric and handloom to international market.
 
 Jharcraft has collaborated with Designing Council of India (FDCI) to promote the work of artisans and craftspersons of the state. "If all goes fine our products will go International and the artisans would get more work and earn more in the coming days," Kumar said.
 
 
