KOLKATA: Caught unawares by the Trinamool agitation in New  , the central   has decided to rope in seven officers, well-versed in  , to keep tabs on the party.

 The decision comes after the January 6 incident in which Trinamool MPs and their supporters, on the second day of their three-day agitation, reportedly managed to breach two rings of security barricades on Raisina Hills towards South Block and moved close to the high-security zone of the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). The PMO has a seven-tier security cordon with section 144 of CrPC clamped around it. Following the reported breach of security, about 30 MPs were taken into custody at the Mandir Marg police station, only to be released three hours later. The damage, however, was done.
 
 The ministry of home affairs, sources claimed, was taken by surprise and sought a report from the IB. In the 24-page report sent to MHA, the IB pointed to a few glaring lacunae it its Trinamool desk. Primary among them was the absence of officers who could understand Bengali. “With most officers being non-Bengali, the inability to glean information from the sources in the state is a handicap. Documents, media reports, assessment by analysts and primary communication intercepts are all in Bengali. It is increasingly becoming difficult for these officers to analyze and report on them,” a source said.
 
 The language gap was also apparently a major impediment towards building a network. “They have to rely on their state counterparts or sources in Kolkata or Bengal police. These people are clueless on Delhi development. This is creating an information gap,” the report said.
 
 The MHA has now instructed to set up a core group, with at least seven officers, who apart from collecting information will liaison with state-level officers and insiders. Ironically, the Centre is likely to write to the state to send more officers to make up for the Delhi shortfall, continuing for six years. “Every state sends a batch of police officers on a one-year deputation to the Centre. They work as liaison officers. This worked as a strong pipeline in sourcing state level information. From Bengal, 50 officers were sent to Delhi every year. From 2009, the state started to send fewer officers and from 2011, it stopped completely,” a state home department official said. 
 
 
