BHOPAL: The idea of giving up   doesn’t seem to suit BJP ministers in Madhya Pradesh, as minister of state (MoS) for cooperatives Vishwas Sarang said the Congress government in Punjab is focusing on trivial issues to garner cheap publicity instead of focusing on  .

 The BJP leader’s remarks came in the backdrop of Punjab cabinet deciding against the use of red beacons and reports of Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath contemplating the same. On Monday, Union minister Uma Bharti had said that use of red beacons by ministers was acceptable while discharging their duties. “If any minister is on duty then red beacon and stopping traffic is justified. Even a flight can get delayed by five to seven minutes. But, in case of a personal visit, traffic should not be stopped,” Bharti had said.
 
 However, Sarang shares the opinion of other ministers of   cabinet who are in no way willing to give up their red beacons. He said it was irrelevant to discuss such matters as other issues related to public welfare are more significant. Sarang also hit out at Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh for living a luxurious lifestyle while talking about simplicity. “The idea of Captain Amarinder Singh is to garner cheap publicity. Deciding that ministers would not use red beacons is easy, but he himself should give up his palatial bungalow and royal lifestyle to do away with VIP culture,” said Sarang while talking to reporters in the state assembly on Tuesday.
 
 Reacting to the idea, state forest minister  , power minister Paras Jain and panchayat minister Gopal Bhargava said giving up red beacon is a collective decision and if necessary, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan could take a final call on the issue.
 
 In Madhya Pradesh, it seems difficult for the chief minister to decide on giving up red beacon at a time when the government has removed more than 12 boards and corporations from the list of office of profit and most of the civic body heads are striving for a beacon, observed a senior MLA in the assembly.
 
