PUNE: The office of Devendra Fadnavis has said that it does not have any details on the utilisation of the Chief Minister’s   prior to 2012 as all the files were destroyed in a fire at the mantralaya in June 2012.

 In   to activist Anil Galgali’s   application, the Chief Minister’s office stated that it can provide details of fund utilisation post 2012 as “all the documents prior to 2012 have been destroyed in a fire.’’ The activist had sought details from 2005 onwards. The Chief Minister’s Relief Fund had come under scrutiny several times for not declaring how it has been utilised.
 
  told   that he had asked for information from January 1, 2005, onwards to date. “The Chief Minister’s office informed me that all documents prior to 2012 have been destroyed. It said it would be able to share information from June 2012 to March this year. The officials also said audit was not carried out on the funds utilised earlier,’’ he said.
 
 It is after the mantralaya fire that the government officials decided to start e-office to save all the data not just in files but on computers and upload the same on the Net as well. IT department officials had made a detailed presentation on how all the files post the fire should be saved online. “We have developed a mechanism which will make various departments paperless as well as ensure that data is not lost in case of a calamity,’’ stated senior officials.
 
 Praveensinh Pardeshi, principal secretary to the Maharashtra Chief Minister’s office, told TOI that after the fire, all the departments at the secretariat have been scanning the files and uploading the same. “We have been able to scan and save all the files in two different systems. A disaster recovery system is in place, which will enable us to retrieve the data. The saving of the data twice will ensure that no files are lost due to any kind of disaster,’’ he said.
 
 From 2012 onwards, according to the RTI, the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund has deposits to the tune of Rs 574.57 crore. “The last 58 months have seen 22,633 beneficiaries under the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund, which has incurred an expense of Rs 242.53 crore,’’stated Galgali.
 
 The report also stated that the office had rejected 3161 applications for Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. The deposits for the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund are in eight banks and the amount earns an interest of Rs 41.63 crore, stated the reply to the RTI filed by Galgali. The RTI stated that the funds had been spent for medical purposes followed by accidental deaths, fire, natural calamity and organ transplants.
 
 The Chief Minister’s Relief Fund is meant to provide help to persons affected by natural calamities but activists had alleged that the funds were being diverted to purposes other than natural calamities. NGOs had even gone to court. Galgali stated that the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund allocation should be made online for more transparency.
 
