Did you know, Hyderabad was a walled city like Delhi with 13 gates and seven windows. Now, the city has only two gates and its rich heritage legacy lost and its architectural splendor crumbling. TOI launches a campaign to reclaim its glory and catapult it to the league of  

 Hyderabad needs to learn a lot from Ahmedabad, India's first and only world heritage city , on conservation of heritage structures, scientific upkeep of monuments and protection of pre-historic sites from vandalism. The city , which was once a repository of at least 2000 heritage structures, has just 140 of them still standing.
 
 While the   is keen on securing the heritage tag for Hyderabad, the 400-year-old historic city may not bag a world heritage status at least in the next few decades. In fact, the state government has proposed to pull down a few heritage structures on the pretext these are dilapidated.
 
 Heritage activists say , Hyderabad has to go a long way to come anywhere closer to claiming the world heritage city status. It should first secure world heritage tag for at least a couple of monuments, before competing for the world heritage status for the city.
 
 Everything in Hyderabad   , culture, heritage, arts, crafts, cuisine and language is lost in the cobwebs of time. Most monuments have been pulled down and those surviving are either encroached upon or marked for demolition. Its historic water bodies are polluted and brimming with drug-resistant bacteria. Even prehistoric sites dating back to Neolithic age are not free from illegal occupation.
 
 “We need an attitude change. We have disregard for our monuments. Hyderabad is culturally richer than many cities.It had its own army , postage, coins and currency , modes of transport, cuisine, textiles, attires, culture and traditions.Its style of architecture is unique. We simply failed to understand them. No wonder, we have lost most of the monuments,“ regrets city historian Dr  .
 
 It will take about two decades for Hyderabad to claim the world heritage city status if authorities take up conservation as a mission. The government should remove all encroachments, give a massive face-lift to heritage structures, clean and protect water bodies, and create a sense of belonging and love for Hyderabadi arts, culture, heritage and cuisine in the young generation.
 
 Many structures of   are in dilapidation. The does not have a scientific listing of heritage monuments. Also, there is need for introduction of Hyderabad history and culture in school and college curriculum.
 
