They say   maketh a full man. However, with the advent of technology and a plethora of distractions all around, the habit of reading gradually seems to have come down.  , an ardent lover of books, didn’t want to sit back and be a mere observer of the development. He decided to do his bit to inculcate the habit of reading among people. An engineer by profession, who works at a private firm in Sulur, Seethapathi now takes out time to deliver books to readers at their doorstep. And once they finish reading, Seethapathi collects it back from their houses.

 “I had noticed how books had transformed the lives of many and how they had even shaped personalities of people. But, today’s generation seems quite detached from books. It’s disheartening to see that though there are plenty of libraries in the city, not many go there. So, I decided to deliver books at people’s door step, especially to those who cannot afford to buy some of these books. The moment I made the decision (in May 2016), I took out all the books I had bought over the years and set up a mini library at my house with just 150 books. I started delivering books to my friends and neighbours in PattanamPudur after work. Word spread and I began receiving calls from readers from places like Kovai Pudur and Ganapathy as well. Some of them even donated their books to my mini library and asked me to circulate among readers. Today, my collection comprises more than 800 books,” says Seethapathi.
 
 Seethapathi’s collection includes popular works in Tamil and English. “It’s easy for me to source books in these languages as I am familiar with the works. I have a collection of biographies, fiction, non-fiction and even children’s books. I have been receiving many requests for Malayalam classics as well. I am not familiar with Malayalam literature and I am looking forward to someone, who is an ardent reader of Malayalam works to upgrade my collection and cater to Malayalam readers."
 
 Seethapathi invests around Rs 2,500 every month to update his collection. He charges a nominal cost of Rs 2 per day, once the book is delivered. “When you deliver it for free, people do not understand the seriousness of your efforts. Hence, the nominal sum. I regularly visit old book stores, book fairs and I am in touch with few publishers as well. Every time I tell publishers about my lending library, they are puzzled about how I sustain as I don’t get any monetary benefit out of this. Sometimes, I have to commute long distances just to deliver a book. Now, I have created a Whatsapp group where I post about the updates in my collection. So, when I am about to collect my book back, I deliver them a new one. This way, I save a trip to distant localities. ”
 
 At home, Seethapathi has created a manual ledger, in which he keeps track of the books. “At the outset, I wanted to allocate a place in my house for people to read. But, I realized that people needed their privacy with their books. That’s how I started delivering them. When you deliver it personally, you create an inimitable bond with the readers. They have now started giving me reviews of the book as well. Sometimes, they ask me to help them buy few books.”
 
 Seethapathi adds that through his initiative he is able to reach out to many, who cannot afford to buy certain books. “For instance, if you want to read the entire series of the Tamil classic Ponniyin Selvan, you need to shell out at least a minimum of Rs 500. But, when they approach me, they get read it at a minimal cost. Though many prefer reading on kindle today, there is still a section of people, who rely on good old paperbacks. The best part about the initiative is that I too get to read many books even as I help the current generation pick up the habit of reading.” 
 
 Seethapathi’s initiative was captured in a short film that was recently shortlisted for a National level Short film Competition for Social Cause, which involves churning out short films in 101 hours as part of the ‘Yes I am the Change social film-making challenge’.
 
 
