PUNE: Schools will have to declare tentative fee structures for up to five years while admitting new students at the entry level from the next academic year, state education minister   said here on Friday.

 Several parents in Pune and Mumbai had made a number of complaints against the exorbitant fee hike by schools, he told the media on the sidelines of an event.
 
 According to the minister, a stricter provision in the fee regulation act besides withdrawing the no-objection certificate of non-state board schools would soon be resolved so as to ensure CBSE, ICSE and other non-state board schools do not violate rules about fee hike. The move is also expected to ensure that such educational institutes do not make it compulsory to buy stationery from schools.
 
 About 15-20 parents confronted   about the state government’s move regarding the fee hike issue. Parents alleged that the minister was only making announcements while no real action was taken against schools that hike fees violating the regulation act.
 
 Prajakta Petkar, a parent, led the protest on Friday and raised the issues concerning schools. Tawde then held a 30-minute meeting with the parents and stated that complaints would be heard in Mumbai on May 14.
 
 Tawde said, “We are receiving maximum complaints against private schools affiliated with non-state boards. The only action we can take against them for flouting rules is to withdraw the institution’s NOC. However, if we do that, students would suffer and we will have to make alternative arrangements for them, which is an impossible task.”
 
 The minister agreed that the fee hike issue was observed across Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur and, despite being registered with the charity commissioner, schools were earning up to 300% as profits. Schools may charge for facilities provided but they should inform parents about it in advance, said Tawde. 
 
 “If a school plans to start a film-making club in the coming years, they should declare the same as well as the tentative fee to be charged for it. At the time of giving admission to students, they will have to be told the fees for the next five years so that parents would have an idea of the fee structure and will take a decision accordingly,” he said.
 
 Tawde to hear complaints regarding 18 city schools
 
 When parents gheraoed the education minister, Tawde announced that a hearing will be arranged soon. Representatives of the said school as well as education officials would meet and discuss the fee hike. On Monday, seven schools would be called for a hearing, while remaining schools would be met soon. 
 
 Search panel to submit names for VC’s post.
 
 Tawde confirmed that the search panel, headed by eminent scientist Anil Kakodkar, is to meet governor   on Friday to submit five names for the vice-chancellor’s post at  . He made an assurance that the announcement would be done before May 15. On May 10 and 11, the search panel interviewed 32 applicants and five names were submitted to the governor, who will interview the shortlisted applicants.
 
 Addressing complaints regarding schools making it compulsory to buy stationery from the institutes, Tawde said that it wasn’t possible for the government to ask non-state board schools to distribute books free-of-cost as is the case with state board schools. 
 
