Male classical dancers often face discrimination, thanks to stereotypical notions of masculinity and gender roles. A recent festival in the city tried to address some of these issues This is a free country. Why, then, can’t men dance? Why can’t they tie ghungroos to their feet and kick up a beat to match those of the tabla? Why do several members of the audience inevitably smirk the moment a male dancer gets on stage? How much of this is to do with sexual politics and notions of gender roles?  These — some of the most troubling issues in the world of male dancers today, especially in Indian classical dance forms — were just some of the questions tackled head-on at the recently organized Purush Festival in the city. The rhetoric was one of gender inequality, with the scales heavily tilted, but in favour of women in this case. What came to the fore is a curious reversal of gender discrimination, where the male dancer leads a second-class existence, never mind his talent. Purush Festivals to promote male classical dancing have become quite popular in south India, but this was a first in the eastern region. Dancers from across the country converged on Gyan Manch, along with dance academicians from universities, to discuss their problems. Most male dancers felt objectification of the performer on stage was a reality in classical dance. “A female dancer has better grace and form, males are just caricatures… this is the message conveyed to you through eye contact. You flinch inwardly but keep your chin up and immerse yourself in dance,” Bharatanatyam exponent Sajilal Narayanan tried to sum up. One of the better known contemporary scholars and faculty of Kalakshetra, he has also been sent by the ICCR to showcase his art form in other countries. Narayanan has been invited by the Indian embassy in Myanmar as a dancer-in-residence there. “I think the situation is a bit different down south, where classical dance is still taken seriously,” he said. “And though the number of boys taking up classical dancing as a career is far less today, compared with three-four decades back, parents are more willing to accept that their boy will not be a doctor or an engineer but a dancer. In north India, the problem is acute and the moment a boy shows affinity towards classical dance, he starts getting harassed by the ‘queer’ tag.” It is strange that despite such social stigma, India has seen such greats like Gopi Krishna, Birju Maharaj and Kelucharan Mahapatra — masters of their art, who have often been equated with Shiva, the lord of dance himself. “Yes, you have the greats. But do you realise that they do not have a next wave of dancers? And that is because society is not willing to make space for male dancers the way it is accepting female dancers with open arms,” argued Vasanth Kiran, a leading Bharatanatyam exponent from Bengaluru.  Whether Ram Gopal or Uday Shankar, the first international impressions about Indian dance came from the male dancer. They were India’s answers to the likes of Vaslav Nijinsky, Ted Shawn and Diaghilev. Forms like Kathakali were the exclusive domain of men; Kuchipudi was initially taught and performed only by men. Gotipua dancers in Odisha were young boys and Odissi emerged in its present avatar due to the untiring efforts of dancer-gurus like the late Kelucharan Mohapatra and Debaprasad Das. In the early 20th century, most well-known names in Bharatanatyam were male, and they helped design the modern format of proscenium Bharatanatyam. Veterans like Meenakshisundaram Pillai, Dandayudhapani Pillai, Muthuswamy Pillai and Vazhuvoor Ramaiah Pillai helped Bharatanatyam travel outside the confines of the traditional Devadasi families. Some of these gurus contributed significantly to dance becoming a vital element in cinema, with Ramaiah Pillai being the first guru to be credited as a choreographer. The reconstruction of dance forms happened over the 19th and 20th centuries, also the time when stereotypes of masculinity and femininity were created in the Indian society’s psyche following Western patterns. “Unfortunately, most people who come to an auditorium for a recital want to be entertained by graceful bodily movements of beautiful women dancers,” Kiran pointed out. “They are untrained viewers and cannot understand the logic behind a male dancer showing the lasya on stage and the necessity for it.” He recounted how horrified his parents were when he wanted to dance, because they wanted him to be an MBA. “So I decided to pay them back in their own coin. I continued to dance on the side but took up science and then did my MBA from Marshall University, West Virginia. It was only afterwards that I took to full-time dancing, but am still a visiting faculty in several B schools, including the IIMs, where I teach business marketing. Now that is considered masculine enough, and people have stopped questioning my sexuality when I dance,” he laughed. The dancers pointed out that the grace they portray on stage is often misinterpreted; society selectively forgets that the peacock is more graceful than the peahen, and that Indian classical dance is ruled by Nataraj and Krishna imagery. They complained about lack of state support to male dancing. The fact that the culture ministry does not even know the number of dance graduates and that there is no federation or committee that can look after the interests of dancers came up for discussion. Male dancers rued how they are often made to give donations to the sabhas or associations that organise recitals to stage performances and bear the expense of the accompaniment, just to keep themselves in circulation. “Dance gendering is a real problem, and male dancers are victims. Let’s admit that first before we look for solutions,” said dancer and Visva-Bharati University faculty, Sruti Bandyopadhyay. “The audience needs to be made aware that classical dance transcends external body lines. Dance transcends gender and a great sexual leveller. You may be heterosexual or homosexual, but that should not manifest itself in your dance. Both the audience and the dancer need to unitedly accept this truth before any performance starts.” A comment from dancer Samrat Dutta shocked everyone. “Day in and day out, people have commented, ‘O ki byatachhele? Or naach dekhe ki hobe? (Is he a man? Why should we watch him dancing?)’ So, you can understand the tragedy I have to live with just because I have chosen dance as my profession.” Kaushiki Bandyopadhyay, a former organiser of the state-sponsored Uday Shankar Dance Festival, agreed. She said the image of Brihannala has always loomed large in the mind of the audience every time a male dancer performs. “That is where we need awareness, which is totally lacking,” she pointed out. Kathak exponent Anurekha Ghosh and Sangeet Natak Academy awardee Sharmila Biswas (Odissi) felt the fault often lies in the gurus who teach their male students posture and stance. “No one should say you shouldn’t have grace or that you cannot enact a female character. In fact, that is the very essence of classical dancing. But that grace should be masculine. The body line should be rigid and the mudras firm — quite removed from how a woman would showcase her movements,” Biswas explained. In a typical dance class, since there are more women than men, the tendency of the young boy would be to emulate his women friends, even in their body movements. The guru should be vigilant and correct the male dancer all the time. The legendary Rukmini Devi Arundale of Kalakshetra had campaigned about this all her life. “It was she who insisted that male dancers should dance as males and dance vigorously. The same dance, when performed by a woman, should look quite different when performed by a man,” said Kush Kushari, a city-based Bharatanatyam exponent who has been doing a lot of activism about male dancing through his organisation Drishtinandan, which organized the festival here.