Gurgaon: To improve solid waste management in the city, Haryana State Pollution Control Board ( ) has asked   to introduce   on roads. 

 The pollution board has also suggested three colours for dustbins — green for biodegradable waste; black for e-waste; and blue for plastic and metal waste.
 
 “We have written to the MCG to install different colour-coded dustbins. As kitchen waste forms the maximum part of the household waste in the city, the segregation of the waste can help in recycling the waste,” said an HSPCB official. 
 
 “However, it’s not just the corporation that needs to support the initiative, people would also have to be supportive as we all want to live in a  . Our job does not end only by keeping our houses clean and throwing the   away. Waste management is everybody’s responsibility,” he added.
 
 According to an estimate, 40% of municipal waste in the city is wet waste, which can easily be composted and used as manure. Nearly 30% of the municipal waste comprises of plastic and metal, which can be sent recycling to an authorised dealer and about 20% of it is e-waste, which can also be recycled.
 
 As per Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, “every waste generator needs to segregate and store the waste generated by them in three separate streams namely bio-degradable, non-degradable and domestic hazardous wastes in suitable bins and handover segregated wastes to authorised rag-pickers or waste collectors”.
 
 Meanwhile, the activists have demanded that people should be educated about the need of colour-coded waste segregation. “To make such drive a success, there is a need to educate people too. Simply installing coloured dustbins is not going to serve the purpose. We can do this with help of pictorial presentations in a few sessions with RWAs and give them the responsibility of waste segregation,” said Sanjay Kaushik, president, Uthaan, a city-based NGO working for the cause of environment.
 
 “We are already working on the project to install different kinds of dustbins. It will soon be implemented in some parts of the city in the first phase,” said an MCG official, who did not wish to be named.
 
 
