BHOPAL: Faced with criticism and multiple petitions in the   (NGT) over illegal   from Narmada river, Madhya Pradesh government on Monday imposed a total ban on sand mining in the holy river across the state. 

 The move come just after the culmination of the 5-month Narmada Seva Yatra undertaken by Shivraj Singh Chouhan government to clean and conserve Narmada— the lifeline of the state. At the concluding function of the yatra Prime Minister Narendra Modi too had expressed concern over pollution in Narmada and called for its conservation.
 
 Besides, the government has banned the use of machines for excavating sand from all rivers across the state. District collectors have been directed to seize all vehicles and machines used in illegal mining.
 
 “The move is aimed to save Narmada and a notification will be issued today,” said chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan in a hurriedly called press conference at the state secretariat.
 
 Much to the embarrassment of the state government, senior BJP leader and former revenue minister Kamal Patel had recently lodged a complaint with NGT, central zone bench, Bhopal against illegal sand mining in four districts including Sehore, the home district of chief minister Chouhan.
 
 Taking a note on illegal mining and severe damage to the river and environment, chief minister Chouhan said the government has already instructed the district collectors to confiscate all machinery and trucks used in illegal sand mining.
 
 “Anyone found excavating sand from the banks of Narmada will face legal action,” said Chouhan.
 
 The chief minister further said the government will form a committee under the supervision of state industries minister Rajendra Shukla and experts from IIT Kharagpur will be involved to suggest next action to conserve the river.
 
 “The committee headed by Shukla will study the feasibility of mining in river Narmada and would suggest when and where it would be safe to excavate sand from the riverbed without harming the environment. We have decided to completely ban mining in the Narmada river till this committee submits its report which might take four to six months,” said the chief minister. 
 
 When asked whether the move to ban mining would lead to a shortage of sand for construction industry, Chouhan said the government has not banned sand mining from other rivers. However, machines could not be used for mining. The government is also seeking an alternative for the manufacturing of sand through stones.
 
 “We will encourage companies who can manufacture sand by crushing stones and waive the royalty for three years. We have given living entity status to the holy river Narmada and the sole objective of the exercise is to prevent ecological damage to the river and strike a balance between the environment and the development'', said Chouhan.
 
 Chief minister also assured that the government would provide alternate sources of employment to the workers who would lose their job in the mining companies after ban on sand mining in river Narmada.
 
 “We will provide them with options in MNREGS and other works so as to help them earn their livelihood without any problem,” said Chouhan
 
