 The state government is working for the infrastructure development to provide space to prospective investors in information technology (IT) and electronics manufacturing sectors under its IT/ITes Investment Promotion Vision and Electronics System Design and Manufacturing Vision, deputy CM   said while inaugurating the two-day IT investors’   at Birla Institute of Technology-Mesra, Patna, on Wednesday. The conclave is organized by the state government in association with the Confederation of Indian Industry ( ) and KPMG.
 
  Bihar is one of the fastest growing state economies in the country with a projected CAGR of 13.4% during the 12th Five-Year Plan (2012-17). Modi said the state has undertaken a slew of infrastructural, economic and business climate reforms for fostering investments. “With vision statements that are industry-friendly and curated towards creating transparent governance, the state government has created an enabling environment for investments in Bihar with a special focus on the IT & ITeS sector,” he said.
  
  The deputy CM said the government was working in a focused manner to make Bihar an IT hub on the global investment map. “The youths know how to solve the problem in a constructive manner. They believe in creating jobs for others through their startup plans. We invite more youngsters to come forward and solve the real-time problems we encounter every day. Such initiatives, which are designed in a fun format, appeal to the millennial generation. It also demands a blend of creativity and technical skills to solve challenges and, therefore, is a showcase of their ideas,” he said.
  
  “This is the first of the many such events the state government has lined up. We are delighted that it has been well received by the participants who have come from across India. We will give a platform to Bihar youths so that they won’t be forced to leave the state. From this year onwards, the government will organize this event every year,” said Modi, who is also the minister of the state’s IT department.
  
  The event seeks to provide students of elite institutions with a platform to brainstorm and solve real-time problems being faced by various departments. Over 110 teams, including IITs and IIMs, participated in the event. They were given topics to develop programmes on traffic congestion reduction, easy navigation system for blind persons, electronic personal safety system, use of housing data to reduce real estate market inefficiencies, data science and climate change, real-time earthquake prediction and tracking of location wise financial transactions and digital technologies for monitoring water quality management in water supply network at district level.
  
  CII state council chairman P K Sinha, KPMG (India) director Brijendra Kumar, BIT-Mesra Patna director Dr Bijay Kumar Singh, additional secretary of IT department Manish Kumar, Beltron general manager   and other senior state government officials and industry leaders were also present.
