NAGPUR: A six-month-old leopard cub, which had been brought to   from   for treatment, escaped on the night of January 2, causing a flutter among officials.

 The male cub had been rescued on December 23 from a nullah near a farm outside   in Hingni range. A joint operation had been launched by foresters and volunteers of People for Animals (PFA) after the cub’s mother abandoned the weak cub.
 
 The cub was first treated by veterinarians Dr Sandeep Joge and Dr Avinash Brahmankar at the rescue centre run by PFA leader Ashish Goswami at Pipri near Wardha. “On December 27, the cub was handed over to Gorewada for better care. It was unable to hunt,” said Hingni RFO PM Wade, who was not aware that the cub has escaped.
 
 With good treatment and big space in the cage at Gorewada rescue centre, the cub had recovered fast. It was consuming 2kg meat daily. On January 3, when the rescue centre staff went to feed the cub, it was missing. It is suspected that being small in size, the cub might have found its way out from a small gap between two steel bars.
 
 It is also suspected that the cub might have escaped with some leopards in the wild, which frequent the cages in the night. In February, a wild leopard had killed a deer kept in a cage for treatment.
 
 After noticing that the cub was missing, Gorewada officials started a massive hunt in the nearby forest, since there are residential localities near the forest. Sources said the cub is being tracked in the forest near a water body, nullahs and near its habitat.
 
 Sources said, it appears from the pugmarks that the cub is moving with another female leopard. However, unless camera traps are installed it is difficult to know whether it is the same cub.
 
 Well-known wildlife biologist and leopard expert Vidya Athreya said, “It is unlikely that a leopardess will accept another cub. Even in cats they don’t do it.”
 
 A section of wildlife experts fear that a male leopard, which is also present in Gorewada forest, may kill the cub.
 
 The forest officials have kept the cub’s cage open and are keeping chicken there with the hope that it will come back. Earlier, a leopard had been kept in the same cage for 10 months but nothing untoward had happened.
 
 The cub brought from Hingni was the 15th leopard at the rescue centre. Currently there are 14 problem leopards in Gorewada. Of these, seven were brought from Chandrapur, two from Wadali in Amravati and five from Junnar in Western Maharashtra.
 
 
