Hyderabad: Riding the ‘Baahubali’ mania, US-based chipmaker AMD (that has its India R&D centre in Hyderabad) is all set to take its virtual reality (VR) experience to a new cinematic high. 

 AMD, that released a VR experience video -- ‘On The Sets of Baahubali’ (which gives the viewer a virtual tour of the   sets) -- in October last year, is now gearing up to showcase the audio preview of Baahubali 2 that is slated for Sunday in Ramoji city. For the uninitiated, VR is about using computer technology to create an environment that is as good as the real thing. “AMD is broadcasting the audio preview in VR in a 360 degree video so that anybody with a regular phone and Google cardboard or a VR gear or a regular PC will be able to feel like they are there at the event. We believe that this will be the most viewed VR event ever in the world,” Chris Hook, senior director, global marketing and public relations, Radeon Technologies Group at AMD, said.
 
 Till date, the most viewed VR events globally have attracted anywhere between 5-10 million eyeballs but all these events have been pre-recorded ones, whereas in the case of ‘Baahubali’, it will be a live one. “In the case of Baahubali, we are expecting phenomenal interest from around the world. Hyderabad is defining the way technology can be used to engage with cinema audiences even outside the theatres,” he added.
 
 Apart from streaming the Baahubali audio launch live using VR technology, the company will also be partnering with Arka Mediaworks to set up around 50 VR experience booths at cinema theatres, malls and IT parks in the country, where viewers can get an interactive experience of 3D animated scenes from ‘Baahubali-2’. These booths will be set up after the release of the movie and the duration of these VR clips will be around 5-6 minutes.
 
 As AMD implements its advanced VR solutions for ‘Baahubali-2’, it sees a huge potential of application of VR technologies in sectors such as real estate, architecture and education, among others.
 
 
