NASHIK: Two more farmers, including a 25-year graduate in agriculture, have committed suicide in the district since Saturday. With this, the total number of such cases has risen to 16 so far this year as against 10 in the corresponding period last year. 

 The graduate,   (Jadhav), hailed from Dindori taluka and the other victim, Narayan Bagul (55) was from Kalwan taluka. Both these talukas are tribal dominated.
 
 District administration sources said Chetan was a resident of Awankhed village on the Nashik Dindori road. He had done his graduation through   (YCMOU).
 
 “The body of the youth was found in the grape farm owned by his father in the wee hours of Monday. We got a feedback that he consumed poison on Sunday night,” an official of the revenue department said on Monday. 
 
 The youth’s family members spotted the body while they were searching for him, the official said.
 
 Chetan is survived by parents and younger brother and sister.
 
 The official quoted local villagers as saying that the victim’s father had planted grapes with an intention to export them. Although the production was good, the yield did not fetch the expected price. “The victim was worried about it. We have sought a detailed report on his death,” the official added.
 
 Bagul, a resident of Dhekale village in Kalwan, was missing for the last three days and his family members had also alerted the police about it.
 
 The revenue official said the farmer’s body was found floating in an abandoned well on Sunday evening. It is believed that he had jumped into the well on Saturday. 
 
 “Bagul’s family members said the deceased had left behind a note, in which he blamed the falling market prices for agriculture produce that forced him to end his life,” the official said.
 
 Recently, the Nashik district administration came to the conclusion that of the nine farmers who had committed suicide, six were due to agricultural reasons.
 
 Keeping this in mind, the district panel, led by the district collector, Radhakrishnan B went through reports and conducted enquiries into suicides by the nine farmers.
 
 The panel admitted that of nine farmers, six committed suicide due to reasons like failed crop and debt recovery notices by bankers.
 
 The panel rejected any kind of government compensation to the other three farmers as they ended their lives due to personal reasons.
 
