NAGPUR:  , an 11-year-old girl, wouldn’t mix with her schoolmates until last year. She was always aloof due to a physical disability. She didn’t have her left hand that made her feel others won’t accept her.

 When she got an artificial limb, a LN-4 prosthetic hand, she has almost become a brand ambassador of the limb company and can be seen convincing others about the difference the limb has made to her life. “I was very introvert. Lacked confidence. Though I am still not able to perform all functions of a hand, the artificial limb has given me unusual confidence. I got my artificial limb through Rotary Club of Nagpur (Mihan Town) and now I pray that everyone who needs one should get it and experience the change in their life. Since Rotary gives it free, cost is not a factor,” Gauri told TOI.
 
 Gauri lives in village Mohgaon (Dhole) in Hingna taluka, a village adopted by the Mihan Town club. “We came to know about free limb fixing through   and   of Rotary Club of Indore Uptown that was holding a camp in Jalgaon. We took Gauri there merely to help her. But the changed Gauri motivated us to take this up as a project and help as many persons as possible,”  , president of the Club.
 
 Gauri said,” I am very happy and want to be a doctor.” Her father Shankar and mother Chanda said, “We are very happy for her.”
 
 On February 5, the club has thus organized a limb fixing camp at BRA Mundle School opposite ITI on South Ambazari road between 9am to 2pm. Fifteen Rotarians trained in the technique will coming from Indore for the camp. Project coordinators Ajay Daga and   admit the limb, which is imported from California, doesn’t completely restore the normal functions of a hand. “But it does allow a person to perform 50-60% of routine functions. Since it is a removable hand it is handy to remove it at night,” said Daga.
 
 The club has already selected 300 individuals for limb fixing on Sunday. “We want reach the message to as many as people as possible. We are very excited about the project. We have already reached these 300 through word of mouth and social media. The limbs are free of cost and camp too has no registration,” said Thakkar.
 
 Those interested can contact on Thakkar on Phone 9823178694, Daga on 9545471117 or Gaddanwar on 8600199111.
 
