NAGPUR: Imagine if you can track the desired Starbus through your cellphone, and if buses are not available, may be you could share your ride in someone’s  . Innovative and budding engineers are making it possible and developing such model-based projects which are fit for a  .

 On Friday, national level project competition ‘Innovesta-2017’ was organized by the civil engineering department of  , Nagpur (PIGCE), to provide a platform to the students to display their skills. They realised the real life problems of people and came up with constructive ideas to solve them through collective efforts.
 
 Over 700 engineering and polytechnic students from across the region participated in the fest. Besides, PIGCE also conducted a project exhibition ‘Technomission 2017’ for its students exclusively.
 
 Arvind Kumar, deputy centre head at  , was the chief guest of the event. Kumar said, “This is my third visit here and undeniably the level of maturity among students is increasing with every passing year. I see bright future for them in our sector as IT is all about ideas, creativity and young dynamic energy.”
 
 Principal RV Kshirsagar wished to present this exhibition as an academic social responsibility. He said, “Children become aware about issues faced by mankind and use their brains productively. Such opportunities give them a chance to enhance their imagination. They get recognized by professionals which boosts their confidence.”
 
 Convener PA Godse, co-convener Rucha Moharir, dean (academics) VP Kesalkar, coordinator of Technomission Nilesh Shelker and R&D coordinator RS Khokale were present during the inaugural ceremony.
 
 ‘Hodapool’ was the brainchild of Kundan Kumar and his friends, which allowed real time ride-sharing. By utilizing empty seats in most passenger cars, the fuel usage and transportation cost can be cut down. Kundan said, “By registering in the app, you can offer a ride to others and your location can be tracked. This way, we can serve the areas which are not covered by public transit system.”
 
 Shakeeb Ahmed and his friends, studying computer science, developed a software which would analyse the comments posted on social media and reveal if it is positive, negative or neutral. He said, “We don’t have to read every comment manually. We can understand the emotion behind the text with just one click. This definitely eases the task and we have named it ‘Opinion Mining’.”
 
 Student president Ritu Raj said, “Being an integral part of the organizing committee, my managerial skills are being groomed. It is a learning experience which will be fruitful when we walk in the corporate world or become entrepreneurs.”
 
 Mayur Umale and his project members from the electrical stream created a smart vehicle for the smart city. They modified a bicycle and made it run on batteries. This intensified the speed and reduced the time for travelling.
 
