NOIDA:  ,   and   are likely to adopt better   measures as a draft proposal to suggest amendments in the building bylaws of the three development authorites has been given to a high-power committee. On Monday, CEO of Noida & Greater Noida authorities, Deepak Agarwal, held a meeting with the joint director, fire services, P K Rao to discuss fire safety in highrise buildings. The move came after a meeting held by Rama Raman, principal secretary, industries, who also holds the post of chairperson, Noida Authority, in Lucknow last month.

 “This high-power committee has independent fire experts from Delhi, Lucknow and Noida besides town planners of the three areas of GB Nagar,” said Deepak Agarwal. “The proposal will be ready within a month after which it will be examined in detail and sent to the three boards. Once approved by the boards, they will be forwarded to the state government for final nod before being implemented,” the CEO said.
 
 Agarwal said that the committee had been told to borrow from the best international fire safety standards from across the globe. “The aim is to make the three areas more fire-resilient. The committee will be working on two fronts. To enhance fire safety measures by amending building bylaws and secondly by augmenting fire safety infrastructure,” he said. 
 
 “Presently, we follow the National Building Code for implementation of fire safety measures in buildings. The plan is to strengthen fire safety norms. Besides making them stricter, we want to ensure safety of occupants in highrises and protect property from fire,” he added.
 
 “The amendments will aim primarily at preventing fires, ensuring that necessary training and equipment is on hand and that the original design basis of the building, including the basic plan set out by the architect, is not compromised. Sanctioned layout building plans will have to adhere to the norms in respect to escape routes, setbacks, elevator standards, etc. These norms will be implemented and enforced in public buildings including schools, colleges, hospitals, institutional buildings and residential buildings,” Saumya Srivastava, deputy CEO told TOI.
 
 
