VARANASI: As the   enters the last lap, small, politically unattached caste groups add intrigue to the electoral thriller. These groups, most of them representing the most backward classes, and many of whom voted the BJP to power in 2014, said they will now affiliate with parties that serve their collective interests best. 

 Among others, the Alliance for Empowerment of Native Indians (AENI), a collective of six such small parties including Krishna Patel-led Apna Dal (Sonelal), Nirbal Indian Shoshit Hamara Aam Dal ( ), Jan Adhikar Party, Bharatiya Yuva Kranti Dal, Sabha Dal United, and Peace Party said their key concern was to push for reservation proportionate to the population of each community.
 
 Together, the groups said they were banking on the Nishad, Kurmi and Muslim votes to swing at least 10 of the nearly 350 seats they’re contesting in UP. NISHAD national president Sanjay Kumar Nishad, said, “Our politics is for the rights of those on the last rung of the development ladder. The BJP used the Kevat community during the Ram Temple movement. Nishads were among those who died for the Ram temple. Yet, while the temple remains on the BJP’s agenda, the fisherman community that died for the cause was neither protected, nor provided for. They got none of the education, jobs, or the progress they were promised.”
 
 Nishad population, which accounts for 15.5% of UP’s electorate, also holds grudge against all political parties that have been in power and who failed to provide for the fishermen. “There is rampant differentiation. While Yadavs enjoy more jobs in proportion to their population, other backwards face discrimination. A Hindu ‘julaha’ gets reservation but a Muslim doesn’t. That is the gap we want bridged. We want proportionate distribution of development opportunities,” added Nishad.
 
 In East UP, the split in Kurmi votes as a result of the mother-daughter feud between Krishna Patel and Mirzapur MP Anupriya Patel is also queering the electoral battlefield. In Rohaniya, while Anupriya throws in her might to secure the Kurmi bastion for the BJP, of which she is an ally, mother Krishna Patel, also contesting the polls, claims she still enjoys the backing of the Kurmi community.
 
 The absence, though, of an organised leadership, also keeps the smaller   divided, politically. President of Most Backward Classes Association, Ram Sumiran Vishwakarma, said, “Samajwadi Party government moved a proposal to include 17 most backward classes in the scheduled list of castes. But the BJP and BSP unanimously opposed the decision. They have historically proved themselves to be anti-backwards.”
 
 As a collective, AENI alone has fielded nearly 350 candidates on UP’s 403 assembly seats. Many of their candidates may exit the electoral race without a whimper, but in many parts of East UP and Bundelkhand, they may collectively dent bigger parties, especially the BJP that depends on the non-Yadav OBC and MBC votes.
 
 Demonetisation and the resultant job losses has impacted polls among this segment of people. “Community and cadre-based organisations understand the impact. People have lost jobs and the poor are poorer today. Socially deprived classes have been pushed further back and people have taken note,” said Nishad.
 
 In the run-up to polling on March 8, and results on March 11, the caste collectives claim UP is headed for a hung assembly. “We believe that we will do well enough to ensure that no one can form the government without taking our voices into account,” said Dr Ayub, president, Peace Party. 
 
 
