

 
 
 For a game that’s borrows its name itself from men (mard), it is ironic that more women are showing interest in learning it. City-based trainer  , who runs the  , has been getting enquiries about the training from women of the city since a while now. One such query came from  , a lawyer from the city. “The general perspective of the society towards women is that they are delicate and should be involved in household work. Taking up Mardani Khel was a conscious decision towards breaking this shell of the society and change the way people think,” informs Amruta, who has encouraged more women to take up the activity. 
 
  
  
 Vijay has always had girl students, ever since he started training people in the martial art around six years ago. “But the number has gone up considerably now and I am very happy about it. Mardani Khel not only helps in self-defence but also boosts concentration and alertness. Looking at the rising number of crimes against women today, this is the need of the hour. One of the first things I tell the girls in my class is to get rid of their pre-conceived notions about men being stronger. Everyone is equal and there are no conditions that apply to women,” says Vijay.
  
 
 
 Ladies, as young as 11 years of age, are taking to the activity. Harshada Deshmukh, a class VI student, is among the youngest of the lot. Her mother Vrushali informs, “It’s always better to start young. You never know what might happen and there might be situations when no one is there to help. At such times, alertness and self-defence techniques are most helpful and Mardani Khel gives you that.” Fourteen year old Vaishnavi Chandegra echoes similar thoughts. She says, “The first time I saw people doing it, I thought I could too. I think it’s better to take care of ourselves rather than depending on anyone to help. This activity is like a routine exercise as well as safety tool for me.”
 
 
 
 In the last 3-odd months that Amruta has taken to the martial art, she has succeeded in getting more women to join. “Historically, women have fought wars and helped in the so-called ‘mardani’ activities. Sadly, the society developed but didn’t evolve in terms of perspective of women. After I started training, I encouraged more women to take up the activity. Today, we have 12 ladies in the group and more waiting to join. This is definitely a change towards the better,” says the lawyer.
 
  
  
 Ask her about the conditions that the society puts on women and pat comes the reply, “Why should others decide what we can or cannot do? We’ve had enough of conditions being put on us. It’s time to reinvent the warrior women. It’s time to stand up for ourselves,” she concludes.
 
  
  
 
