Nagpur: With three students vying for every seat under Right to Education (RTE) Act quota in Nagpur district, the lottery draw by education department scheduled for Wednesday morning will be watched closely. Ever since the RTE application process got oversubscribed by 300%, education officials have been on the guard realizing that tempers may flare with 16,363 students guaranteed to get rejected.  An education official informed that only 7,099 seats are available in Nagpur and 23,462 applications have been received. “It’s natural that when an application gets rejected the parents will be highly disappointed and there’s always chance of them blaming the system for it.”  He added that even though the entire process is online, and thus transparent, the department gets blamed when things don’t go people’s way. “There’s no way anybody can tamper with the software as everything is done in a transparent manner. The system is completely run by the government (run by National Informatics Centre),” he said.  Fortunately, education officials won’t have to face the problems on Wednesday itself because results will come later in the week from Pune office after the software specialists run the program. For the computer program to be run, a series of numbers are needed to be entered into a matrix and it is these numbers that will be chosen in Nagpur on Wednesday.  Dipendra Lokhande, district’s education official, said, “We are expecting the entire process to be smooth and am confident that all stakeholders will cooperate.”  The RTE lottery software uses a unique algorithm logic which gets its initial starting grid by randomly chosen numbers. This is the first step that will be completed on Wednesday itself at a public event. The lottery grids are filled by randomly selected number, a process in which the public too participates. As in the previous years, the practice is to place four separate bowls filled with paper chits containing numbers.  Children from the audience are called to choose the chits and read out the numbers. The numbers are verified by authorities and then entered into the grid. This entire process is videotaped to ensure complete transparency. Once the grid is complete it is displayed on a large screen and the public is asked to click a picture, if they needed, of the screen. These grid numbers will then be sent to education department headquarters at Pune where it will be fed into the lottery software. The second step is the conduct of lottery itself and is likely to be done within a week. Selected parents get a SMS on their registered mobile numbers informing them about their child’s admission status. 