Nagpur: The 7.2km long Pardi flyover being built by National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is set to miss its March 2019 deadline. East Nagpur MLA Krishna Khopde has now demanded its extension by almost 850 meter. The demand will escalate the project cost by Rs80 crore, from the existing Rs665 crore. The Pardi flyover has been planned with five arms, two railway overbridges, and one under bridge. In view of the new demand, NHAI has slowed down work. On Tuesday, TOI visited the construction site and found that the work has been stalled completely. Khopde told TOI that the under-construction flyover should be extended by almost 850 metres, up to Muslim burial ground, from its original plan of landing at Mini Mata Nagar. According to him, East Nagpur residents have approached him and demanded extension of the flyover by another two junctions — Mini Mata nagar and Bhagwan Sambhavnath Mandir Square. “I approached union transport minister Nitin Gadkari with their demand. The union minister too showed positive response,” he said. Gadkari has forwarded the proposal to NHAI headquarters in New Delhi and directed them to consider its extension, said Khopde. A senior NHAI official admitted that Khopde has submitted a proposal to the union transport minister and explained that “as per present status we will be constructing the Pardi flyover before Mini Mata Nagar Square”. With the new demand, NHAI will have to again prepare a complete detailed project report. It will definitely takes its time, admitted the officer. Residents of East Nagpur asking for extension of under construction Pardi flyover to ease traffic load on Parampara Lawns Square (Bhagwan Sambhavnath Mandir Square) is quite understood, pointed out Vidarbha Taxpayers Association secretary Tejinder Singh Renu. Recently, VTA had submitted a memorandum to NHAI officials over slow progress of Pardi flyover construction. Traffic experts also said that if NHAI considers Khopde’s proposal, it will defeat the purpose of easing vehicular chaos on Old Bhandara Road, especially in Pardi area. However, when any structure of this magnitude is proposed, its purpose is considered in a larger context than just traffic at a junction, and taking into consideration future needs, said Renu. The Parampara Lawns Square intersects Old Bhandara Road and Middle Ring Road, which connects practically all industries of Small Factory Area, Lakadganj, Kalamna Market, APMC, Shastri Nagar and Transport Nagar. Another important aspect is that a large chunk of heavy traffic from Kamptee Road can reach Parampara Lawns Square via Ring Road directly. Therefore, once the Pardi flyover is ready, they can also skip Old Bhandara Road Naka Square and Pardi by taking this flyover from its originally proposed place. Renu said if this flyover is extended towards the city, it will be technically and logically incorrect. This will cause almost 80-90% of trucks and other heavy vehicles travelling towards the city to take a U-turn to take this flyover. Otherwise, all such heavy vehicles will be forced to travel by Old Bhandara Road instead of the flyover, thus defeating the purpose of this flyover. To a query, the NHAI officer said while preparing DPR traffic assessment will also be considered.