JAIPUR: With the government failing to appoint vice-chancellors (V-Cs), seven bureaucrats are holding additional charge of V-Cs in state varsities.

 Officials said that since there were a lot of issues, including the co-ordination of four bodies, the process of appointing V-Cs has become a cumbersome process.
 
 In Jaipur too, divisional commissioner of   was given the additional charge as V-C of   (RU) when   resigned following adverse remarks from the Rajasthan High Court. He was the also given additional charge of Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS).
 
 The appointment of V-Cs involves coordination of four stakeholders—the governor house, UGC, state government and university. While every V-C has a set tenure, the process of appointing a new V-C starts only three to four months in advance, which often misses the deadline.
 
 However, in the case of RU, V-C J P Singhal resigned following critical remarks made by the high court over academic qualification which was not in accordance with UGC guidelines.
 
 “But, Singh who came in his place at RU has been overburdened with additional charge of a medical university. This is absurd. RU is a complex institution and requires a dedicated person. It will be difficult for him to attend meetings lined up daily, handle issues cropping up while taking care of his administrative duties as the divisional commissioner along with the additional charge of RUHS,” said a teacher of RU.
 
 Maharaja Ganga Singh University in Bikaner has divisional commissioner (Bikaner) Suwa Lala as V-C, Braj University in Bharapur is headed by divisional commissioner Vikas Bhale, Shekawati University by district collector of Sikar K B Gupta, Gobind Guru Tribal University is Banswara by divisional commissioner of   and Sports University by IAS officer J C Mohanti.
 
 The state has seven divisions—Ajmer, Bharatpur, Bikaner, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota and Udaipur— and divisional commissioners in these divisional headquarters have been given additional charge as V-Cs. While the additional charge should ideally be held for a few months, in reality it lasts for over a year. Hanuman Singh Bhati and Madhukar Gupta, both former divisional commissioners of Jaipur, held the reins of RU for close to a year.
 
