NEW DELHI: West Bengal CM   met Congress chief   on Tuesday to add heft to the 
  and urged the government to go for a consensus over the nominee for the top job.

 After the meeting with Sonia who has been at the forefront of opposition’s efforts to field a joint candidate, the Trinamool chief said, “India is a vast country and unity is our biggest strength. Hence it is better for the country to go in for a consensus candidate.”
 
 She said the “government should take initiative to build a consensus” on the presidential candidate.
 
 Banerjee said apart from presidential polls, she also discussed the Modi government’s “vendetta politics” with Sonia on a day 
  , son of former Union minister  , while I-T department carried out raids at several locations in connection with alleged 
  members.
 
 Banerjee lashed out at the Centre for using CBI and other central agencies to get at rival political parties and leaders, saying “confrontation cannot be the way to function in a democracy”.
 
 “You have seen what has gone on for the entire day (referring to CBI/IT raids)… whoever they (the Centre) don’t like they will send to jail, put CBI behind them, mark them as terrorists… whether it is Naveenji (Patnaik), Laluji (Prasad), Chidambaramji, Akhilesh,  , Kejriwal, Virbhadraji and also us (TMC). But we will not allow democracy to be bulldozed,” she told reporters after emerging from the meeting at 10, Jan Path.
 
 Banerjee said no names were discussed during the meeting with Sonia Gandhi, also attended by Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi.
 
 Congress appeared to toe the line of Bihar CM Nitish Kumar who 
  .
 
 “We are extremely proud of the fact that Mukherjee comes from the pedigree of an ideology that has been the centre point of this country from its formation up till today and would be in future.
 
 As far as candidate for the post of President and Vice President are concerned, they are intrinsic to our democratic set up for not only is the President the Supreme Commander of our Armed Forces, he is also the protector of our Constitution,” party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said.
 
 “It is also the role of President or Vice president to counter the government when it loses its way. So bereft of political partisanship, you need on these posts an individual who will be able to uphold the highest principles as enshrined in our Constitution. Congress president and Congress vice president will confer with leaders of other political parties and we will try and build a consensus around it,” he added.
 
 Banerjee is expected to meet President   besides Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.
 
