LUCKNOW: Bowing to the demands of agitating students,   on Friday agreed to constitute a “meritorious student council“ till students' union elections are held. It also agreed to write to the high court for early hearing of the case in which it had stayed holding of students' union election in the university.

 However, the student group protesting for the past five days refused to call off their stir saying they will withdraw only after LU announces to the date of elections. The announcement came in a written statement issued by the university administration on Friday evening.
 
 It said three representatives from agitating students met vice-chancellor   on Thursday for talks.They suggested that the university forms a council of meritorious student comprising toppers of various departments. The council will work till students' union elections are held.
 
 “The V-C agreed to this suggestion and issued directions to start the process.Student representatives had promised to come for talks again on Friday but did not do so.
 
 The vice-chancellor then sent a message, reminding them but they refused saying they wanted the university to write a letter to the government requesting to speed up the process for early hearing in the court. They also wanted the university to direct its counsel to request court for early hearing. The university agreed to both the demands but students still refused to call off their agitation,“ said LU spokesperson Prof NK Pandey.
 
 LU students' union elections were stayed by the high court in 2012 during the hearing of a case filed by a student leader. The matter is sub judice since.
 
 Students announced they will not withdraw the agitation merely on assurance. The university must get the stay vacated at the earliest and announce election dates, they said. Till then, the protest will continue.
 
 
 
 
 Lucknow university should work on the idea of constituting a meritorious students council till regular students union elections are held, even if students to not withdraw agitation.Such a council will act as a bridge between students and administration and democratize policy making. It will provide students a platform to air their grievances and help university earn trust of students.
 
