GREATER NOIDA: The Noida and Greater Noida authorities will not take up any new infrastructure project, including a proposed heliport and convention centre, due to a fund shortage, said the authority CEO  . 

 He had put two proposed Metro projects in the twin cities on hold for the same reason last week. Prasad said his focus will be on completing   first, rather than taking up new ones.
 
 According to  , resources of the twin authorities are stretched, as they are looking at outstanding dues amounting to almost Rs 20,000 crore from realtors. They added that if they fail to recover these dues, which include substantial loans, the two authorities would be staring at a crisis in the near future. “Until we have funds available, no new construction projects will be undertaken,” Prasad told TOI. 
 
 “We do not want to face a situation where new projects are launched and then suspended midway, due to paucity of funds,” he said. 
 
 “Launch of all new projects will depend on the financial position of the two authorities,” he added. 
 
 In May 2013, the  , led by then chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, had conceptualised a heliport for Greater Noida at a cost of about Rs 50 crore. It was proposed to be constructed on a 22-acre open area in Safipur village, located along the Noida-Greater Noida expressway near Gautam Budh University. A 31-acre convention centre, to be designed along similar lines as Vigyan Bhavan, was also proposed the same year.
 
 In December 2016, the state government had approved a 15km Metro project connecting Noida Sector 71 with Greater Noida’s Knowledge Park V. The   had also proposed an 11km link from Botanic Garden to Sector 142, to connect Noida’s interior areas. Both projects were to cost over Rs 5,000 crore. 
 
 Prasad said his priority is to focus on completing the two Metro links currently under construction — the 29.7km Noida-Greater Noida link and the 6.8km City Centre to Sector 62 link. “No new or proposed Metro tracks will be taken up until the financial health of the authorities improves, and we recover our outstanding dues and loans,” he said. “We will initiate work on a new Metro project only after arranging adequate funds,” Prasad said.
 
