NEW DELHI: With burning not an option after the   banning it in 2015,   of   is the best way of getting rid of the fallen foliage in an efficient manner. But with experts complaining that little has been done to facilitate the process, heaps of dry tree leaves are piling up in colonies, with no one the wiser on how to manage them.

 In leaf-shedding season, resident in some colonies have reported desperate cases of burning, which attracts a fine of Rs 5,000. But there has been little promotion of or creation of compost pits in parks, as recommended by NGT. No wonder environment experts are frustrated that though the policies are in place, the anti-pollution norms are not being effectively implemented.
 
 “Delhi needs composting to be the main way of reducing organic waste on the streets and to help in generating manure. But the waste is still being burnt in some places,” said Shashi Bhushan, secretary,  . 
 
 Of the civic bodies, only   has set up 21 centres to manage green waste.
 
 “At these centres, shredders treat the waste, which is then used to produce natural fertiliser,” said an SDMC official. “Earlier, 20-25 metric tonnes of green waste were being sent to the landfill site every day. But we longer have to do this, so it has also reduced the burden on the landfills.”
 
 Despite the presence of green waste treatment centres, however, residents in many south corporation areas claimed that their colony roads have not been cleared of leaves for many days.
 
 The cash-strapped corporations in the north and east have not been able to put in mechanisms for managing organic waste. A North Delhi Municipal Corporation official admitted that the civic body had planned tendering to procure shredders, but never got around to doing it.
 
 In some areas, however, NGOs are helping RWAs carry out composting work. In Defence Colony, Chintan and the RWA created composting pits to productively rid the place of organic waste. 
 
 “If RWAs can do this, why can’t the civic bodies?” asked Chitra Mukherjee, head of programmes and operations, Chintan. “It is cost effective and environment friendly. All it needs is for waste to be segregated. The wet waste and green waste can be used in composting, while dry household waste can be recycled.”
 
 A similar system has been implemented at Munirka Enclave, with the people of the colony shifting to vermi-composting to generate organic manure in the park there. “There are 5-6 pits into which we dump our kitchen green waste as well as leaves. We then add earthworms, which help turn the organic matter into plant-friendly compost,” said Sharad Garg, a resident of Munirka Enclave.
 
 Segregation is not only necessary for composting, but mixing up of municipal solid waste with other types of waste is a major cause of methane-fuelled landfill fires. Under new regulations, the civic bodies have to ensure that there is no mixing up of different kinds of household waste.
 
 
