HYDERABAD: An Indian woman from Gujarat sexually harassed by her kafil (employer) in Saudi Arabia has been rescued by the Ministry of External Affairs with the   strongly pursuing the case.  , a victim of  , slavery and sexual harassment, had a dazed look on her face as she landed in the Mumbai airport from Saudi Arabia early on Sunday morning.

 The human trafficking case was brought to light by a social worker and BJP leader from Hyderabad, T R Sriniwas. TOI contacted the victim Hafijabanu Rajabhusen who was in a location she herself did not know in Saudi Arabia and learnt about her plight from her. A report was published in this newspaper on March 8 with the 30-year-old Hafijabanu’s desperate plea to be rescued.
 
 Hafijabanu Rajabhusen’s nightmarish experience has ended as she arrived in Mumbai from Saudi Arabia on Sunday morning. By late afternoon she is expected to be taken to her home in Ahmedabad. “Hafijanabanu has been rescued and the Gujarat government is proceeding strongly against the agents responsible for her plight,” Sriniwas said.
 
 “Operation Rescue Hafijabanu Rajabhusen” was initiated by Dholka district deputy collector Rituraj Desai who after taking all the details from T R Sriniwas and this reporter, took up the matter with the Ministry of External Affairs and the Indian Embassy in Riyadh. Protector General of Emigrants (PGE) Government of India, M C Luther who reacted to the pitiable condition of Hafijabanu took her details so that her rescue could be pursued.
 
 “We will have to rescue her at any cost. No effort has to be spared,” Gujarat’s revenue minister   told the deputy collector. 
 
 Chudamasama represents Dholka constituency in Gujarat and Hafijbabanu Rajabhusen belongs to the place.
 
 Hafijabanu Rajabhusen had told TOI when she was contacted in Saudi Arabia that apart from the torture she was having to bear in an unknown place, the kafil (employer) was making her life even more miserable. “I live in constant fear,” she said explaining about the sexually harassment that she was suffering. She was taken to Saudi Arabia in May 2016.
 
 “Not only has Hafjibanu been rescued, we have also identified the illegal agents who sent her to Saudi Arabia with false promises. One of them is from Mumbai and another from Ahmedabad. Both have been arrested,” deputy collector Rituraj Desai told TOI.
 
 BJP leader from Hyderabad, T R Sriniwas who also holds a corporate job working in the gulf, takes time to rescue Indians in distress in Saudi Arabia. 
 
 Srinivas was also responsible for bringing to light the misery of Noorjahen, another victim of human trafficking and sexual harassment from Gujarat, who was rescued. External affairs minister Sushma Swaraj had taken keen interest in the rescue of the distressed woman.
 
 With Hafijabanu Rajabhusen’s case, the rescue operation involved several agencies and people.
 
 “Once she arrives in Ahmedabad in Mumbai we will see that they gets proper medical help and also psychological help to get over her nightmarish experience. We will also strongly pursue the case against the agents who were involved in illegally sent her to Saudi Arabia and were responsible for her plight,” deputy collector Rituraj Desai said.
 
