KOZHIKODE: A recent study conducted by the   (MCC), a tertiary cancer centre in Kannur, has revealed that tobacco use is the major cause behind the high incidence of lung cancers in   districts of Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasargod.

 The study had detected that as much as 36 per cent of patients in these districts have the habit of smoking. Patients from Kasargod were the most prone to smoking at 40 per cent followed by Kannur at 34 per cent and Kozhikode at 33 per cent. The extent of smoking among Kerala adults, as per latest benchmark figures of Global Adult Tobacco Survey of Union   Ministry, is 13.4 per cent.
 
 Lung and breast cancer rank high among the various cancers across the three study districts. The distribution of lung and breast cancers in Kannur is 15 per cent. Lung cancers contribute to 11 percent and breast cancers are at 13 per cent in Kozhikode. In Kasargod, lung and breast cancers are 13 and 15 per cents respectively. 
 
 The retrospective study ‘Geographical Distribution of Cancer in Northern Kerala, India: A Retrospective Analysis’ was conducted based on the data of the hospital based cancer registry (HBCR) for the year 2011 in MCC. A total of 2,366 cancer patients – 1,259 males and 1,107 females – had registered at the MCC in 2011 from the districts of Kozhikode (457), Kannur (1670) and Kasaragod (239).
 
 The study also refers to harms of second-hand smoke or passive smoke as it found that 10 per cent of female registered patients were passive smokers. It also revealed that pan chewing among patients from Kannur, Kasargod and Kozhikode stands at 14, 19 and 16 per cents respectively. The   (IARC) of the  , after scientific evaluations, has pronounced that chewing betel quid with and without tobacco is carcinogenic to humans.
 
 Dr B Satheesan, director of MCC and principal investigator of the study said, the study findings once again revealed the role of tobacco in cancers and tobacco control is the best way to prevent cancers. "Things can no longer be left to chance as the combined burden that tobacco use causes on morbidity and mortality at micro and macro levels is enormous. Regular monitoring of tobacco control measures at the district level should be initiated through monthly reviews of enforcement and awareness activities,” he said. "The high availability and consumption of tobacco both in smoking and chewing forms in north Kerala may also be attributed as a reason for high rate of tobacco related cancers in the area," he said.
 
