PUNE/MUMBAI: A day after the   refused to reconsider its order banning  , permit rooms and bars within 500 metres of national and state highways from April 1, the BJP-led   government started work on a plan to denotify state highways in Mumbai, Pune and other major cities to circumvent the apex court ruling.

 A senior excise official said so far, four states - Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Chandigarh - have already denotified their state highways, so they will not have to shut liquor vends along these roads. In Maharashtra, the Jalgaon and Yavatmal civic bodies denotified state highways passing through the two cities after the SC ruling came in. “The Jalgaon civic commissioner and Yavatmal council chief officer have informed the government on the denotification. They have submitted that the roads in the two cities will be maintained by the local bodies,“ he said.
 
 Asked if the state had plans to take away the highway tag, CM Devendra Fadnavis told TOI, “We are trying to find a so lution (to the issue) but haven't found it yet.“
 
 Pune district collector Saurabh Rao told TOI that a proposal has been sent to the state government seeking denotification of state highways that pass through the city and are maintained by the PMC. The state is considering taking away highway tags from roads in major cities to get around the SC order on liquor vends.
 
 Excise minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule told the Assembly on Saturday that according to a June 9, 2001 notification, the state had decided that local bodies which had a bypass for diversion of heavy traffic could seek denotification of highways. These roads would then have to be maintained by these bodies.
 
 “Using this notification, if many local bodies and municipal corporations want to denotify some stretches, this rule (of not having liquor vends within 500m) will not be applicable on those stretches,“ the minister said on a day most hotels and restaurants along state and national highways in Pune, including the Ahmednagar Pune highway (a major hub of permit rooms, lounges and bars), had stopped serving liquor.
 
 Bawankule said, “If licence holders find an alternative spot beyond the 500m limit, they will be allowed to shift their licences without any fresh charges.“ An excise department official also said establishments that wish to shift their premises outside the radius mandated by Supreme Court can do so free of cost upon applying to the excise department.
 
 Excise department officials sealed 1,600 licences of vends and permit rooms along the highways in Pune district. “We sealed close to 1,600 licences, including 169 wine shops on such stretches, 899 permit room licences and 197 retail shop licenses in Pune district,“ a senior state excise department official told TOI.
 
 An excise official said, “All liquor serving establishments within a radius of 220 metres along highways have had their licences sealed. These also include establishments on highways passing through city roads like Deccan Gymkhana, Jangli Maharaj Road and Swargate, among others.“
 
 Vikram Shetty, owner of Sadanand Resort and Sada nand Regency on the Mum bai-Bangalore highway, said, “Out of three of my hotels, two are on the highway. We stopped serving liquor from Saturday after the excise department sealed liquor licences of permit rooms on highways. A lot of our guests walked out on Saturday without food, as we were not serving liquor.“
 
 Representatives of hotels on   and Kharadi, also highways, refused to comment on the issue.
 
 The district authorities on Saturday said that denotification of several state highways in the district might soon take place. Management of a majority of state highways in Pune was given to municipal, corporations in 1991.
 
 Vikram Shetty, vice-president of the Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association l (PRAHA), said, “The authorities are in the process of de, notifying state roads to district roads, as was done in Ra jasthan. Most state highways in Pune may be denotified. soon.“
 
 Ganesh Shetty, president of PRAHA, denied reports of some restaurants in the city being closed on Saturday fol, lowing the SC order.
 
