For 45-year-old Siriyapushpam, a daily wage labourer who earns `100 a day, falling ill costs her dear. The Kodambakkam resident is HIV positive and has to forgo a day’s wage to travel to a   in Tambaram. At times when the prescribed medicine is unavailable at the hospital, she has to buy the same from outside at a steeper price. While a weak immune system and lack of a nutritious diet make Siriyapushpam susceptible to frequent bouts of illnesses, she says meeting the increasing medical expense gets harder for her each time. 

 Siriyapushpam’s case is not isolated. A complete absence of insurance cover against opportunistic infections (infections caused due to a weak immune system), affects more than 21 lakh people living with HIV (PLHIV) across the country, including 1.42 lakh in TN.
 
 It has been more than a month since the HIV and AIDS (Prevention and Control) Act 2014 came into place, but insurers say, they are yet to get guidelines on including such patients in health, life and critical illness segments. The Act protects PLHIV against denial, termination, discontinuation and unfair treatment with regard to employment, educational establishments, healthcare services, residing or renting property, standing for public or private office, and provision of insurance. But without specific instructions, PLHIV in the country remain without cover.
 
 According to ‘India HIV Estimation 2015’ report of National AIDS Control Organisation, there were 21.17 lakh PLHIV, including 86,000 newly infected people in 2015. With the highest prevalence being recorded in Nagaland (1.29%), TN’s prevalence rate (0.27%) was higher than the national average of 0.26%.
 
  
  
 
 "I have seen cases where hospitals have refused to conduct surgeries to remove uterine fibroids on HIV positive persons. Others charge two to three times the actual cost to operate. If an insurance scheme is introduced for PLHIV, there would be some regulation," Kousalya Periasamy, founder of NGO Positive Women’s Network. 
 
 According to a 2006 UNDP study on the socio-economic impact of HIV and AIDS in India, a person with HIV bears expenses between `25,000 - `30,000 a year. The situation is worse if the earning member in a family is frequently hospitalised.
 
 HIV/AIDS and related complications are excluded from critical insurance covers and insurers say they haven’t received instructions to include it in their policies. Health insurance for groups, however, exists. "In the group health segment, Cigna TTK offers AIDS/HIV cover up to full sum insured under the global health group policy. It covers Indian locals and expatriates working abroad under one umbrella. This cover is available for employees, dependent spouse and children," says Sandeep Patel, CEO and MD, Cigna TTK Health Insurance.
 
 Star Health & Allied Insurance provides group cover under the NetPlus policy where the proposal has to come from NGOs or government agencies. However, expenses for HIV treatment are excluded as are people with low CD4 count.
 
 "Only if companies take the initiative and insure PLHIV for frequent hospitalisations and opportunistic infections can insurance create an impact and gain public trust," says Dr S Prakash, senior executive director, Star Health and Allied Insurance. 
 
 Others say the new law is a step in the right direction. "With more such steps and availability of more data to enable pricing of products, we can look towards greater inclusion," says Ashish Mehrotra, MD and CEO, Max Bupa Health Insurance.
 
 But for rural households, 72% of who, according to a 2014 NSSO study, rely on private hospitals for treatment, retail insurance continues to be a dream. Dr Sathish Kumar, country doctor for Solidarity and Action Against HIV Infection in India said cover for PLHIV from lower income groups particularly need attention. Presently, the collective gets such PLHIV enrolled in the Rashtriya   Yojana (RSBY). Under the scheme, PLHIV from BPL families can get free hospitalisation up to ₹30,000 per family per year. 
 
 While increasing medical expenses burn a hole in their pockets, patients say unavailability of medicines at ART (Antiretroviral Therapy) centres forces them to make additional trips to the health centre, which robs them of their day’s income.
 
 Nutrition is another aspect which seems to have been brushed aside.  , a former programme officer of the state AIDS control programme and consultant (community medicine & infectious disease) at SIMS Hospital says, "Medicines will work only if PLHIV take nutritious meals," adding that the Centre should implement a scheme similar to the mid-day meal for PLHIV.
 
 In December 2013, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) announced that people with HIV or other pre-existing illnesses would need to pay a higher premium for life insurance. It also urged companies to continue insuring individuals who contract HIV after buying the policy. This was two months after it issued draft guidelines asking insurers to provide life cover to HIV/AIDS patients.
 
 A lot remains to be done, especially in health insurance. At present, an individual with critical injuries or illnesses such as paralysis or cancer is more likely to getting insurance cover than an HIV positive patient on ART.
 
 
