PUNE: The   and a female   of a school bus had a close shave early on Friday morning when the vehicle, which was on its way to pick students up, fell into a 20ft ditch after crashing into an electric pole and trees along the NDA-Pashan  .

 A major tragedy was averted as the bus, from New India School in Bhusari Colony, was empty. Besides, it did not crash into the construction labourers’ houses located just a few metres away from the spot. 
 
 Driver Shekhar Jori (35) and attendant Sandhya Jadhav (42) escaped with minor injuries, and were immediately rushed to a nearby hospital, officials from the Hinjewadi police station said. 
 
 Arun Kotulkar, a resident of Bavdhan, who rushed to the spot after witnessing the accident from his balcony told TOI the accident happened around 7.30am. The bus was heading towards   from Chandni Chowk. “The bus was on the gradient, when suddenly it moved to the left. Within seconds, the bus jumped the footpath and crashed into an electric pole,” he said.
 
 As the bus hit the pole, Kotulkar said he heard a loud firecracker-like noise and saw flames emanating from the pole. “The driver then managed to turn the bus. It then hit the pole of a sign board on the footpath, brushed against a tree and drove a few meters on the footpath, hit another tree and then fell into the ditch,” Kotulkar said.
 
 Venkatesh, a labourer who was standing outside his house and getting ready to go to work, was shocked when he saw the bus hit the pole and the flames that sparked off after that. “Our houses are near the pole. I thought the bus would come straight down and fall on our houses,” Venkatesh said.
 
 He said that many women and children were inside the houses at that time of the day. “I thought of alerting everyone but the bus went ahead and fell a few metres away from our houses,” Venkatesh said. 
 
 He said the driver and attendant came out of the bus on their own after breaking the glass of the emergency exit door. 
 
 
 
 
 The Hinjewadi police and the Pune fire brigade rushed to the spot immediately. Fire officer Gajanan Pathrudkar told TOI that when they reached the spot, the driver and attendant were already sent to the hospital. “We checked the bus to see if anyone was stuck inside,” Pathrudkar said.
 
 He said that the other end of the ditch was covered with tin sheds. “We had to cut the tin sheds to make room for the crane. The bus was later removed from the spot with the crane,” Pathrudkar said.
 
 Amit Dolas, assistant inspector of the Hinjewadi police, said, “We will register a case of accident after recording the statements of the driver and the attendant. Prima facie it appears the accident was caused due to a brake failure.”
 
 
 
 
 Sunita Bhagwat, director of New India School, told TOI she visited the spot and the hospital Jori was being treated. “Jori told me that when he realised the brakes were not working, he decided to crash into the footpath and stop as there was no one walking there,” Bhagwat said.
 
 Bhagwat said that due to the incline on the road, the bus had picked up speed. “The driver showed presence of mind and averted a major tragedy,” she said, adding that another school bus that was on the same route helped Jori and the attendant. 
 
 Bhagwat added that the school has had its own transport facility for ten years and this is the first incident of its kind. 
 
 
