CHENNAI: More than four months after a single judge of the   upheld a   (Trai) order slashing cable landing stations (CLS) charges of   to one-tenth the original tariff, a division bench has declined to stay its operation considering the   involved.

 The first bench of Acting Chief Justice Huluvadi G Ramesh and Justice R M T Teeka Raman said: “Having gone through various provisions of law as also amendment made to Trai Act and also taking into consideration the financial implication involved, this court is of the considered view the matter has got wider ramifications both on the perspective of the consumers as also the department on the financial aspect, and therefore it would be wholly unsafe to pass any interim orders at this point of time.” It said, “an exhaustive hearing is very much essential for passing any order,” and then adjourned the hearing to April 17.
 
 In India, CLS are owned by service providers. Submarine cables providing vital international communication between countries terminate in India on seashore through CLS. Regulations mandate CLS provide access to any eligible Indian international telecommunication entity, on fair and non-discriminatory services. The tariff structure requires Trai approval.
 
 In 2010, some service providers informed Trai said the CLS charges it had approved were high and wanted them cut. In October 2012, Trai reduced the charges by 1/10th.
 
 Challenging it, Tata Telecommunications Ltd and   moved the high court, but a single judge dismissed it on November 11, 2016. 
 
 Senior advocate P Chidambaram, appearing for Tata Telecommunications, said CLS was infrastructure and Trai had no power to regulate the company which was not a service provider. Senior advocate P S Raman, appearing for Bharti Airtel, said in 2016 the Supreme Court in call drop case said a regulation could be struck down if there were no reasons and if power was not traceable to the Trai Act.
 
 Senior advocate P Wilson, representing Trai, said the two CLS owners were refusing to comply with December 2012 regulations as they were ‘duopolising’ the market making it difficult for broadband penetration. The National Telecom Policy envisages using telecom infrastructure to enable all citizens to participate in the internet economy, he said.
 
