We all know   is good for us, it's been the hobby of many of the worlds greatest people for centuries. Now we have science to back it up; several scientific studies and surveys show the positive effect reading had on our   and over all  . Read on to see how reading shapes our mind and/or brain positively, some of them may surprise you!

 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Every book you read teaches you something new. Be it a dry book on economics or a steamy romance, you will have come away with something. All knowledge is useful from new insights into the buying trends or an idea of what to try in bed.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Having a set night-time routine helps you fall asleep more easily and improves the quality of sleep. Reading before you sleep is one of the oldest night-time routines. It's preferable to read a physical book rather than an e-reader to avoid that toxic blue light.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 From visualization to creative problem-solving to improved memory, books have been found to build your brain in many ways. After all, forming mental images fires more neurons than simply processing pictures on screens.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  When reality gets too irritating or overwhelming, there’s nothing like slipping into a fictional world to get away from it all. Chances are your protagonist has it worse.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 By being a slower and self timed process, reading lets us think more than most other forms of visual entertainment, this encouragement of thought helps exercise the imagination.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 In our generation where YouTube videos over 4 minutes are considered long and a listicle on reading needs moving pictures to gain clicks, reading a whole book is the most enjoyable way to build focus.
 
  
  
 
 
  While reading is a lone pastime, readers have been found to display more positive social behaviour. Reading has been found to build social skills like empathy and communication.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 A recent study found that reading books have been proven to improve empathy in people. It makes sense, you can’t truly understand someone until you make the effort to see things from their perspective and books allow you to do just that.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The more words you’re exposed to, the more you learn and those with a larger vocabulary express themselves better. You don’t have to struggle to find the word or phrase for a thought, chances are you’re already familiar with how to use a word to get your message across best, in conversation or text.
 
