NEW DELHI: In a bid to ensure its   are counted by the   in its ease of doing business  , the government is reaching out to respondents and nodal departments to ensure they are aware of the reforms undertaken.
 
  The World Bank has started the process of gathering the user feedback across 189 countries for the next edition of   report. Up by just one position, India was ranked 130 out of 189 countries on the global doing business report last year, causing disappointment in the government that had expected a better ranking.
  
  India aims to jump 80 spots to be in the top 50 spots in this year’s list. The World Bank interacts with the users before acknowledging the reforms. Lack of positive feedback on the ground was one of reasons cited for India’s poor show in the global ranking even though the government took many measures to improve the business environment.
  
  
 
  
  The Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion ( ), the nodal department for the ease of doing business rankings, has asked departments of justice, urban development and power and also lawyers and chartered accountants to refer to the reform-related information made available online. "They can check and verify if we have accomplished the reforms we have claimed. There has to be more awareness of steps being taken by the government," a senior government official said.
  
  The central government had said that efforts and reforms it has undertaken along with the states were not adequately captured in the ranking released by World Bank last year.
  
  Each ministry was then told to meet once a week to ensure steps are being taken to improve the ease of doing business in their subject matters. Besides, they were also asked to meet with stakeholders and gather feedback from respondents and address any issues raised. All the ministries have also been asked to set up a task force to monitor steps being taken to promote ease of doing business and also appoint a third-party observer to study the effectiveness of reforms and suggest further action.
  
  DIPP has now captured reforms undertaken by the government across the 10 parameters the World Bank will assess as part of its global study. These include getting electricity, enforcing contracts, starting business, registering property, resolving insolvency, construction permits, getting credit, protecting minority investors, paying taxes and trade across borders. 
