MUMBAI: With the threat of the guillotine coming down on  's neck becoming all the more imminent post the   Board meeting on Saturday , the   ( ) appointed by the   have no choice but to get into a huddle.

 The four COA representatives -ex-CAG  , senior banker  , historian   and former India Captain   -have time between now and April 2017 to think of a strategy if India needs to survive an onslaught with massive financial repercussions.
 
 By now, Limaye understands well that there is no way out for the BCCI other than accepting what the ICC Board is going to approve or recommend that India pull out of all their cricket commitments starting with the ICC Champions Trophy . Limaye, and his COA colleague , are of the mindset that India can Rai, are of the mindset that India cannot afford to pull out of the Champions Trophy or bilateral tours simply because the game is followed by millions of Indians and it would hurt sentiments of a cricket-crazy nation.
 
 The most vital stakeholders in Indian cricket, however, firmly believe emotions have no role to play in this fight for what is BCCI's right.
 
 As ICC's TV rights partner, broadcaster Star pays in excess of US$2b. Of that money , the value that Star puts on Indian cricket -something that is mentioned in black and white in its contract -is about US$1.6b, which works to 80% of the total value.The same broadcaster pays BCCI close to Rs 43cr per match for cricket in India, which adds up to an accumulated value of close US$750m, ending 2018.
 
 If India pulls out of its international commitments, starting with the Champions Trophy , common logic should state that it is the broadcaster -with serious money at stake -who will be left to suffer.
 
 That, however, may not be the case.While Star is not willing to comment on the issue, industry experts reckon the broadcaster would take a bigger hit on account of India losing ground at the ICC than anything else. “As for the rights, they can always be renegotiated. It's mentioned in the contract,“ says an industry executive.Then there is the IPL -a property valued among the world's best that can be potentially disrupted. For the record, had the IPL media rights auction not been cancelled in October last year, the property expected a renewed valuation in excess of US$3b, which clearly shows that India is where the money is.
 
 Talking about contracts, there's another big one the COA needs to look at. The BCCI signed a Members' Participation Agreement (MPA) with the ICC in 2014, which is still in place. It categorically states that the agreement between BCCI and ICC can be unequi vocally terminated if there is any change made to the 2014 resolution in terms of revenue distribution.
 
 “The ICC has clearly timed these policy changes knowing there's a vacuum in Indian cricket leadership. We hope everybody understands that once these changes are ratified, there's no turning back,“ says the executive.
 
 Guha, a historian, can throw light on the fact that had BCCI not been the financial behemoth in the game, cricket would've still smacked of the prejudiced approach that Asians have predominantly struggled with -a hangover of the colonial era that is well documented. It is an ideology that all past presidents of BCCI -barring Shashank Manohar -have believed and pursued all along.“Internal differences aside, what everybody needs to understand is that India's pride is at stake here. If the ICC is earning what it does through TV money , it is because more than 95% of that revenue is generated from the subcontinent. India alone brings 85% of that viewership to the table,“ says another industry expert.
 
 
