TRICHY: Does a   need an arch at its entrance for Rs 30 lakh? Not when it is in dire need of better facilities and equipment. Eight months after the directorate of medical education (DME) released the money separately to nine government hospitals for the purpose, an arch at the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) here has been constructed for half the amount, Rs 15 lakh. 

 “The construction of the arch at MGMGH cost only Rs 15 lakh all expenses included. Without surrendering the remaining 50 % of the sanctioned amount, we utilized Rs 6 lakh for laying of roads at two places inside MGMGH,” said a senior PWD official connected with the construction. 
 
 Curiously enough, if the two expenses add up to only Rs 21 lakh, the contractor now claims he had spent Rs 28 lakh on the arch and roads. When contacted the contractor G Ilamayilan, told TOI on Thursday, “I completed the construction work last month for Rs 28 lakh that included the cost for laying two roads and handed it over to PWD.” The PWD official alleged that there was pressure from persons involved in the project to spend the entire amount on the construction of the arch. 
 
 Eyebrows were raised in November last year when the DME allotted Rs 30 lakh each to nine government hospitals across the state for building an arch at their entrance. These included   government hospital in Chennai, Madras medical college, government general hospital, Kilpauk medical college hospital, Chengalpattu medical college hospital, Tirunelveli government medical college hospital, government   medical college, government Vellore medical college and Institute of child health & hospital for children in Chennai. 
 
 While the estimated cost of the construction of the arch shocked everyone, the priority accorded for it while the hospital required basic amenities irked many. “Unmindful of the lack of several basic amenities that directly affect the poor patients, the government allotted such a huge amount for the construction of an arch which could be constructed at a low cost. It shows how public money is being wasted by the politicians and officials in the name of constructing such structures,” said advocate A   in Trichy.
 
 What is worse, the arch is yet to be inaugurated causing severe inconvenience to the patients, particularly the ambulances which have been taking a detour to enter the hospital through a small gate. The arch is still tied by a rope instead of a lock. The work should have been completed in January but the contractor has been accused of prolonging the construction till June this year. Dean (in-charge) MGMGH Dr G Anitha attributed the delay in the inauguration of the arch to the process of installing a CCTV camera in the arch. “The work to set up CCTV camera is going on. Once the installation is over, it may be inaugurated this month,” Dr Anitha 
 
