NAVI MUMBAI: The   ( ) administration has made elaborate arrangements to ensure a smooth polling process on Wednesday. 

 Model polling stations, set up in 110 buildings with 570 polling booths in place will help the voters find their electoral details as well as information of all contestants.
 
 The city police department is also set to maintain law and order during the polls. Adequate armed police forces are in place at the polling booths to keep a strict watch, said officials.
 
  Over 3,000 personnel have been posted in the polling booths, with at least 5 officials in each. The civic chief and election officer, Rajendra Nimbalkar has appealed to the voters to come and cast their votes without fear to elect the 78-member house.
 
  Nimbalkar said, “The troublemakers will be dealt with the law of the land to ensure a free and fair poll. We have deployed as many as 30 flying squads for 20 wards representing six nodes to crack down on any malpractices.”
 
 Banners and hoardings at the model polling booths will include the information available with the officials about the voters and candidates. The voters not having voter slips can collect them from the help desk officials. A special mobile app has also been designed for the polls to help search voters and polling station details.
 
 “A central control room will be operational at the PCMC headquarters in Panvel to monitor the proceedings,” said deputy civic commissioner and nodal officer  . 
 
 As the PCMC election is being held for the first time, no booth has been declared sensitive, said Nimbalkar. 
 
 There will be palanquins to carry the senior and physically challenged voters to the upper floor booths, if any. A few centres will have makeshift ramps for the elderly. 
 
 Temporary sheds have been erected at centres with more voters and drinking water facility is in place at all polling booths, added Nimbalkar.
 
  The cops too are on sharp watch. The police bandobast comprises one DCP (zone 2), two ACPs, 29 police inspectors, 154 assistant and sub-inspectors , apart from a strong deployment of 1,304 constabulary. Also, two striking forces from police headquarters and one team of riot control police have been kept on standby mode. While, 47 police jeeps have been provided to the police teams to patrol across the PCMC jurisdiction. 
 
 One SRPF company of around 100 personnels has been deployed in Panvel taluka to handle any emergency. 
 
 Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale said, “The local police squads have been ordered to conduct sector-wise patrolling in their respective police stations.” 
 
 DCP Zone 2 Rajendra Mane said, “More than 1,700 policemen will be patrolling to ensure that political rivalries don’t result in violence.” DCP (Crime) Tushar Doshi said, “The crime branch Unit -2 team of 18 cops will be keeping a watch on weapons, if any, possessed by individuals or any free liquor being offered to voters.”
 
 
