NAGPUR:   has decided to develop an   near its Mihan depot to boost its non-fare revenue. The attractions of the park include agro-tourism zone, wetland ecological zone,   zone, butterfly and rare orchid centre and urban forest zone. It will also have a club house and a market to cater to customers. The park is spread over an area of about 38,000 square metre. The cost of the project is yet to be worked out. It will be developed on   private partnership (PPP) basis.

 “The eco park will come up in an area housing some of the major future landmarks of Nagpur. They include the Indian Institute of Management (IIM), All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Patanjali food park and the existing Vidarbha Cricket Association (VCA) ground,” a source at Mahametro said.
 
 The eco park is a part of Mahametro’s property development scheme whose aim is to increase the non-fare revenue by 10%. Such development will be done at the two depots and at strategic locations.
 
 “On lines of Hong Kong and some other advanced Metro systems, we will do property development on depot land to ensure captive ridership. Some 25 hectares is available at both depots (Hingna and Mihan). The conceptual proposal and architectural plan has been received from renowned architect Hafeez Contractor,” the source further said.
 
 “Two Metro townships will be developed on depot land on the concept of smart and fully green city having solar power. They will be developed on PPP model through bidding process. These townships will be within 300 metre of Metro stations. They will ensure extra captive ridership of 80,000 per day on full development,” he added.
 
 The residential development proposed at Mihan depot is 30 lakh square feet. The quantum of residential development at Hingna depot is the same. Mahametro anticipates that about 12 lakh square feet would be sold every year 2017-18 onwards.
 
 The capital expenditure will be made by the developer. The long term lease will be up to 50 years. Mahametro will receive lease revenue upfront and/or on annual basis. The escalation of lease rental on annual basis.
 
 Meanwhile, work on the Zero Mile station Metro has started. Some 15,470 square metre land has been acquired for the station. It will have 2.8 lakh square feet residential space. The office and hotel space will be 0.2 lakh square feet. The station will have an area of 6.9 square feet. It will have a parking for 390 cars. The height of the building is 98 metre. 
 
