LUCKNOW: The Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences is all set to start  . “We have the setup and expertise and the licence to conduct transplant surgery is also obtained so we can start anytime,” said Dr Rakesh Kapoor. 

 Head of SGPGIMS’s CVTS department Prof Nirmal Gupta said, “Over 350 cardiac transplant operations have been performed in India and the procedure costs around Rs 25-30 lakh.   can provide the same at 50% the cost.” he added that over 20,000 of patients who could ill afford the surgery were from UP. 
 
 Cardiac transplant surgeon and Padmashri recipient Dr  , who had come to SGPGIMS to participate in the cardiovascular and thoracic surgery department’s foundation day on Saturday, said, “Over 1 lakh persons across India have end stage cardiac disease and need cardiac transplant but are facing financial constraints. The cost will come down only if public sector centres like SGPGI provide the facility.” 
 
 Prof S K Agrawal, in charge of cardiac transplant programme at the institute said, “A team of 15 fulfills the requirement and we can take up a procedure anytime after July.” He informed that in the beginning, SGPGI will depend for donor on King George’s Medical University. 
 
 Paediatric cardiosurgeon and SGPGIMS alumnae Dr Vijay Agarwal said, “Over 2 lakh children are born with congenital heart disease but only 50,000 are operated on. Reasons like lack of awareness and shortage of cardiosurgeons is to blame. A significant number of these kids can lead a fairly normal life after cardiac transplant,” he said.
 
 Organising secretary, Dr Gaurang Majumdar explained that end-stage heart failure involves weakening of heart muscles to the extent that its function to pump blood through the body fails. It also means that available treatments are not working. Disease and damage may both be responsible for it, said the doctor.
 
 Listing some known causes, Prof Gupta said, “Heart attack, viral infection of the heart muscle, high blood pressure, heart valve disease, heart defects present at birth, irregular heartbeats, high blood pressure in the lungs, alcoholism or drug abuse, chronic lung diseases, such as emphysema or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), enlargement , thickening or stiffness of the heart muscles and even anaemia. 
 
 
