KOLHAPUR: The district   is all geared up for the   of academic year 2017-18 under the Right to Education (RTE) Act, said education officer (primary) Subhash Chougule on Friday.

 He said the directorate of primary education earlier last week, had asked the department about the number of help centres that are going to be set up during the online admission process across the district.
 
 “The admission process is likely to start from next month. The department is committed to bring more admissions under RTE in the upcoming academic year,” Chougule said.
 
 It should be noted that despite having 3,190 reserved seats in 288 schools, the district education department had registered only 205 admissions for the 2016-17 academic year under the Right to Education (RTE) 25% admission quota.
 
 “Looking at last year’s statistics and poor response, we will be implementing special admission drives this year. Apart from regular help centres across schools for online admission system, the aggressive awareness campaigns will play an important role in this year’s admission process,” he said, adding advertisements through TV and radio along with that in the newspapers will remain the main agenda while campaigning for the admission process.
 
 “The detailed schedule is yet to be received, but looking at the current preparations, the admission process will kick off from next month only and unlike last year, it will be wrapped up soon,” he said.
 
 P D Surve, acting administrative officer,   (KMC) told TOI, “We will have a dedicated team to look after the admission process. It was found that parents find it difficult to fill in the online forms, this will also be looked after by the dedicated staff.”
 
 Sattappa Mohite, education activist, said the RTE admission system needs to be implemented properly across the district. “It has received poor response at the urban as well as rural areas,” he said.
 
 Under the RTE Act, economically and socially disadvantaged children, as well as those with disabilities, can be admitted in Class I or at the pre-primary stage of private unaided schools. These children receive free education including textbooks, and other facilities. 
 
 
