NEW DELHI: To the eternal gratitude of her parents, police cleverly used Facebook to trace a lost girl. “The girl contacted her parents once after eloping and then disappeared. We discovered that her close friend was in touch with her,” said a member of police team accredited with her finding. “We took the friend into confidence and started chatting with the   girl from her friend’s Facebook account and were able to convince her to share her phone number.”

 The girl was among the 77 children that police in Rohini’s Vijay Vihar reunited with their families in four months of hard work in 2016. TOI reported on this tremendous achievement in March and a month later on Tuesday, Delhi Police commissioner Amulya Patnaik awarded the Asadharan Karya Puraskar to the team comprising Rohini ACP Umesh Kumar, SHO Abhinendra Jain and trainee sub-inspectors Divya and Anuj for proving the number of unlocated children could fall drastically through zealous teamwork. “Many of the four lakh people in the area live in poor conditions and do not have the sources to bring up their children properly,” said Rishi Pal, DCP (Rohini). “This contributes to their children fleeing their homes. There are cases of elopement reported frequently too.”
 
 The data showed 34 males and 43 females had disappeared in 2016, of whom 22 males and 25 females were aged 13-16 years. Cops said most of the work was done in tracing those who had either eloped or had been kidnapped. “Initially families were reluctant to share details, but with time and timely counselling, we were able to get information that helped us rescue the youngsters,” said Pal. 
 
 When the family of a missing mentally challenged 15-year-old went through 60 hours of trauma, the cops used old-fashioned police work to end their misery. “On the third night after he disappeared, police asked us to come to the police station,” recollected Uchit Narayan Chowdhury, father of the missing Kushal. There he found his son in the company of a policewoman. 
 
 The women officers tactfully convinced parents to give them information. Interaction with relatives, neighbours, class mates and friends of the missing children often helped the investigators to zero in on the possible locations of the missing children. In some cases, children had lost their way home. There were older cases, where the teenagers located could not meet their parents who had moved from the area. Eventually, police work ensured even children missing since 2011 were reunited with their families. 
 
 The cops were able to end the mystery of another girl who was nowhere to be found for six long years. She had eloped at the age of 15 and gone to Lucknow to get married in a court there. “We were against our daughter’s relationship but accepted her on being reunited,” said Hemlata, the girl’s mother. “There is nothing we can do about the marriage, but we are grateful our daughter is back with us.”
 
