NEW DELHI: The   on Friday asked a double murder convict to surrender before it till the court examines if he was set free correctly, or due to a “typographical error” by Delhi high court.

 A bench of Justices A K Sikri and   refused to grant any relief to absconding convict   who killed a witness and father of another witness within a gap of one-and-a-half hours in 1999.
 
 SC was hearing petitions filed by Jitender questioning the high court for blaming his release to a “typographical error” and ordering his re-arrest. Another petition was filed by kin of the dead victims urging the court to put him back in jail.
 
 The apex court made it clear to the counsel of the absconding convict that he should first surrender only then it will consider his submissions or plea for bail. If instead he is nabbed by the police, the court said he may lose the chance of being heard for bail.
 
 Appearing for the victim’s kin, advocate   sought swift arrest of the convict who had not challenged his guilt before HC but only the cap of 30 years imposed by trial court in its decision. He said the surviving witnesses live in constant fear of their life and the trial court had correctly ordered that Jitender won’t be eligible to be considered for release before 30 years, a cap that was lifted by HC.
 
 In its last order in this case, an HC bench of Justices G S   and   had directed the Delhi Police commissioner to protect the witnesses and the complainant arrest of Jitender.
 
 HC had on February 14, 2017 first modified its December order by deleting two sentences of its judgment that said the convict be sentenced “to the period already undergone of 16 years and 10 months” and that he “be released forthwith if not required in any other case.” It said the order is being modified due to “typographical error.”
 
 It had also ordered Tihar Jail's Superintendent to take appropriate action against the convict and intimate the high court.
 
 However, since his release Jitender has been missing.
 
