VISAKHAPATNAM: Even as 2 million passengers travelled via   in the last calendar year, Hyderabad followed by Bengaluru, Delhi and Chennai are among the most favoured cities by air passengers from the port city in 2016.

 While 7.47 lakh passengers travelled on the Vizag-Hyderabad route, it was followed by 4.90 lakh passengers on the Vizag-Bengaluru and 3.58 lakh passengers on the Vizag-Delhi routes. Vizag-Chennai saw nearly 2.23 lakh passengers followed by 1.96 lakh on the Vizag-Mumbai routes.
 
 Airport sources said one of the major reasons for huge surge in traffic on these routes is the availability of low-cost carriers and also the journey being longer by alternative means of transport such as buses or trains on these routes.
 
 The huge traffic on Hyderabad and Bengaluru is attributed to the large number of people from north coastal AP as well as south Odisha working in these two cities, as per airline industry sources whereas the large number of public sector undertakings in the city is one of the major reasons for traffic on the Delhi route.
 
 Airline enthusiast   said, “The IT sector in Bengaluru and Hyderabad employs a sizeable population from Vizag. Also, as Vizag has limited international connections, many of the passengers travel to these cities to connect to international flights.”
 
 “Usually, the occupancy ratio on these flights are between 75 and 90%,” he said. Also, with direct non-stop flights introduced since mid-August last year, traffic on the Kolkata route has also increased drastically, he added.
 
 While Visakhapatnam Airport is currently connected to 14 destinations, he said there is a need for flights to Pune and Goa as the former is also known to have a large working population from, whereas Goa is on the holiday radar of Vizagites.
 
 “If we are booking tickets about three weeks in advance, then we can easily travel in a flight, which is cheaper than a train or an AC bus,” observed G Ramesh, who frequents between Hyderabad and Vizag. He said, “Instead of spending 12 hours on the train or bus, we can easily reach within 3 hours considering the flight time as well travel time.”
 
