PATNA: An Army  , his wife and two other personnel are under police scanner following the arrest of five con men on the charge of running a  .

 Munna Kumar, Rahul Kumar, Satish Kumar, Nitish Kumar Singh and Vicky Kumar were arrested from Shivala under the Shahpur police station area of Patna district on Saturday. A fake identity card of an ex-serviceman, Rs 3.48 lakh in currency notes of Rs 2000, a cheque of Rs 1 lakh, a Honda City car, an SUV, 17 debit cards and 13 cellphones were recovered from their possession.
 
 Police also recovered four thick gold chains and rings, together weighing at least 500gms, from the person of Munna, Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj said, adding the gangsters have revealed names of Army personnel as their accomplices who helped them secure jobs for youths in the Army in lieu of money.
 
 Talking to newsmen, Munna named a colonel whose wife took Rs 12 lakh from him in   two years back, promising help in recruitment of youths through her husband. “She reneged on her promise and also refused to return the money,” he said.
 
 According to the SSP, the colonel is a senior   officer in Bihar. He had lodged an FIR in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district on March 4 last year, alleging an unidentified caller had threatened his wife over phone, the SSP said and added police investigations later revealed it was Munna who had made the call to the woman.
 
 “Further investigations will unravel the truth... Call detail records of the arrested con men have also confirmed that they were in touch with two other Army personnel of   cantonment,” the SSP said, refusing to disclose the identity of these two personnel.
 
 The arrested criminals have told interrogators Munna had been running the racket for 14 years and had been jailed in 2004. Police sources further said a sum of Rs 3 to 5 lakh used to be taken from every job seeker.
 
 During the operation to nab these con men, police also stumbled upon a parallel racket to leak question papers of the Bihar State Service Commission examination scheduled on January 29. Admit cards and other documents related to this exam were seized from Rahul and Nitish.
 
 According to police, Munna is a native of Udawantnagar in Bhojpur district while Rahul and Vicky hail from Panapur and Madhurapur respectively in Vaishali district. Nitish belongs to Rohtas district and Satish to Shanicharasthan in Danapur.
 
 
