NAGPUR:Academicians strongly feel that central government must hike allocation in budget for education if the overall health of economy is to be improved. They cited Kothari Commissions’ recommendations where it was proposed to allocate 6% of GDP to the sector, so that it could reach every corner of the country, where 40% population is still illiterate. They even called on to make education free of cost for all citizens, at least till graduation.

 “There is still huge disparity in the education system where central universities are in good conditions while those run by the states are in dire straits. Most of them fighting the shortage of faculty and students, primarily due to financial crunch. There is an urgent need to constitute a central regulatory authority which would monitor the higher education system in states and remove discrepancies and also help them financially,” economist Vinayak Deshpande says.
 
 Senior academician Dr Vedprakash Mishra feels that post demonetisation, the government should reduce rates of education loans for the students and provide further relief to the taxpayers by hiking exemption in the taxes. 
 
 For some like ex-chancellors nominee  , the government should focus on providing employability to the youths pursuing general courses like BA, BCom and BSc. “These courses have no relevance in today’s date, as they didn’t help you to secure a job. Either, they should be supplemented with skill development courses or should be closed down. It’s high time the government should overhaul the education system.”
 
 Endorsing them, senior academician Anil Dhage strongly feels that the entire system needs to be streamlined and centre should act in that direction. “Besides, hiking budgetary allocation, political will is needed to implement the changes. The education should be made affordable for the masses and projects which were announced or in pipeline earlier should be expedited.”
 
 Even school education sector, which is not in good condition, particularly those operating in rural areas, need a big boost in form of funds and infrastructure, academicians believe. "In education, we build the most vital resource needed to make a country great — human resource. For this the government must provide adequate funds so that every aspect of this key sector is well funded,” Headmasters’ Association secretary   says.
 
 Agreeing with him, MLC from teachers constituency Kapil Patil says, government funding needs to be doubled to say the least. "Currently the central government allocation is around 2.5% to 2.8%, which is very less. To ensure that we provide quality education a minimum of 6% needs to be earmarked. Major provisions under Right To Education (RTE) can be fulfilled only if the funding is increased."
 
 Span Nehrotra, a junior college lecturer adds, "RTE provisions need to be extended at least till STD XII so that every child in this country is guaranteed a credible level of education."
 
 Shahid Sharif, founder of  , thinks that the state-central fund allocation system needs to be worked out properly so that the beneficiary is not affected. “We have seen instances of poor kids not getting quality education because requisite funds from government are either not reaching till the last mile or are being siphoned off."
 
 For some like  , founder-president of Maharashtra English Schools Trustee Association, school managements should be considered as equal partners in the effort to provide education for all. “I hope the central government provides the financial muscle needed to help every stakeholder play their part to the fullest."
 
 
