AHMEDABAD: Open any page of the Gujarati textbook for class X, the year in which   (GSEB) conducts examinations for more than 3 lakh students, and one can see errors ranging from mixed up long and short vowels, missing punctuation marks and uses of special diacritics while writing English loanwords.

 The scores of complaints, mostly from Gujarati language teachers and linguists, has forced the state government to rectify about a thousand errors in the textbook. The government authorities have already threatened to cut the remuneration of the proof readers, who are paid a hefty sum to ensure the textbooks are error-free.
 
 Senior officials of the   ( ) said that a massive exercise had taken place last year to make the class IX Gujarati textbook error-free. Now it’s the turn for the class X textbook.
 
 “A system is in place where the writers and subject experts review the draft of the textbook. The draft then goes to proofreaders, not once but thrice. After that, a CD of the material is prepared and is sent to experts before the book is printed. Despite such scrutiny, when one finds errors, one has to own up to the shoddy job,” said an official.
 
 A high-level committee has been formed to look into the matter and give the final verdict in seven to ten days. The relevant changes will be published on the board’s website and the schools will be asked to make the changes manually this year, before the new edition is printed, said officials.
 
 Nitin Pethani, executive director of GSBST, said that they are making all efforts to make textbooks error-free. “Review of the books was part of the exercise and we will rectify the errors in the next edition. An exercise to find errors in textbooks for classes IX to XII is also on,” he said.
 
 Sources said that state education minister  , has asked about progress in the matter and has instructed to withdraw or withhold remuneration for those found responsible. The persons concerned can also be blacklisted for future projects, the sources added.
 
