Transmitting scratchy, weak signals that sometimes go blank or catch more of the ambient noise than the speaker's voice, wireless handsets haven't really been user-friendly for police officers. Now chic, end-to-end encrypted digital wireless sets, procured at a cost of Rs 88 crore, could make crime-fighting easier.   will be among the first states to arm its police personnel with this communication device.

 The digital makeover is part of a Centre-state initiative to ensure police personnel are able to communicate accurate information fast and coordinate with larger teams. The technology puts police in the country on a par with their counterparts in developed countries. “It is true that a clear message makes the work of policemen easier and operations more efficient,“ said a police officer.The digital technology comes as a boon at time when easilyinterce ptible old wireless sets compromised operations.
 
 Motorola Solutions India Pvt Ltd is helping law enforcement agencies to make the shift from analog to the more secure digital systems.The company has set up a temporary control room in Maduravoyal and its personnel demonstrated how it works to   commissioner Karan Singha recently. As part of the demonstration, Motorola officials positioned an employee at Madura voyal and three oth ers in different cor ners of the city to show the extended range of the new handsets.
 
 Senior leader of pro ject engineering V S Natarajan, explain ing the features of the wireless sets said, “We are setting up temporary control rooms in all the cities and checking for quality. We have set up similar one at Rockfort in   for a mock test.“
 
 The company will distribute the digital wireless sets to all the 1,049 police stations in the state by the end of this year. For better coverage, temporary hubs will be set up at Pallavaram, Manali, Sembium, Avadi, Adyar and Vandalur. “The wireless user message will be received by the central control room at Maduravoyal, which will amplify and resend the messages to hubs concerned, so the responder can hear the voice clearly ,“ said Natarajan.
 
 The new system also allows sending of 126-character messages and photographs. “This is like an advanced mobile phone.The feature to attach photographs will be very helpful. For instance, any road safety violators' number plate and car can be photographed and sent across to other specified wireless sets immediately ,“ said a senior police officer. This system has been approved by the Association of Public Safety Communication Officials ( ) and is being used by countries like the US and the UK.
 
