LUCKNOW: The   under the scanner for allegedly going easy on criminals from Punjab in the   is likely to come out clean. Exactly 10 days back, on September 19, the state government had instituted an inquiry against the officer who heads and commands one of the special forces of UP police.

 Some media reports had appeared in Punjab suggesting that the said officer and his team had taken money to release the   case accused who had taken refuge in different parts of UP after nabbing them from western UP. Since August, security agencies in UP have been smoking out criminals responsible for Nabha jailbreak and arrested at least six of them. Gopi Ghanshy ampur was among the wanted criminals hiding in UP.
 
 However, controversy erupted when Gopi's accomplice in Nabha case, who is also on the run, posted a message on his Facebook timeline about money exchanging hands. Subsequently, the anti-terrorist squ ad of Punjab police arrested  , alias Pintu, a Congress leader from Sultanpur. Punjab police had intercepted a conversation between Tiwari and the accused in which name of the said officer had cropped up.
 
 Additional director general of law and order Anand Kumar was asked to probe the entire controversy on September 20. He visited Amritsar jail to interrogate Pintu and two more accused arrested from UP. DGP   said that he received the report on Thursday . “I have not examined it yet,“ he added.
 
 However, it is learned that the probe officer went through the officer's call records and found that he had not made any call to Pintu or the said criminal. It also could not be verified if Gopi or some other criminal was indeed arrested and later let off. Moreover, the three accused lodged in Amritsar jail denied that any money had exchanged hands.
 
 “It appears that some people have acted with vested interests to defame the officer .Information had been leaked selectively and we are trying to identify who that person was. Some police officers are also under the lens,“ said a source involved in the probe.
 
