 NEW DELHI: India is closely watching China’s growing influence over Southeast Asian countries. Although India has undertaken infrastructure and capacity building projects in these countries over the past three years, under the   government’s Act East Policy, experts warn that massive Chinese investments under its ‘One Belt, One Road’ initiative may create political and economic instability in the region, impacting India. 

 Chinese investments are aimed at not only regional connectivity but also ideological hegemony, with countries such as   and Laos increasingly getting drawn into its sphere of influence, said one of the experts, who did not wish to be identified. 
 
 Cambodia, Laos, Indonesia and Myanmar are planning to attend a meeting on   being convened by China on May 14-15. Certain reports suggest that Vietnam’s top leader may, however, skip the meet given the lukewarm political relations between the two countries. 
 
 China is constructing the North-South Transport Link from Southern China to the Southeast Asian countries. According to the Asian Development Bank, Southeast Asian countries need huge investments in energy supply, transportation, telecommunication, water capacity and sanitation to keep pace with their economic growth and growing populations. 
 
 With infrastructure development, especially railway networks, requiring big-ticket investments, China’s economic prowess makes its political ambitions achievable, experts from India and Southeast Asia said. However, increased economic relations have not yet translated into a deeper security cooperation between China and many Southeast Asian countries. 
 
 According to many Chinese commentators, these countries will take money but not sign up to the political, cultural and security requirements of China’s vision of a “community of shared destiny”. Singapore, Vietnam and Myanmar are a few such examples. 
 
 Singapore emphasises on a rules-based global order amid China’s claims in   region. Tensions are high between Myanmar and China over Chinese funded dam and port projects in the country. Vietnam has had lukewarm political ties with China for decades and China’s aggressive moves in South China Sea have sharpened the divide. 
 
 Indonesia and Malaysia are increasingly getting uncomfortable over this as well, notwithstanding the fact that China is undertaking several infrastructure related projects in both these countries. 
 
 Experts warn that Cambodia may be heading for a Sri Lankan type debt crisis situation. Cambodia, one of China’s closest international partners and diplomatic allies, is truly under China’s economic and political influence. 
 
 Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen recently described China as Cambodia’s “most trustworthy friend”. Similarly, Chinese President Xi Jinping described Cambodian King Norodom Sihamoni Cambodia “like a brother” when he visited Beijing in June 2016. China is now Cambodia’s largest military supplier and provider of development aid and foreign investment, having given nearly $3 billion in loans and grants to the country since 1992. 
 
 A 2016 International Monetary Fund report showed that Cambodia’s external multilateral public debt is now at $1.6 billion, while its bilateral public debt with China is $3.9 billion. While Cambodia and Sri Lanka are different in terms of their geographic location, demography and nature of strategic relations with China, there are some crucial lessons that Cambodia and other small countries in the region can learn to avoid ending up in Sri Lanka’s position.
 
 Cambodia needs to diversify its borrowing sources and consider taking loans from multilateral bodies and countries such as India and Japan, experts said. Cambodia will also need to diversify its foreign policy to include other countries and regional initiatives such as ASEAN and Mekong Ganga Cooperation, experts said. 
 
 China’s influence in Cambodia is growing in tandem with increasing loans. This is evident in Cambodia’s decision to ban the Taiwanese flag from being raised in Cambodia. This could be true for other countries in India’s periphery as well including Maldives. 
 
 Maldives has leased an island close to Male airport for 50 years at the cost of $4 billion to a Chinese company, a development that could have adverse strategic implications for India. China has been eyeing opportunities to help build infrastructure in Maldives to expand its footprint in the Indian Ocean Region as part of the One Belt, One Road project.
