CHARMINAR: Several land parcels, allotted to other government departments by revenue authorities in the  , are stuck in legal tangles. Information obtained though RTI by researcher   shows that even land allotted to the police is not free from court cases. 

 The case in particular corresponds to the land parcel of around 400 square yard allotted to the Chandrayangutta police station in the area of the same name. The documents show that the land parcel was first classified as ‘patta’ land and later declared as ceiling surplus land.
 
 But the information furnished also reveals that the case of the police station is not an isolated one. There are 12 similar cases. These include other land parcels allotted for utilisation under the  , one of the flagship schemes of the  . The documents show this land parcel to be in Ghouse Nagar. 
 
 While a 10,000 square metre land parcel allotted to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) near the Mairaj Function hall in the same mandal has a pending court case, those alienated to the  , National Academy of Construction and for housing too share the same fate. Meanwhile, another set of data shows that three complaints of land grabbing and encroachment of government land have been recorded by the revenue authorities. These are at survey number 303 to 306 in Kandikal village, survey numbers 53, 55 and 56 at Khalsa village and Town Survey Numbers 1, 8 and 17 also of Kandikal village.
 
 Speaking to TOI, the activist said that while only three cases have been registered, there are many more such cases of encroachment and land grabbing in the Bandlaguda mandal which go unnoticed. “People are unwilling to come forward and lodge their complaints against those who have encroached or those who have indulged in land grabbing. The government needs to be more proactive in land protection,” he said. 
 
 Pointing out the lackadaisical approach of officials towards protection of these land parcels, the activist said that when asked for a total number of land grabbing cases and encroachments, officials replied that the information was not readily available. “It took me nearly four months to get this data,” Ansari said.
 
