

 BHUBANESWAR: For years it has been known as the ‘sorrow’ of Odisha. For years this great river, which, according to history, finds mention in Ptolemy’s works, has had a love-hate relationship with Odisha and its people. For years it has inundated its banks and caused massive damage to life and property. And yet, it is also this river which has been Odisha’s lifeline, the source of sustenance for millions and the source of a major political battle of late.
 
 The Mahanadi is caught in a political turf war between Odisha and Chhattisgarh. Until 2009, when the BJP was in power on both sides of the divide — in Odisha, it was in partnership with the BJD — the fight had not commenced yet. But over the past couple of years the battle lines have been firmly drawn and the growing schism between the BJD and the BJP has only made it worse.
 
 The turbulence rose to the surface in June this year when Odisha started objecting to the over-exploitation ofMahanadi waters by Chhattisgarh.
 
 Till 2013, the Naveen Patnaik government had maintained that Chhattisgarh’s projects would not affect the flow of the river in Odisha. But that was all in the past. Changing political landscape meant the BJD was in no mood to ignore the Mahanadi issue.
 
 And this year it reached a crescendo — from street protests, meetings and rallies to moving the Supreme Court against the Chhattisgarh government.
 
 But what forced the Naveen government to change its tune? Experts feel that political considerations apart, the government seems to have realised that a diminished water flow to Odisha could seriously jeopardise its industrial dream apart from affecting irrigation.
 
 Like Chhattisgarh, Odisha too is banking on its water resources, besides huge reserves of coal and iron ore, to attract investments to the state.
 But so far it is the Raman Singh government which seems to be winning the early rounds. Over the past couple of years, the Chhattisgarh government has been aggressively pursuing projects on the river for industrial use.
 
 
  
 In January, the Raman government sanctioned Rs 3.94 crore towards the security of the Saradih barrage in Janjgir-Champa district, the hub of activities on theMahanadi, in the heart of Chhattisgarh, where several existing and proposed power plant sites are located.
 
 Chhattisgarh has inked an MoU with NTPC for drawing water for the upcoming Lara super thermal power plant from Saradih barrage, work on which was completed in March. Next month it approved Rs 162.43 crore for construction of the Shivrinarayan barrage in Navagarh block in the same district for industrial use.
 Last year, the Raman government approved the Basantpur barrage at an estimated cost of Rs 255.55 crore for industrial needs of Bamhdih block under Janjgir-Champa. Six industrial barrages planned in the last five years have a completion deadline of 2017. This apart, four major, three medium and 305 small irrigation projects, several diversion projects and 125 anicuts are under various stages of construction in the neighbouring state.
 
 Chhattisgarh plans to increase its Mahanadi water usage to 27.48 million acre feet from the existing 8.31 MAcFt which, experts feel, may reduce the flow of water into Hirakud. The water usage plan is more than what entered Hirakud even during the monsoon season between 2005 and 2015. The highest was 26.55 MAcft in 2014. In 2015 (a drought year), 13.24 MAcft water reached Hirakud, less than half of Chhattisgarh’s usage plan.
 
 “The threat is definitely real. But the reason Naveen government raised the issue this year seems to be purely political. It found Mahanadi a handy weapon to 
 capture people’s imagination when it was bogged down with issues such as malnutrition deaths in Nagada and killing of innocent tribals in Kandhamal,” says Ranjan Panda, a water rights activist and researcher on theMahanadi.
 
 Lingaraj Pradhan, a farmer leader who was among those who had spearheaded a movement way back in 2008 against the overuse of the river water by the Chhattisgarh government, says, “The way Chhattisgarh is progressing, Hirakud reservoir may not even get filled during monsoon in case of scanty rainfall.”
  
  
 The river is directly and indirectly linked to the lives and livelihood of more than 50% of the state’s population. “We are very clear that Chhattisgarh is overexploiting the river without caring a hoot about Odisha’s interests. Unless this is checked, people in Odisha will be severely affected,” says Prasanna Acharya, BJD Rajya Sabha member who in August headed a fact-finding team to Chhattisgarh to take stock of its projects on theMahanadi.
 
 Rejecting the Centre’s suggestion for a joint control board, as per a 1983 agreement, Odisha has filed a suit in Supreme Court seeking an injunction against 
 Chhattisgarh to stop all construction activity on theMahanadi and has also approached the Centre for a tribunal under the Interstate Water Dispute Act, 1956.
 However, when the tribunal starts hearing the case, the state may face a somewhat similar accusation — that of diverting water from the Indravati river through the Indravati dam to coastal Odisha instead of allowing it to flow to Chhattisgarh. How Odisha tackles that problem could play a key role as to how it safeguards its interests when it comes to the Mahanadi.
 
