CHENNAI: Latur in Maharashtra battled the worst ever drought last year as 'water trains' had to be brought in to ferry thousands of litres to the  . Such a calamity could paralyse the country's southern states this year unless the governments take steps on a war footing to conserve water, warn experts.

 Conservation through harvesting and recharging groundwater are the lessons waterstarved states teach their drought-affected counterparts even as experts emphasise on discouraging farmers from carrying out cultivation of waterguzzling crops like sugarcane during such challenging times.
 
 The depleting water levels in major reservoirs in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu have caused concern over the crisis in these states. While several parts in the four states have already been declared `drought-hit', experts have suggested measures to save the available resources for the coming months.
 
 Former   (CWC) chairman A B Pandey said states must begin conservat ion of water.“Drought-hit states must calcu late the avail ability of wa ter and start the process of reducing sup ply so that the existing amount lasts till June at least,“ he said. Noting that Latur woke up to the crisis only at the fag end of it because of which things went out of control, he said, “It is necessary for the drought-affected states to kickstart conservation plans including in farming.“
 
 The desert state of Rajasthan has succeeded in implementing conservation of rainwater to meet the requirements during summer. The concept of saving every drop of rainwater is helping to improve the ground water level in a big way , said Sriram Vedire, chairperson of Rajasthan River Basin and   .
 
 He told TOI over phone that groundwater recharge structures were created in 295 blocks of the state. “We carried out multiple recharge measures in different parts of the state, which has varied landscape of deserts and plains. Concrete structures were constructed beneath the surface in desert areas to allow the water to percolate deep into the ground,“ he said, adding that 50 blocks had been removed from the red zones of water scarcity after the programme was launched in 2015.
 
 Pointing out that the Rajasthan model could be emulated elsewhere, Vedire, who is also the advisor to the Union water resource ministry, said it was the need of the hour in southern states facing drought.
 
