A   post of a Delhi resident,  , brought to light a horrific incident at the Worlds of Wonder (WOW) amusement park in Noida when a man allegedly fell off a ride called Feedback after the safety harness around his shoulder snapped. According to the FB post, the accident left the man severely injured. Astha, who was sitting in the second row of the ride behind the man who got injured narrated the entire incident in her post dated June 27. She wrote, "We witnessed a man fall from a great height and this has left us traumatised and concerned about the safety of such rides. While the ride was running, in the first flip of the ride, the shoulder safety harness opened and a man fell off the ride, hitting his head an iron step on the way down. We sat right behind the man, and the same would have happened to me if it had flipped again. I was hanging off her seat, but she somehow managed to help me (sic)."

  
  Astha Jain's post on Facebook
 
 
 When we got in touch with Astha, who recalled how even after the accident, the ride didn't stop for 15 minutes and once it was stopped, "people were hanging in the air for 45 minutes." She tells us, "I went with four of my cousins and the seating arrangement on the ride is such that four people can sit in one row. While the man who got hurt was seated in the front row, I was sitting just behind him. It was within a few seconds when the ride started and gained speed that the safety harness around his shoulder broke and the man fell from his seat and landed on the bushes below. Even my shoulder harness came off, but thankfully there was another latch, which I held on to. But it was really scary, I thought I would be the next person to fall. Everyone on the ride saw the man falling and started screaming to stop the ride. The man's wife, who was waiting near the swing, was pleading the operators to stop the ride. Despite that, the ride continued and when it finally stopped, we were hanging in the air for over 45 minutes, helpless."
 
  She adds, "After getting off the ride, some people rushed to confront the operator, but he ran away. The manager came after some time to say that it was just a technical fault and the man suffered 'minor' injuries."
 
 
  
  (@worldsofwonder/ picture for representational purposes only)
 
 
 Astha adds that the man's family called the ambulance and that the police also come along with the ambulance, "but they treated it like a minor thing." However, when we contacted the SHO, Sector 39, Noida, they said they had received no formal complaint in this regard. 
 
 
  
  The amusement park's reply to Astha's post
 
  
 Explaining their part of the story, Worlds of Wonder replied to Astha's post after almost a fortnight. They wrote, "In light of the recent event that occurred at   in Noida, we would like to inform you that no one was seriously injured or suffered any severe injuries. We just got aware of this post and hence responding to it. As a responsible brand, who has worked tirelessly to provide millions of people with unique memories over the past 10 years, we always keep our customers' safety first. We have immediately taken all the necessary safety measures and ensured close monitoring at our end to avoid an incident as this to happen again. We have ensured that the individual who was affected by the incident was given due treatment and care immediately. And confirm that his condition is favourable. In such situations of emergency, there is a due procedure to bring the ride back to its normal position. There are no emergency breaks added to such rides, due to the size and speed of the ride. The procedure we follow is to engage the emergency switch, by which the ride loses its thrust and because of pendulum motion, it takes the time to come to a halt. Only after it comes to a halt that we can bring people to the ground. Also during such free flow of the ride, the electro pneumatic system ensures the seat safety is intact, which is an automated protocol to ensure no further damage to anyone (sic)."
 
  
  
 
  When we contacted the management of WOW, they told us that no one was seriously injured and that they have set up a team to investigate the error. In a statement, they said, "No one was seriously injured or suffered any severe injuries. We have taken all the necessary safety measures and ensured close monitoring at our end to avoid an incident as this to happen again. We have ensured that the individual who was affected by the incident was given due treatment and care immediately. And confirm that his condition is favourable. All the rides installed are imported from some of the world's most renowned manufacturers and impeccably safe, powered by electro mechanical/ hydraulic/ pneumatic safeties. However we are extremely concerned of the incident and have immediately activated the manufacturer, a team from Italy has been working closely with our team on ground towards error finding and non-repeatance of such incidents in future. The safety of our guests is of and has always been of paramount importance. All the rides are timely (daily/weekly/fortnightly/monthly) checked and certified annually after performing factory checks by the world's most renowned safety standards agency. Besides all the technical checks following the said standards, each employee operating/ controlling the rides are certified and are fully powered to handle any situation of emergency."
 
  
 However, it's not a one-off case in NCR. In 2011, a 26-year-old woman's scalp ripped off when her hair got entangled in a go-cart motor in a Rohini park. In 2015, a teenager, who had joined his friends for a fun outing at an amusement park at Alipur in north Delhi, drowned at the park's crowded swimming pool with no one apparently noticing that he was in trouble. 
 
  
  
 
 --With inputs from Niharika.Lal@timesgroup.com
 
 
