DARJEELING: Dressed in branded jackets and trousers, people of various age groups, from 15 to 50, have started roaming the streets of Darjeeling between 10pm and midnight with their faces covered in   with umbrellas, they bang on doors of shut shops, raid houses of shop owners and even stop cars on the road --all in quest of food.

 As the all-party meeting headed by   on Thursday extended the indefinite strike (called on June 13) by another 12 days (till the next meeting on July 18), residents of Darjeeling have allegedly started   in search of food.
 
 “I support Gorkhaland but at the same time I need to feed my family . The rice drum has almost emptied and there is very little oil, dal and vegetables, not even enough to last two days. I know some shops have stocked rice and wheat but they are not selling us anymore. So, I am on the road to find what I can manage,“ said Pramod Rai (name changed), who has a foreign exchange shop in Darjeeling.
 
 There are others like Sanju Tamang, a cook at a hotel on   and a resident of Zakir Hussain bazaar who leaves home every night around 9pm with an empty sack, a torch and an umbrella and knocks outside every single shop that he finds illuminated under the shutters. “I buy whatever there is on offer from cold drinks to peanuts and keep stocking it. But the real problem is that there is acute shortage of grains, which no one is ready to sell,“ he said.
 
 Hours after the all-party meeting at Pedong, around 20 kms from Kalimpong, TOI spotted a group of around 150 men and women at Chowkbazar around 10.30pm on Thursday demonstrating before three policeman, one of them a senior officer. The group was demanding food. The officer, on condition of anonymity , said three days ago he had arranged for some grains from his home and had given it to seven youths whom he had spotted running from one shop to another. On Thursday , seeing him on night round, the group approached him again. When he said he did not have so much resource at home and asked for their names and phone numbers, they began to demonstrate.
 
 “I had asked for their phone numbers and names so that I could call them whenever I manage the food. But they thought I was taking their details to arrest them. I will speak to the district magistrate regarding the issue,“ the officer said. Darjeeling DM Jayashi Das told TOI: “What can I do if people don't help me. The strike supporters have threatened that they would kill the ration shop owners if they open shops.“
 
 GJM leader and MLA Amar Rai, however, said: “We will try to make arrangements for ration, food and other things of daily requirement for the people as early as possible.“
 
