Delhi's  , with its greenery and picturesque ruins, is quite popular with filmmakers, with movies like 'Chak De! India', 'Fanaa' and the upcoming '  2' being shot there. However, film shoots in this heritage garden don't go down well with green activists, as the team of ' ' discovered the hard way. Recently, an environmental activist protested against the film’s team shooting in Lodhi Garden, and claimed that they were violating the guidelines laid down for shooting in the garden.

  
  The team of 'Munna Michael', including   and Nawazuddin Siddiqui, shooting in the city earlier this month (BCCL)
 
 
  
 However, the NDMC says that filmmakers are given an NOC to shoot in Lodhi Garden only after they sign a statement saying that they will abide by the guidelines. Officials also said that they will send an inspection team to look into the matter. An NDMC official tells us, "Filmmakers have to pay a fee to the NDMC and sign a letter saying that they will abide by the guidelines before getting an NOC to shoot in the garden. These guidelines state that the team will not do anything that could possibly harm the environment, they will not create a nuisance, or smoke and drink in the area. The crew must also finish shooting within the specified time and clean up the whole area after they are done. Keeping NDMC areas clean is our responsibility, and if someone has flouted the rules, it will be taken seriously."
 
  
  
 
 
  When asked if the NDMC appoints an official to ensure that the film crew doesn't flout any norms, the official says it is the responsibility of the guards on duty to ensure that, and no extra official is appointed for it.
 
 
  
  Tiger and Nawaz shooting for 'Munna Michael' in Delhi
 
 
 
 
 In his complaint, the activist, Suhas Broker, said that he found high-voltage wires and lights being used by the 'Munna Michael' team, and that could harm birds and other animals. However, line producers tell us that their equipment can't cause harm to any animal. Binny, a line producer, says, "I have shot a number of films and advertisements in the garden and we make sure to not cause any damage. There are no high-voltage wires, but only cables used for connecting equipment and the gensets are also sound-proof. Before starting shooting in gardens, crew members are briefed that only those who are needed for the shoot should be present on the spot. We also ensure that we don't damage any plants."
 
   , a line producer who recently shot for 'Fukrey 2' in Lodhi Garden, says, "When shooting in any garden, our technicians are instructed not to have cables near trees. We don't damage nature while shooting – that is the condition on which we get an NOC from the NDMC."
 
  
 This is not the first time that green activists have complained about film shoots. In 2002, the Supreme Court rejected a PIL filed by Green Circle, an NGO, and Lodhi Garden Morning Walkers Association to stop shoots in the garden. The court said that film shootings promote tourism and give publicity to monuments. However, despite this, not many films are shot in Lodhi Garden, since it requires permissions from a number of agencies, including the Archeological Survey of India (ASI). After 'Fanaa', 'Chak De! India' and 'Cheeni Kum' were shot there in 2006-07, 'Munna Michael' and 'Fukrey 2' are the next big films to shoot in the garden. Apart from a few documentaries and advertisements, not many films got approval to shoot there. Sonam Kapoor-starrer 'Aisha' also didn't get permission to shoot in Lodhi Garden.
 
  Talking about the permission process, Kishan says, "It's true that getting permission to shoot in Lodhi Garden is an uphill task. We need permission from the ASI, NDMC, Delhi Police and other agencies. But the situation has improved in the last year or so. Now, the NDMC is working to shift the permissions process online, and last year, the I&B Ministry set up a FFO (Film Facilitation Office) to help filmmakers get permissions."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  Line producers also say that the joggers and regular visitors at Lodhi Garden, mostly retired bureaucrats, don't like the disturbance that shoots create. Kishan says, "We try to shoot in secluded locations because we also don't want the attention, but when a particular location is required, we sometimes have to tell joggers to wait till the shot is done."
 
 
  
  'Fanaa' and 'Chak De! India' are among the films shot in Lodhi Garden
 
  
  
 
 
 
