This was an   which served the downtrodden. Its   including its principal personally went house-to-house to convince slum dwellers to send their children to their school. A group of   worked errands in their country to raise funds for developing the  .

 However all this would soon be history. As today, after 32 years, the   at Anepalya on Hosur road is on the verge of closure. The management -- Baldwin Methodist Education Society that also runs the Baldwin girls and boys schools -- has asked parents to collect the transfer certificates of their children and handed over termination letters to the teaching staff who have been given the option to relocate to the schools in North Karnataka.
 
 The management said that due to paucity of funds to run the school, decline in student strength and bad results, there is no option but to close the school.
 
 While members of the community, former teaching staff, parents and NGOs that supported the school have petitioned the management to change its stand, there seems to be no hope.
 
 The school which has classes from nursery upto SSLC in state syllabus was primarily opened for children living in the nearby slums in 1984 as a Kannada medium private primary school.
 
 Majority of those living in these slums are migrant labourers from the minority communities. The school obtained government recognition as LR Nagar School, later to be renamed as Methodist Kannada School and more recently as Baldwin Methodist Kannada School. Subsequently, government recognition was obtained for middle school and high school. In 2007-08 there were more than 850 students, but the strength started to decline and currently it stands at 250.
 
 It was during the tenure of its former principal N Shashikala that saw the school do a turn around. The science teacher who taught in Vijaya high school on RV road for 28 years, joined this Kannada school.
 
 “I visited the LR Nagar slum and saw the pathetic living conditions of the residents. All my life I had taught in a prestigious school and I wanted to use that experience to atleast make children come to school. I approached the school chairman to give me an opportunity. I was the principal but mainly I donned the role of a counsellor for the kids,’’ fondly remembers Shashikala who was a part of the institution for seven years.
 
 In early 2000, an NGO had a student exchange programme from Netherlands, where a group came down to the city, stayed in the slums. The students went back to their country, did errands and collected around Rs 20 lakh as earnings. This was sent to the Kannada school and building construction work was taken up.
 
 Thomas Paul, associated with the school for 17 years, says the management with two “rich” schools (Baldwins) under its belt, subsidised education for its poorer cousin. “More than education, our school has been teaching them how to live and cope with tough times,’’ says Paul.
 
 The school manager Mathew George, said while just about Rs 2 lakh is collected through subsidised fees annually, the expenditure comes upto Rs 45 lakh. “There are many other government schools in the area that provide better facilities than us. We have given an option to teachers to take a transfer to our schools in north Karnataka,’’ George said.
 
 
