NAGPUR: Ever since Prime Minister   banned Rs500 and Rs1,000 notes, political discussions in the city have been revolving around it. But whether this will be a factor in   ( ) elections is a million dollar question.

  has emerged as the top party after three rounds of municipal council elections in 2016. It increased its seats threefold as compared to 2011. There is no unanimity among political analysts as to whether   had a positive impact on voters or whether it was not a major factor at all. While political leaders in the city claim that it will be a big issue, citizens have a divided opinion.
 
  president Anil Kilor said that it was difficult to say whether demonetisation would be an issue in the elections at all. “Except the business class, city dwellers did not face too much inconvenience. Moreover, many people think that note ban was a nationalist move. I don’t think it will have any impact, positive or negative, in the elections, on the whole,” he told TOI.
 
 High Court lawyer Tushar Mandlekar said that those who had suffered because of demonetisation might vote against BJP. “However, if BJP emerges victorious, it will claim that note ban has people’s support. The local body elections are not the right platform to judge demonetisation’s support. It will be known after the results of assembly elections in five states are out,” he further said.
 
 Political scientist Anjali Gaidhane said that demonetisation would certainly affect election expenditure. “However, since these are local elections, the corporators will matter and not national issues. It is their public contact and development works done by the party, or lack of it, that are most important. However, demonetisation will certainly have some impact on voters’ choice,” she added.
 
 Another political scientist however, feels that as the coming municipal elections have four corporators in one ward, the political party is more important than individual corporators. “As people will vote for the party, demonetisation will have an impact,” he said.
 
 Politicians claimed that note ban would help their party. Vikas Thakre, leader of opposition in NMC, said that small businessmen and workers in unorganized sector had been badly hit by the note ban. “Naturally, there are against the move and will vote against BJP. The middle class also suffered a lot due to demonetisation. Contrary to the government’s claims, the big fish did not face any trouble at all. All these factors will go in favour of  ,” he added.
 
 Mayor Pravin Datke and city BJP President Sudhakar Kohale also said that demonetisation would affect people’s choice in the NMC elections. However, they feel that it would help their party. “People wholeheartedly support note ban. If we were going to win 100 seats before it, now we will win 125 seats. The results of municipal council elections are a clear indicator,” he said. Kohale also said note ban would help BJP in a big way.
 
 Ex-Congress minister Nitin Raut, however, chose to differ. “I don’t think demonetisation will have any effect on BJP. The party is flush with funds while we don’t have any money,” he said.
 
 
