DABOLIM: Fairly new, the   came into existence following the delimitation exercise before the 2012 polls and was formed by adding parts of Cortalim and Vasco to Dabolim. The constituency’s first MLA was Mauvin Godinho, who moved to the constituency from the neighbouring Cortalim constituency post the delimitation before the previous assembly elections. 

 This time Godinho will contest the elections on the   (BJP) ticket. However, there was slight resentment against Godinho among the BJP cadre, who were opposed to his being inducted in the party on the grounds of his political track record and, additionally, because Parrikar had filed corruption cases against him alleging a scam in power subsidy case. Godinho was the power minister at the time.
 
 Others contesting from the constituency include, Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party’s (MGP) Premanand Nanoskar, Congress’ Francis Nunes, Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Vasant Naik, Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) Kritesh Gaonkar and Niz Goenkar’s Suresh Barve, besides three independents — Tara Kerkar, Kenneth Silveira and Pritam Teluskar.
 
 In 2012, Godinho was elected on the Congress ticket, despite the strong anti-Congress wave sweeping the state at the time. Nanoskar, then MGP-BJP alliance candidate, came close to upsetting Godhinho’s apple cart, reducing his winning margin to less than 1,000 votes. There were rumours that a group of BJP supporters had voted for Godinho. 
 
 This time around, observers say that the BJP has a strong base in Dabolim, which is one of the main reasons why Godinho joined the party. “Post the 2012 polls, he saw that the BJP’s chances of winning the Dabolim seat were good. In the 2012 polls, he didn’t know he would win by a small margin, which is why he made pursued efforts to join the BJP, though his kith and kin were not very supportive,” said a close supporter of Godinho’s. 
 
 On the other hand, BJP did not have a strong candidate in the constituency and it worked for them to develop good relations with Godinho. For the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, Godinho worked for the BJP candidate, present MP Narendra Sawaikar, at the request of then chief minister and present defence minister  . His detractors alleged that he had formed a ‘B’ team for the BJP within the Congress. 
 
 During BJP’s tenure in government if any Congress MLA reaped maximum benefits, it was Godinho. As a reward for his pro-BJP work, he was made chairman of the South Goa Planning and Development Authority (SGPDA), replacing Cuncolim BJP MLA Rajan Naik. 
 
 Godinho said that Dabolim had witnessed massive developmental works to the tune of over Rs 500 crore during his tenure, adding that his vision for Dabolim was to make it a model constituency in the state. “The people will give the receipt of my developmental works in the ensuing assembly election.”
 
 Dabolim MGP candidate Nanoskar did not want to join the alliance with BJP for the 2017 polls, and after the breaking of the alliance, his team and he have been working zealously to oust Godinho. They appear to be getting the backing of some former BJP supporters.
 
 As for the Congress, the party has fielded a diehard worker, Nunes, who has the support of the party’s grassroots workers. The AAP is also making its presence felt in the constituency. Godinho, sources say, has an edge, but it remains to be seen to what extent the resentment among the cadre will help the MGP.
 
 During BJP’s tenure in government if any Congress MLA reaped maximum benefits, it was Godinho. As a reward for his pro-BJP work, he was made chairman of the South Goa Planning and Development Authority (SGPDA), replacing Cuncolim BJP MLA Rajan Naik.
 
