NAGPUR: The controversy surrounding CPM leader Sitaram Yechury’s cancelled event at Nagpur University refuses to die. Now, the head of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Chair,  , has accused vice-chancellor SP Kane of passing the buck on him to save his skin.

 Kane had issued a show-cause notice to him last week, asking why he failed to take prior permission for the event. In a detailed reply, Aglave charged the VC for continuously changing his stand and making him a scapegoat for the entire fiasco. Earlier, Aglave had charged Kane of acting under pressure to cancel the event.
 
 “Initially, he said the event was cancelled due to unavoidable circumstances. When the issue was highlighted in the national media next day, he changed his stand and blamed me for the mess. Earlier too, we had organized 10-12 similar programmes without permission. But he never said objected. All these events were orally discussed and no documentation was ever made. I don’t know from where he suddenly took out the issue of taking written permission,” the upset HoD told TOI.
 
 He asserted that the VC obviously acted under pressure, else there was no other reason to cancel the event at the eleventh hour. “When they conveyed me the decision to cancel the event, I warned them of serious repercussions. But they took it lightly. It was only after facing flak from all quarters next day that they came out with the petty reason that I hadn’t taken written permission,” Aglave said.
 
 “How is it possible that such a big event could be conducted without his permission. I had detailed discussion with him before finalizing dates and the guest,” he added.
 
 Even Yechury blamed the VC for buckling under the pressure of right-wing activists to cancel the event.
 
 The event on the same topic was then organized on the same day at Deekshabhoomi-based  , where Yechury delivered the lecture.
 
 NU officials also questioned the VC’s stand on how MP Mohammed Salim was invited for a national conference at humanities department without permission and how he and pro-VC Pramod Yeole shared the dais with him. The MP’s name was not even mentioned on the invitation card.
 
 
