Her excitement is clearly palpable. She is enthusiastic about answering questions, is never short of words and at one point even jovially told a unit member who interrupted her, to provide space by retorting, “naanu interviewli idini... yeradu nimsha, bartini”.
 Ashika is television’s latest entrant and she is thrilled about her first full-fledged stint on the small screen. And the newbie is clearly basking in all the attention because the newbie steps into the late Rachana’s shoes in the serial   after the latter’s unfortunate demise in a recent accident.
  The girl in question,  , has until now only played a small part in the serial  . Thus, having recently got the chance to be a part of Triveni Sangama as full-fledged actor is her moment of glory. Following the recent unfortunate demise of  , Ashika has replaced the late actor in the serial.
  “I have always been a huge fan of Rachana and used to religiously watch all her serials, especially  . When I was told about the auditions for Triveni Sangama, I didn’t know it was for the part of Rachana. It was only on clinching the role was I told that I had stepped in to replace her. I was both stunned and thrilled when I got to know of this,” she states. She explains that it was mixed feelings because she was stepping into a role that was previously played by someone she had much adored, but at the same time, the opportunity was a challenging one for her.
  “Of course, initially I was little worried about audiences reaction because they have seen Rachana play this for a long time. But it’s been two weeks since I went on air with this role and the feedback has been extremely encouraging.
  In fact, on the sets, I am constantly told that my mannerisms are like her and my audiences tell me that I even resemble Rachana. It couldn’t be more gratifying than that. I hope I do justice to Rachana by playing this character well... It is my ode to her,” sums up Ashika.
  
  
  Did you know? 
  Ashika is a trained Hindustani singer and that was also one of the reasons she loves being associated with Triveni Sangama, which is a musical!
