NEW DELHI: The high court on Wednesday told authorities not to demolish buildings at   till the   (HCC) takes a call if these structures need to be preserved under the category of ‘modern heritage.’

 “HCC is meeting on February 2. Let it decide whether the buildings at Pragati Maidan are to be put in heritage list or not. If it finds that the buildings there cannot be declared heritage, then it’s end of the matter. The petition seeking its protection will be decided on merits,” Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva noted while hearing a plea in this regard.
 
 The court pointed out that the HCC at its meeting is likely to take up lists for consideration of buildings to be put under ‘modern heritage’ category and noted that “we should wait for outcome of the committee.” It fixed the matter for hearing on February 6. HCC is a committee set up for protection of heritage buildings, precincts and natural features in the capital.
 
 HC was hearing a plea by Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) seeking protection of 62 buildings, including Hall of Nations and  , which it has identified as modern heritage.
 
 INTACH, in its plea, has alleged “complete abdication” of responsibility by HCC and   (DUAC) to protect the city’s “contemporary architectural heritage”.
 
 HCC in turn told the court that the list of 62 buildings, which includes India International Centre, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU),   ( ) and Sri Ram Centre for Performing Arts and Crafts Museum, has no sanctity as it keeps getting updated.
 
 ITPO had urged the court not to interfere with the proposed demolition, saying the Rs 2500-crore project would be a good development for the city. Batting for demolition of the buildings in Pragati Maidan, it submitted that the project was approved at the highest levels, including the PMO.
 
 It had said under the project, an international exhibition and convention centre with a seating capacity of 7000 and parking for 4800-5000 cars would be built in the 123 acres where Pragati Maidan exists and once it comes up the G20 Summit would be held there.
 
 
