NAGPUR: The issue of   is being politicized in India which is unwarranted. Islam considers triple   to be a sin and provides better alternatives like Talaq-ul-Ahsan (single utterance) which is the most approved, natural and flexible method and has a scope for reconciliation, said Mohd Saleem, general secretary of   (JIH), Delhi.

 Saleem was speaking at a public meeting organized by JIH to mark the conclusion of a fortnight-long nationwide awareness campaign on Muslim personal law at Eidgah Ground, Jafar Nagar, on Sunday. Shariat is a way of life and cannot be rewritten in the name of social reforms, he said. “Some people assume Muslim personal law to be different from Shariat whereas the former is a part of the latter, exclusively dealing with personal issues like marriage, divorce and inheritance,” he said.
 
 People amended their religious rules over a period of time as they were man-made and required corrections. But Shariat is flawless and applicable to all eras as it is bestowed by the Almighty himself. People who portray Shariat’s image as a weapon to exploit women are far from quranic literacy and need to be educated, Saleem added.
 
 Explaining the subtle method, Mufti Sabir, Ahbab Colony’s Imam, said if marital dispute is not resolved after the intervention of elders from both parties, the husband can utter talaq once and wait for a grace period of three months. Man and wife have a chance to reconcile within this period, post which they need to marry again for staying together. They can reunite anytime in life, he added.
 
 Abdul Wahab Parekh, member of   said pronouncing triple talaq in one sitting ruptures the relationship with no scope for reconciliation. He exhorted people to not resort to this ‘evil practice’. Of all the rules that an Indian Muslim follows, 95% are constitutional and merely 5% are personal laws, said Parekh. 
 
 Convener of the campaign Azhar Warsi said in India the ratio of divorce is the least among the Muslims even when the process is verbal.
 
 Imam Tauqeer Qasmi said Islam was a beacon of women’s emancipation as it put full stop to all evil happenings against them. They were given equal rights and their quality of life improved.
 
 The jamaat went door-to-door, reaching out to all sections of the society with an aim to protect Shariat law and enlighten Muslims on the code of conduct for marriage, divorce, inheritance, maintenance and adoption.
 
 
