BENGALURU: Banknotes are one of the most frequently exchanged objects and yet many of us don’t wash our hands after handling them. To cleanse contaminated cash and prevent the spread of deadly infections, a techie has come up with a novel solution — microbiocidal silver nanoparticle coating on currency notes. 

 A brainchild of  , the coating uses the antimicrobial properties of silver nanoparticles to disinfect the notes. Rejani, who has specialized in medical nanotechnology, is yet to commercialize her invention and is planning to talk to the government soon. 
 
 “Currency notes are exchanged by people from all walks of life. One wouldn’t hesitate to pick them up from a trash can too. There isn’t a single place on earth where a banknote has not travelled. From bankers, homemakers and butchers to doctors, paupers and children, a note changes many hands and is laced with every existing germ carrying microbe. People hardly wash their hands after touching contaminated notes, which results in skin and gastric disorders, respiratory diseases and other ailments,” she said.
 
 Rejani explained: “I used normal paper for the research and found silver nanoparticle coating acted successfully against several disease causing micro-organisms like Staphylococcus aureus, E coli and pseudomonas which infect notes. Due to its anti-microbial properties, since ages silver has been used to make jewellery, water storage vessels and medicinal applications to heal wounds. Now, it has another use.” 
 
 Rejani, an employee of Wipro and an M tech holder from   in Thanjavur, was inspired by a news article on the infections currency notes can transmit. “I felt the need to come up with a disinfectant. That’s when I chanced upon the idea of anti-microbial currency notes and took up the research for my MTech project under the guidance of my professors,” she said, adding she studied the anti-microbial properties of silver nanoparticle of various sizes and shapes.
 
 Rejani found that silver behaves differently when in bulk and when in the form of nanoparticles. “When the particle size decreases, the surface area changes and so does the reactivity. Hence, nanoparticles acquire special physicochemical properties. Silver is already established as a potent anti-fungal, antiviral and antibacterial agent. When broken down into nanoparticles, it becomes even more efficient and effective against at least 12 species of micro-organisms,” she said.
 
 Plan to approach government
 
 Currency notes are government’s property and cannot be tampered with. Any research can be done only after approval from government authorities. I would like to seek the government’s help and conduct a study using actual currency notes. The coating should involve a low-manufacturing cost, and should be financially viable, environment friendly and durable.
 
 Rejani Krishnankutty, employee, Wipro 
 
 Major source of pathogenic agents
 
 Paper currency is a potential public health hazard when associated with the simultaneous handling of food. It can lead to the spread of bacterial nosocomial infections, commonly known as hospital-acquired infections. Banknotes recovered from hospitals may be highly contaminated by Staphylococcus aureus. Salmonella species, E coli and S aureus are commonly isolated from banknotes exchanged at food outlets. Even human influenza virus, norovirus, rhinovirus, Hepatitis A and rotavirus can be transmitted through hand contact
 
 Dr  , senior consultant physician, Manipal Hospitals
 
