NAGPUR: Another goof up by the   officials on Tuesday, left over 3,000 law faculty students baffled. After realizing the folly, NU exam section officials immediately withdrew online results of first semester from its website, where it had earlier declared a majority of students failed. 

 The results of first semester exams was uploaded on NU’s website on Monday evening. Most of the students were shocked when they were declared failed despite the fact that they scored over 50% marks collectively in theory and practical/internals, as per new rules.
 
 NU evaluated their answer books as per old rules where there was an individual passing in theory and practical/internal exams and they required to score 45% in both.
 
 Senior NU officials told TOI that NU Academic Section failed to inform them about amendments made in the direction for granting marks. The officials from Academic Section also failed to upload the new amendments on its website, despite the fact that faculty’s   (BoS) had cleared the rules in August last year. “After we received a host of complaints pointing out the blunder, both from the teachers and students, we withdrew it immediately. It would take about a couple of days to re-release the results,” they told TOI.
 
 Admitting the blunder, deputy registrar Anil Hirekhan, looking after the charge of Academic Section, said that the new amendment in the marking pattern was cleared by vice chancellor   on Friday under special powers vested with him under Section 14. “After it was cleared by BoS, it was pending with the Academic Council. It was later cleared by the VC, but was not yet uploaded. After the issue cropped up, I had forwarded the amendment to the exam controller Neeraj Khaty. I had a talk with NU Dr   principal Shrikant Komawar in this regard,” he said.
 
 Endorsing him, Komawar said, they had cleared the new rules in August last year and even published them in their syllabus. “I received several complaints from our students today. Ideally, they should have evaluated the answer books as per new rules which were implemented long back. There seems to be some technical problem which they said would be rectified soon,” he said.
 
 Surprisingly, pro-VC Pramod Yeole said they had never notified the new rules and therefore, there was no question of any blunder taking place. He attributed the withdrawal of results to ‘technical snag’. “The rules came into force only when those were cleared by bodies like faculty, BoS, and Academic Council. However, it was yet to be cleared by the council and hence can’t be notified. The students are under some confusion. The change in rules can’t be applied retrospectively, those would be applicable from summer exams only,” he clarified. 
 
