HYDERABAD: You’ve heard of  ? The 22-year-old corporal of the   had become an   last year after being noticed for his drop-dead   So much was the interest in the entry-level cop at Changi airport that the authorities were forced to put out information about his identity and even answer queries from women fans.

 Lee Minwei might have propelled to fame for his handsome airs, but the respect that he and other cops in several foreign countries earn is because of the job they do. On the other hand, police constables in India are hardly given respect, with many associating ungenerous attributes of corruption and incompetence with them.
 
 The difference of public perception of police officers in India and countries like US is vast despite the fact that the qualification required to get these jobs is the same. A high school diploma is enough for an entry-level officer job in the US police force. This is equivalent to the SSC or Intermediate qualification requirement for constable jobs here. Once in the force, US officers can climb the ladder to become detective sergeant, lieutenant, captain, major/deputy inspector, inspector and deputy chief.
 
 “I have seen the respect the police get in the UK and other countries,” Cyberabad police commissioner   told TOI. The constable even at the lowest rung of the ladder gets respect from the public. Apart from the educational qualifications, the police is also required to have ‘honesty, integrity, determination and flexibility.
 
 “If a constable gets his due abroad, it is due to the fact that the police as an entity deliver services. The standard procedures are adopted and perfected. That is enough to earn the respect of the public,” Sandeep Shandilya said.
 
 The pay scales too are a factor that play an important role in how lower-rung officers behave while dealing with the public. Unless several of these gaps in the system are fixed, a revamp of the police force is a far-fetched dream.
 
 But the fact that a large number of men with high qualifications are getting into the police force is being welcomed by senior police officials. They, however, wonder if all those who join will stay put in the force. Candidates with high qualifications keep appearing for competitive exams and when they get better jobs, they choose to quit.
 
