RANCHI: The state government will allot   under its possession to   willing to set up their units here.  ,  , mines and geology department, on Thursday said the government has identified approximately 1 lakh hectares of non-cultivable land in possession of various state government departments. 

 The new decision comes as an alternative for the Das government to create a land bank to woo investors. The government's efforts to acquire land for industries have been mired in controversies. The state currently has a land bank of 1,500 acres.
 
 "We have identified non-cultivable lands because they are easily available with us and they are being transferred to   Industrial Area Development Authority (JIADA). We have already allotted some to those who have approached us. It is also free of problems," Burnwal told media persons in Project Building on Thursday. 
 
 With less than a month to go for its maiden global investment summit in Ranchi, the industries department also acknowledged that land acquisition continued to remain a problem in mineral-rich Jharkhand but several initiatives like digitization of land records are being done to ease the process. 
 
 The industries department said seven ministers of the Union cabinet including Arun Jaitley, Rajnath Singh, Venkaiah Naidu, Piyush Goyal, Smriti Irani, Jayant Sinha, Sudarshan Bhagat and Nirmala Sitharaman will be present in the two day summit, which will be held in Ranchi's Mega Sports Complex on February 16 and 17. 
 
 Besides the Union cabinet ministers, ambassadors from 25 countries are expected to be present alongside trade and commerce delegations from Sudan, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Afghanistan and China. Burnwal said invitations have been sent to chief ministers and chief secretaries of every state. Besides ministers and foreign delegates, the heads of front running corporate houses like Reliance, Tata Sons, Jindal, Adani and Ruia Group have also been invited.
 
 The state government said preparations are going on for the summit. Three state of the art conference centres, VIP lounges, media centres and meeting centres will be commissioned in the Mega Sports Complex. Three national flags will be put on 100-feet high flag masts at the Project Building, summit centre and the airport. The state capital will be given a clean look and all approach routes to Khelgaon will be repaired and improved. 
 
 The state government is also conducting meetings with various trade and commerce bodies, auto-rickshaw and taxi driver associations to seek their cooperation in presenting a 'positive image of the state' to investors during the summit, Burnwal said.
 
 
