BHOPAL: When Bhopal-Khajuraho 'Mahamana Express' (22163/22164) set out from platform Number 6 of Bhopal station on Thursday, the maiden run of new train, it marked fulfilment of a long-pending demand. Railways minister Suresh Prabhu flagged off the train through video conferencing from Delhi. The train pulled out of Bhopal station 30 minutes behind schedule on the first day. 

  Congratulating railway officials and passengers, the railway minister said the aim of the train was to promote tourism." He said tourists had to take a longer route via Delhi to reach  , but this train would give them facility of direct connection with the temple town. Minister of state for cooperatives Vishwas Sarang, Bhopal MP Alok Sanjar and DRM Shobhan Choudhary were present at the inaugural programme. 
 
  Sanjar said, "We have been waiting for the day for long. The introduction of Bhopal-Khajuraho Mahamana defines development of  . Habibganj station will soon be also a world class railway station. We have requested another train from Bhopal to Pune. I hope we will get that too. 
 
 "I have requested the railway minister for shifting Bairagarh station in Bhopal division. The request is under consideration and it will also be fulfilled soon," the MP said.
 
 However, due to delay in putting tickets online, the new rake with 14 coaches: nine second class chair car, one AC chair car, two general coaches and two SLRD coaches (for physically handicapped) had just 63 passengers in second class and 23 passengers in AC coach from Bhopal.
 
 Passenger Somesh Aggarwal, a student of MBA, said, "I was excited about the new train and my excitement doubled when I was among the first ones to travel by this train. When I sat at my seat, it got blocked due to which I changed my seat and found another which was vacant."
 
 Another passenger Rajesh Kumar, a private firm employee, said "I was very excited about the travel and also felt lucky to get the window seat in such a fine. But jammed window came as a big disappointment. After trying to open it many times, I gave up."
 
  On Thursday, The actual time of the train to leave Bhopal station was 3:10 pm, but due to delayed inauguration ceremony, the train left the station at 3:45 pm. Jitendra Purohit, Train Ticket Examiner, said "It's a historical day. According to norm, I will have to write on the chart that the train got delayed by half an hour from its source on its first day." The train will reach Khajuraho by 10:20 pm on Thursday. 
 
  From Saturday, the train from Bhopal will have a daily run and start at 6.50 am and reach Khajuraho at 1.30 pm. From Khajuraho, the train will leave for Bhopal at 4:15 pm every day and reach Bhopal by 10:55 pm. 
 
