AHMEDABAD: Their bows cost more than their house. There is no showcase at their home for their growing collection of gold and silver medals. Their spartan life doesn’t deter them from dreaming to compete at the international level. Meet Archana, 18, and Pinal Suvera, 15, tribal girls from a village near Bhiloda in Aravalli district who have triumphed at state and national archery competitions. 

 They are the daughters of  , a daily wager from   village. Their talent belied their background and they were picked up by the   (SAG) in a camp two years ago. 
 
 Since then they have been supported by   which they attend. Their bows, each costing Rs 2 lakh, were sponsored by the teachers. Now the girls are waiting for a coach to take them to the next level.
 
 “Archana was selected in a camp organized by the SAG at her school,” Suvera said. “Prashant Pandwala, a coach from the SAG, trained her after which she emerged winner in the junior category and went on to represent Gujarat in the national school games in 2015. There she won gold.” Suvera earns only Rs 150 daily. He said that without the support from the school, the girls could not have managed to get the proper gear. “It’s our dream to see the girls participating in the international arena and making the village proud,” he said. The family has seven members, including three girls and two boys. Archana, who started college at Shamlaji last year, said that the first coach had come from Rajasthan and helped her for two years. 
 
 “We have contacted various authorities and we have been assured that they are trying their best to find a coach,” she said. She aspires to be a police officer.
 
 She won two gold medals at a Jabalpur tourney two years ago. Her sister grabbed gold in both individual and team categories at an Indore meet last year. Father Matthew Parapuram, the school principal who was instrumental in getting the archery gear for the girls, said that their enthusiasm and talent motivated the school to collect funds. “It is also important that the girls complete their education,” he said. “And thus we are scouting for a good coach to work with them here.”
 
 
 
 
 For past few years, the state’s sports authorities have focused on the tribal belt of Gujarat to nurture archers. Many tribal communities traditionally have a good command of the weapon. Two state-run institutes and a private academy hone archers’ skills. The tribal youth have also participated in a number of national events.
 
