SURAT: Is Neera, a sweet extract tapped from palm tree, safe for consumption? An   has locked horns with the   ( ) to make public the laboratory test results of Neera sold in the city during the winter season.

 RTI activist Rajesh Modi had sought information two months ago from the civic body on the health benefit of Neera, the most popular drink among Surtis during the winter season. Modi sought to know about the contents and mixtures through the laboratory testing and inform the public at large whether it is healthy to consume or not. 
 
 The sale of Neera starts with the commencement of the winter season. There are couple of shops run by   selling the drink, whereas there are many individuals selling the drink on the roadside in every nook and corner of the city. 
 
 Residents, usually relish the drink in the morning, as they believe that Neera becomes todi, if consumed after noon.
 
 Following continuous reminders, the SMC’s health department took samples of Neera from three areas including Adajan, Rander and Khatodara. The samples were sent for laboratory testing at Rajkot. While the reports of two samples, as per the health department, is awaited, the first report suggested the drink was ‘safe’. 
 
 Talking to TOI, Modi said, “There is no harm in making the test reports public. Just saying that the samples are ok, doesn’t serve the purpose. People actually want to know about the contents in the Neera.”
 
 Modi added, “If the Neera juice is purely extracted from palm tree then it is good for health, but if it is just a sugary juice then it could harm many lives, especially those suffering from diabetes. I don’t understand why the civic body is shying away from making the test results public.”
 
 According to Modi, he is soon going to approach the state health department for making a thorough investigation into the Neera juice contents.
 
 “The samples are passed in the laboratory testing. This means that Neera juice available in the city, especially at the gram udhyog sanghs stalls are safe,” said a SMC health officer. 
 
 
