Thanks to a growing craze among students to join the engineering, medical and IT sectors — which employ nearly 60% fresh graduates every year — there are a few takers for   subjects in the southern states including Tamil Nadu, despite an increasing demand for pure science graduates in the field of research and development (R&D). Experts say the Central government’s scholarships and schemes to encourage the study of pure science have elicited lukewarm response in Tamil Nadu due to a lack of awareness among students on the scope of the field. 

 "The number of takers for pure science   from southern states has dropped in the past 10 years compared to that before 2005," says an IIT professor.
 
 Jalaja Madan Mohan, head, technical coordination and public awareness, Indira Gandhi Centre for Atomic Research says most of the students who take up science courses at the department of atomic energy (DCE) hail from states like Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal. "The rat race to be engineers and doctors in TN is a factor why we don’t see many students taking up pure sciences. Another factor is the IT sector that offers students jobs soon after graduation." 
 
 Unlike the myth that pure sciences offer few lucrative avenues, experts say the scope for those studying science subjects is extensive today. Graduates for instance can get employment in state and central research organisations, work in the R&D wings of private and public sectors or pursue a career in academics. 
 
 "There are several avenues for pure science graduates at the DCE. We constantly require candidates with a science background for research, especially in the field of physics. In the eligibility criteria, we don’t stress on the candidate’s expertise in nuclear engineering. Instead, we offer one-year orientation on nuclear technology to the hired candidates," she says. There are two methods of making it to the DAE - either by scoring well in the graduate aptitude test for engineering (GATE) or by taking an exam conducted by DAE followed by an interview.
 
 Indrapal Singh, a chemistry professor at IITM says that in fields like chemistry, there are opportunities in both the research and development industry and the academia. "Being an inter-disciplinary field, Chemistry has several applications. One can find a place in an automobile industry where there is use of polymers," he says.
 
 Despite the poor response to science subjects in the south, Singh says there is a growing awareness among students in major cities to take up pure science as an academic career. "Nearly 45% graduates pursue their PhD from Indian institutes, while nearly 20% go abroad." 
 
 Besides, the Centre in the past few years has been supportive towards students pursuing courses in pure sciences. INSPIRE (Innovation in science pursuit for inspired research), a programme launched by the Union department of science and technology in 2008 aims at motivating students to pursue a career in pure sciences. 
 
 "The scheme operates at five stages. The first two stages are at the school level. The first level is a project expo which is to kindle the spark of innovation among kids" says P Kandaswamy, a fellow at the National Science Academy. "In the second stage, we organise a five-day residential camp for students of Class XI and XII where we invite Bhatnagar awardees, scientists and senior professors to interact with them," he says. 
 
 INSPIRE offers scholarship for candidates at the UG, PG and doctoral levels, which form the stage three and four of the scheme. "In stage five, the best of the lot in stage four is selected through a national level test. The selected candidates get an opportunity to work with a university or a research institute for five years. At the end of the fifth year, the candidate is absorbed by the university or the institute."
 
 When the INSPIRE scheme was implemented in 2009-10, only 12 candidates applied for the scholarship in stage three. "Of this only nine were eligible. The numbers have grown over the years. But, we wish to see at least 500 people from TN getting the scholarship every year," he adds.
 
 
