NEW DELHI: Rising Pune Supergiant sealed a stunning comeback win against Gujarat Lions with   recording a maiden century in Match 39 of Indian Premier Leaguematch on Monday. RPS recovered from 42/4 on the back of a superb unbeaten 63-ball 103 from Stokes to chase down 162 with five wickets remaining at the Maharashtra Cricket Association Stadium in Pune.

 Here we surmise the thriller in five points:
 
 
 
 Ishan Kishan kept his place at the top despite the return of Dwayne Smith and he maintained the faith of his captain with a brisk knock. With Brendon McCullum for company, Kishan was aggressive against the pacers. But it was McCullum who hit the first two fours of the GL innings with a cut through point and a steer to third man using the pace of Jaydev Unadkat in the first over. After a watchful start, Ishan came into his own, pulling Unadkat for a six and then used his feet to the maximum effect against the spin of Washington Sundar to move to 23 with a four and six off consecutive deliveries. The returning Ben Stokes was given a cold reception by McCullum and even the introduction of legspinner Imran Tahir didn't plug the leakage. Two more fours flew from the bat of Kishan. GL were running away with the initiative but Tahir struck for Pune as Kishan got an outside edge that went into the hands of the short third man fielder. He was out for 31 off 24. Pune had finally got the breakthrough but the youngster had played his part in giving GL the start they would have wanted.
 
 
 
 At no 3 walked Suresh Raina and his search for a second run proved disastrous with the wily MS Dhoni disturbing the bails before the GL captain could make his ground despite an average throw from the deep. The departure of Raina brought the destructive McCullum and Aaron Finch together. And they didn't let the intensity drop. The run flow continued as Finch thumped Dan Christian for a four and swept a googly from Tahir over midwicket for a six. But the old fox was to have the last laugh. He cut down on pace, bowled a bit short luring Finch into playing early. The result was a leading edge that calmly settled into the hands of the bowler. And then he bowled a googly next ball, Dwayne Smith failed to read him and was bowled for a first-ball duck. GL had a healthy run-rate of 9.4 but were four wickets down by 10 overs.
 
 
 
 There was a time when it looked that GL will certainly post a total in excess of 180. Despite losing quick wickets, the run-rate was kept over nine thanks largely to McCullum's 27-ball 45 and then for some period, by Ravindra Jadeja. McCullum was out in the 12th over and Jadeja fell off the final delivery of the 15th over. After that, the hopes of a big total relied on Dinesh Karthik who tried valiantly but the regular blows at the other end thwarted his effort. In the final five overs, RPS bowlers kept the lower order quiet with clever change of pace which also fetched them wickets. In the final 30 balls, GL batsmen mustered a paltry 26 and lost four wickets to be bowled out for 161. Unadkat and Tahir finished with three wickets each.
 
 
 
 When GL batted in the Powerplay overs, barring the final delivery of the fielding restrictions it was pretty much one-way traffic. However, when it came to RPS, the Powerplay was brimming with action. The new ball pair of Pradeep Sangwan and Basil Thampi struck early with the scalps of opener Ajinkya Rahane, captain Steve Smith and Manoj Tiwary. Rahane and Smith fell to Sangwan in the first over and Tiwary was trapped lbw in the second. The home crowd was stunned into silence as their team had lost three wickets in the space of nine deliveries. The regulation chase of 162 now seemed monstrous. Wobbling at 11/3, Stokes decided to counterattack. He drove and pulled effectively to reach 25 off 17. The total was 43/3 in 5.2 overs. The big-hitting allrounder had somewhat lightened the sombre mood in the Pune dugout. But he was himself left aghast when his partner Rahul Tripathi suffered a brain-freeze midway through a second run that saw him stranded in the middle of the pitch. A direct hit from Aaron Finch did the rest. Tripathi was run out for 6 and after the end of Powerplay overs, RPS were 43/4. 
 
 
 
 The partnership between Stokes and Dhoni was the key if RPS were to win. After a slow start, Dhoni was steadily coming into his elements. Ankit Soni was done with his quota of fours overs in which he had allowed a measly 16 runs. A pull over midwicket for a six allowed Dhoni to free his arms. Stokes then clobbered Dwayne Smith for a six and four in the next. But then RPS lost half their side after Dhoni holed out at long-off in the 17th over. The job to take the team over the line fell entirely on the shoulders of Stokes. The equation was 44 off 23. Runs were flowing steadily. Thampi, who had bowled three overs for 18 runs and took wickets came in for the penultimate over. A cramping Stokes changed the game in it. Two sixes made the total loot from the over to 17 runs and whittled down the requirement to just eight from the final six balls. Stokes was suffering but he brought up his maiden IPL century in style with a four off the first ball. His partner Christian then unfurled a six over square leg to seal a stunning five-wicket win. Stokes remained unbeaten on 103 off 63 with seven fours and six sixes.
 
