NOIDA: At least three mega infrastructure projects in the city will be completed by June-end,   officials told industrial development minister   on Thursday.

 Once complete, the projects, which include a multi-level parking facility in Sector 18; additional bridge flanks across the Shahdara drain near Kalindi Kunj; and an   on Master Plan road-II, will provide commuters respite from frequent gridlocks in the vicinity, officials said. The Sector 18 parking facility, costing Rs 168.35 crore, is 80% complete. The bridge flanks on the Shahdara drain cost Rs 50.33 crore and 69 % of the project is done. The cost of the elevated road on MP road-II, meanwhile, is Rs 415 crore and is 95% complete.
 
 Nearly 63 projects costing more than Rs 5 crore, which are to come at a total cost of around Rs 2,500 crore, were reviewed by   at the Noida Authority office on Thursday. “I have reviewed the projects and their status, and have directed officials to expedite the completion of projects as they affect the common man,” he said.
 
 “Three projects will be completed by the end of June and opened to the public from July 1. These are 80-95% complete. The remaining two of the five under-construction projects will be completed by December 2017. Also, an underpass at the NTPC crossing near sectors 24, 25A, 32 and 33A will be ready by January 2018, while a multi-level car parking facility at the   station will be in place by May 2018,” he said.
 
 Officials have been asked to fast-track an under-construction parallel bridge near Kalindi Kunj, which has missed several deadlines. “This project will be completed by December 31,” a senior official said. “Another long-delayed project, an underground double-basement parking facility at Sector 16A, will also be completed by the same date.
 
 Mahana told TOI that projects proposed by past governments, which have no logical use, will be scrapped. “I believe that many projects are useless from the public’s point of view. I have directed officials to review each proposed project before starting construction,” he said.
 
 
