Thiruvananthapuram: With the number of   cases rising in the city, the corporation has come under fire for failing to initiate activities to check the spread of the epidemic. Health secretary Rajeev Sadanandan who made a surprise visit to the   on Wednesday came down heavily on the civic body, but was silent on dengue outbreak at the hospital which is under the health department.

  “The situation is much worse in the city corporation area than in other places. Even while other cities were affected by dengue on a minor scale, they were able to handle the situation effectively and eradicate it. But the response by Thiruvananthapuram corporation has been very poor. If things are going ahead in this pace, the situation will surely go out of control,’’ said Rajeev Sadanandan.
 
  He also inspected the premises of general hospital where staff have been diagnosed with dengue. One hospital employee had died last week. Around 50 hospital employees including 10 doctors were diagnosed with dengue.
 
 According to hospital authorities, the lack of cleaning staff led to the situation. Around 25 vacancies in the post of cleaning staff remained unfilled for the past several months. At present, 30 employees work in three shifts. There are ten persons per shift. Vector control measures were not carried out in the hospital and the premises became a breeding ground for mosquitoes.
 
  Sources also attribute the poor vector control to administrative failure. The new superintendent took charge around 45 days ago, but the post was remaining vacant for almost three months before that. The absence of senior officials including a deputy superintendent on long leave made the situation worse. 
 
 The doctors at the hospital said senior administrative officials were not responsive. Although many doctors were diagnosed with dengue three months ago, no action was taken. 
 
 “We made repeated requests to authorities for the last six months and warned them about the impending danger. The administration section is very weak and management and authorities are responsible for this situation to a great extent. Last day, the ceiling and plaster in Ward-8 fell on top of the doctors during OP. We have been reporting about the condition of the building for a long time and the authorities will take a decision only after the collapse of the building,’’ said one of the doctors who works at the hospital.
 
 Mayor V K Prasanth however said that dengue eradication needs collective effort and it was meaningless to blame each other.
 
 
