It was in 2015 that Tina Fey stripped down to her body shaper on the David Letterman show as a special farewell to the popular talk show host. When Letterman complimented Fey on her dress, she — ever the consummate comedienne — commented that he had no idea how she’d rigged up for the dress. Calling her   “contraptions” and “almost medical”, she went on to show how celebrities tuck and fold those obvious body flaws aka love handles. 

 Shapewear can make you look slimmer and sleeker in a cocktail dress, work clothes, or jeans and a T-shirt, now even saris. It can also be used for sculpting a la Kardashian-Jenner clan that swears by the   technique for slimming. Today, everyday shapewear has gone beyond the complicated contraptions that Fey used to wrangle herself into a dress. Fashion entrepreneur and image consultant Sheena Agarwaal says, “Shapewear today has become a part of regular dressing. With tank tops, tummy tuckers and all sort of shape enhancers in the market, it’s no longer used on need basis.” 
  
 
 
 If you’ve tried shapewear earlier, you’d be surprised how it has changed over the course of time. A decade ago shapewear was badly constructed, following the corset formula to wrangle the fat. It was too tight and too uncomfortable – sometimes making it difficult to breathe. Today, it is relatively comfortable – from ultra to light slimming. But relative is the operative word here because as a rule of thumb, shapewear is not supposed to be comfortable – celebrities like Fey, Adele, Kim Kardashian and Viola Davis have talked about its vice-like grip. But the best bit, Agarwaal says, is targeted shapewear where you can choose the spots you want to wrangle in – thighs, butt, stomach, or multiple areas.
 Before picking up shapers, make sure your size is right. “Buying a size too big fails to solve the purpose and a size too small will suffocate you,” Agarwaal says. Do ensure that the shapewear does not ride up and create contours you don’t want. 
  
 
 
 If you are looking to wear shapers to work, Agarwaal advises on picking a bodysuit – full or half. They immediately give you a thinner silhouette. But wearing it daily is a commitment that 
 requires you to be a little uncomfortable, as bathroom breaks will become a task. While celebrities layer it up for special red carpet situations, it’s at best left to them, as plying on the shapewear can actually cause nerve or organ compression. 
 If you are looking to start a shapewear wardrobe, start with basics first – a mid-thigh shaper and a slip dress. Then, go on to specialised underwear that gives you butt lifts. Bottomline: Choose the shaper according to the shape you seek.
 
  
  
 
 Robin Wright wears her shaper even when off-duty; Tina Fey (left) stripped down to her shaper on TV; Kim Kardashian layers up two pairs of body shapers; Kylie Jenner snapchatted her butt-pad equipped shapers some years ago and swore by them)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Although shapewear is available online, it’s good to try on different brands and styles at a shop. This way you know what works for you best. 
 
 
 
 If you are buying it for a particular dress, carry it with you so that you can try it on. What needs to fit well is the hip and waist – be sure of those measurements.
 
 
 Shapewear can smooth out lumps and give you a sleeker silhouette, it can’t take you down a size. Using shapewear to size down can actually result in bulges, and it can be uncomfortable.
 
 
 
 Shapewear is not meant to be comfortable but that doesn’t mean a vice-like grip. In fact, too-tight shapewear may lead to health problems like nerve compression.
 
 Modern-day shapewear comprises smart bodysuits or spandex compression garments that lift and tuck, as the case may be.
 
