BENGALURU: Ramesh Babu, who runs a luxury cab business in the city, ordered the swanky Mercedes Maybach from Germany, only for Aero India 2017. It cost him a bomb — Rs 3 crore. The vehicle is booked out for all five days by foreign delegates coming for the event, at a daily rent of Rs 60,000.

 “I have over 70 luxury vehicles, including Mercs, BMWs, Jaguars and Audis, which are all booked for Aero India. The rent is between Rs 15,000 and Rs 20,000 per day per vehicle. The Rolls Royce and Maybach are costly (Rs 60,000 per day) but still booked completely for the event. This is one of the best Februarys I’ve ever had in terms of business,” he says.
 
 And this is just a glimpse of what the second largest aero show of the world means to tourism development in Bengaluru. Over 300 premier class vehicles and 1000 mid-segment SUVs, owned by various luxury cab owners in the city, are booked for the extravaganza in the skies.
 
 Radhakrishna Holla, general secretary, Bengaluru Tourist Taxi Operators Association (BTTOA), said the whole month is good with a number of global events happening, but Aero India is the most awaited. “This is one biennial event which involves the crème of the industries in the defence sector, from various countries coming to Bengaluru. We prepare for it and this year, business is expected to touch Rs 5 crore by transport delegates. The first two days of the event are most crucial because requests are still pouring in for February 14 and 15,” he said.
 
 Many luxury vehicles registered in Delhi will be brought to Bengaluru to ferry high-profile guests. “These vehicles have started arriving in the city and paying entry tax to the transport department for 10 days, which also enriches the exchequer.”
 
 Post demonetization, February 2017 is a good month for the city’s hotels, though Aero India as the money spinner. Almost all   in north and central Bengaluru are booked up with guests from 51 countries. Although star hotels -- Taj Vivanta in Kempegowda International Airport premises and Yeshwantpur, Sheraton Grand, Shangri-La, JW Marriot etc -- are hosting delegates, they are taking extra care on sharing information because of security concerns.
 
 Shamira Ajani, director of communications at Shangri-La in Vasanthnagar said, “We are the single largest luxury hotel in the city, with almost twice the number of rooms than other five-star hotels. We are completely booked for Aero India. Both decision makers and performers have chosen to stay at Shangri-La. It is popular because of proximity to the venue and addition of various dining and relaxing avenues at the hotel. The concierge service is arranging cultural events and city tours, apart from pick-up and drop facilities for guests through the week-long event. Guests can relax and rejuvenate with the golf course right behind the hotel and proximity to Bangalore Palace.”
 
 Vikalp Raj from JW Marriot Bengaluru said, “We have a fully packed hotel next week. Most of the guests are with 644 companies associated with the defence sector and they are tightly scheduled. So we are not arranging any city tour or cultural events in the hotel, but we customize schedules for guests who want to spend more time.”
 
 
