NAGPUR: The Koradi and   paid a whopping Rs28 crore while the   plant coughed up Rs19 crore towards demurrage charges to railways for holding up coal rake beyond the free time in the last two years.

 As per railway rules, the power stations are allowed only 7 hours to unload coal. But factors like supply of lumpy, muddy, sticky and wet coal besides faulty wagons have been delaying the process.
 
 The figures were revealed by Mahagenco following an   plea by Abhay Kolarkar. He had sought same information from Paras, Bhusawal, Nashik and   power stations besides the above three for the financial years 2015-16 and 2016-17.
 
 Other power stations too have been incurring demurrage but Koradi leads the chart for paying the highest charge of Rs 13.88 crore for a single financial year. In the last two years, Chandrapur though incurred around Rs 31 crore but it paid only Rs19crore as railways waived off the rest. Bhusawal paid around Rs 9crore, and Nashik nearly Rs 2crore. Kolarkar is yet to get a response from Parli and Paras stations.
 
 In their reply, the power stations said, “The incurrence of demurrage is related to factors such as receipt of lumpy, wet, muddy and sticky coal in rakes which take more time for breaking and grilling. In this connection, the issue is taken up with coal companies at various levels for supply of only dry, sized and quality coal free from overburdens.”
 
 On the shortcomings from the railways, Mahagenco said, “There are constraints like placement of rakes in short span, delay in railway permissions for movement of wagons, sick/damaged wagons and fulfilling railway formalities.”
 
 It said the unloading process has slowed down because of parallel reclaiming of stacked good quality of coal, along with receipt of inferior quality coal from wagons to maintain the generation parameters.
 
 Specific responsibility of any individual or agency can’t be fixed and specific action can’t be taken due to these factors. Mahagenco PRO Yashwant Mohite said he wasn’t aware of the operational and technical issues, but the RTI response has well explained the causes for demurrage.
 
 Kolarkar slammed Mahagenco for unnecessarily wasting public money. “This is state government’s money that they are paying to the Railways. Then, it will be recovered from power consumers through some or other charges. How long are they going to continue this,” he said.
 
 Kolarkar suggested that Mahagenco should write to the railway ministry and seek additional time to release the rakes.
 
