TIRUVANNAMALAI: They have been honing their craft, passed on through generations. They are the well-known Modaiyur sculptors of  . 

 Though the new generation of sculptors has switched over to power saw from chisel, they diligently carry on the legacy. More than 200 members of about 50 families in the village are sculptors, who craft statues of deities and political leaders.
 
 The   that passes through the village resembles an art gallery as more than 50 groups of sculptors showcase their work in front of their small units. Hundreds of sculptures, around one foot to 15 feet tall, stand on either side of the road and never fail to attract passersby.
 
 According to sculptors in the village, their forefathers were brought to Modaiyur by the ruler of Kanchi (Kancheepuram) centuries ago to build a Shiva temple to mark his victory over the  .
 
 The king of Kanchi prayed to Shiva that he would build a temple if he won the war against the Arcot Nawabs. Though he won the war, the king returned to his capital without fulfilling his promise. Hence, his army was stuck (Modai) at a place en route.
 
 "Realising he did not fulfill his promise, the king brought a group of sculptors from his kingdom and built a Shiva temple at the same spot that was later named Modaiyur. The sculptors stayed behind in the village," said sculptor S Murugan.
 
 The Eswaran temple in the village, under renovation, is a proof for the sculptors' claim.
 
 The art form flourished after 1975 and it turned into a cottage industry. Until 50 years ago, people belonging to 'achariyar' community were allowed to learn and master the art. "  did away with caste disparities and taught the talented youngsters, irrespective of their communities, the skills of sculpting. He popularised the cottage industry of sculpting," said Murugan.
 
 After Mamallapuram, the sculptures of Modaiyur were in demand. People from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and several parts of   purchase the sculptures to install in newly-constructed temples. The cost of the sculptures range from 500 to 1.50 lakh based on its size and craftsmanship, said 35 year-old sculptor K Jayaprakash, whose forefathers were skilled scultors. 
 
 Though there was an opportunity to make daily income of 500 to 700, they were finding difficult to procure and transport granite stones from Polur and other areas. "If there are cooperative societies, it will help us get raw materials like stones at affordable prices. But, intense competitiveness is the big hurdle," he said. 
 
