KOLKATA:  ,  , driving through “no entry”, misbehaving with passengers and plying on illegal routes —   in   are accused of every possible violation of traffic rules.

 Their lawlessness in the township, which is dependent on the three-wheelers — made news following the arrest of an   driver who allegedly molested a student on Wednesday.
 
 Residents allege that auto drivers get away with violations on most days. TOI hit the roads to report the ground reality.
 
 
 
 
 None of the autos on the Karunamoyee-Kankurgachhi route ply within Salt Lake without at least five passengers. Some ferry even six — two to the left of the driver and one to the right. The law allows three-wheelers to ferry a maximum of four passengers. Autos follow this norm only when they enter the Kolkata Police zone.
 
 
 
 
 Most autos within the township pay no regard to traffic signals. At roundabouts, autos were spotted speeding past signals. At other places, they were found going against traffic, dangerously dodging incoming vehicles to access a short cut.
 
 
 
 
 Be it over small change, reckless driving or indecent touches, auto drivers in Salt Lake are notorious for harassing passengers at the drop of a hat. Regular commuters say most drivers are so rude and misbehaving that they often want to get off the vehicle.
 
 “Two weeks ago, the driver of an auto I was travelling on was constantly touching my body while humming a song. When I asked him to behave, he asked me to take a taxi if I was uncomfortable in an autorickshaw,” said a woman in her 30s.
 
 
 
 
 At Karunamoyee, the autos are supposed to stay 50m away from the main crossing and stand in a single lane. But the reality is quite different. They pick up and drop passengers from the edge of the crossing, change lanes by taking illegal U-turns and park in two or three lanes at the main stand.
 
 “The passengers don’t come to the main stand and we are forced to go till the edge of the crossing. Further, the number of autos is three times the space we have. Hence, we have to stand in multiple lanes to make space,” said Khokon Das, an auto driver.
 
 
