HOWRAH: For years, the giant-sized indoor sports stadium at Dumurjala stood like a haunted mansion on  , just 1.5 kilometres from state secretariat Nabanna. However, here's good news. The stadium would be brought back to life as part of the `sports city' project that chief minister   announced a year ago. Work has already begun on the stadium and it will be completely re-structured to suit international indoor sports requirements.

 The stadium, built in the 1980s by the stands on the margin of Dumurjala -acres of green dotted with sports clubs -was originally planned for indoor sports activities. At the time, it was planned on the lines of the Netaji Indoor Stadium.However, after the construction was completed and two state-level indoor matches were organized, defects in the construction of the galleries and floor came to the forefront, forcing the   to hand over the stadium to the   (HMC). The latter started using it for commercial needs and let it out for reality shows on TV .
 
 Howrah mayor Rathin Chakraborty said, “After the state declared Dumurjala a `sports city', I proposed to the CM the indoor stadium should be developed into an indoor sports complex that could be even better than Netaji Indoor. HMC would rebuild and maintain the facility . The CM immediately welcomed the idea of having such a sporting facility close to Na banna. She asked state sports and youth affairs minister Aroop Biswas to go through the proposal. Soon after, a grant of Rs 18 crore reached HMC from the sports and youth affairs department for the project.HMC then got the detailed project report (DPR) prepared by a Howrah-based consultant and a tender was floated for the project.“
 
 “The design for the stadium being rebuilt has been prepared by the town and country planning department of IIEST, Shibpur,“ said its director Ajoy Ray .
 
 HMC's advisor on the project, Ramratan Chowdhury , said, “The seating capacity of the indoor stadium will be increased to 6,000 from 3,000 at present. The 50,000sq ft stadium will be centrally airconditioned. part of its floor will be made of teak and the other part of synthetic wood. Most international stadia now have floors of synthetic wood. Besides, it will have two dressing rooms, a power room and a commentary box. The stadium premises will also have a guesthouse.“
 
 Cricketer-turned minister of state for sports in the state Laxmi Ratan Shukla said: “Under the CM's direction, local, national and international sporting events will be held at the stadium when it's re-built. Besides, the stadium complex will have training facilities in various indoor games, including volleyball and basketball.It will be used only for sports and training sportspersons. This will be a marked departure from its use under Left rule when only cultural and TV reality shows were staged but never any sporting event.“
 
