KOLKATA: After   MP   held up an Air India flight last month when he beat up a senior airline official over the allocation of seat, another MP — Trinamool Congress’s   — delayed an AI flight on Friday, again over the issue of seats. Sen created a ruckus when the airline crew tried to shift her mother, who has restricted movement, from the row in front of the emergency exit that requires to be allocated to physically fit passengers to deal with exigencies.

 The commotion began when a flight attendant of AI 020 from Delhi to Kolkata noticed a seat in the emergency exit row had been allocated to Sen’s wheelchair-bound mother Jayati. As per the Directorate General of Civil Aviation norms, the flight attendants approached Sen’s mother and offered her an alternative seat in another row. The MP refused to shift her mother despite the crew offering the 76-year-old a business-class seat. The airline crew tried to reason with her that safety norms required the seat change, but Sen refused to budge.
 
 “I paid additional fare to book the 11th row seats as they offer more legroom. .I didn’t let them bother my mother who finds it difficult to move,” said Sen. Airline staffers and some passengers alleged it was Sen who created the fuss. “When Sen booked the tickets online, she didn’t mention one of the passengers was wheelchair-bound. Else, the seat wouldn’t have been allotted to her,” said an airline official.
 
 The flight was forced to wait till the matter was resolved. Even some passengers tried to persuade her to listen to the crew members. But Sen remained firm. “My mother will travel in this seat and nowhere else,” she told them.
 
 Congress leader  , who was also on the flight, said, “We often tend to forget we may be all-powerful outside, but in a commercial flight, we are all just passengers.”
 
 Finally, the captain approached the MP and assured her they could retain their seats. The flight that was scheduled to depart at 2.25pm took off at 3.04pm.
 
 “The captain stepped in to save the day but had an exigency happened, the airline and the crew would have faced the music. In fact, the DGCA can still seek an explanation,” said a veteran official of another carrier.
 
 AI sources said it was a misunderstanding which was amicably sorted out. An AI official said the airline is “committed to ensuring its employees are not assaulted, misbehaved with by any passenger and would always take actions to preserve the dignity of its employees”.
 
