KOCHI: The Government Medical College, Ernakulam, which has been facing   for many years is inching closer to losing its affiliation with   (KUHS). During an inspection conducted by the KUHS team on Wednesday, it has been found that the   couldn't fill the   even after getting adequate time for it. 

 The KUHS authorities had decided to cancel the medical college's affiliation during 2014-15 and 2015-16 due to faculty crunch. "Considering the fact that the medical college has been in a transition period, we gave conditional approval to it. A few months ago, we had sent a letter to the health secretary instructing him to take immediate measures to fill the vacant posts," a KUHS official said. 
 
 "The condition we had given was that the college should fill the vacant posts before our next inspection," he said. "It will take some more time for the team, which conducted the inspection on Wednesday, to give their report to us. So, we cannot comment on it," he said.
 
 "If the report states that the issue of faculty shortage has not yet been addressed, we will send notices to the medical college affiliation," he said. According to hospital sources, the KUHS inspection team has found that the issue of faculty shortage still prevails. "They asked why the government has been unable to fill the posts. They also pointed out that doctors from Alappuzha, Thrissur and Kozhikode medical colleges were ready to join the Ernakulam Medical College," sources said. 
 
 Around sixty posts of faculty have been lying vacant at the medical college a couple of months ago. In the wake of the inspection, the government had transferred some doctors from other medical colleges to the Ernakulam Medical College. But that too couldn't address the issue of faculty shortage. During the inspections in the previous years, it was found that the faculty shortage was as high as 35%.
 
 Though the government decided to start a catherization laboratory in the medical college, the hospital has not appointed a full-time cardiologist. Nurses and paramedical staff posts have also been lying vacant. "As there are no full-time cardiologists in Ernakulam Medical College, PG students have been forced to go to the Kottayam Medical College. Similarly, the equipment required for neurosurgery have been set up in the hospital but a neurologist has not been appointed. The urology department also is well-equipped but it doesn't function in the absence of a urologist. Government should fill all such posts immediately," said Dr Sanil Kumar of Justice Krishna Iyer Movement.
 
 Health minister K K Shylaja said the government was unaware of the faculty shortage. "We will take appropriate measures to sort out the issue immediately," Shylaja said. "There will not a situation wherein the medical college losing its affiliation," she said.
 
 
