The grand album launch of  's upcoming Marathi film, 'Rubik's Cube', saw 
 's lady love,  , doing a sizzling opening act. The Romanian model-actress crooned ' ' and danced with three assistants of choreographer Remo D'Souza. She even got the director to shake a leg on stage with her. Ten minutes later, Salman went up, and, though he refrained from mentioning Iulia, he was all praise for Manjrekar, who he believes is one of Marathi cinema's finest filmmakers. The actor also painted and gifted him a charcoal portrait.

  
  
 An overwhelmed Manjrekar returned the compliment saying there is no better friend than the 51-year old superstar who's always just a call away. He went on to reveal that the two have big plans to make music together. "I wanted to raise the bar for music in Marathi cinema and mount the songs as lavishly as any   chart-buster. I got Salman, who has a great ear for music, to listen to all the seven tracks and he was impressed. He made Iulia hear them too and she agreed to sing 'Dil Lafanga'," informs Manjrekar who shot with a 60-member unit in Europe for 40 days making 'Rubik's Cube' one of his most ambitious ventures.
 
 Quiz him on why Salman didn't sing any of the seven songs and Manjrekar revealed, "With him you need to pitch a song which is exactly in his zone. He did not sing for this film but he has recorded a number for my next film, 'FU -Fun Unlimited', which is a musical with 14 tracks." Set to release in June, 'FU' brings back Sairat's protagonist Parshya aka   in a new avatar. Manjrekar informed that the song Salman has sung is a part of the narrative, a situational melody. "Salman heard it and asked if he could give it a try. I was delighted. He's recorded it and we both love the song," he said, adding that 'FU -Fun Unlimited' was initially supposed to be launched by Salman's new label - Being Human Music. But it did not take off in time and so Manjrekar sold the music rights to another company.
 
 "In the next six months, we aim to collaborate on a private album, hopefully, with Salman's label backing me. Singles have a big market today and private albums are doing exceedingly well. So expect an announcement soon," he said enigmatically.
 
 Prod Manjrekar on Salman featuring in a special appearance or a song sequence in his next Marathi film and the filmmaker says that he has something bigger and better in mind for the Bollywood actor. "There will be no special appearances for Salman. He is keen to debut in a Marathi film which I will be writing and directing. I am waiting to narrate the right script to him," he asserted.
 
  
  
 
