With shobhayatras and processions being held for any occasion, the streets have become a stage where people profess their faith with massive numbers, money and preparations.   are starting to be held frequently throughout the year.

 Recently, dressed in traditional Marathi attire, several women participated in a rally taken out from Reshimbhag to mark Gudi Padwa, which passed through different areas in Laxmi Nagar. Dhol Pathak and bike rallies also took place on the occasion. Similarly, Jhulelal Jayanti shobhayatra was taken out after the puja of a decorated chariot. A scooter rally was also held. Even for days such as Mahavir and Hanuman jayanti, temples burst crackers, invited brass bands and devotees to take to roads to display their devotion.
 
 In September last year, thousands of Catholics celebrated the canonization of Mother Teresa with a procession organized by the Archdiocese of Nagpur. Bajrang Dal has held processions on Krishna Janamasthmi. Goddess Durga is ‘welcomed’ every year with a procession of devotees chanting 'Bolo Durga mai-ki jai' loudly. The devotees of Hazrat Syed Mohammed Baba Tajuddin Aulia, mark the beginning of Urs with a massive cavalcade and a procession called Sandal with many horses, camels, bands etc
 
 While faith and devotion are the underlying sentiments guiding this display, one more thing is common among all the processions — road blockages and reckless littering on the streets. The trend is only increasing by the year, as more people take to the streets to assert their identities and be noticed.
 
 “It’s true the trend is increasing. Religiosity is good, but when you take it out of its precincts and onto the streets, it converts into militancy. It causes inconvenience as people least bother about others. ‘Humari baat sunenge sab’ is the underlying motto, which is true of all religious processions,” says Dr Yugal Rayalu, head of vocational department, Dharampeth Science College. 
 
 Two things are exhibited through this, says Rayalu — I’m-holier-than-thou attitude and that the community has power. “At our home and in our temple, I may be a Hindu, but on the streets, in the hospitals, I’m an Indian. What’s the need to show religion to others?” he adds.
 
 BJP MLA Sudhakar Rao Deshmukh admits that the number of processions have increased and the party participates in all rallies they’re invited to. “It’s their right to show their devotion and we must only support them,” he said. Puneet Poddar, one of the main members of  , which undertakes the most prominent and grand Ram Navami rally from Poddareshwar Ram Mandir in the city, admits that more often, the rallies are a show of one’s power, but argues that every culture has a right to publicity and preaching. 
 
 “One has no right to question why a particular religion is coming out on the roads and taking out a rally; we out to be within our limits. These rallies are a part and parcel of our culture, and when this culture fades, India too will be in ruins. If a battle is being fought, there will be sacrifices too, and soldiers will die. The same way, there will be road blockages and traffic, if a particular culture is being preserved. Civilians can always make their way,” says Poddar. 
 
 Anjali Gaidhane, a political analyst, gives a rational explanation behind the growing clamour for eyeballs. “It is a reflection of people manifesting their beliefs and values in public. Earlier it was a private affair; now everyone wants to show it in numbers. Crowds are attracted giving various things. It obstructs the traffic, things are strewn all over,” she says, and adds, “We all have the freedom of religion, but it shouldn’t be a nuisance.”
 
 Gaidhane decodes the purpose into two ideas. People seeing the religious affair as a way of pleasing god and, secondly, these functions being a way of entertainment for people to take their family out and enjoy food.
 
 Nizamuddin Quadri, the khadim of Meetha Neem Dargah, Civil Lines, says that publicity is a major reason for carrying out rallies. “If you carry a rally, it will appear in the paper the next day,” he says. Speaking of the reason why Urs annual procession is being taken out since every year, he says, “This is the 13th year in Nagpur, where we are observing the death anniversary of our baba of Aali Janaab Quadri Sahab. This is a 206-year-old tradition, where devotees walk with a plate of sandalwood, attar and a chadar over their head.” The Urs procession this year will be observed from April 23 to April 29. 
 
 The only mention of procession in the Bible is when Jesus enters Jerusalem, says John Menachery, principal,  . “These processions have nothing to do with spirituality. It shows political strength. Face of religion has changed over the years and the rallies are just like some kind of a ritual. God is not interested in counting numbers. It can be called ‘religious marketing’ practised by each company selling products. Here, each group is one competing with each other; which in the end, serves no purpose,” he says.
 
