While making his way to Delhi by train,   charmed the gathered media persons by regaling them with stories of his train journeys and  's comfort level around cameras. The actor, who's promoting his latest film ' ', seemed to be in a great mood and answered the questions thrown to him at length.

 Shah Rukh said that team ‘Raees’ wanted to travel to different cities to promote the film, but they decided that they should call everyone on a train and do the whole interaction on it. He said, "It's different with every film. During 'Chennai Express' we could just go in a mall and dance, with 'Happy New Year' we could do anything, but this film we cannot do all that because it has a different kind of dignity attached, even though it's a popular film. So I didn't know what to do, where do I go and how do I talk to people about 'Raees'. We first thought we will just stick around in Mumbai and meet people here. But we have a few days left so we thought maybe we can meet people from different cities and a member from my team said that we should take a train ride. There's also a small train sequence in the film so he said trains are very closely attached to your being. ' ', 'Chennai Express', even 'Raju Ban Gaya Gentleman' had a train, 'Main Hoon Na' had me come out of a train, ' ' had me see-off one of the ladies in a train. It's been long since I travelled in one, but all the talk in improvement of the conditions of trains is true. We are in the second class right now. When I walked in I thought this is the first class before because during our times the first class looked like this."
 
 
  
  
 The actor said that he enjoys promoting his films, "When a lot of actors tell me they don't like promotions and they get weary of it, I don't feel that. I really enjoy them. With due respect, when someone is going away you spend more time with them and do everything together to spend time. When my kids go, I stay awake and have lunch or dinner with them. For me promotions are genuinely like this. I am happy. To me it is not just another task. I could have taken a flight and gone. But I wanted to enjoy and have fun. I wanted to meet my fans and enjoy the process. It's not just about living in five-star hotels but the memories of 'Raees' will remain with me forever."
 
 Did Shah Rukh think that AbRam could have accompanied him for promotions? Ask the superstar and he’s quick to answer, "I don't know how inconvenient it would be but I would have loved to take AbRam with me. He is full of fun. He was with me in Dubai and he enjoyed it. He doesn't trouble me and everybody is kind to him including the media. He is used to paparazzi and used to being with my team and me. He has gotten used to people around me. He travelled with me to  's set. He waves to the media. Last night I took a flight from Dubai and people wanted to take pictures with me. He wanted to be a part of every picture."
 
 
 
 SRK shared his train anecdotes, "In India, I am travelling (by train) after very long. In London I keep travelling. When I go to see my son and daughter, there I have to take a train and travel for an hour. Here I don't remember the last time I travelled by train. My kids travel by train to school in London. When I was younger, I remember that I earned Rs 50 by being the usher at a   concert. After that, all of my friends wanted to go see  . We saved money and went there. Once there, I remember they used to serve pink lassi. We were hungry, and didn't have anything to eat but I remember the glass of lassi was very large. I had it and I remember seeing a bumble bee in it, so the whole way back from Agra to Delhi I was sitting in general compartment and throwing up."
 
 Another journey that he recalls markedly had him travelling to Mumbai, "I remember we had reserved a berth. We didn't know that the berth system doesn't exist once trains enter Mumbai. The reserved berths become open for all passengers. Suddenly people started coming in and begun to push me and wanted to sit. There was one lady and she wanted me to get up. She got very angry at me. I didn't understand what she was saying. She was shouting at me in Marathi. I didn't know what to say. I said, "This is my seat. Can I also sit?" but she kept shouting. I got up and some other guy sat. I kept arguing my case, and ended up being slapped by the lady. Following that, I quietly stood outside. My train journeys have not been as romantic and beautiful as they have been in films."
 When asked if he finds travelling to be a liberating process, Shah Rukh said, "I like flights. I am not trying to be elitist but normally I do travel private and it really gives me some time to myself. Even if you take a commercial flight, people want to come to meet you, and by nature I am the kind who won't say no to them. So that doesn't become your time. So, whenever I'm travelling private by myself - like when I flew to see my son in New York, it was nice. I can read a book, listen to music, take out my laptop and watch a new series or write - I do write when I'm travelling a lot. I find that time really nice to write. Flying is the only time I get to myself. Because when you're shooting so much, you're being somebody else on set. So you barely get any time to just be yourself. You're always a certain type at work - you're coming to sets, you have to learn your lines, you have to play your part, so we hardly get time to be just us."
  
 
  
  
 The Badshah of Bollywood also admitted that he can't see himself taking vacations, like some of his co-stars do. "They tell me they're taking off to some place to take some time off for a couple of weeks, and my reaction is always like "Really? You do that?" But I have a lot of responsibilities. I have kids and whenever I find time, I want to be with them unless they're not in town. So I keep finding excuses to go down to London or New York to see my kids, and take a couple of days off with them."
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
