COIMBATORE: Yarn sales in western Tamil Nadu have plummeted as production in spinning mills has come to a grinding halt since the demonetisation drive started. As a consequence,   are getting piled up in the city mills, most of which rely on migrant labourers who have stopped work. 

 "Since the demonetisation move, they (migrant labourers) are unable to come to work because they don't have bank accounts. Opening a bank account is an issue as they do not have identity proofs," Gopal Maheshwary, a yarn merchant in the city, said. 
 
 "Many of them have returned to their hometowns and will come back only when there is sufficient cash flow in the market," he further said. 
 
 With the shortage of labour, owners of spinning mills are unable to run their units on a daily basis. "The number of shifts has come down to two or one per day. With inadequate workforce, we are unable to carry out production to the capacity, resulting in piling up of yarn stocks," Maheshwary said. 
 
 "On any given time, most big spinning mills have stock of 15 days to 30 days. Now, it has piled up to three or four months," he added.
 
 Some merchants said the loss incurred due to the fall in production has doubled. "Textile industry has been facing a dull market in the past two years. Yarn exports have come down. We were incurring anything between 15% and 25% loss as compared to the business two years ago. Due to demonetisation, the loss has doubled," said secretary of Coimbatore Yarn Merchants and Brokers Association C T Nehru Ramanathan. 
 
 He said officials from the central government should visit the region to take stock of the industry's problems. "We need Centre's support to revive," said Ramanathan. With fall in yarn supply, weaving units have also shrunk their output. 
 
 "Most weaving units have temporarily closed. They only function two or three times a week. Or may be for festivals or important orders," said the president of Federation of Tamil Nadu Yarn Merchants Association, T Ramasubramaniam. 
 
 
