BENGALURU: If one was to go by the recent head-to-head record between   and  , then the latter, having won both their previous two encounters, have the edge. But going by sheer momentum,   and his men will look to extend their good run at the M Chinnaswamy stadium after shutting out defending champions Sunrisers Hyderabad by seven wickets in their rain-hit Eliminator on Wednesday.

 Both teams come into Qualifier 2 here on Friday night with talent, experience and form in equal measure. Having said that, two individuals who could make the difference to their team's fortunes are the captains   and Gambhir. For, the contest within the contest is between two gifted Indian batsmen leading highly competitive sides.
 
 Yet, on many counts, it hasn't been a season to remember for the talented Rohit. The start for Mumbai Indians was good as they won eight of the first 11 matches, but they have stuttered on more than one occasion thereafter. One of the prime reasons for that has been Rohit's indifferent form with the willow. With 283 runs from 15 matches, this has been the Mumbaikar's most ordinary show in the   and most often, team brilliance has masked his poor run through the season.
 
 As a leader too he has taken some stick with a few odd choices and decisions. Mitchell Johnson, a key member of the team when Mumbai won the title in 2013, has made just three appearance this season, while Mitchell McClenaghan, who has claimed 19 wickets (14 matches) at an economy rate of 9.38, has got the nod despite leaking runs during crunch situations.
 
 Likewise, the decision to leave out veteran spinner Harbhajan Singh in Qualifier 1 not only generated some heat in the dressing room, it also backfired. Thus, there have been many tactical moves which have been questioned.
 
 In contrast, Gambhir has been the man of the season with the bat for the two-time champions, scoring 486 runs at a strike rate that is a shade below 130. To his credit, tactical moves too have paid off. Be it getting Sunil Narine to open the innings or using Nathan Coulter-Nile effectively or bringing in Ishank Jaggi for his first IPL game in five years, the players he has trusted have responded well on the field.
 
 On a tricky Bengaluru wicket, where the best of batsmen have struggled and the most unlikely heroes have emerged, a lot of thinking will go into putting the playing XI together.
 
 Given the way the pitch has been behaving, Mumbai may weigh in the option of bringing back Harbhajan. Gambhir too may be tempted to play an extra spinner and draft in Chinaman Kuldeep Yadav, especially given Rohit's struggle against turn. While it looks like most of the Mumbai squad is available for selection, they will hope for players like Rohit and Kieron Pollard to score big. KKR may continue to be without Manish Pandey who is nursing a rib injury.
 
 While Mumbai, the table toppers in the league phase, get a chance to undo the mistakes made in Qualifier 1, Kolkata, having come so far, will have nothing but the trophy on their mind. That said, both teams will hope for rain to stay away.
 
