GURUGRAM : A 47-year-old   was shot dead in Sector 69 late on Monday, in what appeared to be the fallout of a two-decade-old enmity between two families of Maidawas village.

 Police said the deceased, Rajkumar, alias Raju, was allegedly involved in the   of Deepak Kumar’s father around 20 years ago.
 
 Now, Deepak (24), who had been apparently trying to avenge his father’s killing, has been booked as the main accused for Rajkumar’s killing.
 
 Rajkumar was shot eight times in the chest, head and legs by four to five men following a car chase around 11pm when the property dealer was returning home to Maidawas village in Badshapur from his office on Sohna road.
 
 Preliminary probe revealed that a black car started following Rajkumar’s S-cross near Iscon temple just ahead of Badshapur. He seemed to have sensed that some people were following him and thus, started driving fast to get them off his tail. But, he rammed his car into a divider. The assailants opened fire. Rajkumar took at least a couple of bullets, but managed to get out of the car and hide in a nearby house in Sector 69. But the assailants hunted him down soon and sprayed bullets into his body. 
 
 Based on the complaint filed by Rajkumar’s father Hansraj, an FIR has been registered against Deepak, a resident of the same village, and seven others under sections 302 (murder), 34 (common intention) of the IPC and various sections of the Arms Act at Badshapur police station. Police have found the black car, used for the attack, in Mangar Bani area, but the culprits are still absconding. A team, led by ACP (Sohna) Birem Singh, also visited the spot on Tuesday morning and collected evidence.
 
 “The victim’s father named eight people, including Deepak. We are verifying the names,” said inspector Rajender Kumar, SHO, Badshapur police station.
 
 “We have formed three teams to nab the accused and they are on the job,” police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar told TOI. A senior police officer said the property dealer had been arrested in connection with the murder of Brahma Praksah, Deepak’s father, and was lodged in jail for three months. He was later acquitted by the court after the two families came to a compromise.
 
 Deepak, who had been involved in many cases, including murder, earlier, came out of Bhondsi jail on bail around a month ago. He was also lodged at Narnaul jail in connection with a gang war in Narnaul.
 
 
