KOZHIKODE:   has instituted a   into the incident of answer sheets of varsity’s  , the results of which had already been published, were found strewn along the roadside near Mavoor on Tuesday.

 The answer sheets of the second semester BA degree examination held in June 2013 were found abandoned along the road on Tuesday. Many more answer sheets of the same exam and a score sheet in which the marks awarded to the students were recorded were found on Wednesday from the road stretch near Peruvayal. 
 
 The answer sheets belonged to students of the varsity’s  . The varsity had declared the results of the exam in 2014.
 Though the varsity had valued the answer sheets and published the results, the varsity has clear guidelines on how to dispose off the answer sheets after valuation.
 
 The answer sheets sent to the evaluators for home valuation should be returned to the colleges after valuation. The varsity would collect the answer sheets from the colleges are then brought back to the Pareeksha Bhavan and stored in the godowns for six months before they are disposed off.
 
 Controller of Examinations V V Georgekutty on Wednesday inspected the site at Peruvayal where the answer scripts were found. During the search he found out one more answer sheet from the area.
 
 "We are viewing the incident very seriously and a department level inqury has been constituted to find out who is responsible for the incident," 
 
 He said that the university had not collected the examination answer sheets from the colleges near the area during the last two days. Joint Controller of Examination P Sreedharan has been asked to conduct the inquiry and submit the report in two days.
 
 The varsity authorities are focusing on whether the teacher who had conducted the evaluation had returned the answer sheets back to the college.
 
 "We are examining the false numbers in the answer sheets to find out to which college the answer sheets were sent to evaluation. After that we will be able to find out the teacher to whom the answer sheets were given for evaluation," Georgekutty said.
 
 Though the score sheet found in the roadside has the name of the evaluator, the college in which she is working is yet to be ascertained.
 
 While the valuation of regular students are carried out in valuation camps, the answer scripts of distance education students are done through in the home valuation mode.
 
 Varsity officials suspect that the evaluator could have sold off the old valued answer sheet to scrap dealers and the bundle could have fallen off from the vehicle which transported it.
 
