MUMBAI: One of  's batting mainstays   on Tuesday acknowledged that their side has been below par in the ongoing   where they haven't been able to even "compete well enough".

 RCB are out of contention having lost eight out of the 11 matches that they have played so far.
 
 "Unfortunately, this year we haven't played well as wanted to but I think there are some valuable lessons we have learnt throughout the season. I think we have let ourselves down a little bit in the last few games by not competing as well as we would have wanted to," De Villiers said at a promotional event.
 
 De Villiers was a bit disappointed about RCB not being able to close out games.
 
 "(Last evening vs MI) I thought we were right in the game. Which was great and that is the kind of thing you want, that you want to compete. I was hoping we could somehow find a way to pull it through but it wasn't meant to be. We have a few more games left and hopefully will finish the season with dignity," he added.
 
 The 33-year old, who was the top-scorer for his side last evening with a 27-ball 43, backed table-toppers   and said they have a good chance to go all the way through this year.
 
 "I think they (Mumbai Indians) have got a wonderful team as well and they have got a really good chance of going all the way during this season," he said.
 
 He termed that his 10-year association with IPL has been a life-changing one in every sense of the term.
 
 "I started my IPL career at the   for the first three years, which was a very good experience and then moved to Royal Challengers Bangalore and this is my seventh season with them now. I could not have asked for a better franchise to play IPL for. They are a very professional unit."
 
 It's not only the cricket achievements but the memories off it, relationships beyond the 22 yards that makes IPL so special for one of the contemporary greats of the game.
 
 "The memories stand out for me. I have created some great memories over the last 10 years, the fans, the electric vibes in the grounds that we get, the friendships I have made in and around the team, the people who support us."
 
 De Villiers also said he is gearing up for   after IPL.
 
 "My next commitment after the IPL is the Champions Trophy something that South Africans would love to win. India won it last time in England and they will be ready for a strong campaign around this year as well. There is quite a bit of cricket in the next few years and I would like to think that I am going to play for quite a few more years," he said.
 
