COIMBATORE: The family members of a 20-year-old girl, a final year BSc biochemistry student, got a rude shock when they got news that she was trapped under the debris when the roof of   bus stand collapsed on September 7. Latha lost a leg in the incident, but she has not lost hope and she continues to pursue her dreams, said her parents.

 Daughter of daily wagers from   village, Latha wanted to pursue post-graduation and land a government job to help her family meet ends. But, just as she, along with her friend C Dharani, 20, of Ichipatti, stepped into the bus stand on the fateful day, the roof collapsed and she was trapped under the debris. Her left leg, badly injured, had to be amputated.   died.
 
 Now, Latha's family has no idea how to fund her treat ment that has already cost `4 lakh. The family has sought public help as the government has granted just `50,000.
 
 Latha's parents D   , 45, and N Jayalakshmi, 42, employed at a powerloom unit in Somanur, earn less than `400 a day . Her younger brother N Sasikumar, 19, a diploma holder in mechanical engineering, is yet to bag a job. The family pays `1,500 as house rent.
 
 “She often told me that she would complete her postgraduation course and find a government job to help the family . She was very active and loved to walk a lot.Though she has lost her left leg, her dreams and hopes are still alive,“ her father said.Latha, a student of Dr NGP College of Arts and Science in Kalapatti, was returning home after appearing for an exam when the incident took place. She was rushed to   in the city , where doctors amputated her left leg.
 
 Narayanasamy said Latha was very courageous and was determined to fulfil her dream of landing a job in a public sector organisation.“I am a Class II dropout and my wife, a Class VII dropout.We know the importance of education and we are working hard to educate our children,“ he said.
 
 The hospital management wanted to perform a surgery on Monday , but it was postponed as the wounds hadn't healed properly . “The government gave us just `50,000 as compensation. But the expenses for her treatment have already touched `4 lakh and could go up. We want the government to offer my sister a job,“ said Sasikumar, Latha's brother.
 
