JAIPUR: The Gujjar leaders believe constituting a committee under Justice SS Garg and the re-survey of condition of Socially Backward Classes ( ) is a farce. The high court (HC) had already made it clear that only   is entitled to conduct surveys and not just any committee.

 Shailendra Singh, general secretary and legal advisor of Rajasthan Gujjar Arakshan Sangharsh Samiti said SS Garg panel is the third committee constituted by the government ever since Gujjars’s agitation in 2005 that sought separate quota from OBC (Other Backwards Classes).
 
 Justice (retired)   had conducted a comprehensive study of the OBCs. He had come to the conclusion that Gujjars are most backward residing in remote and hilly areas. The survey covered 450 villages in 20 districts and 30,000 families.
 
 It was followed by the IS Israni Commission. It was constituted on the directions of the high court to study the condition of OBCs in the state which the high court found as selective and flawed one. Now, another committee has been constituted under Justice (retired) SS Garg, which is planning to conduct survey. “In the last 10 years there have been drastic changes and there is no point in conducting fresh surveys which don’t have legal sanctity. It is nothing but a waste of time and resources,” Singh said.
 
 He added that HC in the Rattanlal Bagri case which challenged the notification on January 10, 2000 through which Jats of Bharatpur and Dholpur were granted OBC status had ordered to review the entire 82 castes of the OBC list. This was to be done through a permanent statutory OBC commission backed by an Act and not by any administrative order. Following which the government constituted an OBC commission.
 
 He said the government is left with only two options. It has to move the   and obtain a stay on the high court order which scrapped the 5% SBC quota which will give a temporary relief and meanwhile work on permanent remedy. The permanent remedy is to categorize OBC quota of 21 % in three categories - backward, more backward and most backward as suggested by the   so that reservation will not exceed the 50% limit in the state.
 
