PUNE: The central government's various health schemes meant for urban poor have failed to make the desired impact with over 22% community health workers' posts still lying vacant in many municipal corporations across state.

 Community health workers, popularly known as Asha (  Activist), are a key component in the   (NUHM).
 
 Among various municipal corporations in Maharashtra, Ulhasnagar accounts for the highest (77%) vacancies, followed by Dhule (76%), Pune (73%) and Thane (63%).
 
 This has resulted in poor implementation of various health schemes launched with much fanfare.
 
 Community health workers play a vital role in ensuring that the benefits of various Union government schemes are availed by the urban poor. They proactively reach out to this section of the society by way of regular outreach sessions, including monthly health, sanitation and nutrition days.
 
 According to the official website (nhm.gov.in), "A trained female community health activist, ASHA or Accredited Social Health Activist, (is) selected from the village itself and accountable to it. The ASHA will be trained to work as an interface between the community and the public health system.Following are the key components of ASHA."
 
 The health worker, as per the government guidelines, is preferably in the age group of 25 to 45 years.
 
 Anil Naxine, state programme officer for National Health Mission (NHM), said, "  (community health workers) don't get a fixed salary. It is the performance-based incentive, which is awarded to them as per their work. Besides, cities provide many job opportunities. Hence, women are not ready to work on honorarium in cities. This is one of the reasons why some posts of the community health workers are still lying vacant."
 
 Community health workers in the city area can earn up to Rs 2,000 to Rs 7,000 per month if they work for all health indicators, including child health, immunisation, family planning, community health, leprosy , tuberculosis, vectorand water-borne diseases.
 
 For example, an Asha gets Rs 200 for enrolling a pregnant woman for antenatal care with public hospital and another Rs 200 when the woman delivers in the hospital. "We are trying to increase the indicator-wise incentive given to Ashas in the municipal corporation areas. The current vacancy is not more than 20% in city areas. Many municipal corporations have started filling up posts," Naxine said.
 
 Due to this high vacancy , government schemes like   (JSY), which is aimed at promoting deliveries in hospital set-ups, are faring poorly in the municipal corporation areas.
 
 Of the 1,14,400 eligible pregnant women in state's 26 municipal corporations, only 40,389 availed the benefit of Rs 600 for delivering in hospital in 2016-17, state government's latest report revealed.
 
 In some municipal corporation areas, including Vasai-Virar, Pune, Thane and  , the percentage of beneficiaries hover from 1-19%, indicating extremely poor execution.
 
 Sanjeev Wavare, assistant medical officer of health, PMC, said, "Women are not keen to work as Ashas in cities. They find the incentive meagre."
 
