Pimpri Chinchwad: Summer is at its peak and citizens are crowding at swimming pools for a cool splash even as none seems to be aware about the number of   at the dozen facilities run by the civic body. 

 While senior civic officials were evasive about the actual number of lifeguards at these pools, most users said they did not have the faintest idea about if the corporation was at all maintaining the safety prerequisites as set by the state (see graphics). 
 
 The   Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has invited bids for recruiting 25 lifeguards on a contract basis for a period of three months. Wednesday was the deadline for submission of the bids and it will take at least a fortnight for recruiting the 25 lifeguards. 
 
 In accordance with the bid conditions, the lifeguards deputed at the swimming   have the responsibility of rescuing swimmers. At least two lifeguards would be deputed at each of the 12 swimming pools in areas such as Akurdi, Yamunanagar, Nehrunagar, Kasarwadi, Bhosari, Sangvi and Chinchwad. If required, the corporation will depute additional lifeguards. “The lifeguards will be responsible if anything untoward happens,” states a condition of the contract.
 
 Additional commissioner Tanaji Shinde said the lifeguards were appointed on a contract basis every year. When asked what’s the actual number of lifeguards in action at the pools, he had no answer. 
 
 Many people using the swimming pools said they had no idea if the facilities had lifeguards. 
 
 Vaishnavi Waghmare, a teenager, said there should be lifeguards at every swimming pool, whether it is run by the civic body or is a private facility. “Hundreds of people hit the pools every day during summer. We do not know whether there is a lifeguard or not,” she said.
 
 Devdutta Lande, a Kasarwadi resident, said, “Many children and teenagers who are non-swimmers come to these pools, on which crores are spent. There should be a proper planning to appoint lifeguards. If anything untoward happens, who should be responsible? Professional swimmers should be appointed as lifeguards.”
 
 PMC’s Nathuram Dagadu Mengade swimming pool in Karvenagar was in news in January last year when an eight-year-old schoolgirl drowned there. Though police had given a clean chit to the swimming pool operators, questions were raised about the ability of the lifeguards deployed there.
 
 In May 2014, an 8-year-old boy drowned in the swimming pool of a society in Market Yard. The lifeguard and his supervisor were arrested for allegedly causing the boy’s death due to negligence. 
 
 
