GURUGRAM: Of late, construction work for the underpass at the Genpact intersection on   has been causing long traffic snarls. 

 According to residents driving from Sector 56 or going the other way, the stretch under the Sector 53-54 Metro station leading up to   is now a choke point, and entails a long wait during office hours. It’s also a cause for concern for residents of DLF 4 and 5 and employees of nearby offices, including those of One Horizon Centre and Mando, as well as traffic bound for South Point mall.
 
 Pawan Soni, a Sector 56 resident who drives down the road twice daily, says it takes 20-25 minutes to cross the 200m stretch. “The condition of the already potholed road has deteriorated since the recent rains. Moreover, the road has a sudden bottleneck, where it should have been gradually tapered, from four lanes to two, causing more chaos,” he said.
 
 Traffic cops and the area’s developer have recently made some changes. DCP (traffic) Simardeep Singh said short stretch, which was cordoned off for repair work, has recently been freed. “DLF recently finished the repair work. But residents will have to bear with the snarl for a bit more, because of the construction work,” said Singh. The 16-lane highway, a joint project between DLF and Huda, continues to be held-up by the underpass construction. 
 
 On Monday, police commissioner  , along with the DCP (traffic), visited   Road. One of the items on their agenda was to check the efficiency of an U-turn near American Express building, which DLF Pinnacle residents approaching from Cyber Hub used to take, to drive down the wrong side and reach their society, because of the construction work. 
 
 Cops said residents have now been advised to take the next underpass, beyond Genpact crossing, and then take a left. Police said societies along the stretch are being informed of the change. “Cops have been told to direct people to the new U-turn. Traffic signage and notices on RWA boards will soon be put up,” said Singh.
 
