CHENNAI: For close to 12 hours, 42-year-old Selvi’s nose sheltered a  . Three hospital visits later, and with a dozen hands prodding, coercing and pincering, the insect was finally brought out, alive. 

 Selvi, a resident of Injambakkam here, woke up late on Tuesday night with a start after she felt her an itchy sensation in her nasal cavity. “At first, I thought I was coming down with a cold,” said the homemaker. It was when the obstacle began to wriggle, she realised that it was more than just a regular flu.
 
 She was taken to a private hospital where   suspected a nasal growth to be the cause. Selvi said a second hospital couldn’t identify the block and used a contraption that tried to pump it out with water, to no avail. Doctors in the third hospital attributed the discomfort to a “foreign body that seemed to be mobile” and recommended a scan. 
 
 On Wednesday morning, Selvi, who by then was struggling to breathe, was referred to the ENT department at  . When doctors used a torch and then a nasal endoscope -- an instrument used to view the inside of a body -- they found the blob had a pair of antennae. 
 
 “It was a full grown cockroach,” said Dr M N Shankar, head of the ENT department at Stanley. 
 
 Doctors, who were baffled over how the insect managed to sneak into Selvi’s nasal cavity, were even more surprised when the endoscope revealed the insect was moving. 
 
 “It was alive. And it didn’t seem to want to come out,” said Dr Shankar. 
 
 When a suction apparatus was used, the insect clung to the tissues. “We had to use a combination of suction and forceps to finally pull out the cockroach,” said Dr S Muthuchitra, who was part of the rescue team. 
 
 The entire process took 45 minutes.
 
 The department has in the past removed objects like beads, a button cell, leech and chalk piece from nasal cavities. “But not a cockroach, especially not one this large,” said Muthuchitra, showing the ‘invader’ lying on its back in a container, with its wings spread and legs moving excitedly. 
 
