Bhopal: Known for his matchless publicity campaigns, Madhya Pradesh chief minister   gave a unique gift to Prime Minister   on completing three years in office, a eulogistic video composition titled ‘Saal Teen Behtareen’, showcasing the achievements of Modi government’s three years.

 “A gift from me and citizens of my state to the Prime Minister of India, Narendra Modi, on the occasion of his three-year tenure”, stated Chouhan while officially releasing the ad composition through his twitter account on Friday.
 
 The song was released in the evening during the inauguration of the cable bridge, `Bhoj Setu', situated over the Upper Lake of Bhopal in the same way as the Prime Minister dedicated country's longest bridge over the Lohit between Assam and Arunachal Pradesh on Friday.
 
 The composition sung by well-known playback singer Kailash Kher has the punch line ‘Saal Teen Behtareen’, signifying Prime Minister’s image as an icon for ‘developed India’. The song portrays Modi's leadership and achievements of NDA government during the past three years.
 
 “The video focusses mainly on Modi's development initiativesfor economic growth, promotion of industry, army, space technology and welfare schemes for marginalised community. The punch line carries a clear message - Every Person is Important (EPI)”, said officials of the publicity department.
 
 “The song is dedicated to the development works for the public and it is beautifully sung by Kailash Kher, which highlights the achievements of the government,” said principal secretary of chief minister S K Mishra.
 
 The entire composition was conceptualised by the state publicity department but created and weaved into a presentation by an international advertising, marketing and public relations agency, said sources in the department. 
 
 On the day of its release, the video was shown live in more than 350 municipal bodies, which included all Nagar panchayats, municipalities and municipal corporations, across the state on high-resolution LED screens.
 
 This unique gift matches the state government’s popular campaigns which have been known across the world and were also replicated by the central government. 
 
 -------------
 
 
