PANAJI: The finance department has thwarted an attempt by the directorate of health services (DHS) to appoint a consultant and create a   (DDSSY) cell to supervise the universal insurance scheme. The directorate’s move to appoint a consultant came despite the ban on government recruitment in the state, including contractual appointments.
 
  The DDSSY, which covers the entire population of the state, was launched six months ago.
  
  The DHS moved the first note on December 9, 2016, while the personnel department’s circular banning recruitment was issued on November 22, 2016.
  
  The DHS, along with the public health department (PHD), pushed for the appointment of Dr Balakrishna V Pai, a retired employee of  , as consultant even after election code of conduct came into operation.
  
  The DHS has flouted regular selection procedure in wanting to appoint Pai, whose named was proposed after he sent an application seeking to be appointed as consultant, a finance official said.
  
  “The DHS proposed Dr Pai’s name after it had received an application from the former seeking he be appointed as consultant,” a finance official said.
  
  “If a consultant was really required, DHS should have invited applications. A wider choice would allow for better choice,” the officer said.
  
  What caught the attention of the finance department was that the proposal to appoint Pai came after Pai submitted his proposal to the government. “How can they decide to appoint someone purely on basis of a simple application?” the officer questioned.
  
  The file noting available with TOI revealed that the DHS and PHS persisted with their request even before a salary had been fixed for the consultant and other staff of the proposed cell.
  
  On receiving the approval of chief minister Laxmikant and deputy chief minister Francis D’Souza, who is also the health minister, the DHS sought permission of the PHD to convey approval of appointment to Pai. The PHC referred the request to the finance department and asked it to fix a remuneration for Pai.
  
  While the finance department did not directly shoot-down the proposal, it made certain queries, which made it clear that the DHS and PHS were in a hurry to appoint a consultant even to the extent of bypassing due procedure.
  
  The finance department pointed out that a ban on recruitment was in force, and that, even in case of exigencies of work as well as specific departmental requirement requiring the services of certain employees, relaxation to the November 23, 2016, circular was needed before obtaining concurrence of the finance department.
  
  In this case, certainly, two arms of the health ministry had tried to bypass the rules.
