PITHORAGARH: The   along   saw   taking to the streets in  ,   and Bageshwar of Kumaoun division protesting against existing and shifting of vends from highways to other localities. In Pithoragarh district, Thal, Berinag and Gangolihat saw women coming to the streets protesting against relocation of liquor vends from highways. In Berinag, a shop owner made a bid to open a liquor shop in Purana Bazaar, but his attempt was thwarted by women there. Similarly, in Gangolihat, locals opposed to shifting of a liquor shop close to post office. 

  "We do not want a liquor shop close to the post office. We submit a memorandum to subdivisional magistrate (SDM) in this regard," said Ganesh Bora, a Gangawali Zila Banao Samiti leader. Kamla Chand, a local villager, said, "In Thal, women staged a night-long dharana at the proposed site of a liquor shop. The administration could have opened a shop in the night, so we staged a dharana in the night as well." "Champawat is worst hit by women's protests. Jup, Dhakna Badola, Pati, Shukhi Dhang and the district headquarters are in the grip of women agitators, where only three, out of the 16 shops were opened," said district excise source. 
 
 In Bageshwar district, women blocked state highway at Garur, demanding "denial of permission" for the opening and shifting of liquor shops. Meanwhile, closing of vends has resulted in illegal sell of liquor at a high price. A man claimed that he bought a bottle of liquor with an MRP of Rs. 425 for Rs 800.
 
 Earlier, around 300 women sat on a protest at the Kund-Chopta-Gopeshwar highway in Garhwal throughout Friday night, and also blocked parts of the highway on Saturday. Similar protests were held in Tehri and Bageshwar (in Kumaon) where women took out a procession wielding sticks. Alcoholism among men in the hills is rampant and the women fear availability of more liquor vends in residential areas would accelerate the problem. Women at Bilona in Bageshwar held a rally wielding sticks and a local plant which causes burning sensation on the skin. They said it was just a symbolic protest to warn the authorities that they would be pushed out of the village using sticks and bichchhoo grass (stinging nettle) if they allow liquor shops to be shifted here.
 
 
