NEW DELHI: After putting its driverless trains and cameras on track,   (DMRC) has decided to give its customer service a makeover. The first point of contact, the  , is going to be rejigged.

 “The app will be upgraded and new features will be introduced to make it more interactive,” said Sharat Sharma,   (operations).
 
 Currently, the Delhi Metro app is a basic application that provides information on train routes, nearest station, train timings, etc. “Phase-III will be a more dynamic and energy efficient system, primarily because the use of technology will be much more than now,” Sharma said.
 
 To start with, financial transactions will be introduced in the app. While smart card can be topped-up through third party apps, commuters must stand in queues to buy tokens either at the counter or through ticket vending machines. “We are looking at ways to enable passengers to purchase tokens or top-up their smart card through the Delhi Metro app,” said Sharma.
 
 Though commuters would still need to physically swipe the token or card at the automatic fare collection gate, the process will get easier and faster through the Delhi Metro app.
 
 Sharma has, however, not given a date as to when the app is expected to get the upgrades. “Our technical team is working on the upgrade and we should be able to introduce the improved app soon,” he added.
 
 Phase-III is expected to showcase more technology than the previous ones. Even the operations control centre (OCC) will be enhanced with more technology features. “With the introduction of communications-based train control (CBTC), the OCC will be different. A different OCC is being constructed for lines 7 and 8,” said Sharma.
 
 CBTC is radio-based communication that will put the reins of control in the OCC as drivers will not be on the trains in a few years. Communication with these driverless trains will be through cameras fitted not only inside the trains but also along the tracks. “CCTV monitoring is a major factor in Phase-III. Even the interface with the commuters will be more digital,” Sharma said.
 
