NAGPUR: A Sunday evening spent watching a Hindi play of high calibre is not what happens as a routine in the city. But this was made possible for lovers of Hindi theatre with the staging of Makrand Deshpande’s iconic play   at Dr Vasantrao Deshpande Hall. The play had debuted 17 years back and had a powerful cast comprising Rajeev Gupta playing sir to his three students, Anurag Kashyap, Sonali Kulkarni and Abhimanyu Singh.

 Taking the stage was Makrand himself in the role of professor Palikar and his three students   in the role of Sarla, Faizal Rashid as Keshav and   playing the powerful character of Phanidhar. Sir Sir Sarla is a web of emotions, the said and unsaid, and a deep philosophy which rises through the churning of relationships. It is the story of a charismatic professor who tends to influence the lives of his students possibly unintentionally but probably as he tries to bury his own true feelings towards them. The plot becomes a quagmire of repressed emotions and explodes when these come to the fore as the students confront the professor and blame him for the mess they have landed in.
 
 The beauty of the play is the deep philosophy which comes through the commonplace situations and conversations. The undercurrents which are palpable as so much is left unsaid. The restrain with which each character plays out his and her feelings and the sombre truths which surface as these emotions tumble out. There is right amount of humour, the depth of emotions and a perfect balance in characterization. Each character works as the perfect foil for other’s exuberance or passivity.
 
 Making a mention of city’s playwright Mahesh Elkunchwar and his trilogy, Deshpande said that Sir Sir Sarla too had three parts and in 2006 they had a six-hour run at Prithvi Theatre in Mumbai where all three parts were staged. “This version being presented in Nagpur for the first time has part one and two compressed together,” he told the audience.
 
 Elaborate sets and deft use of lights enhanced the drama but sound once again at Deshpande auditorium was the undoing. Poor sound which was not reaching the back rows made the actors wear mic in the second half when again Deshpande was not happy with the quality and the play was halted for some time to make adjustments. 
 
 Quotes: 
 
 This is the most desirable thing to happen in the city’s cultural sphere. There is a need for Hindi plays and this has fulfilled that demand. I hope this is a beginning and more such plays will be staged
 
 Ashit Sinha | hr trainer
 
 I have come to watch Makrand Deshpande perform as this is a rare opportunity for us. Nagpur has lots of theatre lovers and plays of this stature should be staged here more often
 
 PM Dhawale | retired banker
 
 I am a lover of literature and when I read that Makrand Deshpande will be performing, I had to watch this. Besides, student-teacher relationship is one subject which I find very interesting
 
  | AGM, RBI
 
 Caption
 
 Artistes during the play ‘Sar Sar Sarla’ staged at Dr Vasantrao Deshpande Hall on Sunday
 
 
