PATNA: The   rescued a 12-year   within a couple of hours of his kidnapping for ransom by two youngsters on Tuesday. Police said the duo committed the   the losses they had incurred on betting on   matches.

 The rescued child was identified by police as Harsh Raj, a Class VIII student of Radiant International School at Khagaul in Patna.
 
 Police said they arrested Aman Kumar, a Class XII student of a private school in central Patna, and Deepak Kumar in connection with the kidnapping. They were members of a bikers’ gang operating in the city.
 
 The child told newsmen he had come out of his school around 12.30pm on Tuesday when two bikers asked him if they could give him a drop up to his destination.
 
 “I sat on the bike, but they did not stop when I asked them to. One of them, sitting behind me, put a knife at my neck and ordered me not to shout,” the boy said, adding they took him to an unknown place where other youths joined them and thrashed him.
 
 His hands were tied behind and his mouth was taped. 
 
 SSP Manu Maharaaj said police swung into action after a caller informed them that a child had been forcibly brought in his neighbourhood by some youths. “We rescued the child and arrested the two kidnappers from a hut in Beur Akhara under the Beur police station area around 2.30pm,” he said.
 
 According to the SSP, Deepak had lost Rs 15,000 in betting. It was he who planned to kidnap a child. They spotted Harsh alone, and kidnapped him thinking that he might be rich since he was studying in a reputed school, the SSP said, adding they had planned to demand Rs 2 lakh as ransom.
 
 Maharaaj said police would soon convene a meeting of the officials of city schools to avoid such incidents in future.
 
 In response to a question, the SSP said the child used to be picked up by his father Ravi Shankar Singh every day. “On Tuesday, Harsh came out of the school even before I reached the school,” said Singh, a farmer who also deals in real estate. The family lives at Kothwa in Khagaul, some 3km from Harsh’s school.
 
 Aman’s father   runs a medicine shop at Gai Ghat while Deepak’s father Raj Kumar is a car driver. “We have forwarded the two accused to Beur jail. Raids are on to nab their accomplices,” said the SSP. 
 
