Over the past decade or so, Bengaluru’s   scene has evolved manifold — not just in terms of the way roles are scripted and enacted, but also the kind of audience that come to watch these theatricals and the spaces where the plays are performed. Inching away from the traditional mould, theatre folk in the city are indulging in a lot of experimental works that are both daring and entertaining. Be it playback, documentary or immersive theatre, or even gender role reversals in a Yakshagana play, almost every production is breaking new grounds. So, what’s keeping Bengaluru from being christened the Theatre Capital of India? Or has the transition already taken place, but blockbuster films, music concerts and international cricket matches are hogging all the attention? On World Theatre Day, Bangalore Times tells you why theatre should be the talk of the town...

 
 
 “There is no doubt that experimental theatre is on a high in Benagluru right now. In fact, audiences here are very keen to watch new plays that are radical and different from the conventional styles. However, a closer look into the theatre scene would show that the majority of these experimentation is happening only in the areas of storyline and characters. We also need to concentrate in the form of the dramatic pieces as well as the way they are presented. Practitioners still fear to explore the unknown. Apart from better marketing/promotional tactics, big institutions need to be more supportive. Also, the government must facilitate more public auditoriums to stage plays as well as be transparent when it comes to fund allocation. In order to make theatre mainstream, we need to package plays as family entertainers and not just for a niche group of audience,” says actor-director  , who is also the founder of Organizational Theatre.
 
 
 
 According to actor and arts manager  , of Sandbox Collective, Bengaluru’s theatre scene right now is at its best. “With a lot of theatre groups from across the country holding their premiere shows here and big international players bringing in their popular productions, Bengaluru is definitely turning out to be the most vibrant performing arts hub in India. But what has made a paradigm shift is the slow and steady rise of experimental theatre in the city, underpinned by the mushrooming of alternative spaces in the city such as people’s homes, café and libraries. Due to the city’s traffic congestion issues, suburbs are now finding new importance as venues to stage performances, which is an encouraging trend. In terms of marketing and publicity, word-of-mouth still works well for low-budget productions, besides social media promotions. This renders a personal touch to things and allows one to reach out to the right kind of audience. Unlike most other places in the country, spectators here are very loyal. Also Bengaluru being the hub of pop culture, it becomes pertinent for every art form to constantly reinvent and come out with hard-hitting displays, in order to survive and flourish.”
 
 
 
 When it comes to the number of shows that are being conducted in a year, a place like Mumbai would still probably surpass Bengaluru. But having said that, Bengaluru is edging ahead of most cities in India, in terms of innovative practices. Be it the stagecraft, plot or acting skills, people here are experimenting with elements on every level. The global outlook for Bengaluru definitely looks bright and promising. Meanwhile, practitioners should also time and again go back to older scripts and find ways to revive and present them in newer ways. Also, workshops and research play a pivotal role in bringing out better productions, and ensure flawless and profound performances,” says  , theatre personality and co-founder of Jagriti Theatre.
 
 
 
 
 
 
