KOCHI: The   which found that   suffered a loss of Rs 14.85 lakh while acquiring land for widening the   has asked for recovering the amount from councillors, secretary and the inspecting engineer. The burden should be shared equally.

 The audit report for 2015-16 fiscal found that the council decided to provide additional compensation to the land owners without even securing a legal opinion to prove the ownership of the land. This was despite the local body having no power to enhance land value as per rules. In 2014, the district administration and revenue department had fixed the value of land from two land owners for the road widening. Later, in September 2015, on the basis of a request by the land owners, the corporation council decided to enhance the compensation amount.
 
 As per  , the corporation doesn't have the powers to fix or enhance the powers of land acquired.It is up to the revenue department to fix the compensation and land value, the auditors pointed out. Moreover, the corporation officials or council didn't obtain encumbrance certificate to prove that the land they were planning to acquire was free of liabilities. When the local fund audit department checked the documents as part of auditing, they couldn't find any records to establish that those persons who claimed to be the owners of the land were the real owners. “So, the Rs 14.85 lakh given to landowners as additional compensation should be the collective liability of the councillors, corporation secretary and the engineer who was in charge fixing the land value, the audit report stated.
 
 The audit report also found fault with the corporation in regularising buildings construc ted on  . The corporation authorities allotted UA (unauthorized) number to 11 buildings constructed in the 24 Muri colony of the corporation. The authorities decided to allot UA number as the buildings were constructed violating building rules. But the corporation authorities failed to identify a more serious violation. These buildings were constructed in corporation's own land. Rather than evicting the encroachers and taking action against them, the corporation found the minor offence of constructing the buildings violating building rules and regularized the building after slapping fines on them.
 
 In 2015-16 fiscal, the corporation paid Rs 56,92,500 more than the actual amount due for the contractor who was awarded the work of transporting garbage from different parts of the city to the treatment plant at Brahmapuram.
 
 As per the records, the total number of trips by the trucks during the period was 4,153. Of this, only 13 trucks plied two trips, that too for a single time, to Brahamapuram plant during the entire year.
 
 But the corporation authorities gave the rent by multiplying all 4,153 trips with two. In fact, they had to multiply 13 (the number of two trips) with two.This caused the huge loss of Rs 56.92 lakh. The amount should be recovered from the contractor or else the additional secretary and health officer should bear the liability , the audit report states.
 
