 chief minister Akhilesh Yadav spoke to Rohini Singh and Vasudha Venugopal ahead of the crucial Uttar Pradesh elections in February and March. Edited excerpts:
 
  
 
  I feel the people of UP want to vote the SP government back to power. People know that we deliver what we promise. We have fulfilled all the promises we made in the manifesto or we are working in that direction. Now we have a new manifesto and our government has a lot of credibility. Whether it is laptop distribution, Samajwadi pensions, roads, bridges. Kaam bolta hai (Our work speaks) (smiles)
  
  
 
  If we were getting more than 200 seats, now with the   alliance we will get more than 300 seats. Metro, expressway, power, ambulance and our manifesto has made us more formidable. Kabhi handle idhar udhar ho sakta hai kabhi par abhi haath bhi aa gaya hai toh handle ab theek chalega cycle ka (laughs). Pedal toh hum maar hi rahe hai tez. (Sometimes the handle of a cycle can waver. The hand steadies it. We are pedaling fast)
  
  
 
  Congress is fighting in 105 seats. People can say their vote share is less. We know the votes at the booth level too. We are very strong at the booth level. Maybe they are weaker at the booth level. But I feel whatever the percentage of their vote share has been, if it is combined with the Samajwadi Party’s, then the SP will stand to benefit.
  
  
 
  They were entitled to the seats they had won and where they had stood second. Congress national party hai. Agar usko thodi zyaada seatain mil jaati hain tab Samajwadiyon par zyaada bharosa karegi (So if they have got more seats, they will have more faith in us.)
  
  
 
  I don’t want to comment on this because we first have to form the government. There has been no discussion on this as to who will do what. Right now our focus is only on getting maximum seats and defeating communal forces in UP.
  
  
 
  (Laughs) Ab ho sakta 27 saal aur khushaal (The next 27 years will be prosperous)
  
  
 
  The reports we are getting from the ground--the   move for instance has troubled people needlessly. What black money do farmers and poor have? Those people are barely able to make ends meet. They probably have more than more Rs 1,000-2,000 at home. Those people have been harmed the most by demonetisation. They had to stand in queues for several days to get just a few notes changed. Can you imagine how they would have felt?
  
  
 
  Numbers and economists are a different issue--they speak at a different level. All that people know is that they have been damaged financially and their hard-earned money has been called black money. Some of these people don’t even pay taxes because they don’t come within the tax bracket. Labour-intensive industry is facing a problem. Money has been limited. The labourers in Agra have been affected the most. How will people be paid?
  
  
 
  Neither black money nor corruption can be tackled through this. So till the time people are not ready it is very difficult to implement this. You might want to move to a cashless economy. Inko samjhaana padega ki paisa kaala safed nahin hota. Hamara aapka len den kaala safed hota hai. (They need to explain thatmoney is not black or white. Transactions could be illegal or legal) This does not remote corruption.
  
  
 
  Elections are already here. What difference will that make. Sunne main aa raha hai ki akhbaaron main bade bade ads aa rahe hain aur ayenge. (We hear there are big advertisements coming in newspapers). Who’s advertisements are these and what is their cost? (laughs)
  
  
 
  Many traders and industrialists are getting tax notices. Never have traders been hounded so much. Traders tell me when the government launched its amnesty scheme, IT officials were calling traders in every city of the country forcing them to disclose money under the scheme and were setting targets for each one of them. People are angry. Loktantra main jab log naaraaz hain to phir unke paas ek hi hathiyaar hota hai- vote wala. (When people are angry in a democracy they use their vote to express themselves) (Smiles)
  
  
 
  Yes. That is what traders and industrialists have been telling us. They are ready to vote against them. They are very angry.
  
  
 
  Well the RBI officials ought to have thought about that when a poor woman came to their doorstep and they didn’t exchange her money. The whole country knows in whose hands they are playing. I would have called the poor woman inside and exchanged her money. I don’t even know if it was legal what they did because these are promissory notes. The poor don’t understand this but the RBI should explain why they did it to a poor woman who had come to them. I also want to know under which rule they had refused her, her own money. The night demonetisation was announced there was a parikrama in Faizabad. Those pilgrims were carrying old notes and our government helped them out. It is not necessary that help has been within rules. A pandit came here the other day and told us that if the economy becomes completely cashless he would have to roam around with a machine…for daan (laughs).
  
  
 
  Whoever travels on the (Agra-Lucknow) expressway will end up voting for the SP.
  
  
 
  It is possible that since elections are in UP, the centre doesn’t give benefits to the UP. I hope they give good schemes for UP. Let them seek permission to give rightful things to the state. I believe after our manifesto there should be something for the poor. We have promised to give ghee, milk, pressure cooker, spoken of big infrastructure projects.
  
  
 
  We are talking on that. We have several sitting MLAs in these two places.
  
  
 
  That will be difficult for us to say because in these two places SP has won the maximum seats. But let’s see what the discussions throw up. Some seats I had left for them.
  
  
 
  Netaji ka aashirwaad rahega hamesha--this is his party. These values and this political movement, he started all of that and we will take it forward. Who can be happier than him? It is a matter of great honour if a government is repeated in UP. It has not happened in long time in the state.
  
  
 
  I think improving the law and order situation in the state has been substantial work. Dial 100 has had more than one lakh people call for help. We have trained girls who talk very politely to address people’s calls and the police reaches promptly. Our government is also getting to know the reason for these law and order problems.
  
  
 
  Statistics show us fights are mostly in families, domestic violence, fight over land--all this is being documented. We can make a policy on it later. There is no way to predict a crime but I have ensured the policing system has improved significantly. That is reflected on the ground. The system can be improved further. Those people who speak about law and order should tell us what did they do to sustain law and order in the state. Developed countries across the world have the same systems that UP government uses now. May be the central government will copy what we are doing in UP. They won’t say it right now because it is election season (laughs).
  
  
 
  The campaign has started. And whatever politics had to happen is all over. This movement has to go forward and for this we need the support of everybody. Uncle (Amar Singh) ka raasta pata nahin kaun sa hai. Main uspar kuch nahin keh sakta. (smiles and shows a letter written to him by Amar Singh in which he has signed off as ‘Nishkashit’ (Expelled) Uncle.)
  
  
 
  Mukhtar Ansari is now with the BSP. His brother called you anti-minority yesterday. In the last four and a half years that we have been in power, we have never worked to curry favour with anyone. We have stood by them and given them justice. We have given them confidence that the sarkar supports them. The incidents that have happened, they know who was behind them. Our attempts have always been to mainstream them and ensure they get all benefits of government schemes. If we have boundaries for Muslims graveyards, we have also built prayer rooms for Hindus. If we have made a Mughal museum, we have also worked in Varanasi, Mathura, Agra and Ayodhya. We have also worked in Govardhan. Other parties should say what they have done for them.
  
  
 
  
  
 
  They are now in the number three or number four position. Mayawati herself doesn’t know where the bhaichaara committees have disappeared. BSP is in the worst position now. Their leader of opposition has gone away. So many MLAs have deserted her. The reason why this is happening to her is because in the last election, at every booth of hers, she got her votes transferred to the BSP. If she hadn’t done that, she wouldn’t have ended with zero seats. Now will she tell people who are the people she is standing with?
  
  
 
  BJP is no longer in the fight. They are not able to understand what to do. All roads are blocked for them. They have done no work. The public doesn’t trust them. They used to say about me that there are four and a half CMs in UP There is so much of protest over their ticket distribution. Their good workers have not got tickets.
  
  
 
  There is a saying in Hindi--Dhool me lath lag gaya (laughs). I don’t know how you will translate that in English. He became an MP and he became the state president… Now he has gotten an opportunity to speak, so he is saying whatever is coming into his head. He has no idea what to do and where to go in UP. All the promises the BJP made in UP have failed.
  
  
 
  I think now things have changed a lot. People have smartphones and access to media and internet. They know what is good for them. They want development, jobs and progress. They are aspirational. Today there is nothing hidden in a democracy. We are a transparent society now. Nobody can fool people anymore. They have been fooled by them earlier.
  
  
 
  The BJP would want elections on those lines. But the people of UP are now very wary of them.
  
  
 
  Our party got a lot of votes from there. We have MLAs from there. This time, the public there is waiting for us. When the cycle symbol was awarded to us, the people of western UP were the happiest.
  
  
 
  (Smiles) She is an MP. She must make the people in her constituency win. Also I would request her that she campaigns for women candidates. If she goes to those places, results would be better.
  
  
 
  I think jo UP mein rehta hai, who zyaada kaam kar payega. Jo Dilli mein pahunch jaata hai, woh desh ka kaam nahi kar paata hai. (If you stay in UP, you can do a lot of work. If you go to Delhi, you’re not able to do the nation’s work.)I am happy in UP. 
