GURUGRAM: Burglars broke into the house of a doctor living in South City-I and made off with over Rs 6 lakh in cash and jewellery worth around Rs 3 lakh.

 Preliminary probe suggests that the break-in at the house No. P-64 took place between May 21 and May 24 when Dr Satyan Sehgal and wife Sujata Sehgal were out of town along with the entire family. 
 
 In her police complaint filed late on Wednesday night, Sujata said they received a call from one of their neighbours, who informed them about the burglary, on May 24. She, who was in Almora then, immediately left for Gurgaon. 
 
 She claimed that apart from Rs 6.5 lakh in cash, gold chains, finger rings and some silver items were missing from the house. 
 
 Acting on the complaint a police team from Sector 40 police station, along with a finger print expert, visited the house and collected evidence for more than an hour. 
 
 An FIR has been lodged against unidentified burglars under sections 454 (house breaking) and 380 (theft) of the IPC. But, the police are yet to make any headway in the case.
 
 “We had gone to Almora (Uttarakhand) on May 21 and our maid was also on leave. So there was no one in the house. On Wednesday evening, one of our neighbours called me and told me about the burglary, after he found that the lock on the front door of our house broken. My wife immediately left Almora for Gurgaon, late in the night. I along with the rest of the family returned on Thursday,” Dr Satyan Sehgal told TOI.
 
 He claimed this was not the first time when valuables were stolen from the house. “Two years back, two women, who had applied for a job of maid at our place, also duped us and robbed us of cash, jewellery and other valuables. Even before the police could solve that case, we have been targeted again,” he rued.
 
 “The thieves have been targeting our area, mostly locked houses, repeatedly, ” said a neighbour of the Sehgals.
 
 “We have lodged an FIR and are investigating the matter. There was no CCTV camera at the house, but we are trying to identify the burglars with the help of CCTV footage from the nearby area. We are on the job and expect to arrest the accused soon, ” said ASI Mangal Singh, the investigating officer.In another incident, burglars broke into a house in Sushant Lok-III, Sector 57 area, on Wednesday.They fled with jewellery, cameras, watches and other valuables. On the complaint of Preeti Singh, the victim, an FIR has been registered at the Sector 56 police station. 
 
 
