HUBBALLI:   (HDMC) and police are trying hard to streamline traffic movement in the twin cities. But their efforts are nullified due to haphazard parking of vehicles. 

 Earlier, traffic jam was less on Lamington Road. But since the past few days, traffic problem has been quite common from Mini Vidhana Soudha to  . The gridlock could be attributed to parking of vehicles on the roadside. This is also posing threat to the lives of people, who are visiting Mini Vidhan Soudha for official work,   for treatment and other places.
 
 There is a sharp left turn near Suburban police station towards railway station and  . Vehicles, including city buses and the ones to Gadag and Koppal ply on this road frequently. Elderly people and women are the worst affected and criticize police and civic authorities for not acting tough against those who park their vehicles on the roadside.
 
 Sangappa Chalvadi, 62 and a resident of Old Hubballi, said that the road in front of the HDMC is congested due to the ongoing work on BRTS bus stop. "People who visit the HDMC office park their vehicles on the roadside and others are parking their car and other vehicles on the roadside, because of which traffic movement is getting affected badly," he said.
 
 Shivaraj A, an employee of a private firm who visited Chitaguppi Hospital, said that it is difficult to cross the road in the evening. "Vehicles are parked on the roadside and also vehicles move very fast on the road. There is no traffic signal in front of Chitaguppi Hospital gate is not working for the past few days. Police manually maintain the traffic, but they never bother to removing illegally parked vehicles. Sometimes, even ambulance gets struck in the traffic," he said.
 
 Mallikarjun Baladandi, deputy commissioner of police (crime and traffic), admitted to the traffic problem. "Recently, cases were booked against vehicles owners for parking on the roadside and creating hurdles in traffic movement. We will put an end to parking on the roadside. Officers will be asked to initiate action," he said.
 
