Chennai: Fairfax-owned Thomas Cook is bullish about growth in India and is looking to increase its global footprint by acquiring smaller companies. Madhavan Menon, CMD, Thomas Cook India Group, speaks to TOI on taking on competition and development of the company. Excerpts:

 How do you envision the development of the company from where it stands today?
 
 From an Indian company, we want to develop into a firm with an Indian domicile and a global footprint. And in this regard, we acquired Quess Corp, followed by Kuoni in Hong Kong and India. We have made Sita, which we acquired completely, as the horizontal for inbound tourism to India. Likewise, we plan to have such companies in South Africa, Australia, etc. 
 
 Recently, we acquired destination management business of Kuoni to expand our global footprint.
 
 With plans set to expand international tourism, what is the company doing to cater to the increasing number of domestic travellers?
 
 We have two-brand approach to domestic travellers – through Thomas Cook and SOTC. We make close to Rs 100 crore from the former and Rs 50-60 crore from the latter. In the coming two years, we foresee an opportunity to grow up to Rs 500 crore from domestic tourism alone. Our advertisements these days also have local and international offers together.
 
 What do you think of the aggregator model in the travel and tourism industry which is dominated by the likes of Airbnb, Make My Trip and Oyo?
 
 The aggregator model is not feasible and the existing models just burn investor money. We operate in the packaged holiday space and we have an annualised repeat rate of 10%-12%. That said, we are open for alliances and we have tied up with Oyo Rooms, Uber and Airbnb to provide our packaged tours and our target is the middle-income groups.
 
 How is the travel industry changing? What are the trends that you’re seeing?
 
 There are more individual travellers, who are taking shorter vacations. The booking cycles have become shorter and there are ad-hoc groups – extended families, friends or those with a common interest. We are designing packages for them and this is a growing segment. 
 
 We are also seeing an uptick in the recurring deposit options we have set aside for travellers. We have also made the option location-agnostic.
 
 
 
