RAJKOT: Flood waters in   and north Gujarat started receding on Sunday morning as there was no overnight heavy rainfall even as hectic rescue and relief operations were undertaken in villages that were marooned in Morbi and   districts. 

 However, the situation remained grim in some downstream areas of Machhu dam near Maliya Miyana with large number of people stranded in Juna Anjiyasar and Nava Anjiyasar which were flooded by the water released from dams.
 
 Sources said at least 300 people are stranded and have taken shelter on their rooftops as water has gushed into houses.
 
 In Rajkot, a 12-year-old boy Ahmed Kapasi drowned in Aji river on Sunday. Kapasi and his friend, who live in Bedipara, had gone to see the water overflowing near Kesari bridge where the former’s leg slipped. His body was fished out after five hours. Sources also said hectic efforts are on to trace N D Jadeja, a taluka development officer in Jamnagar district, who was swept away after his car got stuck in gushing waters on Saturday. In Ratanpar village of Surendranagar, two youths were swept away in Bhogavo river. Efforts are on to locate bodies.
 
 A team of fire brigade and district administration rescued 70 persons in fishing boats from low-lying areas and gave them shelter at a school in Maliya. Around 171 people in other villagers downstream of Machhu shifted to safer locations themselves after the dam water was released.
 
 Meanwhile, a family of lab-ourers was struck by lightning near Hadiyana village of Jamnagar. Suresh Vashumiya (22) died while his wife and three kids were hospitalized.
 
 INS Valsura’s help was also sought in marooned villages near Dhrol and Alia Bada near Jamnagar. “INS Valsura immediately deputed search and rescue teams in Dhrol and Alia Bada area to rescue people from marooned areas and shift them to safer areas. Two teams with divers, life guards, rescue equipment and medical supplies were deployed on Saturday and Sunday,” according to an official statement. 
 
 A  , relief commissioner, said, "The situation is normalizing as there was no heavy rain. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams rescued 19 people stranded in Jeetnagar near Jodiya in Jamnagar district."
 
 Shah said the district administration has begun survey of damages in Jamnagar, Morbi and Tankara which received incessant rains for three days.
 
 
