KANPUR: After two months of hand-rearing the two strayed leopard cubs, the   on Friday were given the responsibility of raising two more   who had got separated from their mother. The cubs were handed over to Kanpur zoo by the forest department on Friday morning. 

 These cubs, rescued from   in Bijnor district in  , after getting separated from their mother had strayed into fields and fallen in a well. A forest department team after rescuing the cubs shifted them to Kanpur zoo where they are being hand-fed by the zoo vets. 
 
 It may be mentioned that about two months back, two leoaprd cubs, who had also got separated from their mother, were shifted to Kanpur zoo. As chances of their survival were dim, therefore zoo vets had to hand feed them. They have now been shifted to a larger enclosure on the zoo campus where they are given meat and milk in their feed. 
 
 The vets are hand-feeding the leopard cubs rescued from Bijnor. They said the cubs, which now weigh about 1200 gms to 1400 gms are quite active and playful and are looking for their mother leopard. Gradually, they will adjust in the zoo environment, they added. 
 
 At present, one-month old cubs have been housed in a small enclosure. "The have a beautiful dotted coat and roar in meek voice on getting hungry. The meek roar is also an indication of their search for the mother leopard", said a zoo vet. 
 
 Talking to TOI, zoo vet, Dr RK Singh said, "In the beginning, the cubs were a bit scared in the new environment but after being de-stressed by medication they have become active. While the male cub is about 1230 grams in weight, female weighs 1310 grams".
 
 Another zoo vet Dr   said that the farmers in Jhala village in Bijnor had set a field on fire which forced the mother leopard to run for her life. "The cubs also ran in different direction to save themselves and thus got separated from their mother and unfortunately fell into a well. The villagers informed officials of the forest department who rescued the cubs and handed them to us. After primary medication and treatment, they became active and are responding well", said Dr Srivastava.
 
 He said that Amul milk full cream is being given to them to satisfy their appetite. Every two hours, the cubs are consuming 40 ml of milk, he added.
 
 
