KOTTAYAM/THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Toms College of Engineering in Mattakkara, which ran into a controversy over harassment of students by the college management, has got the extension of approval (EOA) for one more year from the   ( ).

 The EOA was extended on the basis of the report of an expert committee that visited the college on March 13. The   (KTU) had earlier conducted two inspections at the college and recommended action against it after students raised allegations against the management over its misconduct to students and lack of infrastructure facilities. 
 
 The AICTE committee, however, rejected the claims of the university that the college did not possess enough land and infrastructure facilities as prescribed by the AICTE. The standing hearing committee of the AICTE, after considering the arguments of the university and the college authorities, approved the university’s request for permission to transfer some of the students to neighbouring AICTE-approved institutions. 
 
 The Standing hearing committee, however, on the basis of the report of the expert committee that visited the college, came to the conclusion that “the observations/recommendations of the committee, in line with AICTE norms are found satisfactory and there is no reason for denial of extension of approval (EOA) for the academic year 2017-18”.
 
 Around 80 students (chemical engineering, first and second semester together) had approached the university seeking option for leaving the college and joining other colleges that offer the same course. Twenty among them, however, expressed their wish to continue their studies at Toms College.
 
 The expert committee, which included an advocate, to verify the property documents of  , reported that the institution has 10 acres and 56 cents land and fulfilled the AICTE norms. “The institution has sufficient physical civil infrastructure and qualified faculty to run the prescribed classes. It has the required laboratory infrastructure and has produced good results,” the report said.
 
 The committee also recorded in its report that “a group of students and their parents have complained about the facilities, faculties and over strictness of administration. They have also raised complaints about the behaviour of the chairman of the trust, which may be separately investigated”.
 
 “Similarly, some students and parents have talked about the hard work and efforts of the chairman and have no complaints against him,” the report said. Following the AICTE order, KTU has on Thursday set up a committee comprising the representatives of AICTE, directorate of Technical education and the university to oversee the migration of students who wish to move out to other colleges. 
 
 
