NAGPUR: Chief minister   on Friday exhorted young   to enhance knowledge, quality and contribute to the society. He was speaking at a function organized by   (VLLA) and Bhandarkar family to felicitate junior lawyers, in memory of former Nagpur University vice chancellor Late PL Bhandarkar.

 Senior administrative judge at Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court Bhushan Gavai, Advocate General Rohit Deo, guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule, VLLA President Padma Chandekar and secretary Ritu Kalia shared the dais. A plethora of dignitaries, including high court judges, senior lawyers, DBA President Prakash Jaiswal, and others from legal fraternity attended the event at the high court auditorium.
 
 While applauding VLLA and Bhandarkar family, particularly noted lawyer Shreerang and wife Anjali, for starting such awards, the CM regretted absence of any institutional mechanism to identify and encourage talented young lawyers. 
 
 Calling on junior lawyers to work for getting justice for deprived sections, Fadnavis reminded them that the society doesn’t remember those who only earn money out of the profession.
 
 Citing the likes of Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Patel and ex-US President Abraham Lincoln, justice Gavai said all of them left behind their thriving legal practice to serve the society. “Don’t run behind money in your youth days or make it a yardstick. Make efforts to gain knowledge and make your foundation strong. There is no limit to success, once you gain knowledge. Your commitment should always be to your nation and the profession,” he said.
 
 Deo called on HCBA and senior lawyers to take a cue from Bhandarkar family for setting a precedent by starting such awards. “We saw a generation of lawyers, who were demotivated for lack of encouragement. But these new lawyers are more studied. They need encouragement and Bhandarkar family has done what it promised,” he said.
 
 Earlier, three junior lawyers from two categories were felicitated by the dignitaries. Their names were selected by a jury led by former family court principal judge Meera Khadakkar. Senior counsel Sunil Manohar, former High Court Bar Association (HCBA) President Arun Patil, additional public prosecutor Jyoti Vajani and Kalpana Pathak, were other members on the jury.
 
