 is back in the game with   For someone, who has easily balanced working with both top heroes and young breed of actors, Venkat didn't really have it that easy as it is made out to be. Some films worked, a few others didn't. But that didn't deter the spirit of this 'ever cool' director. He enthusiastically speaks about getting back to form with a sequel, working with big heroes, and wanting to work with  , and another film with  '

 
 
 Initially, it was difficult as there were a lot of expectations when I announced the sequel. Chennai 600028 is a brand. I didn't want to call it a sequel and do a hasty job. I wanted to make an honest attempt and connect a lot of things that were there in the first part. It feels happy to know that people accepted the film. Usually, when I write a script, I always think what scenes/dialogues audience might enjoy, clap or hoot for. Sometimes it works, and other times, it does not. But for this film, luckily, people loved the fun moments. Also, for me, getting the boys back was easy. Even though they had moved on with their careers, the moment I called them for the project, they readily agreed to come on board. It was fun shooting with the team. I usually don't have village backdrops in my films. In this, I wanted to reach the B and C centre audiences. So, we shot major portions near my hometown in Theni, Thenkasi and Kutralam. It was fun, yet peaceful shooting there. We finished the film by June and were supposed to release the film much in advance. But my editor got busy with Kabali's release. Usually, if the editors are held up, they get their assistants to do the basic first cut. But I didn't allow his assistants to cut my film. Shooting the match portions was difficult and editing them was an even a bigger process. So, he came to me after Kabali's release. Otherwise, we would have released the film in September or October. But I am glad that the film did well despite the demonetisation effect. Of course, it would have made more money in B and C centers if the financial situation didn't happen at that time.
 
 
 
 Work-wise, it's all the same. But these young boys, trust me a lot. If I keep a particular scene, they will do it without a second thought. For big heroes, I have to satisfy the actor and keep their fans in mind when I write the script. For instance, Suriya sir expects a lot of logic. He doesn't expect larger-than-life scenes as he wants it to be more believable. Masss was a fantasy film. If one person can see a ghost, he should be able to see every other ghost, too. That was our logic. But it didn't click as much it should have. Later, I felt we should have made it more fun. When I first narrated the script to Suriya, I wrote it as a simple love story with fun elements. He even liked it and was open to doing it my way. There was a lot of pressure put on me and I felt confused. We made it heavy and it didn't work.
 
 
 
 Honestly, I don't know. Many actors have certain expectations or have a mindset. For many directors, working that way has worked. But that didn't work for me. Mankatha was a hit, Biriyani did OK and Masss didn't do as expected. But my most favourite film that I have done until now is Masss. We did it with a lot of passion and took note of several details. When you watch the film closely, you will know how much work has gone into it. I couldn't understand why it didn't have a good run at the box office. Later, I sat down and realised that I wanted to do something I was more comfortable with. That's how the sequel of Chennai 600028 happened. I began the writing process, imagining that Premgi's character was getting married. The crux was the friends reuniting irrespective of the uncertainty behind the marriage. Then we changed it, as I felt   can't do romance (laughs). If Jai sings a duet, people will accept. But Premgi can't express that emotion well on screen. So, edhukku vambu? I made him the guy who didn't get married, which got him all the laughs. I am glad to know that I still haven't lost it.
 
 
 
 Actors today want to do something that's socially positive. They are keen on playing do-gooders or responsible characters. If you are a good guy, there should be a bad guy. They have to save the world, they have to stand up for public rights, they have to support college students in their fight, etc. It boils down to becoming the same. Rajinikanth and Kamal Haasan have done a variety of roles during the peak of their career. They have played good guys, villain roles and have even done playboy characters, too. If you take films like Aarilirunthu Arubathu Varai, there is absolutely no heroism at all. Even in Bollywood, they take risks. For instance, a big star like Aamir Khan did a film like Dangal. He has a bigger market than our stars, and yet, took the risk. We have a smaller market comparatively, but our stars think twice to experiment. Everybody wants to be the good guy. If they are willing to experiment with roles, many directors will be happy. We can think of a lot more new characters and I am sure their fans, too, want to see them in varied roles.
 
 
 
 I am doing a film for Amma Creations (for Siva). It was a long pending idea and we finally decided to do it now. The casting is not finalised yet. But the genre will be something along the lines of Delhi Belly ' a dark comedy. It will be a fun subject and completely different from what I have done before. And yes, a sequel to Saroja is also in the pipeline. It is a nice idea'would do it someday.
 
 
 
 I would love to do a romantic subject. I loved some of the films that came in the 90s, like Only You and French Kiss. I would do a nice travel love story with some great songs.And yes, I have done a film with Thala. I want to do a film with Ilayathalapathy, too. I also want to work with Suriya again. He's such a charming actor'I want to do a fun comedy with him.
 
 
