HYDERABAD: Colonel, the cat, saunters out of a small room, his missing front limb can't dampen his style. He's just given up his favourite towel-donned chair to the arrival of visitors and is eyeing it from the corridor. Laughing at his sense of entitlement, actor and animal rights activist  , says, “This is my chair, but he thinks he's boss.“

 Colonel is among the many inmates of   Hyderabad (BCH), which has just entered its 25th year. As he reinstalls himself in the room, little does he or the 600-odd residents know the place they call home is in the cusp of change.
 
 Known for its rescue operations and providing shelter to wounded animals, funds starved BCH is shutting doors to these services. Except for a few critical animals, it will no longer take the umpteen distress cases that pile on its doorstep every day. The job of first-respondent will be entrusted to government facilities.
 
 Detailing BCH's future role, Amala, its founder, says it will now primarily be a training centre, dispensing critical knowledge to government stakeholders and other concerned individuals.
 
 While the news may be a disappointment to animal lovers, who have come to depend on BCH ­ the organisation has rescued over 4 lakh animals over the years - Amala says the move was necessary. With inadequate funding and premises already being over-crowded, BCH has been struggling to make space for new inmates. “People are dumping almost 50 animals a day in a shelter that can house just about 400. We have to look at the situation from a practical point of view.“
 
 Turning away animals has been a concern for long, with people often threatening the skeletal staff at the premises. “People handling our helpline have become like zombies. Almost every other caller is nasty and makes them feel like lesser human beings for saying we can't handle more animals,“ Amala says, adding, “This is a hospital. You can use the OP facilities. Animals can be sterilised here, but this is not a dumping ground.“ In fact, training others would speed prognosis, she says.
 
 Speaking about the funds crunch, she says with purse strings tightening post-demonetisation, donations are a trickle. A normal surgery could easily rake up a bill of '20,000 and above, she says, and few would pay that much for treatment of strays. Corporate donors too would rather focus on welfare measures than spend on an animal that cannot be saved.
 
 About support she gets from her family, she says, laughing, that there are hardly any celebrations anymore, just cheques handed ­ for the Blue Cross. With nine animals in their home and many outside, she says it's a matter of making room for them in “your day, your heart and your account“. At the age of six, Amala rescued her first animal. She says her mother never discouraged her, not even when she saw that first sick crow under the curl of her arm, crawling with flees. With each rescue, her mother would merely roll her eyes, give her a box and drive her to a vet.She would allow her to go through their deaths, pick herself up and again go on to rescue the next animal.
 
 And the care over the years has come a full circle. At the Blue Cross, the dogs we meet gush with love: the one doing the pirouettes; the quiet one that can't see; even the strays that have lost limbs. Maimed, they may be, but in their love they are whole.
 
 When asked if she regrets her long hiatus from acting, a time she has used to focus on animal rights issues, she doesn't look up from the dogs vying for her attention, and says, “Not in the least bit.“
 
