LUCKNOW: The family of   officer  , who was found dead on road in Lucknow, lodged a   case against unknown persons after their meeting with chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Hours later, UP’s principal secretary (home) said that the government was prepared to send the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation ( ) for a thorough probe.

 The 2007 batch officer of Karnataka cadre was found dead outside Meerbai Marg guest house in the city on May 17 and his family members had expressed apprehension about foul play. However as they were busy with his last rites in their native town Bahraich, the FIR was lodged on Monday when Anurag’s brother and mother arrived in the city.
 
 After their meeting with Yogi early in the day, Anurag’s elder brother Mayank Tewari, who is the complainant in the case, said that the chief minister had assured them that nobody would go unpunished and matter would be probed thoroughly. Yogi asked the family to give a police compliant and assured them that his government would forward their plea to Union government, recommending CBI probe.
 
 Principal secretary (home) Arvind Kumar later confirmed that government had decided to approach Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) recommending a CBI inquiry in the matter.
 
 Soon after meeting the CM, the family was called by SSP Deepak Kumar at his residence. Mayank submitted a complaint before Kumar which stated that his brother had been transferred seven to 8 eight times in the 10 years of service in Karnataka. He has also mentioned in the complaint Anruag had mentioned to him that he was being pressured to sign some papers against his will.
 
 Anurag was under tremendous pressure from the last few months and two months confided into him that his life was under threat, Mayank stated in the complaint. “As his body was found in suspicious circumstances, we have lodged an FIR under Section 302 of the IPC against unknown persons,” said Kumar.
 
 Revealing the details of the threat, Mayank produced screen shots of WhatsApp chats between him and his brother that had taken place on March 27 and 28. He also shared the screen shots with police.
 
 
