PUNE: March is turning out to be a cruel month with an anti-cyclone   condition looming ahead to heat up Maharashtra as well as  .

 India Meteorological Department ( ) has forecast temperatures soaring up to 40°C for Pune and   after Saturday. The rest of the state may also have hot days since the   will suppress cloud formation which will increase solar radiation. 
 
 In the past 10 years, the highest March day temperature in Pune has ranged between 38°C and 39.1°C. For Mumbai, the mercury hit 40°C thrice in March in 2011, 2013 and 2015 though the normal day temperature for the coastal city is 32.5°C for this month.
 
 A senior IMD official told TOI that the state has finally begun to exhibit summer temperatures after below normal temperatures in the last few days. 
 
 “Pune’s normal maximum temperature for March is 36°C, but we have forecast a rise of about four degrees in the next few days due to an anti-cyclone prevailing over Maharashtra and Central India. This anti-cyclone is bound to cause clear skies in Pune, with only specks of clouds,” the official said.
 
 After March 28, the day temperature may fall by a degree to 39°C in Pune.
 
 Similarly, interior parts of the state will experience a rise in day temperatures too. In Konkan and Goa, including Mumbai, day temperatures will gradually begin to rise after two or three days, the official said.
 
 On Thursday, IMD’s Shivajinagar observatory recorded a maximum temperature of 37.7°C, while its Lohegaon observatory recorded day temperature at 38.6°C. 
 
 Mumbai’s day temperature on Thursday was near normal, at 31.4 °C.
 
 Mahesh Palawat, chief meteorologist from Skymet weather services, said there is no significant weather activity expected in Central India, including Maharashtra in the next few days. 
 
 “The skies here will remain sunny. Inland winds blowing from the northeast over Central India, including Pune and Mumbai, will warm the region considerably. These winds blow from the land region which heats up during summer. They are warmer in comparison to winds blowing from the ocean,” he said.
 
 He added that hot days and dry weather are expected to continue for the next few days over Vidarbha and Marathwada regions of Maharashtra,   and Madhya Maharashtra.
 
 The highest March day temperature for Pune since 2008 is 39.1°C, recorded twice more in 2012 and 2016. 
 
 For Mumbai, the mercury had climbed up to 40.8°C in March 2015, 40.5°C in March 2013 and 41.3°C in March 2011.
 
