KOLKATA: The 16-year-old daughter of Ajay Shah (47) cried and pleaded for help as her father slumped in front of her eyes on an  , but apparently nobody in the park extended a helping hand. “I wish no one ever experiences this in their life. I want justice for my father,” said the Ria Shah on Thursday. 

 Ajay, his wife Shital and their two children Ria (16) and Aryan (8) went to   with three other relatives on May 16. Around 3pm, Ajay and his brother-in-law   climbed to the starting point of the Raft Slide, a water slide with multiple curves and loops culminating in a shallow pool at the bottom. Shah, however, got stuck midway and fell unconscious.
 
 The victim’s family has already lodged a negligence complaint against the park authorities.
 
 Ria, a Class-XI student of South Point High School, has already shared her plight on Facebook and till Thursday evening it was shared 535 times. The family of the 47-year-old branch manager of a tyre manufacturing company, who was taken ill on a water slide at Aquatica and died shortly after, had lodged a complaint of negligence against the amusement park and the nursing home on Wednesday.
 
 The family allegedly pleaded for help from the park officials, who ignored their pleas and the widow had to climb up herself to bring him down. Investigating into the case, police have started a case of negligence against the park authorities and the nursing home. 
 
 On Thursday, officers of Kolkata Leather Complex police station called the park manager and recorded his statement. “We have recorded the park official’s statement and have asked the family to submit documents like the park entry fee bill and other proofs, which are vital for the investigation,” said an officer.
 
 Santosh Kumar, manager, operations of the mall said: “We have CCTV footages but the hard disc stores only footages of the last seven days and then it auto-rewrites. If cops want we can submit the hard discs and they can recover the images if possible.” 
 
 On being asked about the alleged lack of facilities at the park, Kumar said: “We have first aid facilities that are useful in cuts and bruises but if there is some major accident or someone falls ill, we have a tie up with the nearest nursing home. We did the same with Ajay Shah.”
 
 Shah’s last rites will be performed on Friday at Shah’s parent’s house at  . “My family has broken down. I don’t know how our education would be funded,” said Ria.
 
 
