NAGPUR: The city is set to get a centrally funded 200-bedded hospital of Employees’   (ESIC) at Butibori, the second in the state after Mumbai. The hospital’s construction is likely to begin from next month.

 There is an   funded by the state government at Somwarpeth. There was a need for another one to cater to a large number of industrial workers at Butibori. The city chapter of Indian   (INTUC) has been fighting for the cause since the last eight years.
 
 INTUC secretary   said, “The existing ESIC hospital in the city is around 25km away from MIDC, Butibori. There are about 25,000 insured workers at Butibori for whom dispensary was the only option.”
 
 “Realizing the need of an ESIC hospital, we have been struggling to get it approved from the central government since the last eight years. We were trying to get the centrally funded hospital as the state government don’t spend much on it. The hospitals built by the Centre are modernized and provide advance treatment,” Muley said.
 
 “At present, such centrally funded ESIC hospitals exist at Mumbai Hyderabad and Delhi. With so much concentration of workers, why can’t Nagpur get such a hospital?” he said.
 
 “The Centre took a lot of time to approve the project. It’s policy is to have such hospitals for a population of 50,000 workers. There are 25,000 workers at Butibori. We submitted a proposal to the Centre including the workers from Hingna, taking the total to 50,000. Hence, things worked out in our favour,” Muley said.
 
 The project finally received Centre’s approval on February 20. Muley said, “We are making efforts to start the hospital’s construction in April.”
 
 “In another decision by the central government, various unrecognized workers will also get insurance cover from August. Until now, dispensaries used to keep records of workers for keeping medicine stock. There are 16 dispensaries in Vidarbha of which 12 are in Nagpur district, while another four are at Chandrapur, Amravati, Akola and Hinganghat,” he said.
 
 “Workers and their dependents from places like Wardha and Kalmeshwar which lack dispensaries were unrecognized. From August, 50,000 such workers from Vidarbha will get insurance cover,” Muley said.
 
 “Also, efforts are being taken to bring anganwadi and Asha workers under insurance cover. The government will take a decision on the matter soon,” he added.
 
