BENGALURU: A 25-year-old woman from Uganda was stabbed to death with a kitchen knife, allegedly by her friend, in her house in Kothanur, near  , early on Thursday morning.
The murder caused trouble in the area where African students live.About 70 Nigerian and Ugandan students allegedly attacked policemen and da maged the windows of two police vehicles.
 
 Police resorted to lathicharge to disperse the crowd and deployed a   platoon. Poli ce arrested Ishan Sul, the woman's friend, who the house owner had locked into the ro om. Sul, a resident of BTM Layout and from Himachal Pradesh, shifted to Bengaluru in August 2016 after finishing MTech in Delhi. Home minister   said he had discussed the issue with the police commissioner. “The accused has been arrested and the motive behind the murder is being investigated. The nuisance by foreign students studying here has increased.I will discuss the issue with the chief minister and Union government officials,“ he said.
 
 Police said the woman,  , lived in a single-bedroom house in Thimme Gowda Layout, Kothanur. She arrived in Bengaluru in 2014 on a student visa, which was due to expire on February 15 this year.
 
 Florence was stabbed at least six times in the neck, said police, who recovered the kitchen knife used in the crime. Blood samples from the wall and kitchen floor were collected, an investigating officer said.
 
 Police said their prelimi nary investigations revealed that Florence met Ishan Sul at a pub on Brigade Road on Wednesday night. “Sul claims he met her for the first time but we need to check this. We will check call records to find out whether they knew each other before,“ the officer said.
 
 “Sul claims Florence invited him to her room for Rs 5,000 and he agreed,“ an investigating officer said.They took a cab from Brigade Road around 12.30am and reached her house around 1am. On entering the house, Sul gave her Rs 5,000, but Florence demanded more money and a quarrel broke out, police said.
 
 “She asked me to pay Rs 10,000 or leave. I refused. She pulled out a kitchen knife and threatened me,“ Sul said in a statement to police.
 
 He shouted at Florence and asked her to return the money he had paid. She refused and allegedly attacked Sul with the knife. “I thought she would kill me. I snatched the knife and stabbed her in the neck,“ Sul told police.Florence died instantly .
 
 Hearing screams, building owner Umesh Kumar and his mother-in-law   rushed to the house. Seeing Florence in a pool of blood, they locked the main door from outside and informed the police control room. Koththanur police arrived around 2.30am and arrested Sul.
 
 In her statement to police, Vanajamma said she heard screams around 1am. “We ran next door and looked through the main window. I saw Florence on the floor.There was blood on the wall, on the floor and on the window,“ she said. Sul was crouching on the floor, his head in his hands, she said.
 
 Her son-in-law Umesh rents seven rooms in the three-floor building next to his house to African students. “Florence stayed on the second floor. She said she was a student and worked part time. She rented the house in March 2016 and paid Rs 7,000 a month,“ she said.
 
 The body has been moved to Ambedkar hospital for autopsy . “We have contacted the Ugandan embassy and FRRO officials. No one has come forward to claim the body ,“ a senior police officer said.
 
 Residents of Thimme Gowda Layout complain that students cause trouble almost every night. More than 10,000 students from different parts of the country and the world live in these localities, police said.
 
