CHENNAI: The   won the trust vote on Saturday, but not before five hours of high drama in the   as DMK members created a ruckus, stood on tables, flung chairs, tore up papers and poured water on marshals called to evict them. In the melee, the speaker’s table was overturned, his mike was broken and DMK members sat on his chair after he left the House. 

 After the DMK members were evicted by more than 100 marshals, and eight Congress and one IUML members walked out in protest, the confidence motion was put to vote. Palaniswami’s government won with 122 votes, while rebel leader O   mustered the support of 11MLAs. In the morning, when Speaker P Dhanapal asked the CM to put the confidence motion to vote, unruly scenes were witnessed.
 
 Speaker Dhanapal refused to heed a key demand of the DMK — a secret ballot that they argued would reflect the “truth” since the AIADMK MLAs had been sequestered at aresort for nearly 10 days. DMK also demanded that the motion be taken up at a later date. “Even though the governor gave time to move the motion within 15 days, the session has been convened in 48 hours. Why the hurry?” leader of the opposition Stalin said, setting off a heated debate.
 
  As DMK members rushed to the well of the House and laid siege near the speaker’s chair, he had to be escorted out by the marshals. MLAs K K Selvam and B Ranganathan took turns to sit on the speaker’s chair after he left. When the House met again at 1pm, Dhanapal showed his torn shirt and said he had been humiliated by the DMK members. Stalin said the speaker was politicising the issue since he had met him at his chamber and expressed regret. As pandemonium continued, Dhanapal pointed out that he was vested with discretionary powers to decide on the method of voting on a motion. 
 
 The agitated DMK MLAs were on their feet, raising slogans and some, including former ministers Poongothai Aladi Aruna and Geetha Jeevan, even stood on the benches, prompting the Speaker to summon marshals to evict them. There was complete chaos when the marshals picked up MLAs S Duraimurugan, E V Velu and Vagai Chandrasekar. Egmore MLA K S Ravichandran and a few others went and sat on the treasury benches. 
 
 Amid unruly scenes, the speaker again adjourned the House till 3pm, but Stalin told his MLAs to resume their seats and so did the treasury benches. Palaniswami and his council of ministers remained in the House too. Raising slogans, the DMK MLAs continued to keep the momentum going until the marshals entered again to evict the MLAs. Many marshals — some belonging to the city police — were mobilised to handle the 88 agitating MLAs led by Stalin, who was heard warning the marshals that his MLAs would commit suicide if they were forced out. The marshals moved away, but only to turn up in huge numbers. At 2.25pm, Stalin walked to the centre of the walkway between the treasury and opposition rows to hold a sit in-protest.
 
  His MLAs soon followed him. Commotion ensued when the marshals dragged the MLAs one after another physically, and in the melee, senior leader I Periasamy’s white dhoti came undone. MLAs T R B Raaja, Mano Thangaraj and Vagai Chandrasekar were evicted from the House by more than five marshals. When it was Stalin’s turn, the DMK leader struck his head repeatedly with his hands, signalling frustration. The women MLAs walked out quietly. Later, the speaker took up voting through division, in which members supporting the trust vote were made to stand for a head count, followed by naysayers. DMK president M Karunanidhi did not attend the assembly. AIADMK MLA P R G Arunkumar from Coimbatore North abstained from voting.
 
 
