GURGAON: Carlos Pigem had a sleepless Wednesday night. Hailing from Sleida, Spain, just 150 kms from Barcelona, you could tell which football club he had the allegiance to. Telling his friend that the Catalans would beat PSG 6-1, and he would dream about it, the 26-year-old suddenly woke up at 4 am to see that the wish had indeed come true. Switching on YouTube, he struggled to sleep for another hour with excitement.

 It was a similar feeling that engulfed him on Saturday afternoon but he promised himself a good night's sleep. Sharing the leaderboard limelight at 6-under with home favourite   and Englishman  , he was eager to come back the next day to finish his third round on a high and hopefully, gain momentum for a triumphant finish at the $1.75m  .
 
 “It's a shame I had to finish today,” said Pigem after sinking 5 birdies at the DLF G&CC, despite a hiccup on the sixth. “I have a short birdie putt on the 12th when I come back in the morning and I hope it sets me up for a good day.”
 
 He has been enjoying his fifth year on the Asian Tour but like the other golfers making their way round this tricky   Black Knight course, there has been a lot of learning.“The most important thing here is to have patience. You need to know when you can be aggressive and when you should be more conservative. That's the key.”
 
 For SSP, it was the matter of sticking to the same game plan. “I just want to hit straight, keep the ball in play and keep giving myself chances all the time. The 38-year-old bogeyed the second, missing a short putt but birdied from the fringes of the green at the fourth and climbed to one-under for the day on the ninth. It was also his par save on the sixth that caught the eye.
 
 “I had a long par putt and I holed it after coming out of the bunker. The key is not to give away loose shots. Birdies are so difficult to find on this course and they require a lot of hard work, so to give away a bogey is painful.”
 
 With the cut set at 6-over - 15 Indians going though -and only 11 sub-par totals on the board in the incomplete third round, it tells its own story. Pepperell said he had a gameplan but pointed to the greens, quite unusually, as something you would find at Disneyland. “The greens are firm, the pin positions are tricky. The fairways are tight, there's no letup. You need to hit good shot after good shot.”
 
 It could well have been a 'Green Day' here. Six-under for the day with a hole to play, Malaysian Gavin Green, a business graduate from the University of New Mexico, got his calculations right. Even-par at the second, he holed six straight birdies from the fifth to 10th before dropping a bogey on the par-3 16th. As darkness descended, he had a chip-in on the 17th and would hope for a fruitful Sunday. With hours of play lost during the last two days because of bad weather, the standing Top 11players except American Peter Uihlein will have to finish their round in the morning.
 
