When the   in the late 1980s, public opinion was decisively in favour of   over Janaki, MGR's wife. In the legislative party , Jayalalithaa commanded onethird of the MLAs who accepted her leadership and regarded her as the party's future although the party establishment including the seniors was largely behind Janaki.Though the DMK was voted to power after the split, when the AIADMK reunited, the pendulum swung in favour of Jayalalithaa.

 Cut to 2017, the AIADMK has once again split, and it appears that the people favour O Panneerselvam over Sasikala. But historical parallels can be deceptive.
 
  hasn't been able to attract a considerable number of MLAs ­ the benchmark is higher since the present antidefection law mandates twothirds support if a faction were to be legitimate. And whoever has supported him hasn't been drawn to OPS as a leader but are those peeved with Sasikala or have been at the wrong end of local factional intrigues.
 
 Ironic it may seem, but without Sasikala around, OPS will lose his USP . He has therefore decided to keep his campaign focused on Sasikala and go hammer and tongs at how her relatives including TTV Dinakaran, his former mentor, still control the party . After the new cabinet was sworn in, OPS put up a brave face saying the Sasi faction did indeed command 124 AIADMK MLAs but the people were with him.
 
 If   lasts long, OPS may lose momentum. Many observers wonder if he will have the wherewithal to mount a full-fledged factional war, which would require money and cadre power to fight in the towns and villages across the state.
 
 On hindsight, it does appear that OPS has played all his cards without achieving a major breakthrough. His rebellion came two days too late.The deed had been done and power had indeed slipped from his hands. If he had rebelled while he was the full-fledged chief minister he may have carried more weight. And the governor may have had to give the first chance to him, as the incumbent, to prove his majority. In power, Sasikala's conviction may have given him a better shot at taking over the party and the government.
 
 Some observers draw a parallel with Thirunavukkarasar who lost his standing after nearly capturing the party following the AIADMK's defeat in 1996. At that time too the DMK egged the rebel leader on ­ just like it did OPS now -with Karunanidhi calling him “man of the match“ after a crucial AIADMK party meeting. But Thirunavakkarasar was up against a charismatic leader of stature, Jayalalithaa. In TN now, the antiDMK space is still open with no one on the horizon to lead that space. OPS still has an outside chance, it seems.
 
