AURANGABAD: The record-high mercury levels recorded in the region have not just left citizens looking for cover, but have also triggered rapid increase in the   losses at different dams in Marathwada.

  major irrigation project, the largest dam in Marathwada, has witnessed highest evaporation losses in past three years for the month of March. The dam, which is one of the largest major irrigation projects in Maharashtra that supplies water to Aurangabad and nearby areas, loses whopping around 10 thousand million cubic feet water every year to evaporation losses. 
 
 Ironically, these water losses to heat are more than four times annual requirement of Aurangabad city and also account for nearly 10% of total capacity of the dam. 
 
 Water resources department officials said Jayakwadi dam, located around 55km from here, has observed more evaporation losses in March this year as compared to past two years. “In 2015 and 2016, evaporation losses in March were 12.61 million cubic meters (mcum) and 22 mcum, respectively. However, this year in March, the dam has witnessed 36.01 mcum loss of water to evaporation,” officials said. 
 
 Around 0.4-0.5 mcum water is lost per day to evaporation during overcast conditions or monsoon season. However, in peak summer days like those witnessed recently, these losses can escalate even upto 1.3 mcum per day. The unprecedented rise in mercury level has been definitely robbing off water from Jayakwadi and other dams from the region, senior WRD official said. 
 
 Aurangabad witnessed maximum temperature of 40.8 degrees celsius on Tuesday, which was highest-ever mercury level for March. A day later, it went up further to touch 41.4 degrees celsius. On Thursday, the maximum temperature was recovered at 41.1 degrees celsius. 
 
 Jayakwadi dam had nearly 55% live storage last month. The dam level had crossed the 85% mark at the end of the last monsoon. Besides drinking purposes, water from the dam was also utilised for the rabi crop.
 
 The total 962 major, medium and minor dams in Marathwada have been feeling the summer heat, the collective storage in these dams has dropped by 10% over a period of last 40 days. These dams at present hold collective live storage of 41.23%. Last month, these 962 dams held just 51.98% live storage. 
 
 In contrast, water levels in these dams was at a worrying low of 1.20% during the unprecedented drought last year. Many major dams in the region, including Jayakwadi, had dipped to dead storage last year. 
 
 While WRD officials continue to express inability in curbing inevitable loss of water to evaporation, experts for long have been pressing for improving water-distribution systems in the form of canals and allied systems to minimize the adverse impact of vapourisation. 
 
 “Releasing water for agriculture could be one of the remedies for saving water from evaporation losses. The water release for summer season has still not been planned for many dams despite having sufficient water. The poor planning has been aggravating the effect of evaporation,” said water activist  .
 
 Last month, around 150 tankers are supplying water to different areas in Aurangabad district. Aurangabad as a whole received relatively less rainfall during the last monsoon, while Gangapur, Vaijapur and some nearby talukas registered the lowest rainfall in the district. Tankers have been supplying water in these talukas for almost a month now. 
 
 “The water storages in different dams are at satisfactory levels. Gangapur, Vaijapur, Kannad and Sillod talukas from Aurangabad district are receiving supply of some water tankers. We do not expect considerable rise in demand for tankers in the days to come. There are many reasons for it, including increased groundwater level due to works done under the   programme,” revenue department officials said. 
 
 
