(By - Jyotna Jha)
 
 Siddaramaiah's 12th budget is more than an election manifesto. It offers something for everyone -rich, poor, children, women, sportspersons, cinemagoers, youth and agriculturists, environment activists -and yet doesn't lose sight of larger goals.
 
 While many would call it a populist budget, I think it's a people's budget. The introduction of Namma Canteens on the lines of the Amma canteen in Tamil Nadu in 198 wards of Bengaluru will bring relief to a large number of poor people and create employment opportunities for women. Expansion of the scheme which provides meals to pregnant and lactating mothers to the entire state, and salary enhancement of Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 for anganwadi work ers and helpers respectively are welcome developments. So is the decision to provide milk and eggs to anganwadi kids.
 
 The new school education policy promises to be more comprehensive. Merging of health insurance schemes is a positive move.
 
 While film buffs will be happy with the cap on multiplex tickets, Kannada cinema has got a major fillip compulsory screening of regional films and a film city in Mysuru.
 
 This is reflective of the chief minister's love for Kannada and can also be seen as an attempt to woo voters for the next election.
 
 The CM has said steps would be initiated to ensure 100% reservation for Kannadigas in Group C and D jobs in the private sector. This promise has been made with an eye on the polls -migrant labourers don't usually vote in state elec tions. This may have an adverse effect on industry, especially real estate and construction, which have taken a downturn after demonetisation.
 
 Enhanced allocation for agriculture in a state facing consecutive droughts can hardly be termed opportunist, and so is the case for increased outlay for conservation and distribution of water. The focus on a long-term approach is lacking -insurance and irrigation schemes won't solve problems caused by mo no-cropping.
 
 Although Bengaluru continues to be the centre for allocations in urban areas, there are some signs of de-concentration: references to satellite towns and development of transport solutions in other major towns. A number of announcements such as subsidy for autos running on LPGs, promotion of electric vehicles and bicycle renting, high allocations for storm water drains and construction of toilets as well as forest parks show the government is concerned about pollution the and environment. It is also an effort to counter the damage done by the late cancellation of the steel flyover project and win the support of environmentalists. Only time will tell whether the budget is really as election tool or not.
 
 (The writer is director, Centre for Budget and Policy Studies)
 
