BHOPAL: For the   the priorities are misplaced. For them, it is the celebration first, and violence victims ‘can wait’. And this was evident on Friday, when chairperson Lata Wankhede celebrated her first year in office with pomp and show with the BJP workers, oblivious to the tears of victims waiting for hours outside hearing room.

 With scant regard for even the office protocol, "Dhol" was allowed inside the office. To top it all, member Ganga Uikey went a step ahead and performed arti of chairperson Lata Wankhede in full view of media and victims waiting to be heard in the office.
 
 As always, the   had organised a bench for hearing the cases of victims of domestic violence, sexual harassment, work place harassment of women in Bhopal, but after hearing a few cases till 2pm, member Ganga Uikey and chairperson Lata Wankhede went into celebration mode, where instead of office members, BJP supporters of Lata Wankhede felicitated her with a “sword”, “Pagdi” and shouted slogans “Bharat Mata ki jai” and “Lata Didi ki Jai” along with dhol entering into the hearing rooms.
 
 This was the 8th bench held in Bhopal, but yet there are cases left in the list, where victims have been coming into state women commission’s hearing for more than five times but they haven’t got the justice yet. On being asked, why the opposite parties are not showing up in bench despite notices of commission, chairperson Lata Wankhede said, “We give three chances to party, and if they don’t respond, FIR is preceded in case against them.”
 
 However, she claimed that celebration was organised during lunch hours. The working hour for bench is from 11am to 5pm, till the victims are there. Lunch time is between 2-3pm, but the celebrations lasted longer till 4pm said the victims.
 
 Meanwhile, party members kept moving to and from in hearing room for making celebration preparations. Seventy-four-year-old Vidya Dubey who was sobbing outside the hearing room burst into tears when asked about the case. “We have been sitting here for the last one hour and have come here to meet the chairperson four to five times, but no action has been taken,” said Vidya Dubey, while taking to TOI. Dubey has the case against his son, who has thrown her out from her property and she had been living in poverty in Kotra Sultanabad since then.
 
 There were over 20 cases in the list for hearing on Friday and many of the women had to return hopelessly after seeing celebration mode at commission.
 
 
 
 Despite being the chairperson of MP State Commission for Women, Lata Wankhede also holds position chairperson in Bharat Scouts and Guides, MP. This is against the commission appointment rule and is unconstitutional.
 
 “I had discussed it with senior officials of women and child development and ministry. They don’t have any problem,” said Lata Wankhede.
 
  
  
 
 
 The victims who had been coming regularly with their plight to state women commission claimed that when they are complaining to her in chamber, she is always surrounded by some unwanted women who are not related to women commission. They face inconvenience. Even a counsellor named advocate Pramod dubey has been sitting with her during bench hearings without being a member or any appointment. Some other advocates were also sitting. The victims claimed that they started getting calls from those advocates as soon as they reach home.
 
 “We keep the privacy in mind. We are allowed to take help from outside,” she said.
 
 NCW Act says: Women counsellor to be appointed and no other person shall be present while discussing cases except chairman or counsellor.
 
