A   startup,  , is trying to create an   and   where   people can look for partners.

 “Mainstream dating and matrimonial apps and websites do not have any mention of disabilities which can cause awkward situations when two people meet after having interacted only online for a while,” says  , who along with Kalyani Khona, started the venture. The app they have developed assists specially abled people to find like-minded people, talk to them and meet them in person.
 
 The Inclov application, which is available on Android, has around 8,000 registered users. The app asks the applicant for the level and the kind of disability along with other login details. The app, however, is not restricted to just people with disabilities.
 
 Inclov started back in 2014 as Wanted Umbrella which was an offline   agency for differently abled people. In 2015, they managed to crowdfund the prototype of the app and relaunched it in January 2016.
 
 Sweta Martin, a freelance content writer based in Pune, has been using the app for some time now. “Although we have matrimony websites for the differently abled, the prospect of a romantic life is totally missing for us. The way this app has been designed, it makes it so much easier to find like-minded people,” says Martin.
 
 Inclov also arranges for social meets in different cities where the people registered on the app can meet without any hesitation. “We do not see a lot of disabled people hanging out in pubs, malls or bars not because they do not want to but because these places are inaccessible to them and secondly they don’t feel comfortable,” says Srinivasan.
 
 At least five matrimonial alliances have been formed through their app, says Srinivasan. The first one was between Anu Multani and Imran who got married three months after they interacted.
 
 “Inclov gave me so many options for a life partner which was overwhelming. It is a great platform for people with disabilities,” says Multani, a rifle shooter.
 
 Inclov has a team of six people in all and operates out of a basement in Sushant Lok-1. They received an angel funding in July 2016 of Rs 1 crore. Raghav Bahl of Quintillion media is also one of the investors backing the venture.
 
 The company has a paid entry for their social meets which helps them cover costs. To turn in profits, Inclov plans to launch premium services such as assisted match making soon.
 
 
