NEW DELHI: Six properties worth at least Rs 6 crore may have been the reason behind the murder of BSP leader  , his wife, and four children.

 The main accused Bunty , Rana's business partner, thought he had created strong alibis to dodge the police--he wasn't present when Rana was killed, and had even made the contract killers call him up multiple times to suggest that he was killed due to some rivalry.But his cellphone locations pulled down the facade behind which he hid.
 
 And the plot unravelled thick and fast.
 
 Bunty accused Rana of treachery and deceit.
 
 “I was always there for him but he broke my trust and never gave me my dues. I always got the leftovers,“ Bunty told the police.
 
 They were best friends since their late twenties and were partners in crime, literally. The two committed several land-grabs and evicted people from disputed properties. Both were involved in a dozen cases of murder and land-grabbing.
 
 In 2008, Rana had contested Delhi assembly elections on a BSP ticket but lost. In 2014, he had contested again in the General Elections but lost. Rana's brother Nahid was more successful in politics. In this year's UP assembly election, Nahid beca me an MLA from Kairana.
 
 There was no problem between Rana and Bunty all these years. Trouble arose after the two partners acquired the six properties mentioned earlier illegally and Rana registered all six in his name.
 
 Bunty saw this as a betrayal. He wanted revenge. But after Rana, it would be his wife and children who would inherit the properties. So Bunty hatched the sinister plot to eliminate all of them.
 
 Rana went to jail on January 19 this year for rape.And Bunty thought this was his chance.
 
 He kept up his pretence of friendship with Rana by visiting him regularly in jail promising to take care of his family .
 
 He stayed in touch with Rana's family on phone and through regular visits. But these house visits had a purpose--he would ask Rana's wife Ishrat for property papers to establish her husband's innocence.
 
 By April, Bunty had forged those papers in his name. Then he decided to bump off Ishrat and her four children.
 
 But Rana was still alive and Bunty didn't want to wait. So he arranged for Rana's parole by paying lawyers to argue in court that he needed to get out to find his missing wife and children.
 
 On May 17, Rana was released on parole. Two days later, Bunty got him killed.
 
 The family's trust in Bunty doomed them.
 
