I love a guy and we have been together since quite sometime now. But, both of us know that we can't get married because we belong to different castes. However, he wants to have   with me and frankly, I want the same. The real problem that's troubling me is the fear that if I get married to someone else will it cause any problem? 

 I love my boyfriend dearly and don't want to disappoint him. Please suggest me what I should do? Should I go ahead and have sex with somebody I won't marry? - 
 
 
 
  After being in a relationship for a long time, there is often a natural curiosity about sex, despite an uncertainty of marriage. Thus it is great that you are seeking help for this. Since you haven’t mentioned your age in the question, I am assuming that both you and your partner are adults as per the law. There is no right or wrong answer to this – it has to be your personal choice, all I can do is to help you to think about it.
 
 I believe sex is as basic an instinct as hunger is, but it is also one of the most powerful instinct, hence in order to control it there are impositions put in by religious and cultural authorities. Unlike Western cultures, Indian society still frowns upon  .
  
 You will find people having different opinions on the issue of whether you should have sex if you don’t think you will marry him. The reason being that sex before marriage is looked upon as cheating with your future husband in our society. As virginity of a girl is a mark of a good character. This doesn't allow women the same freedom to exercise their right over their body without some degree of backlash. The real fear you have is that of a future rejection from the husband. Thus this stops being about right or wrong and becomes an altogether different issue.
  
 Sex before marriage, ideally is a decision of two people who know what they want with their lives. Even if your relationship doesn’t end in a marriage, it is still important to be aware of your reasons why you want to have physical intimacy. If you do have sex, do it for the right reasons – Do it out of your own free will, without pressure from your partner. Also do it as an expression of your mutual affection and respect for each other. But please do take the onus of protecting your own body so you don't end up with unwanted pregnancies or sexually transmitted diseases.
  
 This is your body and regardless of where you are headed, you choose what to do with it. Handling it responsibly, by taking the right precautions is important too. Because when things don't work out, it should not result in him walking away and leaving you alone to deal with the consequences.
  
 In the end, while I don't believe it is fundamentally wrong, it is important that you tread carefully and do it for the right reasons. Unfortunately, you have a lot more to consider than another girl would in a more open society. I am no one to say if your relationship should progress to physical intimacy or no, it all depends on you and what you think is right for you and your relationship, keeping in mind its implications on your emotional well being.
 
 
 
 Want expert advice for your relationship? Send us an email at expertadvice.toi@gmail.com
 
