NAGPUR: A lanky striker with his peculiar style has won many hearts in the ongoing   Elite Division League. Whenever his team, Young Muslim   Club ( ), takes the field, everyone has high expectation from   and he never disappoints.

 On Friday, when YMFC were taking on Rahul Sankrutyayan Sporting Club (RSSC) in the semifinal, Cletus justified the faith put in him by recruiting him from Mumbai. He struck two thrilling goals in an all-important match as YMFC won 3-0 to enter the third successive final at the Police Line Takli ground. They will now face Nagpur Academy Football Club (NAFC) in the final.
 
 Cletus’ is not just known for his goal scoring ability. He is also recognized for his precision in passing. After scoring twice, he framed five moves with cross balls out of which only one was converted by Javed Akhtar in the 90th minute.
 
 YMFC coach Adil Akhtar is happy with Cletus and also satisfied with his boys. “Cletus was great in the semis. If all Cletus’ passes met the target, we could have scored 6-7 goals. He is playing superbly in the tourney,” Adil said.
 
 “My boys are doing extremely well. Everyone knows their job and I am sure that they will repeat the performance in the final against NAFC,” he added.
 
 The Mumbai-born striker got around thousand YMFC supporters on their feet in applause in the fifth minute. It was a free-kick from a step or two away from the box. Cletus took time and struck it wide through the narrow gap of tall RSSC’s wall to make it 1-0.
 
 YMFC started dictating the terms after gaining an early advantage. They tackled well and snatched the ball at will. On the other hand, RSSC struggled to keep the ball in their control as they lost possession and YMFC were quick to create counter attacks.
 
 RSSC came close to scoring only on two occasions but both the strikers Arvin George and Vaibhav Sherley failed to find the net. Had Arvin converted an open goal opportunity when they were trailing by a goal, the story could have been different.
 
 After the Arvin’s miss, YMFC’s flag-kick was cleared but the ball came back to the box where   held it and he tapped it to his right for Cletus. The striker was surrounded by two defenders. He pushed the ball a step ahead and slammed it on the extreme left corner to make it 2-0.
 
 Within two minutes of the Cletus’ second goal, there was a counter attack and Sherley did everything right but his header hit the post and RSSC missed a chance to reduce the lead.
 
 Once RSSC conceded the second goal, spectators started to leave the ground as YMFC had sealed the fate of the game comfortably.
 
