Though   lost the India Open Super Series title to PV Sindhu on Sunday, in a match which is being termed as Sindhu's reply to the Olympic defeat last year, there is no denying the fact that the 23-year-old Spanish player is widely acknowledged as one of the finest female players of her generation. The former world no 1, who was in Delhi for the   in the city, spoke to us on the sidelines of an event organized last week by La Liga at Modern School, Barakhamba Road, where she was practising before the tournament. Excerpts from a chat:

  
 (Laughs) Not really, no! It's always been about practice and the matches here. I like to make the most of my free time. Unfortunately, I don't have much of that while on tour. During a tournament, you are just focusing on the rest and recovery between games and not much on sightseeing. I would want to come back here as a tourist someday though. I would really want to see the Taj Mahal sometime soon.
 
  
 It was a big surprise and I was taken aback by that. I was told that after the Olympics, where many fans had seen me beat Sindhu, Indians were aware of me but I wasn't expecting that. I really like playing in India now because I have made many new fans here. I really appreciate all the support the Indian fans give me on and off the court. They make me improve my game and give over 100% every time.
 
  
  Carolina taking a selfie with the badminton team of the school and their principal Vijay Dutta (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
  
 Very similar, I would say. I think they are very emotional when it comes to sport. When they support a player, they do it very strongly. I really like this kind of passionate support. What’s surprising for me is that despite my on-court rivalries with Sindhu and Saina, the Indian fans always support me.
 
  
 (Laughs) I have said before that I was surprised at the amount she got but that's a difference of cultures, I guess. It depends on the country because Spain won so many medals at Rio (17 medals including 7 golds) that mine was one of the many. While, India got only two, so even one silver gets more publicity and limelight here. But playing is not all about money. I'm happy representing Spain at the international level and there is a sense of pride associated with that. That matters to me.
 
  
 I don't know much about cricket so can’t really comment on the extent to which they can help. But I believe that rich sports associations – the popular ones – need to support other sports as well. It’s really good when they do that because it’s not just about money but also exposure. They can use their fan base for greater good. Just like the Spanish league has been supporting me through my career, the popular sports bodies in India can do that too for the less popular sports here.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 Not at all. I support Barcelona because my parents are big fans of the team and also because I think   is the best player in the world.
 
  
 
 
