Mumbai: In a legal setback to   and his son  , the Bombay high court dismissed their appeal over an order requiring them to first vacate their luxury   bungalow in a family dispute over property. A bench of Justices V M Kanade and Swapna Joshi held that an order directing execution of an arbitral award is not appealable.

 The order that Vijaypat Singhania and Gautam wanted to appeal was an order passed by Justice K R Shriram last year in one such arbitration matter. An arbitrator had in 2008 divided the family properties of the Singhanias three-ways between the Mumbai, Kolkata and Kanpur branches of the family. The Mumbai   was to go to the Kolkata group and some Kanpur properties to the Mumbai group. The Kolkata group had given Rs 46 crore to both.
 
 The Kolkata group, comprising the family of Singhania’s late brother, had sought execution of the award to get possession of the Mumbai bungalow.
 
 Last year, Justice Shriram had directed the Raymond Group chairman emeritus Singhania, to honour the arbitral award and hand over vacant possession of Kamla Cottage, his Juhu bungalow to the Kolkata branch. The bungalow is considered a veritable museum filled with valuable art, artefacts and furniture. The order to vacate the bungalow was the first setback to Singhania. It was on a plea by the family of Singhania’s late brother from the Kolkata group for execution of the arbitral award, to get possession of the Mumbai property.
 
 The judge had asked the Mumbai group, which includes Singhania, to pursue separate proceedings to get its due from the Kanpur group. The Singhania family ran JK Bankers, a partnership firm. In 1987, a family settlement dissolved it. Disputes arose, and in 2008 an arbitrator had finally split all immovable properties three-way.
 
 Singhania resides at Bhulabhai Desai Road.
 
 Singhania, son Gautam and Sushila Singhania, filed an appeal. Their case was that the exchange of properties be simultaneously done. Besides, the tenanted Kanpur property was also encumbered by the Kanpur group, argued the Mumbai group. The court, after hearing their counsel, Milind Sathe and Virag Tulzapurkar and Zal Andhyarujina for the Kanpur group as well as the Kolkata group’s counsel Dinyar Madon who raised preliminary objections to the maintainability of the appeal, held that execution orders were not appealable as if it was a decree.
 
 The HC had last directed the Kolkata group to deposit Rs 46 crore which it did. Justice Shriram had held that Singhania cannot refuse to hand over the Juhu bungalow as he had not received properties due to him from the Kanpur group. 
 
 The HC had earlier upheld the award in 2009 and then again, in appeal, in 2013. The challenge to the award was by the Kanpur and Bombay groups led by Singhania, who is likely to take the battle to the Supreme Court.
 
