DEHRADUN:   in Dehradun having   will have to   house tax from June 1. The clearance for the move, which was proposed by the  , has come from the  .
 
  According to a survey conducted by the nagar nigam, there are around 40,000 houses in 129 slum colonies, which are expected to contribute almost Rs 2 crore to the   revenues.
  But, houses having smaller carpet area and whose total house tax amount are Rs 360 or less will be exempted from taxation.
  
  When Uttarakhand was part of Uttar Pradesh, the house tax collection was started for the slum colonies in 1992, but it was stopped after 1998.
  
  Mayor Vinod Chamoli said, “Since no assessment was done between 2000 and 2015, the tax rate could not be revised and that was why the house tax couldn’t be imposed on slum colonies earlier. Now, the tax will be collected from slum colonies from 2015, and we will also give them a 20% rebate. Besides, dwellers whose monthly tax is Rs 360 or less will be exempted from tax, though their properties will still be registered with nigam.”
  
  Slum dwellers can register their properties with nigam using aadhar card, voter id or ration card.
  
  “Out of the 1.25 lakh houses in the city, nearly 40,000 are in slum colonies, which will increase our annual revenue collection from house tax to a greater extent. Already 60% of these unregistered properties are using nigam’s services such as sanitation and cleanliness, and with increased revenue, we will be able to extend our services to all,” said mayor.
  
  Registration of slum properties, however, will not give dwellers ownership right. “Most of these properties are either on riverbeds or on government land or private properties. House tax will only ensure them essential services such as garbage collection, but the government still has the authority to remove or relocate slum colonies at any given time. They can own house, but not land on which it is built since these are result of encroachments.”
  
  The nigam will also conduct inspections to ensure that all houses in slum colonies are registered with them, and action will be taken against those who fail to get their properties registered.
