INDORE: "I cannot focus on my studies unless I keep checking updates on my social networking page at regular intervals. Please! Help me find a way out to study without distractions"- this is just one out of many other queries that   ( ) counselling helpline has received in  . 

 Launched to address board examination related queries of students, the helpline has received over 400-500 calls within 10 days of its start on February 9. 
 
 It has been flooded with calls from anxious students from across the state. 
 
 While some of these calls were from students, who could not prepare well for the board exams, the others were from the students, who wanted to know how they can deal with anxiety generated because of huge expectations from their parents.
 
 Apprehensions about not clearing the exams are also looming large in the minds of the students. 
 
 Dealing with competitive exams along with the board is another issue that the students are facing this year. "I got a call from a worried girl, who will be appearing for the board exams, but was worried about the competitive exams, which will be conducted post board exams," said Jaydeb Kar, CBSE accredited helpline counsellor from the state. 
 
 "I asked her to concentrate on her board exams first else she will mess up with both the exams. She was not the only one in the house appearing for board exams, her younger brother and sister will also appear for the exams thus the entire house was under the exams stress," added Kar.
 
 This was not it, some students called up the helpline and asked for short-cuts to clear the exam with good marks as they couldn't prepare throughout the year due to some or the other reasons. 
 
 Apart from students, a number of calls have been received from parents, who also want guidance on how they could lend a helping hand to their children during this crucial period. 
 
 Some worried parents sought help for their kids, who are not able to remember what they have studied or not able to sleep properly because of nervousness.
 
