HYDERABAD: With recruitments and appraisals expected to be disappointing, employees in the IT sector are looking at upskilling or re-skilling themselves by signing up for specialised online courses to beef up their resumes.

 Latest data collected by the Indian wing of the   edu-tech startup, Udacity, Hyderabad, shows a rise in terms of the demand for specialised online tech courses.Artificial intelligence, deep learning, android development, machine learning, data analyst, full stack developer are some of the courses people in the city are now taking up.
 
 “This increased interest in learning specialised skills is a result of changes happening in the IT industry now and the slow recruitment and appraisal season across the sector this year,“ said Ishan Gupta, managing director, India, Udacity .
 
 Data collected by the online course provider shows how Hy derabad stands fourth in the country, after Bangalore, Delhi and Mumbai, in terms of the demand for these courses.
 
 “Companies are hiring employees for specific projects and periods, after which they can be benched or let go. Presently, in Hyderabad, there are instances of many employees being benched for months altogether, after completing a particular project. An employee's chances of landing internal vacancies within the same company depends on whether or not they are ready to expand their skills and learn specific technologies to fit any profiles the company has on offer. Eve ry resource the company hires should be ready to undergo cross-training or multi-skilling,“ said Pallavi S, who is in charge of talent management at several IT firms in the city.
 
 According to  , chief executive officer of  , introduction of specialised courses in engineering college curricula will help. “There is enough demand for professionals with a new skill set in fields such as cloud computing and data analytics. Training people in these niche areas must be at the college level itself, by introducing specialised courses in the curriculum,“ said Ranganeni.
 
