GURUGRAM: There’s a certain stigma associated with seeking therapy. The same stigma that makes many Indian adults reluctant to approach a counsellor. And they would probably be even more unwilling to do so when it comes to their child. 

  “If their child needs  , it is seen as a reflection of their parenting. That contributes to reluctance on the parents’ part,” claims Nupur Dhingra Paiva, a clinical child psychologist and co-founder of ‘Art of Sport’, which uses sport and group therapy to help girls aged between 6 and 11 build a positive body image. 
 
 Often, parents and schools revel in a bubble of their kids’ achievements, usually determined by academic performances, leading them to disregard early signs of  . “Only when a kid slashes their wrist do the parents wake up and rush for help. The signs have to be too jarring to ignore,” says city-based psychotherapist  , who has in the past consulted for schools.
 
 Therapists feel schools tend to focus overtly on behavioural aspects of a child’s personality, ignoring the underlying emotional causes. Statistics show at least 10% students enrolled at any school suffer from emotional or behavioural issues. 
 
 Gurgaon schools have established different systems of counselling to address this. While CBSE schools have issued guidelines for counsellors, International Baccalaureate (IB) schools tend to follow the Personal, Social, Health and Economic ( ) system.
 
 Pathways World School, which follows the IB programme, has two counsellors each for primary, middle and senior school. Children are encouraged to open up voluntarily to a counsellor. And if teachers notice anything unusual, they are advised to refer them.
 
 Ryan International School, Sohna road, which follows the CBSE syllabus, uses peer counselling, where students of psychology hold sessions with lower-grade students. “Eighth graders find it easier to open up to 12th graders about heartbreak or body image issues. By peer counselling, I can help older kids help younger ones,” said the counsellor at Ryan International.
 
 Amity International, Sector 46, a CBSE school, has a specialised ‘learning enhancement centre’ where slow learners are identified, enrolled and given individual attention.
 
 Schools also coordinate with child psychologists for workshops or need-based assistance. ‘Circle of Life’, a city wellness clinic, is one such place that works extensively with schools in Gurgaon. “We have often been called by schools to help them address an important issue with a child, or assist them in conveying problem areas to parents,” said Dr Renuka Dutta, a play therapist, clinical psychologist, and director at ‘Circle of Life’. 
 
 
