NEW DELHI: At the bright red box located near the staircase, Moh Priya, a student at the municipal primary school in Malviya Nagar, is intensely focused on clearing stage after stage of a cartoon-based game. “Who doesn’t like video games?” she beams. Just as well, for even as she pits her genius against the so-called “playstation”, she is actually learning about complex arithmetic fractions. 

 Hobbled by  , the municipal primary schools are under no illusion that they will be able to use   in education. Until now, that is. “We too are now trying out technology-based education, like private schools do,” said an education official of the  . Over 50 primary schools under the corporation will soon get the red playstations under a project supported by NIIT, Rotary Club and the Australian embassy.
 
 The playstation, of course, is not the Japanese gaming console, despite its wannabe name. It is a basic, red metallic box with over 700 software programs in various subjects — from language, geography and history to science and mathematics — developed by NIIT with inputs from the Azim Premji Foundation. “The programs cater to children from nursery up to Class XII,” said Chanchal Gupta, a teacher deputed to work in the Malviya Nagar school by NGO Parwarish.
 
 The games are the first experience with computers for Moh Priya. Her friend Sandhya Muskan enthuses about the cartoon components, though the playstation also offers game-based learning through modules on academics, lifeskills, activity-based learning and even edutainment. The teachers hope that these will create somewhat of a level-playing field for their students, who mostly have economically disadvantaged backgrounds.
 
 There is a computer meant for every class in Malviya Nagar’s Nigam Pratibha Vidyalaya for girls, but as in most municipal schools, they are nonfunctional. No wonder principal Shashi Rajpal is elated with the playstation project. “Our children will get the opportunity to access and learn how to operate computers. This will build confidence in them,” Rajpal said. “Children are addicted to games on their parents’ mobile phones, so these education games can be an excellent complement to regular teaching.” Students in the lower classes are demanding to know when their turn to play will come, the principal smiles. 
 
 Purnendu Hota, head of the NIIT project, said that the modules aim “to help the child break free from the fear of technology”. Each playstation unit costs Rs 2 lakh and is robustly built. According to the NIIT officials, the metallic encasement has been specially designed to prevent breakdown and prevent the fate of the dead computers in the schools. “We have designed it by incorporating the lessons we learnt in the last one and a half decade,” said Hota.
 
 When the bell rings to mark the end of classes, many girls, including Moh Priya — in a marked change from normal — linger around. They all rush to the red box. Their principal nods in approval. 
 
 
