BENGALURU: Imagine being able to control natural phenomenon like rainfall with your thoughts or conduct   through a device linked with an app. 

 It’s possible with their unique creations, feels a group of budding designers from Srishti Institute of Art, Design and Technology. Developed as part of their  , the products are on display at Palace Grounds from July 17 to 20.
 
 Sai Krishna Mulpuru, Abhiyan Humane and Anoop Saxena, three faculty members of Srishti’s centre for experimental media and arts department, have come up with a wonder umbrella called Think Tank, armed with which anyone can make it rain using the mind’s concentration power. The project was aided by the department of information technology and biotechnology, government of Karnataka and Biocon for Science Gallery.
 
  
  Armed with a wonder umbrella. (Photo: Syed Asif)
 
 Abhiyan said: “Think Tank is a direct physical representation of complex networking in the brain, depicting thoughts as raindrops and memory as a water tank. Using advanced brain censors (EEG) and electronics, we built the system to capture action potentials fired in the pre-frontal cortex, which interactively simulate thunder, lightning and rain. This means one can make it rain just by concentrating,” he added.
 
 Nadeem Shaheer, a postgraduate student from the department of industrial arts and design practices, and Vineeth R from the department of human centred design, have created a three-part physiotherapy tool kit that can replace the physical presence of a physiotherapist and enable a patient going through rehabilitation to exercise in a synchronized fashion.
 
 Nadeem said: “Exo Lift, one part of the kit, helps a person exercis. Exo Band then analyzes and converts the exercise data into readable information that is displayed on the mobile through Exo App.”
 
 The app also acts as a patient interface and management platform, displaying all the relevant information. “It can be used to communicate with the doctor or physiotherapist concerned, who can get real-time data and intervene if necessary. Also, the app can track regular physical activities and provide a reading if they are equivalent to physiotherapy exercises,” he added.
 
 Among the innovations is a health screening kit based on ultrasonic and infrared sensors. A digital tracker for the health of children in government schools, both in urban and rural areas, the kit will provide civic agencies and the health department an open-source database.
 
 Nitin Jerath, an undergraduate student from the department of industrial arts and design practices, said: “India suffers from inadequacy in reportage of health conditions, be it for adults or children. My health kit will enable schools to digitally maintain health records of students and collaborate with the government and NGOs. The data will provide doctors annual health records of students.” 
 
 
 
 
 Ranging from stylish tops to wrappers and balloon pants, Sneha Doshi, a student from the industrial arts and design practices department, has designed dresses for kids, teens and adults. She has embellished products manufactured by housewives from low-income groups in Channapatna, for whom she conducts basic tailoring classes. “By creating a sustainable future for them, I am trying to improve their economic position. All my dresses are based on whatever these women have learnt from their training,” said Sneha.
 
 
 
 
 A fouth-year student from the department of industrial art and design practices, Sushira Prasad’s home décor collection made of jute, grass and paper helps 300 differently abled women from Ananthpur in Andhra Pradesh. From uniquely designed floor mats and lamp shades to mirrors and sitting tools, all these products are manufactured by these women suffering from polio, cerebral palsy and visual impairment. “They earn only Rs 72 per day by making these products, which are exported to Spain. I am trying to create a local urban market for them so that they are able to earn at least Rs 210 per day,” said Sushira
 
