NASHIK: City-based  ,   (SGR), has decided to step into the   sector from the current academic year.

 The hospital being run by Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Medical Foundation will launch four paramedical courses to train youths into medical technicians work. Being a charity hospital, it will be running the course on highly subsidised fees. The official launch of this project is scheduled to be held on May 14.
 
 “This initiative has been taken to deal with the huge dearth of medical technicians in our country. The community college will be affiliated to Bharat Sevak Sangh (BSS), a national development agency promoted by government of India. This will be the first and only community college in Nashik,” said Dr Vinayak Govilkar, president of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Medical Foundation.
 
 As many as four courses in the field of dialysis technology, x-ray technology, operation theatre technology and patient assistance section will be launched in the first phase of this project.
 
 Apart from the technical knowledge, students will be trained in communicative English and computer fundamentals, soft skills, market-oriented training, and on-job practical experience.
 
 “The government and private hospitals as well as dialysis and radiology centres across the country are facing acute shortage of skilled technicians. Unfortunately, many hospitals and diagnosis centres still have to rely on over unskilled laborers in use of high-end machines. We are confident that students trained at BSS College will be in demand next year,” said Dr Govilkar.
 
 Doctors will deliver theory lectures on weekends while the practical sessions will be held for three weekdays at the college. The official launch of the community college will be held at 10.30 am on May 14 at Kusumagraj Memorial.
 
 Medical fraternity in Nashik has welcomed this development. “Every specialist doctor needs good technicians to get right X-ray and scanning reports. Moreover, assistants having proper communication skills prove to be a great help to specialist doctors. It’s a unique initiative to start training college for technicians and will be of a great help for medical fraternity,” said cardiologist  
 
