JAIPUR: The   (JMC) has finalised draft of the budget for financial year 2017-2018, which will be spent to carry out development work in the city.

 The JMC this year has reduced the budget of Prime Minister’s ambitious   project from Rs 50 crore to Rs 20 crore. The corporation will table the budget of Rs 1,715 crore for this financial year, which is Rs 350 crore higher than the previous year. For the financial year 2016-2017, the JMC presented budget of Rs 1,350 crore.
 
 Conservation of heritage will be the major focus of JMC in the new budget. This is the reason JMC has proposed Rs 31 crore for   area and Rs 5 crore for heritage development. For construction of roads in JMC periphery, it has proposed to allot nearly Rs 100 crore.
 
 Other than this, the JMC has increased the target of collecting development taxes. “Last year, JMC’s target to collect development tax was Rs 180 crore but even 50 % of the target was not achieved. However, the corporation has decided to increase the target,” added source
 
 In absence of finance committee chairman, newly appointed mayor   is expected to present the budget in the general body meeting (GBM) on February 9. “In the 8th GBM, 6 agendas will be tabled. The four agendas will be related to sanitation,” said an official source.
 
 BJP government recently accepted the resignation of all the committee chairmen after appointing the new mayor. The names of committees’ chairmen are likely to be announced in GBM. Sources informed TOI that in the 5th board, the JMC has decided to constitute 20 committees that would run the municipal corporation.
 
 As the size of the city is increasing, JMC has decided to constitute three electrical committees and three public lights committees. Last time, JMC constituted three sanitation committees for 91 wards of the city. The JMC might also constitute a new committee for sewerage. “The city has 91 wards and it is not possible for one committee to monitor the area. As three committees will be constituted, the work will be divided . One committee can easily monitor 30 wards,” said an official source.
 
