MUMBAI: A third year engineering student of a reputed college committed suicide by jumping from the 19th floor room of a five-star hotel in   (west) on Monday. Just before jumping to death, he shot a video and uploaded it on a social networking site (  live app).

 The deceased, identified as Arjun Bharadwaj, broke the glass window of the hotel room and jumped to death around 6.30 pm. The Bandra police have found nine short suicide notes on the table in room number 1925. The video, which is one minute and 43 seconds long, shows Bharadwaj talking about “steps” before committing suicide. “Bharadwaj checked in into the hotel around 3am. He stayed in the room all day. The video shows that he had cigarette, alcohol and food before committing suicide,” said a police officer of the Bandra police station.
 
 The police said that in one of the notes, Bharadwaj mentioned that he was under depression and was fed up with life. “He wrote that no one should be held responsible for his decision. He also said sorry to his parents in the note,” said the police officer.
 
 The incident came to light when a security guard saw Bharadwaj lying in a pool of blood in the hotel premises. He was rushed to   but was declared brought dead. Investigators found out that Bharadwaj has been staying as paying guest in Andheri (west) for the last four years. “It seems he was under depression because he repeatedly failed in his third year engineering exams,” said the police. He is the eldest son of Bengaluru-based businessman. His father came to Mumbai late on Monday.
 
 Sion dean Dr Suleman Merchant said life has become a selfie for today’s generation who shots everything and anything before taking the extreme step. Sign of suicide is shown many times but it is the close ones who has to understand and immediate treatment or counselling should be provided. “But shooting such act is in one way a message that is sent by the person who is in distress. Timely action and psychiatrist help can save the life. Such kind of act of recording is a call for help,” said Dr Merchant.
 
 
 
 
  
 
