BENGALURU: The   (DCE) order on Tuesday announcing the   of 1,489   for government first-grade colleges has left many confused. Of the 2,034 eligible candidates shortlisted by   (KEA), 1,733 applications (after verification) were sent to the government for final approval. But the appointment order mentioned only 1,489 candidates. 

 Supriya, who applied for a post in the social work department, was part of the 1,733 candidates but was not called for counselling. She believes candidates who pursued Bachelor of Social Work (BSW) have been given precedence over those with undergraduate degrees in other subjects. This move by the government mandating equivalency in UG and masters courses had left many candidates angry as there was no mention of the same when the call for appointments was made. Many candidates wondered why the government has resorted to backward thinking while cross-subject expertise is welcomed in the job scenario of the modern world. 
 
 “Of the 69 candidates who were chosen as assistant professors in the social work department, only nine feature in the list of 1,489. They have a bachelor’s degree in social work. We don’t know why such a decision was taken as Master of Social Work (MSW) is open to graduates from any discipline. But they are still prioritizing candidates with a BSW,” she said. Supriya added there has been no notification from University Grants Commission (UGC) dictating norms for equivalency for teaching posts in social work.
 
 According to a faculty member at   (KSOU), a 2015 notification from DCE cited equivalency norms for assistant professors in only two subjects: Master of Business Administration (MBA) and Master of Commerce (MCom).
 
 “In all university appointments of teaching positions, UG is not considered so seriously. They only said MBA and MCom assistant professors should have done their UG in a relevant subject. Any student can apply for a Masters in Social Work (MSW) as it is an applied discipline, not theoretical. Anyway, BSW was only recently introduced as a degree and not many colleges offer it. Then how can they say candidates should have done BSW,” he asked, questioning the DCE’s rationale of keeping candidates hanging.
 
 Tuesday’s notification however mentioned that work orders for the remaining candidates would also be issued after a satisfactory inquiry. The notification claimed the delay in issuing work orders won’t be an issue as a consolidated list for counselling would be prepared ahead of its scheduled August 1 start. Officials from DCE could not be reached for comments.
 
