MUMBAI: For yet another year,   ( ) admissions could see a delayed start as the   department is still to finalize the schedule and print information booklets, including user  , for students. The delay could reduce the time students get to fill out the first part of   forms. 

 Last year, the education   had started Part I of the online registrations for students on May 9, and on April 24 in 2015. In Part I of the registration process, students must sign up on the portal and upload personal details.
 
 This year, though, education department officials are still verifying college registrations. “We are verifying the details submitted by junior colleges. Once that is done early next week, we will compile the number of seats available for this year. The process of creating information booklets is underway and a schedule will be announced within a week,” said an education department official.
 
 College registrations began on April 7 and were to wrap up on April 15 but the deadline was extended multiple times as colleges continued to stream in with requests to accommodate them. “If we leave out any colleges, it will be a loss for students as those seats will not get counted in the online process, which is why we kept reminding colleges to sign up,” said the official.
 
 School principals, too, are waiting for instructions from the education department. “Only once the education department begins giving out information booklets, can we begin training students on how to fill up the admission forms. The process is new this year, so adequate time is required to understand the changes,” said Uday Nare, teacher, Hansraj Morarji Public School, Andheri. The department needs to start Part II of the process, which involves uploading marks and selecting colleges, a day after the SSC results are announced. The state government resolution issued earlier this year also requires the department to wrap up the admission process by September 30. This year’s online admission process had to be started from scratch as the state changed the software company, which had been handling the system for the past few years. 
 
 
