MUMBAI: ' ..' was the Bollywood number playing as around 30-40 women inmates rehearsed dance steps for  , while inmate   lay unconscious after being allegedly assaulted by jail staff, said sources.

 On June 23, between 4-5pm, jail authorities played songs and some inmates were rehearsing for Eid which was falling on June 26.
 
 Sources said members of a few NGOs saw jail staffers beat Shetye when they arrived to counsel the inmates, and also saw inmates dancing to music on the ground floor, but neither the crime branch nor jail authoritiies have recorded their statements. Even if Shetye would have cried for help, it is unlikey she would have been heard above the din.
 
 “These NGOs visit jail every alternative day to counsel the prison inmates and on that fateful day, they saw jail superintendent Manisha Pokharkar and others guards beating Shetye and pulling her by the hair and banging her head. They can become good witnesses in the murder case,“ said a source on condition of anonymity. Rajwardhan Sinha, IG (prison), could not be reached for comment.
 
 Sources added after Pokharkar allegedly got tired, she summoned jail guard Waseema Shaikh who stays in the jail quarters. Waseema and other guards then assaulted Shetye until the latter fell down. She was then dumped in her barrack on the first floor.
 
 “The dance rehearsal was on and everybody was busy watching it and nobody noticed Shetye lying badly injured. Had someone seen her and rushed her to hospi tal in time she would have been alive,“ said a source.
 
 Another inmate, Vaishali Mudale, accused in a corruption case last week, last week gave a detailed statement to special trial court judge A D Tankiwale alleging she too was beaten up, that too by a male cop. On Thursday, Mudale and her co-accused Harshada Bendre recounted what they witnessed inside the jail on June 23. Mudale said she and Shetye were on “wheat cleaning duty“ at 10am on June 23 when four women cops took Shetye to the jailor's offi ce. “After 10-15 minutes I heard her crying out...Half an hour later, Manjula and the cop came outside. Manjula, a warden, wears a sari. Her sari was wrapped around her neck. She was wearing a maxi...the police dragged Manjula by her hair, took her to her barrack on the first floor and flung her in her cell.“
 
 Meanwhile the city crime branch has claimed the role of the six Byculla jail guards arrested for the alleged murder is clear from CCTV footage examined by forensic experts.
 
