MANGALURU: Rumours of   not being a legal tender have hit the coastal Karnataka too. Including nationalized banks, shop-keepers and private buses have reportedly denying to accept the coin. 

 However banks have denied it and said they have been accepting Rs 10 coins.
 
 The problem is seen across district. While banks are not accepting the coin stating that RBI is not allowing them to remit the coins, shopkeepers and private buses are putting the onus on banks saying; when banks are not accepting the coins, then what we have to do with them?
 
 Imran Kukkaje, a local businessman, who recently visited the State Bank of Mysore in   in Bantwal taluk with Rs 10 coins, returned back after the bank staff claimed that the RBI is not allowing them to remit the coins. “Confused over this, I called the regional office in   and they said otherwise,” he recalled speaking to TOI.
 
 Further he added that it has caused inconvenience to the people with banks not accepting the same. “Even shop-keepers, supermarkets and other petty shops are not accepting them as there are a lot of confusion created by the banks.”
 
 While Abhijith Kolpe, a journalist with web-portal, who depends on public transport for commuting shares that a bus conductor denied accepting the coin. “Private bus conductor asked me whether the Rs 10 coin was legitimate or not when I gave him a coin to purchase the ticket. He, however, hesitatingly accepted the coin.” Even in shops, when you give a Rs 10 coin, the initial reaction is of hesitation – can this be accepted?
 
 When contacted, some bank managers in the city denied any kind of RBI direction not to accept the coin and added that Rs 10 is still a legal tender and it is offence not to accept the same. “This is nothing but confusion created by the people and some bank officials. There is no such rule about not accepting the coin and RBI has not imposed any ban on the Rs 10 coin. A few bank cashiers, who find it difficult to count the huge quantity of coins, denying them,’’ one bank official said.
 
 Confusion has also been created because of the frequent changes in the design of the coin. Since 2005, the RBI has introduced three designs. 
 
 The   has time and again has clarified that Rs 10 coin has not been banned. The RBI had even issued a notification on November 20 last year clarifying that Rs 10 coins are a legal tender.
 
