DEHRADUN: The bail application of   and 15 others was rejected by a judicial magistrate court in Kotdwar which remanded all the accused to judicial custody for 14 days in matter pertaining to   of  . Apart from Thapar another prominent businessman whose name figures in the list of accused is Jayant Nanda managing director of Cargo Motors, the largest dealer of Tata Motors' commercial vehicles in the country. 
 
 Senior superintendent of Police of Pauri Garhwal Mukhtar Mohsin told TOI, “All the 16 accused were arrested on Saturday night. Since the following day was a Sunday we could not apply for their judicial custody. On Monday, the judicial magistrate court remanded all the accused to 14 days' judicial custody.”
  
 All the 16 men, with clout, were arrested by the district police on the information that some people dressed up in army uniform and equipped with weapons, have entered the Kolhu Chaur reserve forest of Lansdowne forest division on New Years Eve on Saturday. Among these, the name of Samir Thapar was the most prominent, followed by Jayant Nanda.
 
 Divisional forest official of Lansdowne Forest Division Mayank Jha said, “Those arrested from Kolhu Chaur had taken permission from the forest department to pitch up tents. The permission was taken by one of the accused, Mohinder Singh for rest of the members of the group, whose name was not given by him in his mail.”
  
 Jha said that there is not much restriction on carrying few liqor bottles in the forest but since a lot of liquor bottles and weapons have been recovered from them, so a case would be registered against the accused by the forest department as well. He said, both the forest and police department are working in tandem with each other on this matter.
 
  The accused have been booked by police for trespassing forest land, by pitching tents, for which they could neither show the permission letter nor give any satisfactory explanation to the police. The other charges slapped on them by police are, under Excise Act for carrying some 171 liqor bottles and Arms Act for possessing weapons - 300 bore rifle, 23 live cartridges and 15 separate cartridges of 375 bore. The meat seized from the site has been sent to   to corroborate whether it was tinned meat, as claimed by the accused or of any wild animals, suspected to be hunted by them on the spot.
 
