KOLKATA: The death of a 36-year-old   resident from a mysterious fever on Tuesday has triggered a   scare among the residents of EE Block where around 25 people are already being treated for dengue or  .

 Victim Milan Banerjee was suffering from fever since last Saturday. He was admitted to   early on Monday. Banerjee, a contractor, was declared dead on Tuesday evening. 
 
 According to the death certificate, Banerjee’s cause of death was an acute viral fever with thrombocytopenia (platelet loss) and adrenal crisis leading to shock syndrome and multi-organ dysfunction. The certificate mentioned ‘panhypopituitarism’ as the antecedent cause.
 
 Even though the cause of death does not mention dengue, the dengue NS1 Elisa test taken last Sunday at a private diagnostic centre tested positive and the platelet count was also found to be below normal. Arindam Banerjee, MD of Columbia Asia Hospital, said the patient had several co-morbid conditions that led to the rapid decline of his health. “Since NS1 is not confirmatory for dengue, we had also sent his sample for IGG and IGM to find out whether it was a confirmed case of dengue,” he said.
 
 “What will my daughter do now? My grandson is only about three and he is yet to fully understand that his father is no more,” said Banerjee’s father-in-law Banabihari Chatterjee. 
 
 Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation workers on Wednesday visited Banerjee’s building with fogging machines. Local residents, however, alleged that this was just an eyewash. “Is it not ridiculous to do this after someone has already died from dengue? The civic authorities have taken no dengue control measures till date in this block and now that Banerjee has passed away they are fogging the area. Many people in this locality are suffering from dengue,” said a resident of the same apartment. 
 
 Anena Majumder, a 20-year-old student of Presidency University, who lives in the building opposite the Banerjees’, has been affected by dengue and was taken to hospital on Wednesday morning. “The fogging at this spot today is just an eyewash. There has been no initiative from the civic authorities till date to prevent a dengue outbreak in the locality,” said S Majumder, the girl’s father.
 
 Local Trinamool councillor Sudhir Saha, who visited the Banerjees on Wednesday, claimed the civic authorities have been taking all necessary vector-control measures.
 
 Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation MMIC (health) Pranay Roy, however, said there was no mention of dengue in Banerjee’s death certificate and that anybody could test NS1 positive without having dengue due to other complications. “There are reports that several others in the locality have been affected by dengue as they have only tested positive in NS1. We sent our fogging team to the spot today itself and regular measures are being taken,” he said. Roy may visit EE Block on Thursday for a spot inspection. 
 
 
