For  , bad is good. He played the antagonist in his last two big   outings, Wazir and  , as well as for his Tamil debut, Kaththi. Continuing with his ‘evil’ streak, the actor will be seen as a ‘mega villain’ in his first Telugu film, Prabhas-starrer Saaho. In a freewheeling chat with Hyderabad Times,   discusses his love for South films, his “down-to-earth” co-star,  , and more. Excerpts: 

 
 Yes, and I am very excited about it. In fact, I was one of the first few actors to sign the film, even before Bãhubali 2 (starring Prabhas) released. I had that faith and conviction in Prabhas. So, post Kaththi, I had a lot of offers pouring in from the South, but I wanted to make sure that I associate with good films and filmmakers. The moment Sujeeth (director) narrated the script of Saaho to me, I said yes. He has a great vision and concept… The script he has is really powerful. It’s a big film and I hope to live up to expectations.
 
 
 I can’t divulge too many details as of now; it won’t be fair on my part. Let the makers do more talking. All I can say is that it’s an action thriller and not just a film about a ‘hero’ or a ‘villain’. There are other strong performers in the film as well. The film is technically way ahead of its time — we have an international technical team and stunt masters working with us. Trust me, they are par excellence. A lot has gone into Prabhas’ and my look. This is my most challenging character till date; it has multiple shades to it, so you can’t put your finger to one thing. The styling is not clichéd either. These days, you can’t have one typical look for a character, so there’ll be a lot of diversity in that sense. Moreover, when there’s a ‘mega hero’, there’ll be a ‘mega villain’. I just can’t hold the film (by myself) as it’s made on a huge scale. I am so excited already. 
 
 
 That’s correct. Even for Kaththi, I had dubbed for my character myself and wish to do the same for Saaho. It’s been a while that I am taking Telugu coaching in Mumbai.
 So, right now, I am learning only my Telugu dialogues and working on the dialect and expressions as well. Considering that the film is a trilingual (in Telugu, Tamil and Hindi), we are shooting simultaneously for all three languages. At times, it gets a little difficult to get both Telugu and Tamil right, you know. But I will be taking Sujeeth’s help while I am in the dubbing studio, for sure (laughs).
 
 
 It has been great here. The entire unit is welcoming and is so good in terms of work. Trust me, for the first few days, I was in awe of them. It’s like a learning experience. The entire process is new for me and I am trying to find my road into Tollywood. We have started shooting for the film in Hyderabad and the first schedule is over. I am currently working on Golmaal Again and promoting Indu Sarkar, and will be back in Hyderabad for the next schedule in the first week of August.
 
 
 Oh, he’s a big star with a big heart. No matter how big a star he is, he has that down-to-earth vibe about him. With his growing stardom, he seems to have become humbler. I wish only the best for him; may God shower him with success.
 
 
 
