HYDERABAD: “I thought I would never return to India. I was like a wanderer in the desert, an alien in strange land and with no hopes of being able to see my family and two little children.“ These are the words of 29-year-old Sagar Daravad of Kolimikunta village of   mandal in   district.

 A mere   turned his despair into hope when   MP K Kavitha responded to his predicament. Sagar was stuck in Baghdad, Iraq, having been deceived by an agent who promised him a job in a hotel. The agent, Vijay Kumar, took 'one lakh from him. When Sagar landed in Baghdad, no one came to receive him. Adding insult to Sagar's injury, the agent switched off his mobile. Finding himself in a strange land, he begged for shelter and food from locals and workers. The hospitality of the locals didn't long last and started demanding money. But he had none to pay.
 
 “I suffered because of the agent. No one should go through the suffering I went through. Agents promise the moon but one ends up only in tragic circumstances,“ Sagar toldTOI on Tuesday.
 
 From Baghdad, Sagar was smuggled into the neighbouring Kurdistan. In Erbil, he was provided some work in a hotel by a local agent but he did not get any pay. “The police raided the room where I was taking shelter with some other workers. Since my agent did not get me an `Iqama' (work permit), I was taken by the police to a check-post and sent back to Iraq,“ he said. He did not know where to go. With Rs 40,000 salary a month as promised by the agent turning out to be a mirage and left with no money in a fore ign country , Sagar said he had felt miserable and helpless remembering his wife Radha, 10year-old son Dhanish and ninemonth-old daughter Vaishnavi.Then from gloom rose hope. Kavitha had reacted to his pitiable condition and urged the Indian Embassy to help him. They immediately stepped in and completed the necessary formalities and put him on the plane. Sagar arrived in the city on March 17, safe and is absolutely relieved.
 
 “I've had to go without basic amenities because I fell prey to the guile of a greedy agent. One has to be careful,“ he said. Sagar is an electrician having done his ITI. The promise of more money drove him to Iraq but he is grateful he has been rescued.
 
