AHMEDABAD: Acting on the report of a three-member committee that probed the   and humiliation of a student carried out outside the   on Monday, authorities of Industrial Training Institute (ITI), on Thursday, expelled seven students and suspended one instructor.

  The matter had rattled the students’ community as the offenders had not only stripped naked their classmate, but also recorded his humiliation on video and circulated the clip among students, as well as faculty, said sources. To add insult to injury, when the victim, a diesel mechanical engineering student, complained about the matter to one of his instructors, he brushed it under the rug and didn’t report to higher authorities.
 
 After a public outcry, college authorities formed a three-member inquiry committee, which submitted its report on Thursday, prompting ITI authorities to take immediate action.
 
 “The report of the inquiry committee has confirmed the involvement of these seven students in ragging one of their classmates. Therefore, we have decided to rusticate all of them,” said  , principal, ITI.
 
 “One of the instructors of diesel mechanical engineering was also suspended, because despite a complaint from the victim, he neglected the matter and did not bring it to the notice of college authorities,” Parikh said. When Parikh was asked why the ITI did not have an anti-ragging cell as mandated by the   order of 2006, he said, “We have written to our head office in Gandhinagar seeking approval. The committee will be formed once we get a nod.”
 
 Sources said the institute doesn’t even require students to sign an anti-ragging undertaking during admission.
 
 SC directive to help curb ragging menace
 
 According to the order of the Supreme Court, anti-ragging committees and squads must be formed in each institution and it is the duty of the committee or the squad to ensure that the SC directives against ragging are adhered to. The committee would also ensure that in case of deviation, the same is brought to the court’s notice.
 
