DEHRADUN: For BJP, which was regarded as a ‘friendly opposition’ (mitra vipakash) when it lost the  , 2016 has been a year when the party, according to some observers, has managed to hold its own to some extent and gain lost ground to emerge as an  .
 
  The year was one of tremendous political turmoil in which the state unit of the saffron party had its share of ups and downs. In March, the party’s Mussoorie MLA   was in the spotlight for the wrong reasons after an alleged attack on police horse Shaktiman that grabbed national headlines. In the state assembly session that followed thereafter, nine   MLAs revolted against chief minister   resulting in central rule in the state and a Supreme Court-supervised test of strength in the assembly. While BJP had the advantage of having the rebels by its side, it failed to build on the advantage resulting in the Rawat government managing to sail through the trust vote. However, the saffron party tried to pin the CM down through the sting CD which surfaced just a day before central rule was imposed that showed the chief minister allegedly negotiating a deal to buy back his dissident MLAs.
  
  Ajay Bhatt, who completed one year as the state BJP president on December 31, said that the party’s focus was on exposing the rampant corruption prevalent in the state government through mining and liquor contracts. “Through our Pardafaash (exposure) as well as Parivartan (change) rallies, we have highlighted how the state government led by CM Harish Rawat has been steeped in corruption. This is a message that we have been repeatedly taking to the people and will continue to do so in the run-up to the polls,” Bhatt said.
  
  However, the biggest challenge the party faces is within its own house. With four former chief ministers among its leaders, all nursing their own ambitions, the party is trying to put up a united front ahead of the elections but it is no secret that if it reaches the magic figure of majority in the polls, the internal scramble for the top post is going to be a messy one. Perhaps that is why, the party has chosen not to declare any CM face till now. According to political analyst Udit Ghildiyal, another challenge would be distribution of tickets. “Those leaders who are denied tickets will need to be handled deftly. Already, there are too many potential factions in the party. Keeping its flock together would be a big challenge for the BJP.”
