GURGAON: The city’s busiest junction —   — is also the most unsafe for pedestrians, reveals a study by National Transportation Research and Planning Centre ( ). The study analysed the effectiveness of various   schemes implemented by government agencies over the last few years. According to the study, Huda City Centre, which is accessed by 53,000 people on average every day, has little scope for pedestrians to cross the road, leaving them vulnerable to accidents. 

 The study has concluded that pedestrian safety is a major concern in Gurgaon and it is mostly attributed to lack of zebra crossings. 
 
 The study was by commissioned by the Gurgaon-based automobile major Maruti Suzuki India Limited. The findings, along with a list of counter measures which can be adopted to tackle the problem, were shared with the state government. “The study was conducted as part of a bigger road safety campaign, where we studied problems on the stretch from Iffco Chowk Metro station to Huda City Centre, and on to Signature Tower. Our survey at Huda City Centre concluded the junction was a pain for pedestrians, with constant traffic, no crossings and uncoordinated traffic lights,” said Mahesh Rajoria, AVP (driver training and road safety), Maruti Suzuki. He added the NATPAC research team will now work on streamlining pedestrian flow at Huda City Centre. 
 
 For the benefit of pedestrians walking from the Metro station towards Vyapar Kendra, a zebra crossing will be painted at the traffic signal, which will be coordinated with other nearby signals to allow pedestrians cross unhindered.
 
 The study concluded that better traffic management, signals and zebra crossings will help pedestrians at the crossing. Based on the findings, a dry run of the planned measures will be conducted on Saturday.If the results are positive, traffic police will implement it officially. 
 
 “Pedestrians face a lot of hardships at Huda City Centre, especially during office hours. We will run a pilot project on Saturday to streamline pedestrian traffic at the crossing,” said Balbir Singh, DCP (traffic), Gurgaon police. 
 
