KOCHI: A   proposed at   attached to  , which would have been  , is caught in  . It has been seven months since the construction of the lab building was completed using Rs 37 lakh from Anwar Sadath's MLA's fund. But the government denied nod for using blood bank's fund for procuring equipment for the lab citing that the funds of blood bank can't be used for any other purposes.

 Now, the blood bank aut horities have secured an offer from some of the PSUs that they would provide fund for purchasing equipment required. “Once the lab is started, hundreds of patients would be benefitted out of it. Since we have adequate technical staff for running the lab, the government will not have to deploy employees as well.What we need is just a nod from the government for running the diagnostic centre,“ said Dr N Vijayakumar, medi cal officer-in-charge, Regional Blood Bank, Aluva. “As we have to spend only for buying kits for the tests and meeting other miscellaneous expenses, we will be able to provide lab tests at less than 50% of what private labs charge,“ he said. The tests can be almost free of cost if the patient comes under government schemes like Rashtriya Swastha Bima Yojana (RSBY).
 
 The technical snarls could have been avoided had the clerk who drafted the letter to the government seeking app roval for starting the diagnostic centre been a bit more careful in drafting the letter.“We have given special instructions that the permission should be sought for starting the diagnostic centre as part of the Regional Blood Bank. But, when the letter was drafted, it was stated that permission should be granted for using the funds of blood banks for procuring equipment for diagnostic centre.As per the norms, the blood bank's funds cannot be used for other purposes. This is the reason why the project still remains nonfunctional,“ he said.
 
 The lab is proposed to be set up in two phases. In the first phase, there would be facilities for tests like liver function tests, renal function tests, cardiac lipid profile, diabetes profile, microbiology and hemato-oncology tests.In the second phase which can be started after one-anda-half years, there would be a pathology division. For the purpose, more space will be required. The issue can be addressed by constructing one more storey in the building which is now ready to occupy . Another requirement is that of pathologist. Once the second phase is over, all the tests including the ones for diagnosing cancer can be offered at the centre.
 
 The only comprehensive diagnostic centre in the government sector in the district is the regional diagnostic centre attached to Ernakulam general hospital. “We are able to provide all the tests and biopsy at one-third or half the rates charged by private labs,“ said Dr Meena Beevi, pathologist, regional diagnostic centre.
 
