BENGALURU: Didn't bother to retrieve copies of your identification documents from a bank executive after an unsuccessful attempt to obtain a bank card or personal loan?

 You might be in for some serious trouble.
 
 Fraudsters have been swindling lakhs of rupees using bank cards and personal loans taken in the names of innocent individuals who would have failed to reclaim their submitted documents.
 
 The victims realize they have been tricked only after the bank's collection agent gets in touch with them to retrieve the money. Many from Bengaluru who have fallen prey to such impersonation scams and faced harassment by banks have approached the Bengaluru city police. But for some, the struggle to prove their innocence continues.   (name changed) from   received a phone call last August from a man posing as an executive of SBI offering a platinum credit card. “Taking the caller for real and enticed by the credit limit, he sent copies of his documents, including salary slips, passport copy, details of a   credit card he was using and passport-size photographs,“ said an investigating officer. 
 
 While the caller never got back in touch with Kumar, six months ago he was shocked to get a call from SBI stating that he had swiped over Rs 5 lakh using his new credit card and the payment needed to be made. Perturbed, he tried telling the bank that he doesn't own an SBI card, but in vain.Unable to convince the officials, he finally lodged a po lice complaint.
 
 Investigation revealed that a credit card was taken in Kumar's name in Chennai using the documents he had provided and purchases were made to the tune of Rs 5.30 lakh. “The fraudster gave a fake address and phone number for communication and committed the fraud. SBI collection agents tracked down the complainant in Bengaluru with HDFC card de tails he had furnished, which contained his contact details,“ the officer added.
 
 In a similar case, IT engineer Alok Gupta (name changed) from Yela hanka faced an ordeal when fraudsters took a personal loan and a credit card using his credentials, which he had submitted for get ting a loan earlier. “In April 2016, I got a phone call stating that there is an outstanding amount of Rs 86,000 against my HDFC credit card which was taken in Gurugram. I tried telling them that my card has a limit of Rs 76,000 and that I have never worked in  ,“ the techie said.
 
 Even while Gupta, who has a salary account with the HDFC's branch on Venugopal Swamy Layout, Koramangala, was struggling to prove his innocence, Rs 86,000 was abruptly deducted by HDFC towards the card payment last September.
 
 “While I was struggling to figure out what was happening, I got a call from an   executive in Delhi stat ing that I have taken a personal loan of Rs. 3.5 lakh and Rs.1.17 lakh is due. Being harassed by the bank despite being a customer for years, I pulled out my CIBIL details which didn't show the card or loan details. But the bank still wouldn't buy my explanation,“ lamented the 31-yearold who then, as a last resort, approached the Ombudsman Cell at RBI, Bengaluru, which helped him clear the case a few months ago and his money was refunded.
 
 Ascertaining Gupta's case, a senior officer with the RBI's Ombudsman Cell here said increasingly such impersonation cases are being reported from Bengaluru. “It's not just fraudsters who are manipulating the system during verification processes. A customer's ignorance and carelessness at the time of parting with documents is helping these fraudsters have a free hand. One should always cross the documents like a cheque and specify the time period and purpose for submission with signature so that it can't be used for any other purpose,“ the RBI officer added.
 
