VIJAYAWADA: Showing keen interest in partnering with Andhra Pradesh government in building the capital city of Amaravati, the Sri Lankan government has suggested to chief minister N   to replicate some of the development plans initiated in the   of that country to attract tourists from across the world. 

 Sri Lanka, which chiefly depends on revenue earned from tourism, has taken up massive development of its Western province. The province accounts for just 6% of the nation's area but it houses over 26% of the total population due to focussed development, said Sri Lankan minister for Megapolis and Western province development Patali Champika Ranawaka at an interaction with the state government delegation headed by chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu on Sunday. The CM and his team studied the development plans initiated by the Western province of Sri Lanka on Sunday. 
 
 Naidu was in Sri Lanka to deliver the keynote address on poverty elimination at the grand celebrations organised to mark the birthday of  . 
 
 Making a presentation to the AP's delegation, Ranawaka said that Sri Lanka had given top priority to construction of houses, hotels and resorts in the Western province in order to give a boost to tourism in that area. "We are synchronising all the three forms of water resources -- ocean, rivers and streams to make the entire region attractive to tourists," said Ranawaka. He said Sri Lanka had achieved good results in making the region a global hotspot despite facing a little trouble with regard to acquisition of land and mobilisation of financial resources. He said they had already initiated several measures to implement cashless transactions and digitisation of all government dealings. 
 
 "Having a detailed master plan in hand and going ahead with short-term and long-term plans is crucial for the development of any region," observed Ranawaka.
 
 He said that the location of a big port, a clean environment at beaches and basic infrastructure to attract investments have played a key role in making the Western province an attractive tourist destination. He said the Sri Lankan government would join hands with the Andhra Pradesh government in the development of Amaravati if it were given an opportunity. 
 
 The CM said that the state government would take Sri Lanka as a role model while developing Amaravati.
 
 Finance minister  , panchayat raj minister Ch Ayyannapatrudu and Mepma managing director China Tataiah were also present at the occasion.
 
 
