Actor  , a regular visitor to Lucknow, was in the city on Saturday. Ajay, who got a major break on TV with  's 'Love Story', was all praises for the director whom he also considers a close pal. Not agreeing with the comments made by veteran actor   by blaming Basu and his style of working for the failure of Ranbir’s latest movie, Ajay, says, "I was with Anurag two days ago. For me Anurag is a genius. I saw his latest release and I loved it! And everyone I know, who has seen the movie, has loved it. Mujhe ek bhi aisa insaan nahi mila jise woh movie pasand na aayi ho. When I did 'Love Story' with Anurag, he narrated to me the whole script including the first and the last scene of the show. He is very thorough in his work which is not heard of in the TV industry. He is that crystal clear in his working."
He adds, "I wonder how can the tables turn suddenly when Anurag has already delivered a super hit like ' ' with Ranbir in the past. Aaj achanak se sab cheezein kaise badal sakti hain? Anurag Basu ki ek super hit film bhi Rishi Kapoor ke bete ne hi kari hai. I can't understand this whole episode."
 Being a close friend of Anurag Basu, we then ask Ajay how come he hasn’t featured in any of Basu's films and he says, "It’s sheer coincidence that a day before coming to Lucknow, when Anurag and I were together, I joked with him ki 'dada mujhe hero bana do aap. Ghar ka hi hero le lo aap' and he was like, 'Tu bhi ghar ka nahi rahega, tu bhi bhaag jayega'. But on a serious note, we have plans of working together in a movie soon." 
 Having a karmic connect with Lucknow, Ajay says he has now made several friends in Lucknow. "Lucknow UP mein mera favourite sheher hai. I have made a lot of friends here as people here are really friendly and warm in nature. Itne saalon se main yahan aa raha hoon ki ab yeh sheher mujhe apna hi lagta hai. I am a UPite myself being from Ghaziabad. I am so fond of Lucknow, that in the BOX cricket league, a sports reality show where television actors are seen competing with each other in an indoor cricket game format, I opted to own a team in the name of Lucknow Nawabs. Such is my love for the city," says Ajay, who has done serials like ' ' and 'Phulwa'.
 Playing a father to a teenage girl in his upcoming serial 'Rishton Ka Chakravyuh', Ajay says he had to prepare himself mentally to age on screen. "I have done different sort of characters - both positive and negative on TV. I have even played a rapist in a serial. So when this serial was offered to me, I had to convince myself to play a father. In the end I only weighed how powerful my character is in the serial. Also, I have realized that one can not not play a father. There comes a stage when such roles are offered to every actor irrespective of their age," he says.
 
