MUMBAI: Four decades after it was conceptualised in the 1970s, work on the Mumbai   (MTHL) is expected to start by the year-end or beginning of 2018. MMRDA has finalised the contractors for the all the three packages (parts) of the 22.6 km corridor that will provide faster connectivity between south Mumbai and Navi Mumbai.

 MTHL will cut travel time between south Mumbai and Navi Mumbai by an hour. The approval for various studies was given in 1996.
 
 Contract for the 16.5 kmlong sea bridge had been split into two components. The contracts were won by consortia of L&T-IHI Japan and TataDaewoo, whose bids were finalised on Thursday . Both had quoted 15% more than the estimated cost.“We have now finalised the contract for the road component too which is 6 km long,“ said MMRDA commissioner UPS Madan. The contract has been won by L&T, which quoted 22.5% lower than the estimated cost. Madan said, “Cumulatively , the total cost of these bids is11% higher than the estimated cost. However, there will be negotiations with the bidders and we are definitely hopeful of bringing down the cost.“
 
 An official said the work order would be issued by October and the project has to be executed in four-and-a-half years. The Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) has committed to fund 85% of the total project cost of Rs 17,843 crore. Another MMRDA official said, “With GST, we feel that the cost will come down. As of now, the cost of the project is Rs 14000 core but the completion cost is Rs 17,843 crore. The actual cost can also vary depending on how fast or late the work is executed by the contractor.“
 
 MMRDA decided to execute the project on cash contract after it failed to receive single bid from the pre-qualified consortia till Aug 2013 when it tried to take the project on Public Private Partnership (PPP) basis. In December 2016, Prime Minister   laid the foundation stone for the much-awaited project.
 
 MMRDA has received bids from 17 contractors from out of the 29 shortlisted for the three packages of the project. The union government had barred Chinese firms from the project.
 
