KOLKATA: The   are now examining the legal provisions of questioning senior  , irrespective of them being present or absent during the admission of accident victim Sanjay Roy , his subsequent death in another hospital and his family's allegation of negligence, inflated bills and delay by Apollo to discharge him. The police exercise is aimed at finding out if the absent officials could be charged with “vicarious criminal liability“, whereby an employer can be responsible for hisher employees' criminal acts.

 The police have already recorded the statements of 11 Apollo employees, seven of them doctors and four non-medic staffers.
 
 A source pointed out that senior Apollo officials -including some of the doctors -who have been questioned, were seeking independent legal opinion as well, exploring the ir legal rights should they be indicted. At least one doctor, the source said, was already weighing the option of applying for anticipatory bail though the legal opinion did not quite point to that immediately . The state probe, which has found faults with the hospital, its doctors and officials, has only given fillip to these behind-the-scene parleys.
 
 The police said they planned to approach the Apollo authorities on three counts. One, they will check whether there had indeed been an “angry conversation“ between Roy's relatives and friends and the hospital staffers in the billing area or not. “The CCTV grab indicates an argument but the investigation is at a preliminary stage,“ said a source.Two, the police suspected that anomalies might have crept in between the provisional bill handed over to the family and the final bill. “This was one definite allegation that we are probing,“ said an officer. Thirdly, said the police, they would investigate Apollo staffers' claim that they had merely been foot-soldiers taking orders from the top. “If the seniors had indeed given out the orders, it is important to fix their responsibility ,“ an officer told TOI. The police said they wanted to ascertain if anyone had seen the family being pressured to pay up.
 
 The police indicated they were likely to question five more people.Around 4 pm on Monday , two doctors from the hospital, critical care specialist Chandrashish Chakraborty and Laboni Basu, recorded their statements at the police station; Apollo's chief financial officer (CFO)   has been asked to report to the police station.Among the other doctors, who have already recorded their statements are Dr Subba Rao and Dr Shyamal Sarkar, a general surgeon named in the FIR by Sanjay Roy's widow Ruby .
 
 Earlier, in response to a notice, Apollo submitted a 450-page report to the police, which also annexed the Sequential Organ Failure Assessment score (SOFA score). This test, used to track a person's status during the stay in an intensive care unit (ICU) to determine the rate of failure of a person's organ, had estimated Roy could have been alive for 28 more days. After being treated at Apollo for eight days, Roy was shifted to   on February 24 and within hours, died. Doctors have testified that Roy had undergone a prolonged surgery to stop blood loss from his injured liver. The police confirmed they received the initial report from the SSKM Hospital.
 
 
