GREATER NOIDA: A   that lured girls from poor families by promising good education but sold them to customers in Haryana and Rajasthan was busted in Greater Noida on Thursday.
Three girls from Gorakhpur, siblings aged 14, 15 and 16, were rescued. Police made a total of five arrests -Arvind Kumar (40), his wife Kamlesh (38) and their son-in-law   (25), the trio that ran the racket from Greater Noida, and the two men who had `bought' the girls.
 
 Mahesh, a 26-year-old resident of Mahendergarh in Haryana, paid the racket Rs 5 lakh for one of the girls and married her after she was brought to him, police said. Ganesh (26) of Alwar had struck a similar deal and paid Rs 3.5 lakh for the other girl. The youngest of the three sisters was kept in confinement till a “match“ was found. A police team rescued her from Bulandshahr, where Arvind, Kamlesh and Yogesh are originally from.
 
 The smooth-talking Arvind, investigators said, was the kingpin of the racket. It was he who had convinced the girls' father to send them to him, promising he would take care of their education. The gullible Gorakhpur resident did.But when he came to the flat in Omicron-1 where his daughters were to have their new lodgings, he would the apartment locked. He failed to contact Arvind or the three girls. That's when he went to the police.
 
 The girls' father said he had met Arvind at a hospital. Arvind had claimed he was a wealthy man and could provide good education to his daughters for free. He agreed and sent the girls, who were to be based in the rented Omicron flat. A police case was filed on January 19. Sujata Singh, SP (rural), said police put Kumar's phone under surveillance and arrested him and his wife from a flat in the same sector.
 
 Arvind's interrogation led them to Manoj in Mahendergarh and Ganesh in Alwar.The youngest girl was with Yogesh in Bulandshahr. It also unearthed a more sinister plan. Arvind told the police he had advised the girls to flee from the houses of the men they were sold to after marriage so that he could sell them again. “He gave a pack of sleeping pills to the minors before they were sold. The girls were told to spike the drinks of their new family with the pills and flee,“ police said. The girls were also told to make a call to Arvind after they fled. Arvind's plan was to use them to strike similar deals with other men.
 
