PUNE: Social crusader Anna   on Wednesday announced that he will start an agitation to protest against the Union government’s apathy in appointing the   even three years after coming to power and said he does not accept the reason cited by the government to explain the delay.

 Addressing a news conference at his native village Ralegan Siddhi in the afternoon, Hazare said that he will announce the date of his agitation in another letter to be sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi shortly. He said his decision to start the agitation has been conveyed to Modi in a letter sent on Tuesday. 
 
 Hazare said the government has said that the committee to select Lokpal can not be constituted because the post of leader of opposition, who is to be member of the selection committee, is still vacant in the  .
 
 “Things have not changed in the last three years and the post still remains vacant. However if the new chief of CBI can be appointed in the absence of the leader of opposition, why can’t the Lokpal be selected?”, he wondered and said that the government does not appear serious about Lokpal’s appointment.
 
 Hazare said even if one accepted that Lokpal can not be appointed in the absence of leader of opposition, at least Lokayuktas could have been appointed in all states. The Union government said that appointments of Lokayuktas is the responsibility of the state governments concerned and they have been suitably advised. 
 
 “But even states where the   (BJP) is in power, the Lokayuktas have not been appointed. It is difficult to accept that   governments would not have followed the Prime Minister’s order, had such instructions been issued”, Hazare stated.
 
 The Gandhian pointed out that the present government’s assurance to end corruption is not translated into a reality and common people still have to grease palms to get their work done.
 
 The “Times Cartoonist Hunt” is now your chance to be the next legendary cartoonist. Send us 2 original cartoons, one on current affairs and the second on any subject of your choice. All entries must be uploaded on www.toicartoonisthunt.com by 5th April 2017. Alternatively, you can email your entries at toicartoons@gmail.com with your Name, Age, City and Mobile number. Gear up, the Hunt has begun!
 
