PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The BJP and   may try to take their chances and contest all the 128 seats in Pimpri Chinchwad on their own. An alliance may happen only after the elections results are declared next month. 

 Both parties have said they are positive about a tie-up but seat-sharing talks are locked over different proposals given by both parties. Both said they have capable candidates who will win all the seats. 
 
 In the 2012 municipal elections, the BJP had won just three seats, while the Shiv Sena bagged 14. The BJP now claims that it wants over 55 seats. 
 
 At least three meetings have been held in the last 15 days with senior leaders of both parties. These included Chinchwad BJP MLA and city president Laxman Jagtap, Bhosari MLA Mahesh Landge, Azam Pansare who has recently joined the BJP, and Shiv Sena convenor for Pune Amol Kolhe, Maval MP Shrirang Barne and Shirur MP Shivajirao Adhalrao Patil, both from the Shiv Sena. 
 
 In the recent assembly elections in October 2014, the BJP decided to break their 25-year-old alliance and decided to contest the elections on its own. 
 
 In the three assembly constituencies in Pimpri Chinchwad, the Chinchwad seat was won by Laxman Jagtap, Pimpri seat went to   Gautam Chabukswar, and Bhosari seat was bagged by independent MLA Mahesh Landge, who recently joined the BJP in the presence of chief minister  . 
 
 Chabukswar has said a final decision about the alliance will be announced by Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray. Jagtap has said that the alliance is likely to be finalized by January 28. Poll observers feel that the ruling NCP, which has been winning with a huge majority in the last two municipal elections, can be dislodged only if there is a BJP-Shiv Sena alliance. 
 
 The BJP’s war room survey states that it could win about 75 to 80 seats (Bhosari assembly constituency 27 to 32 seats, Chinchwad assembly constituency 29 to 34 seats, and   constituency 16 to 21 seats). The Shiv Sena too has conducted a survey, but is keeping its cards close to its chest.
 
