PANAJI: A   of Salvador do Mundo panchayat unanimously resolved that the possession of the existing  , which was given to the panchayat by the church, be transferred back to the church after the construction of the new panchayat complex is completed.

 The church authorities had given the land to the panchayat in 1965 to build the panchayat ghar. A new panchayat ghar complex with a playground is under construction on the southern side of the church, barely 300 metres from the existing one.
 
 In a meeting on Sunday, chaired by sarpanch  , the members discussed the issue and said the land and the structure should be transferred to the church once the panchayat office shifts to the new one. “The possession should be transferred to Salvador do Mundo church at no cost basis to reciprocate its kind gesture of allowing the construction of panchayat building and to utilize the land free of cost for 50 years,” a resolution tabled by Alex D’Souza, a member stated.
 
 Panchayat authorities and others tried to raise issues related to documents and legal aspects. No request has been received from church authorities, they said. But members pointed out they were requesting it as parishioners. They prevailed upon the panchayat to examine the issues later and the resolution was passed.
 
 On other issues like budget, members learnt house tax arreats till date have mounted to Rs 19 lakh. A member alleged 60% houses in   have been sold or tenanted to non-defence persons. “They should not be exempted from paying house tax,” a member said. 
 
 Another member said tenants should pay a month’s rent to panchayat annually as per rules. It was suggested that the panchayat should take police help to find out about tenanted houses to rake up more revenue. Members also expressed concern about breaching of sluice gates and flooding of fields. 
 
 “The road is likely to be washed away,” said a member. The members also urged the panchayat to inform the collector to prevent further destruction.
 
