PANAJI: Members of civil society have alleged that government authorities have not taken up the matter of a tribal man not getting his voting rights for the recently concluded state assembly elections. 

 As per a complaint filed,  , belonging to the Vanarmare tribe, did not receive his voting card even when 40 members of his clan got inked for the first time in history. 
 
 Sharing the details, advocate, Satish Sonak said that the problem arose when the joint mamlatdar of the Shiroda region, who was also serving as the assistant registration election officer rejected Pawar’s application on the grounds of insufficient documents. 
 
 “Forty one members of the Vanarmare tribe were eligible and 40 received their voting cards. The mamlatdar dismissed Pawars’ application stating that he does not hold sufficient documents. An appeal was made to the deputy collector (South) on November 7, 2016, but neither the claim has been rejected or allowed,” Sonak shared, adding that had the office of the deputy collector (South) taken a decision and rejected the claim, the appeal would have been taken to the office of the chief electoral officers.
 
 “Though no official word has come, authorities are taking it as just a singular case. We have been told that even if the appeal had been accepted, Pawar would have missed the deadline of getting added to the voter list. The voter list was finalized in January 2017, whereas we have been fighting the case since November 2016,” Sonak said.
 
 Sonak, who is the convener of the Goa People’s Forum, said that the tribe faced trouble even in getting their voting rights and accused that this is mainly because from the grudge of the villagers who live in the neighbouring area. 
 
 “If these people get their voting rights, they are entitled to other proof of identifications as well. That is why hurdles were created for them. No candidate came to them to listen to their problems during the campaigning period,” Sonak said, adding that they are still trying to get a voting card for Pawar so he can vote in the upcoming panchayat elections.
 
 
