AURANGABAD: Generators of   in bulk quantity like housing societies, hotels and restaurants, marriage halls, educational institutions, commercial establishments and bus stands may soon have develop their own garbage disposal system as the civic body is working on a proposal to stop lifting garbage from these places. 

 Municipal authorities want all entities generating more than 100 kg solid waste per day to start processing their garbage, instead of dumping it anywhere else. The   ( ) will also not allow the generators to dump their solid waste in   dumping yard.
 
 Vikram Mandurke, assistant municipal commissioner, said the move is aimed at reducing the quantity of garbage arriving in the main yard. "We want these bulk generators to create their own facility and treat garbage at their own end. It is part of our policy to decentralise the garbage disposal system," he said.
 
 As of now the AMC is collecting garbage from the door step of these bulk generators at a nominal rate. "But now we will stop collection of garbage from them. The central government has already issued directions in this regard," he said.
 
 The civic body will soon call a meeting of all bulk garbage generators to officially inform them about the move. "We will specially ask them to create their own facility for garbage treatment. But those who do not wish to treat garbage at their end may handover the waste to civic body for which they will be charged separately," he said.
 
 Mandurke said the charges are yet to be finalised but he dropped clear hints that it would not be reasonable. "Our main objective is to decentralise city's garbage handling in a big way for which we want to motivate the masses. We firmly believe that if all the bulk generators start treating garbage, the city will witnesses a sea of change in solid waste management. Besides reducing burden on the civic infrastructure, the move would also reduce the quantity of garbage being dumped in Naregaon yard," he said.
 
 The civic body dumps about 150 to 160 truckloads of garbage in the Naregaon dumping yard disposing over 450 metric tonne of garbage on a daily basis. 
 
