GUWAHATI: Fighting to contain   at home, the state is finding it difficult to meet the   (EC) requirement for its forces to be deployed on   in Manipur. 

 "We have to send a huge number of our personnel to Manipur. We can't ignore this because it is for poll duty and has been requisitioned by the EC. When elections were held in our state, police forces from Manipur and   were deployed," a source said.
 
 The state is expected to send out at least 3,000 of its police personnel to neighbouring Manipur. It has, however, requested the EC for a lower number of police personnel to be deployed and asked for a date after Republic Day for dispatching the men.
 
 The EC, along with the Union ministry of home affairs, has put security as the top priority in troubled Manipur to ensure a free and fair election, to be held in two phases on March 4 and 8.
 
 The home ministry had earlier written to the EC to defer election in the state, citing the ongoing tension over the indefinite economic blockade called by Naga groups against the creation of seven new districts by the Congress-ruled state government. 
 
 The home ministry had also cited shortage of security forces, but the plea was rejected by the EC which announced polls in Manipur along with four other states.
 
 Apart from the law and order situtation, four militant groups which have teamed up with Ulfa (I) to carry out attacks against security forces are an additional area of concern for the authorities. 
 
 The MHA has informed the EC about the availability of 85,000 central police forces for election duty in the poll-bound states of Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Goa, Uttarakhand and Manipur - most of whom will be deployed in Uttar Pradesh alone.
 
 The Centre has already sent 40 additional companies of central paramilitary force to Manipur to help the administration bring the blockade to an end. 
 
 A source said that while these companies will be used for maintaining law and order, there is a huge requirement of forces for poll duty.
 
 
