KOLKATA: With the   ordering a shutdown of liquor bars and restaurants within 500m of state and national highways, more than 10,000 people employed at 1,800 such outlets in Bengal stare at uncertainty over their livelihood. While a sizeable section of owners have pinned their hopes on the government to find a way out, some, resigned to their fate, are thinking of relocating business.

 State labour and law minister Moloy Ghatak declined to comment but sources said the government was exploring some options.
 
 The apex court order came as a double whammy to hoteliers and restaurateurs, who were already reeling from a sales dip owing to sporadic supply after the state's decision to form   State Beverages Corp Ltd for wholesale distribution of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL). 
 
 “Three of our barcum-restaurants have been shut following the SC order. One of them was on NH-6 near Uluberia, another along GT Road at Salkia and the other along  , NH-113. These three employed 22 people, who are now without jobs. We don't know what lies ahead. We believe the state should appeal against the order, or get some reprieve,“ said Deb Kumar Gayen, whose family runs six such restaurants in Howrah.
 
 Anxiety was palpable when Sukhbir Singh, owner of   at Kolaghat off NH-6, said, “I do not understand the legalities or how far we can appeal against it. It has had a huge impact on business. Relocation to another place, which is beyond 500m of a highway, is not impossible, though fraught with implications.“ Singh employed more than 150 people at his establishment. “If the offand on-shops have to close down, I do not know what will happen to the people who working there,“ he said, adding that he pinned his hopes on the state.“I think they will consider our problems.“
 
 Sales for Sher-e-Punjab restaurant near Kolkata airport, which received at least 250 guests on weekends, halved on the very first day of the prohibition. “Many of the guests were not aware that even the bars and restaurants on   would fall under the restriction and asked for alcohol. When we told them we could not sell alcohol, they left,“ said restaurant owner Parminder Singh. More than 70 staffers worked there. “It seems I will have to downsize the workforce if the scene doesn't improve,“ said Singh.
 
 India's Smile, an NGO that worked with the   against illegal bars, considered taking legal action to ensure reprieve for the affected establishments.“Apart from waiters and cooks, a host of other employees earns a living from these joints. A small economy that revolves around these restaurants will be severely impacted,“ said Rajib Sarkar, founder of the NGO. “Some bar owners and employees have got in touch with us and we are looking into possible legal routes to help them out.“
 
 One of the restaurants run by Azad Hind Dhaba owner Rajesh Sharma was at Rajarhat, keeping it out of the SC highway order purview.“Those located on the national highway are highly dependant on alcohol sales.They will most likely witness a drop in business,“ he said.
 
