NAVI MUMBAI:  ,   additional commissioner, hit the   venue on Sunday and urged participants to do their bit in keeping the city clean. He stressed on public participation in promoting plastic-free Navi Mumbai and emphasized on segregating dry and wet waste, making optimal use of NMMC’s digital services and planting trees.

 “Happy Streets has become a large platform from where the civic administration can appeal to the people of this city to lead a healthy life and make small contribution towards the environment. NMMC would like to take active part in the finale with several awareness programmes,” said Chavan.
 
 A huge crowd took part in the talent hunt competition arena by  . When the shortlisted candidates performed to the best of their ability in a dance competition, spot entrants were given a platform to showcase their dancing skills. The finale will be held next Sunday. 
 
 “We got a very good response for our flagship talent show called ‘I Can’. We will prepare a bigger stage for the grand finale,” said Rakesh Prajapati, director of Prajapati Group.
 
 Kids made the street their canvas and created beautiful artworks. Participants were exposed to Bollywood dance at a workshop conducted by choreographers. “I learnt Bollywood-style steps and moves,” said  , a 12-year-old Nerul resident. Poster exhibition and competition on dance had prizes for best entries.
 
 TOI’s rent-free cycles ran out of stock with cyclists exploring the opportunity to pedal for fitness. “I often take cycle rides, even for a brief periods,” said a banker,  .
 
 Aum Health and Wellness Centre introduced yoga and fitness training. TOI main stage had fun games besides zumba and bokwa. Pickleball arena attracted a huge crowd. “The response was overwhelming,” said Rajesh Waghmare, initiator of pickleball in Navi Mumbai.
 
 Children and their parents were engaged in badminton, football, hula-hoop and fun games along the street. 
 
 An initiative of NMMC and city traffic police, powered by Prajapati Developers and supported by TOI, Happy Streets is in its 5th season. 
 
 
