New Delhi: Terming it as a ‘fishing expedition’, Delhi   on Wednesday dismissed a plea by chief minister Arvind   seeking personal   of union minister  .

 The union minister has filed a defamation suit against Kejriwal for levelling baseless allegations. In response to the suit, the AAP leader had filed a plea seeking details of bank accounts, tax returns and other financial records of Jaitley, which came up for hearing before Justice R S Endlaw.
 
 The judge pointed out that Kejriwal’s plea, which also sought the bank statements of the union minister’s family members and companies in which he had over 10% shareholding, is akin to a “fishing or roving enquiry.”
 
 HC made it clear that the onus is on Kejriwal and others who levelled allegations to prove their authenticity.
 
 The court also rejected Kejriwal’s second plea to remove parts of Jaitley’s evidence on the ground that these were absent in the original suit where the BJP leader sought Rs 10 crore damages from Kejriwal,  , Kumar Vishwas, Ashutosh, Sanjay Singh and  .
 
 The AAP leaders allegedly attacked Jaitley and his family members in various forums, including social media, over alleged irregularities and financial bungling in the Delhi and District Cricket Association (DDCA), of which he was the president for about 13 years till 2013.
 
 The central minister has consistently denied the allegations as baseless and motivated. Meanwhile, AAP leader Raghav Chadha got some relief when HC allowed his plea to frame an additional issue that statements made by him in public forums against a public figure are privileged from defamatory action.
 
 The court also allowed his plea for filing original annual reports and statements of accounts of DDCA for the period from 2000-01 to 2012-13.
 
 Appearing for the AAP leaders, senior advocates H S Phoolka and   argued that they needed financial documents of the union minister to cross examine his claim that he didn’t indulge in any irregularities during the time DDCA was under his charge. Jaitley, represented by senior advocates Pratibha Singh and Rajiv Nayyar also opposed the plea of AAP leaders to frame additional issues in the matter.
 
