AHMEDABAD: Scientists at the   have successfully realigned the orbit of the Mars Orbiter Mission (MOM) Mangalyaan on Tuesday so that the satellite is not affected by long-duration eclipse, said   chairman A S   on Thursday. Kumar also added that work on ISRO's ambitious South Asia satellite project has begun. The satellite is expected to be launched by March this year, he said.

 Kumar was in the city to attend the sixth Gujarat Technological University’s (GTU) convocation, where more than 87,258 students of the university were awarded degrees - 3,455 students were awarded MBA degrees and 2,669 students Master of Engineering (ME) degrees alongwith 2,551 students MCA degrees and 20 students were awarded PhDs.
 
 “The duration of the eclipse was so long that had we done nothing, the Mangalyaan's battery capacity would have got exhausted due to lack of sun rays. No effect of the eclipse was felt on Mangalyaan yesterday,” said Kumar. He added, “On January 17 evening, we manoeuvred to change the orbit of Mangalyaan and reduced the duration of eclipse,” Kumar told reporters here on sidelines of  's convocation.
 
 “The experiment was successful. The spacecraft still has 30 kg fuel left, and with realignment we expect it to work for a very long time to come,” Kumar said.
 
 Recently NASA-spaceflight magazine reported how the journal  , mentioned results of one of the instruments aboard on MOM, the Mars Exospheric Neutral Composition Analyser (MENCA) – which, corroborated detection of briny water solutions on the Martian surface. For MOM, whose primary purpose was to serve as a technology demonstration for ISRO this discovery was a major achievment.
 
 The correction in the trajectory of Mangalyaan was required to keep the power supply strong during the eclipse - caused by shadow of Mars falling on it for 7 to 8 hours - so that it could continue to function longer, as Mangalyaan's battery cannot support long-duration eclipse. 
 
 On the South Asia satellite project Kumar added: “Work on assembly of rocket has begun and we expect to launch it by March. The satellite will be carried on GSLV Mark II. The satellite will have provisions for telecommunication and disaster monitoring, among others.” He also informed that work on ‘Chandrayaan II’ has begun and the satellite is expected to be launched in the first half of 2018.
 
 
