New Delhi: Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh on Wednesday moved to the Supreme Court challenging the Delhi high court verdict refusing to quash a disproportionate assets case against him, and accused the NDA government of political vendetta. 

 Singh, in his plea, sought immediate stay of the high court order and claimed that with the change in government at the centre, the stand of the CBI has also altered. 
 
 "It is pertinent to mention that the stand of the CBI has changed with the change in government against the petitioners and therefore, the case as set up by the CBI is nothing but political vendetta by the present government at the centre," he said. 
 
 He claimed that during the investigation, the CBI had also looked into the allegations made by advocate Prashant Bhushan through his letter to the agency and a petition before the Delhi High Court. 
 
 The CBI has filed four status reports in the High Court of Delhi in sealed cover regarding the investigation being carried out relating to the petitioners, the plea said. 
 
 "The aforesaid reports were never opened by the court, till the time the writ petition filed by Prashant Bhushan was disposed of," it said. 
 
 Singh alleged that he was not allowed to see the closure report of the first inquiry and when the order was reserved by the high court, the status report filed by the CBI was perused by the court, but the content of which is still unknown to him. 
 
 "The fourth status report, which has been prepared after the change in government at the Centre without submitting the closure report regarding the first preliminary enquiry, proposed to investigate the matter from the disproportionate assets perspective, which was already being investigated in the first preliminary enquiry," he said. 
 
 The chief minister said that there was no new information to initiate a fresh investigation against him and his wife and subjecting them to double investigation on same information is impermissible under law. 
 
 He said that the high court has committed "grave error" in law by dismissing his petition seeking to quash the FIR against him and his wife. 
 
 "In the instant case, the high court committed grave error in law in dismissing the writ petition filed by him and others seeking quashing of the FIR dated September 23, 2015 under section 13(1)(e), 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 read with section 109 of IPC," he said. PTI
 
 
