JALANDHAR: For years,   of the Congress and had a major support base in Adi-dharmis Ravidassia and Valmikis Majhbis. However, after the BSP came on the political scene, Congress's prospects were affected as the former was able to  . But Valmikis, on the other hand, preferred not to go with the BSP despite its founder Kanshi Ram's best efforts.

 Though  , the party could not transform itself from a potential third force to an actual third alternative or holding balance of power-except influencing results on some seats in the state.
 
 “While Kanshi Ram believed in experimenting and used to devise new strategies according to changing times. Mayawati, on the other hand, remained firm on not having alliance with any party in Punjab even as out of her four terms as the CM of UP she reached the post three times in alliance with other parties. As the party did not come to power despite making its first mark in 1989 parliamentary elections, its base has been shrinking,“ said a senior BSP leader.
 
 In the last decade, SAD has also managed to make inroads in the Dalit bastion as it was able to woo some BSP leaders. In the 2014 parliamentary elections, several party leaders joined AAP too. Over the years, quite a few BSP leaders have joined other parties and their careers have thrived. In this election the party is battling for survival with its vote share touching 1.9% in 2014.
 
 Only two of the 12 candidates who gained maximum votes among party candi dates are in the fray from the BSP while five left and five have not been given tickets.
 
 The two largest Scheduled Caste communities do not get along and the political infighting between leaders of both has come to the fore during ticket distribution in all parties. Noted singer Hans Raj Hans articulated it quite strongly during his stints in SAD and the Congress that no single party could claim its hold over these communities. The two appear to be politically competing with each other rather than giving up their caste identities under the larger Dalit identity .
 
 
 
 
 Post Talhan, the killing of Dera Sachkhand Ballan deputy head Sant Ramanand in a temple in Vienna, and subsequent violence in parts of Punjab, led to polarization of Sikhs and Adi-dharmis. In Jan 2010, the dera announced the formation of a separate religion, Ravidassia, with a new granth “Amrit Bani“. Placing the granth in shrines of the community also led to tension in several villages. The polarization was also visible in the 2012 poll results as BSP gained on some seats in Doaba.
 
