KOLKATA: Chandan Mondal, a PG student at Jadavpur University, in March complained against hostel superintendent alleging discrimination. VC Suranjan Das had formed a committee to look into the matter after an FIR was lodged. 

 Presidency teacher Mahitosh Mondal had alleged a section of students commented on his caste and even named a dog after him in 2015. 
 
 International Relations department in an elite institution had allegedly arranged a separate classroom for students who had taken admissions under the reserved category to sit in the semester exam. 
 
 The death of  , a meritorious   student from an under-privileged SC background, has brought the spotlight back on the ‘integration’ problems that students like him face at some of the city’s better campuses.
 
 The news of Mandal has left a section of SC/ST and OBC student community seething in anger. Prabhakar Biswas, a fourth-year mining engineering student at   who originally hailed from Ranaghat, has faced a similar crisis. But a fighter that he is, Biswas managed to survive. “Not knowing English is a major problem for students from Bengali or Hindi medium schools. At central institutes, even students from the southern states face a similar crisis,” he said.
 
 Financial constraint is another concern where students from underprivileged section are forced to delay the fee payment. 
 
 Some JU students alleged “elitism” on campus. “We have faced comments like how can we study in an institution like JU as we hardly deserve to be enrolled here,” said Mithun Mazumdar, a research scholar. “Language is, of course, a barrier in castism. We have bagged Rajib Gandhi National fellowship which is exclusively for the SC/ST and OBC candidates. We have to give exams after which our research proposals are accepted. Only 2000 students secure the scholarship. Yet, we are looked down upon,” pointed out Biswaroop Pramanik, another research fellow. 
 
  “At times, district students who have a different sense of dressing are often called names. Students feel demoralised. They are bluntly reminded that they belonged to the reserved category,” pointed out another JU student. 
 
 Some of the students claimed they were not encouraged to lodge a complaint. “We are told that it will be manipulated. The process is cumbersome. There are cells against sexual harassment or ragging but for caste discrimination no helpline or sensatisation programs are held,” said a student of Calcutta University.
 
