MUMBAI: A Kerala businessman has approached the city police claiming that a Mumbai woman has extorted over Rs 1 crore after blackmailing him over his nude photos. The city crime branch has conducted an inquiry and is likely to file an FIR. 

 In 2010, the 45-year-old businessman came to Mumbai to buy a luxury car and was put in touch with the woman by a friend. She met him at the airport, claimed to be working for an airline and went with him to the car showroom. During the meeting, she narrated how she was taking care of her "ill" mother. Sympathising with her, the man gave her Rs 15,000 and returned to Kerala.
 
 The cops have found out that the woman gave him a fake name, and did not work with any airline but was a sports trainer from the western suburbs.
 
 After the first meeting, the two began chatting over phone and messaging. After they had become good friends, one day the man asked how her mother was. The woman said she was not well and sought help. The man transferred Rs 49,000 to her brother's account. Over time, they got intimate, and one day she sent him her nude photos and asked the man to reciprocate. The businessman did.
 
 He kept assisting her, but finally in 2014, consumed by doubt, he called up a reputed hospital where she had said her mother was admitted. The hospital said no such woman was a patient there. He called up the woman, but she said they could not pay the bill and hence the hospital had kicked her out. After this, the businessman stopped sending money.
 
 "Angry, she started blackmailing the man and threatened that if he did not send money, she would send his nude picture and their adult conversations to his family. The businessman got scared and sent some money. But the blackmailing did not stop. One day, the woman called up his wife in Kerala and told her that her husband was having an illicit relationship with her. Confronted, the man narrated his ordeal to his family and stopped sending money," said a source. The next time she asked for money, the man approached the cops, but by then he had already paid over Rs 1 crore.
 
