BENGALURU:   can heave a sigh of relief as nealy 200 independent   in Karnataka decided not to   more than 10% every year.

 Their associations said schools will follow it from this academic year. However, the associations said on Monday that Christian institutions are not yet part of it but talks were on. The decision was taken on April 7 at a meeting of representatives of ICSE and CBSE schools.
 
 “The decision puts a cap on increasing fees at the whims and fancies of school managements,“ said Mohan Manghnani, president, ICSE Schools' Association. At le ast 85 ICSE and 110 CBSE schools in Karnataka are part of the association.
 
 “While many schools were anyway increasing fees within the 10% limit, there were others who increased it more. The uniform rule will apply to all schools that are under the association,“ Manghnani added. Schools like Greenwood High International, Deens Academy , Gear International, Delhi Public Schools (north, south and east), Presidency, Oxford, Little Flower and New Horizon are among the schools which have adopted the new policy. The meeting concluded that if any school has to increase fees over 10%, it would have to seek parents' consent and give reasons for the hike, Manghnani said. The Karnataka government tabled a bill amending the Karnataka Education Act on March 27, bringing all CBSE and ICSE schools under the government's purview so that it can regulate and monitor fee hikes by schools.
 
 “The government's role in keeping a check on schools and fees is, perhaps, not required as it would further lead to deterioration in quality of education. Private schools and educators play an important role. The moment our resources are curtailed, we'll be forced to compromise on the quality of education we provide,“ Manghnani said.
 
 Mansoor A Khan, president, Managements of Independent CBSE Schools Association, Karnataka, which has 110 member-schools, said a self-regulatory mechanism is needed. “In a week's time, parents of CBSE member schools can share their grievances on fees,“ he said.
 
 “We'd like parents to send their wards with pride to our schools. We do not want them to undergo any undue pressure.Education has to be an inspiring journey undertaken by teachers, students and parents,“ added Manghnani.
 
 
 
 
 The association of ICSE and CBSE schools has done well to arrive at a cap on the  . It perhaps pre-empts any move by the government to decide the quantum of hike. The arbitrariness of the hike has always been a source of avoidable uncertainty and tension for parents of school-going kids. While schools no doubt have to cope with rising operating costs, the cap will ensure they don't charge beyond what is reasonable and justifiable. The cap will ensure that schools don't become money-spinning machines for promoters.
 
 
