RANCHI: Jharkhand Vikas Morcha-Prajatantrik ( ) said it will renew its political offensive against Raghubar Das-led BJP government in the state by initiating a state-wide road blockade on May 18. 

 The party’s working committee met on Wednesday in the Vidhan Sabha auditorium in Ranchi and passed a resolution for initiating the blockade in a peaceful manner. 
 
 JVM-P president and former chief minister Babulal Marandi said the road blockade will be preceded by a torchlight procession across the district headquarters on the evening of May 16. 
 
 The JVM-P working committee passed an eight-fold charter of demands which will be submitted to the state government. The demand includes an immediate halt on the acquisition process of 2,500 acres land in Godda for the Adani Group’s thermal power plant and initiation of a judicial probe. Marandi also demanded that the state government dropped all charges against JVM-P’s Poreiyahat legislator Pradeep Yadav and release him from the police custody. 
 
 Yadav was arrested during an indefinite hunger strike against the proposed plant in Gaighat in Godda last month. He was charged of misleading the people and disrupting government work when he led a group of villagers to one of the public hearings arranged by district authority on March 5.
 
 Marandi criticised the district authority’s role in the land acquisition process again on Wednesday after it organizsd a third public hearing on Monday in three villages of Motiya block. 
 
 “The government should heed gross sentiments of the people instead of making way for corporates to fill their coffers,” he told media persons in Ranchi. 
 
 Inviting common people to spontaneously participate in the “chakka jam” (road blockade), Marandi said similar blockades will be put up till the time the government does not rollback the amendments to the Chotanagpur Tenancy Act and Santhal Pargana Tenancy Act. 
 
 Talking about opposition unity, Marandi said all parties will be approached to lend their support to the May 18 programme. 
 
 On Tuesday, the   held its first meeting with prospective land donors in Godda. Over 500 raiyats of Patwa, Gangta and Motia village of Motia panchayat took part in the meeting which was held in a primary school campus under the supervision of Godda SDO Saurabh Sinha. Representatives of Adani Group and village heads had participated in the meeting. “The officials allayed their doubts and explained the benefits of setting up the power plant here,” a company statement said.
 
