POINGUINIM: Goa’s first protected area, the  , located in South Goa’s  , with its total area of 85.65 sq km is nearing its landmark 50th year. But, issues related to its further development have been pending for some time and shifting of 48 families from within its limits has remained unresolved for decades.

 The panoramic and undulating tract of   in the extreme southeastern corner of the state was officially declared a wildlife sanctuary in 1968. Boasting of rich flora and fauna, the sanctuary has a few open grasslands and is fully covered with dense forests with crown density of over 50%, some of the trees being at a lofty height of over 35m.
 
 The scenic Canacona taluka, which draws thousands of tourists every year for its beautiful beaches provides great scope for eco-tourism due to the existence of this sanctuary with its many wildlife species. Taking cognizance of its tourism potential, former Canacona MLA and tribal welfare minister, Ramesh Tawadkar, had submitted a proposal to the forest department to the tune of Rs 6 crore.
 
 “This was for the further development of the sanctuary in respect of existing facilities such as nature trails, engaging tourist guides, employment to locals by setting up huts, watch towers and other essential components,” said the sanctuary’s range forest officer Vikramaditya Gaonkar. The other pending issue, that of relocating the 48 families from within the sanctuary, has been kept on the backburner. A fresh attempt by authorities trying to convince occupants of a better package of facilities if they move out is in progress.
 
 A meeting was held recently at the local deputy collector's office regarding pending applications of residents about their forest rights as they do not want rehabilitation, but settlement in situ. “The cases are pending for a long time,” Canacona MLA, Isidore Fernandes said, adding that he has apprised the government about the issues of the people in the forest area.
 
 The sanctuary is an important corridor for wildlife in Goa and Karnataka as Cotigao is contiguous with the Aravali National Park in Karnataka in the southeast and the Netravali   to the northeast. “The sanctuary provides an excellent opportunity for sightseeing of wild animals,” Gaonkar said.
 
 The larger herbivores the sanctuary hosts include the magnificent gaur with occasional glimpses of the Indian muntjac (barking deers), hog deers, Indian sambar, mouse deers, sloth bears and the rare black panther, besides the abundantly present larger cat leopards whose presence is made known by the distress call of the langur.
 
 A host of smaller mammals, birds as well as herpetofauna makes the sanctuary a paradise for wildlife enthusiasts. The forest department has maintained several water holes in the sanctuary which, in turn, attract a lot of wild animal species, thus providing an exhilarating experience to visitors, many of who have started visiting the sanctuary even during the monsoon season.
 
