PUNE: The process to seek admission to class XI will start on May 25, while information booklets are expected to become available online by Wednesday.
Part one of the admission form can be filled online from May 25. The soft copies of the information booklet will be uploaded to the official website by May 10, while hard copies will be distributed to schools and the admission centres after that.
 
 For the first time, principals of schools and guidance centres will play a role in the admission process.
 
 The office of the deputy director of education, Pune division, has asked principals of schools in Pune and   municipal corporations to ensure that the forms are filled in the institutes rather than individually by parents. Till last year, parents had been filling the forms on their own at home or in cyber cafes, causing a lot of confusion. It was to eliminate such chaos this year onwards that this decision was taken.
 
 “The online form-filling will start on May 25. Students from Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad can go to their respective schools to get their forms filled. Others must go to the guidance centres. Information booklets are being printed, and will soon be made available to students. Perhaps by May 10, the booklet will be available on the official admission website,“ said Meenakshi  , assistant deputy director of education.
 
 “We will soon start training the staff at guidance centres as well as schools to ensure no confusion in filling the forms. Parents and students will be counselled in the same around May 20. All these dates and the venue will be announced on the official website and through the me dia in time,“ Raut added.
 
 Apart from ensuring that the forms are filled in schools, principals have also been given the responsibility of verifying certificates pertaining to caste and other details.Apart from the Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and Mumbai municipal corporation limits, the online admission process will also be held in the corporation areas of Nagpur, Amravati, Aurangabad and  .
 
 For students from other boards or areas other than Pune district, special guidance cells will be made available in all zones. Guidance sessions have been conducted in schools. Nine zones have been earmarked within the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation limits for a centralised admission process.
 
 For all admissions to regular colleges in other quotas, such as in-house, minority , management etc, it is mandatory for students to fill forms online using the login ID and password available in the information booklet.
 
 Admissions to Home Science, Urdu, Telugu, Gujarati and Hindi medium schools and night schools, admission will be held at the college level, and not online.
 
