MANALI: The confluence of Chandra and Bhaga rivers, which give birth to the Chenab (Chandrabhaga), at Tandi village of Lahaul-Spiti district will soon witness a religious ceremony, where religious leaders of many communities will take part to spread message of religious equality and brotherhood.

 At an altitude of 9,400ft from sea level, the confluence, is a sacred place for both Hindus and Buddhists living in Lahaul-Spiti district. Many times, both Brahmins and Lamas chant mantras together in one ceremony. Taking this practice of respecting other religions to a new height, “Chandrabhaga Sangam Parv” will see the coming together of various religious leaders. The ceremony will held in summer and invitations to many such leaders are being sent in advance.
 
 “This ceremony will become an example for the world,” Chandrabhaga   Organizing Committee president Chander Mohan Parsheera said, adding that the committee was even inviting common people from other countries to attend the festival. “A renowned Islamic religious leader has accepted the invitation. We are in talk with others. This tribal valley will set an example of religious brotherhood. And we are reviving the history of a Vedic river.”
 
 Member of the National Board for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Rajesh Sharma is also contributing to the ceremony to make it an all religion one. “This festival will be only of its kind, where people of all religions will take part and perform worship,” he said.
 
 Many people of Lahaul immerse mortal remains in the Chandrabhaga and a huge religious ceremony, Tsa Tsa, was observed here in June, last year, when mortal remains of former VHP leader   were immersed here. Locals claim that the Tsa Tsa was revived after about 5,000 years and now it will continue every year to let the world know the religious importance of this river. The organising committee believes Prime Minister   will also come to witness this historic moment, besides thousands of people. 
 
 The organisers call this festival  , which will be celebrated every year. They look at it as an opportunity to promote culture tourism in Lahaul. A large number of pilgrims visit Ladakh for Sindhu Darshan festival every year. The organizers plan to make a complete circuit by drawing the pilgrims from Sindhu Darshan to Chandrabhaga Sangam.
 
 Historians say that Draupadi, wife of Pandavas, breathed her last near the Chandrabhaga confluence, and her mortal remains were immersed in this river. The committee plans to construct Sangam ghat and a huge Shiva idol at the confluence and the estimated cost of the project is Rs 33 crore.
 
