Last New Year, industrialist   skipped party destinations to scale   and live with  . She tells us why...
 
  
 
  
  Mt Fansipan (at 3,143 metres is Indo-China’s highest mountain) was very challenging. It was almost a 90-degree climb, all the way up to the summit. At various points, the rocks were slippery. It was like rock-climbing without a harness! The view, however, was spectacular. I felt like I was floating amid the clouds. The continuous beauty surrounding me was inspiring and motivating.
  
  It was a seven-hour hike. We only stopped for about 40 minutes to eat our minimal lunch (bread, eggs, chocolate soya milk). This tough route tested my patience and resilience at every step. I’ve always lived my life in a very safe and comfortable environment. The climb took me very far out of my comfort zone.
  
  
 
  
  The climb wasn’t necessarily a safe one (we were told that a foreign national recently died making this climb). Mt Fansipan wasn’t on the itinerary; I had to convince my tour organisers to arrange it last minute. They were nervous. They thought I won’t be able to manage it, that too in 5 degrees centigrade. But I always love pushing the limits of my body, mind and spirit.
  
  As I was climbing, I realised that only I am responsible for myself. At the end of the day, life will be a constant challenge, a continuous climb. I will not always be comfortable and my environment won’t always be kind to me. It was a great learning experience and a great way to begin the new year. I’m starting many projects of my own this year and the climb has definitely prepared me for the obstacles and successes that I will face.
  
  
 
  
  Yes! I always get annoyed while climbing a mountain for long periods of time. Here, we were climbing a steep slope, non-stop for four hours! At the very end, when we were only 2-3 minutes away from the peak, I sat on a rock for about 5-7 minutes to just look at the peak and the spectacular view right in front of me. Then I started climbing again.
  
  
 
  
  They were mostly un-calculated risks. Well, I knew there were going to be some risks but I didn’t really care to think about them too much. That’s what I loved most. And it made me feel stronger. Sometimes, it’s just not worth it to think about anything too much. It wasn’t like taking a business risk, where I can’t think about myself but have to first think about all the people working for me.
  
  
 
  
  It was fantastic! I loved every second of it. Living with a local ethnic group, at their home, was totally a different experience. I’ve lived with a host family for six weeks in a French village some years ago, but Vietnamese villages were completely different.
  It was communal living. Everyone ate together, shared the same toilet. Life felt so simple.
  
  
 
  
  Definitely. I think we all strive to be happy. That’s always first on everyone’s list. But our lives in large, densely-populated urban cities makes finding happiness a very difficult task. This trip made me realise that not taking the world, and yourself, too seriously is one of the major ways to find contentment. We must try our best and leave the rest to a greater power.
  
  
 
  
  The women were extremely strong – physically and mentally. We saw women over 70 carrying baskets full of stuff to be sold to tourists. They’d walk miles from one village to the next to find customers, yet they were always smiling. They were more energetic than we were! My struggles were so insignificant compared to theirs.
  
  
 
  
  Make sure you go on such vacations with only very close/best friends! You have to be yourself and wear no masks. That can only be done with friends who know your best and worst.
  
  
 
  
  This trip for me was to completely disconnect and not think at all. I wanted it to be about the journey and the destination alone. It’s important to detach and disconnect. It refreshes your mind and body. I feel refreshed and ready to take on 2017!
  
  
