CHENNAI: Cashing in on the enormous goodwill its Banaganapalle mangoes (also called   mangoes) enjoy across the nation, the   government obtained geographical indication (GI) for the fruit and became its registered proprietor. Andhra Pradesh has in recent times got GI for two other products as well -- Udayagiri wooden cutlery and Bandar laddu.

 Banaganapalle mangoes got the GI status after commissioner of horticulture of Andhra Pradesh applied to the geographical indications registry in Chennai. Now that Andhra Pradesh has become registered proprietor of this particular variety of fruit, others intending to exploit the brand must apply to become authorised users. It needs a no-objection certificate (NOC) from Andhra Pradesh government’s horticulture department.
 
 In the petition, commissioner, horticulture department, Andhra Pradesh, said the government had been engaged in cultivation of Banaganapalle mangoes for over a century. Banaganapalle, a town in   district, which was a capital of princely state of Banaganapalle from 1790 to 1948.
 
 Since it was close to Nizam of Hyderabad, and due to royal patronage, several orchards were developed to popularise mango varieties including 'Banaganapalle’ variety. 
 
 Banaganapalle mangoes, also known as Beneshan, Baneshan, Benishan, Chappatai, Safeda, Banaganapalli, Banginapalli, are popular and extensively used as table fruit across the country. The agro climatic and geographical conditions prevailing in Banaganapalle and adjoining areas given the unique characteristics, the application said.
 
 Though primarily raised Kurnool district comprising Banaganapalle, Paanyam and Nandyal mandal in Andhra Pradesh, the fruit is also raised in parts of Rayalaseema region, coastal Andhra region and Telangana.
 
 The commissioner said the department adheres to strict quality standards in its growth and post-production care like ripening, preserving and packing. The department represents the interests of the farmers and consumers of Banaganapalle mangoes in Andhra Pradesh, he said, adding that nearly 7,68,250 families of farmers and traders were engaged in the profession.
 
 An estimated 24.35 lakh metric tonnes of mangoes were grown every year in Andhra Pradesh, he said, adding that of this 5,500 tonnes were exported to countries including the US, the UK, Japan and the Gulf nations. As on 2011, the annual turnover of Banaganapalle mangoes touched Rs 1,461 crore and exported mangoes worth Rs 20.68 crore.
 
 After several rounds of discussions, perusing reports including gazettes and examination reports, the registrar of Geographical Indications Registry, O P Gupta, issued the certificate to the horticulture development agency, represented by commissioner of horticulture, Andhra Pradesh. It falls under horticultural goods category in Class-31.
 
 
