LUDHIANA: Auctions of liquor vends, which is likely to take place on March 31, may see poor response.

 According to official sources, the state   has received few applications for the   (urban) as well as rural areas, including Doraha, Khanna, Macchiwara and Samrala. 
 
 Last year, a total of 2,000 applications were received from these areas while 4,831 applications were received from entire Ludhiana range of the department (including mandis and towns) from which a revenue of Rs 18 crore was earned by the department. 
 
 The crisis has ensued due to a boycott call given by the liquor contractors, who have refused to participate in the auction in protest against the excise policy of the department. They have been demanding that the government should slash license and application fees. According to sources, overall situation in the department is also dismal and as against Rs 147.81 crore received last year as application fee, only Rs 41 crore was earned by the department this time. Monday was the last date of submitting applications both in person and online,. However, the officials are tight lipped over the number of applications received by them and till the filing of this report no data was share by the department in this regard. 
 
  excise and taxation commissioner Vivek Partap Singh was not available for comments but Ludhiana deputy excise and taxation commissioner JK Jain said, “I am in Chandigarh for a meeting and I am unaware about how many applications have been received. Only the headquarters has the data.” 
 
 Meanwhile, liquor contractors have succeeded in creating pressure on the government and the excise and taxation department by calling for boycott of the auction. Speaking to TOI, liquor contractor Lally Sharma said, “The number of liquor vends in the state has been reduced due to the new rule that bans vends along the highways. Also, the cost of doing liquor business has increased manifold and last year liquor contractors in Ludhiana (urban) alone incurred a loss of Rs 100 crore. Considering these facts, we are demanding that the license fees of vends should be reduced by 30-35% and application fees for auction be brought down to Rs 50,000.”
 
 The department is in talks with liquor contractors and is trying to resolve the deadlock by convincing them to participate in the auction. Keeping this in view, it has been decided that they will be given 2 more days to participate in the auction and it will now be held on March 31 at  .
 
 Confirming this to TOI, assistant excise and taxation commissioner of range-1, Ludhiana, Rajpal Singh Khaira said , “The auction will be held at 10am on March 31 at Bachat Bhawan located in the secretariat.” He, however, refused to say why the auction has been postponed.
 
 
