CHANDIGARH: Even as police deployed 1,000 personnel to keep law and order under control during the SYL march on Thursday, the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) claimed on Tuesday that more than one lakh people from across Haryana would be reaching Ambala for the march to Punjab to voluntarily dig the Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal.

 The party said the march would enter Kapoori village of Patiala district through Shambhu barrier, which falls on a non-operational road on the border between Ambala in Haryana and Patiala in Punjab. INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala said at a press conference that people in Haryana were ready to sacrifice their lives for the water, and the BJP and the Congress would be responsible for any hostility.
 
 His statement came even as Ambala district police deployed around 1,000   to ensure peace during the march. Sources in the police confirmed that the senior leaders of INLD could be detained as a preventive measure.
 
 INLD president Ashok Arora told TOI that everyone taking part in the march would gather at New Vegetable Market, Ambala, at around 11.30am, where senior leaders would address them. “Then everyone would move for Kapoori village via Sambhu barrier, near Amabala, on tractor-trolleys, which have been specially arranged. Also, workers from across the state, all party MLAs and ex-MLAs would be attending Thursday’s congregation,” Arora said. Both party MPs in Lok Sabha, Dushyant Chautala and Charanjeet Singh Rori, would be attending the event.
 
 On claims that the INLD-organized march was nothing more than a photo opportunity for the party, Chautala said he would welcome leaders of all other parties to join him.
 
 Chautala clarified that workers had been directed to ensure a peaceful march. He also visited Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Ambala and Yamunanagar districts on Tuesday to invite for the event.
 
 Ambala superintendent of police (SP) Abhishek Jorwal said elaborate security arrangements had been made to maintain law and order in the city. “We will deploy around nine companies. We are closely monitoring every to ensure the people do not face any inconvenience,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 In a joint statement, Haryana ministers Nayab Singh Saini and Krishan Kumar accused the INLD of vitiating the state’s atmosphere by inciting people to cross over to Punjab and dig the Staluj-Yamuna Link canal. “Former chief minister Om Prakash Chautala, who is out on parole for now, is going around the state and inciting the people to undertake digging in the name of strengthening social ties,” they said. “All facts in the matter are in favour of Haryana. Supreme Court has directed Punjab to release the water. But, the INLD is hindering the entire process,” they said.
 
 
