MUMBAI: The  's 20-year-old pre-poll tie-up with the   has ended. The Sena will contest the February 21 Mumbai   on its own, party president   declared at a party conclave in the city on Republic Day, signalling the start of what may be a bitterly-fought poll campaign reminiscent of the diatribe-filled 2014 state assembly poll drive when the   had drifted apart.

 Mentioning the mass protests over jallikattu in Tamil Nadu, the Sena president said “the upcoming polls are a sporting event and the bull (BJP) needs to be tamed once and for all“. He also called the BJP a “goonda“ party .
 
 The Sena has ruled the Br ihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which has a budget of Rs 37,000 crore, since 1997 in alliance with the BJP which has played junior partner.
 
 Uddhav said the Sena will also contest polls to nine other civic bodies, including Thane, Pune and Nashik, and 25 zilla parishads on its own steam, triggering speculation on whether the break-up would have implications for the BJP-led state government, headed by Devendra Fadnavis. Uddhav did not comment on a possible post-poll tie-up. The Shiv Sena has unilaterally called off its alliance with the BJP for the BMC polls. The Sena-BJP's seat-sharing negotiations were marked by uncertainty throughout, with the BJP insisting on “transparency“ in the workings of the civic body . Fadnavis pressed this “demand“ more than once in the run-up to the talks.
 
 After Uddhav's announcement, Fadnavis reiterated, “Transparency is our top priority, and with or without anyone we will achieve the goal.“
 
 Scams, primarily those related to road and other works carried out by the BMC, have come to light in the last few years.
 
 In a reply to Uddhav's comments, Fadnavis also tweeted, “Power aint our ultimate goal but a medium of development.We will take along those who come with us and leave aside who don't. Transformation is inevitable!“ Uddhav's move to walk out of the alliance marks a watershed in his--and Sena's--chequered political career, said observers. His speech, laced with acerbic criticism of BJP , clearly reflected his combative mood ahead of the first Mumbai civic election for the Sena after Balasaheb's death in 2012.
 
 Sena seniors cited several reasons for the aggressive stance. Firstly , the Sena's diminishing political credibility as partner in the BJP-led state government. “ Although we parted ways with BJP in the 2014 assembly elections, we chose to join the Fadnavis government to ensure political stability and administrative continuity in Maharashtra. However, the BJP never reciprocated the Sena's sentiments. Our ministers were offered inconsequential portfolios, and we were never taken into confidence on major policy matters.For instance, none of the Sena ministers were told in advance about the government circular on removing photographs of deities from public offices.This is a draconian circular,“ said a Sena minister.
 
 Secondly, by slamming the door on the BJP, Uddhav has made it clear to the CM that he can no longer take the Sena for granted. Sena strategists were quick to point out that Thackeray's ire showed instant results. The state on Friday pulled back the controversial circular in a bid to pacify Matoshree, they said.
 
 Thirdly, by flexing his political muscle, Thackeray has so ught to refurbish his own image within the Sena. “You need to take the entire political scenario into account. Thackeray was reluctant to let his party join the Fadnavis regime in 2014.But, he was reportedly told, both by his advisers and the BJP, that there would be a vertical split in the Sena if it didn't join the Fadnavis government.He had no other choice but to yield to pressure from Sena seniors,“ said a Mantralaya bureaucrat.
 
 However, with the BJP de manding 114 of the total 227 BMC seats from the Sena during the recent seat-sharing talks, Matoshree realised that the Thackeray clan's political credibility--and retaining the Mumbai corporation--mattered more in the longer run than clinging to office in the Fadnavis government, the bureaucrat added. Whether the Sena quits the state government depends largely on the BMC poll results, he said.
 
 Uddhav's priority as of now is to impress upon his ministers, and reassure his followers as well, that he alone wields Balasaheb's authority and that, like the late patriarch, he too doesn't care for power.
 
 Matoshree hopes Uddhav's unilateral announcement will enhance Shiv Sainiks' morale and help gear up the party's poll machinery .
 
 `Uddhav had told CM a fortnight ago that Sena may go solo'
 
 BJP leader Vinod Tawde admitted on Friday that chief minister Devendra Fadnavis was keen on an alliance for BMC polls with Shiv Sena, but he said it was an “unreasonable“ offer in terms of seats which BJP was left with no choice but to reject. The BJP may have settled for a deal which gave them at least 90 seats to contest.
 
 “Now that Shiv Sena has snapped its ties, we are preparing to contest all the 227 seats. We are sure, we will not only improve our performance, but emerge as a single largest party,'' said Tawde, who had led the negotiations with Sena leaders. BJP was evidently keen on a tie-up with Sena not only for BMC, but for all municipal corporations and zilla parishad polls across the state.
 
 “For BMC, we proposed to contest 110 against 117 by Sena. We were expecting that an understanding would be reached on 90 and 137. We were stunned when Sena offered 60 seats,'' said a source in the BJP.
 
 He said emissaries sought to explain to Sena leaders that the political situation had changed after the 2014 Lok Sabha and assembly polls and that the BJP was justified in staking claim to more seats. “Sena must admit that our strength in Mumbai has increased manifold. Now we have 15 legislators in the city,“ he said.
 
 He leader said while Sena made the announcement that it was calling off talks for a BMC poll alliance on January 26, none other than Uddhav Thackeray had given indications to the CM on the possibility of such an outcome when he spoke to him a fortnight ago. “Uddhav made it clear to the CM, he said let BJP rule India and Maharashtra, but leave Mumbai for Shiv Sena. We were not surprised by the decision,'' he said.
 
