"Friday 
 film release 
  
  Saturday morning 
  DVD 
 ,” boasts a street vendor from Aundh, Pune. Much to our surprise, there are DVDs of all the latest Hindi movies, including ' ', ' ' and 'Badrinath Ki Dulhania' at this makeshift stall. That’s not all; one can also find the latest English movies like 'Silence', ' ', 'La La Land' and 'Logan' in stock here. 

 Interestingly, the vendor also says that he gets repeat clients every week. According to a report by a reputed auditing and consultancy firm, the Indian film industry loses approximately Rs 190 billion to piracy. Despite repeated attempts from the film industry to curb this menace, pirated DVDs are sold in the open — outside bookstores, near bus/ train stations and even outside cinema halls — and illegally recorded versions uploaded online.
  
  
 
 
 
 Informing us about the “secondary role” of the police department, DCP (Crime) PR Patil says, “Our role is to provide all the help to the production houses but, 
 after they do the research and lodge a complaint. We are not authorised to act unless that’s done.” Filmmaker Ravi Jadhav feels that till the law takes this crime seriously, the 
 situation won’t be better. “The authorities say it’s not their prime concern. We have strong copyright laws and piracy is a punishable offence, but there is a lack of implementation,” says Ravi.
 
 
 
 Actor/filmmaker Mahesh Manjrekar also says that the DVD market is dying and piracy has shifted online now. His thoughts are seconded by Gulfaraz Makani, director of an anti-piracy establishment. He says, “We used to work on anti-film piracy work till a few years ago but have stopped now. The online piracy racket has made it difficult to track perpetrators. If you want to pull down a website that hosts pirated content, there is a process that needs to be followed. By the time that comes through, the content shifts to another website and is still available. There is no dearth of online pirates in the world.”
 
  
  
 
 
 While various reports put losses incurred by filmmakers in billions, director Avinash Das, of Anarkali of Arrah, feels that the numbers are changing gradually. “Filmmakers spend so much money on making the film and fighting piracy too. However, I don’t think the BO returns are affected these days. Take hits like Bajrangi Bhaijan and Bahubali or even Manjhi- The Mountain Man, whose pirated versions were leaked online or through DVDs. The films still went on to rake in the moolah. Somewhere, I feel that well-informed people refrain from watching pirated films; be it due to their conscience or because of the bad quality,” says he.
 
  
  
 
 
 In the past, the film industry has come together to speak against piracy and certain initiatives were also launched to ensure the business is not affected. But, according to director Mahesh Manjrekar, until and unless the film business is looked at seriously, there won’t be a change in the situation. “Curbing piracy is not difficult at all if authorities are willing to do it. The film industry can raise concerns but taking action lies in the hands of the law. Films can rake in a lot of revenue for the government through entertainment taxes. However, it is not considered to be a serious business despite having the power to change the world,” says the filmmaker.
 
  
  
 
