SURAT: “One terrorist came dangerously close to the bus door. But someone closed the door from inside. Had he entered, none of us would have been alive,“ recounted Natu Patel from Bilimora town of Navsari, as his wife Sushila trembled by his side recalling the horror at the  .

 The couple was among the fortuante survivors onboard the bus of Om Sai Travels carrying 61 people on   that was attacked by terrorists near Anantnagar on Monday . Family members hugged them tight and cried inconsolably, thanking God for being alive.
 
 There were tears all around; those who lost their family members wailed while kin of the lucky ones cried out of relief on seeing them alight from the plane. “It was a horrifying scene. The driver's head was pushed down by a man sitting next to him and the bullet hit a woman passenger in head sitting right behind him. I saw five men dressed in army uniforms on motorcycles around the bus. We all sat under seat to save our lives“ said Sushila, a retired bank employee, trying to control her tears.
 
 Rajnikant Patel and his wife Sumitra from Pardi town of Valsad, said, “It was raining bullets from all sides. Passengers were screaming for help and we had no idea if we will get any. Bullets were hitting the bus and some occupants in the dark.“
 
 Yashwant Dungre, a 52-year-old hardware businessman from Dahanu in Maharashtra, suffered two bullet injuries below his waist. “There were five to six people in police uniform waiting for us. Suddenly , two of them came in front of our vehicle and started firing indiscriminately . Those who got up from their seats were hit by the bullets. I was hit on both side as I turned on to see what was happening.“
 
 Dungre and his wife Yogita were sitting in the third row from behind. “I pushed my wife down but still she was hit with bullet in the leg. After the driver drove us to safety , some of us got down and begged for help from the locals. But people just kept looking at us. I then fell unconsciouss and got up at 4am in the Army Hospital.“
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Ramesh Patel, 57, another pilgrim from Vadoli adjoining Daman, too suffered a bullet wound on his leg. “We realized that it was a terrorist attack only when driver Salim shouted that he would drive at full speed. Somebody asked all of us to kneel down. The bullets were coming from all the directions and many were hit below the waist. The attackers were wearing army uniform. We were sitting on the rear side of the bus and my wife escaped the bullet as I pushed her down. The firing went on for three to five minutes. Luckily , none of the terrorists could enter the bus, or else we all would have died.“
 
 
 
 
 
 The state police was given 'Stand to' orders from Tuesday morning as the additional forces were deployed in the areas having history of disturbance.After meeting of senior state police officials, the State Reserve Police (SRP) companies were deployed in different parts of the state. Ahmedabad city also saw check points at key locations. “All steps have been taken to prevent any untoward incident. Apart from Police Control Room (PCR) vans, Quick Response Teams (QRTs) were also deployed in patrolling with armed police. We have asked the citizens to refrain from any rumours,“ said a senior Ahmedabad police official.
 
