UDUPI: Vijaynath Shenoy, a retired banker, heritage conservationist, antiques collector and creator of   in Manipal passed away at his residence on Thursday morning. He was 83. The final rites will be on Friday morning at 10am in Manipal, said family sources.

 A former banker, Shenoy was deeply moved by the indifference to maintain and preserve heritage structures of South Kanara. He decided to preserve old houses and collected whatever treasures came his way, from every nook and cranny across the state. His mounting collection resulted in the creation of Hasta Shilpa in Manipal. The house had every little artefact he had collected over the years, from an arecanut cracker to abandoned pillars from old houses in Bhatkal. Shenoy spent from his pocket as he scoured the districts to prevent pieces of history vanishing. His wife  , also employed with a bank, pitched in with her savings to fund her husband’s passion.
 
 As his collection mounted, ‘Hasta Shilpa’ was built in 1984 from the relics of demolished and abandoned old houses of the region. It was also Shenoy‘s personal home. But as word spread and visitors kept streaming in, it became difficult for the family to lead a normal life in Hasta Shilpa. One could walk into Hasta Shilpa at 8pm, and Shenoy would enthusiastically take you around his huse. He was ever the gracious host and kept his visitors enthralled with his nuggets. 
 
 Every little item in Hasta Shilpa had a story to tell. And Shenoy, was a storehouse of information. Soon the family moved out of the heritage house, and it became a museum. 
 
 Later he founded the  , and created the famous   in Manipal on a seven-acre plot with 26 immaculately restored centuries-old houses and museums devoted to crafts, Tanjore paintings, objects from the south Indian mercantile trade, and Raja Ravi Varma’s lithographs. It opened to the public on May 9, last year.
 
 “I love houses in which six or seven generations once lived and breathed, designed not by architects but by people themselves—in line with their needs, social requirements, and the climate,” he once said.
 
 His bigger project, Heritage Village was built with public funding, including aid from Finnish and Norwegian embassies. Among elegant old structures to be found there are a 400-year-old Bunt Guthu House, the 500-year-old Kamal Mahal (which once belonged to a vassal king of the Vijayanagar empire), monasteries that once housed followers of Advaita and Veerashaiva faiths and a century-old trading house-cum-residence.
 
 All these structures were saved from imminent destruction and transplanted to their present site brick by brick, and the entire process too has been documented.
 
 Shenoy is also credited with the restoration and renovation of the four-century-old mud palace in Sural village in Udupi. He was involved in the initial restoration and renovation of the ancestral house of poet-laureate Kuvempu at Kuppali in Thirthahalli taluk.
 
