THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Close to 96% of the students, who appeared for SSLC   for the year, have successfully cleared the exam and are eligible for higher studies. The results were announced by education minister C   here on Friday. 

 A total of 4,55,453 students had appeared for the examination, held in March, this year. Of this, 4,37,156 i.e. 95.98% of the candidates have become eligible for higher studies. Ever since the introduction of Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE), the number of students who successfully complete the Class X has gone up. Last year, the pass percentage was 96.59%.
 
 Announcing the results in the presence of general education secretary   and director of public instructions (DPI) K V Mohankumar, education minister   told media that the government was committed to improve the quality of school education.
 
 "As part of introducing a host of measures aimed at quality improvement, the education department, on a pilot basis, would try the online distribution of question papers for Class X and higher secondary classes. The try out would be held either for during the Onam or Christmas examinations in the coming academic year," the minister said.
 
 The minister said the government has decided to prepare question banks for all school subjects and all the examinations from Class I to X would be conducted using the question papers prepared by the education department. The practice of involving private agencies for preparation of question banks and question papers had backfired this year, when questions prepared by a private agency was repeated in the Mathematics exam. 
 
 Following the leak of questions, a re-exam was conducted.
 
 Special and technical school results were also announced along with the SSLC examination. Pass percentage of hearing impaired students is 98.98 %, Technical SSLC is 98.83 % and Technical SSLC (hearing impaired) is 75%. In   Kalamandalam Art Higher Secondary School, the pass percentage is 83.75%.
 
  Admission to higher secondary streams to begin from May 8 
 
 Final allotment for admission to higher secondary courses is expected to be completed by June 5 and classes are supposed to commence on June 15.
 
 Education minister C Raveendranath told reporters here on Friday that as per the tentative schedule fixed by the education department, candidates can start applying online for admission to various higher secondary streams on May 8. Trial allotment would be on May 29 and the final allotment by June 5. "As per the current fixture, classes for first year higher secondary would begin on June 15," said Raveendranath. 
 
  Applications for scrutiny and revaluation of SSLC answer papers can be submitted online from May 8 to 12. The results would be announced on the Pareekshabhavan website before May 31. Similarly, the Save a year ( SAY) examination, a second chance for candidates who have failed to achieve the minimum grade would be held at select centres from May 22 to 26. 
 
 Results of SAY examination would be published in the first week of June.
 
