PUNE: In the previous elections, differently-abled   had a harrowing time. He was not able to take his wheelchair up the ramp without support railings. 

 “While I could vote, there were many others who had to return without voting,” said Khan, who has taken up this issue through his organization, Prahar.
 
 Khan is not the only one to have faced this issue. Despite repeated complaints and suggestions, the election officials did little to improve the facilities for the differently-abled citizens at the polling stations. As a result, many differently-abled citizens had to be carried physically to vote. In several cases, voters lost heart, and returned without casting their vote. 
 
 However, things might be different this time. The election commission has instructed all the election officials to focus on persons with disabilities, and ensure that they are provided all facilities so they don’t return from the booth before casting their vote. 
 
 “The guidelines from the   are to focus on persons with disabilities (PwDs) to ensure an increase in the percentage of voting,” said an election official, who added, “The EC has issued guidelines to all booth-level officers to maintain a database of PwDs in each polling station, and also instructed them to ensure they will get assured minimum facilities at such stations.”
 
 As per the 2011 census, the total population of PwDs in Maharashtra is 12.48 lakh. Of those, 8.82 lakh are male and 3.65 lakh are female. As per the Election Commission of India’s electoral rolls published in January this year, the total voting population of Maharashtra is 8.16 crore, of whom 4.29 crore are male, 3.86 crore are female and 1,271 belong to the ‘Others’ (transgender) category, said an election department official.
 
 However, in spite of all this, officials have said that there is no category-wise list of voters who are PwDs. “This needs to be worked out by the election officials concerned so that necessary care is taken ahead of elections,” said the official from the state election commission. Meanwhile, Rafiq Khan said Prahar will be writing to the district election officials to ensure that ramps with railings are put up, and disabled voters are allowed to vote on the first floor itself.
 
 As per the ECI guidelines, the block-level officers are expected to display elaborate instructions for persons with disabilities outside the polling station. Voter guides, voter slips and Voter Identity Cards (EPIC) for visually-impaired voters should be prepared in Braille where possible. While the machines have been designed to be accessible to visually-impaired people, the differently-abled activists are urging officials to organize a training session for the visually-impaired, as it is a four-panel system this time around. 
 
 “There is no provision to reach out to our sector at all,” said an activist from Prahar. “They just have ramps and they are not bothered whether the name of the (differently-abled) voter is on the first floor. There were many who had to be carried up and down in the last elections,” the activist added.
 
 In reaction to the election commission guidelines, Khan said the government is not aware of the problems PwDs face. “We have to tell the government about the kind of facilities we want. The Sugamya Bharat Abhiyan is one such initiative of the government that allows PwDs a hindrance-free travel. The same should be extended to elections,” he said.
 
 At  , he said, the election department should depute officials who are specially trained in sign language to guide PwD voters with a hearing impairment, or guide the visually-impaired or the differently-abled. This would ensure officials, who are already burdened on election day, are not further hassled. 
 
