ROHTAK: In a suspected case of  , a 22-year-old youth was found dead near the railway line of   in   late on Saturday. The victim, identified as  , of Aman Nagar on Mirzapur road had married  , a high caste girl of Shiv Nagar. 

 Police sources said that the victim might have been strangulated to death as his neck bore injury marks. Against Poonam’s parents’ wishes, the duo had married at Hisar’s Sanatam Dharam Charitable Trust in October 2015. 
 
 The deceased’s family members told media that Rajesh had gone out for some work on February 2 but did not return home. On Friday, the parents lodged a missing complaint at the Mill Gate police station, Hisar. The body was found near the rail tracks at Mirzapur-Dhansu village. 
 
 Sanatan Dharm Charitable Trust president Sanjay Chauhan told mediapersons that Rajesh and Poonam had married on October 28, 2015, at the temple. He alleged that the couple had been receiving threats for marrying against society norms. The couple were later sent to a safe house under police security.
 
 Deceased’s brother Rakesh Kumar said that his brother was allegedly killed by the girl’s family. Quoting an incident, he said that a person, Subhash Bishnoi, who introduced him as a relative of Poonam, had visited their house and threatened his father and demanded that the girl be send back to her home or face consequences. 
 
 Kumar added that the family of the girl had threatened him also and he had lodged a complaint at Hisar police station. “When Poonam gave birth to a baby boy, cousins of the girl had created a ruckus at their home during celebrations,” he claimed. The family also received a threat letter on February 4, he further said. 
 
 The family had submitted a complaint at the police station, seeking action against Subhash Bishnoi and other family members under the SC/ST Act besides murder case and demanded security for the family members. 
 
 Meanwhile, DSP Bhagwan Dass in a press conference said that they had rounded up three persons who were connected with the family of Poonam on the basis of suspicion. He said that they were not ruling out honour killing in this case. 
 
 
