Intimidating phrases like ‘thok doonga’ or ‘maar doonga’ may be common in our daily life but they led an   to be grounded recently. He threatened a ground engineer with ‘plane chadha doonga’ unless he cleared the aircraft for take off soon! This unprecedented exchange took place late last year in Mumbai when the captain was in the cockpit and waiting for ground engineers to complete their pre-flight checks so that the Airbus A-320 could begin taxiing and take off for Bengaluru.

 “The captain was in a hurry to take off for some reason and said those words to the ground engineer. The engineers immediately completed their checks and removed chocks–wooden blocks kept in front and rear of tyres,” said a source.
 
 As soon as the plane took off, the engineers lodged a formal complaint about the pilot’s behaviour with their own and AI’s flight safety department (FSD). The moment the plane landed in Bengaluru, the FSD ordered that the content of the cockpit voice recorder be downloaded. “This exchange took place a few months back. We went through the recording and took a very serious note of that threat, irrespective of whether it was made in jest or anger. The pilot was taken off flying duties for about a month. During that time he was made to undergo counselling that included anger management,” said a senior AI official.
 
 “We went through the pilot’s record. He was found to be neither a habitual offender nor someone who had similar complaints in the past. He may have even said it in jest but we took a serious note of that. After the counselling was over and due to his past record, he is back flying,” said the official.
 
 However, following this episode the FSD has told AI crew members not to come under stress as they are under tremendous pressure to improve the airline’s poor on-time performance (OTP) record. AI domestic flights are among the least punctual ones, according to the data given out by Directorate General of Civil Aviation every month. The aviation ministry seeks a daily report from AI and the airline has to explain every delayed departure. “A delay in one sector means consequential delays for other sectors they will be operating the aircraft on, that day,” said a senior official.
 
 Explaining how pilot-ground engineer tussle may happen, a senior commander said: “Once boarding is complete and aircraft door closed, pilots take startup clearance from ATC. When this is given, they tell the engineers that they are ready for push back. The engineer tells his men to remove the chocks and connect the push back tractor to the nose wheel, after which the plane is pushed back. Once push back is complete, at a designated place aircraft engines are started so that jet blast does not damage men or property.”
 
 
