BENGALURU: Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation’s ambitious project to procure 150   is hanging fire, with the Centre yet to respond to Karnataka’s request for financial aid. The paucity of funds has pushed   to explore other options — it is toying with the idea of getting the battery-driven buses on rent. 

 “The electric bus project was conceived keeping the Union government’s assistance in mind. While the proposal is still under the Centre’s consideration, we are looking at other options, which include procuring the buses on a rental basis,” said BMTC managing director Ekroop Caur.
 
 Hoping to benefit from the funds provided under the Centre’s Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (hybrid) Electric Buses (FAME) scheme, last October BMTC decided to purchase 150 electric buses to be run on a pilot basis. The BMTC board of directors gave in-principle approval to the proposal, which was sent to the Centre. The latter was to provide funds to the tune of Rs 300 crore. 
 
 “It’s been over two months since the proposal was sent to New Delhi. BMTC has promptly followed it up with a series of reminders,” said officials from the corporation. FAME, launched by the Union heavy industries ministry in 2015, offers incentives for electric vehicles. 
 
 BMTC’s move to introduce battery-driven buses is aimed at saving fuel and protecting the environment. The corporation had launched an electric bus in February 2014 on a trial basis. Although BMTC was satisfied with the vehicle’s performance, the price was a stumbling block. After several rounds of negotiations, a China-based company offered a bus for Rs 2.7 crore. But the high cost forced BMTC to shelve its plans. “We can’t bear the cost on our own. We have to bank on central assistance or consider other alternatives,” said Caur.
 
 Go local, say experts 
 
 Experts, however, say the project would be feasible if BMTC procures buses from local manufacturers. “Instead of being particular about getting the buses imported, it would be wise to buy locally manufactured buses. Many Indian manufacturers, including Tata and Ashok Leyland, have started manufacturing electric buses. The cost is much lesser,” said Prof M N Srihari.
 
