LUCKNOW: The   has expressed concern over the   in implementation of the   in  . 

 A senior official in PMO told TOI they will take up the matter with the UP government soon. Centre had launched the Urja Mitra (friends of energy) progamme in 2015 across the country by launching a mobile app through which power consumers can receive advance notification for power outages. The purpose of launching the scheme was to alert consumers to plan schedule accordingly. 
 
 At present, 43 distribution companies out of 55 in the country of 24 states of India have joined this initiative with over 4. 5 crore consumers on board already. 
 
 “The scheme was praised by Prime Minister   but unfortunately, UP government has shown no interest in its implementation unlike rest of the country where more than nine crore consumers are registered,” lamented Ritu Maheshwari, executive director in REC in the energy department of the government of India. S
 
 he was talking to the ToI, which has a report with it on the state’s indifference to the scheme. The ministry of power has facilitated states like Gujarat, Uttarakhand, Assam and Orissa, while UP and Jharkhand besides some N-E states were condemned for not using the scheme which received the Golden Peacock award during the World congress on business and innovation and Ritu Maheshwari was credited for her idea in favour of power consumers mainly in the rural areas. 
 
 It was Maheshwari’s innovation as managing director of KESCO (Kanpur) in 2011 and trial run was planned but by the time it could be implemented she went on deputation to Centre and her idea was accepted immediately. 
 
 UP has largest number of power consumers and is also one of the most power deficient states. In Maheshwari’s words, her repeated reminders to the previous regimes failed to bring result in nearly one year and the new government has yet to respond while other states are lapping up this programme which is consumer-friendly. 
 
 Explaining the scheme, a senior officer in the energy department in Lucknow lamented that even he was not able to understand why the consumer-friendly scheme provided without any cess or fee is not being implemented in UP whether it was the SP government of the past or the new BJP government. 
 
 He said a reminder was given at a programme at the chief minister’s official residence in Lucknow when an MOU was signed in the presence of Adiya Nath Yogi by a delegation of the energy ministry of the government of India in March, but so far there is no response.
 
 
