JAIPUR/JAISALMER:   on Thursday arrested suspected Pakistani spy   for allegedly sharing   about deployment of   to his Pakistani handlers. Sleuths of state intelligence and security agencies told TOI that Khan also clicked photographs of strategic locations in west Rajasthan and was caught while trying to flee from India. Khan has been accused of espionage which undermined national security.

 Sources said Khan was detained last week from Bhagat Ki Kothi railway station in Jodhpur and was placed under arrest on Thursday. “We have found important documents form his possession which is being examined. State intelligence agencies have been keeping him under surveillance for past three months,” an official told TOI on the condition of anonymity. 
 
 “He was involved in anti-national activities and passed on important information. Three ISI agents were in constant touch with him. He also received cash from ISI for espionage,” the official said, adding that Khan visited Pakistan three times.
 
 Senior officials of Rajasthan police said Khan was sharing information to ISI via Skype, WhatsApp and other online platforms. Sleuths added that Khan had recruited other people in his espionage network and security agencies are likely to make more arrest in the region. 
 
  “We have been making efforts to strengthen our state security apparatus by focusing on human intelligence and surveillance. This was a major breakthrough and our investigation is going on in right direction,” DIG (security) R Suhasa told TOI.
 
 Large numbers of cellphones and SIM cards were recovered during a search at his home. Police said they have got proof of Khan visiting Pakistan on three occasions. Intelligence agencies have also identified and cross checked ISI handlers who received information from Khan. 
 
 Khan was under the scanner of intelligence agencies and senior police officials including ADGP U R Sahoo and DIG R Suhasa began zeroing in on him. “We have nabbed several ISI operatives in the area few months back and it’s a major breakthrough this time. Khan’s interrogation is likely to throw up other names too,” added a senior official.
 
 It is to be mentioned that more than 18 Pakistani spies have been caught in four border district of Rajasthan in last two years. ISI has more focus on Jaisalmer and it has prepared a list of large number of sleeper cells and spies who provide important information to ISI.
 
 
