BENGALURU : All 845 government quota seats from 11 linguistic minority colleges which were missing from the   on Thursday were displayed on the   (KEA) website on Friday. This has come as a huge relief to medical aspirants and their parents.

 Now, students can apply for seats under government merit quota at a fairly low fee of Rs 77,000 per annum. The fee of a management quota (private) seat is Rs 6-10 lakh.
 
 Siraj K (name changed), a techie and father of a medical aspirant, said: “After spending a sleepless night thinking we have lost 845 seats under the government merit quota, we were relieved to see them restored on the KEA website. It is next to impossible for many of us to afford private seat fee.” The incomplete list on the portal on Thursday had made students jittery. 
 
 
 We were waiting for the linguistic minority colleges to sign a consensual agreement, which is required before updating their names in the medical seat matrix on the KEA website. In no way, could medical aspirants have lost 845 seats. It’s just that the procedure got a tad delayed, which led to confusion
 
 S Sachidananda, director, medical education department
 
 
 
 
 
 Dental aspirants and their parents on Friday expressure unhappiness over the non-availability of government quota seats in deemed universities. Their argument — when there are government quota medical seats in these universities, why not dental?
 
 Roshni M (name changed), a dentist and mother of a candidate, said: “If the medical education department has provided a certain number of medical seats in deemed universities under the merit quota, why couldn’t they do so for dental seats as well? Students are not at fault for choosing the dental course.”
 
 Admissions to all dental seats under deemed universities in the state have been brought under the all-India quota through the Centre’s directorate general of health services (DGHS). The move has deprived Karnataka students of seats under government merit quota, the parents claimed.
 
 AB Shetty Institute of Dental Sciences, Yenapoya Dental College, College of Dental Surgery, Manipal; College of Dental Surgery, Mangaluru; Siddhartha Institute of Dental Science, Tumkuru; JSS Dental College, Mysuru and KLEVK Institute of Dental Sciences, Belagavi fall under deemed universities. 
 
 What is the reason for such discrimination between medical and dental students,” asked Suman K (name changed), another dentist and father of an aspirant.
 
 
 
 
 S Sachidananda, director, medical education department, said: “In case of medical seats, we have made an arrangement and managed to get 25% of the unused/extra seats from each college under deemed universities and use them under the government merit quota. However, when it comes to dental seats in deemed universities, the entire procedure is being handled by the Centre and we have no role to play in it.”
 
