NAVI MUMBAI: In a bid to provide better facilities, the civic body has started an e-hospital service at   NMMC  , where doctors’ appointments and blood bank bookings can be made online. 

 But the administration continues to face problems, as residents have been complaining about errant staff and lack of basic facilities. Locals, who have availed treatment from the 300-bed hospital, complain about the lack of basic amenities and empathy from staff. 
 
 “Going hi-tech is good but the administration also needs to provide basic amenities like having specialists and functioning machinery,” said a Turbhe resident,  .
 
 Complaints range from lack of basic amenities such as soap to wash hands to having to pay hefty sums for availing ambulance services during an emergency.
 
 The sanitation and cleaning work at the ground plus five structure has been outsourced but visitors are not happy with the quality. 
 
 “Soap should be made available in every washroom but none have it,” said Vibha Negi, a visitor. 
 
 A quick glance at the toilets showed that there was no facility for disposing sanitary napkins. Rodents were also found in the facilities.
 
 The residents also complained about being forced to pay hefty sums for getting their work done. “In the event of a death, the hospital is supposed to provide ambulance by taking advance of Rs 300 but families are forced to avail private services for which rates depend on the distance and relatives’ bargaining skills,” Pandey added. 
 
 The staff doesn’t even help the relatives to move the patients, their kin added.
 
 Hospital superintendent Dr P Jawade said that they are taking all measures to ensure sound administration. 
 
 “Soaps are kept in the washrooms but they are stolen regularly. The hospital has over 600 staff, each providing all possible assistance to the 1,500-odd patients availing treatment on a daily basis,” said Jawade.
 
 He added that if anyone faces being overcharged for the ambulance services they should register a complaint at the office and they will investigate the matter. —Sameera Kapoor Munshi
 
 
