GURUGRAM:   on   removed an   at Badshapur Chowk that was coming in the way of completing the final leg of the long-delayed Southern Peripheral Road ( ). 

 Once the SPR — planned as an intra-city   connecting Gurgaon-Faridabad road near Ghata with   — is completed, it is expected to reduce traffic pressure on Iffco Chowk, improve connectivity of new sectors and breathe life into around 50 real estate projects being developed along the road.
 
 At present, all traffic from Faridabad comes to MG Road before heading towards Iffco Chowk, creating a bottleneck. Once the SPR is complete, it will connect Faridabad to NH-8 via Sohna-Gurgaon road. Besides, it will resolve the connectivity problems of new sectors 58-80 and connect Golf Course Road with NH-8, reducing the traffic load on the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway (NH-8). 
 
 Construction of almost the entire SPR was completed by March, with only a small stretch left incomplete due to the delay in shifting the statue. The statue was expected to be relocated to an adjacent plot in April itself, but got delayed due to various reasons. The move was crucial for the completion of SPR, as it was coming in the alignment of the road at the point where Sohna road crosses SPR near Badshapur Chowk, as well as the 5km-long elevated highway on Sohna road (also known as Gurgaon-Alwar highway), which stretches between Subhash Chowk and Badshapur village.
 
 “With the statue shifted, work on only a small stretch of the road remains. This important infrastructure project will now be completed in no time,” said Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav. Once completed, the authorities will seek time from chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to come down to   and inaugurate the SPR.
 
 The development has come as a relief for developers. “The removal of this last hurdle will ensure the completion of Southern Peripheral Road is expedited.   in sectors 69-79 will get an huge boost as a result. SPR will connect these sectors with Golf Course Road, Faridabad and South Delhi, reducing travel time for office-goers as well. 
 
 Residential and commercial projects along the SPR are now slated for an enhanced pace of development,” said Pankaj Bansal, director, M3M Group.
 
 Ravish Kapoor, director, Elan Group, said the opening of SPR will fill a crucial connectivity gap for the new sectors. “Commuters will get relief from traffic jams on Sohna road and MG Road, as now they will be able to reach NH-8 directly from Faridabad and Golf Course Road,” he said. 
 
 Once the road is completed, vehicles coming from Faridabad and Golf Course Road will be able to reach NH-8 near Kherki Daula, bypassing the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway (NH-8) and MG Road. This is also expected to reduce travel time by around 25-30 minutes for people going from Faridabad and Golf Course Road to Manesar.
 
 
