NAGPUR: Speakers hailing from different professional backgrounds agreed upon the importance of branding and marketing in their respective careers during a discussion on the topic ‘Is branding and marketing necessary for service professionals like doctors, CAs, interior designer, advocates and How to do it’. The programme was organized by Vidarbha Industries Association’s (VIA) marketing forum at VIA Hall, Udyog Bhavan, on Monday. 

 “Being professional, while branding, you have to share and not to sell yourself” said Prarthana Nangia, interior designer and joint secretary, Institute of Indian Interior Designers, Nagpur Regional Chapter.
 
 She also discussed the importance of social media for marking and branding, which she said had created a tremendous positive effect while communicating with clients. “A brand takes time to build, it doesn’t grow in a day,” Nangia said. She also classified branding into two groups, visual and brand experience. 
 
 Dr  , an ophthalmologist, also had similar views and said that professionals needed to be careful while branding themselves, lest they end up ‘selling’ themselves instead. While appreciating the forum she said that such forums and social media were the best ways to promote oneself today.
 
 “When I started my career, there was no awareness about psychology in our country due to which I had to brand psychology first. Then it automatically branded me,” said Rita Aggarwal, consulting psychologist. She also discussed the importance of media when in marketing.
 
 “Branding comes automatically when you connect with people,” said Naresh Jakhotia, CA. Jakhotia also spoke about the importance of ‘out of the box thinking’ and said it was not necessary to go by the book always. “We need to think different to perform better than others,” he said. 
 
 Advocate Shailendra Harade discussed the restrictions of bar council which his fellow professionals have to face while branding and marketing themselves. He also said that these restrictions affected clients and added, “Proper marketing of advocates will benefit society.” 
 
 Akash Agrawal, chairman of the entrepreneurship forum of VIA, was the moderator of this programme which was attended by organizing committee member Shikha Khare and Shilpa Agrawal, chairperson, marketing forum.
 
 (Reporting by Shubham Nagdeve)
 
 
