 The   government is facing 
  over the introduction 33 per cent reservation for women in the urban local bodies.

 
 In 2012, the Naga Mothers' Association had appealed to the   to direct the state government to implement 33 per cent representation for women in the urban local bodies, like many other states. The apex court had ruled in their favour in April 2016.
 
 
 Following the Supreme Court's directive on reservation, the state cabinet gave the go ahead to conduct election to the urban local bodies, which had not taken place in Nagaland for the last 16 years.
 
 
 This is due to a resolution passed by the state assembly in 2006 to hold off on calling polls, which was brought under pressure from powerful tribal bodies dissatisfied with the reservation quotas accorded to them.
 
 
 The government's decision to give women 33 per cent reservation further galvanised the tribal bodies. They contended that the reservation infringes the special provision guaranteed to the Naga people under Article 371(A) of the Constitution.
 
 
 Naga tribal organisations, united under the Joint Coordination Committee ( ), called for bandhs and other forms of agitation to oppose the February 1 elections to urban local bodies.
 
 
  On January 30, the Nagaland Baptist Church Council brokered an agreement between the JCC and the state government to call off the bandh and postpone the polls by two months. But the situation turned volatile when the government refused to defer the polls after the Guwahati high court directed it to go forth with the election.
 
 
 Two people were killed and several sustained injuries after clashes between police and protesters on the night of January 31. In the fallout from this incident, curfew was imposed in  , while unruly protesters ransacked government offices and torched vehicles in   and Mokokchung. 
 
 
 Since the situation appeared to be spiralling out of control, the government decided on Wednesday to withhold the election process to 12 urban local bodies. 
 
 
 On Thursday, the Nagaland Tribes Action Committee, representing different tribal organisations, served an ultimatum to Zeliang and his cabinet to resign by 4 PM, remove Dimapur Commissioner of Police and also declare the election process null and void. Zeliang has refused to resign and urged people to end the violence.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
