NEW DELHI: Staying at a five-star hotel and having a meal at your favourite   there will cost more under the   regime. The government has decided to tax five star hotel services at the highest slab of 28%, much more than the combined service tax (6%) and luxury taxes levied at different rates by individual states at present.

 Industry sources said the average combined tax rate is in the range of 18% to 22%. So under the new system, staying or dining at five stars will become more expensive. However, budget hotels have been spared with room rates of less than Rs 1,000 and those charging up to Rs 5,000 will face 18% — meaning no change for this segment.
 
 “Levying 28% on hotels charging more than Rs 5,000 is atad unfair. The premise seems to be that if you are paying that much, then it’s a luxury. That is certainly not true in this day and age…. The tax burden will be borne either by the hotel ownership because they may have to offer all inclusive rates to remain competitive (in leisure markets) or by the end-user, who will be subject to higher tax because he is travelling on work or business (in corporate markets),” said Achin Khanna, MD of consulting and valuation at hospitality consultancy firm HVS (South Asia).
 
 Rajendra Kumar, a veteran of Delhi’s hospitality sector and owner of Ambassador, Vivanta by Taj, said: “Our industry once again feels let down, particularly when we were told that we would be taxed at 18%.”
 
 “Currently five-star hotels suffer service tax and luxury tax. Also, they have a tax cost on procurements of goods which they cannot set off. Under GST, there will be only one tax and also hotels will get benefit of tax paid on procurements. It is has to evaluated whether such hotels will increase prices,” said Anita Rastogi, indirect tax partner at PwC. “A lower tax rate for budget hotels will ensure that industry’s quality upgrade continues while delivering standardised accommodation to millions of middle-class travellers,” Ritesh Agarwal, founder & CEO, OYO.
 
 
