CHENNAI: On May 4, as the   entered Erode station, a group of passengers got down the train and roughed up a few railway employees. The coaches of the train had run out of water, and the passengers, travelling in the heat without water for more than 12 hours, had run out of patience.
The severe drought in Tamil Nadu and Kerala has hit Southern Railway. At a time when railways is promising to provide better amenities to its passengers, an overnight journey in Tamil Nadu and Kerala could be one without water in the toilets.Cleanliness has taken a beating as coaching depots in Trivandrum division have stopped cleaning activities since 45 days.Priority is being given to passenger use and upkeep of interiors.
 
 “Stinking toilets make it difficult for those sitting in the bay near the wash basin. Passengers can be seen using their drinking water to wash their hands and even the toilets,“ said D Sundar, a passenger on the SalemTirunelveli-Nagercoil route. The water scarcity has made things difficult for Southern Railway more so because it is passenger intensive, operates trains to every nook and corner of the country and maintains 6,300 coaches. Each carriage has to be filled with 900 litres of water for use in toilets and wash basins.These coaches are usually refilled every 300km when running. The mechanical department needs around 350 litres of water to wash the exterior of a coach and clean its interiors.
 
 A senior railway official in Chennai said given the drought there was little the railways could do. “ A large portion of our water supply comes from local bodies. Rivers, reservoirs and other water bodies have gone dry because of which those living in towns and villages are not getting water. We can't expect municipal authorities to supply us water for use in trains,“ he said.
 
 A senior official in Salem division said the railways owns some land near the Kaveri river where borewells have been sunk.However, they are yielding muddy water which is being purified for supply in coaches.
 
 The situation is similar in Madurai, Palakkad, Chennai and Trichy divisions. In desperation, officials of each division are writing to their counterparts to ensure that tanks in coaches are refilled. “If a coach is scheduled to be refilled in Trichy, it is passed on to the Madurai division citing shortage where the situation is equally worse,“ said a senior official in the mechanical department.
 
 In such tough times, the onus falls on passengers, said Sridhar Joshi, member of Rail Users Consultative Committee. “There are some who bathe in a train.This can be avoided,“ he said.
 
