THANE: A huge number of aspirants have made a beeline before   and netas seeking nominations as there are posibilities of alliances failing ahead of the civic   in  . As the date of filing nominations is arriving near, parties have started distributing application forms to those interested and many of them have been getting more than the expected volume of applications as compared to last. Along with the existing corporators, there are several other aspirants in parties who have shown interest in contesting polls as there is likely to be more opportunities if the parties fight solo.

 The Shiv Sena that started distributing the applications to candidates on Wednesday saw around 450 forms exhausted within two days. The NCP that has been exploring the possibility of a tie-up with the Congress has surprisingly given forms to many for all the 131 seats in the city. The BJP already has had a round of discussions with aspirants and is believed to be in talks with few other established names across parties till the final date of nominations. 
 
 The possibility of getting a nomination is higher if the parties fight separately while if there is an alliance, few could even lose an opportunity to even contest for the same. “Every party will have their candidate finalized to contest the   from each of the four seats in all wards. If the parties fight separately, more people are likely to get an opportunity to test their luck while if the alliance works out, the seats automatically get divided,” said a political observer. The MNS that seems to have lost all its seven corporators in the existing panel is also working on claiming its stake at nearly 36 seats in the city. 
 
 Meanwhile, as majority of the sitting corporators are contesting the polls again, a few like Mayor Sanjay More are believed not be seen trying their luck this time again. “I am not contesting the polls this time for personal reasons and have conveyed their reluctance to contest in the civic polls to their party leaders. Maybe someone from my family could represent the seat,” said More whose has had a comparatively volatile tenure with party colleagues.
 
 Few candidates who are ready with their publicity material are however waiting for the alliance talks to conclude before they make any further moves. “There are aspirants with notable clout in certain pockets but are awaiting the coalition talks to culminate following which they would put in their respective nominations. We have had candidates ready with their publicity material but are awaiting approval to put a party symbol on it as it will depend on if they want to defect to any other party or not,” said a poll publicist.
 
 
