KOCHI: The   (SIT), probing the abduction and alleged rape of a prominent actor in Kochi, took the accused to a house in Peelamedu in Coimbatore for evidence collection on Sunday. The house where they stayed undercover was taken on rent by Charlie, a friend of Vigeesh, 10 years ago. Sunil Kumar and Vigeesh reportedly took a bus to Coimbatore last Sunday. Sources said that they were accompanied by a third man whose identity is not known. The team led by Aluva DSP seized a tablet from the house. Police have reportedly secured a t-shirt belonging to one of the accused from the house with other material evidence.

 SIT left Aluva early on Sunday and the accused were taken inside the house separately. SIT also collected statements from the house owner and nearby residents, said sources. Police added the Pulsar bike in which Sunil Kumar and Vigeesh arrived in Ernakulum was 'stolen' from one Anthony Selvam, who shared the room with Charlie. Both Selvam and Charlie were taken into custody on Sunday.
 
 Police said that Selvam had purchased the bike from a Chennai native and had claimed that the bike was stolen by the accused early on Thursday. However, he did not lodge a complaint or report the theft.Police said that Vigeesh had worked as an electrician in Coimbatore six years ago. The contacts he made during his stay helped him to find shelter.
 
 Sources said search operations were also conducted at houses where students from Kerala used to stay after they received information that the accused had used the paying guest facility.
 
 Meanwhile, police are awaiting the forensics report on mobile phones. Apart from the phone presented in court by the accused's advocate, police had seized phones from the accused and the house in Kadavanthra.
 
 Police are yet to discover whether the phones have a video recording of the crime. “ A forensic analysis will only prove whether there was a copy of the visuals in any of these phones,“ said a senior police officer.
 
 Meanwhile, Sunil Kumar gave contradictory statements about the phone he originally used to `shoot the crime'. “He had given a statement that he had stashed the same inside a plastic cover at a drain in Thammanam. He changed it later and told us that he threw his phone off  ,“ said a police officer.
 
 In a separate incident, DGP Loknath Behera forwarded a complaint filed by a Mollywood actor to  .The actor had alleged that his name was tarnished in the ensuing days after the actor assault case was reported.
 
 Police had earlier collected evidence from a house near Kadavanthra. One of the accused was seen scaling the wall of the house after the crime. Senior police officers had visited the house and seized three mobile phones, a mobile tablet, two memory cards and a pen drive.
 
