NAGPUR: The sacking of the vice chancellor of Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth ( ), Akola, Raviprakash   by   has come under scanner of experts.

 Dani was sacked due the issue of is American citizenship. Experts say that since Dani had mentioned this in his bio-data, the governor’s office should have sacked him one year after his appointment, the time within which, as per rules, he should have obtained Indian citizenship. 
 
 “It means that the governor’s office is equally at fault as Dani didn’t change his citizenship as per the Maharashtra Universities Act. According to the act, a person of Indian origin could be appointed on the post, but he or she is eligible only for a period of one year from date of appointment (here August 14, 2012) and could be retained further in service only if he has become a citizen of India,” said a senior official with experience in recruitments.
 
 Sources also say that the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) to which all agricultural universities are affiliated, also knew about the citizenship issue. In fact, an ICAR officials is a; ways on the search committee constituted by the governor for VC’s appointment. In this case, S Ayyappan, the then director general of ICAR was on the search committee and was expected to appraise the governor about the issue. 
 
 A member of the committee, on condition of anonymity said, “The committee is not at fault. It was the job of the governor’s office to ensure that Dani took Indian citizenship within one year of appointment.”
 
 CD Mayee, former chairman of the  , told TOI that the state government should have made it clear to Dani at the end of his first year in office that he was ineligible to continue further unless he took Indian citizenship. “Why was he sacked just a few days before the end of his term,” he asked.
 
 Though no one TOI spoke to sympathized with Dani, and were of the opinion that he was a bad administrator and did nothing for the university, their objection is to the manner of his sacking. Many claim that the citizenship issue was used to hide some other issue, possibly of a more serious nature. 
 
 “There were many enquiries going on against him. Probably he has been found guilty in some of them and so has been sacked on the pretext of citizenship. It means that the governor’s office, which sat over the issue of citizenship all these years is trying to keep its image clean,” said a former vice chancellor of PDKV.
 
 Sources also say that the issue of his citizenship was being raised by many in the university as well as outside from the very beginning of his appointment, but it was only after the Maharashtra Council of Agriculture Education and Research (MCAER) moved his file to the governor’s office about a year back that a serious cognisance was taken of the issue.
 
 TOI tried to contact Dani repeatedly through smses and phone calls, but he failed to respond. 
 
 
