DHARAMSHALA: If clinching evidence was needed of this Australian batting unit being a one-man show away from home, it came in the ninth over of their second innings, the sort of second innings which leads to shattered egos, shortened careers and series defeats.

 Bhuvneshwar Kumar, in the middle of a dream spell in tandem with Umesh Kumar, had the ball in his hand and mischief on his mind.  , that great slayer of Indian attacks, was edgy, having lost   cheaply again, and looked to impose himself on the proceedings in spite of the ball doing all the biting and snarling.
 
 The Indians had been clueless against him for so long, Smith forgot a good batsman's greatest enemy is hubris.
 
 The first ball was pulled from outside off to behind square, an unbelievable effort meant to deflate the opposition, but it was bait, set up by Bhuvneshwar and stand-in skipper Ajinkya Rahane's machinations. Smith was being fed what he wanted. The second ball too for four, another wide, full delivery with 'smack me' written all over it.
 
 The third was another short ball, and Smith attempted another pull, only this time managing an under edge on to the stumps instead. In his desperation to see off India's 32-run lead, Smith had handed the Indians the Test, and the series, on a platter. Bhuvneshwar's smile said it all.
 
 It was the king of soft dismissals on a day of hard knocks for the Aussies. Smith's fatal error was in keeping with the proceedings on this most dramatic day of the season, which saw the entire theme of these contests being upended as India conquered Australia with pace, not spin, on a wicket more Australian in nature than any other in this series.
 
 The irony will not be lost on the Aussies any time soon, as they began the day with India 52 runs behind and ended with the hosts needing just 87 runs, with all 10 wickets intact, to wrest the Border-Gavaskar Trophy . In between, the visitors came and went, their second innings a blur of chaos and panic as they folded for 137. Smith finished with 499 runs in the series, agonizingly short of a rare milestone.
 
 Making this all possible was the most seamless teamwork seen from the Indians in a long, long while.   (329) was all fire and brimstone, unfurling short deliveries to soften up Australia's best before moving in for the kill, like he did with Warner and Matt Renshaw. It was hostile pace bowling at its provocative best.
 
 Somewhere in between the carnage, Matthew Wade ­ having done enough chirping all day to tire his lungs out -scored a 90-ball, unbeaten 25, a valiant, doomed display of resolve. Maxwell (45 from 60) too committed batting suicide, offering no shot to one from Ashwin.
 
 Then there was the day's big revelation,   (63 and 324), an all-round tour de force who weathered the early storm in the company of Wriddhiman Saha, kept pocketing the runs to frustrate the Aussies, and took his reputation as a batsman up several notches as India took the psychological lead. Without Jadeja's lion-hearted effort, India's dressing room would be wearing a different look at stumps.
 
 This was a day of Test cricket which should be preserved for posterity, framed for display in cricket's hall of fame, served up as example whenever talk of the five-day format's demise does the rounds. It had twists and turns enough to make the protagonists dizzy, and enough skirmishes to last a season, including a dropped catch from Vijay which was caught only on a review and made the Aussies see red.
 
 As Jadeja said about himself: “Test cricket mey log kehte hain character chahiye, who bhi dekhne ko mil gaya (People say Test cricket needs character, I got to experience that too). “In the Australian camp, as batting coach Graeme Hick disclosed, there was only “pin-drop silence in the dressing room.”
 
