The renowned beauty guru,   is one of India’s leading aromatherapy purveyors. From her immense knowledge in aromatherapy to the hot-selling beauty goods, she is the force behind changing the face of beauty in India.

 
 
 
 
 While her beauty brand, Aroma Magic has been one of the few brands in India that have been taking the plunge into green beauty revolution. The brand uses natural fragrances, organic ingredients in the most natural way.
 
 And now Blossom Kochhar has got a book for all of us to enjoy! The book ‘Aromatheraphy A Way of Life’ elaborates the uses of essentials oil in everyday life. From stress, pain to attracting your love, she has given a hack for all. 
 
 The book teaches about Aromatherapy—which means healing through the sense of smell. And the detailed guide in the book teaches about the therapeutic benefits of essential oils. 
 
 We scooped out 4 DIY tricks from the book, to know what to expect from the book: 
 
 
 
 Make a toner at home by blending 10 drops of essential oil to 100ml of water; this toner can be used for normal, dry and sensitive skin. For oily skin, the book recommends blending the oil with witch-hazel. This DIY toner should be stored in a dark bottle and can be used daily after cleansing.
 
 
 
 Essential oils are non-oily and they can be used for all skin types, suggests Blossom Kochhar in the book. She recommends mixing 2 drops of Tea Tree oil, 1 drop of Lemon oil and 1 teaspoon of Jojoba oil. Take a few drops of this mixture and gently massage into your skin. Then, use a hot towel on the face for few minutes, so the oil can penetrate better.
 
 
 
 Patchouli essential oil is good for the oily scalp and Blossom Kochhar suggests using this DIY mixture before shampooing.
 Mix one tablespoon water with 10 drops of Patchouli oil. Apply this mixture all over the scalp and hair. One you’ve applied this, she suggests using a toning lotion. For the toner, mix 1 tablespoon of malt vinegar with 1 glass of water and 3 drops of Patchouli. Use this toner to rinse through your scalp and hair. She recommends massaging your scalp with this toning lotion on a regular basis. 
 
 
 For a body massage mixture, she recommends adding 1 tablespoon of almond oil, 2 drops of sandalwood and 1 drop of rose oil to a bowl of yoghurt. Use this mixture for body massage and leave it for 15 minutes. Yoghurt can help in removing tanning and also soothe skin post body scrubbing. While rose works as a great skin oil for toning and sandalwood helps to soften the skin.
 
 
