NEW DELHI: The government reiterated on Thursday that alleged spy   was a kidnapped, innocent Indian who had been sentenced to death by   in complete violation of all international norms.

 With Pakistan denying India any sort of access to Jadhav, Union ministry of external affairs admitted that New Delhi had no knowledge even about his whereabouts in Pakistan.
 
 Official sources here said India will continue to seek consular access to Jadhav even as Pakistan tries to make it conditional by linking it to assistance from Indian authorities in further probing its allegations against Jadhav.
 
 MEA also said it had no knowledge about the retired Pakistan army officer who has gone missing from Nepal and whose case has been linked with Jadhav in Pakistan media reports. Pakistan said on Thursday that the role of foreign spy agencies cannot be ruled out in the disappearance of the officer. India is likely to issue yet another note verbale, the 14th one, for access to Jadhav.
 
 “India has no knowledge of Kulbhushan Jadhav’s location and his condition. We are making all efforts to get him back but we can’t reveal the steps that will be taken to achieve it,” said MEA spokesperson Gopal Baglay, adding that the entire country stood united over the issue. The government is in touch with Pakistan through the Indian High Commission on this immensely important issue, he said.
 
 Baglay said Jadhav is an innocent Indian who is a retired officer of the   and these two things were conveyed to Pakistan in March 2016. On Jadhav carrying an Indian passport with fake name, Baglay said, “We cannot ascertain anything since we did not have any consular access. Which kind of spy keeps an original passport with him so I have my doubts on any allegation of his being a spy...We need to know how he came to be in Pakistan in the first place.” 
 
 India has continued to maintain that Jadhav was running a business at Chabahar in Iran when he was kidnapped and brought to Balochistan from where Pakistan claims to have arrested him. Baglay said the trial of Jadhav was opaque and farcical and no due process was followed.
 
 The issue has led to another round of strife between the two countries with India warning Pakistan of serious consequences if Jadhav was indeed executed. Foreign minister   has declared that India will go out of its way to save Jadhav.
 
 
