NEW DELHI: The government on Monday set up the Prime Minister’s   which will be headed by  , member of  .

 The other members of the panel include economists Surjit Bhalla, Rathin Roy and Ashima Goyal. Ratan Watal, principal advisor, NITI Aayog has been appointed member-secretary of the panel.
 
 During the UPA government’s tenure, former RBI governor C Rangarajan was the chairman of the PM’s economic advisory council. But since assuming power in May 2014, the Narendra Modi-led government had preferred not to set up such a panel.
 
 The terms of reference of the panel would be to analyse any issue— economic or otherwise— referred to it by the Prime Minister and advising him on such issues. The EAC is an independent body and provides advice on economic and related issues to the government, specifically to the Prime Minister.
 
 The panel is also expected to address issues of macroeconomic importance and presenting them to the Prime Minister. “This could be suomotu or reference from the Prime Minister or anyone,” sources said.
 
 The setting up of the panel comes against the backdrop of the slowdown in the economy and criticism of the government’s handling of key issues linked to the economy.
 
 Debroy studied at Presidency College, Kolkata, Delhi School of Economics and Trinity College, University of Cambridge. He has held several positions in government and has been a consultant in the finance ministry. He was the chairman of the panel of the high-powered committee set up to restructure the state-run railways.
 
 Debroy is also a prolific writer and an ace chess player and apart from writing on economic issues, he has translated Mahabharata and the Bhagwad Gita in English. He was appointed member of the NITI Aayog when it was set up three years ago.
 
 Surjit Bhalla, is the chairman and MD of Oxus Investments, an economic research, asset management and emerging markets advisory entity. According to his website, he holds a PhD in economics from  , a Master in Public and International Affairs from Woodrow Wilson School, Princeton University, and a BSEE degree from Purdue University. Ashima Goyal is a professor at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research.
 
 She holds a PhD in economics from Bombay University and M Phil from the Delhi School of Economics. Rathin Roy heads the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy (NIPFP). He also served as the economic advisor to the 13th finance commission and part-member of the 7th Central Pay Commission.
 
 He holds a PhD in economics and an MPhil from University of Cambridge. After retiring as finance secretary, Watal joined the NITI Aayog as principal advisor. He is an Andhra Pradesh cadre IAS officer.
 
