Though he has done only two films in Tamil,   is someone who needs no introduction to the audience here. The recent years have been special for him, essaying characters which were popular and won him recognition. He was also part of short films, an animation film, and is now gearing up for an international production. The versatile artiste, who hopes for a successful stint in Kollywood, sits down for a conversation with us, and talks about the importance of staying grounded, the need to interact with people, his interest to learn Tamil, and more…

 
 It’s true that I did only two films in Tamil — Anjaan and Samar — both of which had big stars and sensible directors. My bad luck, both the films didn’t fare well (laughs). I was hoping that these projects would take me close to the Tamil audience. I’m still hopeful of landing great characters in Tamil. 
 
 
 I try to watch films in many languages. Visaaranai is one film which impressed me in the recent times. I like such films; I get to learn a lot from these kind of films. When I get time, I notice the works of actors here. I have immense admiration for Rajini sir. I don’t know what power he’s born with — everybody loves and adores him. I have been a huge fan of   sir as well. I learn the nuances of performance from his works. It is good to see that Vikram, Suriya and Vijay… all doing well. I follow the works of Mani Ratnam, Rahman... It is sad that I don’t understand the language — cannot speak it. But I don’t mind appointing a tutor to learn Tamil if I get an interesting role to play here.
 
 
 This project is a special one for me. Neeraj is one of the intelligent directors I’ve worked with— he has done a lot of research to develop the incidents and characterisations in this movie. I play an intelligence officer in the film, a rough-and-tough guy who is unemotional. I have a lot of dialogues — uttering all of them and still staying devoid of emotions was something I found challenging to do. The film’s director Shivam Nair is an old friend of mine, and like always, it was fun working with people whom you gel well with.
 
 
 It is easy when actors are trained, either by themselves or from an institute, to follow the instructions of directors. There are a lot of intelligent filmmakers out there, each one equipped with their own narrative style. The people with whom I have had a good rapport with — be it Ram Gopal Varma or Anurag Kashyap or Neeraj or others, all of them know how to extract what they want from actors like us. It gives me an immense high knowing that I’m one of their favourite actors. It is quite gratifying that I get to fulfil their vision in one or the other way.
 
 
 Yes, I do it. This is something I have been practising for almost two decades — from the time of Sathya, to be precise, the film which gave me a major break. Not everybody is an RGV or a Neeraj Pandey. The good thing is, these days, in Mumbai, almost every filmmaker comes with a complete script. That has been the norm from a few years. Things have become so professional that the makers provide you a detailed script now even if you don’t ask for it. Earlier, many used to have ideas in their head, but not on papers. Of late people have become very punctual on set, too. Everyone reports on time and there are instances where shooting gets wrapped up before the assigned days.
 
 
 I remember what Mahesh Bhatt said once. ‘Actors, in their initial phase, yearn for recognition from people. Once they are successful at it, they paint the glass of their cars black, as they then tend to avoid the same people’. I feel an actor should mingle with people as much as possible. He shouldn’t lose touch with reality. I go to my village, listen to people there, I go to restaurants, engage in shopping — I love all these. I force myself to do it. People come to you, sometimes they demand a selfie or an autograph. The advantage is that I get many characters during such instances. When you keep people away, I wonder where you get inspiration while playing a character. 
 
 
 I don’t think it’s that difficult. When you walk with a security, people tend to get curious to know about the VIP or the big shot whom they are accompanying. Otherwise, they don’t recognise you very easily. Nobody would believe that Manoj Bajpayee is walking on streets. The chances of you getting noticed are more when you are surrounded by guards. When I shop for vegetables or groceries at Connaught Place in Delhi, shopkeepers come to me, but they ensure that they don’t disturb me or the atmosphere over there. I believe actors should try to be with people and it is essential that they stay grounded. 
 
 
 I feel that observation comes from within. When I’m talking to you, a part of my brain is observing you. Over the years, it has become a habit. When I pay a visit to my village where I meet thousands of people, I tend to absorb most of their behaviours. They are all my characters. 
 
 
 I take the opinions of my friends I made during my stint with theatre very seriously. They give suggestions, advice, criticisms and appreciations. I trust them completely — their opinions do not come out of jealousy — it is pure and transparent. I’m lucky that I have never been subjected to blunt criticism.
 
 
 I’m an emotional man. I have a child in myself. I tend to cry as and when little things happen in life. The visuals from Syria break my heart; it’s quite heart-breaking. 
 
 
 I always wanted to do something like that. You can finish working in a short film in a day or two, and the experience is great. I didn’t take any penny for those short films. I did Ouch with Neeraj, Kriti with Sirish Kunder and Tandav with Devashish. I feel Sirish hasn’t got his due in the industry. I’m planning to do a feature film with Devashish. 
 
 
 To be honest, I don’t think I had to compete with anyone. Those who wanted to be stars were not keen on taking up the roles I was offered. I never wanted to be stereotyped and always wanted to be known as a good actor. I think it is my tryst with theatre which made me develop a penchant for performance-oriented characters.
 
 
 People say that I get along well with others. I never had any conflicts with anyone. I never offend anyone, and if I do it unintentionally, I do whatever I can to rectify it. Hansal Mehta, Anurag Kashyap, etc, are a few people with whom I consider as friends in tinsel town.
  
 
 The practices of Censor Board have always been a matter of concern. In a democratic country, I believe it is the prerogative of a director to insert or remove a scene from a film. The board should ensure that they should only certify films and not censor. Also, in the age of Internet, there’s nothing which is unavailable to people. The parents should decide what their children should watch, and imposing terms on films will only hamper the creative vision of a director.
 
 
 Life is such that you shuttle between different places and travel from one city to another. I have to do my job as well. I always try to slot time so that I get enough time to spend with my wife and daughter. My wife says that of late I have become a better family man (laughs).
 
 
 
