Nagpur: State education department’s baseline and cumulative tests for Std I to VIII have been criticised by MLC   for the lack of security measures during question paper distribution and the “futility” of the tests.

 Ganar said, “The government is not serious about these tests and merely putting on a show for the sake of doing something. Question papers were leaked yet they went ahead with the test. The entire framework of these tests is incorrect and it’s a completely futile exercise.”
 
 The test is conducted for all boards and question papers are sent by the education department. Each academic year, three such tests are held with the first one being called baseline test and the other two as cumulative tests.
 
 The baseline test, at the start of the academic session, determines the basic academic level of the student and the following cumulative tests chart the progress or decline in the student’s learning curve. In Nagpur district, approximately five lakh students appear for the test, which is mandatory.
 
 Evaluation of the tests is done at the school level itself and marks sent to the education department online. 
 
 Ganar said he will be raising this issue in the monsoon assembly session as well. “There has to be accountability in the education department and it cannot function on the whims and fancies of officials in the department. I will do what is best for the teachers and students always, hence, I strongly feel that as a public representative it is my duty to ask these questions,” said Ganar.
 
 The city MLC felt that these tests could not capture details about a student’s performance in the correct way. Ganar said, “Teachers are the best people to understand a student’s ability and capability. Plus the system of written tests is there for every class, so these baseline tests are in a way redundant.” 
 
 The ‘paper leaks’ have happened not because of mischief but because pretty much everyone has access to the paper well before the exam date.
 
 The papers are supplied to district education offices in loose sheets without any secured covering. Schools receive these open loose sheets, giving every teaching and non-teaching staff access to these papers.
 
 
