Guests might turn up at tonight's event at   expecting it to be renamed as E  , but the   says that there has been some 'confusion' – the name stays.

  The Sangeet Natak Akademi appears to have made a U-turn on its decision to rename Meghdoot I after theatre veteran and former national School of Drama ( ) chief  , after the news of the name change created a stir. It was reported that the Culture Ministry has sought an internal report on the decision to rename Meghdoot I. The Akademi, which was established as an autonomous institution in 1952, comes under the purview of the Culture Ministry.
 
  The invites for the May 3, programme that were sent out to people including theatre actors from Delhi and Mumbai, read – "The Chairperson of the Sangeet Natak Akademi Shri   takes pleasure in inviting you to the ceremony for the renaming of the Meghdoot-I Theatre in honour of the Eminent Theatre Educationist Shri Ebrahim Alkazi to E Alkazi Rangpeeth."
 
  Talking about the special programme and renaming of Meghdoot I, Atul Tiwari, an executive board member of the Akademi, told us, "When Alkazi came up with the first open-air theatre in Mumbai on the terrace of one of the buildings, it was called Meghdoot. Although Alkazi did not lay NSD's foundation stone, he was the one to chalk out a structured syllabus for studying theatre at NSD. In 1959, NSD was established as part of the Sangeet Natak Akademi, and Meghdoot as well as NSD were part of the same building. To pay a tribute to Alkazi saab for his contribution to theatre, Alkazi Rangpeeth will be added to Meghdoot’s name. A special programme has been planned for the occasion where we will announce this. A performance by Naseeruddin Shah will be part of the evening, which will be attended by many big names in theatre and Alkazi's family."
 
  However, Shekhar Sen, chairperson of Sangeet Natak Akademi, said on Tuesday that they never intended to change the name of Meghdoot I. "There is some confusion because of the invites. We never intended to change the name of Meghdoot I, and the whole controversy is baseless. We are celebrating 50th year of Meghdoot this year, and we wanted to pay a tribute to the man who propagated the making of Meghdoot. We will also have the screening of a short film and an exhibition on Alkazi on May 3. All four Meghdoot theatres will continue to be called Meghdoot for all official purposes, even in future. We called the theatre complex 'Rangpeeth' as 'peeth' means centre of learning," said Sen.
 
  A well-known theatre actor, who’d received an invite for today's event, said, "It was clear from the invitation that Meghdoot I will be renamed, and a ceremony was being planned for its renaming. It didn't look like there was some confusion, but authorities might have changed their decision later."
 
 
