SHIMLA/MANALI: Heavy snowfall received in several parts of Himachal Pradesh threw normal life out of gear as roads were blocked and transmission lines were snapped forcing people to live without power and daily supply of milk, bread and newspapers. Mercury dropped sharply with Shimla and Bhuntar recording a low of 0.2 degree. Authorities have also warned of medium avalanche in high hills and tribal areas of the state.

 Felling of trees in different parts of Shimla damaged vehicles and also affected the power supply as transmission lines too have been snapped. The state capital and several other areas were without power for more than 10 hours. It was not easy to restore power for the state electricity board engineers and workmen amid the continuing snowfall. A four storey house near Brookhurst was damaged after a tree fell on it making it unsafe for the four families living in it.
 
 Snowfall also left the commuters in lurch as several roads were blocked in snowbound areas including Shimla, Kullu and Manali. The upper Shimla and Kinnaur region were cut off bringing vehicular traffic to a halt beyond Shoghi where a large number of travellers were stuck. Nearly 400 tourists got stranded at Solang and Palchan villages of Manali after very heavy and sudden snowfall trapped nearly 100 vehicles on Friday evening. The Manali-Kullu highway was blocked with snow on late night. While buses could not move beyond Raison, about 25km before Manali, many minor collisions between vehicles due to slips on snow were witnessed. 
 
 Maximum 50cm snowfall was recorded in Khadrala followed by 45cm in Theog, 32cm in Shimla and 45-55cm in key tourist resorts of Kufri, Fagu, Narkanda and Khada Patthar. Manali has so far received over 45cm of snow in last 24 hours. Solang recorded 70cm snow while snow accumulation of Rohtang pass has reached over 150cm. Jalori pass also received over 40cm of snow, cutting off Anni and Nirmand sub-divisions from district headquarters at Kullu. Snowbound tribal districts of Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur comparatively received less snowfall. The snowfall was preceded by rains and sleet. Shimla received 20mm of rains, Dharamshala 44mm, Mandi, Poanta Sahib and Solan 38mm each, Nahan 35mm, Una 34mm, Bajura 32mm of rain. 
 
 Manali DSP Puneet Raghu said, “Police kept patrolling the whole night. The main challenge that we have is to keep the traffic moving.” Keeping in view the inclement weather,   has issued the advisory that people should remain prepared for any exigency as heavy rain and snow may occur in next 24 hours. General public is also requested not to visit higher reaches as avalanche warning has been issued by the Met department. Municipal corporation joint commissioner, Shimla, Prashant Sirkek said, “In view of the first rain after the long dry spell, citizens are requested to advise friends, family and colleagues to boil water for at least 15 minutes before consumption to prevent spread of disease.” 
 
 The snowfall has brought cheers to apple growers as it is considered white manure for the produce. The three-month long dry spell has ended which will be beneficial for the Rabi crop. TNN & AGENCIES
 
 Box: Temp to drop
 
 On Saturday, rain and snow occurred at most places with heavy falls at isolated places. On Sunday, rain and snow will occur at scattered places while weather will mostly be clear up to January 13-14 in Himachal Pradesh. Minimum temperature in state will drop for next two-three days.
 
 Snowfall recorded-
 
 Theog: 45.0cm
 
 Shimla: 32.0cm
 
 Manali: 26.0cm
 
 Bijahi: 15.2cm
 
 Jhanjehli: 13.0cm
 
 Jubbal: 10.0cm
 
 Kalpa & Saloni: 8.0cm each
 
 Seobagh: 7.0cm
 
 Kumarsain & Rohru: 5.0cm each
 
 Keylong & Sarahan: 4.0cm each
 
 Kotkhai: 2.5cm
 
 Rainfall recorded-
 
 Banjar 73mm
 
 Gohar & Sunnibajji 72mm each
 
 Kasauli & Berthin 67mm each
 
 Kahu & Sujanpurtira 58mm each
 
 Nadaun 56mm
 
 Bhoranj & Palampur 54mm each
 
 Sundernagar & Aghar 53mm each
 
 Dharamshala 44mm
 
 Mandi, Paonta Sahib & Solan 38mm each
 
 Nahan 35mm
 
 Una 34mm
 
 Bajaura 32mm
 
 Seobagh 30mm
 
 Shimla 20mm
 
 
