 Arun Jaitley left indirect tax slabs untouched on account of the scheduled transition to the Goods and   during the course of 2017-18. However, spending is likely to get a boost due to the reduction in income tax and other public   proposed by the government. 

  The FM has proposed changes to a few individual products to reorient the tax framework to promote the NDA government's key schemes of   and Digital India. Changes in customs and excise duties were used to promote domestic manufacture in machinery used in renewable energy supply, electronics, textiles and chemicals, among others. 
 
  For LNG and machinery used in renewable energy generation, customs duty on imports was reduced to incentivise domestic manufacture of value-added products. In contrast, special additional duty of 2% on circuit boards used in manufacture of mobile phones was introduced to protect domestic industry . Local cell phone makers such as Lava, Karbonn and Intex import the component at present. 
 
  Customs duty was also used to protect agriculture. The basic customs duty on cashew nuts was increased from 30% to 45%.This is expected to provide domestic manufacturers with space to increase prices. Consequently, the prices of premium biscuits and other sweetmeats which use cashew as input are expected to face upward pressure. 
 
  Customs duty is also being changed to promote digital payments. It has been removed on import of miniaturised point-of-sale card readers and micro ATMs and eliminated on iris scanners and finger print readers, too. 
 
  Central excise duties were also used as a tool to promote domestic manufacturing. Excise duty on machinery used in renewable energy generation was lowered from 12.5% to 6%. 
 
 As in the case of previous Budgets, smokers are set to pay more as the finance minister increased taxes for the third consecutive time. Cigarettes and paper-rolled bidis will cost more. Cigarettes of tobacco substitutes have also been subjected to a higher excise duty.
 
  According to K K Modi, chairman of Godfrey Phillips: "There will be a price hike, possibly to the extent of 4%-6%, depending on how competition reacts." He added, "This would further encourage the illegal cigarette industry which does not pay tax." 
 
  Indirect tax collection for 2017-18 will rise to Rs 9,26,900 crore, higher by 9%.
 
