ISLAMABAD: At least 14 people, including senior police officers, were killed, and 73 injured, in a suicide bomb attack in a highly secure area of Lahore on Monday.  , a terrorist group linked with Pakistani  , claimed responsibility for the attack.

 The explosion occurred when a large group of chemists and pharmaceutical manufacturers had gathered to protest against a new government law outside the provincial assembly building on Mall Road, one of Lahore’s main arteries.
 
 “The suicide attacker was on foot,” said Dr Mohammad Iqbal, chief of Counter Terrorism Department. Eyewitnesses, however, said that the attacker was on motorbike and he detonated his explosives in the middle of the crowd.
 
 The blast was so powerful that it was heard several kilometres away. TV cameras captured the horrific scenes of the explosion and smoke billowing as panic-stricken people ran helter skelter.
 
 Among the dead were DIG (Traffic) Ahmad Mobin, and SSP Zahid Gondal. DIG Mobin was seen on TV before the blast, urging the protesters to end the strike. Several ambulances arrived at the scene, while security forces, including heavy contingents of soldiers, cordoned off the area.
 
 On February 7, the   (NACTA) had issued a warning that “an unidentified terrorist group has planned a terrorist attack in Lahore”. It urged “extreme vigilance and heightened security measures”.
 
 In its notification, NACTA had addressed Punjab’s home secretary and senior police officials that all vital installations, including important buildings, hospitals and schools, be kept under strict vigilance.
 
 Punjab law minister Rana Sanaullah said preparations were made after the alert was received. “The spot where the blast took place is always under threat. Even if there was no alert, strict security measures are always taken in the area,” he said.
 
 PM   condemned the attack and reiterated Pakistan is in decisive fight against terrorism while praising the sacrifices of the slain security personnel.
 
 “We will continue this fight against the terrorists among us, and will continue to fight it until we liberate our people of this cancer, and avenge those who have laid down their lives for us,” Sharif said. “We will not stop until we can call ourselves a free and secure people; that is a promise,” he said.
 
