By-Varinder S Grewal

 Recently, the majority of Indians in America feel sobered by a spate of incidents of hate crimes and harass ment, be in academic institutions, place of worship, businesses, or just on the street. Injustices to immigrants (of a particular colour, and, more so, to Indian immigrants) is not a new phenomenon, even the forefathers of this country struggled and failed in addressing the issue.
 
 It goes back to the decision in the case of US versus Bhagat Singh Thind (1923).   deemed Asian Indians ineligible for citizenship because US law allowed only free whites to become naturalized citizens. The court conceded that Indians were “Caucasians“ (which was the basis of immigration at the time) and that anthropologists considered them to be of the same race as white Americans, but argued that “the average man knows perfectly well that there are unmistakable and profound differences“ (means they are not free white).
 
 The Thind decision also led to successful efforts to denaturalize some who had previously become citizens. Only in 1946 did Con gress, which was beginning to recog niz e that India would soon be in dependent and a major world power, pass a new law that allowed Indians to become citizens and also estab lished a small im migration quota.
 
 But major immi gration to the   from   did not begin until after immigration laws were sharply revised in 1965.
 
 The question we need to ask is, is America of 2017 more inclusive than American of 1923 or 1965? As it was again asked by the widow of engineer   (he was murdered in Kansas): “Do we belong here?“ A possible answer came from one of the highest officials in the White House, Sean Spicer, White House press secretary, when an Indian-American woman confronted him while shopping at an Apple Store.Spicer answered with a very cunning smile, “It's such a great country that allows you to be here“. Read: you may be Caucasian, but Not Free White! I assure you that we will continue to struggle with the issue of immigration or acceptance of immigrants for decades to come, in spite of immigrants' contribution to make America Great. The irony is that, These days, only way you can be seen as “nationalist“ or “patriotic“ is if you are anti-immigrant, or anti-liberal! This may help you to strengthen your vote bank in the short run.
 
 America has problems, will continue to have problems, but, America is still the best country in the world. I have been living in this country since 1991.
 
 (The writer is a resident of Hanford, California.)
 
