HYDERABAD: Ten years after the   ordered all states to set up police complaint authorities, to look into “allegations of serious misconduct“ by police personnel, the Telangana government has made no attempt to comply with the directive.

 The issue came to light recently when city-based RTI activist, M Sai Prasad, wrote to chief minister,  , seeking an explanation for the delay in setting up the authority . A copy of the letter was marked to Anurag Sharma, director general of police and N Narasimha Reddy, state home minister, too.
 
 Listing out the ramifications of the delay , the letter sta ted how it “has left hundreds of victims and their families in the lurch“. “This has allowed corrupt police officials to go scot free. This is the present reality of law and order system in Telangana, despite the government's claim of friendly policing,“ the letter read.
 
 As an example, the activist has upheld a 2017 case where an employee of the   (AMD) ended her life due to dowry harassment by her husband. “It was shocking to read the suicide note of the deceased, where she revealed: Don't trust Begumpet police, they were bo ught over by my in-laws, girls beware of cheats (sic),“ Sai Prasad wrote.
 
 In the absence of an authority, which was expected to bring a change in the policing culture in the long run, complainants have been left with no choice but to approach senior policemen to register their grievances.
 
 As per the  's ( ) 2015 data, there were 95 such complaints registered against policemen that year, with 40 among them filed against the city police.
 
 The prescribed state-level authority , the SC norms suggest should be headed by a retired high court judge and also comprise a panel of retired Indian Police Service (IPS) and Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers.
 
 But while Telangana continues to drag its feet on the issue, neighbouring   initiated process of establishing the quasi-judicial body , in 2015.
 
 Civil society members from the state are, predictably , disgusted with the government and allege that its failure to set up the authority is not just a violation of the apex court's order but also a gross violation of human rights. “It is surprising that there has been no talk of setting up an independent body to look into violations of human rights that take place within the confines of a police station. Even when the officials are pulled up for enquiry , the superior officers tend to shield their subordinates,“ said C Anjaneya Reddy , former IPS officer.
 
