Thane: The heavy showers that had lashed the lake city since the last few months has led to a loss in  . The city has witnessed 546 tree fall incidents, which is 53% higher than last year’s figure which stood at 356.

 In September, itself, the city recorded three times more tree fall cases as compared to last year at the same time. With the number of trees being uprooted is on the rise with every monsoon, city environmentalists are concerned about the fate of the green canopy of the city in the years to come.
 
 Activists have claimed that even though strong winds and heavy showers are some of the reasons for the rise in tree fall cases, the roots have also become weak over the years due to an increase in concretization and the  . 
 
 “While the reason for the rise in these tree fall incidents in due to increasing concretization, indiscriminate hacking of branches and lack of care, the main reason is the fault in the administrative responsibilities of the corporation, which includes a proper budget allocation of the protection of trees, hiring qualified staffers, consulting experts while taking any major projects that would potentially harm the environment, conducting scientific pre-monsoon trimming of trees instead of leaving it on the contractors’ mercy and so on. The corporation must take active role in all this and even include citizens instead of working passively,” said  , secretary of a city-based enviro-NGO.
 
 While civic officials agree that growing concretization is one of the reasons for the tree fall cases this year, they claim that the main reason for the natural deforestation is the exceptionally high rainfall and strong winds this monsoon.
 
 “We have received some exceptional rain and strong wind this year. Last year, the monsoon had receded in August and September. However, this year, it has increased during these days. This unfortunate natural deforestation is because of the heavy showers and strong wind that had increased this month,” said a senior civic official.
 
