RANCHI:  , the state parliamentary affairs minister, who is one of the key   in the Rs 900 crore fodder   welcomed the   verdict that allowed separate trials in different cases of the scam. The verdict reverses the Jharkhand high court's order of November 14, 2014, in which the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) was restricted from pursuing four different cases against former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad for similar charges based on a similar set of witnesses. 

 Rai said that it was historic decision and in accordance with the spirit of the Indian Penal Code. "It was on the basis of a petition filed before the Supreme Court in 1996 that a direction was issued to CBI for conducting a probe into the multi-crore fodder scam," Rai said. He added that it was after this direction that CBI registered separate cases against Prasad and other accomplices in the scam.
 
 Rai, who had filed a series of petitions for probing the role of government officials and two former chief ministers of erstwhile Bihar government - Lalu Prasad and Jagannath Mishra - said the purpose of filing separate cases by the CBI would have been defeated if they were not tried separately. "The CBI ultimately moved the Supreme Court against the Jharkhand high court's order and was successful in establishing the need for filing separate cases and having separate trials in them," Rai said.
 
 While brushing aside their contentions that they cannot be tried separately for each of the cases having similar facts and circumstances, the bench said, "The modus operandi being the same would not make it a single offence when the offences are separate". 
 
 "Commission of offence pursuant to a conspiracy has to be punished. If conspiracy is furthered into several distinct offences, there have to be separate trials," a bench of Justices Arun Mishra and Amitava Roy said.
 
 Of the 64 cases arising from the scam, the RJD chief has been named as accused in six cases and he has already been convicted in one of the case involving fraudulant withdrawal of Rs 37.70 crore from Chaibasa treasury, which now falls in Jharkhand, between April 1, 1994 to January 31, 1995. The other cases which are to be completed against him are related to the treasuries of Chaibasa, Doranda in Ranchi involving Rs 139.39 crore, Dumka (Rs 3.31 crore) and Patna.
 
 Besides the RJD supremo, there are 37 other accused persons in the case.
 
