NAGPUR: The ongoing concretization of 48 stretches across the city has become a major hassle for motorists. Lack of alternative routes and thin police presence to man traffic on these roads is leading to constant snarls. 

 Motorists had welcomed the step but now they have started have expressing concerns over the tardy pace of work. “The sudden halt in road works irks us,” said Rajesh Sahare, a resident of Nari. 
 
 The civic authorities said they are trying to expedite the works and complete the road construction soon.
 
 The   started concretization of tar roads in 2015. During the same time, state public works department too started concretization of the inner Ring Road. Deadly accidents have occurred at sites where the road works were abruptly stopped, citizens said.
 
 The traffic cops have issued a notice to  , a private firm engaged in road works, for ignoring safety norm. 
 
 In its notice, the DCP (traffic) office stated that traffic wardens were not deployed at two sites ITI T-point to Sambhaji Nagar Chowk and   to LED College. Similarly, traffic signage, reflectors and blinkers were also missing at the sites. 
 
 Mayor Nanda Jichka and municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal visited the concretization sites on Saturday to monitor the situation. Jichkar also directed the civic body to complete the work as soon as possible.
 
 Blaming the   for the traffic chaos, motorists said that the civic officials should be held accountable for the situation. “There seem to be no proper planning. The civic body did not even think of alternative routes to divert traffic before starting the work. It takes over half an hour just to cross a 50-metre stretch," Pranay Rahate, a resident of Indora said.
 
 The situation when the traffic cops are absent absent is chaotic, said motorists. 
 
 Heavy vehicles, especially buses and four-wheelers, have a hard time as other vehicles occupy small spaces and halt movement, added Rakhim Bhattacharya, a resident of Yashodhara Nagar.
 
 A resident of Banerjee Layout Shekhar Bala said, “The MPCB should come and inspect this area. There is so much dust pollution caused due to the ongoing work. Someone needs to be held accountable for this.” 
 
 
