New Delhi: Now you can apply for a permanent account number ( ), pay taxes, chat with a tax officer using your smartphone — all on an app developed by the I-T department. 

 You can also link your 12-digit   number with your PAN and a host of other tax-related functions using the app, which is being seen as a step to reduce interface of the taxpayer with the department and ensure hassle-free services using technology. The app, which is available for Android phones, was launched by finance minister   on Monday. A desktop version was also unveiled.
 
 “This is a very important step forward by the   (Central Board of Direct Taxes) and the principle reason being technology as a very powerful tool becomes an enabler. Most of the work an assessee can discharge without any external help sitting at home,” said Jaitley.
 
 “The app reduces the physical interface between assessing officer (AO) and assessees. Physical interface has many unintended consequences — it is time consuming and can lead to improprieties,” the minister said. CBDT said it constantly endeavours to provide better taxpayer services and reduce taxpayer grievances. New schemes and e-initiatives to educate taxpayers and deliver tax payer services in an effective manner are key to this effort.
 
 “The new step is an effort by the I-T department to directly communicate with taxpayers, on a range of multiple informative and useful tax services, aimed at providing tax information at their fingertips,” the tax department said.
 
 It said the module compiles various tax tools, live chat facility, dynamic updates, and important links to various processes within the I-T department in a single module. Taxpayers will be able to receive updates regarding important tax dates, forms and notifications on mobile numbers registered with the I-T department. All taxpayers who wish to receive such text message alerts have asked to register mobile numbers in the   module which was unveiled by the finance minister.
 
 In the past few years, the tax department has undertaken various measures to reduce the interface between the taxpayer and the tax department and reduce harassment.
 
 “It has become far more convenient. Secondly, it also makes compliance far more easy. It also helps us in improving the image of the department. For the reason that one of the not so acceptable alibis given by those who don’t comply is we don’t comply because the harassment that compliance involves. Not that this reason has much reason in it, but today this reason gets eliminated more the interface is reduced,” he said.
 
 FM said an external audit should be undertaken to assess the impact of technology in reducing the interface and other segments where such an exercise can be undertaken.
 
 
