PUNE: The   has set the ball rolling for filling up vacant posts of presidents and non-judicial members at district consumer courts across the state.

 While the process is likely to take three months time, the same is expected to provide some relief to various district consumer courts grappling with issues like inadequate strength of presiding members, infrastructure, staff and space. 
 
 On July 29, the state commission’s registrar for administration S D   released notices inviting applications for as many as 11 posts of district consumer   presidents, of which, four candidates will be nominated from the lawyers’ category. Apart from this, 24 non-judicial members will be appointed, including 14 women members.
 
 The applications are to be submitted through online mode only. The link for the same will be available from July 31 on the website https://apply.registernow.in/MCF/2017. The last date of online submission with fees is August 28, 2017. Sitting or retired district judges applying for the president’s post are exempt from the written exam and are required to appear for interviews only, the notice stated.
 
 Shortlisted candidates from the lawyers’ category will have to appear for the written examination. 
 
 The entire appointment process will be conducted as per the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986; Maharashtra Consumer Protection Rules 2000 and the Recruitment Rules, 2011 published in the state government gazette.
 
 In addition to this, a waiting list of two candidates each from the sitting or retired district judges and lawyers categories will be announced for the president post. Similarly, a waiting list of four candidates will be declared for the non-judicial posts. These lists will remain effective for a period of one year.
 
 A senior official at Pune’s district consumer court said, “The notices come at an opportune time considering that there are vacancies at several district forums. Also, some vacancies are expected to be generated over the next year. For instance, the post of Pune consumer court president will become vacant in January 2018 and that of Pune’s additional district consumer court will be up for grabs in July 2018.”
 
